GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

GOODWIN v. FOX
APPEAL FROM ,THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE Ul,±TED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted March 14, 1887. -Decided

March 21, 1887.

The entry, on the stipulation of the parties, in a suit in equity, in which an
appeal has been allowed but the record is incomplete, of an order extending the time for filing the appeal bond and the certificate of evidence, is
equivalent to an order as of that date renewing the allowance of appeal
in open court in the presence of both, parties, and the appeal is returnable at this court as if allowed at the date of the entry of the order; but if
the appeal bond in such case is not filed until after the term in which
the appeal was allowed by the court, citation or its equivalent is necessary to notify the appellee that the appeal allowed in term time has not
been abandoned by failure to furnish the security, and the endorsement
by counsel for appellees of his approval of the appeal bondis the equiv-

alent of such notice.

THIS was a motion to dismiss.
opinion of the court.

The case is stated in the

.fr. IF. C. Goudy for the niotion.
. .Mr. Cltakes H. Wood and -Mr.John IV. Jewett opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

deliVered the. opinion of the court.

The facts on which this motion rests are these:
On the 17th of February, 1877, Kate W. Fox filed a bill in
equity against I. Willard Fox and Eleanor 11ox to enforce a lien
on certain property held by her through adeed from them,
absolute on its face as securityr-a debt. Pending the suit she
was married to Charles S. Goodwin, and Sarah E. R. Smith,
wife of Charles M. Smith;"in some way acquired title ti a part
of the mortgaged property. To the original bill some amendments were made, and answers were filed. On the 8tli of
December, 1. Willard Fox and Eleanor Fox filed a cross-bill
against Kate W. GoodwiN, Charles S. Goodwin, Sarah E. R.
Smith, and Charles M. Smith. To this cross-bill answers were

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

filed and on the issues made in the suit there was a final hearing, which resulted in a decree July 29, 1884, fixing the amount
of debt due and allowing a redemption -on terms specified in
the decree.
The record then shows that on the 6th of August, 1884, the
"complainant" came into court and prayed an appeal, which
was "allowed on her filing a bond in -the penal sum of one
thousand dollarswithin sixty days from this date, with surety
to be approved by the court," and the time for filing certificate of evidence was extended to October 1.
On the 29th of August, I. Willard Fox died testate, leaving
Eleanor Fox, his widow, and Isaac B. Fox, Flora F. Clark,
Truman G. Fox, Emily F. Beckley, Eleanor J. Fox, and .Gertrude R. Fox, his heirs-at-law, 411 of whom were legatees and
devisees under his will.
On the 29th of September an amendment of some kind
was made to the decree, and on the 6th of October an order
was entered in accordance with a stipulation that day filed,
extending for twenty days the time for filing a certificate
of evidence and a bond. On the 25th of October the court
ordered an extension of eight dhys for filing bond, and on the
1st of November, 1884, upon a stipulation that day filed, a
further extension of twenty-five days for the bond and certificate was granted. Upon the 25th of November, under a like'
stipulation, a further extension was granted until January 1,
1885, and on the 26th of December, 1884, until thirty days
after January 1., This last order was also made upon stipulation.
On the 1-2th of January, 1885, the death of I. Willard Fox
was suggested on the record, and his heirs made parties in his
stead. The defendants were thereupon required to convey
the property in accordance with the decree. On the 26th of
January, the master reported the execution of the deeds, and
they were confirmed. On the .31st of Janua;'y, the time for
filing certificate of evidence and bond was extended until
March 1; afterwards, February 28, by stipulation, until March
20; then, March-19, also, by stipulation, for thirty days; and
finally, by stipplation, the time for filing the certificate of

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence was extended until May 1. On the 1st of May, the
certificate of evidence was signed and filed. On the 20th of
June, 1885, an appeal bond in the penal sum of .$1000, executed by Kate W. Goodwin, Charles S. Goodwin, SarahE. R.
Smith, and Charles M. Smith, with J. Bradner Smith as
surety, to Eleanor Fox and the above-named. heirs and representatives of I. Willard Fox, was duly approved by the
District Judge, and filed with the clerk. The bond, when it
was approved, had on it this endorsement: "This bond, as to
form and surety, is satisfactory. W. C. Goudy." Mr. Goudy
was the counsel of the appellees.
The appeal was docketed in this court, October 20, 1885, but
no citation was ever signed or issued. The times for holding
the terms of the Circuit Court for the Northern District of.
Illinois are fixed by law on the first Monday of July and the
third Monday of December, and there are adjourned terms
held on the first Monday of October and the first Monday of
March in each year.
The grounds of the motion to dismiss are, 1, that no citation
has ever becn issued or served; and, 2, that the appeal was not
docketed here before the end of October Term, 1884.
In our opinion, the entries on the stipulation of the parties
of the various orders extending the time for filing the appeal
bond and certificate of evidence, were equivalent to an order
at the date of each respectively, renewing the allowance of the
appeal in open court in the presence of both parties. They
were evidently made to keep alive the original allowance, but
to give it effect as of the new date, and this because the record
in its then condition was incomplete and not ready for filing
in this court. Under these circumstances, the docketing of the
cause here at October Term, 1885, was in time. The appeal
was not actually taken until the entry of the last extension of
time for filing a bond and certificate of. eidence. This was
March 19, 1885, too late to make it returnable at October
Term, 1884.
Had the appeal bond been taken and approved by the court
at the same term no citation would have been necessary, be-'
cause the allowance of the appeal was, under the operation of

778

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Counsel for Parties.

the stipulation, the same in its effect for the purpose of a citation as the allowance of an appeal in open court during the
term at which the decree was rendered. But as the bond was
not filed until after the term, a citation or something equivalent was necessary, as matter of procedure, to give the appellees notice that the appeal which had been allowed in term
time had not been abandoned by the failure to furnish the
security before the adjournment. -Dodgev. K,-nowles, 114 U. S.
430; -ewit v. .. lbeirt, 116 U. S. 143. In the present case the
endorsement by the counsel for the appellees of his approval
of the -bondwas the equivalent of such a notice, and there was
no necessity for a citation in form..
The Tnotion is denied.

LEATIEER MANUFACTURERS'

BANhTK v. COOPER.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted March 7,1887.-Decided March 21, 1887.

Since the act of July 12, i882, c. 290, took'effect, a suit by or against National
Banks cannot be removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the
United States, unless a similar suit by or against a state bank in like situation with the National Bank could be so removed.
A case does not arise under the laws of the United States simply because
this'court has decided in another suit the questions of law which are
involved.
A case is not removable because a colorable assignment has been made to give
a state court exclusive jurisdiction.
Provident Savings Society v. Ford,
114 U. S. 635, and Oakley v. Goodnow, 118 U. S. 43, on this point affirmed.

writ of error was sued out to review an order of the
Circuit Court remanding the cause to the state court from which
it had been removed.
THIS

.Xr. Gharles X. Da Costa and M'. _Hoel B. Sanborn for
plaintiff in error.
M'. John . Bowers for defendant in error.

