KING BRIDGE CO. "v. OTOE COUNTY. "
Statement of Facts.

KING BRIDGE COMPANY v. OTOE COUNTY.
ERo

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEBRASKA.
Submitted January 7, 1887.-Decided January31, 1887.

An order drawn upon a county treasurer by county officials in favor of A
or order unindorsed, and a like order in favor of A, both assigned by A
to B for a valuable consideration, constitute no cause of action in B's
favor on which B can maintain an action in a Circuit Court of the United
States on the grou id of citizenship, if A could not maintain the action
there on the same ground; and if, in such action in B's favor A's necessary qualification of citizenship does not affirmatively appear in the
record in this court, the writ of error will be dismissed whether the question of jurisdiction be made or not, and plaintiff in error adjudged to
pay costs in this court

Tis action was brought, November 10, 1885, by the King
Iron Bridge and Manufacturing Company, a corporation of
Ohio, against Otoe County, in the State of Nebraska, to re(over the amount of two cointy warrants or orders, each
signed by the chairman of !he county commissioners of the
county and countersigned by the county clerk. One was dated
October 9, 1878, and directed the "Treasurer of Otoe County
to pay to Z. King, or order, sixteen hundred and five dollars,
and charge to account of special bridge fund," and the other,
dated January 9, 1879, directed the "Treasurer of Otoe County
to pay to Z. King, sixteen hundred and five dollars, and charge
to account of special bridge fund." The first one being presented for payment on the 23d of October, 1878, was indorsed
by the treasurer, "Presented and not paid, for want of funds."
The other was presented on the 15th of January, 1879, and
received a like indorsement. The petition stated, in respect
of each warrant, that it had been for a valuable consideration
"sold, transferred and delivered" by Z. King to the plaintiff,
who sues as the holder and owner thereof.
Judgment was asked for $3210, with ten per cent. interest
on $1605 thereof from October 23, 1878, and for $1606 with
like interest from January 15, 1879.
vor. cxx-

5

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of tle Court.

The defence was the limitation of five years presctibed by
the local ,lawfor an action "upon a specialty, or any agreement, coitract, or promise in writing or foreign judgment."
.The court below overruled a demurrer to the answer and dismissed the action.
-Y. -. S. Harwood and Mr:. John )T.Aes for plaintiff in,
error.
.A'.

Tohn C, WVatson for defendant in error.

M .JusTIcE IHAmIu.ha, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was argued upon the question 6f limitation. But
we have no occasion to consider that question; for it does not
appear that the Circuit Court had jurisiction of the action.
Unless the contrary appears affirmatively from the record, the
presumption, upon writ of error or appeal, is that the court
below was without jurisdiction. Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S.
64-6; Grace v. American Central Ins. Co., 109 U. S.278, 283;
Bdrs v. Prestoit,111 U. S.252; Conti ental life I4. Co. v.
]illoads, 119 U. S.237. That the point as to jurisdiction -Twas.
not made here by either party is immaterial,' because, as said
in .anqfeld, &c., ]i'ailway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382,
"the rule, springing from the nature and limits of the judicial
power of the United States, is inflexible and without exception, which requires this court, of its own imotion, to deny its'
ow'n jurisdiction, and, in the exercise of its appellate power,
that of all other courts of the United States, in all cases where
such .jurisdiction does not affirmatively appear, in the record
on which, in the exercise of that power, it is called to act. On
every writ of error or appeal, the first and fundamental question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court, and'then of the
See also Hancock v.
court from which the record comes'
Holbrook, 112 U. S.229, 231.
The act of March 3, 1875, ยง 1, excludes from the cognizance
of a circuit or district -court of the United States "any suit
founded on contract in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Syllabus.

have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon if no
assignment had been made, ecept in cases of promissory notes
negotiable by. the law merchant, and bills of exchange." One
of the warrants is payable to Z. King, and the other to Z. King,
or order. The latter is not indorsed by him in blank or to
the order of the plaintiff. Plainly, therefore, upon any view
of the statute, the plaintiff, as the holder or owner of the warrants, could not maintain a suit in the court below, unless
King could have sued in that court, had he not sold the warrants. But it does not appear that King could have maintained.the suit. There is no averment as to his citizenship, nor
does his citizenship otherwise-appear from the record. We
must, therefore, presume, on this writ of error, that th6 Circuit Court was without jurisdiction.
It will be for the court below to determine whether an
amendment of the pleadings upon the point of jurisdiction
will be proper.
The plainfiff in error must pay the costs in this court. Pe2ve
V. Fordyce, .119 U. S. 469 ; Everhart v. ffuntsville College,
ante, 223.
Reverded.

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
PACIFIC IRAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF 6LAfts.
Submitted January 10, 1887. -Decided

January 31, 1887.

Thle United States are not responsible for the injury or destruction of
private property caused by theirimili f ry operations during the late civil
war; nor are private parties chargeable for works cousti ucted on their
property by the United States to facilitate such operations.
Accordingly, where bridge, Pn the line of a railroad were destroyed during
the civil war by either of the contending forces, their subsequent rebuilding by the United States as a measure of military necessity, withont the
request of, or any contract with, the owner of the. railroad, imposes no
liability upon such owner.

