CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON.
Syllabus.

See also Weard v. iforrison, 25 Vt. 593, 599, and Loomig v.
Loomis, 26 Vt. 198.
For these reasons we are of opinion that at the time of the
presentation of the check to the bank, the bank held no funds
subject to its payment, whether we consider the -delivery of it
by 0. W. Israel & Co. to Schuler as intended to create an
equitable assignment or not. An earnest effort ismade in the
argument of counsel in this court to impeach the general
assignment as being void under the laws of Texas, where it
was made, and also in the state of IMissouri, whero this fund
was. As there is nothing in the statute of Xissouri which
would make this assignment absolutely void, and there is
nothing brought to our attention to prove that it was void by
the laws of Texas, and as the assignment, though mentioned
in the original bill of complainant, is not assailed, nor any
ground set forth to show its invalidity, we do not think there
is any reason why it should not be held in this proceeding to
be a valid assignment. As this assignmpnt had the effect
when the bank was notified of it to transfer to the assignee all
right to any funds in its hands which Israel could assert, we
need not consider the other questions connected with the case.
The result of these views is, that
The decree against the bank must be reversed and the case
,remanded,with insteuctions to dLsmiss the bill.

CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

E

DISTRICT OF XENTUCKY.
Submitted January 7,1887.-

Decided March 7, 1887.

When the title of a statute of a state clearly and distinctly expresses the
whole object of the legislature in the enactment, and there is nothing in
the body of the act which is not germane to what is there expressed, the
act sufficiently complies with a requirement in the constitution of the
State that no law "shall relate to more than one subject, axd that
shall be expressed in the title;" although some provisions in the act

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
respecting details in the execution of the purpose of the legislature may
not be expressed in the title.
The act of the legislature of Kentucky of January 30, 1878, respecting the
compr(Amise and settlement of the county of Carter with its creditors is
not in conflict with the provision in the constitution of the State that
"no law enacted by the General Assembly shall relate to more than one
subject, and that shall be expressed in the title."
Carter County in Kentucky under legislative authority subscribed to the
capital stock of a railroad company, and issued its negotiable coupon
bonds in payment of the subscription. Subsequently Boyd and Elliott
counties were created, in each of which were included townships which
formed part of Carter County when the subscription was made and the
bonds issued, and in each case legislative provision was made for the
continuation of the liability of the persons and property set off to
the new counties on the subscription. Default being made in the payment of interest, an act was passed in 1878 authorizing the County Court
of CarterCounty to compromise and settle with the holders of the bonds
on behalf of Carter County, and on behalf of the parts of the other
counties taken from Carter County, and a compromise was made under
which new bonds of Carter County and of those parts of each of the other
counties taken from Carter County were issued. Default being made in
the payment of interest due on these latter bonds, a holder of the coupons brought suit against Carter County to recover on them. Held: (1)
That the legislature had authority under the constitution of Kentucky
to authorize the County Court of Carter County to bind those parts of
the counties of Boyd and Elliott taken from Carter County; (2) that
under the act of 1878 the County Court of Carter County was authorized
to contract for the issue of negotiable bonds of the county and of the
parts of the county in order to retire the old negotiable bonds of the
county; (3) that in the suit to recover upon the coupons of the new
bonds, it was not necessary to make the parts of Boyd and Elliott counties, which had been parts of Carter County, parties to the suit.

Tins was a suit brought against the county of Carter to recover the amount due on certain bonds and interest coupons,
issued under the following circumstances: By an act of the
General Assembly of Kentucky "to incorporate the Lexington
and Big Sandy Railroad Company," approved January 9,
1852, and an.act amendatory thereof, approved March 1 1854
the county of Carter was authorized to subscribe $75,tOO to
the stock of the company, and to issue its bonds to raise the
money to pay therefor. Under this authority the subscription
was made" and seventy-five bonds of $1000 each issued by the
county. Tiiese bonds were in the usual form of negotiable

CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON.
Statement of Facts.

coupon bonds, payable to the order of the railroad company
thirty years from date, with interest at the rate of six per
cent. per annum, semiannualy at the Bank of America, New
York. The railroad company indorsed them in blank, and all
but one afterwards came into the hands of Joseph C. Butler
and L. Worthington, citizens of Ohio, as purchasers for value
before maturity.
In 1859, after this subscription was made, and while the
bonds issued on that account were outstanding, the county of
Boyd was created by the General Assembly of Kentucky,
which included within its boundaries a part of the original
county of Carter. In 1861 the county of Elliott was created,
and this took in another part of Carter, but in each of the acts
creating the new counties it was provided:
"That nothing in this act shall be construed so as to release
the citizens and property now subject, or which may hereafter become subject, to taxation within the boundaries of Carter County, included in the first section of this act, from being
held and made liable for the bonds and interest, issued to the
Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad Company, as though this
act had never been passed."
Default having been made in the payment of interest on the
bonds, suits were brought by Butler against Carter County
for the recovery of the amount due on coupons attached to the
bonds he held. The suits resulted in judgments against the
county. Afterwards the following act, approved January 30,
1878, was passed by the General Assembly of Kentucky:
"As ACT authorizing the county of Carter, and those parts of
Boyd and Elliott taken from Carter County, to compromisc
and settle with the holders of the bonds and coupons of interest executed by Carter County in its subscription to the
capital stock of the Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad
Company, and to levy and collect a tax for that purpose.
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky:
"§ 1. That power and authority is hereby given to the
county of Carter, -and those parts of the counties of Boyd and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

Elliott taken from Carter County, to compromise and settle
with the holders of the b6nds and coupons of interest executed
by Carter County in its subscription to the capital stock of the
Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad Company. Said compromise and settlement shall be made by the Carter County
court, composed of the county judge and a majority of the
justices of the peace in commission of Carter County, for and
on behalf of the county of Carter, and those parts of the
counties of Boyd and Elliott taken from Capter County. Said
court may make said compromise through a commission appointed for that purpose; but before the same shall become
binding on the county of Carter it shall be approved by the
Carter County court, constituted as county levy -courts are required by law to be constituted. Said court may execute to
the holders of said bonds and coupons of interest, severally,
the obligations of the county of Carter and those parts of the
counties of Boyd and Elliott taken from Carter County in
their formation, which shall be signed by the county judge of
Carter County, and attested by the clerk of said court. Said
obligations shall contain such stipulations as to interest as may
be agreed -upon by the court and holders of said bonds: and
coupons of interest, or either of them, but not at a greater
rate than six per cent- per annum, payable semiannually.
Said obligations shall be due and payable at such times, and
be for such amounts, as may be agreed for by the court and
holder or holders of said bonds and coupons."
The next three sections of the act contain provisions for the
levy and collection ;f taxes, to pay the interest and principal
of the compromise bonds, upon persons and property within
the limits of Carter County, as it was when the debt Was originally created. The fifth and last section is as follows:
"§ 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage; but nothing in this-act shall be so construed
as to affect or make more valid the bonds and coupons of
interest given by Carter County in its subscription to the capital stock of the Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad Company
than they were before the passage of this act."
Under the authority of this statute a compromise was made

CARTER COJNTY v. SINTON.
Opinion of the Court.

with the holders of the. original boiids, by Which the couilty
court of Carter County issued 119.new bonds of the county of

Carter and those parts of the counties of Elliott and Boyd
taken from Carter County, each for the sum of one thousand
dollars, payable to Henry Peachey and Richard 0. Butler,.
executors of Joseph C. Butler, or bearer, with semiannual
interest warrants at the rate of six per cent. per annum attached.
The principal of the bonds was made payable at different dates.
David Sinton, the defeildant in error, purchased nine of
these bonds for value before maturity, and five hundred and
forty of the coupons, and this suit was brought to recover the
amount due thereon. Originally the suit included other bonds
and coupons, but, as it was discoxitinued so far as they were
concerned before judgment, no questions arise in this court as
to them.
Toa petition setting forth the foregoing" facts the county
demurred: 1, because the petition did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action; and, 2; because the petition
shows a defect of parties, plaintiff and defendant. This
demurrer was overruled. Sinton, v. County of Carter,23 Fed.
Rep. 535. The defendant then filed an answer, some paragraphs of which were stricken out on- motion, and others
demurred to, and the demurrer sustained. As no point was
made on this branch of the case, a further statement of it is
not necessary.
The court gave judgment against the county for $29,121.54,
and to reverse that judgment this writ of error was brought.
-Mr. W. Iindsay and .A&. A..Dzvall for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George Hoadly, 2&.. Edgar Xf. Johnson, Xr. Edward
Colston, .Ar. George Hoadly, J., and .Mr. James O'Hara,for
defendant in error.
Mm. CHri.F JusTIcE WAiTrE, after stating the facts reported
above, delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal points presented by the argument of the plaintiff arise on the demurrer to bhe petition, and they may be
stated thus:

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

1. The act of January.30, 1878, is void by the constitution
of Kentucky, because the subject to which it relates is not
clearly expressed in its title.
2. The act is also unconstitutional and void because it vests
in the county court of Carter County the power to bind the
parts of Elliott and Boyd counties which had been set off
from Carter.
3. The act gave no authority to the county court of Carter
County to issue negotiable securities which pass by delivery
and in the hands of innocent holders are free from defences
which would be good as betwyeen the original parties.
4. There is a defect of parties defendant, because Carter
County is sued alone without joining "those parts of Boyd
and Elliott counties taken from Carter."
1. As to the title of the act.
The provision of the constitution of Kentucky relied on is
Art. II,. § 37, as follows:
" No law enacted by the. General Assembly shall relate to
more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the
iitle."
Undoubtedly the design of this provision was, as is said in
Pennington v. Woo folk, 79 Ky. 20, "to prevent the use of
deceptive titles as a cover for vicious legislation, by enabling
members of the General Assembly to form such opinion of the
nature of a bill by merely hearing it read by its title;" but as
early as 1859 the Court of Appeals said in Phillipsv. Covington
& Cincinnati Bridge Comrvany, 2 Met. (Ky.) 219, 221: "This
prohibition should receive a reasonable and not a technical
construction; and looking to the evil intended to be remedied,
it should be applied to such acts of the legislature alone as are
obviously within its spirit and meaning. Ione of the provisions of a statute should be regarded as unconstitutional where
they all relate directly or indirectly to the same subject, have
a natural connection, and are not foreign to the subject
its title." This is in accord with the decisions of
expressed in.
this court in -Afontclairv. Rarnsdell, 107 U. S. 147, where we
followed the rulings of the Supreme Court of- New Jersey
upon a similar provision in the constitution of that state; in

CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON7.
Opinion of the Court.

Jonesboro City v. Cairo & St. Louis Railroad,110 U. S. 192,
and fwahomet v. Quakefibush, 117'U. S. 509, where the constitution of -linois and the decisions of the Supreme Court of
that state were considered; and in Otoe County v. Balditin,
111 U. S. 1, which had reference to theconstitution of Nebraska
and the settled rule of decision in that state; and inAshley
School District v. Hall, 113 U. S. 135, which arose in Iowa.
It is enough if the law has but one general object, and that
object is fairly expressed in its title. Cooley on Const. Lim.,
1st ed. 144, § 2; 4th"ed. 175.
Here the title 'is "An act authorizing the county of Carter,
and those parts of the counties of Boyd and Elliott taken from
Cdrter County, to compromise and settle with the holders of
the bonds and coupons of interest executed by Carter County
in its subscription to the capital stock of the Lexington and
Big Sandy tailroad Company, and to levy and collect a tax
for that purpose." This clearly and distinctly expresses the
whole object of the legislation, and 'there is nothing in the
body of the act itself which is not in every way germane to
what is there expressed. No one interested in' the subject
matter of the law could be put off his guard by hearing the
bill read by its title. True, it does not state that the county
court of Carter County is to act as the representative of the
parts of Boyd and Elliott counties, as well as the county of
Carter, in making the, compromise, or that bonds are to be issued for the purpose of carrying it out, but all this is natter
of detail, suitable to the single purpose the legislature had in
view, namely, a settlement and compromise with the holders
of bonds issued by Carter County before its division, and for
which the present Carter County and those parts of Boyd and
Elliott which were taken from the old county were liable. It
is difficult to see how the subject of the legislation could be
stated more clearly without making the title of the act "a detailed statement, or an index or abstract of its contents"
which all agree is not necessary. .Iontclair v. 1?armdl, 10
U. S.155.
2. The authority of the county court of Carter County to
bind "those parts of the counties of Boyd and Elliott taken
from Carter County."

524

OCTOBER TERM,

1686.

Opinion of the Court.

If we understand correctly the position of the county as to
this ranch of the case, it is that the legislature had no power
to authorize the county court of Carter County to act .for these
parts of counties in compromising the old debt for which they
were held, because they were no longer parts of that county,
and no opportunity was given them to participate in the arrangement. These parts of counties have no separate organization of their own, corporate or otherwise. For all county
purposes, except this debt contracted by Carter County when
they were included within its boundaries, they are subject to
the government of the counties to which they now respectively
belong; but for the debt, they still remain a part of Carter.
Such is clearly the effect 6f that provision in the acts establishing the new counties which declared that the liability of citizens and property in the territory set off from Carter for taxation on account of the bonds and interest should continue the
same "as though this act had never been passed.' Had the
acts never been passed, no one would doubt the power of the
legislature to give the county court of Carter the authority to
make the settlement in the same way now provided for, eventhough these parts of the county did not have a justice of the
peace in commission to take part in the, deliberations. And
this because the county court -yas made the agent of the
county, and of those whose, property was subject to taxation,
for the transaction of this business. The legislature might
have appointed a commission for the same purpose, or it might
have selected any other suitable agency. In order to bind the
county or the tax-payers, it was not necessary that the taxpayers should vote on the subject, or that they should participate in an election of the' body that was to act in the matter.
All that was properly wvithin the discretion of the l6gislature.
No new debt was to be created, and no new subscription to
the stock of a railroad company was to be made. All that
had to be done was to compromise and settle an existing debt,
and to substitute new liabilities on terms to be agreed on for
an old one. Certainly it was within the power of the legislature to designate a suitable agency for that purpose, and what
could be more suitable than that department of the governing

CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON.

Opinion of the Court.

body of Carter County which was intrusted with the -management of its financial affairs? The cases of Allison. v. Louisville &cQ
Harrod's Clreek, and Wesport Railway Company, 9
Bush, 241, 253, and 10 Bush, 1; Scuffletowri Fence Co. v. .McAlister, 12 Bush, 312; Cypress Pond Draining Co. v. Hooper,
2 Afet. (Ky.) 350; and .Mercer County Court v. ]entu7o
River .ryavigatim Co., 8 Bush, 300, referred to in the argument of counsel, all relate to the creation of new liabilities,
not to the settlement of old ones.
3. The right to issue negotiable securities.
It is no doubt true that, without sufficient legislative authority, a municipality cannot issue -commercial paper, which
will be free from equitable defences in the hands of innocent
holders, Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 IL. S. 400 ; but, in,
our opinion, that authority was given here. The county of
Carter was authorized to borrow money and to issue its bonds
therefor to pay its subscription to the stock of the railroad
company. This, all agree, was sufficient authority to issue
bonds which were negotiable, and the averments in the declaration are that the bonds which were in fact issued had
that character. The debt to be compromised, therefore, under
the act of 1878i was a debt which had been created by the
issue of such bonds, and the authority was to execute to the
"holders of said bonds and coupons of interest" ".the obligations of said county of Carter and those parts of the counties
of Boyd and Elliott taken from Carter County in their formation, which shall be signed by the county judge of Carter
County and attested by the clerk of said court." They w-ere
to contain such stipulations as to interest, not exceeding six
per cent. per annum, and to be made dueand payable at such
times, as might be agreed on. As the new obligations were
to be executed to take up and cancel old negotiable securities
to a large amount, and were to be made payable at a future
time, there cannot be a doubt of the intention of the legislature to authorize the execution of "obligations" negotiable in
form and in law, if necessary to secure a settlement. The
authority to include in the obligations such stipulations as to
interest as might be agreed on clearly implies authority to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Cour.

attach interest coupons, and everything indicates a purpose to
invest the court with all the powers as to the form of the
obligations that were 'necessary to enable it to meet the requirements of the holders of the outstanding bonds and coupons in this particular.
4. The want of parties.
As we have already said, the parts of Boyd and Elliott
counties which are interested in this matter have no separate
organization of their own, and they remain for all the purposes of this debt a part of Carter County. A suit against
Carter County on the bonds is, therefore, a suit against them,
and a judgment against that county will be payable out of
taxes collected within the boundaries of the original county
under the provisions of the act of 1878.
A suggestion was made in the argument for the county of a
variance between the bond described in the declaration and
that which was actually issued, but this is a matter which we
cannot consider, as there is no copy of the bond as issued in
the record.
Another objection is made to the form of the declaration in
that it does not meet the requireimients of § 113 of the Civil
Code of Kentucky, and set out distinctly in separate paragraphs each one of the sixty separate causes of action sued on.
The objection cannot be taken by general demurrer, and
besides it does not seem tp have been made below.
The objection to the action of the court in respect to the
answer is so little relied on that it is only necessary to say we
see no error in what was done.
Y7he judgment 'is affrmed.

