OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

SCHLESINGER v. BEARD.
SCHLESINGER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR TE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 13, 18S7. -Decided

January 31, 1887.

Funchings and clippings of wrought iron boiler plates and of wrought
sheet iron, left after the completion of the process of the manufacture of
the boiler plates into boilers, and of the end of bridge-rods and beams of
wrought iron, cut off to bring the rods and beams to the required length
and to remove imperfections, wvere in "actual use," within the meaning
of the statute, in the manufacture of those respective things, and on
importation into the United States are subject to duty as "wrought scrap
iron."

Two actions at law: the first to recover back duties alleged
to have been illegally exacted; the second, to recover additional
duties after delivery of the gbods. Judgment against the importers, who sued out these writs of error. The case is stated
in: the opinion of the court.
_1. .. S. Dabney and Xr. William S. lall
error.

for plaintiff in

Xe. Solieitor General for defendant in error.

Mm. OmEr JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases involve substantially the same questions, and
may be considered together. One is a suit by Naylor & Co.;
importers, against Beard, the collector of customs in Boston,
to recover back duties alleged to have been illegally exacted,
and the other is a suit by the United States against the same
importers to recover additional duties assessed on the liquidationof an entry after the delivery of the goods upon payment
of estimated duties.

SCHLESINGE,

v. BEARD.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are these: In October, 1879; Naylor & Co., imported. into the port of Boston from England 170 tons of
wrought scrap iron, consisting "of the punchings aad clippings
of wrought iron boiler plates and wrought sheet iron, left after
the process of the manufacture of the boiler plates into boilers
was completed, and of the ends of bridge rods and beams
of wrought iron, cut off to bring the rods and beams to the
required length, and.to remove imperfections." -When the
entry was made at the custom house, the duties were estimated
upon the whole at the rate of eight dollars per ton. On the
payment'of this estimate the iron was delivered to the importers. Afterwards, 263,332 pounds were classified by tho customs officers as "new wrought scrap iron," and an additional
duty of $1611.92 charged thereon. For the recoveiy of this
amount .the suit in favor of the United States was brought.In November, 1879, the same parties imported from Eng-.
land 200 tons of wrought scrap iron, consisting entirely of
punchings and clippings,*such as are described above. Upon
this entry 280,995 pounds were classified as "old wrought
scrap iron," and charged with duty at the rate of eight dollars
per ton, and 138,400 pounds as "new wrought scrap iron," and
charged at the rate of one cent a pound. The importers paid
the duties assessed under-protest as to the, last item, and the
sued to recover back $889.70, the difference between the duties
at eight dollars per ton and the amount actually paid.
It was agreed that the punchings, clippings, and ends were
all waste iron and. incapable of being further used,'and that
they were only fit.for remanufacture. The only actual use to
which they bad been subjected was in the making of boilers
from the plates out of which they had been cut in the process
of manufacture, and in the building of bridges of which the
rods and beams that had been cut to adapt them to their
places formed a part. The importer claimed that all were
dutiable as "wrought scrap iron," under Schedule E of § 2504
of the Revised Statutes, p. 466, while- the collector claimed
that the part classified as "new wrought scrap iron" was
subject to a duty of one cent a pound, as "iron less finished
than iron in bars and more advanced than pig iron," b6cause
it had not been in "actua i use."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion 6 f the Court.

The court below gave judgment in each of the suits against
the importers, to reverse which these writs of error were
brought.
The provisions 6f the tariff act .on which the cases depend
are the following clauses in Schedule E of § 250-4 of the
Revised Statutes:
1. p. 464. "But all iron in slabs, blooms, loops, or other
forms, less finished .than iron in bars, and more advanced than
pig iron, except castings, shall be rated as iron in bars, and
pay a duty accordingly," i.e. one cent per pound.
2. p. 466. "Cast scrap iron of every description: six dollars per ton.
"Wrought scrap iron of every description: eight dollars per
ton. But nothing shall be deemed scrap iron except waste or
refuse iron that has been in actual use, and is fit only to be
remanufactured."
This particular form of provision as to scrap iron, both cast
and wrought, appeared for the first time in the act of July 14,
1870, c. 255, § 21, 16 Stat. 264, from which it was carried into
the Revised Statutes. The earlier statutes were as follows:
1. An act of July 14, 1'32, c. 227, § 2, clause 13, 4 Stat.
588: "That all scrap and old ir6n shall pay a duty of twelve
dollars and fify cents per ton; that .nothing shall be deemed
old iron that has not been in actual use and fit only to be
remanufactured; and all pieces of iron, except old, of more
than six inches in length, or of sufficient length to be made
into spikes and bolts, shall be rated as bar, bolt, rod, or hoop
iron, as the case may be, and pay duty accordingly."'
- 2. An act of August 30, 1842, c. 270, § 4, clause 3, 5 Stat.
552, which is substantially the game as the act of 1832, excepting only that the duty is reduced to ten dollars per ton.
3. An act of July 30, 1846, c. 74, § 11, sbhedule 6, 9 'Stat.
45, which places among: articles subject to a duty of thirty par
cent. ad valorem, "iron in bars, blooms, bolts, loops, pigs, rods,
slabs, or other form not otherwise provided for; castings of
iroh; old or scrap iron."
4. An act of Mlarch 2. 1861, c. 68, g 7, clause 3,12 Stat. 181:
"On old scrap iron, six dollars per ton:. P rovided, That

SCHLESINGER v. .BEARD.
Opiniou' of the Court.

nothing shall be deemed old iron that has not been in actual
use and fit only to be remraAufactured.".
5. An act of June 30, 1864, 6. 171, § 3, 13 Stat. 205, which
is in the exact language of the act of 1861, except that the
'duty is raised from six to eight dollars per ton.
It thus appears that in 1870 the form of the statutes on this
subject was materially changed, and that now the duty is laid
upon "scrap iron," without any reference to whether it is new
or old, anfd that all waste or refuse iron is scrap iron, if it has
been in actual use, and is only fit for remanufacture.
That the iron now under con'sideration was waste iron is,
conceded; and in our opinion it -had been "in actual use"
within the meaning of that term as employed in the statute.
At one time it formed part of boiler plates used in the manufacture of boilers, or of rods or beams used in building
bridges. In order to fit the plates, rods, or beams to the
places they were to occupy in the structures of which they
were to form a part, these pieces were cut off as useless, and
thrown away, or, in the language of the trade, "into the scrap
heap." They had become, by the use to which they were
put, "scrap iron," in the popular sense of that term, . and
nothing else. It is true the cuttings and clippings had never
themselves been used in the boilers or in the bridges, but they
had been used in making those structures, and thus had accomplished the purpose for whioh they were originally manu-'
factured. The plates, rods, and beams of which they were
once, parts had been used, and these were the waste resulting
from that use. They are not old in the sense of having been
worn by use, but they are scrap, and no longer capable of ally
use until remanufactured, because in their use they have been
rendered worthless for any purpose except to remanufacture.
In the popular sense, as manufactured articles, they have been
used up-made worthless by use; and this use has been
actual, not colorable only. The plates, reds, and beams were.
made to be used in a particular way. They have been so
used, and these cuttings and clippings are the waste of that
use. Consequently they are, in our opinion, "wrought scrap
iron," and dutiable as such.

268

OCTO3ER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment in each of the cases is reversed, ad the causes
remanded, with instructions to enter judgment upon the
agreedfacts infalvor of the importers in the suit against
the collector, and-against the United Staytes in the suit
againstthe importers.

BANK OF 3MAYSVILLE v. CLAYPOOL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITRD STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST'VIRGINIA.
Submitted January 20, 187. -Decided

January 31, 1887.

An application for the removal of a case from a state court, filed not only
after the trial had begun, but when it had progressed far enough to get a
verdict of the jury subject only to the decision of the coirt on questions
presented by a demurrer to the evidence, is clearly too late.

THE case is stated in tJ e opinion of the court.

Ar. B. 1. Smith for plaintiff in error.
3J r.J. 1oldsworth Gordon,for defendants in error.
Mit.

CmitF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error for the review of an order of a District Court, having Circuit Court jurisdiction,' renianding a
cause which had been removed from a state court under § 2 of
the act of March 3, 1875, c.137, IS Stat. 470, on the ground
of citizenship. The record shows a suit begun by the Bank of
Maysville in the Circuit .Court of Kenawha County, West Virginia, September 24, 1877, against .Claypool, as maker, and
Thayer; as indorser, of a promissory note. After a .demurrer,
which was overruled, a plea was filed November 26, on which
the parties went t6 trial the same day before a jury. After
the eyidence on the part of the plaintiff was all in, the defendant Thayer prayed judgment because on the facts proven no
case had been made out against him. The jury, under instruc-

