OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

This motion is denied. Although the suit was brought
against Marsh, Le Fever, and Scott, Marsh and Le Fever alone
answered the bill, and the decree was taken pro confesso
against Scott. Marsh and Le Fever alone appealed from the
Circuit Court of the county to the Supreme Court of the state,
and from the decree in that court they alone obtained the
allowance of a writ of error to this court. To such a writ
Scott cannot make himself a party against the objection of
Marsh and Le Fever, .so as to control the case in this court.
.Aotion denied.

EAST ST. LOUIS v. AMY.
ERROR TO TE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
.SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 7, 187.--Decided March 14, 1887.

The charter of East St. Louis in Illinois, which went into .effect March 26,
1869, authorized it to borrow money not exceeding $100,000, and limited
its power of special taxation to pay interest and provide a sinking fund
to three mills on the dollar of the assessment. The constitution of Illinois which took effect August 8, 1870, forbade municipal corporations in
'the state from incurring indebtedness to an amount exceeding live per
cent. on the value of the taxable property, including existing debt, and
required them to provide for the collection of an annual tax sufficient to
pay the interest on the debt as it falls due' and to pay and discharge the
principal within twenty years from the time of its contraction. The
city of East St. Louis was in debt when this constitution took effect, and
contracted other obligations after that time, but not in excess of the
amount named in the charter, and imposed a tax of three mills to meet
the debt as required by the charter, but failed for a series of years to
collect a tax as directed by the constitution. On an application for mandamus to compel the collection of the latter tax, Herd: that the constitution removed from the charter the limitation upon the power of the
council to tax for the payment of any bonded indebtedness which might
thereafter be incurred, and imposed upon the corporation the duty of
collecting sufficient to pay the interest as it fell due, and the principal
within twenty years, and that it was within the discretion of the court
whether to order a single levy to meet all past due obligations under this
head, or more than one levy if only one appeared to be oppressive.

EAST ST. LOUIS v. AMY.
Opiuion of the Court.
MA.NDAMUS to enforce the collection of a tax upon a municipal corporation. Judgment for the relator. The corporation
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.

.&fr.

C tarle8 Wait Toas for plaintiff inerror.

7fr. George A. Sanders for defendants in error.
MR.

CHEF JUSTICE WAIl

delivered'the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding b manlamus to require the mayor
and council.of the city of East St. Louis to levy a taxto pay
a judgment against the city for $36,495.28 rendered by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois, in favor of H. Amy & Co. on the 22d of August, 1885.
The facts are as follows:
By the charter of the city, which went into effect March
26, 1869, the city council was given authority to borrow
money on the credit of the city to an amount not exceeding
$100,000, and to issue bonds therefor, but the power of special
taxation to pay interest and provide a sinking fund was limited
to "three mills on the dollar, upon each annual assessment
made for general purposes."
The constitution of Illinois which took effect August 8, 1870,
contains this provision:
Art. IX, section 12. "No county, city, township, school district, or other municipal corporation shall be allowed to become
indebted in any manner or for any purpose, to an amount,
including existing indebtedness, in the aggregate exceeding
five per centum on the value of the taxable property therein,
to be ascertained by the last assessment for state and county
taxes, previous to the incurring of such indebtedness. Any
county, city, school district, or other municipal c 'oration,
incurring any indebtedness as aforesaid, shall before, or at the
time of doing so, provide for the collection of a direct annual
tax sufficient to 'pay the interest on such a debt as'it -falls due,
and also to pay and discharge the principal thereof within
twenty years from the time of contracting the same. - .

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

With this in force the city council of East St. Louis passed
three ordinances to borrow money and issue bonds therefor.
In each ordinance provision was made for the levy and collection of a special annual tax sufficient to meet the interest and
the principal as they respectively fell due. The judgment in
favor of Amy & Co.was for interest on these issues of bonds,
and the principal of one bond which had become due. The
controversy in this proceeding is as to the amount of tax the
council is authorized to levy for the payment of this judgment.
The three mills tax provided for in the charter has been regularly levied and collected, and the city claims this to be the
extent of its corporate power in that behalf. The court, however, was of opinion that, for all bonded indebtedness incurred
after the constitution of 1870 went into effect, it was the duty
of the city to levy and collect a direct annual tax sufficient to
pay both the interest and the principal as it fell due, and as
this had not been done, an order was made requiring the levy
and collection of "a special tax upon all the taxable property
of said city for the year 1886 sufficient in amount to pay" the
judgment in full. To reverse that order this writ of error was
brought.
The points presented for decision are, 1, whether the constitution of 1870 abrogated that part of the charter which limited
the power of the city to tax for the payment of its bonded
debt incurred after that constitution went into effect; and, 2,
if it did, whether the court could "compel a levy en masse to
pay the whole debt and interest, when the constitution only
required the council to provide for the collection of an annual
tax to pay the interest as it falls due, and the principal within
twenty years."
In our opinion the constitution remov6d from the charter
the limitation upon the power of the council to tax for the
payment of any bonded indebtedness which might thereafter
be-incurred, and gave authority to levy and collect enough to
meet the interest as it fell due,.and the principal within twenty
years. It gave no new power to incur a debt. That had been
given by the charter itself to the extent of $100,000. There
is here no question as to alimitation of this power by the

EAST ST. LOUIS v. AMY.
Opinion of the Court.

provision that the bonded debt shall not exceed in the aggregate five per centum on the value of the taxable property, for
no excess of issue has been suggested.
. The principle on which this decision rests is the
same as
that acted on in NYeaZ v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, where this
court held that the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States, of itself, and without any aetion by the
state, rendered inoperative a provision of the constitution of
Delaware which limited .the right of suffrage to the white race,
and this accorded with the opinion of the Supreme Court of
the state in the same case.
Undoubtedly a state constitution is in a sense a limitation
on the powers of the state government. It is the act of the
people establishing the fundamental law for their own gov-_
ernment as members of a political community known as a state
of the United States, and it fixes the powers of that government. But this does not imply that the people cannot in such
a fundamental law regulate as they please the powers of the
political subdivisions or municipal corporitions of the state.
Such a regulation, if made, would operate as a limitation on
the legislative power of the state government over the subject,
but it would form part of the fundamental law of the locality
to which it applied.
In this case thb constitution limited the power of the legislature of Illinois in respect to the grant of authority to municipal corporations to incur debts, but it declared in express
terms that, if a debt was incurred under such authority, the
corporation should provide for its payment by the levy and
collection of a direct annual tax sufficient for that purpose.
Under this provision of the constitution, no municipal corporation could incur a debt without legislative authority, express
or implied, but the grant of authority carried with -it the constitutional obligation to levy and collect a sufficient annual
tax to pay the interest as it matured and the principal within
twenty years. This provision for the tax was written by the
constitution into every law passed thereafter by the legislature
allowing a debt to be incurred; and, in our opinion, it took
the place in existing laws of all provisions for taxation to pay

604:

'OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

debts thereafter incurred under old authority'which wpre inconsistent with its requirements. It was made by the people
a part of the fundamental lw of the state that every debt
incurred thereafter by a municipal corporation, under the
authority of law, should carry with it the constitutional obligation of the municipality to levy and collect all the necessary
taxes required for its payment.
It only remains to consider the objection that a tax cannot
now be le'ied sufficient in amount to pay the entire judgment
at once. The judgment is for interest in arrear and a small
amount of principal. The law reqfiired a tax to be levied
fnnually sufficient to pay all interest as it accrued, and the
principal when due. This was neglected, and consequently
there is now a large accumulation of a debt which ought to
have been paid in instalments. Thus far the inhabitants have
been allowed to' escape taxation at the times it ought to have
been laid, and to which they were under constitutional obliga
tions to submit. The accumulation of the debt was caused by
their own neglect as members of the political community which
had incurred the obligation. Such, being the case, we see no
reason why it was not in the power of the court to order a
single levy to meet the entire judgment which was all for past
due obligations. Whether such a tax would be so oppressive
as to make it proper not to have it all collected at one time
was a questi6n resting in the sound discretion of the court in
ordering the collection. There is nothing here to show that
there ought to have been a division.
The constitutional obligation of 'the city was not fully met
by providing, when the debt was incurred, for the levy and
collection of the necessary tax. It required as well the actual
levy and collection when needed to pay the debt. This is an
obligation that can be enforced by mandamus after judgment
caused by a neglect to meet its requirements.
, We see nothing -in Teber v. Traubel, 95 Ill. 427, to the contrary of what is here decided. In that case there was no
question of power to levy a tax beyond the one per cent.
allowed by the charter to pay debts incurred under the authority of law after the constitution of 1870, and for the payment

GONZALES v. 'ROSS.
Syllabus.

of which by means of taxation provision had been made as
specially required by that constitution. The precise point
there determined was that the three mills tax provided by the
charter for the payment of the bonded debt, and the one mill
tax for the "Librar3; Fund," under the act of 1874, were parts
of the one per cent. allowed by the charter, and not additions
to it. Here, however, the tax is in accordance with the special provision made to pay a new debt lawfully incurred, and
to meet the requirements of the constitution in its regulation
of the conduct'of municipal corporations in such matters.
This is a tax which the corporation, under the operation of the
constitution, contracted with the bondholders to levy and collect to meet its liabilities on the bonds, and it is not necessarily limited to the three, mills or the one per cent. of the
charter.
Neither does the claim of the city find support in the case
of East St. Iouis v. Zebley, 110 U. S. 321. There the question
was whether the court could compel the city to set apart any
more than three out of the ten-mills charter tax to pay the
bonded debt, and we held that it could not. No point was
made as to the power of the city tolevy more than a ten-mills
tax, and it did not appear that the debt then in question was
incurred after the constitution of 1870.
Judgment alfflrmed.

GONZALES v. ROSS.
ERROR 'iO THE

MIRCIIT C.OURT OF THE UITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTiRIcT O.,TEXA.
Submitted November 2, 186.-Decided

March 14, 1887.

The Congress of Coahuila and Texas on the 28th Aprll, 1832, passed a law
respecting the grant of public lands. One Gonzales applied for a grant
under this law, and, on the 16th October, 1832, the governor made the
grant of the land in dispute under which the plaintiffs claim in the custonmary form for such grants. A commissioner was appointed to give
possessory title to the tract, and on the 18th April, 1834, lie delivered to
the grantee at Dolores formal possession of the tract,.and executed and

