126,,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

ury, who, upon such application, shall, by warrant on the
Treasury, cause the kame to -be paid to the applicant." 12
Stat., c. 45,;§ 36, p. 304.
In Udted States v. Taylor, 104 U. S. 216, this s6ction was
the subject of consideration by this court; and it was held that
it was not repealed by .th- act of June 7,1862'; that prior to
the application of the owner for the surplus, he has no claim
therefor which can b3 enforced by suit against the United
States; and that the statute of limitations begins to run against
it only from the date of his application. This decision covers
the present case. It is of no consequence to the government
what th'e claimant did with his right of redemption; it was
never .exercised by him or the purchaser from him, assuming
.that it could .havebeen enforced, and the time for its assertion
has long since elapsed. The United States did not guarantee
the title it gave upon the tax sale; and it does not appear that
the levy or the proceedings for the sale have ever been called
in question. If the sale was for any reason invalid, and the
United States could be held to indemnify the owner therefor,
the release by his quitclaim of all interest in the property
would secure the government against any claim on that
account.
' We see no valid ground for the refasal of the Secretary of
the Treasury to comply with the command of the law and pay
to the claimant the money which the government has always
held as trustee for him, and payable on his application.
Jvdgmen ctffrrned.

UNITED STATES v. SAUNDERS.
AFPPEAL FROM THE COURT OF C0

.

Submitted January 7, 1887. Decided January 23, 1887.

A clerk in the offlce of the President of the United States, who is also appointed to be the clerk of a committee of Congress, and who performs
the duties of both positions, is entitled to receive the comp'ensation
appropriated and allowed by law for each.

UNITED STATES v. SAUNDERS.
Opinion of the Court.
Sections 1763, 1764, and 1765 of the Revised Statutes have no application
to the case of two distinct offices, places, or employments, each with
its own duties and compensation, but both held by one person at the
same time.

Tins was a suit to recover salary withheld. The case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
1r. Attorney General and -Yr. Heber J. Ifay for appellant.

.Mr. Fa,

.

anning for appellee.

Yxn. JuSThicn MILLEP

delivered the opinion of the court.

Saunders, the appellee in this case, recovered- against the.
United States in the Court of Claims a judgment for $1627.00,

from which the United States appealed. The recovery was
for the salary of the claimant as clerk of the Committee on
Commerce of the House of Representatives, from the 14th
day of March, 1885, to the 7th day of January, 1886, at the
rate of. $2000.00 per annum.
Mfr. Saunders held this place from the 1st day of July,
1884, when he was appointed, up to the 7th day of January,
1886, when his successor was appointed. He was paid the
compensation up to the 14th of March, 13S85, and for the time
between that and the 7th of January, 188, the Comptroller
refused to pay him. The various appropriation acts, including
the one which would cover the period now in question, had all
made appropriations for compensation for the clerk of the
Committee on Commerce. The ground upon which payment
is resisted by the United States is, that the claimant was, on
the 14th day of March, 1885, appointed a clerk in the office
of the President of the United States, since which time h&
has continued to perform the duties.of that office and receive
its salary. The Comptroller, in his decision refusing to allow
the claim, places his objection upon § 1765 Re. Stat., and upon
the opinion of Attorney General Black, in regard to extra pay
and double compensation, delivered in 1857. 9 Opinions Att'y
Gen. 123. Section 1765 is found in immediate connection with

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

several other sections on the same subject, of which the two
immediately preceding may be considered to some extent in
pari materia. They are as follows:
"SEC. 1763. INo person who holds an office, the salaiy or
annual compensation attached to which amounts to the sum
of two thousand five hundred dollars, shall receive compensation for discharging the duties of any other office, unless expressly authorized by law.
"SEC. 176-. No allowance or compensation shall be made
to any officer or clerl-, by reason of the discharge of duties
which belong to any ither officer or clerk in the same or any
other Department; and no allowance or compensation shall
be made for any extra services whatever, which any officer or
clerk may be required to perform, unless expressly authorized
by law.
"SEC. 1765. :No officer in any branch of the jublic service,
6r any 6ther person whose salary, pay, or emolunents are
fixed by law or regulations, shall receive any additional pay,
extra allowance, or compensation, in any form whatever, for the
disbursement of public money, or for any other service or duty
whatever, unless the same is authorized by law, and the appr6priation therefor explicitly states that it is for such additional
pay, extra allowance, or compensation."
Some stress is laid in the letter of the Comptroller on the
proposition that the clerkship to the committee is not an office
in contemplation of the Constitution of the.United States and
the- law, and The decision in United Statr v. Germaine, "99
U. S. 508, is relied upon in support of that propositidn. We
do not think it important to decide in- this case whether such
a clerkship is an office within the meaning of these sections of
the law and the Constitution, because §§ 1764 and 1765 both
include in their prohibition officers, clerks, and other persons.
The proposition of the Comptroller that the clerk is not an
officer is made to meet his concession that a person who holds
two distinct compatible offices may lawfully receive-the salary
of each.
The general question here raised has been much discussed'in
the opinions of the Attorneys General, and in the decisions of

UNXITED STATES v. SAUNDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

this court.

This § 1765, mainly relied upon by the government, is taken from two statutes, the first passed March 3,
18 0), 5 Stat. 339, 349, and the second, August 23, 1842, 5 Stat.
508, 510. This opinion of Attorney General Black seems to be
in conflict with the principles laid down by his predecessors,
ad is materially modified, if not overruled, on the point
mainly in question here, by his opinion in the case of J. P.
Brown. on page 507 of the same volume. In Hiero's Case,
5 Opinions Attys..Gen. 765, Attorney General Crittenden held
that these two acts of 1839 and 1842 "were intended to fence
against arbitrary extra allowances in each particular case, but
do not apply to distinct employments, with salaries or compensation affixed to each by law or by regulation."
The case before us comes within the terms of this language,
which is further confirmed by the fact that he regarded tho
act of 1850 as prohibiting a person "from receiving the salary
of an office which he does not hold, and not against his receiving the salaries of two offices which he does legitimately hold ;"
and we do not see that there is any distinction between emoluments received for two distinct employments, whether offices
or not, the salaries of which are distinct, and the services rendered distinct, both appointments being held by the same person, as in this case. We are of opinion that, taking these
sections all together, the purpose of this legislation was to
prevent a person holding an office or appointment, for which
the law provides a definite compensation by way of salary or
otnerwise, which is intended to cover all the services which, as
such officer, he may be called upon to render, from receiving
extra compensation, additional allowances, or pay for other
services which may be required of him, either by act of Congress or by order of the head of his Department, or in any
other mode, added to or connected with the regular duties of
the place which he holds; but that .they have no application
to the case of two distinct offices, places, or employments, each
of which has its own duties and its own compensation, which
offices may both be held by one person at the same time. In
the latter case, he is in the eye of the law two officers, or holds
two places or appointments, the functions of which are sepaVOL. cxx-9

OCTOBER' TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

rate and distinct, and, according to all the decisions, he is in
such case entitled to recover the two compensations. In the
forimer casa, he performs the added duties unrder his appoint
,ment to a single place, and the statute has provided that he
shall receive no additional compensation for that class of duties
unless it is so provided by special legislation. The case of
United States v. Brindle, 110 U. S. 688, in which an Indian
agent received large additional compensation for services connected With the sale of lands belonging to the Indians of his
agency, which was affirmed in this court, was upon the ground
that these additional services were performed for the benefit of
the Indians, and the statute implied the payment of a reasonable compansation for such services. See also Converse v.
,$t&"s,
2f How. 463.
T]ie United
These views require the affirmance of the judgment of the
Court of Claims; and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.

KIRBY v. LAKE SHORE & MIICHIGAN SOUTHERN
RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UKITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued 'November 15, 16, 18S.-Decided January 10, 1897.
When relief is asked in equity in courts of the United States on the ground
of fraud, time will not run in favor of defendant until discovery of the
fraud, or until, with reasonable diligence, it might have been discovered;
and this rule is not affected in the State of New York by the provisions
of § 382 of the Code of that sthte as amended in 1877 in so far as they
may be construed to modify it.
A statute of a state which provides that "the iime which shall have elapsed
between the death of any person and the granting of letters testamentary
or of administration on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the
period of six months after the granting of such letters shall not be
deemed any part of the time limited by any law for the commencement
of actions by executors or administrators," does not give the party claiming the benefit of its proiisions both periods of six months therein mentioned, but only such time, not exceeding six months, as elapsed after

