-00TOBLM TERM3- 1-886.
Syllabus.

of what the injury is "caused by," but it looks only. to the
"means" by which it is effected. No one doubts that hangmg is a violent means of death. As it affects the body from

without, it is external, just as suffocation by drowning was
held to be, in the cases of [1-w, Reynolds and Wine ear,
above cited. And, according to the decisions as to suicide under policies of life insurance, before referred to, it cannot,
when done by an insane person, be held to be other than accidental.
The result is, that the judgment of the Circuit Court in
favor of the plaintiff was correct, and must be
Aflrmed.

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
EROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
Argued January 18,19,1887. -Decided March 7,1887.

Defendants in ejeetment having produced a regular chain of title under a
deed from a grandson ol the original owner of a lot in Rhode Island, including the land in controversv, which was executed in 1768 and recorded
soon afterwards ifi the land records ,of the town in which it was situated,
and having, shownthat the ancestors in title paid the taxes on said lot
for twenty years preceding 1805, and that afterward, up to the trial of the
action in 1882, a period of seventv-seven years, they or their ancestors in
title had uiinterruptedly paid the taxes on'the lot; and having shown an
entry in 1835 by their -ancestor upon the lot under a deed, for the purpose
of quarrying a ledge of rock running through it, and the quarrying of the
ledge with occasional intervals from 1846 to the commencement of this
action in 1874,- a period of twenty-eight years, the said entry being made
with clain of title to the whole lot. Held, in an action brought by the
heirs of the devisee of the original proprietor, under a will executed in
1749, and probated in 1756, none of whom had made any claim to the
-premises for'three quarters of a century after the death of the original
proprietor, under whose will they now assert'title, nor paid taxes on the
property, nor after that time ever taken possession of the premises or
paid taxes upon them, that the jury might presume a deed tO the grandson
from the origiiial proprietor, or from his devisee, to quiet the possession
of the defendants claiming under such grandson, and that in making
such presumption the jury were not to be restricted to consideration of.

-FLET-bHER -v.--FULLERS.

"535

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
what they fairly supposed actually occurred, but to what may have occurred, and seems requisite to quiet title in the posse'ssors. It is sufficient that, the evidence leads to the conclusion, that the deed might
have been executed, and that its execution would be a solution of difficulties arising from its non-execution.
Though a presumption df 6 deed-may-be rebutted by proof of facts inconsistent with its supposed existence, yet, where no such facts are shown,
and the things done and the things omitted, with regard to the property
in controversy, by the respective parties, for long periods of time after
the execution of the supposed conveyauce, can be explained satisfactorily only upon the hypothesis of its existence, the jury may be instructed
that it is their duty to presume such i conveyance, and thus quiet the
possession.
Though as a general rule, it is only where the possession has been actual,
open, and exclusive for the period prescribed by the statute of limita-"
tions to bar an action for the recovery of land, that the presumption of
a deed can be invoked; yet that presumption may properly be invoked
where a proprietary right has been exercised beyond such statutory
period, although the exclusive possession of the whole property, to
which the right is asserted, may have been occasionally inteirupted during such period if, in addition to the actual possession, there have been
other open acts of ownership.
The, assessment of taxes'on an entire parcel of real estate to the person in
possession under claim of title, and to his ancestors and privies in estate,
for over a hundred years, is powerful evidence of a claim of right to the
whole lot: and, taken in connection with the exclusive working of a
quarry on the estate for more than twenty years under claim of title
to the whole tract, by virtue of conveyances in which it was described,
may authorize a jury to infer continuous possession of the whole, notwithstanding a temporary and occasional intrusion by others upon a different part of the tract, which did not interfere with the work.

EJEOTrENT for a tract of land in Rhode Island. Verdict for
plaintiff, and judgment on the verdict. Defendaiits sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.

Xfr. William .. Greene and -Mr. James Tillinghast (.2Ir.
CharlesHartwas with them on the brief) for plaintiffs in error
cited: Lehigh Valley Railroad v. .AfoFarlan, 43 N. J. Law,
605; Hilary v. Taler, 12 Ves. 239, 252; Casey's .Lessee v.
Inloes, 1 Gill 430, 503 [8. C. 39 Am. Dec. 658]; Sumner v.
hild, 2 Conn. 607; Williams v. Donell, 2 Head, 695; Coolidge v. Learned, 8 Pick. 504; Durant v. Ritchie, 4 Mason,
45 ; Clarke v. Cross, 2 R. I. 440 ; BedXford v. Wade, 17 Yes.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

87 ; UnionSavings .Bank v. Taber, 13 R. I. 683 ; United States
v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141; KLfowry v. Providence, 10 R. I. 52;
'Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41; Sailor v. Hertzogg, 10 Penn. St.
296; Farrarv. Fessenden,.39 N. H. 268; Little v. Downing,
37 N. I. 355; Wfebb v. Richardson,42 Vt. 465, 474; Paine v.
Hutchins, 49 Vt. 314; St. Louis Public Schools v. Risley's
Heirs, 40 Missouri, 356, 370; .Davis v. Easley, 13 Ill. 192;
Etwell v., Hinckley, 138 Mass. 225; Glascock v. H7ughes, 55
Texas, 461 ; Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59, 105 ; Cheney v.
Vatkins, 1 Tarr. & Johns. 527 [S. C. 2 Am. Dec. 530];
Diraper v. Shoot, 25 Missouri, 197 [S. C. 69 Am. Dec. 462];
,Tingley v. Providence, 8 R. I. 493; Ac Clung V.Ross, 5 Wheat.
116; Campbell v. Point Street IronWVorks, 12 R. I. 452; Burdick v. Burdick, 15 R. I. 574.
Xl. Livingston Scott and -Mr. Elisha C. .Afowry (3Mr. Jmes
C. Collins was with them on the brief) for defendant in error
cited, to the points decided by the court: .Dwyer v. Dunbar,
5 Wall. 318; Burrell v. State, 18 Texas, 713-733; I ivi~re v.
XfcCormick, 14 La. Ann. 139 ;.Laber v. Cooper, 7 Wall. 565;
.Jackson v. Haviland, 13 Johns. 229; H7amet v. Dundaqs, 4
Penn. St. 178; Taylor's Devisees V'.
Burnside, I Gratt.'165,
211'; Jackson v. -Mfyers, 3 Johns. 383, 392, 393 [S. C. 3 Am.
Dec. 504]; Ewing v. Burnet, 1 McLean, 266; Sorber v. TFilling,
10 Watts, 141;, Hookenbury v. Snyder, 2 W. & S. 240; Cornelius v. Gibenon, 1 Dutcher, 1; Reed v. Field, 15 Vt. 672;
Little v. Xegquier, 2 GreenI. 176; Clorke v. Cross, 2 R. I. 440;
Hurst v. _cAgeil, 1 Wash. 0. C. 70 ; Ricard v.. Williams, 7
Wheat. 59, 108; Anonymous, 1 Salk. 246; Barr v. Gratz,1
Wheat. 913; Smith v. Burtis, 6 Johns. 197 [S. C. 5 Am. Dec.
218] ; Codman v. Winslow,. 10 Mass. 146;, Brimmer v. Proprietors of Long Wharf, 5 Pick. 131; Hehderson v. Griffln, 5
Pet. 15"1; Holtzapple v. Phillburn,4 Wash. C. 0.356; O'Hara
v; Richardson' 46 Penn. St. 385; Altemas v. Campbell, 9
Watfs, 28; [. C. 34 Am. Dec. 494]; Burrows v. Gallup, 32
Conn. 493; Peabody v. Hewitt, 52 Maine, 33 [S. C. 83 Am.
Dec.' 486]; kreans v. Welles, 12 Met. (Mass.) 356; Bricett
v. Spoford, 14 Gray, 514'; Rogers v. Benlow, 10 S. & B.
306; Robison v. Swett, 3 GreenI. 316.

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jus'UTion FiBLD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a'n action of ejectment to recover possession of
twenty-seven twenty-eighths undiyided parts of a tract of land,
containing about fourteen acres, situated in the town of
Lincoln, formerly Smithfield, in the state of Rhode Island.
The plaintiff, a citizen of Connecticut, sues the defendants,
citizens of Rhode Island, in his own right and as trustee for
others.
The declaration contains several counts, all of which except
two are withdrawn. In these the plaintiff alleges that on the
25th of October, 1814, he was "seized and possessed in his
demense as of fee in his own right and as trustee" of twentyseven twenty-eighths undivided parts of the tract of land
which is;described, and that the defendants on that day and
year, with force and arms, entered thereon and ejected him
therefrom, and have ever since withheld the possession, to his
damage of one thousand dollars. The two counts differ
merely in the description of some of the boundary lines of
the tract. The defendants pleaded the general issue and
twenty years'- possession under the statute 'of' possessions."
Upon. these pleas issues were joined and the case was tried,
the palties stipulating that the plea of the statute should be
held to apply to any period or periods of twenty years that
could be covered by any other like plea that might have been
filed, and that either party might offer any evidence, and rely
upon any matters that would be admissible 'under such plea
or pleas, and any proper replications or other proceedings
thereon. The case was tried three times, resulting the first
time in a verdict for the defendants, and at the other times in
a verdict for the plaintiff. The judgment on the last verdict
is brought before us for review by the defendants on a writ
"of error. Numerous exceptions were taken in the progress
of the trial to the rulings of the court in the admission and
rejection of evidence, and to the instructions given and refused to the jury. But the conclusions we have reached withi
respect to the instructions given and refused as to the presumption of a deed to the ancestors in- title of the defendants,
render it unnecessary to consider the others.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears from the evidence at th 9 trial that the land in
controversy was the westerly part of a tract of 331 acres,
belonging, in 1750, to one James n eed, and which, by early
conveyances, became divided into three parcels, one containing 221 acres, one 51 acres, and the third 6 acres, as shown
by a diagram submitted, by consent of parties, to the jury, of
which the following is i reduced copy:

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
Opinion-of the Court.

A turnpike, running through the tract northerly and southerly, was opened in 1816. The 24-acre parcel was con'veyed.
to Francis Richardson, of Attleboro, Massachusetts, by deed
dated April 1(0, 1750. The land in controversy is a portion of
this parcel lying west of the turnpike. The 5k-acre parcel was
conveyed to Ezekiel Fuller by deed dated November 17, 1750.
The 6-acre parcel was conveyed to Abigail Fuller, wife of
Ezekiel, and daughter of Francis Richardson, by deed dated
January 21, 1756.
The plaintiff claims to derive title under the will of Francis
Richardson dated May 26, 1749, and the codicil thereof dated
.August 10, 1750, which were admitted to probate in Massachusetts, January 19, 1756. A copy of the will and codicil,
and of the Massachusetts probate, was produced and given in
evidenqe, together with a certificate of their having been filed
and recorded in the probate office in Lihcoln on the 27th of
August, 1881.
It does not appear that there was any direct evidence that,
Francis Richardson was seized of the 294-acre parcel at the
time of his death. The presumption, in the absence of any
opposing circumstances, is undoubtedly that; being the owner
at the date of the codicil, August 10, 1750, he continued such
owner up to the the of his death, which occurred some years
afterwards. Whether-sufficient opposing circumstances to rebut
this presumption are found in the absence of all claim to the
land for three quarters of a century by the devisee or her
husband, or her heirs, and the continued claim of ownership
by the ancestors in title of the defendants during that period,
is a question to be hereafter considered.
It is stated in the record that there was evidence tending
to show that Abigail Fuller, the devisee, and her husband
entered into possession of the property devised under the will
and codicil, but what that evidence was does not appear. Abigail died prior to 1766, leaving her husband surviving her.
He left Smithfield sometime in 1761 "for parts unknown."
It appears also that in a deed executed by him on the 11th of
April, 1761, of the 20-acre lot designated on the diagram, he
recited that such lot was bounded on the north by "his former
land."

.540

540.OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
.Opinion of the Court

With ,the exception of the evidence tending to show that
thb'devisee and her 'husband e'ntered into possession of the'
property devised, and the reference by the husband in his deed
to the tract as his former land, there was nothing to show.that
any claim of right or title to the land had been made by them,
or by their heirs, for nearly. three quarters of a century, either
by the exercise of acts of ownership over it, such as its occupation or the use of its products, or by leasing or selling it, or by
the payment of taxes or in any other way. And for over forty
years after the lapse of the three quarters of a century, the
only claim of title made by the heirs of the devisee to any
portion of the 224-acre lot consisted in the 'fact that in 1835
they brought an action against certain persons With whom the
defendants were not in privity of title or ancestry, for the recovery of another portion of ttle 22-acre parcel, which action
was discontinued in 1898 on account of the poverty and pecuniary inability of the heirs to carry it 'on; and in the fact
that at varying intervals between 1826 and 1857 (not 18 8, as
stated in one part of the record) they had been in the habit,
under such'claim, of cutting wood thereon openly for family'
use, and the manufa6ture of baskets, in which business some
of them were engaged, and car'rying it' to their homes; and
that on three occasiohs, once in 1840, once in 1845, and. once
in 1852, some of them, in contemplation of taking legal proceedings to establish their title, had gone around and upon the
land and pointed out its boundaries.
When Ezekiel Fuller departed from Smithfield in 1761, he
left two children, Francis and Abigail, without means of support, and at a meeting of the town council in September following, proceedings were taken to provide for them. In a
resolution reciting that "Ezekiel is gone, we lmow not where ;"
that his children were then and likely to be chargeable to the
town, that little or nothing of Ezekiel's estate was to be found
to support them, but that it was assumed there was some estate belonging to him, a pbrson was appointed to make proper'
inquiry and search for it, "to know what -land there is belonging to the family of said Ezekiel and secure the same for' the
support of the children." It would seem that the person, thus

FLETCHER v. FULLER.

- 5-11

Opinion of the Court.

appointed, reported that there was a piece of land- a six-acre
parcel - which was possessed by Ezekiel in right of his wife,
for the town council, at a meeting iR March, 1776, after recit:
ing that there was nothing of said Fuller's estate left behind
to maintain his children but a small piece of land, and that no
provision for their support could be had without the favor and
authority of the General Assembly to sell and give a deed of
it, appointed one Edward Mowry to lay the matter before the
Assembly and request that it would pass an act to enable some
proper person to dispose of the parcel, and clothe him with
authority to give a deed thereof. Mowry presented a proper
petition to the Assembly, which granted the prayer, and empowered the town treasurer, with the consent and advice of
the town council, to sell the land and apply the money -received for the purpose stated, that is, the support of the children. A sale of the six-acre lot for thirty pounds was accordingly made by the town treasurer under the authority thus
conferred.
Abigail, the wife of Ezekiel, left five children surviving her,
all of whom died'before their father except Abigail, Jr., who
was one of the tfvo supported by the town. The father, who
disappeared from Smithfield in 1761, died in the poor-house in
Attleboro, Massachusetts, in 1800. Abigail, the daughter, was
born December 29, 1757, became of age December 29, 1778,
and was married to Benjamin Fuller December 1, 1779. He
died in 1832, and she died in 1835, intestate. The plaintiff is
the grandson of this Abigail, and the parties for whom he is
trustee are her -other descendants. They all derive whatever
title they have from her.
On the 24th of May, 1874, a century and eighteen years
after the probate of the will of Francis Richardson, all the heirs
of Abigail Fuller, except one, executed a power of attorney to
Theodore C. Fuller, also one of said heirs, authorizing him to
sell to Nathan Fuller, the plaintiff in this action, all their title
and interest in the tract conveyed by James Reed to Francis
Richardson by deed dated'April 10, 1750, and devised to Elizabeth Fuller, wife of Ezekiel, by his last will and testament
probated January 19, 1756, to hold the same upon trust to

-, OCTOBER

TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

prosqcute to final conclusion legal proceedings necessary to recover possession of the premises, to employ counsel for that
purpose, to conduct the proceedings, and to make such compromises of the grantors' claims as to him and his counsel
might seem best.
The same grantors, by their attdrney, on the same day, executed a deed of the same-tract of land to Kathan Fuller,
reciting a consideration of ten dollars, upon trusts similar to
those contained in the power of attorney. Both documents were
duly ackmowledged by the grantors. The delivery of the deed
was made by the attorney in this way.- He and the grantee
went upon the land with three other persons, and whilst upon
it he delivered the deed to the grantee. He also took up some
earth in his hands and passed it to the grantee. This he had
been instructed to do by hi-s counsel as the form of delivering
possession. The parties were about fifteen minutes on the
land. There was no evidence of any notice to or. knowledge
by the defendants of these acts, and they testified that they
had neither. This is the case of the plaintiff briefly stated.
The defendants trace their title to the land in question by
continuous claim of title from a deed of the 22&acre parcel
made by one Jeremiah Richardson, a grandson of the testator,
Francis Richardson, to Stephen Jencks, dated April 8, 1768,
containing full covenants of title and warranty, and recorded
in the records of Smithfield on July 10, following. Jeremiah
Richardson was the son of Francis Richardson, who was a son
of. the testator, and is named in the will as having died. Jeremiah had a brother, also called Francis Richardson, who died
prior to March, 1766. Stephen Jcncks, by deed dated August
12, 1796, containing full covenants of warranty, to secure several notes, amounting to $3000, mortgaged the land in controversy, with adjoining lands to which he had acquired title,
making in all 50 acres; of which the 20-acre lot,. designated on
the diagr m, was one parcel, which lie, had purchased in 1763
for £640, and the six-acre lot, also desigmated on the diagram,
was another parcel, which he had purchased in 1768 for
£45. He died in 1800, leaving a will, by which he devised
his real estate in Smithfield and- elsewhere to his children.

FLETCHER' v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

Stephen Jencks, Jr., his son, acquired the interests of the other'
heirs, and by deed dated May 18, 1804, conveyed the whole,
including by specific description the land in controversy, to
his brother, Jerahmael Jencks, who was the grandfather and
ancestor in title of the defendants. Other portions of the 22acre parcel were conveyed by ancestors in title of the defendants, by deeds to different parties, containing full covenants of
title and warranty, dated respectively April 12, 1841, December 3, 1845, and May 21, 1860, and they entered into possession of the -respective parcels, and enclosed and improved
them. In Miay, 1864, the father of the defendants, from whom
they derive their title, surveyed and plotted into town lcts the
remaining portion of that parcel, being the land in controversy. In the partition of the estate of the grandfather, Jerahmael Jencks, between his heirs-at-law, in 1S24, this laud had
been taken by him as part of his estate, and plotted as such in
the partition plot. He died in 1866.
The land was not enclosed on the line of the turnpike. In
1838 a fence was put up on the westerly side by an adjoining
owner. On the southerly side there was at one time a fence
running from the turnpike westerly to the other side of the
ledge hereafter mentioned, but it .disappeared in 1835. On
the northerly line there was only a brush fence until 1867,
when a purchaser of adjoining land erected one. The land has
never been put under cultivation. Prior to 1858 it was covered with wood; and every year from 1829 to 1857 the ancestors of thd defendants cut wood upon it for family use. In
1857 the father of the defendants cut and applied to his use all
the wood of value then remaining. The land had an extensive ledge of rock running across its centre from north to
south, which was opened by defendants' ancestors as early as
1835. In 1845 or 1846 large quantities of stone were quarried
and sold by them to railroad companies; and from that time
down to the trial, with longer or shorter intervals, never of
more than a year or two, the ledge was worked more or less
extensively by the defendants or their ancestors in title, or
their lessees and tenants, and the stone removed. There is no
evidence that any other person had ever worked the ledge or

OCTOBER TERMiS 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

taken stone off the land, or attempted to do so. The father
of the defendants put up a sign on the land, stating that all
persons were forbiddeAi from taking wood or stone from it.
In 1860 or 1861 his lessee built a barn and tool-shed on the
land near the ledge for his use in quarrying, these structures.
being in full view from Broad Street, formerly the turnpike.
He also dug a well, from which he obtained water for his business. The barn, with lofts for hay, was of sufficient capacity
"to accommodate, and did accommodate, six or eight horses,
or more." It remained on the land, with some additions, until some time in 1869, when it was removed by the lessee. The
land'was assessed for taxes to th6 ancestors in title of the defendants, and paid by them, for twenty years, between 1770
and 1805. The tax lists for the other years up to 1805 could
not be found. From 1805 to the time of the trial, a period of
seventy-seven years, the land was assessed to them, and the
taxes were paid by them. The statute Qf Rhode Island respecting the assessment of-taxes, in force between 1798 and
1825, required the assessors to assess' taxes on real estate to
persons who held and occupied it, and the one in force between 1825 and 1855 required them to assess the taxes to
those who held and occupied it or to the owners thereof, and
the-one in force after 1855, to the owners thereof. No taxes
-were ever assessed to the Fullers or paid by them. lNeither
plaintiff nor 'defendants, nor their ancestors, ever resided on
the premises, and the land was occupied and possessed by the
ancestors in title of the defendants only in the way inentioned.
Upon the case thus presented, and we have not .omitted,
we think, any material circumstance in the statement, the
defendants asked an instruction to the jury as to the presumption they might make of a lost grant to their ancestor
in title, which the court refused. Its charge was thus:
"Of course, gentlemen, if you find that you can presume a
grant, if you find from the testimony that fhlere was a lost
deed which passed from Abigail Fuller to Jeremiah Richardson, or to Francis Richardson, and the property was inherited
by Jeremiah, so that Jeremiah had a good title to convey to
Stephen Jencks, that makes the title of the defendants here

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

complete.

.

.

.

But, gentleimen, you are to look into the:

evidence upon this question of a grant, and if the 6vidence
in favor of the presumption is overcome by the evidence
against such a grant, then, of course, you will not presume
one. It is a question of testimony."
The defendants requested the court to instruct the jury
"that the presumption they were authorized to make of a
lost deed was not necessarily restricted to what may fairly
be supposed to have occurred, but rather to what may have
occurred and seems requisite to quiet title in the possessor."
This instruction the co-ifrt refused to give, or to modify its
charge in conformity with it. The defendants now contend
that the court thus erred, its charge being in effect that in
order to presume a lost deed- the jury must be satisfied that
such a. deed had in fact actually existed. Such seems to us to
be the purport of the charge, and therein there was error.
In such cases "presumptions," as said by Sir William Grant,
"do not always proceed on a belief that the thing presumed
has actually taken place. Grants are frequently presumed, as
Lord Mansfield says, Eldridge v. .nott, Cowp. 215, merely
for the purpose, and from a principle of quieting the pbssession. There is as much occasion for presuming conveyances
of legal estates; as otherwise titles must forever- remain
imperfect, and in many respects unavailable; when from
length of time it has become impossible to discover in whom
the legal estate (if outstanding) is actually vested." Hillaiy
v. Waller, 12 Ves. 239, 252.
The owners of prolerty, especially if it be valuable and
available, do not often allow it to remain in- the quiet and
unquestioned enjoyment of others. Such a course is not in
accordance with the ordinary conduct of men. When, therefore, possegsion and use 're 'long.. continuedi, they create a
presumption of lawful origin, that is, that they are founded
upon such instruments and proceedings as in law would pass
the right to the possession and use of the property. It may
be, in point of fact, that permission to occupy and use was
given orally, or upon a contract of sale, with promise of a
future conveyance, which parties have subsequently neglected
VOL. cxx-35

. OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

to obtain, or the 6onveyance executed may not have been
acknowledged, so as to be recorded, or may have been milaid
or lost. Many circumstances may prevent the execution of a
dbed of conveyance, to which the occupant of land is entitled,
or may lead to its loss after being executed. It is a matter
of almost daily experience that reconveyances of property,
transferred by the owners upon conditions or trusts, are often
delayed after the conditions are performed or the trusts discharged, simply because of the pressure of other engagements,
and a conviction that they can be readily obtained at any
time.
The death of parties may leave in the" hands of executors
or heirs papers constituting muniments of title, of the value
of which the latter may have no knowledge, and therefore
for the preservation and record of which may take no action;
and thus the documents may be deposited in places exposed
to decay and destruction. Should they be lost, witnesses of
their execution, or of contracts for their execution, may not
be readily found, or if found, time may have so impaired their
recollection of the transactions, that they can only be imperfectly recalled, and of course imperfectly stated. The law,
in tenderness to the infirmities of human nature, steps in and
by reasonable presumptions, that acts to protect one's rights,
which might, have been done, and in the ordinary course of
-things generally would be done, have been done in the particular case under consideration, affords the necessary protection against possible failure to obtain or to preserve the
proper muniments of title, and avoids the necessity of- relying
upon the fallible memory of witnesses, when time may have
dimmed their recollection of past transactions; and thus gives
peace and quiet to long and uninterrupted possessions.
The rule of presumption, in such cases, as has been well
said, is one of policy, as well as of convenience, and necessary
for the peace and security of society. "Where one uses an
easement whenever he sees fit, without asking leave and without objection," says the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, "it
is adverse and an interrupted adverse enjoyment for twentyone yeaxs.is a title which cannot afterward be disputed. Such

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

enjoyment, without evidence to explain how it began, is presined to- have been in pursuance of a full and unqulalified
grant." Garrett v. Jac*kn, 20 Penn. St. 331, 335. Tne same
presumption will arise whether the grant relate to corporeal
or incorporeal hereditaments. As said by this court in ?icard
v. lVdliarns, 7 Wheat. 59, 119, speaking by Mr. Justice Story :
"A grant of land may as well be presumed as a grant of a
fishery, or of common, or of a way. Presumptions of this nature are adopted from the general infirmity of hinman nature,
the difficulty of preserving muniments of title, and the public
policy of supporting long and uninterrupted possessions. They
are founded upon the consideration that the facts are such as
could not, according to the ordinary course of human affairs,
occur, unless there was a transmutation of title to, or an *admission of an existing adverse title in, the party ini possession."
It is not necessary, therefore, in the cases rentioned, for the
jury, in order to presume a conveyance, to believe that a conveyance was in point of fact executed. It is sufficient if the
evidence leads to the conclusion that the conveyance might
have been executed and that its existence would be a solution
of the difficulties arising from its non-execution. In Edsorn v.
Jfl, ,sell, 10 Allen, 557, 568, which was an action for obstructing the enjoyment of an easement, the doctrine of acquiring
such rights by prescription or adverse possession is elaborately
considered; and it is there said, that "the fiction of presuming a grant from twenty years' possession or use was invented
by the English courts in the eighteenth century to avoid the
absurdities of their rule of legal memory, and was derived by
analogy from the limitation prescribed by the St. of 21 Jac. 1,
c. 21, for actions of ejectment. It is not foundrd on a belief
that the grant has actually been made in the particular case,
but on the general presumption that a man will naturally en-joy what belongs to him, the difficulty of proof after lapse of
time, and the policy of not disturbing long continued possessions."
In Casey's Lessee v. lydoes, 1 Gill, 430, 503 [S. C. 39 Am.
Dec. 658], which was an action of ejectment, the Court of
Appeals of Maryland held that where there bad been a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tinuous possession of land for twenty years or upwards by a
party or persons claiming under him, the court was authorized
to insruct the jury, in the absence of a deed to such party, to
presufie.-that one had been executed to him. It also approved.
the refusal of the court below to instruct the jury that before
they cotild find a title in the defendants, or any one of them,
by presA.mption of a grant by the plaintiff or those under whom
lie claims, they must believe on their consciences and find as
a fact that such grant was actually made. "The granting of
such a prayer," said the court, "would have had a tendency
to mislead the jury, by inducing them to believe, that the presumption of a grant could not be made, unless the jury, in
point of fact, believed in the execution of the grant; iyhereas
it is frequently the duty of the jury to find such presumption,.
as an inference of law, although in their consciences they may
disbelieve the actual execution of any such grant."
In TWFlliams v. .Donell, 2 Head, 695, 697, which was also an
action of ejectment, the Supreme Court of Tennessee, speaking
on the same point, said: " It is not indispensable, in order to
-lay a proper foundation for the legal presumption of a grant,
to establish the probability of the fact that in reality a grant
ever issued. It will be a sufficient ground for the presumption
to show that, by legal possibility, a grant might have issued.
And this appearing, it nmay be assmned in the absence of circumstances repelling such conclusion that all that might lawfully have been (lone to perfect the legal title was in fact
done, and in the form prescribed by law."
In accordance with the doctrine thus explicitly declared,
there can be no doubt that the court below should have instructed the jury as i-equested. It would seem from the instruction given that the deed which the defendants insisted
might be presumed was one from Ezekiel and Abigail Fuller,
or from Abigail Fuller to Jereiiiah Richardson. We think,
however-thdt the facts point with equal directness to a conThe codicil to his will, by
veyance from his granidfather.
which he devised the property to his married daughter, was
dated several years &efore his death, and there was no evidence
that he was seized 9f it at that time, except the presumption

FLETCHER v. FULLFR.
Opinion of the Court.

arising from his having once possessed it. It does not appear
that either the devisee or her husband ever exercised any acts
of ownership in. any way; or ever claimed to own it. After
he left Smithfield, two of his children were supported by the
the town, and the agent of the town, appointed to search for
any property belonging to the fathcr, from the sale of which
the children might be supported,7reported that there was only
the six-acre parcel, which was held by him in the right of his
wife. He afterwards went to the poor-house, where he died
in 1800. During the thirty-nine years after he left Smithfield,
and notwithstanding his having been part of that time in the
poor-house, no word appears to have come from him asserting
that he had any interest in the property. It is difficult to reconcile his conduct or that of his wife, the devisee, if in truth
the testator continued the owner of the property until his
death, and it passed under the codicil to his will. While Ezekiel Fuller was still -living, and for several years after he bad
left Smithfield, Jeremiah Richardson, the testator's grandson,
asserted ownership of the tract by its sale to Stephen Jen~hs
by a deed with covenants of title and warranty, which was recorded in the town records. No word of opposition to this
sale or to the subsequent mortgage of the property by the
grantee was ever made, so far as the record discloses. The
fact that Jeremiah Richardson was a minor when his grandfather died does not militate against the presumption of a
deed to him. Nothing would be more natural than a deed of
gift from the grandfather to the grandson. It would also
seem from the charge of the court, that in the deed of Jeremiah to Jencks he recited that the property had come from
his honored grandfather, 6r words to that effect.
If, however, the evidence which, as the record says, tended
to show that the devisee and her husband entered into the
possession of the property devised, 'and the recital in his deed
of April 11, 1761, of the 20-acre parcel, that it was bounded
on the north by his former land, can be considered as rebutting the presumption of such a deed by the testator, then the
defendants may faIl back on the presumption of a deed to
Jeremiah Richardson 'by Ezekiel and Abigail Fuller, the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

visee, and her husband. There is nothing in the conduct or
language of either of these parties which in any way repels
such a presunption. Their silence and non-claim of the property would rather indicate that they had parted with their
interest. The minority of Jeremiah at the time only shows
his inability to purchase the property, but those, under whose
charge he was, could have purchased it for him, and had the
deed executed to him. His orphanage may have induced such
a proceeding. We do not, therefore, think that his minority
at the time can be urged against the presumption of a deed to
him.
For the refusal of the court below to give the instruction
requested, the case must go back for a new trial. We will
add, moreover, that though a presumption of a deed is one
that may be rebutted by proof of facts inconsistent with its
supposed existence, yet where no such facts are shown, and
the things done, and the things omitted, with regard to the
property in controversy, by the respective parties, for long periods of time after the execution of the supposed conveyance,
can be explained satisfactorily only upon the hypothesis of its
existence, then the jury may be instructed that it is their duty
to presume such a conveyance, and thus quiet the possession.
How long a period must elapse after the date of the supposed
conveyance before it may be presumed to have existed has not
always been a matter of easy determination. "In general,"
said this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Story, "it is the policy
of courts of law to limit the presumption of grants to periods
analogous to those of the statute of limitations in cases where
the statute does not apply. But where the statute applies, it
constitutes, ordinarily, a sufficient title or defence, independently of any presumption of a grant, and, therefore, it is not
generally resorted to. But if the circumstances of the case
justify it, a presumption of a grant may as well be made in
the one case as in the other; and where the other circumstances are very cogent and full, there is no absolute baa'
against the presumption of a grant, within a period short of
the statute of limitaztions." Ricard v. lillioms, 7 Wheat. 59,
110.

FLETCHER v.FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

The general statement of the doctrine, as we have seen from
the authorities cited, is that the presumption of a grant is indulged merely to quiet a long possession which might otherwise be disturbed by reason of the inability of the possessor to
produce the muniments of title, which were actually given at
the time of the acquisition of the property by him or those under whom he claims, but have been lost, or which he or they
were entitled to have at that time, but had neglected to obtain, and of which the witnesses have passed away, or their
recollection of the transactidn has become dimmed and- imperfect. And hence, as a general rule, it is only where the possession has been actual, open and exclusive for the period prescribed by the statute of limitations to bar an action for the
recovery of land, that the presumption of a deed can be invoked. But the reason for attaching such weight to a possession of this character is the notoriety it gives to the claim of
the occupant; and, in countries where land is generally occupied or cultivated, it is the most effective mode of asserting
ownership. But, as jNr. Justioe Story observes, in delivering
the opinion of this court in Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 249, "In
the simplicity of ancient times there were no' means of ascertaining titles but by the visible seizin; and, indeed, there was
no other mode, between subjects, of passing title, but livery of
the land itself by the symbolical delivery of turf and twig.
The moment that a tenant was thus seized he had a perfect investiture; and, if ousted, could maintain his action for the
realty, although he had not been long enough in possession
even to touch the esplees. The very pbject of the rule, therefore, was notoriety; to prevent frauds upon the lord and upon
the other tenants." There may be acts equally notorious, and
therefore equally evincive of ownership, which, taken in connection with a long possession, even if that possession has been
subject to occasional intrusion, are as fully suggestive of rightful origin as an uninterrupted possession. Where any proprietary right is exercised for a long period, which, if not founded
upon a lawful origin, would in the usual course of things be
resisted by parties interested, and no such resistance is made,
a presumption may be indulged that the proprietary right had

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

lawful origin. The principle is thus stated by Mr. Justice
Stephen of the High Court of Justice of England, in his
'Digest 6f the Law of Evidence, using the term grant in a genoral sense, as indicating a conveyance of real property, whether
corporeal or incorporeal: "When it has been shown that any
person has, for a long period of time, exercised any proprietary right which might have had a lawful origin by grant or
license from the. Crown or from a private person, and the exercise of which might and naturally would have been prevented by the persons interested; if it had not had a lawful
origin, there is a presumption that such right had a lawful
-origin and that it was created by a proper instrument which
has been lost." Art. 100.
This presumption may, therefore, in some instances, be properly invoked where a proprietary right has long been exercised,
although the exclusive possession of the whble property, to
which the right is asserted, may have been occasionally interrupted during the period necessary to create a title by adverse
possession, if in addition to the actual possession there were
other open acts of ownership. If the interruptions did not impair the uses to which the- possessor subjected the property,
and for which it was chiefly valuable, they should not necessarilly be held to .defeat the presumption of the rightful origin of
his claim to which the facts would otherwise lead. It is a matter which, under proper intructions, may be left to the jury.
In the present case, acts of ownership over the property in
controversy by the ancestors in title of the defendants, so far
as they could be initnifested by written transfers of it, either
as conveyances of title or by way of security, were exercised
from 176S for more than a century. The first conveyance,
from which the defendants trace their title, was duly recorded
in the )and records of the town soon after its execution in that
year. The-assessment of taxes on the property to thos6 ancestors, and their payment of the' taxes for twenty years
between 1770 and 1805, and the assessment of taxes to them or
to the defendants for seventy-seven years after 1805, and the
payment of ,the taxes by them, such assessment being required
to be made, under the laws of the state, to occupants or owners

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the land, are circumstances of great significance, taken in connection with their constantly asserted ownership.. In Ewing
v. Burnet, this court speaks of the uninterrupted payment of
taxes on a lot for twenty-four consecutive years as "powerful
evidence of claim of right to the whole lot." 11 Peters, 41,
54. Here, as seen, the taxes were uninterruptedly paid by the
defendants or their ancestors in title for a much longer period.
In St. Zouis .PublicSchools v. 1Bisley's .Heirs,the Supreme
Court of Missouri said: "Payment of taxes has been admitted
in questions of adverse possession, and may hdve an important
bearing, as it is not usual-for one owning realty to neglect
paying taxes for a period which would be sufficient to constitute a bar under the statute of limitations, or for one to pay
taxes having no claim or color of title." 40 Missouri, 356, 370.
In -Davisv. Easkey, which was an action of ejectment, the Supreme Court of Illinois held that receipts for taxes paid by the
plaintiff were admissible, and said: "The payment of taxes
indicated that the plaintiff claimed title to the whole tract. It
likewise tended to explain the character and extent of his possession." 13 Ill. 192, 201.
In this case, the ancestors of the defendants entered upon
the land under claim of title, and opened and worked the ledge
of rock running through it as early as 1835, and from 1846
they or their tenants or lessees continued, with occasional intervals, to work that ledge to he time of trial in 1882, a period
of thirty-six years, and it does not appear that during that
time any one ever interfered with their work or complained of
it. To congtitute an adverse possession it was not necessary
that they should have actually occupied or enclosed the land.
It was sufficient that they subjected it to-such uses as it was
susceptible of to the exclusion of others. Elieott v. Pearl,10
Pet. 412, 442. That subjection might be shown by the quarrying of the ledge and the removal of the stone, without
disturbance or complaint from any quarter. The exclusive
working of the quarry, under clahif of title to the whole tract
by virtue of conveyances in which it was described, might operate in law to carry the possession over the whole; and the
payment of taxes thereon might authorize the jury to infer

OCTOBER TER-il, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

a continuous possession of the whole, notwithstanding any
temporary and occasional intrusion by others upon a different
part of the tract, which did not interfere with the work.
The entry of the plaintiff with the attorney of his co-heirs
in 1874, and the delivery of the deed to him with a handful.of
earth, if weight and consideration are to be given to that proceeding under the circumstances in which it was made, would
only reduce the period of undisturbed possession to twentyeight years. The cutting of wood on a different portion of the
land by the Fullers for family use, or the manufacture of baskets, at, occasional intervals during a portion of this period,
though competent for the consideration of the jury, was not
necessarily an interruption to the peaceable occupation of the
land, so far as quarrying of the ledge and the removal of the
stone were concerned, to which uses the defendants and their
ancestors in title subjected it, and which appear to have connecessarily change the
stituted its principal value. Nor did*it"
legal effect of the possession for quarrying the ledge with the
attendant claim to the whole tract.
In ]-eVb v. Jilc'/arcdson.,the Supreme Court of Vermont, in
speaking of interruptions in the actual occupancy of real property as affecting the claim of continuous possession, said: "To
constitute a continuous possession it is not necessary that the
occupant should be actually upon the premises continually.
The mere fact that time intervenes between successive acts of
occupancy does not necessarily destroy the continuity of the
possession. The kind and frequency of the acts of occupancy
necessary to constitute a continuous possession depend somewhat on the condition of the property, and the uses to which it
is adapted in reference to the circumstances and situation of the
possessor, and partly on his intention. If, in the intermediate
time between the different acts of occupancy, there is no
existing intention to continue the possession, or to return to
the enjoyment of the premises, the possession, if it has not
ripened into a title, terminates, and cannot afterwards be connected with a subsequent occupation so as to be made available toward gaining title; while such continual intention
might, and generally would, preserve the possession unbro-

FLETCHER v. FULLER.
Opinion of the Court.

ken." 42 Vt. 465, 473. That was an action of trespass for
cutting timber on the land of the plaintiff, who was in possession at the time, and offered testimony to prove that his
possession was earlier than the defendant's, and also that he
had acquired the land by fifteen years' adverse possession.
The defendant did not show a chain of title back to the original proprietor of the land, but showed that his grantors
entered into possession in 1835, and cut timber and claimed to
own the land, and it was held that the question whether this
entry interrupted the plaintiff's possession should have been
submitted to the jury under proper instructions, in connection
with the plaintiff's evidence of continuous possession under
those through whon he claimed, and that it was error to
refuse to submit it.
Our conclusion is, that the claim to the land in controversy
by the defendants and their ancestors in title for over a century, with the payment of taxes thereon, and acts of ownership suited to the condition of the property, and its actual use
for thirty-six or twenty-eight years, it matters not which,
would justify a presumption of a deed to the original ancestor,
Jeremiah Rlichardson, to quiet the possession of the defendants claiming under him, and the jury should have been perimitted to presume such a deed without finding from the
testimonv that there was in point of fact a deed which was
lost. If the execution of a deed -was e.talblished, nothing ftuther would be required than proof of its contents; there would
be no occasion for the exercise of any presumnption on the subject. It is only where there is uncertainty on this point that
the presumption is indulged to quiet the possession.
TReJudgnelt of thte co't bldow mist be reversed, and the
eaae& ieiandedfo' a new trial.

