SUPREkVE COUTRT ti. S.
OL

v

.zt fAnsumA, Ch. J. My own opinion was that ihe
jury was to find the fact Whethtr there wais danger in

betweeh Ba.celodna ahd. Salou, and that they
mvs. co. ought to have been instricted that if there was danger
it j"ustified the del9 y, otherwise notd
kARYiD.pikssing

iFi .
Feb.
240th.

BRIG CAROLIN.Eo WILLIAM BROADFOOT,
CiAIMANT,
V6
THE UNITED STATES.

ERlRlfit to the Circuit Court for tie dishict of
South Cardlina, in a case bofseizitre for violation of the
fnt

A libel

for

in *JLL

a..
O

Vln
4of.,

f;

+1t
L

1r
OY

4-r un
UC

a fqrreiture
must be PrrThe libel was in the words followig tieular and
e rtain m all
the material
"At a special district Court for South
cLI
rSasiee
district., Be it remembered, That on the
1h

Carolina
day

tute the offence.informal
An
libel or nfer.

of
in the year of our Lord tine thousand eight
hundred
and
tle United States of America, by
..

Cour.

United States, by their proper officers of tho customs,
did cause to be seized, arrested and secured, a certain
brig or vessel, called the Caroline§ her tackle9 furniture,
apparel and other appurtenances, as forfeited to them,
the said United States, for that the said brig or'vessel
since the twenty-second day of Mtrh,ib791p was built,
fitted, cquipped loaded, or otherwise prepared within
a port or place of the said Utiited States, or caused to
sail from a port or place of the said United States, by f
citizen or citizens of the said United States, or a foreigner, or other persons coming into, or residing in the
same, either as master, factor, or owner of the said brig
or vessel for the purpose of carrying on trade or traffic
in slaves to a foreign country, and also for that the
said brig or vessel since the day and year last afore-

Thomas Parker, thir attorney fur the district aforemationmrem,
ma e a'- said, came here irto Court and gave ThQmas Bee, esq.
maeded b
judge of the said Couk't to understaiid and i- informed
leave of
that on the
day of
theyj 'the. said

FEBRUAIY TIRM iSi8.
said, was built, equipped, loaded or otherwise prepar=iG
ed within a port or place of the said United States, or CA otrk
caused to sail from a port or place within the said Uii1v.
ted States by a citizen or citizens of the said Uiiited U.STATrS.
States, or a foreigner or other persons coming into or
residing within the same, either as factor,, master or
owner of the said brig or vessel, for the purpose of procuring from a foreign kingdom,. place or country, the.
inhabtants of such kingdom, place or country, to be
transported into a foreign place or country, port or place
to be disposed of and sold as slavc-s in violation of a
certain act of Congress of the said United Stat s, pas§ed tlte,2:zd March, 1794 , entitled "cAn act to prohibit
the carrying on the slave-trade from the United States
to any foreign place or country. Also for that since the
Ist day of Janu:ary, 1808, the said brig or vessel was
built, fitted, equipped, loaded or otherwise prepared in
some port or place within the jurisdiction of- the said
United States, or caused to sad from some port or place
within the said United States by some citizen or citizens" of the said United States, or some other person
for the purpose of procuring negroes, mulattoes, or
persons of color from sonic foreign kingdom, place or
country, to be transported to some port or place within
the jurisdiction of the said United States to he held,
sold, or disposed of as slaves, or to be held to service or
labor, in violation of a certain act of Congress of the
United States, passed the second day of March, *intheyear of our Lord one thousand eight hundred.and seven,
entitled "cAn act to prohibit the importation of slaves
into any port or place-within the jurisdiction of the
U. States from and after the first day of January, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eight."
Wherefore the said United States, by Thomas Parker,
their attorney aforesaid, pray the advice and opinion of
this honorable Court in the premises, and that on due
proof of the allegations afoJresazd, the stud brig or Ves,
sel, her tackle, apparel, furniture anl other appurtenances, may be decreed and adjudged as forfeited to them
the said United States, and that such proceedings may
he had thereon as are agreeable to law and justice, and
the style, usage, and practice of this-honorable Conrt."

VOL. NTR.

-TH MAS PARKER.
,,.attorncy-1. States, S. C. District."
C)4,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BRIG

To thetranscript of the record which came up was

cARoLiwE annexed the following statement of facts
V.STATES.

" The information which was filed in this case against
the Caroline was founded upon an alleged violation either of the 1st section of an act of Congress, passed the
car22d March, i794, entitled "cAn act to prohibit the
to any
"cryng on the slave trade from the United States of an
"foreign place or courtry," or of the 0d section act
"An
act, passed oji the 2d of March, L807, entitled port or
any
into
slaves
of
to prohibit the importation
from
place within the jurisdiction of the United Statesof our
year
the
in
January
and after the first day of
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eight." By'the
puract of 179-, the fitting or sailing of a ship, for the
subcountry,
foreign
any
to
slaves
in
pose of a traffic
forfeiture."
to
jects the ship, concerned in such traffic,
the
" The act of -807 enacts, that if any ship within or
out
fitted
he
shall
States
United
jurisdiction of the
or
caused to sail by any person, either as master, factormunegroe,
any
procuring
of
owner, "for the purpose
to
"latto or person of color from any foreign country
the
within
whatsoever
be transported to any place
or
ijurisdiction of the United States, to be held. sold, laor
,,dispos, d of as slaves, or to be held to service
It
4 bor," he shall b forfeited to the United States.
was adnitted by the Claimant, that the Caroline came
into this port equipped like any common merchant vesand
sel, that she did, after her arrival, recerve fitmentsonly,
slave-trade
tl
for
take on board articles calculated
It was satisfactorily proved that the Claimant, after
receiving information that such equipments were illegal,
restored the Caroline to the condition in which she was
when she entered this port, but that this was tiot done till
after her seizure, and that the wooden parts of the fitments for slaves were marked as they were taken -out
of the vessel. That irt such condition she left Charleston, bound to the, H vannah and to no other port.
That she arrived at th Havannah on the 28th of June,
1810, and that there she was sold about the 6th of August, 18101 to Spanish subjects who fitted her.out for
the African slave trade. His honor the Circuit Judge.
upon the ground- of sufficient evidence having been adduced of intention to carry on the slave trade, either

FEBRUARY TERM 4WM3.
nXG
abroad or at home, and a consequent violation .either
of the act of 1794, or of the act of 1807, decreed that CAROLIA-K
-T.
the Caroline should he condemned as forfeited to the

United States.
-We

U.STATES.

agree in the above statement of the case.
"WILLIAM DRAYTON,
c Proctorfor Appelanit.
"THOMAS PARKER,
"DDistrinct altornuy."

C. LEFE,for the 4ppeltint, contended,
fist. That the libel was not sufficient to support the

condemnation-and
2d. Tat the offence was not made out in point ot
fact.
1. The libel does not state afly certain specific offence. It is altogether in the alternative. It does not
state when, nor where, nor by whom be vessel was
seized-vnor when, nor where, nor by whom, nor m
what manner the vessel was fitted out. It is.altogether
vague, uncertain and inforn i.
An information

in

r'm ought to 4le as precise and

formal as an information *mpersoiarm. The civil law
requires that a libel should be certain and positive irk
all material circumstances.
20..The statement of facts is as imperfect as the libel.
The vessel is only liable *to forfeiture when she phall
have been actually fittbd, equipped or prepared, not
while she is fitting, equzpping, or prepaiing. Thedegree of equipment ought to have been stated that the
Court might judge whether it were such fitting, or equpment as is contemplated by the law. Upon every information for a penalty, the offence sliotild be fully
proved-Parker, 22. This case is like that of .Ioodie
r'. shlip .Alfred, 3. Dal. 30, in which this Court decild-

600

SUPRIDME COURT U. S.

T=YG ed that the s81p was not illegallyfitted out, although she
MAr-OL)NE had taken on board some articlescalculated for war.
*0.

voST.&TES.

J. R. ING-EiRSOLL, contra.
Contended that the case and the libel were sufficiently explicit. The intent was clearly shewn. It is not
nec ssary that every thing necessary for the voyage
should, be on board befdre the forfeiture accrues. The
libel states the offence in the words of the act of Congress.

THE CouRT, after taking time to consider, directed
the folIwing sentence to be entered.
"tThis cause came on to be heard on the transcript
" of the record and was argued by counsel, on considerc ation whereof, it is .the opinion.of the Court, that the
"6libel ts too imperfectly drawn. to found a sentence of con66demnation thereon. The sentence of the said Circuit
it Court is therefore reversed, and the. c;,use remanded
"to the said Circuit Court, -with directions to admit the
" libel to be amended."
The same point was .also decided at this term, in the
cases of the schooner ffoppet-the selto.ner Rnterpnrie- the ship Emily, and the schooner .qnn.

1513..
March

RIGGS v. LINDSAY.

9th:

____

0

bsent....TonOD

r.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Columbia, in.an action of assumpsit, in which the verdict
ordered tue ani judgment were in favor of the Plaintiff, Lindsay.
TheDeen.
having
dants

Plhuntiff'to
purchase salt

fr them, and The case was now argued by JoiNs and HARPER. for
to draw.on the Plaintiff in error, and byF S. Kzy and MoRs MLa
-torm for thf
for tbe Defendant.
o,,
u
he-having so
The former contended,. that Riggs was notte be co
purh;md and
Tn
drawn, ly
und to sidered as a joint contractor, but a sub-purchaser., and
.

