FE13RUARY TERM 1812.
UNITED STATES v. JOHN TYLER.

1812.

THIS case having been submitted without argu- Upon an indictment for
ment.-

J. delivered the opinion of the Court as
followstent

LIVINGSTON,
follows

putting goods
on board a carrinage,tovith m-

trans.

port them out
of the United
States contra-

The Defendant was indicted under the act to enor, y to the act of
the embargo laws passed the 9th January, 1809, for Jan. 9, 18o9,
loading,; oncrigs
on cariages, within
the district
of Vermont,
ihnth
itito
em
n the
entpuishof "which
inetein barrels of pearl-ashes, with intent to transport ofrenceisaflne

the same without the United States

province of Canada.

to wit, into the the
of Tour
valuetimes
of
the goods, itis
not necessary

On a plea of not guilty, the jury returned the 'follow- that the jury
should find the,
ing written verdict, which was recorded.
value of the
gooils.

"cThe jury find that the said John Tyler is guilty of
cc the charge alleged against him in said indictment,
" and that the said pot-ashes were worth two hundred
"and eighty dollars."
The Defendant moved in arrest ofjudgment, because
the verdict was not sufficiently certain as to the value
of the property charged in the indictment, the same
having found the value of pot-ashes, whereas the Defenlant was indicted-for the intention of exporting pearlashes.
Upon this motion, the judges being opposed in opinMon, .the same has been certified unto this Court for its
direction in the premises.
Tie law which creates this offence provides that the
party shall, upon conviction, be ,adjudged guilty of a
high misdemeanor, and finded a sum by the Court hefore which the conviction is had, equal to four times
the value of the property so intended to be exported.
The Court, then,'is of opinion that, under this law, no
valuation by the jury was necessary to enable the Circuit Court to impose the proper fine; and, therefore

SUPREME" COURT U. S.
U,.STATS

v.

TY.Lu.

that that part of the verdict which is objected ti) is regarded as surplusage, and cannot depiive the United
States of the judgment to which they became entitled
by the Defendant's conviction of the offence la4d in the
indictment.
It must, accordingly, be certaied to the Court below,
that it proceed to render judgment for the United
States, on the verdict aforesaid.

(FQND OF FEBRUARY TERM, 1812.)

