SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILLIAMS legislature which was competent to make it, was also
& OTHERS competent to limit its operation, or to give it effect by
the employment of such means as its own wisdom should
v.
AR.AROYI) sug"gest. Had one of these been, that all sentences pro&6IrtHtiRS. nounced under it should-be considered as void, and incapable of changing the property they professed to condemn, tlht- C,'urt could not have hesitated to recognize
the title of the original owner in this case& But the legislature has not chosen to declare sentences of condemnation, pronounced under this unjustifiable decree, absolutely void. It has not interfered'with them. They
retain therefore the obligation common to all sentences
whether erroneous or otherwise, and bind the property
which is thei" object, whatever opinion other co-ordi
nate tribunals may entertain (if their own proprietv, or
of the laws 'under which they were rendered.

k7te sentence ?s qffirmed -with costs,

SMI'T AND BUCHANAN
,M -eh

9th.

0.

THE DELAWARE" INSURANCE COMPAN-

.,bsent...,WAsHINGToN,

A, verdit "fur

J. and ToDD,

J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
opinon Marvland, iman action of covenant on a policy of in

the
Defendauts subject
to the

of the Court surance.

bpon the points
-reserved,"

does not an- The jury found a verdict ,fo.Ji the Defendants, subject
ourt
Ieon the points reser-d." And
thoize andA- the oinn of
Defndt
otn 7,
salute juilg.
meat-for thejttdgment was thereupon rendered ,,for the Defndants
eori,1.
Defendants,
."
unless the
pqipts reserv-

.......

edad'the l- The Plantiffs, by their counsel, moved the Court behe
~
'te
eevd'
-wuon of the o it
Court thereon, lOW that the points reserved (which the motion states.
are stated oa without stating the fact- out of which they arose) and
the ord. the opinion of the Court upon those points, shoiuld be
entered on the record.

FEBRUARY TERM i413.
The Court did not act on this motion, and, of course, sv.z~u &
the points do not appear, so as to enable tis Court to
urrcHtake notice of them.
AWAN
The Defendants (it was said) would not agree to any
arrangement by which the legal merits of the cause, as
they appeared below, might come into discussion here.
PNxqNBY, .Attorney Gentral.forPlantiffs in error,
Contended that the verdict was imperfect, contradic
tory and void, and did not warrantithe judgment pro-.
nounced upon it, nor any other judgment. 23 Vin. 397,
pl. 10. It is neither a general nor a special verdict.
HARPER, contra,

Admitted that it was in form an irregular proceed=
Ing, but he was instructed to insist on the .judgmeit.
It is a general verdict for the Defendants: and by
consent of parties it was referred to the Court; -and if
they should be of opinion that the verdict should not
ptand, they were to award a venre de novo. It was -the
negligence of time Plaintiffs in not having the facts, or
the points and'consent, stated on the record.
It is evident that what was done was by conseif.
The Plaintiffs do not appear to.'have wished to brin;
the case here, but were at the time contented to rely
on the opinion of the Court' below.
A sRsALL, Ch. .T. The case is*too plain for argu.
ment. The jury did not intend to find a general verdict, but to submit the points of law to the°Court. If
the law' had been for the Plaintiffs the Court could only
have awariled a -venire de novo. The facts ought to
mq.ve appeared, so that the judgment might have been
either reversed or affirmed upon the meirits.

Judgment reversed, and a new trial awarded.

DELA-

wARt
qej

INs.

