SUPREME COURT I. S.

BiMd

valuable and large tricts of real estate, and ttven ProIBn
duce alienations of' them without any consideration
w.
1 iu oR& whatever being received. It is better that-an individual
THORN- should now and-then suffer by such mistakes, than to
introduce a rule against an abuse, of whlh, by improTON.
per coIlusions, it would be very difficult for the public
to protect itself. It is the opinion of this Court, that the
decree of the Ciecuit Court be affirmed.

HERBERT AND OTHERS
Feb.

WREN AND WIFE AND OTHERS.

15t.

Present...All the Judges except ToDD, J,
ERROR to the Circuit Court.for the district of
courts
Columbia, sitting at Alexahldria, in a suit in Chancery
Chanceryof
hve conCeurbrought by Richard Wren, and Susanna, his wife, who
re4- jurisdie- was the widow of Lewis Hipkins, deceased, and John
and Westley Adams, her trustees, against W' Herberti
with
ccases of T. Swann, R..B. Lee, and W B. Page, (trustees of
14ower, especi- Philip R. Fendall, deceased) atid E. 1. Lee. Jos. Deane
Greens
41iy where.tition, disco- and F, ,reen,
count
The case was
ed-andin

-jiery, isorprayae;

stated by MARSHAL,

Gh, T. (in de-

liverifig the opinion of the Court) as follows:
Tins suit was brbuglt by Richard Wken, and. Susanahouldbegiven na, his wifej formerly the wife Qf Lewis Hipkiis, praytk lieu of ddwmg that dower may be .asgned her in a tract of land
er.
Iadeviseof of which her former husband died seized, and which
has since been sold and conveyed to the Defendant, Joandm totgra to the
widow, appear seph Deane, or that a just equivalent in money may be
of sale where
the paftieg are
sumin thgras

fro"'circum- decreed
intended m
lieu of dower'.
she mustmake

her eleeton,

The

her in lieu thereof,

material circumstances of the case are these.

Lewis Hipkins being seized as tenant in common
and cannot
with Philip Richard Fendall of one thn'd of a tract of
kebOth.
join
l"ur lying in the county of Fanfa~x Iiy his dted exeerawife
hosbasd
in land

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
cuted by himself and wife, leased the same to Philip HEf;lERT
Richard Fendall for the term of thirteen years, to corn- & OTHERS,
%.
mence on the first of September, in the year 1,791, at
WREN
the annual rent of :1401.
&OTHERS.

In the year 1791 Lewis Hipkins departed this life,
for
having first made his last will and testament in writing, as"nleseett
is which he devised both real and personal estate to his
il the
wife fse real estate for her life, with remainder to his etoer
rent.
A Court of
three daughters.
Chancery can-

To hi two sons he devised the preimlses in question, not allow a
and added that if, during the minority of his sons, Phl- purchase oelip R. Fendall should erect thereon another, water mill ney in lieu of
when
or water mills, his desire was that his sons or the sur-'lower,
'- the estate is
by
sold,
unless
for
lease
the
of
expiration
the
at
should,
vivor of them
of all
consent rate-e"parties
years made to the said Philip pay one third part of athe
value of such mill or mills, and in default of payment resed.
that P R. Fendall should be permitted to hold the same
at the presenlt rent until the value should be received.
He directed his two tracts of land in Loudon to he
sold for the payment of his debts, and appropriated the
annual rent accruing on the lands leased to P R. Fendall to the education and maintenance. Qf his children,
The testator then adds the following clause:
" If it should so happen- that the remaiing part of
my estate not herein bequeathed should prove insufficlent to pay all just demands against my estate, then
my will and desire is that my executors shall sell as
much of my real and personal estate as may be necessary to make up the deficiency, and that they shall sell
such parts as will divide the loss among my representa:tives as nearly as may be in proportion tb the property
bequeathed to-thim and.each of them."
On the iSth day of December, in the year 1797, Susanna Ilipkius. then the widow of Leis Hipkins, conveyed her dower in the premises in question and dlso
in the land devised to her for life by her deceased hushand to the Plaintiffs, John Adams and Westley Adams,
,intrust for her.use.

S'tJRM~ COURT U.. S.
In the year 1803 P R. Fendall and Walker Muse in& omirRs stltuted a suit against the execitors and children of
v.
Lewis Hipkins, deceased, and in the month of June in
wRBN
that year the cause came on to be heard by consent of
&OTHERS. p rties, when the Court decreed that the whole estate of
Lewis Hipkins be sold and the money broughtinto Court.

UiAbtni T

The report of the salb does not appear on the record,
but an entry was made that the report was made and
confirmed by the Court.
Under this decree the pre.mises were sold and con-veyed to the Defendant, E. L Lee, who purchased in
trust for P R. Fendall, one of the executors of Lewis
lipkins. On the deed of conveyance is a miemorandum
stating that the property was sold subject to dower.
Lee conveyed the premises to the other Defendants,
trustees of P R. Fendall, for the purposes of a trust
deed which had been previously executed conveying to
them the other two thirds of the same estate on certain
trijsts in the deed recited.
The trustees sold and conveyed to the Defendant, Joseph Deane.
The bill states that the Defendant, Joseph Deane,
bad not paid the purchase money, and was willing,
should the Court decree dower in the premises, to give
an equivalent in money in lieu thereof.
Soon after the trust deed from Susanna Hipkins to
John and Westley Adams she intermarred with the
Plaintiff, Richard Wren.
Philip R. Fendall continued to pay the Plamtiff, Su-

.ianna, during her widowhood, and the Plaintiffs, Rich-

ard and Susanna, after their intermarriage, one third
part of the, rent accruing on the premises devised to
hlin by Ilipkins and wife until the year iS03 since
which he has refused or neglectedto pay the same.
The Defendants, the trustees of Philip Richard .Viidall, lie having deprted this life previous to the mititunon of tils suit, insist,

FEBRUARY TER

I83.

I. That the remedy*of the Plamtifs, if they-have i
.ri
any, is at law, and'that a Court of equity can take no & oTIMR
V.
jurisdiction of the cause2. That the provision made by the will of Lewis Hip- & OTfrlS..
-kins for the Plaintiff, Susanna, .not .having been renounced by. her, bars her right of dower in his estat.
The Defendant, Joseph. Deane, has put in no-answer,
"und as against him the bill is taken as confessed.
The Circuit Court determined that the lim. of the
Plaintiff, Susanna, to dower 'was not liarred, and decreed her a sum in gross as an equivalent therefor.
From this decree the trustees of Philip Richard Fen-.
dail have.appealed. The Plaintiffs also oblect to so
much of the decree as refuses them rent on the premises,
and 'have therefore taken out likewise a .writ of error.
E. I. IE,

.forthe Frlhahttisft ernor

i. If the Complaidnit, Susanna, has any right of
dower, her remedy was in a Court of law.
In a suit in Cfiancery, if a question of dower arise,
and the right of do er be denied,,a Court of equity
will send it to a Counst of law to be tried.
The Courts of the United States are forbidden by
law, to exercise Chancery jurisdiction in a case in which
there is a remedy at law. A Court of equity takes cognizance of no case of dower which does not inv1ie
some peculiar ground of equity- such as discovery,
partition; account, &c,
Here was no prayer for discovery, nor partition, atid
although an account was prayed, yet it.was unnecessaVy
F.onk. 19. 1 Br C. C. 326. 3 Atik. 130. -Oormel,v. Fortescue. a -Br C. V. 631. 2 Vez. Jr 124,.
2. She had no right to dower. H1er husband, Hipkins, had devised to her an estate for life, which appears, by the various'provisions i liis will, to have
Peen intended to be in lieu of dower The lands out of

SUPREME COURT U. S.

he devised to his sonsa
& OTHERS and also devised them for payment of his debts. He
specifically devised away all his lands.
v
nnnRB.RT which dower is now claimed,

WREN

&OTHERS.

In the case of .tmbler -.o.Nbton, & Hen. and .Mun. 23,
tile devise was not expressly in lieu of dower, hut the
fact was collected from the whole context of the will.
S. But if she had a right of dower, the Court had no
authority to make a decree for part of the purchase
money, without the consent of all parties concerned.
SInst./ As.
R. I. TAYLOR, contra.
None of the facts upon which the claim of dower is
founded'is denied by the answer. The denial of the
right is founded on particular facts thereit'stated.
i. As to the jursdiction. at the present day Courts
of law and equity have a concurrent jurisdiction in
dower, if the facts are not denied upon whch the claim
of- dower is founded, such as seizure, &c. In general
a -Court of Chancery i the proper tribunal. A discqvery is alvnost always sought; partition is frequently
required, and an account is generally taken. Comyns
Dig, Tit. Chancery, E. .Mlitford, 109, 129. 1 Fonb. 24.
6 Bac. .db. 4M7. 2'Vet. Jr 12,2. There is no case
in Virgitnal where.he jurisdiction has been denied.

In this case a partition was necessary, and that is a
special ground of equitable jurisdictiQn.
But the property had been sold by order of Court,
expressly subject to dower, and the deed to Deane contamed a covenant to indemnify hun against the claim of
dower. A Court of Chancery can call allparties before
-it, -and by decreeing a compensation in lieu of land,
prevent circuity of action. The widow and the purchaser had consented to sucha decree. An account of
rents and profits was also necessary. The act of Congress prohibiting the resort to Chancery where there is
a remedy at lawo,is only an affirmance of a principle of
the common law.

ABRUARY TERM 1813.
But it is said that by joining in the lease for 13 years, -HERBRiFL'[
she barred her dower during the lease. This is not so. & oTHERS
V.
Her husband still had, a free nold of inheritance in the
VREN
entiis
widow
the
And.
land, and died'seized thereof.
tied to dower in -all lands of which the husband Was &6rHEJS.
seized of the freehold of inheritahce during thd coverture. t Inst.. 32. Com..Dig. Tit. Dower, A. 6.
But the most formidable objection arises upon the devJse to her by the will. That devise was not exprpssly
in lieu of dower, nor is there such averrnent as thq.state
of 'Virgmia requires. Tiierb is no averment that she
accepted the lands devised in lieu -of dower; nor that
her husband was seized of such an estate in those lands
as would be a bar if she had accepted them.
The decree of the Court was for a sale.of the -Whole
real estate of her husband. It does not appear that the
land devised to her was not sold as well as the rest. If
it was she i' not barred of ,her dower. Co. Lit.: 8,
(B.) Harg. note. Ridgeway's Rep. tern. Hardzicke--84!.
Dormer v. Fortescue. Fbnb. 22. 6 Bac; 8b. 417"
But there is an error in'favor of the Plaintiff in errors
and if'the cause should be sent back it ought tq b6 corrected. There was no allowance made for arrearages
of rent.
As to the decree for money n'liei of land. Th6
widow was willing to receive i% and the Def.endanti
Deane, tb pay it. If. there had noit been a decree .':o
money, Deane would have been obliged to. pay the wliol
purchase money to the trustees and then sue them for iX
lIreich of covenant, and* recover back in damages -the
value of the dower to be assessed by a jury. By ascetltdining that value in the first instance, this circuity -df
action and loss of time are pre~ented; Wbether tbq,
CE'rt'below ought themselves to ,have-fixed the valuie
of the dower, or left it to be. ascertained by a master in
chancery, or by a jury, we do Aot.pretend to say We'
do not wish the decree .to be affirmed. -We hope the
bill will not be dismissed, but sent back with instructions to allow us tim arr erages 6f rent with the profits
tkdreon, and that an accoimt be taken accordingly.

376
Un-n13ERT
& OTHERS

SURMIF U@1VAT ~

C. LEE, in reply.

10.
The essential point Qt the case L9 that she il barred
WREi
of her dower by her acceptance of 4 jointure under the
&U Qs, will. The act of assembly (Rev. Co. 180, ยง i) saya
66 that if any estate be conveyed by deed or will, either
expressly, or by averment, in lieu Qf dower," &c. "suh
conveyance shall bar her dower of the residue," &c.
She has accepted her jointure and resides upon it. All
the circumstances of the will show the intent to be/in
lieu of her dower. By, averment, means by allegailon
and proof delhors the will. I Inst. 36, (b) note. Woodeson Tit. IDoover Hargrave Co. Lit.,36, ('b) note, I Br
0, C. 2t92, Pearson v. Pearson.

IThe Court had no right to decree money
in Ilieu of
the land without consent of the creditors.
No arrearages of dower can be recovered for the time
preceding the demand.
February 26th....MARSHALL, Ck. J1. after stating the
case, delivered the opinion of-the Court as follows
The material questions in the cause are
1. Has a Court of equity jurisdiction in the case?
2. Is the Plaintif, Susanna, entitled to dower?
a. If these points be in her favor what decree ought
the Court to make?
According to the practice which prevails generally
in England, Courts of equity and Courts of law exercise a concurrent jurisdiction in assigning dower.
Many reasons exist in England in favit of this jurisdiction. one of which is, that partitions are made and
accounts are taken in chancery in a manner highly favorable to the great purposes of justice. In this case
dower is to be assigned in an undivided third part of an
estate, oo that it is a case of partition of the original
estate as well as of assignment of dower in the part of
which Lewis lipkms died seized.

FEBRUARY X1R

101

An additional reason afiid a conclusive oii6 in -favoir utn.RTu
bf the jurisdiction of a Court of equity is this. The & OTHERS
V.
lands are in' possession of a purchaser who has not yet
paid the purchase money. A Court of law could ad.. wnni
judge to the Plantiffs only a third part of the land it- &onTHES,
self. Now, if the Plaintiffs be willing to leave the purchaser undisturbed, to affirm the sales and to receive a
compensatioh for her dower instead of the land itself, a
Court of equity ought never, by refusing its aid, to
drive her into a Court of law and compel her fo'receive
her dower in the lands themselves, Tins is therefore
a proper case for application to a Court of' Chanceryi
2. It is perfectly clear that the provision made by
Lewis Hipkmns in his last will is no bar to a claim of
dower for several reasons, of which it will be necessary
to mention only two.
i. It is not expressed to be made in lieu of dower.
2. It is not averred that she has accepted the pro.
stn and still enjoys it.
3. It remains to inquire what decree the Court ought
fo make in the case.
The first question to be discussed is thins. Is the
PlaintifT, Susanna, entitled both to dower and to the
provision made for her m the will of her late husband?
The law of Virginia has been construed to authorxz
an averment that the provision in the will is made in
lieu of dower, and to support that averment by matter
dehors the will. But, with the exception 'of this allowance to prove the intention of the testator by other
testimony than may be collected from the will itselt, the
act of the Virginia legislature is not understood in any
respect to vary the previously existing conunon law:
In the English books there are to be found many de.
cisions in which the widow has been put to her electioui
either to take her ower and relinquish the provision
made for her in the will, or to take that provision and
pelinquish her dower. There are othe- casea in whwk
4.9
VOlT VII

378

SUPREME COURT U. S.

she has been permitted to hold both. The principle
& OTHEiRS upon which these cases go appears to be this
iEizniRT
"V.

It is , maxim in a Court of equity not to peizmit tho
&oTHERs. same person to hold under and against a will. If tbore,
fore it be manifest, from the face of the will, that the
testator did not'intend the provision it contains for his
widow to be in addition to her dower, but to be in lieu
of it; if. his intention discovered in other parts of the
w-ill must be defeAted by the allotment of dower to the
widow, she must renounce either her dpwer, or the benefit shre claims under the will. But if the two provisions
may stand well together, if it may fairly be presumed
that the testator intended the devise or bequest to his
wife as additional to her dower, then she May hold both.
WRN

The cases of Arnold v. Kempstead and wife, of Villarael and 'lord Galway, and -f Jones v. Collier and
others, reported hy Ambler, are all cases in which,
uion the principle that has been stated, the widow was
put to her election.
In the case under consideration neither party derives
ny aid from extrinsic circumstances, and therefore the
case must depend on the will itself.
The.value iQf the provision made for the wife compared with the whole estate is not in proof but so tar
as a judgment on this point can be formed on the evidence furnished by the will itself, it was supposed by
him to be as ample as his circumstances would justify
The orjly fund provided for themaintenance and edu,
cation of his five children is the rent of 1401. per anium, payable by P R. Fendall. Since he has made a
distinct provision for his wife, the presumption is much
against his intending that this fund should be diminished by being charged with her dower.
That part of the will, too, which authorizes P R. Fendall, in the event of building a mill and not receiving
from the sons of the testator their half of its value, to
hold the premises until the rent. should discharge that
debt, indicates an intention that in such case the whole
rent should be retained.

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
The clause, too, directing the residue of his estateto TmuR,,i'r
be sold for the payment of debts is indicative of an ex- & oTimRs
v.
pectation that the property stood discharged of dower,
and is a complete disposition of his whole estate. The wnHN
testator appears 'to have considered himself as at liber- &OTHEns.
ty to arrange his property without any regard to the
,ucumbrance of dower.
Upon this view of the will it is the opinion of the
majority of the Court that the testator did not intend
the provision made for his wife as additional to her
dower, and that she cannot be permitted to hold both.
She has not however lost the right of election. N9
evidence is before the Court that she has accepted the
provision of the will, nor that she still enjoys it.
Indeed there is much reason to suppose the fact to be
otherwise. The decree of :.8035 does not except the
lands decreed to her for life from its operation, nor is
the Court informed by the evidence that those lands
were not sold under it.
But if she had accepted that provision and still enjoyed it, there is no evidence that she considered herself
as holding it in lieu of dower. On the contrary, she
was in the actual perception of one third of the rent accruing on the lease held by P R. Fendall, and in the
deed executed by her in 1797, before heir second mar-.
riage, she conveys her dower in the lands leased to Fendall, and also her dower in the lands devised to her by
her deceased husband. It is therefore apparent that
she never intended to abandon her claim to dower.
The next enquiry to be made by the Court is, to
what profits is the Plaintiff, Susanna, entitled in consequence of the detention of dower?
It is unnecessary to decide whether, in general, a person claiming dower from a purchaser can recover
profits winch accrued previous to the institution of her
suit. In this case the Plaintifr was in the actual enjoyment of dower. She received one third of the rent ac
cruing from the premises for nine years; She was
therefore in full possession of her dower estate, and
when afterwards the land was sold under a decree of a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
0 riuaw Court, P R. Fendall was one7 of the'executors who made
& OTEMUS tile sale, and was himself in effect the purchaser of the
v.
estate. Upon no principle could he justify the refusAl
vRB.N to pay that portion of the rent which was equal to her
&oTIERs. doWer in, the- land, unless on the'pnncaple that she was
- Qt entitled to dower. In this case therefore the Plaintiff is entitled to one third of it0l. per annum for the
remaining four years of the lease under which P 14
Fendall held the land, anil to an account for profits after
the expiration of the lease.
But th6 Plaintiff, Susanna, cannot claim the profits
on her dower and hold any portion of the particular
estate devised to her, or of the'profits on that estate.
An account therefore must be taken, if required by the
Defendants, showing what she has received under the
vill of-her husband. TIq must be opposed to the profits to which she to entitled for dower, and the balance
laccd to the credit of the party in whose favor itmay be.
It remains to enquire witethet- the allowance of a sum
in gross in lieu of dower in the land itself, or of the interest on one third of the purchase ntoney, might legr.t,y bo made,
This must be considered as a compromise between
the Plaintiffs and the Defendant, Deane. His assent
being averred in 'the bill, and The bill being taken pro
confesso as to him, this may be considered as an arrangeinebt to wich he has consented. 'Tis, however, cannot affect the other Defendants. They have a right to
insist 'that, instead of a sum in gross, one third of the
purchase money shall be set apart and the interest therepf paid annually to the tenant in dower during her life.
If the parties all concur in preferring a sum in gross
to the decree which the Court has a right to make, still
it is uncertain on what priiciple seven years were' taken
as the vitdue of the life of the tenant in d6wer. It is
probably a reasonable estimate, but this Court does not
perceive on what principles it was made, nor does the re.
cord furnish the means of judging of its reasonableness.
.This Court is of opinion that there is error Xn the
decree of the Circuit Court in not requiring -the Plain-

FEBRUARY TERM i8i3.

3SI

tiff, Susanna, to elect between dower and the estate de- HERBERT
vised to her by her late husband, and in not allowing & OTHERS
IT.
profits on her dower estate if she shall elect to take
dower. The decree is to be reversed and the cause re- wYREiN
manded for further proceedings in conformity with the'&oTAiElS,
following decree
This Court is of opinion that the Plaintiff, Susanna,
is not barred of her right of dower in the lands of which
her late husband, Lewis Hipkms, died seized, but that
,.she cannot hold both hei dower and the property to
wliidh she may he entitled under the will bf the said
Lewis. She ogght therefore to have made her election
either to adhere to her legal rights and renounce those
under the will, 'or to adhere to the will and renounce
her legal rights, before a decree could be made -in her
favor.
This Court is farther of opinion .that the Plaintiff,
Susanna, having been in possession of her dower by the
receipt of rent for several years after the death of her
late husband, Ls, in the evetit of her electing to adhere
to her.claim of do'wer, entitled to receive from the estate of P R. Fend-all the profits winch have accrued on
her dower estate in his possession from the time when.
he ceased to pay the same, until the sale was.made to the
Defendant, Jostph Deane, and is entitled to receive from
the said Joseph Deane the profits which have accrued
thereon since the same. was sold and conveyed to him,
to ascertain which an account ought to be directed.
And the Court is further of opinion that an account
ought also to be directed to ascertain how much the said
Susanna has received from the estate of her late husband, and what profits she has receive.d from'the estate
devised to her in his will: all which must We deducted
from her claim for dower.
The Court'is .further of opufton that if the parties or
either of them shall he dissatisfied with the allotment of
a sum in gross, and shall prefer to have one third part
of the purchase money, given by the said Joseph Deane
for the lands in which the Plaintiff, Susanna, claims
dower, set apart and secured to her for her life, so that.
she may rjceive during life the interest accroing there.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HEnBZBRT

on, and shall apply to the Circuit Court to reform its

&OTRRts decree in this respect, the same ought to be done.
VD.

WREN
&OTHERS.

It is the.opinion of this Court that there is no error
in the decree of the Circuit Court for the county- of
Alexandria in determining that the Plaintiff, Susanna,
was entitled to dower in the estate of her late husband,
Lewis Hipkmns, deceased, but that there is error in not
requiring her to elect between her dower and the provision.iade for her in the will of her late husband, and
in not decreeing profits on the same. This Court doth
therefore reverse and annul the said decree, and doth

remand the cause to the said Circuit Court with instructions to reform the said decree according to the directions hereito contained.
JOHNSoN, J. dissented from the opinion of the Court,
but did not state Ins reasons.

1s13.
Feb.

THE CARGO OF THE BRIG AURORA, BURN
2XL
SIDE, CLAIMANT,
VO.

THE UNITED STATES.

Present....Jl1 the Judges execpt TODD, J.
Thle Legina.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the dis-

tureaaymake __ C
for t
the revival of tiCourt for the district df Orleans, condemning the
an act depend cargo of the brig Aurora, for having been imported from
,upon a future

eyent, and di- Grekt Britain, in violation of the -th and Sth sections
rect thatevent Of the non-intercourse act of Marchist, 1809, vol. 9, p.
to he
de 24.3, which it was contended were in force against

lamiaon. x" Great Britain, on the 20th
Whenan actofthis cargo was seized,) by
Congress isre-

of February, 18i,

when
virtue of the act of .May
vrvedby an Ist, i8i0, vol.1O p. 186, and the Presulent'sproclamation
sequent act, it of JVrvember 2d, :810.
isrevived precisely in that

form, and with By the 4th section of the act of March Ist, 1809. it is
that effect, enacted, " that from and after the 20th day of ,ay nextG
at thronet ," it shall not be lawful to import into the United States

