FEBUItWAR

TEOM Iis.

0

LIVINGSTON v. DORGENOU .
..

..

..

.

1813
feb.

28th.

J.bsent,...LIVINGST_N, .. and TODD,
THIS was a writ of error to the District Cotrt of A wrt of erdoes not
the United States for the District of Orleans, in a suit ror
lie to an order
brought in that Court, by Edward Livingston aganstofihe Court
F 1. Le Breton Dorgenois marshal of the territory oftowthostae y
Orleans, according to the forms of the cvil law as es. rgsfinally
upon
suge
tablished in that territory.
ion of the at_ •tornev
the
The petition of E. Livingston stated, that one Joln
United for
Stae,.
Gravier, .on the 30th of April,:1803, was an inhabitant in., ase to
of the province of Louisiana, that he was the owner nied States
and posspssor of a plantation or parcel of land adjoin- ae not pa,urt,
,.lamg, and next above the city of Now Orleans, and
Amanbounded in front on -the river Mississippi, which had
d
l ', ward
been uninterruptedly, owned and possessed by himse f amus ', in
and those. under whom lie claimed, for upwards of eighty aprocedende.
years. That the said plantation or parcel of land had
then, to wit, on the said 30th day of April, and long
before, been greatly increased by the alluvion of the
said river, winch had always, from the several periods
6f its increase, been considered, possessed, and lawfully held, as parcel of the said. tract of land, by ths
said Gravier .and those under whom he held.
That the mayor, aldermen, and inhabitants of the
city of New Orleans having, under some preten6 of
title to the said alluvion, or to a servitude therein, comwitted divers trespasses on the said land, the said Yohin
Gravir filed his petition in the Superior Court of the
territory of Orleans, being a Court of competentjurisdicti6n, and from whose judgment there is no appeal,
prayingrfor an injunction against the said trespasses,
and that lie might be quited in the possession of the
said land. And that such proceedings were had, in the
said Court, on the said petition, that it was finally adjudged and decreed, that the said John Gravie. should
be quieted in his lawful enJoyment of the said alluvon,
and that an injunction, before granted, should.be made
perpetual, which judgment was carried into execution.
Aft.-r which, the petitioner (Livingston) took possession,
_1
VOL. -IM

6
LIVINGS-

.TON

v.
vDaeeNoIs.

8

6UPREME COURT U. S.

under Gravier, of the property in question, wluchfhe
held as the legal owner in fee, by virtue of sundry conveyances from Graviej, and others who legally held
under him, and that the possession of Gravier, in which
he was qtieted by the said decree, was legally and uninterruptedlv transmitted to the petitioner, Livingston 9
and that lie held -the same until the 25th of January,
1808, when he was forcibly dispossessed by the Defendant. the mars~al of the district of Orleans, who
still retains the possession thereof, contrary to law.
The petitioner then prays that, in the first instancep
without prejudice to his further claims, he may be restored to the possession of which lie has been illegally
deprived, and may have such further and other relief
as the nature of his case may require.
To this petition the Defendant answered, and pleaded in bar, that before and on the 25th of January, 1803,
he was marshal of the district of Orleans, and in his
official capacity received from the president of the United States, an instruction or mandate, to remove from
the lands in question, all such persons as should be
found thereon, and who should havetaken possession
thereof, or settled thereon since the 3d of March, 18079
which instruction or 'nandate was communicated to the
Defendant officially, by the direction of the President of
th( Ulnited States, in a letter written by James Madison, then secretary of state, which letter is in the
words and figures following, viz.
"

SIR,

, Department of State, .Nov. s0, 1807

"6In pursuance of the provisions of the act of Uongress, 6 tQ" prevent settlements on lands ceded to the
6,United States, until authorized by law," I am directed by the president to instruct you to remove nnmddiately from the land known and called by,the name of
the Batture, in front of the suburb St. Mary, of the
city of New Orleans. which was ceded to the United
States by the treaty with France, and the settlement of
which has not been authorized by any law of the United States, all pers..ns who shall be found on the same,
and who shall have taken possession or settled thereon

FEBRUARY TERM 18is.
since the 3d day of March, in the year i807. Should any LivIINGsaid be necessar-, you will call for the assistance of the
TOii
good citizens of the district, as the p)osse comitatus, or
T.

civil power of the territory.

DORGF,NOIs,

I have the honour to be,
Very respectfully, sir,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES- MADISON.
"iFranczs Joseph Le Breton Dorgenozs,-Esq.
marshal of the Orleanstenitorj."
And that the Defendant did accordingly, on the said
25th day of January, as marshal as aforesaid, and in
obedience to the said instruction or mandate of the president, remove the Plaintiff and his servants from the
lands aforesaid, the same having been taken possession
of by the Plaintiff since the 3d of March, 1807, which
said removal is the same, which the PJaintiff has set
forth in Ins petition, and this he is ready to verify, &c.
To this plea there was a general demurrer and joinder, but upon the day assigned for the argument,
"Tully Robinson, esq. attorney for the United States,,
"moved the Court liat the proceedings be stayed, upon
"fa suggestion that the suit is fictitious and collusive,
"'that the Defendant is entirely ninterested in the
"cause, not having (though impliedly admitting bythe
"pleadings that he has) any right of property or pos"session in the tract or parcel of land called the. Bat"ture, but that the said suit is carried on for the sole
"purpose of affecting the interest of a third party, to
"wit, of the United States, and of obtaining the pos"session from them." Whereupon sundry documents
were filed in support of the suggestion, and against it,
and the Plaintiff offered to consent that the United
States should nttervene in the cause, but the counsel
with the attorney for the United States replied that the
offer could not 'be accepted, because the United States
could not be made Defendants in any case. The motion of the attorney for the United States was thereupon

SUPREME COURT U. S,
-Z.VING5

WoN
v.
DoRGz.

Wos,

argued, and the Court having taken time to consider,
and having also granted a re-hearing, ultimately de
creed that the proceedings should be 6 finally stayed ;whereupon the Plaintiff sued out his writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the United States.
P B. Kny, for the Plaintiffin error, contended,
i. That the suggestion of the district attorney ought
not to have been received to stay the proceedings.
2. That the rights of the United States (if they had
any) could not have been injured by a decision in this
case.

S. That to protect the interest of the United States,

they had a clear adequate remedy by intervention, as
Inow and' used in the civil law.
I. A proceeding so novel and extraordinary, and so
pregnant wil~l misch vous consequences. ought to be
supported by clear law, or decided usage and practice.
If proceedings are to be stayed at the mere suggestion
of interest in the United States, it will be in the power
of the district attornev, at any time, to stay proceedings in any cause by such a suggestion.
There is neither statute law nor practice to justify
such a proceeding. nor can it be sustained by analogy
to thosy cases in which Courts of liw have sometimes
stay the proceedings at the sugestion of a third party., there is no case in which they have been stayed
upon the mere allegation of the 7nterest of such party, or
upon the mere suggestion of collusion,
It is only in ca-es where the testimony leads to inde.
cenry, an is contra bonos iporcs , or where the peace of
familie.s, and the happiness and reputation of individ~ars are put to hazard by actions founded upon wagers
made by indifferent persdns, and where the injured
party would he without remedy1 that the Court will in.
terfere to stay proceeding% as in the case. of Da Costa
o. Jones, Cozrp, 729, and Cox, v. Phi.liPs. Ca. Temp.
fardw, 1337

FEBRUARY TERNT 1813.
Here it is a mere suggesti -n of properly in the United .IVIZNGSToV
States, who, if they have ally right, have a remedy.
T.
That right, if any, cannot be affected by this suit.
DORGE-

2. Te question before the Court upon the dlmuz'rer Nols.
is, was the Defendantjustified in removing the Plaintiff-from his possession ? If lie was not, the Plaintiff is entitled to restoration to his possession with damages, but
tle. right of the United Stat s is not affected. If the
Defendant was justified, thvn there is an end of the
Plaintiff's case.. The judgment in this case cannot be
given in evidence against the United States. It is res
iter olios acta.
If this 66 suggestion",prevails, the Plaintiff is ruicd, because the United States are not suable, and lie has
no redress, however illegal the conduct of the officer who
removed him.
Wheiiever the United States have a right, they must
prosecute for the recovery of it. There is no obstacle
in the way It is every days practice. In a case of
trover for a ship between individuals, the United States
would not be permitted to stay proceedings uion a suggestion that the suit was collusive-that neither of the
parties had possession or property in the ship, but that
she was forfeited to the United States.
3. But the United States lhad a clear adequate remeny
to protect their rights by intervention, as known and
used in the civil law. In 2 Doinat 676,'the proceeding
by intervention is defined. The petition of intervention
ought to set out the interest of the party, with is
proofs; the pirties litigant are called upon to answer
and the party intervening is considered as Plaintifl*
This is what the Plaintiff offered to permit the United
States to do, but they refused, - because the United
6CStates could -not be inade Defendant;" whereas the process of intervention would have made them Plaintiff.
But the reason is obvious, intervention would have
obliged them to shew and establish their title, which
they could not do, and therefore they resorted to this
extraordinary mode of suggestion for the purpose of
avoiding a j.idicial investigation of their right.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LIVINGSTON

V.

The consequences of such a proceeding, if supported, are too serious and glaring not to be perceived by
the Court.

DORGE-

WOIs.

PINKNEY,

.'2ttorney General,

Stated that he did not appear for the United States, nor
for Dorgenois. The writ oferroris not against Dorgenois.9
but against the United States. Yet no citation bad been
served on the United States or their attorney. He appeared
as arnnuseurue, and objected to the Court's hearing ex
parMt affidavits to prove the value of the matter in dispute
to be more than 2,OOG dollars , but the Court o-ver-ruledhzs
objection, and heard the affidavits.
On a subsequent day, lie stated that lie should confine
las argument to two questions.
I. Has this Court any jurisdiction of the cause? Is
it before them ? and
2d. How shall it be disposed of?
i. The cause is not before this Court. The writ of
error has issued improvidently There is no authority
nor precedent for a writ of error in such a proceeding.
It is not a judgment, and a writ of error at common
law, as well as by statute, lies only to a final judgment.
This was not a final judgment, for the complaint is9
that the Court below reflused to pronounce a final judgment. This proceeding is not between the parties to
the suit. It was equally adverse to Dorgenois as to Livigston. It is not defended by Dorgenois. He opposed the motion, and had as good a right to do so as Livingston. He had a right to go on and get judgment
for Ins costs, if the law was on his side. If the motion
of the district attorney had failed, Dorgenois could not
have had a writ of error. Nor could the United States.
No person who is not a party or privy can have a writ
of eri'or If it be a right, it ought to be reciprocam.
There are no authorities directly in point, because the
case must be rare, but in analogous cases no writ of
error lies. The prayer for the benefit of clergy, which
intervenes and prevents the attainder, produces a final

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

583

stay of the proceedings, yet no writ of error lies, be- LIviNGsTRON
cause it was no judgment. The only remedy is a certi-T.
El.
Cro.
office.
crown
the
into
case
the
bring
orarn to
489. Long's case. 9 Viner, 476, pl. 2. sd. 480, pl. 13. DORqESo in the case of recusancy, where the conviction is by Noas.
proclamation, error will not lie, because there was no
judgment. So in the case of prohibition, error will not
lie for refusing a prohibition, consequently it will not
lie on the granting it. There is a strong analogy between that case and the present, which is in the nature
of a prohibition. I Salk. 236. So the refusal to grant
a new trial, or to continue a caue, &c. are not the
ground of a writ of error. L flenmng, 2202. * Cranch.
324. 2 Binney, 80, 93. 6 East, 633.
2. But if this Court is in possession of the cause, and
if the merits of the case are against the Plaintiff, the
Court canhave no motive to interfere, or to reverse the
proceedings.
The Plaintiff never could be entitled to recover. He
brought his action 18 months after the cause of action
accrued, and the general rule of the civil law is, that
it must be prosecuted within one year if the sole ground*
of action be the wilawflforce. There is only one exception, which is where the Defendant continues in the
possession thus unlawfully and forcibly acquired. If the
force be removed within the year, the action must be
brought withiin the year. The action in the civil kiw is
called Interdictum unted m. L. 1. ft. d. tit. de vt et vo amMata. 2 Pothzer, 103. Of possession and prescription, c.
6, § 2 5. 7 rothier'spostlmous ivorics, 258, 259, c.
13, art. 3.
The Plaintiff's own case shows, that the force was
more than ayear before his suit, and was discontinued
within the year. The Defendant was not in possession
when the suit was brought. But it is said that the limitation ought to have been pleaded, by analogy to the
common law. At common law it was first decided, that
if it appeared by the Plaintiff's declaration, that his
claim was within the statute of limitations,, it need not
be pleaded.
Afterwards it was held necessary to plead it, that the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
iivINGs- Plaintiff might have notice, and reply the e2tqptio9,
But in the civil law there are no exceptions, It is not
TON

0.
.DoR(nENOIS.

necessary to plead the limitation. If Dorgeiois. did
not take advantage of the limitation in his favor, it ie
evidence of collusion.
But without insisting on this defence; thjudtifieatioji
set up b) the Defendant is sufficient. This Court will
look into it to support-the proceedings, but not to reverse
them.
-The plea sets up the act of Congress, and the ordet
of the president. Every government causes its rightg
to be protected in the same way InAevery republic w6
find the same. It was 'so in Rome, Sparta, Athens,
&c. The act of congress was indispensible. Its sole
object was to guard against intrusions-to preserve the
status quo. The president is to exercise ajudicial powee
in deciding whether it be a case in which lie was to execute the law. Wherever he was of opinion that the
lands had been ceded to the United Statesy and that the
settlement thereof had not been .authorized by any laW
of the United States, and that a person had settledthereon since the 3d of March, 1807, it was his duty
to execute the law. The instructions to the marshal
stated, that the lands had been ceded to the United
'States, and that the settlement tht-reof had not-been
'authorized by any law of the United .States, but did not
state the fact that there. had been an intrusion into thse.
lands since the Sd of March, 1807 The president
might have had an inquest to ascertain that fact, but lie
Was not bound to do so. He left that fact tp be decided
by the marshal, who found that there had been such an
intrusion. If the president had jurisdiction to issue the
warront, the marshal was justified in obeying it, whether the president dedided right or wron-. If on the
face of the warrant the jurisdiction be asserted, althoughfatsely asserted, he is bound to obey He cannot say that the president has over-stepped his auti-ority The contrary doctrine would mke the inferior
the appellate tribunal. He is only to look to his pre.
cept. He could not inquire whether the United States
had title or not. The president could not-execute the
law personally He must act by inferior agents. An

FEBRUARY TERM

813.

589

office)-..hbo lis an execution, on the face of. which all
appears right, is justified.

VIVNGxs
TON

But another ground of objection to the justification ioItGEis, that the warrant does not state that the in t rusin NoIs.
was since." the act. rI[he president had a right to ini. quire, or to substitute an agent to-make the inquiry,
But the justification states the fact, that the lands were
ceded to the United, States, and that the Plaintiff hadintruded since the act. If the marshal w're not com.petent to ascertain that fact, yet it appears from the
other proceedings. If Gravier's .possession be Livingston's possession, then the fact is stated, that Gravier's
possession was since the act,
It is immaterial whet)ier the United States had title
or not. If the president had authority to decide, his
decision is conclusive as to the officer. It diffi-rs from
a common case where a man cafinot delegate an authority further than he has title. Independent of the question of title, the act -of congress has given the president a judicial authority to ascrtkain facts, and to issue
his warrant thereon.,
Another objection to the Plaintiff's claim is, that the
United States are not suable. The judgment would
have been nminmally against- the marshal, but would
have affected the title of the United States. The execution, upon the judgment in an action of interdicta
unde Vg, is conclusive as to the possession. If the agents
of government may be sued, all its rights may be subjected to judicial cognizance. The non-sual'ility of government prevents the judicial decision directly on the
property or rights of the government so as to affect permanently the interests of the United States. A contrary doctrine would he inconsiistent with sovereignly
There are cases of forfeiture, &c where the Unitedl
States are Plaintiffs, and there may,be cases in which.
they'may authorize suits to be brought against themselves,
It is immaterial whether the United States show then.'
title or not. It is sufficient if it be set up, or if that
question be necessarily in contest. Thet the right of
the United States was im contest appears from the pro,
VOL. tiT,

SUPREME-COURT U. S.
L.VINGSTON

v.

sident's message to congress, commumcating his proceedings relative to the batture, wich the Plaintilf
ha. produced in evidence.

DORGE-

Nois.

The case has been thus far considered, on the supposition that the plea of justification by the marshal' is
a good defence in law. But if it be an imperfect defence, will this Court send the cause back to be risked
by such 4defence, or to be abandoned or betrayed? It
is clear that the United States claim title, and this Court
will ta-e care of the interest of the United States.
It is said that the Plaiintiff was, willing that the- United States should vitervene. But who has authority to
intervene, and submit the rights of the United States to
judicial investigation? The president had no such right.
'But if 'they were to intervene, it must be as auxiliary
either to the Plaintiff or the Defendant. The judge
wag therefore driven to stay the proceedJngs. He could
not compel the Defendant to amend his defence. The
government could not intervene as an individual may
It cannot submit its rights as Defendant. Probably the
imperial code provided for the protection of the imperial rights. By analogy the United States ought to
have the same privilege. If, the defence be not good,
there. is no remedy for the United States but to stay the
proceedings.
Every Court'has such a discretion to stay proceedings when the feelings, &c. of third persons, are
injured, a fortion where the interests of tle United
States are concerned, even in cases where there is no
collusion. But where there is collusion, the right is
unquestionable.
If this Court should reverse the decision of thejudge,
it can only send the case back with directions to proceed in the cause.
HARPER, in

reply, observed,

That lie should be alarmed for himself and for his fellow
citizens of the United States, if it could be supposed
necessary to reply to many of the positions advanced
by the attorney general. They find their refutation,

FEBRUARY TERM 18i3.
not only in the universal understanding of the country,
but in the heart of every person who hears them.
This case has no aialogy to that of Cox, where the
suit was only a pretext to intermeddle with the do-mestic concerns of third persons, and to harrow up
their feelings.
The government of the United States has no greater
right to stay the proceedings in a suit between third
persons, than any other individual, and no individual
can stay the proceedings in such cases upon the mere
suggestion of interest or collusion, without becoming a
party to the suit. It is true that the United States cannot be brought into Court as Defendant in all cases,
but shidll it therefore come when it pleases, and interfere in private concerns ? It is sufficient that it can
seize what it pleases, and hold what it seizes, without
being compellable to account. 1ut it is the only civilized government that refuses to submit its rights to judicial decision.
The question of collusion, being a question of fact
only, he rested upon the argunent of the Appellant as
contained in his printed statement of the case.
The action tnterdiclhn unde vt, is a possessory action oily, and the only question is the forcible entry,
and its legality The title does not cone in question.
The only question is concerning theforce and the damages. It was the only action ie could hav'e brought.
If there lu.d been a question of title, he n ght have had
the actio mlilis with his possessory action. iE the United States iiad an interest, it ought to have been shewn.
In the case of thedirect taxes, president WASILINGTON did
not think that the dignity of the United States forbade
a ju;dicial investigation. Lie directed a case to be made
and argued at the xpense of the United States.
But the derence of the Appellee is wholly untenable.
It is no justification, The warrant of the president is
not authoiized by the act of congress, (,Afarch 3d, 1807,
Tol. 8, p. 317 ) 'rThe party to be ousted under the auihot ity of that law must be one who had taken posession since the 3d of March, I S07 It does not apply hi

1.IVVG-sTONi
T0.
ORGE-

Nois.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
uv1iNG9
ToN
10.

DORGE.
NoIs.

one who had recetwed peaceable possession from one who
was in peaceable possession befure and on that day Its
object was to prevent intruisiow by strangers into the
-vacantlands ceded by the treaty. It means an original
taking, xint receivin; a derioative possession. It must
appear also that these lands were ceded. But they were
not oeeded. The cession was only of 'vacant lands. But
the estate to which this al/uvzou had accrued, was in
possession of Gravier at the time of the treaty, and
had been in his possession, and in that of those under
whom he claimed. for more than 80 years. The alluvion had b,.en judicially decided to be the private property of Gravier by a competent tribunal, whose deci.
pion waq conclusive.
But there is another fatal objection to the defence,
which is, that the act of 1807 did not apply to any
.clauirs under French or Spanish grants. until the board
of commissioners appointed by virtue of the act of congress of 1805, -00l. 7, p. 291, 295. § -k, should have rejected them, or until they should be. rejected Oy the secretary of the. treasury, or by congress, to whom there
was a right of appeal. The report of this board of
commissioners was not made until January. 1[812, and
was not tilansmitted to congress by the secretary of the
treasury until November, 18IM, long subsequent to the
forcibie removai of the Appellant.
The defence ought to have averred that* this claim
had been submitted to the board of commissioners and
rcjected, &c.
It is sai( that the action interdichIMm 7ude -vt is an aninial action. But it is also stated in the books. that if
the spoliator remain in possession, it may be brought
at any time. The Plaintiff states the Defendant to be
in possession. and the fact is admitted by the Defendant. But it is said the truth of the fact is not so.
Y'.t it appears that the Defendant took possessiom by
f';'ce, and kept the Plaintiff out, and has not delivered
thl posession to any body else. The United States
diselaimed possession, The possession, therefore, is to
tie presumed to remain with the Defenuait.
ft is objected that a writ of error does not lie in such

FEBVIUARY TERM isis,

589

a case. It may be admitted that at common law this is ivNGsTON
not such a judgment as Niill support a writ of error.
V.
But in the civil law, -in equity, in admiralty and ecclesiastical cases, every decree or sentance of dismissal noRGEmay be appealed from. But it is said not to be a final Nois.
sentence, because the Court below may rescind it at any
time. A decree that a .udgment shall be finally staid
is a final decree, as much as a decree dismissing the
bill.
It is also objected, that if the cause be sent back, the
United States cannot have a hearing. But the United
States may intervene, which is a process analogous to
a bill of interpleader. It is not true that they cannot
intervene but as auxiliary to the Plaintiff or Defendant. This is shewn by Potnier, cited by the attorney
general. He speaks throughout of the. right of the
third person who intervenes. But if the United States
cannot intervene without .joinng one or the other party,
why not join the Dt-fendant who claims under the United States? If his. defence is imperfect, why not help
him'? If collusive, why not make a better ?
Even under the Roman civil law, the zmCi ron himself cannot by rescript affect the property of -a person
Code, tit. 4. Corp.. Tur cix.
wlio has not been heard
vol. 2, p. 258.
Arfarch i6th....The counsel for the Appellant dismissed
his writ of error, and prayed a nzanulamus nis. to the
judge of the District Court of Orleans in the nature of
aprocedenulo, which was granted.
,#Xandamus inst awarded.

OTIS v. BACON.
-March

ISM
12th.

Absent....ToDD, .
ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of the By

the 11th

state ot Massachusetts, in a case involving the construc- section of the

