SUPREME COURT U. S.
U.

STATES

W.
HUDSON

OO°W

without examining how far this consideration is appfIl
cable to the peculiar character of our constitution, it

& may be remarked that it is a principle by no means

.peculiar
.
to the common law. It is coeval, probably,
.'-withthe first fdrmation of a limited Government, belongs to a system of -unversal law, and may as well support the assumption of many other powers as those more
peculiarly acknowledged by the common law of England.
But if admitted as applicable to the state of things in
this country, the consequence would not result from it
which is here contended for. If it may communicate
certain im2plied powers to the general Government) it
would not follow that the Courts of that Government
are vested with jurisdiction over any particular act
done by an individual in supposed violation of thi peace
and dignity of the sovereign power. The 'legislative
authority of the Union -must first make an act a crime,
affix a punishment to itp and de6lare the Court that shal
have jurisdiction of the offence.
Certain implied powers must necessarily result to.
our Courts of-justice from the nature of their institution.
Biit jurisdiction of crimes against the state is not among
those powers. To fine for contempt-.-imprison for contumacy-inforce the observance of order, &c. are powers which cannot be dispensed with in a Court, because
they are necessary to thie exercise of all others and so
Var our Courts no doubt possess powers not immediately
derived from statute, but all exercise of ciminal jurisdiction in common law cases we are of opinion is not
within their implied powers.
ALEXANDER SHIRRAS, IQHINBLACIK, '7ILLIAM MILLI.Q_&N, WILLAM BLACKLOCK,

Fb.

13th.

& JOSEPH VERREES,
T.

JOHRN CAIG & ROBERT MITCHEL.
Absent ... WashIngton, justice.
A mortgage of
RO oteCrutCor o h itmto
of
bistyct
y
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the
land,
one who ha a Georgia, by Shirras.and others orignal Complainants,

FEBRUARY TERM-tma.
against Caig and Mitchel, original Defendants, ina suit

sHIR(nAs

miquityto foreclose a mortgage of a lot, hopses- and& OTHERS
wharf in Savanah, called Gairdner' wharf, which were
CAIG
in the possession of theDefendants.
MIiTCHEL.

The mortgage was made on the 1st of December, 1801, lega andeqosby Edwin Gairdner, in his own name, and also as at-' ta ble title toa
torney for the Defendant, Cag,.(but without any- atitho- moiety of the
rity from Caig so to do,) to secure the payment of 130,000
the pur
• which
ratge
sterling, for which E. Gairdner had, on the same day, portstocnexecuted a bond for himself and Caig.
Vey, pmses only
lus although
legal
right,

Ii the year 1796, this property had been pu~icased by he had aow-

James Gairdner, Edwin Gaidfier, and Robert Mitchel er, fr
as joint tenants, who took a conveyance from Levi Shef-

he"

held the rest
Hue of the lete
uitable

tall to themselves, by the description of James Gairdner,
Edwin* Gairdner and Robqrt Mitchel, merchants a
co-partners of the city of Savannah. The name of the estatein the
to sell his
firm was Gairdnersand .Mitchel. In 1799 this firm was land,
and convey
dissolved, and the business was carried on in Carlestok right also;
theby Edin Gairdneralone under the firm of Edwin; Gaird-mortgagor no.
hvmgafiected
ner and Co., and ty mutual consent; in December 1)799,
.9 1to
convey any
an entrywas made irethe bnoks of Gairdners and Nit- partofitunder
percliel, by James Cairdner, charging this property, to tife the
he other
oterr-r
account of Edwin Gairduer and Co. at the price of 20,0o0 son, although

dollars. In 1800, Edwin Gaii'nelr entered- into

-part_ his deed pur-

nersip, ithJohn Caig, tile Defendant, at- SavannaknvPotete
.the equ'table
under the firm of. Edwin Gairdner and Co..-under whole; and
wlich name lie continued to carry on business alone at title
not beingCharieston, and upon his books at that place, made an in the person
entry charging this property to the Savannah house wo, gave Ie
(consisting of htmself and, Caig) at an agreed price, 4 plat refer.
and the Savannah. -house by an entry on their books relto
tho
ded asi beipg
credited the same on the account of the Charleston house aunexd tit,
consisting of Edwin Gairdner alone,
but whichf was
never in fact

annexed, and

On the 7th of January, 1802, Ed\vmn Gairdner and was not re-,
with
John Caig dissolved their partnership at Savannah, corded
deed, afand a new firm was established consisting of Edwin the
fords no eviMit- denee to aid ot
and "the Defendant, Rpbert
Gairdner, John
¢ Caig
1 inde
•thedescripuior
chel, under the name of Gairdner, Cazg and .Mitchel, who ,fthe properby their articles of co-partnership under seal, agreed ty mentioned
the deed.
to take the property in question, at a valuation and hold in
A person can
it as
iastheir joint property
zot he erhsrpd

SUPREME COURVU. S.
surRRAS
OrEHRS

Previous to this, viz. in March, 1800, Mitchel had

by deed conveyed his third part of this property to EdV0.
win Gairdner and Jolin, Caig, as joint tenants, and at
CAIG & the time of executing the mortgage (viz. December 1,
IITCHEL. 1801) Edwin Gau'dner had full
power and authority
,vith
fraudu- from James Gairdner to sell and convey hs share of
lently secret- the
ing a deed whu

property

places it upon

Subsequent to the mortgage, viz. on the 27th of July,
Edwin Gairdner, as attorney for James Gairdner,
Itis not neces- by deed conveyed to Mitchel one third of the property,
ary to the va- and by his own deed of the same date, he -conveyed one

record as soon

'as

the law requrns.

80i2,

lidity of a

mortgage that sixth of the property to Caig, who had before receivit should truly ed a conveyance of one other sixth from Mitchell.
state the debt
it is intended

tosecure;but
it shall stand
as a security
for'the real

These tvo'ldst deeds were proved and recorded on the
l4th of September, 1802.

The mortgage was .proved on the l0th, and recorded
the 17th of September, 1802.
whether they
By the law of Georgia9 deeds of bargain and sale are
existed at the to be rec6rded in 42 months-and by a law of 4768,
date'of the
mortgage, or every mortgage and deed recorded within ten days after
arose afttr- it's executibn, shall have preference of other deeds and
the faiut mortgages, not recorded within that period.
equitabhl
clums
ot

the, on

snortkagees,

the mortgage,

before notice
At the time of executing the mortgage, therefore, the
of the Defendants equity. legal title of three sixths of the "propefty was -in Edwin
Gairdner, and according to the book entries of the several co-partnerships he was also equitably entitled to the
same. The legal title of two sixths was inJames Gairdner, and of the other sixth in Caig, who, according to
the book entries was equitably entitled to three sixths;
so that although Edwni Gairdner had a legal power to
sell and transfer James Gairdner's two sixths, yet he
was bound in equity to transfer them to Caig.
The complainants in their bill claim the %whoIe.They
state that. Edwin Gairdner-was the real bona fide owner
of the property-that the book entrites were made only to
give a credit to the Savannah house, and were without
consideration-that the Savannah house was onlr to hold.
it in trust for Edwin Gairdner during the co-partnership.
That Edwin Gairdner became bankrupt on the Sd of
1November, 4802, has received his certificate of dispharge

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

and that two of the complainants, Blacklock and-Verrees, siii RR AS
were duly appointed his assignees. That Caig and & OTHERS

I"
Mitchel, and the firm in which they are partners, are
CAIG &
still largely indebtdd to Edwin Gairdner, who.is also .IITCHEL
very largely indebted to the Complainants. And they
pray that all conveyances, under which. Caig and Mitchel claim to hold possession of the property, may'be
declared void and may be cancelled-that the property
may be sold and the proceeds applied towards payment
of the debts due to the Complanants-and for general
relief.

The answers of Caig and Mitchell, the Defendants,
do not admit that any thing was fue by E. Gairdner to
the Complainants on the Ist of December, 1801, the date
of the mortgage, and suggest that if any thing was dc
it has since been paid off or oTherwise settled. That
Caig was made a party to the bonnl and mortgage without his authority and consent. That the hond and
mortgage were carefully kept secret until the 13th of
September, 1802. That it was not a regular transaction
and ought not to avail against the Defendants, who are
bona fide purchasers.
They set forth the several co-partnerships and entries
in the books and aver that they and all the parties consulered them as good transfers of the property which
was always holden and considered as stock in trade.
They deny all private, secret, or confidential trust for
the benefit of E. Gairdner. They aver, that they believe, that at the date of the mortgage the Charleston
house was indebted to the Savannah house, after allowmg credit for the property in question.
In this state of the cause, the Defendants, CaIg and
Mitchel, flied a cross bill against the Complainants,
Shirras and others, alleging secret transactions between
them and E. Gairdner, and praying a discovery. They
charge that the execution of the bond and mortage was
an act of hurry and despair, in the confusion and embarrassment of entangled circumstances, and at the eve
of one of the greatest and most distressing bankruptcies.
That the deeds were not signed until some weeks or
months after their date. That no title papers were
ahown to the mortgageesp [they being all in the hands

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SHIRRAS
OTHERS

&

T.

CAIG
%IITCHL.

W

of Caig at Savannah] nor any authority from Caig to

convey his interest. That the mortgage Was taken
without reflection or previous contemplation 4s to the

-security intended to be given, but as the last
hope of
saving or securing something from a person
on the

eve
of insolvency That the bond and mortgage were not
executed for advances made, or money lent on the seeurity, or hope of security arising from the mortgage,
but with the intent to indemuiify the mortgagees for endorsements at the banks in South Carolina for E. Gairdner, and for other collateral securities entered into for
him, all which-were settled and discharged by the exertions of E. Gairdner, and the resources he was then
enabled to bring into activity That there is no money
due on the bond, or on the consideration for which the
bond was given. That all the obligees have been fully
paid, satisfied and indemnified, without having recourse
to the mortgaged premises, and that the mortgage is
kept up for speculating purposes, and to oppress Caig
and Mitchel, or to cover some transaction between E.
Gairdner and one of the obligees, subsequent to the execution of the mortgage and which has no rdIation to the
same. That the mortgage was concealed from Caig and
Mitchel for fear of injuring E. Gamrdner's credit, and was
hot delivered to the mortgagees till some time before it was
recorded, and was not recorded until Caig and Mitchel
had paid a valuable consideration for two-thirds of the
property and were in the quiet possession thereof, with
the knowledge of the mortgagees. They claim title to
two-thirds of the property under the various book entries of the several firms.
The bill then seeks a discovery of the day, and consideration on which the bond and mortgage w'ere really
executed, -and whether the mortagees had not notice of
the claim ofCaig and Mitchel. Whether the mortgagees
gave notice of the mortgage to tliem, and requires Shirras and others to disclose the real debts, together -with
the particulars thereof, actually due from E Gamrdner,
-to each of them, at the date of the mortgage. It prays
that the mortgage may be decreed to be fraudulent and
void as to Caig and Mitchel, and for general relief.
The separate answers of the several Defendants,
Shirras and others, to the cross bill, set forth minmuetely

FEBRUARY TER14 '18.

their several claims against'E. Gairdner, and ,aver that SHIRRAS
the monies loaned and"responsibilities incurred were & OTHERS

upon the faith of the mortgage-except Win. Blacklock,
who did not know thkt he was included in the mortgage
protill some time after its dat6. Black in his answer
mortgage,
in
the
to
referred
plat
the
oath
on
duces
-which he says had remained with him ever since the execution.of the mortgage.

They all admit that Caig ,and Mitchel were not notified of the mortgage, and that they knew of no authority
from Caig to E. Gairdner to incumber his share of the
property They admit they did not see any title papers, and that they did not require them, 'having a per.fect donfidence in the representations and character of
Edwin Gairdner. They deny that they-had any knowv;.
ledge of any transfer to Caig and Mitchel, except that
E. Gairdner stated that Caig held one sixth. They admit that the mortgage was kept secret until the i0th
September, 1802, lest it should injure the credit of the
jnortgagors. They aver that it was executed on the day
of its date or within a very few days afterwards, and
was not retained by E. Gairdner, but immediately delivered to the Defdndant, Black. The testimony in the
cause related merely to the authentication of the anstruments, and the entries upon the books, and to the balance of the accounts bet%-een the Charleston and the
Savannah house, and tending to prove that the Savannah
house was considerablf indebted to the Charleston house
at the date of the mortgage.
In May, 1807, the Circuit Court, consisting of Juag
es Johnson and Stevens, gave the following opznzon,
"In the great confusion of legal and equitable inter
est which exist in this -se, the mind can resort to no
other means of making a just discrimination, but that of
recurring to the original state of the interests of the several parties and following -their respective portions
through the several changes of property which resulted
from subsequent transactions.
By the conveyance from Levi Sheftall to James
Gamrdner, Edwin Gairdner, and Robert Mitchel, edch
acquired a fee simple in one third of the property in
question:

t.

CAIG &
ITCHEL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SHIRRAS

&

OTHERS

V.
CAITG 8'
MIITCH EL.

In legal language they -were eaca seizcd per my and
per tout of a third part in joint tenancy. The third pari
.of James Gairdner never was legally conveyed, until the

deed of July, i802 by Edwin, attorney for James Gairdner, conveying it to Robert Mitchel. With regard
therefore to that third, and the one sixth conveyed by
Mitchel and Caig, making up a moiety of the wholoe
there can be no, dQubt that the Complainants are not entitled to recover. Both law and equity are on the side of
the Defendants. The only difficulties that exist, arise
•in relation to the one sixth conveyed by Mitchel to Edwin Gairdner and by him conveyed to Caig, and the remaining third 9friinally vested in Edwin Gairdier.
With regard to these propositions the Complainants
are in possession of the legal right, find the question is,
how far are the Defendants relieved in equity
It is contended that this Court ought not to aid the
Complainants, on several grounds.
:1 Because this prop.erty ought to be considered as a
part of the co-paritnership funds of the first firm of
Gairdner, Caig and Mitchel, and of E. Gairdner and
Co.-and nteither co-Iartner is at liberty to alienate his
share until the debts of those concerns are discharged,
and their balances adjusted.
2. Because the amounts claimed by the several mortgagees were for loans ahd assumptions not existing at
the time of the mortgage, but incurred afterwards, -with
a small exception.

a. Because by the articles of co-partnerslup, the property is legally pledged to the last concern of Gairdner
Caig and Mitchel, and this instrument as well as tha
conveyance.of one sixth to Caig from E. Gairdner, are
entitled to a preference to the mortgage, in consequence
of the mortgagee's having neglected to record their mortgage, and thereby to put others on their guard.
On the first of these grounds we remark, there ave
many "cases in which real property may be pursued as
part of a co-partnership .tock, but it is only in the hands
of legal representaliveg &ncases of descent, bankruptcy,

Vt8a.
FEBRUARY TERN
&c. but not where a legal alienation has been made or SHMIRAS
the property is unaffected by articles of co-partnersiup. & OTHES
T.

With regard to the 2d and 3d grounds, we think them bAIG &
of much importance. This Court will certainly support MITCHELa,
a mortgage when there exists no actual debt, if the mortgagee is unter any liability or engagement which may
ultimately subject him to loss. or the payment of money
for the mortgagor; such, for instance, as the indorsement
of notes, the renewal of notes originally indorsed, or an
arbitration or administration bond, or other undrtaking from which a debt only may be incurred. But it is
evident that some bounds ought to be §et to this mode
of mortgaging on contingencies, especially when the.
mnortgagee retains an absolute unresrained option, whether the mortgagor shall or shall not be his debtor; when
he is under, no legal or moral obligation to make loans
'or assume a liability in his behalf. But as we do not
mean to found our decree in this case on this ground,
we shall not now attr ipt to draw the line. The subject
is a very delicate one.
On the 3d ground the Court feel themselves compelled
to decree in favor of the Defendants.
The Complainants, by not inakingklnb to the -world
the existence of tns viwrtgage, have lost their right to the
aid of thts Court iu obtaining a foreclosure in their behalf.
The Defendant, Caig, ought not to lose the benefit of the
conveyance of the one sixth executed to him by Gairdner. He was legally proprietor of the one sixth atid,
by book entries, equitably, of another sixth.
We consider the acknowledgment of interest in him by
Gairdner upon the face of the mortgage as sufficient notice, to Complainants, of his interest both legal and equitable. This alone would be sufficient to entitle him to
the fav2r of this Court, independently of his having become purchaser afterwards of th legal title without notice of the mortgage. With regard to the remaining
3d, we consider the articles of co-partnership, accompanied with the payment of the consideration, as a covenant to stand seized to the use of the firm, and entitled
to a precedence to the mortgage because of the latters not
ha'ving been recorded,
VOr. VII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The co-partnerstherefore, willbe entitled to a preference as to Ggirdners 3d, both as to payment of creditors
v.
of the last house of G. C. & M. and for the satisfaction
CAIG & of any demand which the co-partnerslup may have upon
MITCHEL. him. Subject to their claims the Complainants will be
entitled to relief."

sumIRAs
& OTHERS

In May 1808, the Circuit Court, made the following
final decree.
",The Court, refering to the interlocutory decree of

May term i807, order, adjudge and decree, that the bill

he dismissed with costs as against the Defendants, John
Caig and Robert Mitchel, as to the two third parts of the
mortgaged premises, and that the bill be sustained as to
one third of the mortgaged premises, reserving a preference on the said third part of the premises, both as to the
payment of the creditors of the late house of Gairdner,
Caig and Mitchel, and for the satisfaction of any demand
which the co-partnerslup may have upon him, said Gairdner."1
To reverse this decree, the present writ of error wa.s
sued out by Shirras and others..
C. LEn,for Plaintiffs -ti error *
The mortgage ought to avail the mortgagees to tie ex
tent of the nower and tnterest of the mortgagor.
Edwin Gairdner bad the legal estatb of three sixths,
in himself, and had full power and authority from James

Gairdner to dispose of, sell and convey the two sixths,
whereof the legal estate remained in him. So that Edwin Gairdner's power and interest, extended to five
sixths. It is true lie omitted to refer to his Power of
Attorney in making the mortgage, but this defect may
When this case was called, and before it was opened, C. Lee suggeSa-d, that it would be desirable to wait for a fuller Court, as tle Judge who
rendered the decree might think proper to retire from. the bench.
Livingston, J. That practice has been abandoned.
Johnson, J. We have agreed among ourselves, not to excuse the Judge
who passed the decree.

FEBRUARY TERM 1813M

be supplied in a Court of Fquity. 10. Tod. 86-Sir Ed-

SHIRIAS

'ward Cleer's case, cited by Ch. . Parker, 6. Co. 17 (b) & OTHERS
IV.
S. C.-3. Leavnz. 372.-2. P Will. 490. Toilet. v. Tollet.-2. P' Will. 623. 1. Ca. in Chancery 263. Smith T. CAIG &
.Ishtmi.-I. Br C. C. 368. Wade v. Poget -2. P Will. MITCHEL.
222 Coventry v. Co-entry.-4-. Str 596. 601. S. C. 1. Br
C. C. 462. Jackson -v. Jackson.-.flmbler 640. 68I.-Hob.
165. 41. Vcz.jun. 63. -7

Vez. 567.-10. 'Pez. 2,6,

6. East. i05.-Carth.-o127
Therc was no obligation upon the mortgagees to prove
or record the deed sooner than they did. The law allows twelve months.-Neither of the deeds was recorded
within ten days after its date, and tierefore neither can
claim a preference under that law.
It is no objection that the mortgage was made to indennify against future indorsements. 3. Cranch, 7$.
U. S. v. Nooe.
If the power from James bad been given to a third
person, lie would have conveyed to Edwin-but the
power being to Edwin, le could not convey to himself,
and the law will consider the etuitable title, united with
the power, as a legal conveyance to him.
The creditors of Edwin, who are the mortgagees, are
superior in equitv to Caig or Mitchel, who never paid
any thing for the property, and who are indebted to Edwin at this time, and who, if so indebted, would, if necessary, be decreed, in equity, trustees for the imortgagees, rather than they should lose their debts.
The entrics on the books conveyed no legal title to the
property .-. ut if' it is to be considered as stock in trade
and -therefore liable to be transferred by book entry,
E. Gairdner, being a partner, had a right to sell giid
dispose of the whole pa rtnerslup effects.
IIA

LR-Contra.

It is admitted that the mortgage transferred all the legal and equitable estate of Edwin Gairdner, but not of
James Gairdner. If an Attorney means to convey the
righLts of his constituent, he must speak in the name of

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sHmaRs
OTHERS

&

his principal-Edwin had only one half-the other half

belonged to Caig and Mitchel.

10.
The plat not having been recorded with the deed, the
cAir, & descriptio4 of the property is imperfect-it can convey at
iircHms. most, only Gairdner'sWharf-and not the lot wlch lies
----at a distance on the other side of the street.
The articles of co-partnership between E. Gairdner,
Caig and Mitchel,being under seal, operate as a conveyance by way of covenant to stand seizdd. Each party
covenants to stand seized to the use of the firm.
The Complainants admit that they concealed the mortgage, and held it up, to prevent injury to the credit of
Edwin Gairdner-and they contend they had a right so
to do.
Although they may have such a right at law, yet they
have not i equity. Where the mortgagee does any
thing to induce a belief, that the mortgagor has still a
right to encumber the property (such as suffering him to
retain the title papers whereby he gains a false credit)
the first mortgagee shall be postponed to the second, who
is deceived thereby So in this case the deeds to Caig
and Mitchel are to be preferred to the mortgage which
was thus concealed. 1. Fonb. 153.
Besides, the mortgage untruly recites the whole transaction. The bond was altogether fictitious.
It was calculated to impose upon the world. The
mortgage was in truth made only to cover future contingent responsibilities.
This property is to be considered as part of the joinz
funds of Gairdner, Caig and Mitchel, and liable in the
first place to the debts of that firm. The separate creditors of Edwin Gairdner can only claun his share after•
payment of all the joint debts.

P B. KEY, sit reply.
It cannot be denied that, at the date of the mortgage,
Edwin Gairdner had a legal estate in one half of the
inortgaged.premises.

FEBRUARY TERM

1812.

The mortgage, therefore, to that extent, is good, un- SI(IRRAS
less it want some formality, or unless the Defendants & OTHERS
W.
have a prior title at law, or some prior equity of which
the Complainants had notice previously to the mort- CAIG &

gage.

No want of fgrmality, nor prior legal estate are sug
gested, nor can it be contended that Mitchel or Caig
had any prior equity as to one half the property. Mitchel in his answer expressly disclaims any interest prior
to the mortgage.
It is indeed suggested that this real estate is to be considered as part of the joint stock in trade of the firm of
Edwin Gairdner. &.Co. of Savannah, consisting'of E.
Gairdner and John Caig; and one partner cannot dispose of any part of the joint funds to his own use, without
the consent of the other partner.
But neither at law, nor in equity, will real estate he
considered as stock in trade, so as to alter the nature of
the estate, unless there be some express agreement for
that purpose. S. Br C. C. 199, 200. Thorntonv. Dixon.
In the present casethere were no articles of co-partnership prior to the mortgage, nor any agreement that the
real estate should be converted into stock in trade. 5.
ez. 189. Smithyv. Smith.-In order to make partnershlp
stock of real estate, it must be purchased with partnership funds, or there must be an agreement at the time. of
purchasing that it shall be used and invested as partner.
ship. stock.
But in the present case nothing was paid by the firm
of E. Gairdner & Co. of Savannah; for, this property,
nor was there any agreement converting it into stock.
The-firm of Gairdner, Caig & Mitchel was formed after the mortgage, and therefore whatever interest theytook in this property was subject to the mortgage.
There can he no doubt that the mortgagees bad a right
under such a mortgage, to recover in equity, all advances-made upon the credit of the mortgage subsequent
to its -date, and before notice of junior incumbrafces,
and recording the subsequent incumbranceis not of itself
notice. Powell on Jfort. 229, 230, 285.

IXTCHL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SIIIRRAS

As tb tle objection that one of the mortgagees was not

& oTiiRs a creditor at the date of the mortgage, and did not become a creditor upon the faith of the mortgage, it is
T.
ort. 275, that if one purchase in
CIG & laid down in Powell ont
MITCHEL the name of another without any authority to do so, yet
if lie afterwards agree to it, lie makes the former his
agenit ab. initio.
' he Complainants therefore, are entitled to a decree
for a foreclosure of one half of the property described in
the mortgage, and for the recovery of all sums advanced
on the faith of the mortgage before the mortgagees had
notice of the second incumbrance.
Feb. 17, .8l the Judges (except Washington, .4) being
present,
MARnSIALL,

eh. J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows
This is an appeal from a decree rendered by the Circuit Court for the district of Georgia.
Shirras and others, the Appellants, brought their bill
to foreclose the equity of redemption on two lots lying
in the town of Savannah, alledged to have been mortgaged to them by Edwin Gairdner. The deed of mortgage is dated the first of December, 1801, and purports
to be a conveyance from E dwin Gairdner and John
Caig, by EdNin Gairdner his attorney in fact. Edwim
Gairdner not appearing to have possessed any power to
act for Johm Cag, the conveyanice, as to hm, -.is void,
and could only pass that interest which was possessedby
Gairdner himself. The Court will proceed to inquire
what that interest was.
It appears that, on the. 17th May, 1796, the premises
were conveyed to James Gairdner, Edwin Gairdner and
Robert Mitchel, merchants & c0-partners of the city of
Savannah.
In 1799, this partnership was dissolved, and, in December in the same year, James Gairdner made an Qn* JUvoZ WASHINGTON was prevented 'by indispositio, from atteading o1
te 13th, 14thk 15th, 17th aud 18M of Febiuarv.

FE3RUARY TERM- i812.
try on the books of the company charging tiPs property SHIUrRAS,
to Edwin Gairdner & Co. of Charleston, at the price of & OTHERS
20,00 dollars. This firm consisted of Edwin Gaird1o.
ner'alone. James Gairdner also executed a power of CAIG &
attorney authorizing Edwin Gairdner to sell and con- MITCHEL.
vey his interest in this and other real property.
In March, 180f, a partnership was formed between
Edwin Gairdner and John Caig to carry on trade in Savannah, unlder the firm of Edwin Gairdner & co., and
in the same month, Robert Mitchel conveyed his one
third of the lots in question to Edwin Gairdner and
John Caig.
About the same time it was agreed between thehouse
at Charleston and that in Savannah to transfer the Savannah property to the firm trading at that place, and
entries to that effect were made in the books of both companes; and possession was delivered to Edwin Gairdner
and Co. of Savannah.
Such was the state of' title in December, 1801, when
the deed of mortgage bears date.
The Plaintiffs claim the whole pgoperty, or; if
not the whole, five sixths, because they suppose Edwin
Gairdner to have been equitably entitled to. his own
third, to that of James Gairdner, and to half of the third
of Robert Mitchel. But for this claim the Court is of
opinion that there can be no just pretension, because
lie did not affect to convey by virtue of the power from!
James Gairdner-lie did not affect to pass the interest of
James Gairdner, but to pass the estate of John Caig
and himself. Consequently thg power of attorney may.
be put out of the case, and the conveyance could only
operate on his own legal or equitable interest.
In. law, lie was seized under the original deed, and
the deed from Robert Mitchel of one undivided moGle.
of the property.
Under the varius agreementaand entries on the books
,of the firms at Charleston and Savannah whih have
been stated, Ins equitable interest was precisely equal
to his legal interest. In law and equity leiheld one

SUPRAVIE .COURT U. S.
sHrmiAs moiety of the premises in question. The other moiety
& OTHERS was in John Caig. To one sixth Caig was legally enti-V.
tled by the conveyance from Robert Mitchel, and to
CIMG & two sixths he was equitably entitled by the agreement
MITCHEL. with Edwin Gairdner and the consequent entries on the
----

books.

Of the equitable interest of Jthn Caig the mortgagees
.vere bound to take notice9 because the purchaser of an
equitable interest, purchases at his peril, and hequires
the property burdened with every prior equity charged
upon it,' because the deed itself gives notice of Caig's title, andbecause Caig was in possession of the property
The mortgage deed of December,' i801, could not,
then, in law or equity, pass more than one moiety of the
property it mentions.
A question arises on the face of the deed respectiig
the extent of the property comprehended in it. The
Plaintiff's contend that both lots are within the description; the Defendants that only the wharf lot is conveyed.
The property conveyed is thus described-All that
6lotofland, hduses and wharfs in the city of Savannah
" as is particularly described by the annexed plat, and
its generally known by the name of Gairdner's wharf."
The plat was not annexed, nor was it recorded with
the deed. It is, however, filed as an exhibit in the cause.
and appears to be a plat of part of the town of Savannah,
bncluding the lot onwhich Gairdner's wharf was, and
also one other lot belonging to the same persons, which
was designated as No. 6, and which does not adjoin the
property on which the wharves are erected.
The words descriptive of the property intended to be
conveyed do not appear to the Court to be applicable to more.than the wharf lot. The word ',lot" is
in the singular number, the term "houses" is satisfied by the fact that there are houses on the wharf
lot, and there is no evidence in the cause, nor any
reason to believe that lot No. 6 was "6.generally known
,"by the name of Gairdner's wharf." The Coui't,
therefore, cannot consider that lot as comprehended
within the conveyance.

FEBRUARY TERM/IS2.
, The mortgaged property is in possession,of the Defen- snmsks
-dants, Caig and Mitchel, who derive their title thereto & o mBn;

m the.following manner.

V.
GAIVV&

On the 7th of January, 1802, a new partnership was MITCHEk.
formed between Gairdner, Caig and Mitchel, and, by .
.
the artiCles of co-partnery, which are under seal, the Savannah property is declared to be stock in trade, and, an
entry was made on the books of the old firm transferring
this property to -the new concern. On the, i2th of the
same month, the co-partnership of Gairdner and Caig
was dissolved.
On the 27th of July, 1802, by deeds properly executed,
ohiS third of the property became vested in John Caig,
and one other third in Robert Mitchel.
On the 3d of November, 1802, Edwin Gairduer-became a bafnkrupt; and this bill is brought by his mortgagees and assignees.
The claim to foreclose is resisted by Caig and Mitchel, because, they say,
'*it. The mortgage was not executed at the time. it
'bears date, but long afterwards, and on the eve of bankruptcy.
-ad. That the transaction is not bona fide, them being
no real debt, nor any money actually advanced-. by the
mortgagees.
3d. That the mortgage was kept secret, instead of being committed to record.
htb.That the whole transaction is totally variant -from
that stated in the deed.
They therefore claim the property for the creditors of
Gairdner, Cak.g and MitcheL '
ist. From the testimony.in the cause it-appears that
the deed, if not executed on the day, was executed about
the day of its date, and that Gairdner., at the tbne,.wao
-believed toae solvent.
VOL. I.
8

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IS IRRAS 2d. It appears, also, that the mortgage was executed,
& OTHERS In part, to secure the payment of money actually due at
V.
the time, and, in part, to secure sums to be advanced,
CAIG & and to indemnify some of the mortgagees for lialiities to
BIUTCHEL.

be incurred.

3d. The mortgage is dated the ist of December, 1801,
and was recorded in September, -1802.
By the laws of Georgia, a deed is valid if recorded
within twelve months, but any deed recorded within ten
days after its execution takes pref.rence of deeds not recorded within that time, or previously on the record.
It appears to the Court, that neither negligence, nor
that fraud which is inferred from the mere fact of omitting to place a deed on record, can, witli propriety, be
inputed to the person who has used all the dispatch
which the law requires. If subsequent purchasers without notice, sustain an injury within the time allowed for
recording a deed, the injury is to be ascribed to the law,
not to the individual who, has complied with its requisition.
In this case the subsequent purchasers might have
-proceeded to record their deeds within ten days, and
have thereby obtained the preference they claim, but
they have failed to do so. -They are themselves chargeable with the very negli.Rgence which they ascribe to their
adversaries; and, were they to be preferred, the Court
would invert the well established rule of law,, and postpone, under similar circumstances, a-prior to a subsequent deed.
4th. It is true that the real transaction does not appear on the face of the mortgage. The deed purports
to secure a debt of 30,000!. sterling due to all the mortgagees. It was really intended to secure different sums,
due at the time from particular mortgagees, advances
afterwards to be made, and liabilities to be incurred to
an uncertain amount.
It is not to be denied, that a deed, which misrepresents
the transaction it recites, and the consideration on wbich
it is executed, is liable to suspicion, It must susta a

FEBRUARY TERM,8m.
rigorous examination. It is,-certainly, always advisable sRuAsAs
fairly and plainly to state the truth.
& OTAERS
IV.

But if, upon investigation, the real 'transaction shall CAIG &
appear to be fair, though somewhat variant from that mrrcHni.
which is described, it would seem to be unjust and unprecedented to deprive the person claiming under the
deed,.of his real equitable rights, unless it be in favor of
a person who has been, m fact, injured and deceived by
the misrepresentation.
That cannot have happened in the present case.
There is the less reason for imputing blame to the
mortgagees, in this case., because the deed was prepared
by the mortgagor himself, and executed without being
inspected by them, so far as appears in the case.
It is, then, the opinion of the Court that the Plaintiffs,
Shirras and others, have a just title, under their mortgage deed, to subject one moiety of the lot, or parcel of
ground, commonly known by the name of Gairdner's
Wharf, to the payment of the debts still remaining due
to them, which were either due at the date of the mortgage, or were afterwards contracted upon its faith, either by advances actually made or incurred prior to the
receipt of actial notice of the subsequent title of the Defendants, Caig and-Mitchel, and that the decree of the
Circuit Court of Georgia, so far as it is inconsistent
with this opinion, ought to be reversed.
Thefollooing zs the decree of this Court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court, that the
deed of mortgage in the proceedings mentioned, and
dated on the Ist of December, 1801, is' in law, a valid
conveyance of one moiety of thaf lot of land, houses
and Wharves in the City of Savannah, which was generally known by the name of Gairdner's Wharf, being
the parcel of ground lying between the river and the
street, and that the mortgagees in the said deed mentioned, are entitled to foreclose the equiV of redemption
m the said mortgaged property, and to obtain a sale

STrPREMiE-,COURT. V S.
sHmitAs thereof, and to apply the proceeds of the said sale to tha
Dayment of what remains unsatisfied of their respective
v.
debts, which were either due at the date of the mort.
C41G & gage, or have been since contracted, either on account
MITCHEL. of monWs advanced, or liabilities incurred prior to their
receiving actual notice of the title of the Defendantsi
John Caig, and Robert Mitchel. And the decree of the
Circuit Court for the District of Georgia, so fares-it is
inconsistent with this opiniong is reversed and annulled,
and in all other things is affirmed, and the -cause is re.
manded to the said Circuit Court for the District of
Georgia, that further proceedings may be bad thereio
according to equity
& OTHERS

SCHOONER PAULINA'S CARGO
Feb.

THE UNITED STATES.

15th,

Absent...5Washungton, justice.
The d section
of the act of
congress of the

!808, whaeh

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district ot

Rh

Rhode Island.

The schooner Faulinaand cargo were seized and li-

prohibited the belled by the collector of
trans.shpsisaent
of goods that the cargo was laden

the port of Newport, alleging
on board, within the district of
from one yes- Newport, between the Ist of June and the last of July
;elt, another, in the year 1808, in the night.season, without a permit
did not intilude
the cw. n'a from the collector, and without the inspection of the proper
vessel lading revenue offwers. and contrary to the 2d section -of the
anport
br

Craft,
kc-

46 act

of Congress, entitled c A8n act iu addition to the
is act entitled an act laying an embargo on all ships and

The 9d sect.
6 'vessels in the ports and harbors of the United States and
of the actof
congress o1the " the several atts supplemenlarJthereto, andfor-oterpug.25th of April. " poses," passed the 25th of Apri4 1808, and contrary ta
1808, did not
require a per- the 50th section of the act to regulate the collection ofiditties,

mit to ladiany

tho.izethe
forfeiture and
condemnation
of the vessel or

2d of Jatci,i799. 'Inthe District Courtne vessel and cargo were both ordered to be restored.
c. passed the

Upon the appeal i

cargo, for lad- had

the Circuit Court the Libelant

leave to amend hIs libel, by stating that on the Wa-

