0

SUPEBE COURT. U S,

WALLEI

I~13.

vo

WILLIAMS.

klarch 17tIL

Absent....LivwiNSTox, TODBr.'an -TORY, J.
crie,
of TenCourt cibiuit

ERROR
A

t6 the Circuit Court for the district of

nessee, as a East Tennessee, in a suit in equity, in wich Joseph
Ccrt o'eq ailliams on the 15th of November, 1799, brouglit his

complaint against Elisha Wallen and John Williams, whereby lie stated that the Defendants and
in the year 1779 entered into a co-partnership
in the enternng of lands in the land office for the sale of
lands in that part of the state of North Carolina which
now lies within'the district of East Tennessee, and
that each party was, on demand, to pay his proportion
of tle money due to the state upon the entries, to the
party who should advance it and that iW-any party so
failed to pay his proportion, lie shouhl forfeit his share
of the lands entered, and should cease to be a partner.
That Joseph Williaems,. the Complainant, paid the whole
of the morley due to the tate for the lands entered, and
that John Williams, one of the Defendants, not having
paid any, thing, sold his sjuare of the lands to the other
Defendant, Wallen. who had notice that nothing had
been paid by John Willians.
ahllen obtained patents,
upon this assignment of John Williams, for two tracts
of 6-0 acres each, and one t.or 410. The latter tract of
ao acres lie sold to a purchaser without notice; but lie
still held the other two tracts. That the Complainant
had demandeid from Wallen payment of John Williams's
proportion of the money due t the state, which Wallen
refused to pay Tme Defendant in his answer relied in
p art on the statute of limitations.

warid a writ of hill of

hab.
facas
po.sessionem
to nfoN
ecire.

ite others

The facts bem proved to the satisfaction. of thejudgeA lie decreed that " the said Elisha W4llen :be di.
"vested of all the right, title, interest. property ani
"c claim which lie had, or has, to the said two trac'ts of
4 640 acres; and each of them, and that all the right,
"6title, interest, property and claim of, in and to said
"two tracts of land and each of them, antd every part
6and parcd thereof, be vested in the said Complainant,
"Joseph Williams, his heirs and assigns forever, to

FEBRUARY TERM. iSiS.
fhavej hold, occupy, possess and enjoy the same and w it.E
v.
"ceachand every part thereof, '*ith their hereditanients
- and- appurtenances against the said' Elisha Wallen, WlIMl
6"his heirs and assigns forever.' And it was further
decreed that t6i Defendant, Wallen, should -pay to the
Complainant the sum of 8 593 33 i-3, the value of the
tract of 41,0 acres as found by the jury which had beea
impannelled to ascertain its value,. and .that for fice
purpose of coinpelling payment thereof -the Complainant sliould have execution, which was accordingly issued, and satisfied.
The Complainant afterwards obtained a writ of -hab.
facws, grounded upon the affidavit of the marshmal that
the Defendant refused to deliver possessipn to the Complainant according to the decree.
By virtue- of this writ the Complaiant was put into
possession of the two tracts of 610 acres each, and the
Defendant, Wallen, brought his )vit of error.

JoNns, for the- Plaiut

it error,

*Moved the Court to direct the Court below to- quash
the writ of hb. faczas and to award a writ' of -restitution, upon the ground, as it is understood, that the
Court below, as a Court of equity, could not award
such a writ.
He cited 5 Com.. Dig. Tit. Pleader 3 B. 20, and 9
Vin. ab. &78. (8 -vo. Ed..) Tit, Error, F pl. 3.
There was ifo appearance for the Defendant in error.
The Court made the order agreeably to the motion.

FAIRFA_'S DEVISEE v. HUNTER'S LESSEE.

182.
Feb.

27i.

.Absent....M.u sI5u-L, ct. J. anid WASHINGTON, J.

THIS was a writ of error, to the Court of appeals L04 F1r,
of Virginia in an ction of ejectment involving tile con- at the time

