SUPREME COURT U. S.
HuQE- s paid, would have extinmashed the right of Cleon Moore
to, the land in question, and that this CONTRACT likewise
V
jloofE. is subst anlially a contract for the sale of land. The demurrer, therefore, to this plea ought to have been overruled.
It is unnecessary to examine other points wuch were
made in the cause. The .udgment of the Circuit Couift
must be reversed, and judgment rendered for the Flair tiff in error.
"u'.vient reversed.
1812.-___

iar1

5th.

___

BARTON r. PETIT AND BAYARD.

A lllaint.f,
EIUROlI
who has iedared joinly Vi!'g'-nt.
against two

Defendants,
as
beVng
incilto-

Present....SiUl the Judges.
to the Cii'cuit Court for the District of

The transcrip of the record which was sent up, be-

dy, wen in gai oy staimug that ,,Heretofore to wit, at rules held
fat ot v one i the clerk's office of the said Court in the month otr
oA the was
wae- December, in the year i807, Andrew Petit and Andrew
dents

Bayard, by Philip N..Nicholas, gent, their attorney
appeared and filed their certanin bill against Seth Barown action ton mid Thomas Fisher; which bill is in the following
against the words, to wit. United States, fifth Circuit, district of
ty unles.S
unot Virgmma, to wit. Andrew Petit and Andrew Bayar&d,
taken,
2Ahorized
so mec'
citizens and inhabitants of the state of Pennsylvanrna
to
dd by the
rtu
the*merchants and partners. trading under the firm of
return off the
7cocesagainst Petit and Bayard, Plaintiffs, complain of Seth Barton
that
if theparty_
mat al and Thomas Fisher, citizens and mnhabitants of the state
of Virginia re- of Virg-nia, late merchants and partners trading- under
turn
that the
Defe dants in custody,
Deendant
i the firm of Barton and Fisher,
I
he
no ndabita.,t
of a plea that the said Defendants
render unto the
said
of the district Plaiitiffs tile sum of four thousand dollars, also '(e)
of Vigini
thousand and four pounds of tobacco at twelve siriljgv
the suit shaill
abatE as to awl sbx pence the hundred weight, being of the vahte of
meh Defen- tfventy dollars and mniety-two cets, which to the .said
The p1 ..tiffPlaintiffs the said Defendants owe, &c., stating a judg
In Virginia is meilt of the General Court of Maryland.
taken on the
cipl.i;
net abatecnhis

not bound to
declare until
all the
).Po..Tim record then states, that the Defendajit, Seth Bardants.hae ap. ton; having been arrested upon the capias.ad resyondent v=s ordero d
but not
n appearitig
arg
and being
be u called,
cale.
peared,
or ti dft//
m
milt be abated
and
but
it.

FEBRUARY TERbI"

2.

195

ed that Jie appear. at the -next rules and give, special- BAR
T.
bail, &c. which he did and-,pleaded payment, upon whith
.the issue was joined, and verdict for the Plaintiffs. PETXTWhereupon the Defendant, Barton; moved in arrest of IiAYAEu'
judgment; because,
as to such as

haenot pI- The declaration stqtes ajoud cause of action against
and peared,
this Defendant and a certain Thomas Fisher,
therefore a' judgment ought not to be rendered against
this Defendant alone.
2' Because the Plaintiff has not in and by his declaration made a profert of the judgment stated in the declaration, under the seal of the General Court of Maryland, where the said judgment is stated to have been
rendered.,

3. Because the said Thomas Fisher ought,, upon a
joint judgment against him and this Defendant, (the
said Thomas being stated to be in life and a citizen
and inhabitant of the district of Virginia) to We a party
*o the judgment, if one is rendered against the said Defendant; and
,k. Because the verdict is insufficient, 'uncertain; and
wants form.
This motion was overruled, and judgment entered
upon the verdict against the Defendant, Barton, alone,
" for.4,000 dollars, also one thousand and four pounds
", of tobacco at twelve shillings and six pence the hun"dred weight, of the value of twenty dollars and rnne..
cty-two cents, and their costs, -&c." Whereupon the
Defendant brought his writ of error.
P B. kXy, for the Plazntiff tn.error
1. The suit being-joint, upon a joint debt, arid, the
4eclaration being against both, averring both to beia
custody, the judgment against one alone is er:roneous.
The writ of capzas, not .being considered as parL of
the record, aecording to the practice in. Virginia, does
not appear in the tianscript. The record states, that
:Barton was'-arrested, but says. nothing as to Fisher.
Noreason appears upon the record -why he was not a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sARa
V.
pp,'r &
B 4 .

party to the judgment. The declaration avers them
both to be m custody, and complains against both. That
is an averment of a fact upon record which the Plaintiffs cannot contradict.
If it apprars on the declaration, or in any of the proceedings on the part of the Plaintiff, that another was
jointly bound with the Defendant, and is still liv ing,
judgment against one is error and must be reversed.
SSand. 291, (C.) note . 5 Bi- 2611.
lt is a rule in good pleading that the count must conform to the writ, and the bar and judgment to the
count. Co. Lit. 203, a.
If this count conforms to the writ, wbich in good
pleading it ought to do, then both were taken, and the
judgment is erroneous.
But if both were not taken upon this joint writ for a
Ioint debt, yet there is error. At common law, if there
e process against two on a joint cause of action, and
one only be taken, the other must be outlawed before
there can be.any other proceeding. Strange 173, Edwards v. Carter But if you could proceed against one,
you must, upon the return of the writ, count against one,
stating that the other was not taken, according to the
truth of the case, and this must appear upon the record
to justify a judgment against one. To authorise a judgment againt one, upon a joint suit againt two, there
must be a .discontinuance, abatement, or outlawry, or
death suggested upon the record. You cannot aver
any thing out of the record to support the judgment.
Every thing necessary to justify the judgment must be
affirmatively shewn in the record by the Plaintiff.
. The Court below erred in rendering judgment for
nore money than was authorized by the Maryland
judgment, which was filed and declared upon as a judgment of record.

This is not an action oF, debt upon a stmpk contract
but technically upon a judgment on record.

TAhe act of Congress of May, -790, declares the
Moae of authenticating ajud~ment; and when so authen-

FEBRUARY TERM 18192

ticated, it is to have the same faith and' credit In -every pwo

Court within the United States as m the Courts of that , .
state in wluch it was rendered.
FZTIT&
It may be declared upon in the same mqnner as if it ,..,
were a judgment of a Court of the state in which the
suit upon it is brought. 2 Dal. 303, Armstrong v.- Car.
son.
Whenever a judgment or matter of record is the gist
of the action, it must be certainly and truly alleged.
Any varance is fatal.
The Maryland judgment is for *,000 dollars, and

1,0o01 lbs. of tobacco at 12 shillings and 6 pence per
hundred. This 12 shillings and 6 pence must be Maryland currency, as the judgment was rendered in Mary-

land, where the dollar is 7 shillings and 6 pence. The
value of the tobacco was only 16 dollars and 73 cents,
whereas the judgment of the Court below fixes its value
at 20 dollars and 92 cents, which was at the rate of 12
shillings and 6 pence, Virginia currency, per hundred.
The Court was bound to take notice of the Maryland
currency It was matter of law; and if they have mistaken it,it is error.
But if it was matter of fact, it ought to have been
found by the jury, -and their not having found it is
error. Cro. Eliz. 536, Bagshaw v. 1layn.
If it is an error, it is not amendable. I Cranch 283,
Thompsoni v. Jameson. And in such a case there can
be no remittitur 2 Salk. 658, Incledon v. Crips.

E. I. Lun and SWANN, contra.
1 There is no evidence in the record that will authorize the Court to take notice of the Maryland currency. Upon the plea of payment it was not necessary
for the Plaintiffs to produce the record of the judgment
in Maryland. Besides, it was a matter for the jury to
ascertain, and they have found it. Their verdict was
"that the Defendant bath not paid the debt in the decla"Aation mentioned."

i.

SUPRIENWCOURT-19. S.
q
3Z=o
T.

in the declaration mentioned was - the sum
debtthousand
,rThe
of four
dollars, also one thousand; and four

.)TLT & " pounds of tobacco at twelve shillings and six pence

.

"the
c.
hundred weight, " being of the Talue of twenty
--._llars and nnety.two cents." This was the debt
which the Defendant pleaded that he had paid, and
which the jury found tlat he had not paid. 2 Wash. i9,
Strode v. Head:.

2. The averment in the declaration that the Defendants are in custody is only matter of form, and is always
made in cases where the Defendants are not iii custody,
and cannot be holden to bail. In this very case, (it bemg debt on a judgment) according to the decisions in
Virginia, the Defendant cannot be holden to-bail. It is
an immaterial aierment, and if itappeqr by the record
that otn, of the Defendants never Was taken, a judgment
againstthe- other is not erroneous. 1. Wash. 9, BroU
v. Belches.

The omi;mion of the clerk, at the rulesp to enter the
suit abated :s to Fisher, is not error.
y the statute of Virginia respecting the District,
Courts of that state it is enacted "that where the
sheriff i)r other officer, shall return on any *rit- of
calas to answer in any civil action, that the Defendant
is not found'wthin lis -bailiwick, the Plaintiff may
either sue out an alias or a plurzas captas, until the Defendant shall be arrested, or a testatum caplas where he
shalt be removed into another county, or may at his
election sue'out an attachment against the estate of the
Defendant to force an appearance." RMv. Code, p. 86,
S 33. And " on the return of the plunes, that tile Defendant is not found, the Court, instead of the process
of outlawry formerly used. may os'der a proclamation
to issue, warning the Defendant to appear at a certain
day therein named, or that judgment will be rendered
against him, which proclamation shall be published,"
&c.-"-and if the Defendant fails to appear pursuant
to such proclamation, the same proceedings shall be
had, mid the same judgment given, as in other cases of
default."' Rev, Cove,p. 87, ยง 41.
By -the statute of Virginia respecting the Voxnty
"for the better ascertaining what process may
CqI c,

FEBRUA:RY TERM i812.
he sued out, where the sheriff or other officer returns BA-Taw
IV.
that'tle'Dfendardttis not to be found in his bailiwick, it
is enacted that where any sheriff or other officer shall PETIT
make such return the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs in any civil BAYCM).
actidn;shall and may sue an attachment, &c. to force
an appearance, or an alias or plunes caphas, at the election, of the Plaintiff or Plaintiffs ." " and where any
Defendant shall be a known inhabitant of another county, and not of the county of that Sheriff to whom the
process shall be directed, such sheriff shall return the
truth of the case, but not that the person is not found
in lits county, and thereupon such process issued from
any County Court clerk's office, as to such Defendant,
shall abate and be dismissed." Rev. Code, 95, ยง 32.
By the former act, Rev. Code, p. 86, ยง 35, rules are
to be holden" montldy at the clerk's office, and ", the
" Plaintiff shall file his declaration in the clerk's office
" at the succeeding rule day after the Defendant shall
" have entered his appearance, or the Defendant may
"c then enter a rule for -the Plaintiff to declare, which if
" he fails or neglects to do,. at the succeeding rule day,
" he shall be non-suited" and pay costs, &c.
The practice, under-these statutes k Virginia, is to
enter the suit abated against a7 Defendant who is returned by the sheriff "c no inhabitant of lis county," and
to proceed against the other, and the declaration is always joint, and in the same form as if both had been
taken.
After one Defendant has appeared, the Plaintiff is
bound by law to declare against him or to suffer a nonsuit.
So if one suffers judgment to be rendered against
him by default, yqu.proceed against the other and file
your declaration against both. So 6ne Defendant m
custody may confess judgment, and .you proceed against
the other. In the case of Brown v. Belches, cited from
Washington's Reports, the declaration was against
both, and, stated them both to be in custody, and such
has been the uniform practice for more than 20 years.
Afterwards, E. I. Lee obtained a certiorari Upon, a

oo
AIRToN

v.

SUPREME CURT -U. S.

suggestion that the transcript of the record did not con-

tamn the writ of captas ad'respondendum against Barton
nTIT & and Fisher and the marshal's return thereupon.
V A'ARD.

Upon the return of the certiorari,the clerk sent up a
copy of the capias, which was in the usual form, against
both Defendants, and of the marshal's return, which
was "5 executed on Seth Barton only, and bailed by
Thomas R. Rootes-The clerk also certified " that the said capias not
having been executed upon the said Thomas Fisher,
an alias captas was awarded against him, which has
not been returned, and the attorney for the Plaintiffs
having information that that Defendant was vo znha" bitant of the Virginia distrnct, at rules held at. the
" clerk's office in the month of June, in the year 1809,
66 caused the said suit to be abated as,to the said Thomas
"6Fisher"
This was stated by E. L Lee to be conformable to the
"
6c
ft
",

practice in Virginia.
.Varck14th.....qlt the Judges being present,
WASHINGTON, J. delivered the opinion of

the Court

as followsThis was an action of debt brought in the Circuit
Court for the district of' Virginia by Petit and Bayard
against Seth Barton and Thomas Fisher, upon a judgment rendered in the General Court of Maryland. The
declaration is against the said Barton and Fisher,
late merchants and partners, trading under the firm of
Barton and Fisher, citizens and inhabitants of the state
of Virginia, both of whom are alleged to be in the custody of the marshal. The record states that Barton,
who had been arrested upon the capias, gave bail and
put in the plea of payment, on winch an issue was joined, and a verdict was rendered against him. He afterwards moved in arrest of judgment, and, amongst other
reasons, assigned the following, viz. That the declaration states a joint cause of action against the said Bar.
ton and one Thomas Fisher, and that, therefore, a judgment ought not to be rendered against him alone. The

FEBRUARY TERM iIM
motion. in arrest of judgment having been argued and inATbif
overrtded, judgment was rendered against Barton, and'
v.
the-record has been removed into this Court by writ of p.siT &
error.

The general rule certainly is, that if two or more
persons are sued in a joint action, the Plaintiff cannot
proceed to obtain a judgment against one alone, but
must wait until the others have been served with process, or until the other Defendants nave been proceeded
against as far as the law authorizes for the purpose of
forcing an appearance. In England the Plaintiff must
proceed to outlaw the Defendants who have not been
served, before he can proceed against those who appear.
In Virginia, where this suit was brought, the Plaintiff
might have taken out an alias and. a pliries capias, or
testat m capias,or, at his election, an attachment against
the estate of such" Defendant; or, upon the return of a
pLurzes not found, the Court may. order a proclamation
to issue, warning the Defendant to appear on a certain
day, and, if he fail to do so, judgment by default may
be entered against him.
But, whatever may be the mode provided by law for
forcing aii appearance, the Plaintiff cannot proceed to
obtain a judgment against one Defendant in a joint ac
tion against two, until he ls proceeded against the
other as far as the law will authorize, unless the law
dispenses with tie necessity of proceeding against the
other Defendant beyond a certain point to force an ap.
pearance. Thus, in Pennsylvania, (as is known to one
of the judges of this court) if the sheriff return non est
as to one Defendant, the Plaintiff may proceed against
the other on whom the writ was served, stating, in his
declaration, the return of the writ as to his companion,
To remove the objection which arises in this case,
the Plaintiff obtained a certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Vilgrnia on a suggestion of dimniution and it now
appears, by the certificate of the clerk of that oourt;
that an alias capias issued against Thomas Fisher,
which was not returned, but the Plaintiff's attorney
caused the suit to be abated as to the said Fishier, .upon
information which he had received that the said Fisher
was no inhabitant of the district of Virginia, Had the
2
VOL. yDT

BAYARD.

SUPREME COURIT. X S.,
2wTolf

marshal returned the writ and st;ited this fact . t)

law

-).

would have abated it as to -Fisher;'m. which case the
,VTIT & objection to the subsequent proceedinga against Barton
nAYA b. would have been removed. But since the Plaintiff could
- not have supported his action origihally against one
Defendant on a joint cause of action where it appeared
by his own showing, or by a plea in' abatement, that
there was anotheD person who. was jointly bound, and
might be sued, he ought not to be permitted, after stating a joint cause of action, to abata or discontinue his
action against one, unless authorized to do so by the
return of the process- against that Defendant.' If he
does so, it furnishes a good ground ior arresting the
judgment.
It is contended, in support of this judgment, that, ao,
by the law of Virginia, the Plaintiff must file his declaration at the next succeeding rule day after the Defendant shall have entered his appearance, or that the
Defendant may rule him to do so, which if he fails, to
do, he shall be non-suit, the Plaintiff not only may, but
is bound to proceed against one Defendant alone after
he has appeared. But the Court understands this law
as applying to a single Defendant, or, if there be more,
to the appearance of all the Defendants.
Judgnpent reversed.

18i2.
'March

WILSON v. KOONTZ.

6th.

-Preseut.....ll the Judges.
The Defen,ant to an at-

tachment m
-chancery in

Virginia may

plead the statute of limita-

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Circult Court for the district of Columbia, which dismissed
the Complainant's bill in. equity.

tions without
j~n~ero

Wilson filed a bill in equity, in the nature of an attachinent in chancery, againat Koontz, surviving part-

aDefendant
who remoyca

ras Arvine and Joseph Mandeville as garnishees.

ner of Koontz and Ober, as principal debtor, and ThoIt

