FEBRUARY TERM 18iS.

the property in the bond of conveyance mentioned in FERGUSON
I v.
the declaration was not recovered-ta& the suit then depending for the recovery th6feof, -whereas the coiitract HARWOOD.
produced in evidence contained no limitation to a recovery in that particular suit. We are satisfied however that the Plaintiff has leclared according to the true
intent of the parties as apparent on the contract. It
could never have been their intention to postpone the
right to a return of the tobacco or its value, beyond the
time of a recovery or failure in the suit then depending.
Any other consti:.ction would have left the rights of
the.parties in suspense for an indefinite. period, wholly
inconsistent with the avowed objects of thp contract.
On the whole, it is the opinion of the Court that the
judgment be affirmed -with costs.

BIUYS

1813.

Ti.

THE CHESAPEAKE I1*SURA TCFCOMPANY.

Feb.

24th.

lbsent....T6DD, J,

ERROR to.the Circuit Court fog the district ofThere canno
MarylanWi in an action of covenant 11pon Apolicy of in- be a total loss
Partconsitof a
surance on hIdes, winch by thememorandun in the po- of Warg
licy, are declared to be free from average, unless gene- i g of memo.

iral. The policy contains the usual stipulation "that randu,
cles of only
"in case of-lossor damage, the-assured shall labor, &c. one species

(suchshid".)
"for the preservation of the property, to the expenses
z- .Nor
are the

"of which the assurers will contribute." The voyage underwriters
was to .Amsterdam. The vessel arrived at a place cal- liable for sal.
led cc 'iew Diep ;" where, according to the usage of the "a upon
trade, the hides were put into several lighters to be sent under the
which
stink, but someelause
to Amsterdam. One of these lighters
.
authorizes
thsO
of the hides contained, in it were afterwards fishe'd Up asured-.to Jabor andpreertravel
and saved by the. people of the! place, for whih a sal-€,.for.the
vage of 6,000 dollars wis allowed and paid. The .est va, If the
were totally lost. This action was brought to recover cargo, unless
for those totally lost, and for the salvage of those which peraps ma

were saved.

alvage

ay

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1IAYs

v.
CHESAPEAKE

INS. CO.

On a case stated, the judgment of the Court below
was for the Defendants, ojn which the Plaintiff brought
his writ of error.
IIARPER f0e Flaintiff u error,contended,

1. That where an insurance is made in gross, as in
total loss of this case, upon a cargo consisting of a number of sepathe cargo.
rate distinct things there may be a total loss upon some
of them, though the rest are saved, and
have prevented an actual

2d. That as consequently the loss here upon the hides
fished up would have been total but for the labor and
care of the assured, they are entitled to be reimbursed
the expense, by the underwriters, under the stipulation
in the policy on that subject, viiotwithstanding the declaration in the memorandum, exempting hides from
particular average.
1. The obvious construction and meaning of the memorandum is, that where The cargo is divisible, there
may be a total loss of part. The average loss mentioned is loss by deterioration. If one out of many bales of
cloths shoudd be lost, it would be a total loss of that
bale.-But if one piece in a bale should be damaged
and lost, it would be an average, loss. especially as to
memorandum articles. If a cat-go should consist of
500 casks of wine, and 499 of thvim shottld be lost, one
only being saved, this would be a total loss of the 99
casks.
In the absence of allluthority, we must resort to general principles. Such cases must have existed oftenbut no case is found in the books like the present. The
inference is, that it must have been considered as a total loss.
2. The 2d point, (as to the salvage) is 'perhaps a
-point of more difficulty, but it depends in part upon
the first. Where the object o" the expense is to preveut
a total loss, the underwriters are liable. Here the sal'vage loss prevents a total loss.
If a literal construction be given to the two stipulations in the policy, one Would destroy the other. The

FEBRUARY TPERk 1813.
insured are to labor to pmveut a total loss, .not for isxArs
thett own benisfit,-for they,'4re insured. buL tir-the bez,
T.
nefit of. the underwriters.. The loss .was of part of a cmEsAlig'.ter load of' hides, some wet'e fished up and saved,. PiEAKE
and salvage paid.-No expense rould arise r.spectinig nts co,
these hides, unless it would. conmi nder the name-of.---average loss. "'e stipulation therefore to labor &c.,
would be void as t. all thesi' articles;. The construction
ou ht to -be, that we N ill pay all expunses incurred, to
prevent a greater than an, average loss.
.Marc&6th....LIVINsroN, J. delivered-the bpinion of
the Co.urt as followsTlis. is an insuranceon hides, "wirranted ly thd
c ssured free from average,, unless general."-.The
declaration is for a total losThby perils 9f the s.eas,. but
it came out in evidence, that s,280 hides (tie h61
number insured being I-,565,) were put on-btrdil-of fi,
lighter to be transported from The vessel to. then. place
qf destination-.that the lighter in her passage ta-he
shore was stink, by wlnhi accidenit, 789 of..the hides, of
the value of 4,000 dollars, were totally lost. and the remdua, to the nitber of 2.,491, morewere fisted up.antsavedat the cost of six thoisa~nd dollars, which were pald by
the ,Plaintiff.-The ldes tjjus- sarvedl were delivered-ti
the Plaintiff's agent, and sold on his accoutt., k-he
wholksum, insured on the carro of Mao" by the ]Se"
fendahts, was twenty-five thousand- dollars.
On this state of facts it bas been conteniled, that ibis
nspranceialthough on perishable commodities i being
In gross on acargo consisting of a distinct number 0
articles, there may lie a total loss as to some of them,
although others be saved, and that.for the jar' of :the
cargo, -thus totally lost, the underwriters'are liable .notwithst4nding the agceement respectitig What are gene-_
rally cal;ed memorandum articles. In support of -ls
position it is said that-tie only intention of the parties,
in coming to this agreement, was to obviate dispute
toncerning losses arising from the-perishable nafure of
thegoods insured, but that as this loss happened in another way, and, is total as to 'ti portion of the property
p question, it oght not to be consideredasexchdedby
Vie memorandum.
VOL, VIL
51

SUPREME COURT U S.
Iznrsg
v.'
enEsAP?,AKx
ir's. co.

Whatever may have been the motive to theintroduction of this clause into policies of insuiiance, whichwas
done as early as the year ,71,9, and most probabiy with
the intention o protecting insurers against losses arising solely from 4 deterioration of the article, by its
own perishable quality--or whatever anibiguity may
once have existed from the term average being used in
different senses, that is as signifying a contribution to a
general loss, and also a particular.orpartial inujuy falling
on tile subject insured, it is well understood at the present day, with respect to such articles, that underwriters are. free from all partial losses of every kind, which
do not arise from a contribution towards a general ave_rage It mnly remains then to examine, and so the question has properly been treated at bar, whether the hides,
which were sunk and not reclaimed, constitted a total
or partial loss within the meaning of this policy. It has
been considered as' total By the counsel of the assured,
but the Court cannot perceive any ground for treting it
in that way, inasmuch as out of many -thousand hides
which were on board, not quite eight hundred were lost,
making in.point of value somewhAtt less than one sixth
part' of tie 'um insured by this policy If theme were
jio memorandum in the way, and the Plaintiffhad gone
on to recover, as in that case lie nught have donei it is
perceived at once that he must have had judgment only
for a 'paitial loss, which would have been equivalent to
the injury. actimlly sustaid. But without having recourse to any reasonmg on the subject, the proposition
appears too self evident not to command universal asseut. that when, only a part of a cargo, coiisisting,all
of'the same kind of articles, is lost in any way what.eV(, and -the residue, (which in this case amowits to

Puch the greatest part.) arr~ives in safety at its port of
Alestination, thle loss cannot but be partial, and that this
umst fbrev~e be so, as lon g as a part continues to be le,-s
than the 'whole. This loss then being a particular Ion
bily, and.'not resulting from a general average, the
Court is of opinion that the Defendants, are not liable
for it.

Having disposed of this point, it would seem as if
much difficulty could not occur in deciding the other
question, which has been made in this cause, and that
is,-whether the assured is not entitled to recover the

FEBRUARY TERM

sis.

M9

expensesvhich 1e was put to in'saving part of the
Judes which had sunk.

aumAt
1

This liabiliy is supposed to result from that clause PEAiLz

in the policy, which authorizes the assured, " in case ims.'co;
'of any &wsordatmage, to sue labor and'travel for, in
-"and about the defence, safeguard and recovery of the
"sgoods, or, any part thereof, to the charges whereof
",the assurers will contribute-according-.to the amount
" of the sum insured." If this clause bo.construed with
reference to what is most evidently its sulject matter,
that is a loss with ii the policy, and in connexion with
other parts of the instrument, it seems irnpossibleto mnu.,
understan4 it, or that it should receive so extensive an
applicatioi as the plaintiff. is desirous of giving to it.
The parties certainly meant to apply it only to the case
of those, losses or hnjuries for which the assurers, if
they had happened, wodld have been responsibi.Having, in such cases only, an antereft in rescuing or
relieving the property, it is reasonable tha then ,only
they should defray the charges ircurred 4y an effort
made for that purpose, hut when a loss tukes place.
winch cannot -be thiown on them, it would require
much stronger and more explicit stipulation than we find
in the policy to render them tible to contribute to rich
exp.enses. If a cargo be insured for a long voyage
against sea risks only, and a capture intervene thervery
day after the vessel leaves port; it is very clear'that the
underwriter is not only not liable for such a loss, ,but
that lie derives ar advantage from it, as his risk may
be terminated thereby, and' the whole prcmiym be earned, and yet if the construction now endeavoured to be
put on thls clause should prevail, all the expenses of

claimimg a propertyj in which lie had no interest, and
which if. condemned is a -matter of indifference.to him,
and all the costs of pursuing it through an almost endless litigation, would )e thrown, whether the pursuit
were successful or otherwise, or an insurer who, had
taken care to restrict his liability to losses by perils of
the sea only The Court cannot subscribe to such an
interpretation, when a more. natural, rational, and obvious one, and that without departini from the letter of
the instrument, presents itself, which i., that tins clause
tan never applV but in such cases as %ould, if they hap-.
peh, be losses(either partial or tetalwlthin the mean-

RUPREME-COURT U. ML
DUv5
V.

c'hiEA,

Ps&n

ing of the policy. -We are therefore of opinion, that the
inderwriters not beiiig answerable for the principal loss
in this case, they cannot be so for the su §equent expelises which ,were ifcurred in recovering the property.
Thajudinent
of the Court below, is afirnied with

84 ,

STARK

1b.
TlE CHESAPEAKE INSURANCE

.&SC1t...oWASHUNGTON,

J.TODD, .T.

COMPANY.

tUvA'm, 4.
D

It need- soQt
ERROR to the 1Ircuit Court for the distrit. of
pMar by te Mar" lands in an action of coyenanit upon a pblicy of asralzaton tha Au ance, 31 10101 the,pods,insured were warranted to

tek
-the requisi be 4i neraa roperty, " proof of which to be required in
ites pre~cribcdUjlSttsAls
lpy
w for the "the Unte States only." A loss by capture having
adimss:on,
,,f
taken.place, the Plain(if qfafered
"alensto the
'iens towi rrfusedl whereforethe

an abandonment which
brougtit this action

zenship have

b-ean
,ompliTo prAyo
9d with.
4, mb that te e'produced

bis citizenship and support the warranty,
and read at the-trial an exemplification dul:y
mudgmet or .alientxcated, of the record- of his naturalization, in the
like Court ad.
p'ttng the - ords t!4owing,. VIZ
come
Rilien to
a Clmzen
beC
O
f COinlnla
c-oeaie.
.M v,.
ofr mmon pleas. held at York, for the
(kat all hVY .ftQ LWy. of; Y 414I on thotlnirA Monday of May, in the
-rerq.ss "y~arof " ur lord.onethousand eilhthundred and four,
11ate been
.
Somtnjliedrq
%b-fore.John Josoph iHe r, esquire presidenh aWd
or, thatmuny
paot
p'our
be

%

ofthe rep.

i'..J10 pe.'tition 9f"Johl-Philip Stark, late of Wetgen.
stea, Bereburg,.in the empieof Germany, was read to
"6tho Voiuf settii -forth that y.our petitioner has ret
Q1sided _ 'thp gap of Pennsylvania five years, that he
0 Is w Vw desuoms .,04.,commg a citizen of the United
"Sates conforwablyto the act of congres$ in such case
itltely provided, 'your petitioner thorefore prays of the

S.assogiatejudges, &e, assig-edi.&c.
°

