SUPREME COURT U. S.

.116

V,,oA~
s Nathaniel Dowse, who derived his title, if any, from
v.
an instrument stated at large in the same
and
yxcPtsny. executed in his favor by one John Nelson. verdict,
The mstru=-- ment is wit1ut a seat and was executed at the Island of
Grenada, in the West Indies, before a notary public, according to'the mode prescribed, by the existing laws,
to pass real estate in that colony-and both-parties were,
at that~time residents therein.
By the laws of Massachusetts, no estate of freehold
in land can be conveyed unless by a deed or conveyance
under the hand aig seal of the party-mand to perfect the
title as against strangers, it is further requisite that the
deed should be acknowledged before a proper magistrate, and recorded in the -registry of deeds for the
county where the land lies.
The question presented for consideration, is whether
the lex loci contractus or the lex loci rez sitm is to govern
in the disposal of real estates.
'The Court entertain no doubt on the subject; and
are clearly of opinion that the title to land can be acquired and lost only in the manner prescribed by the
law of the place where such land is situate. The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be affirmed,

1M8i2.
Fcb.

THE SCHOONER-EXCHANGE

24th.

'o

M'FADDON & OTHERS,

.Present....,llthejudges

A oubli-

foreign soeregnat peace
ted State
comng
ntoand
our ports,

demeaning
herselfia a

THIS being a cause in which the sovereign right
caitmed by INAPOLEON, the regning
emperor of the
French, and the political relations between
the United
States and France, were involved, it
was, -upon the suggestion
l
efofr the Attorney General; ordered'to a hearing
in preference to other causes which stood before it on

the docket.

FEBRUARY TERM im8.
It was an appeal from the sentence of the. Circuit SCHOONER
Court of the United States,-for the district of Pennsyl3Exvania, which reverVed the sentence of the District CHANGE
Court, and ordered the vessel to b.e restored to the It- Iv.

bellants.

M4FADDON

&OTHERS.

The case was this-on the 2i.h of August, 1811, John
friendly
man3'Faddon k William Geetham, of the
•, State of Mary. ne,
is exempt
land, filed their libel in the District Court of the Uni- figtn
thejursted States, for the District of Pennsylvanma, against the diction ofthe
Schooner Exchange, setting forth that they were her country.
sole owners, on the 27th of October, 1809, when she
sailed from Baltimore, bound to St. Sebastians, in
Spain. That while .lawfully and peaceably pursuing
her voyage, she was on the s0th of December, 18i; violently and forcibly taken by certani persons, acting
under the decrees and orders of NAPOLEoN, Emperor
of the French,out of the custody of the libellants,, and of
their captain and agent, and was disposed of by those
persons, or some of them. in violation of the rights of
the libellants, and of the law of nations in that behalf.
That she had been brought into the port of Philadelphia, and was then in the jurisdiction of that court, mt
possession of a-certain, Dciens 01. Begon, her reputed
captain or master. That no sentence or decree of condenation had been pronounced against her, by any
court of competent jurisdiction, but that the property
of the libellants in her, remained unchanged and in full
force. They therefore prayed the usual process of th,
court, to attach 'the vessel, and that she might be res.
tored-to them.
Upon this libel the usual process was issued, return
able on the 30th of August, 18ii, .which was executed
and returned accordingly, but no person appeared to
claim the vessel in opposition to the libellants. On the
6th of September, the usual proclamation was made for
all persons to appear and show cause why the vessel
Should not be restored to.her former owners, but no per
son appeared..
On the 13th of September, a like proclamation was
made, but no appearance was entered.
On the 20th of September, MAfr. Dallas- the Attorney

SUPREME COURT U. S.

seno-Na

of the United States, for tIe District of Pennylvama,
appeared, and (at ihe instance of the executive depart--nANGE ment of the government of the United Stateg, as it is un.0.
derstood,) filed a suggestion, to the following effect.
Ex-

&oTHERS.

Protesting that he does not know, and does not admit
the truth of the allegations contained in the libel, he
suggests and gives thecourt to understand and be informed,
Thft in as much as there .exists between the United
States of America and Napoleon, emperor of France and
king of Italy, &c. &c. a state of peace and amity ; the public vessels of his said Impei'ial and RoyalMajesty, conforming to the law of i ations, and laws of the oaid United
States, may freely enter the ports and harbors of the
said United States, and at pleasure depart therefrom
without seizure, arrest, detention or molestation. That
a certain iiiblic vessel described, and known as the Balaou, or vessel,.No. 5, belonging to his said Imperial
and R{y- MaJesty, and actually employed in his service, under the command of the Sieur Begon, upon a
-voyage from Europe to the Indies, having encountered
great stress of weather upon the higl. seas, was compelled to ehter the port of Philadelphia, for refreshment
and repairs, about the 22d- of July, is1. That having
entered the said port from necessity, and not voluntarily ;- having procured the reqisite refreshments
.and repairsi and having conformed in all -things to
the law of nations and the laws of the United States,
was about to depart from the said port of Philadelplaa, and to resume her voyage in the service of his
said- Imperial and Royal Majest_, when on the 24th
of August, 18il,. she was seized, arrested, and detamed in pursuance of the process of attaihment issued ppon the prayer of the libellants. That the said
public vessel had not, at any time been violently and
forcibly taken or captured from the libellants, thqir captai and agent on the high seas, as pfize of war, or
otherwise , hut that if the said public vessel, belonging
-to his said Imperial and Royal Majesty as aforesaid,
ever was a vessel navigating under the flag of the United States, and possessed by the libellants, citizens
thereof, asin their libel ii alleged, (which nevertheless,

FEBRUARY TERM i82.

i9

the said Attorney does not admit) the property of the scvooN U
iuxlibeants, in the said vessel was seized and divested,
and the same became vested in his Impe iial, and Royal .CHAxGZ
T.
Majesty, within a poft of his empire, or of a country occupied 'by his arms, out of thejurisdiction of the United MFADDOno
States, and of any particular state of the United States, &OTHfERS.
according to the decl-ees and ,laws of France, in such
case provided. And the saud Attorney sublhitting,
whether, in consideration of the premmes, the court will
'take cognizance of the cause, respectfully prays that tl
court will be pleased to order and decree, that-the -process of attachment, heretofore issued, be quashed, that
thelibel be dismissed with costs, and that the said publjc
vessel, her tackle, &c. belonging to his said Imperial and Royal Majesty, be released, &c. And the'said
Attorney brings here into court, the original commissior
of the said Sieur Bqmo, &c.
On the 27th of September, i8li, the libellants filed
their answer to the suggestion of the District Attorney,
to -which they except, because it does not appear to be
made for, or ou behalf, or at the instance of +he Uiiited
States, or any other body politic or p~erson.
They aver, that the schooner -is not a -public vessel,
belonging to his Imperial and'Royal Majesty, but Xs
fhe private property of the libellants. They deny that
she was compelled by stress of weather, to enter the'port
of Philadelphia, or that she came otherwise than voluntarily,. and that the property of the libeIlants in the vessel never was divested,, or yested in his Imperial and
Royal Majesty, within a port of his empire, or of a
country occup--ed by his arms.
The District Attorney, produced the aflldavits of'the
Sieur Begon, and the French consul. verifying the. cQmmission of the' captain, and stating the fact, that the
-public vessels of the Emperor of France never -carry
with them'ay other document or evdeice that they belong .to hbim, .than Ins flag, the commission, alid the
posssmion of his ofilcers.
In the commission it was statedi that the v*ssel was
Bayonne.
armed.adf

On the 4th- of October, 1811, the District Judge dis-

120

SUPREME COURT U. S.

scooi.R missed the libel with costs, upon the ground, that a pubExlic armed vessel of a foreign sovereign, in amity with
CHANGE. our government, is not .subject to the ordinary judicial
10.
tribtmnals of the country, so far as regards the question
M'FADON of title, by which such sovereign claims t6 hold the
& otais. vessel.
From this sentence, the libellantsappealed to the
Circuit Court, where it wa: reVersed, on the 28th of
October, i8in.
Froin this sentence of reversal, the District Attorney,
appealed to this Court.
DALL.s, .Attorney ofthe United Statesfor the district of
Pennsylvamna, contended,

I. That this is not a case of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction.
2. That the public character of the vessel is sufficiently proved, and
3. That being a public national vessel of France, she
is not liable to the ordinary judicial process of this
country
1. It ought to appear upon the proceedings themselves
that this is a case of admnralty and maritime jurisdiction.

In Enigland thejurisdiction of the Court of admiralty
comprehends three branches. 1. The criminal jurisdiction, for the punishment of'offences committed upon
the high seas, or submitted to its cognizance by the
statute law.
2. The prize jurisdiction, as to captures as-prize of
-war, on the-high seas. 3. The Instance Court, which
has jurisdiction of torts committed at sea, in which case
locality is essential, and of maritime contracts, which
are also perhaps local.
The district Courts of the United States, have the
sax ethree branches of jurisdiction, but the jurisdiction

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
must be shewn in the proceedings, together with the au- SCHooxMn
thority to seize.within our waters. Laws United States, mxVol.. 3. p. 91. sect. 6. 3. Dall. 6. cEaL&N,
Fol. I.-p. 53, sect. 9Q.I.
.V'

But the libel-does not bring the case within ither of m,'FAIWo
those branches of jurisdiction. The libel simply states &oTHmns.
that while she was, lawfully and peaceably pursuing her --voyage, she was forcibly seized under the decrees of
Napoleonr emperor of the French. It does not allege
any crime upon the high seas. It does not state the
seizure to be as prize of -war It does not allege a
tort committed upon the high seas, nor any maritime
contract. The admiralty has no jurisdiction upon the
mere possession of the vesselin our harbors, unconnected with a totr on the high seas. Nor upon a tort coinmitted here, or in aforeign country-nor upon a mere
question of title. 2. Browns, civ. and ad. law 110, Il,
113, 111, 115, 116, 117
There is not a single instance of admiralty jurisdiction exercised in this country without possessi, cdu,pled with a maritime tort.
2. As to the proof of the public character of the -vessel. The flag, the public commission, and the possession of the officer, have always been sufficient evidence,'
at sea or in port-and for fiscal or executive purposes.
Why should it not be sufficient evidence ii a judicial
proceeding? No public vessel ever carries any other
documents. No otlier proof of property in the sovereign is ever required. It is acknowledged in all our
treaties. Even the common law requires only the best
evidence which the nature of the case admits.
In the case of JIr Picher, i. Dall. 321. no other evidence of his public character was produced or required, than a letter from Talleyrand, the French minister
for foreign affairs. Upon that evidence he wae discharged.
K1urm, for the Appellees.
Admitted that the commission, the flag, and the possession, were sufficient evidence of the public cbaratrd
of the vessel
VOL. VII.
1

SUPREME COURT U. 0
OV1001ER

.x-

CHANGE

V.

DALLAs-The principal question then is, whether a
public national vessel of France, coming into the United'
States to repair, is liable to be .arrested upon the claim
of title by an individual ?

M'FADDON

&oTnEIts.

Tins vessel was seized by a sovereign, in virtue of
his sovereign prerogative. In such a case, the claim
of the individual merges in the right of the offended
sovereign. The size of the vessel can make no difference. Upon principle, the Royal George, belonging to
his Britannic majesty is as liable to this process, as the
BalaouNo. .5. Suppose a British frigate lying at New
York, and one of her seaman should escape and libel
her for his wages-the same argument which will support this case would support that.
This was one of the seizures under the Rambouillet
decree.
eVdo not justify that decree, but we say that
whenever the act is done by a sovereign in his sovereign character, it becomes a matter of negotiation, or
of reprisals? or of war, according to its importance.
It s proved that she arrived in distress-that she had
been -sent on a distant mission with a military cargo.
No assent to submit to the ordinary jurisdiction of the
country, can be presumed in such a case as that. She
had committed no offence while here. She did not come
to trade. There was no implied waver of the peculiai
immunities of a public vessel. The right of free passage was open to her, as it was to the public vessels of
every other nations except England, whose ships were
expressly excluded by a particular statute.
But pilt the question gener lLy, can a vessel oi war,
for. any cause, be attached at the suit of an individual.
In doubtful cases the argument ab uwonvenenti, ought
to have great weight. The .jurisdiction now claimed
would extend to alU men, to all sdits, to torts and to 6ontracts, to every vessel seized in a foreign port and taken into the public service. Impressed seamen might
libel a whole British squadron for their wages. The
peace of our ports and harbors would be at the mercy
of the individuals. It would be impossible to carry it
Into practice. The sentence of the Court could not beexecuted. It is beautifid in theory to exclaim ccfat

FEBRUARY TERM ii2.

123

Jistitia-rua chum, but justice is to be administered scHooi-EA
E.Xwith a due regard to the law of nations, and to the
rights of other sovereigns. When an individual re- cHANrW.
W.
ceives an injury from a foreign sovereign, he must cornplain to his own government, who will make it a matter mpADoDN
of negotiation, and. if justice be refused may grant re- &oTH s.

prisals.

,Our acts of Congress never subject foreign ,public
vessels to forfeiture. The von-intercourse act (as it is
called) forfeits private, but not public British vesselsthe public vessels are forbidden to come, if they do
come, you order them to depart. If they refuse and you
are not strong enough to drive them away, you prohibit
supplies tothem, but you do not subjectthem to forfeiture.
We do not, however, deny the right of a nation to
change the public law as to foreign nations, upon giv
ing notice. We may forbid the entrance of their public ships, and pumsh the breach of this prohibition by
forfeiture, nor do we deny the obligation of a foreign
sovereign to conform to pre-existing laws, as to offences-and as to the acquisition of property, nor his
liability for his prvata debts and contracts. Vattel,
4126. B. 2. c. 18. sect. 340. 3-1. 316, So if a sovereign
descend frouf the throne and become a merchant, be
submits to the laws of the country If he contract private debts, his private funds are liable. So if he charter a vessel, the cargo is liable for the freight.
But in the present case lie appears in Is sovereign
character, the commander of the national vessel exercises- a part of his sovereign power., and in such a case-*
no consent to submit to the ordinary judicial tribunals
of the country can be implied. o Such implied consent
must depe.i4 on the act, on theperson, and on the sulject,
Such consent is implied where the municipal law,
previously provides and changes the 'law of nationswhere it regulates trade-whereit defines and punishes crimes, and where it fixes the tznure of property
real or pprsonal. But it cannot be implied' where the
law of nations is .unchanged-nor where the, implication is destructive of the independence, the equality,
and dignity of the sovereign. Such a jurisdiction is
not given by the constitution of the United States, nor

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sCHOoniER is it mentioned in the judiciary acts. If so. important
Pxajurisdiction was intended to be given, it would cerCHANGE tainly have been 'mentioned and regulated by law. It
v.
cannot be derived from any practical construction of
MFADDON our laws. In 1794 , the public vessels were not seized,
&oTHEEs. biqt ordered away. The impost law, (Laws of U. S.
Vol. 4. p. 331, sect. 31) excepts publicvessels, from
fhe obligation.to make report and entry The act of
.lXarch 3d, 180 ,. (Vol. 7 p. 331, sect. 4) -for the preservation of peace in our ports and harbors, gives authority to the president to prohibit the foreign armed
Yessels from entering our ports, and to order those to
depart which may have entared, and if they refuse to
depart, to prhiibit all intercourse with them, and to
drive them away, but not to seize them. Public vessels were excepted from the embargo, in i807 and i808.
(Laws U. S. Vol. 9. p. 7, ,sect. 2. and p. 243. sect.
1, 2, and 3.)
The judicial construction of the law by the courts in
Pennsylvama, was, that a state could not he subjected
to judicial process, unless by the words of the Constitu-tion of the United States: and many sound minds were
of opinion that even those did not gi e the jurisdiction,
and when it was finally decided in the Supreme Court
of the United States that a suit might be maintained
against a state in the Federal Courts, the states amended the constitution so as not to admit of that construc.
tion.
The case of Nathan v. the Commonwealth of Virginia,
I Dall. 77, was a foreign attachment aqainst some military stores belonging to the state of Virginia the object of which was to compel an appearance; and the
court refused to compel the sheriff to return the writ,
being of opinion that Virginia being a sov.preign state
could not be compelled to appear in a court in Pennsylvania. The present process against the" vessel is to
compel an appearance. It is true the master may give
security; 'but to compel him to do so is to bring the
emperor into court, and to subject him, in his sovereign
character, to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States.
The Cassius, (in the case of United States vo. Judge

FEBRUARY TERM I8M.2
Peters, S Da//. 121, and Ketland, qt tarn v. the Cassius, scHooNEn
2 Da//. 365) had violated a municipal law of the United
inxStates; yet, being a public vessel of France, tha go- CHiANGB
vernment of the Unitpd" States directed' the attorney
v.
general to file a suggestion, stathig the character of the MFADDON

vessel, which it was supposed would have taken the

case out of the jurisdiction of the court. But the case
went off upon another objection to the jurisdiction.

There is then no municipal law, nor any practical
construction by the executive, the legislative, or the
judicial department of our government, which aithorzes the jurisdiction now claimed, we can only have
recourse to the law of nations to try the validity of that
claim. That law requires the consent of thb- sovereigns
either express or implied, before he can be subjected to
a foreign jurisdiction, 2 Rtutherford, 163 to 170. There
is no express assent of a foreign sovereign to the jurisdiction, over his prerogative. The distinction is between
his private acts, and his acts as sovereign, and between
his private and his public property Vat. B. 2, p. 313,
cl. 14. § 23, 216. 2 Buth. 536. Vat. 707, B.4s.
M.t0,
Marlyn i8l. Ruth. 5-.
Gallians.B. 1,c.-c.
.. 7,
The cases of implied assent are, 1. Trade, when his
goods are liable for freight, or liable to his factor for.
advances, &c. or liable to pay duties. In all which
cases there is a specific lien on the goods. 2. In case
he acquire property in the country, whether real ol'
personal. 3. In case of offences against existing laws,
such as entering when prohibited, or breaking the
peace when in port. But the law of nations excludes
the implication and-presumption in every case where
the sovereignty is concerned-as 1. In the case of an
ambassador-,2. Of the sovereign himself-S. The passing of his armies through the country, in which case he
retains all his rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction
over his afmy--4. In case of. his navy passing through
our watcers.
The British government, although it authorizes the
search of private ships for their seamen, disclaims the
right to search ships of war, even on -the oceanj the
place of common.jurisdiction.
.Bynkershook, p. .. 9, c. I.for-the first time asserts a.

&OTHERs.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
,.dwooAzA principle not recognized by any prior writer- viz. that
,
xthe goods of the sovereign, however acquired, whether
pnJxGFG
of a public or private nature, are liable to process to
v.
compel'an appearance. But he does not cite one ad,'ADDOjludged case, nor one writer upon the law of nations to
'&bTHnn5. support him. The only case he cites is from Huber,
and that denies the jurisdiction. The exzrna which he
cites is only a kind of chronicle or journal, like the annual register.
It is a book of no authority. The case of the queen
of Spain's ship arrested at Flushing and the queen of
Bohemia's in i65, which were released by the states
general, are against-lim. His book clearly shows that
the practice of nations is against his doctrine. It is
evident that le alludes to. a practice of citation in the
states of Holland, or among the members of the Ger
manic body.'
The general principle is against him. He is opposed
by other writers and supported by none. He is opposed by the practice of nations and supported by no
judicial decision.
If the courts of the United States should exercise
such a jurisdiction it will amount to a judicial declaration of war. There is already a case before this court
in which it will be called upon to decide whether St.
Domingo be an independant natio4, and another in
whwli it is to determine whether the crown of, Spain
belongs to Ferdinand the 7th or Joseph Bonaparte.
If this court is to exercise jurisdiction upon subjects of
this nature, it will absorb qfl the functions of government, -and leave nothing for the legislative or executive
departments to perform.
IAF,, contra.

The position which we are to meet, is understood to
be this, T11at the possession of property ,ly a foreign
soyereign., without the limits of his juigsdiction, and
within the limits of the United States, precludes all euquiryi:nto the title of the thing within his possessiqn.
This principle, we say, is unfounded.

The general

vule a that 4a sovereignty is strictly local, sand ,mnot

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
be exercised beyond the territorial limits. 'This
flows scgoo,-im
being supreme .xfrQm the nature of sovereignty, which
power, cannot exist where it is not supreme. h Cranch, eHANG
279, Rose a. Himely. There is no instance of its actual
T.
extra-territorial operation, except where by fiction,..of AI'ADDfOI'
fa vit is supposed to be territorial, or at most where &OTInoisit 'exclusively operates upon its own subjects. 'The
household of an ambassador is supposed fo be within
the territorial jurisdiction of his sovereign. Vattet 4A8'
.Vartiin 228,,230.
In other respects theL rights of an ambassador are
his own rights founded in consideratioqs appertdining
exclusively to the ambassadorial character. In the
vessels belonging either to his nation. or to himself; he.
may exercise, o4 the hig4- seas, a limited jurisdiction.
-The same principle operates here. The ship is considered as part of his territory, , But in this case- his j'.u,
risdiction extends' ove?- his own subjects only. His
armies- abroad are, also subject'to his ,jurisdiction,,but
this, is the.result of positive compact, withoutowhch

they cannot go abroad.

The general pinciple then teing in our favori our

ad'Versarieq must show the exception,

Whatever is within the extent of'a country, is Within
the authority of its sovereign, and if any dispute arises
concerning the effects within the country or passing
through t,-it must be decided by the judge of the place,.
P1 t..-4A .-

Unless the case now before the court bp an exception,
this rule is upiversal. It grows it of hh first piincipies of government, Which in giviiig security assumes
iurisdiction.
The general auth.rity ovepthe property, of foreign,
ers is asabsolute as over the property of subjects'.
The arguments in-favor of'the exception are drawu
rather from inconvenience than from ptinciple, butcanhot be supported upon either ground.
As itregards Ahe private property of the sovereign,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SCHooNER

Ex-

why not assume jurisdiction? Because it is said, it

would violate his dignity, inasmuch as it is to be presumed that he will never do wrong. Such a presumpV.
tion, contrary to the fact, may be calculated to give
fI'FADDON him weight at home, but can be of no use abroad. It
&OTHERS. IS not universally adopted even at home. The king of
England may be sued by monstrans de droit. States
may prescribe the mode in which they shall be sued.
This is a matter of internal regulation. Will you then
respect a foreign sovereign more than his own subjects
are bound to respect him?
CHAvGF,

If the sovereign of any free country should unlawfully seize the goods of one of his subjets, he would be
liable in his pri'ate capacity like any other person. As
regards the public property of a foreign sovereign, why
should there be any distinction, where the only object
of the suit is merely to ascertain the right.
His public service may suffer, but will you respect
that service at the expence of the rights of your own
citizens
But it is said, if you arrest, this vessel you may ar.
rest a fleet. This is true-and when a foreign fleet
shall have been created by the plunder of our own citizens, let it be arrested.
But the danger of such a case is remote and improbable. The libel must be supported by oath and probable
cause. A judge would not hastily direct process aganit
a fleet.
But consider the inconvenmencies on the other side.
Your own citizens plundered. Your national rights
violated. Your courts deaf to the complaints of the injured. Your government not redressing their wrongs,
but giving a sanction to their spoliator8.
The argument of our opponents allows no remedy to
the citizen although -dispossessed of his property within
the limits of our own territory Although the ship

.hould have been seized, in the Delaware, and converted
into a public- armed vessel, we are supposed Io have no
redress. It does'not appear upon, the face of the present proceedings, that tis was not the case.

FEBRUARY TERM 8.7-

129

The argument of inconvenience is equally hpplicable SCH 0&NER
to cages in which our own laws authorize process to
Mxissue. Thus, under the act of June Sth, 179", § 3, 'Vol; CAIGE.
3. p. 89, if any ship shall be armed in any of the waters
T.
of the United States, with intent to be employed in the M'A1DnTo
service of any foreign state to cruize against the 6ub- &oTHr.s.
jects of another foreign state with whom the United
States are at peace, such ship shall be forfeited. So
also in case a foreign armed ship should be found smuggling. In cases of tort then, there is a remedy against
the public armed ship of a foreign sovereign; It is
obvious also that there must be such remedy in cases of.
contract. As in the case of material men for repairsBottomry and mortgage-wreck and pledges. If -he
may pledge, the pledge may be proceeded against. If
then there are cases both of tort and contract in which
there is a remedy, why not in this?
It isn vain to urge against the rnght of proceeding.the nc6iveniences that/may result from the itode.
On principle, then, there is no foundation for the ex.
ception. Nor is it warranted by authoritya
Vattel, . 2, § 83, says " any sovereigns have
cfiefs, and other properties, in the lands of another
"prince they therefore possess them 2n the inanner. of
i"other sndi-mduals." Thus the kings of England- did
homage for the lands they held in Fraice
Mfartins (p. 85, t82, Boak 5, sect. 9) says that fhi
supreme police extends over the property of a sovereign.

The ca.es of Glass v. Sloop Betsy, 3 Dall. 6-Rose v.
Kinely (atd HBdson7 -. Guestier, A, Cranch -079. Thd
Cosmopolite, 3 Rob. 209, and the authority of .8zlmt
245, 2 6, affirm the right, in certain cases,.of examin.
mg the legality of the prizes of foreign sovereigns.
Prizes are made for account of the sovereign: In
England they are distributed according to the Drize
act; but if made by a non-comnimsioned vessel, theY
are droits of the admairalty
VOL. VIE1
is

SUPREME COURT. U S
The possession of the captors is the pussession of the
sovereign. In these cases therefore the right of the
&NGE sovereign to the thing in his lossession is subjected to
judicial investigation.
V.

auiOONER
FIXC

Al'rFADDON
&OTHERS.

Bynkershoek upoil Ambassadors, 40 to 46, expressly
states that the property of the sovereign, public and
private, is subject to the authority of the judge of the
place. 2 Rutherford 476, 382. The case of the Swed,
ish convoy is also an authority to the same effect.
The Constitution of theUnited States, Art. 3, sect. 2,
expressly gives the courts of the United States jurisdiction in cases between citizens and foreign states.
The cases cited on the other side refer only to suits
brought directly against a sovereign, or to compel his
appearance. But such cases are wholly inapplicable,
because not brought in consequecce of your jurisdiction
over the thing within your territory, but to create a
jurisdictiom over the person which is without it.
In Massachusetts suits between foreigners by process
of attachment, cannot be sustained, but the right to the
thing in dispute, whether between foreigners or others,
will be ascertained there.
You- cannot draw to your jurisdiction tlbose who owe
you neither a local nor an absolute allegiance, but you
may enquire into the validity of every claim to a thing
within your jurisdiction.
This doctrine is peculiarly applicable to sovereigns:In the case Of Olmsteaa v. Rittenhouse's executors, (5
Cranch 115, under the name of United States v. Judge
Peters) the state of Pennsylvania contended that the
District Court had not jurisdiction, because she, as a
,sovereign state,,ciaimed the money in the hands of the
executors, and was really the party interested, but
this court decided that, as tile state was not ostensibly
a party, and as the thing was within the jurisdiction of
the Court, the District Court should proceed to enforce
its sentence, thereby clearly marking the distinction
between a suit against a sovereign, and a process
against a thzng claimed by a sovereign.

FEBRUARY TER''ia2.

,tSi

HARPER, on the same szde.
Two questions are raised in this case.

SCHOON=
Fx-

CHANGEI

IV.
I. Whether this be a case of admiralty jurisdiction, m'FAD
OX

and

2. Whether a judicial remedy can be given for a
wrong done by a foreign sovereign.
:I. The libel.states the seizure to have been made
,' during the voyage"--and the answer to the claim denies that she was seized in port-it follows therefore
thiat she must have beer seized upon the high seas.
. As to the general power to interfere in case of an
illegal seizure mad6 by a forign sovereign.
Sovereignty is absolute and universal. This is the
general rule. But iE is contenued that there is an exception in four, cas. s.
1. As to the Persor of a foreign sovereign.
2. As to his anmassadors.
S. As to his armies, and

1. As to his property-which last is said to be -an
inference from the three former cases. But the three
former cases are all- founde4-upon consent, and the latter is not; consequently there can be no analogy between them. Besides, these cases are not exceptions to
the sovereignty, but merely exemptions from the ordinary judicial process, by consent of the sovereign. If P
foreign sovereign comes sei;retly into the country, he is
not protected from ordinary process, but when 'he
comes openly in his character as a sovereign, an assent
is implied, and lie comes with all the immunities
incident to his dignity, a6cording to the common understanding of the word. All the cases supposed to be
against us are founded upon consent. Hynkerswek also
places it upon the ground of consent, and he is support.
ed by Barbeyrac and Galliant.

&OTHERS;

SUPREME COURT U. S.
cooxzn The positive authorities against the exemption of tht
property of the sovereign from the ordinary judicial
ExCHAN_ GE process, are Bynkershoek 25, Vartins 182, and 2 Rutherford 176. The Constitution of the United States takes
&i'FALmDN- for granted the suability of the states, and merely pro&OTliziS. vides the means of carrying the principle into effect.
The exemption of the sovereign himself, his ambassador and his armies,-depends upon particular reasons
which do not apply to his property, nor to his ships of
war.
PiNKNEY, .Xitorney General, -in reply'.
When wrongs are inflicted by one nation upon another, in tempestuous times, they cannot be redressed by
the judicial department. Its power cannot extend beyond the territorial jurisdiction. However unjust a confiscation may be, a judicial con(lemnation closes the judicial eye upon its enormity The right to demand redress belongs to the executive department, which alone
represents the sovereignty of the nation in its intercourse
with other nations.
The simple fact in tli case is, that an individual is
seeking, in the ordinary course of justice, redress
against the act of a foreign sovereign. But the rights
of a foreign sovereign cannot be submitted to a judicial
tribunal. He is supposed to be out of the country, although lie may happen to be within it.
An ambassador is unquestionably exempt from the
ordinary jurisdiction, but if lie commit violence it may
be lawfully repelled by'the injured individual-so if he
commit public violence he may be opposed by the nation. This right arises from the necessity of the case,
But as to ordinary cases lie is to be referred to the tribunalp of his own country. In cases where those tribunals cannot interfere to prevent the injury, the jurisdiction of the country fbr that purpose, may interfere,
but when the act is done, ani. prevention is too late, he
must be referred[ to is ow4 tribunals.
We claim for this vessel, an immunity from the ordi.
pary jurisdiction, as extensive as that of an ambassador4,

FEBRUARY TERI 18i
or of the Sovereign himself;,-but no furtheil.-If she ScHooNEP
attempt violence, she may be restrained.
FIXCHANGE

The constitution 'of the United States, decides nothing-it only provides, a tribunal, if a case can by pos-

sibility exist.

The statutes of the United States, are 1ii hogtility to
the idea ofjurisdiction.-Private vessels are. made liable
to confiscation, but public vessels are to be -driven away
The remedy is by opposing Sovere gn to Sovereigm,
not by subjecting him to the ordinary jurisdiction.
Tie jurisdiction over things and persons, is the same
in substance. The arrest of the thing is to obtain ju
risdiction over the person.
A distinction is taken between civil and territorial jurisdiction, civil jurisdiction is referred to consent,it binds all who have consented. Territorial jursdic
tion goes farther, it operates upon those who have not
assented-such as aliens-but the alfen must do sonething-he must come within the territory whereby ]tc
submits to thejurisdiction-so if lie purchases propeify
within the country, or sends property -nto the territory.
in ordinary cases, his assent is implied. But if the pro.
perty of an alien, be forcibly or fraudulently carried
within the territory, no consent is implied, and conse
quently there is no ground for jurisdiction.
If a foreign Sovereign be found in the territory, he is
not liable to the ordinary jurisdiction. Vattel places
his exemption on the ground, that 'he did not intend tb
submit to it.-Ruterford, on the ground of the asseni
of the other Sovereign.
The case of the Ambassador is precisely in point-is
,immunities -depend upon the implied assent. The reason is, that tie may be independent. Grotius, places it
apon the conventional, and Rutherford, upon the natur,
al law of nations.
So in the case of the passage of troops through a
neutral territory, the permission to pass, implies a compact, that they should -nloy all necessary immunities.

v.
MFADDON
&OTHERS.

SUPREME tOURT U. S.
SCH0oNtn From the nature of the case, they cannot be subject to
LxCHANGE

%'.
,MK'FADDON

the ordinary jurisdiction of the country, through which
they pass. To suffeV one of the soldiers to be arrested
for a debt due to a citizen of that country, would be inconsistent with the permission to pass.

AOTHERS.

We are asked, whence we infer the immunity of the
public armed vessel of a sovereign. We answer from
the nature of sovereignty, and from the universal practice of nations from the time of Tyre and Sidon.
Sovereigns are equal. It is the duty of a sovereign,
not to submit his rights to the decision of a co-sovereign.
He is the sole arbiter of his own rights. He acknowledges no superior, but God alone. To his equals, he
shows respect, but not subnnssisn.
This yessel is not the ordinary property of a soverex .- It is his natioatproperty-a public ship of war
duly commissioned. There is no difference in principle between such a vessel, and an army passing through
tln territory, She has the same rights. She has your
pirmission to pass, and you are bound to give her all
You gave her an asylum as
iecessary immunities.
'he pro erty of a great and powerful nation, you must
'not suffe.r her to be thereby entrapped in the fangs of a
municipal court. She was charged with public despatches, she visited your ports in itinere. It was a deflexion merely, that she might more effectually perform
her voyage. It was a mere passage through your juris.diction. Her commandler had an unquestionable right to
exclusive jurisdiction over her crew. In the eye of the
law of nations, she was at home, whether in your ports,
or upon the hi h seas. The exem)?tion from delay, is
more necessary than the exemption from final condemnation.
By the usage of states, no other evidence is required
of the property of a sovereign than his commission and
flag. This is strong evidence, that such property is not
subject to the ordinary jurisdiction of the country
Otherwise other documents would be required and would
be furnished. No others are required at sea, nor on
shore. This usage of nations is universally known,
and as the vessel sailed upon the faith of such a usage,

FEBRUARY TERM i82.
good faith requires that you should receive the flag and scHooNmu
commission as evidence of the character of the vessel.
EX_
CHANGE

This court will not decide this case upon the authori-

T.

ty of the slovenly treatise of Bynkershoek, or the ra- M'FADDON

vings of that sciolist Martins, but upon the broad prin- &OTiEInS
ciples of national law, and national independence. One
would as soon consult Gibbons or Hobbs, for the doctrines of our holy religion as Martins for the principfes
of the law of nations. Bynkershoek, upon this point,
diaws Is authorities from Dutch courts, and Dutch
jurists. Not one of his cases was adjudged, except that
cited from Huber. And in one of the cases, the states
general requested that the vessel should be discharged,
which had been arrested in Zealand, for a debt due from
Spain, saying that they would write to the Queen 9f
Spain, to pay her debts, or they would be obliged to issue letters of marque and reprisal,-whih was the proper course. The other cases were only abortive attempts to subject national property to the ordinary.jurisdiction of the country
The case of the Swedish convoy, w-as upon the grouna.
that the convoy resisted by force the right of search. It
was -warquotid hoe, and the seizure was made as prize
of war. But that case was never decided.
In the case of Glass v. Te Sloop Betsy, the privateers
commission was to capture the property of an enemy,
but she had captured that of a friend.-The court did
not subject the prrvateer to their jurisdiction, but the
prize which she had wrongfully made.
.March3d. .81 the Judges being present.
MxitsHA.L, Oh. J. Delivered the opinion of the Court
as follows
This case involves the very delicate and importantf
inquiry, whether an American citizen can assert, in an
American court, a title to an armed national vessel.
foundwithm the waters of the United States.
The question has been considered with an earnest solicitade, that the decision may conform to those prmnci

SJXREME COURT t. S.
scnrOidpn ples-of natinal and municipal law by which ft ought to
£iz-

be regulated.

CRiANCE

V.

In exploring an unbeaten path, with -few, if any, aids

from precedtents or written law, the court has found it
&oTHEits necessary to rely much on general principles, and on a
M'AADDON

a tram of reasoning, founded on cases in some degree
analogous to tns.
The jurisdiction of courts is a branch of that which is
pos.4essed by thd nation as an independent sovereign
power.
Thejurisdiction of the nation within its own territory
is necessarily exclusive and absolute. It is susceptible
of no limitation not inposed by itself. Any restriction
upon it, deriving validity from an external source, would
imply a diminution of its. sovereignty to the extent of
the restriction, and 'an investment of that sovereignty
tothe same extent in that power which could impose
such restriction.
All exceptions, therefore, to the full and complete
power of a nation within its own territories, must be
tPaced up to the consent of the nation itself. They can
tow from no other legitimate source.
_
This consent may be either express or implied. In
the latter case, it is less determinate, exposed more to
th.o uncertainties of construction, but, if understood.
tot less obligatory.
The world being edinposed of distinct sovereignties,
possessing equal,rights and equal independence, whose
mutual benefit is promoted by intercourse with each
othler, and by an interchange of those good offices which
humanity dictates and its wants require, all sovereigns
have consented to a relaxation in practice, in cases undor certain peculiar circumstances, of that absolute and
complctejurisdiction within their respective territorieg
which sovereignty confers.
This consent may, in some instances, be tested by
common usage, and by common opinion, growing out of
that usage.

FEBRUARY TERM4 18±2
A nation would justly be considered as violating its sbiaoowEU
faith, although that faith might not be expressly plightFxed, which should suddenly and without previous notice, CHANG
exercise its territorial powers in a manner not conso10.
nant to the usages and received obligations of the ci. m'FADD6N
vilized world.
&o
PEM
This full and absolute territorial jurisdiction being
alike the attribute of every, sovereign, and being incapable of conferring extra-territorial power, would not
seem to contemplate foreign sovereigns nor their sovereign rights as its objects. One sovereign being in no
respect amenable to another, and being bound by oblit
gations of the highest character not to degrade the dignity of his nation, by placing himself or its sovereign
rights within thejurisdiction of another, can be supposed to enter a foreign territory only under an express
license, or in the confidence that the immunities belonging to his independent sovereign station, though not expressly stipulated, are reserved by implication, and will
be extended to him.
This perfect equality and absolute independence of
sovereigns, and this common interest impelling them to
mutual intercourse, and an interchange of good offices
with each other, have given rise to a class of cases in
which every sovereign is understood to wave the exercise of a part of that complete exclusive territorial jurisdiction, which has been stated to be the attribute of every
nation.
1st. One of these is admitted to be the exemption of
the person of the sovereign from arrest or detention
within a, foreign territory
If he enters that territory.,with the knowledge and li.
cense of its sovereign, that license, although containing
no stipulation exempting his person from arrest, is universally understood to imply such stipulation.
Why has the whole civilized world concurred minss
construction? The answer cannot be mistaken. A foreign sovereign is not understood as intending'to subject
himself to ajurisdiction incompatible with his dignity.
and the dignity of his nation, and it is to avoid this subVOL. VI19

SUPREME COURT U. S.
scHooxi;Rjection that the license has been obtained. The chaExracter to Whom it is given, and the, object for which it
CHANGE is granted, equally reqire that it should be construed
v.
to impart full security to the person who has obtained it.
MCFADDox This security, however, need not be expressed, it is im-&OTHERS.

plied from the circumstances of the case.

Should one sovereign enter the territory of another,
without the consent of that otner, expressed or implied,
it would present a question which does not-appear to be
perfectly settled, a decision of wich, is not necessary
to any conclusion to which the Court may come in the
cause under consideration. If lie did not thereby expose himself to the territorial jurisdiction of the sovereign, whose dominions he had entered, it would seem to be
because all sovereigns impliedly engage not to avail
themselves of a power over their equal, which a romantic confidence in their magnanimity has placed in
their hands.
9d. A second case, standing on the same principles
with the first, is the immunity which all civilized nations allow to forein ministers.
'Whatever may be-the principle on which this immunity is established, whether we consider him as in the
place of the sovereign lie represents, or by a political
fiction suppose him to be extra-territorial, and, therefore, in point of law, not within the jurisdiction of the
sovereign at whose Court lie resides, still the immunity itself is granted by the governing power of the nation
'o which the minister is deputed. This fiction of ex..
territoriality could not be erected and supported against
the will of the sovereign of the territory He is supposed to assent to it.
This consent is not expressed. It is true that in
some cotitries, and in this among others, a special
law is enacted for the case. But the law obviously
proceeds on the idea of prescribing the punishment of
an ft previously. unlawful, not of granting to a foreign
minister a privilege which he would not otherwise
possess.
The assent of the sovereign to the very important
and extensive exemptions from territorial jurisdiction

FEBRUARY TERM 1i2.
wich are admitted to attach to foreign ministers, Is
implied from the'considerations that, without such exermption, every sovereign would hazard his own dignity
by employing a public minister abroad. His mini6tei

would owe temporary and local allegiance to a foreign

SCHOONER
FxCHANGm

v.
m,ADDoNf

prince, and would be less competent to the objects of hi8 &oruziRs.
mission. A sovereign committing the interests of his.
nation with a foreign power, to the care of a person
whom he has selected for that purpose, cannot intend to
subject'"is ministerin any degree to that power; and,
therefore, a consent to receive him, implies a consent
that he shall possess those privileges which his principal
intended he -should retai-privileges which are essential to the dignity of his sovereign, and to the duties he.
is bound to perform.
In what cases a minister, by infracting the laws of
the country in wich he resides, may subject himnself'to
other punishment than will be inflicted by is own sovereign, is an inquiry foreign to the present purpose. If
Ills crimes be such as to render him amenable to the
local jurisdiction, it must be because they forfeit the
privileges annexed to h character, and the minister,
by violating the conditions under which he was received
as the representative of a foreign sovereign, has surren,
dered the immunities granted on those conditions, or,
according to the true meaning of the original assent, has
ceased to be entitled to them.
3d. A third case in which a sovereign is understood
to cede a portion of his territorial jurisdiction is, where
he allows the troops of a foreign prince to pass through
his dominions.
In such case, without any express declaration waving jurisdiction over the army to which this right of
passage has been granted, the sovereign who should attempt to exercise it would certainly be considered as violating his faith. By exercising it, the purpose for
which the free passage was granted would be defeated,
and a portion of the military force of a foreign independent nation would be diverted from those national objects and duties to which it was applicable, and would be
withdrawn from the control of the sovereign whose
power and whose safety might greatly depend on retain,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
sCHOONR Ing the exclusive commanu and disposition of this force.
E.5
The krant of- a free passage therefore implies a wavei,
cUAf.GE of all jurisdiction over the troops during their passage,
V.
and permits the foreign general to use that discipline,
B'FADDON and to inflict those punishments which the government
&,T=Rs. o his army may require.
But if, without such express permit, an army should
,be led through the territories of a foreign. prince, might
the jurisdiction of the territory be rightfully exercised
over the individuals composing this army?
Without doubt, a military force can never gain immuvities of any other description than those which war
gives, by entering a foreign territory against the will of
its sovereign. But if his consent, instead of being expressed by a particular license, be expressed by a general declaration that foreign troops may pass through a
specified tract of country, a distinction between such
general permit and a particular license is not perceived. It would seem reasonable that every immunity
which would be conferred by a special license, would be
in like manner conferred by such general permit.
We have seen that a license to pass through a territory implies immunities not expressed, and it is material
to enquire why the license itself may not be presumed?
It is obvious that the passage of an army through a
foreign territory will probably be at all times inconvenient and injurious, and would often be imminently dangerous to the sovareign through whose dominion it passed,
Such a practice would break down some of the most ae..
cisive distinctions between peace and war, and would
reduce a nation to the necessity of resisting by war an
act not absolutely hostile in its character, or of exposing
itself to the stratagems and frauds of a power whose integrity might be doubted, and who might enter the country
under deceitful pretexts. It is for reasons like these
that the general license to foreigners to enter the domin.
ions of'a friendly power, is never understood to extena
to a military force, and an army marching mnto the
dominions 6f another sovereign, may justly be considered as committing an act of hostility, and, if not opposed
by force, acquires no privilege by its irregular and nn-

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
proper conduct. It may however -well b~e questioneO SCHOOir.
Exwhether any.other than the sovereign power of the state
be capable of deciding that such military commander cHAirG
V.
is without a license.
M'PADDON

But the rule which is applicable to armies, does not &oTHERS.
appear to be equally applicable to ships of war entering
the ports of a friendly power. The injury inseparable
from the march of an army through an inhabited country, and the dangers often, indeed generally, attending
it, do not ensue from admitting a ship of war;without
special license, into a friendly port. A different, rule
therefore with respect to this species of military force
has been generally adopted. If, for reasons of state,
the ports of a nation generally, or any particular ports
be closed against vessels of war generally, or the vessels of any particular nation, notice is usually given of
such determination. If there be no prohibition, the ports
of a friendly nation are considered as open to the public ships of all powers with whom it is at peace, and
they are supposed to enter such ports and to remain in
them while allowed to remain, under the protection of
the government of the place.
In almost every instance, the treaties between civilized n ions contain a stipulation to this effect in favor
of vessels driven in by stress of weather or other urgent
necessity. In such cases the sovereign is bound by
compact to authorize foreign vessels to enter his ports.
The treaty binds him to allow vessels in distress to find
Tefuge and asylum in his ports, and this is a license
which he is not at liberty to retract. It would be difficult to assign a reason for withholding from a license
thus granted, any immunity from local jurisdiction
which would .he implied in a special license.
If there be no treaty applicable to the case, and the
sovereign, from motives deemed adequate by himself,
permits his ports to remain open to the public ships of
foreign friendly powers, the conclusion seems irresistable, that they enter by his assent. And if they enter by
his assent necessarily implied, no just reason is perceived by the Court for distiguishing their case from that
of vessels which enter by express assent.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SCHOONER

Mx-

CHANGE

V.
MC'ADON

In all the cases of exemption which have been reviewed,
much has been implied, but the obligation of what was
implied has been found equal to the, obligation of that
which was expressed. Are there reasons for denying
the application of tis principle to ships of war 7

&OTHERS.

In this part of the subject a difficulty is to be encountered, the seriousness of which is acknowledged, but
which the Court will not attempt to evade.
Those treaties which provide for the admission and
safe departure of public vessels entering a port from
stress of weather, or other urgent cause, provide in like
manner.for the private vessels of the nation, and where
public vessels enter a port under the general licepse
which is implied merely from the absence of a prohibition, they are, it may be urged, in the same condition
with merchant vessels entering the same port for the
purposes of trade who cannot thereby claim any exemption from the jurisdiction of the country. It may be
contended, certainly with much plausibility if not correctness, that the same rule, and:same principle are applicable to public and private ships, and since it is admitted that private ships entering without special license become subject to the local jurisdiction, it is demanded on
what authority an exception is made in favor of ships of
war.
Itis by no means conceded, that a private vessel really availing herself of an asylum provided by treaty,
and not attempting to trade, would become amenable to
the local jurisdiction, unless she committed some act forfeiting the protection she claims under compact. On
the contrary, mot' s mar be assigned for stipulating,
and according immunities to vessels in cases of distress,
which would not be demanded for, or allowed to those
winch enter voluntarily and for ordinary purposes. On
this part of the subject; however, the Court does not
mean to indicate any opinion. The case itself may possibLy occur, and ought not to be prejudged.
Without deciding how far such stipulations in favor
of distressed vessels, as are usual in treaties, may exempt private ships from the jurisdiction of the place, it
may safely be asserted, that the whole reasoning upon
which such exemption has been implied in other cases,

FEBRVARY TERMI

I81.,

applies with fall force to the exemption of ships of war SCHOONER

in this.

EXCHIANGL

" It is impossible to 1conceive," says Vattel, c that a
v.
Prince who sends an ambassador or anyotherministercan CADnoN
have any intention of subjecting him to the authority of a &o~mis.
foreign power, and this consideration furnishes an addtitional argument, which completely establishes the independency of a public minister. If it cannot be reasonably presumed that his sovereign means to subject him
to the authority of the prince to whom he is sent, the
latter, in receiving the minister, consents to admit bun
on the footing of independency, and thus there exists between the two princes a tacit convention, which gives a
new force to the natural obligation."
Equally impossible is it to conceive, whatever may be
the construction as to private ships, that a prince who
stipulates a passage for his troops, or an asylum for his
ships of war in distress, Ahould mean to subject his army or his navy to the jurisdiction of a foreign sovereign. And if this cannot be presumed, the sovereign
of the port must be considered as having conceded the
privilege to the extent in which it must have been understood to be asked.
To the Court, it appears, that where, without treaty,
the ports of a nation are open to the private and public
sips of a friendly power, whose subjects have also liberty without special license, to enter the country for
business or amusement, a clear distinction is to be
drawn between the rights accorded to private individuals or private trading vessels, and those accorded to
public armed ships which constitute a part of the military force of the nation.
The preceding reasoning, has maintained the propositions that all exemptions from territorial jurisdiction,
must be derived from the consent of the sovereign of the
territory, that this consent may be implied or exprus.
sed, and that when implied, its extent must be regulated by the nature of the case, and the views under which
the parties requiring and conceaing it must be supposed
to act.

RUPREM

COURT U. S.

SC1OOwiER

When private individuals of one nation spread themselves through another asbusmess or caprice may direct,
cHAwGn mingling indiscrmunately with the inhabitants of that
v.
other, or when merchant vessels enter for the purposes
D16FADnoM of trade, it would be obviously inconvenient and dange&OTHERS. ious to society, and would subject the laws to continual
infraction, and the government to degradation, if such
individualsor merchantsdid not owe temporary and local
allegiance, and were not amenable to the jurisdictiou of
the country. Nor can the foreign sovereign have any
motive for wishing such exemption. Ris subjects thus
passing into foreign countries, are not employed by
hin, nor are they engaged in national pursuits. Consequently there are powerful motives for not exempting
persons of this description from the jurisdiction of the
country in which they are found, and no one motive for
requiring it. The implied license, therefore, under
which they enter can never be construed to grant such
exemption.

Ex-

But in all respects different is the situation of a public armedship. She constitutes a part of the military
force of her nation, acts under the immediate and direct comiand of the sovereign, is employed by him m
national objects. le has many and powerful motives
for preventing those objects from being defeated by the
interference of a foreign state. Such interference cannot take place without affecting his power and his dignity The implied license therefore under which such
vessel enters a friendly port, may reasonably be construed, and it seems.to the Court, ought to be construed,
as containing an exemption from the jurisdiction of the
sovereign, within whose territory she claims-the rites of
hospitality.
Upon these principles, by the unammous -consent of
nations, a foreigner is amenable to the laws of the place,
but certainly in practice, nations have not yet asserted
their jurisdiction over the public armed ships of a foreign sovereign entering a port open for their reception.
Rynkershoek, a jurist of great reputation , hascndeed
maintained that the property of a foreign sovereign is
not distinguishable by any olegal exemption from the

FEBRUARY T91R

I81%.

property of an ordinary individual, and has -quoted se- sclloon-P.
nxveral cases in which courts have exercised jurisdiction
over causes in which a foreign sovereign was made a Cm.LAG
v.
party defendant.
Without indicating any opinion on-this question, it &OT.E..
may safely be armed, that there is a manifest-distinction between the private property of the person who
Lappens to be a prince, and that militaty force which
supports the sovereign power, and maintains the dignity and the independence of a nation. A pruice, by acquiring private property in a foreign country, may possibly be considered as subjecting that property to-the
territorial jurisdiction, lie.may be considered as so far
laying down the prince, and gssuming the character of it
private individual, but this he cannot be presumed to
do with respect to any portion of th armed-force,
which upholds his crown, and the natioh be S ehrusted
to govern.
The only applicable case cited by Bynkershoek, iS that
of the Spanish ships of war seized in Flushing for a debt
due from the king of Spain, In that case, the states
general interposed, and there is reason to believe;
from the manner in which 'the transaction is stated,
that, either by the interference of government, or the decision of the court, the vesse.Is were released.
"1nis case. of the Spanisb vessels is, it is believed, the
only case furnished by the history of the world, of ar.
attempt made by an individual to assert a claim against
a foreign prince, by seizing the armed vessels of the na.
tion. That this proceediag was at once arrested by the
government, in a nation which appears to have asserted
the power of proceeding in the same manner against the
private property of the p.-ince, would seem to furnish no.
feeble argument in support of the universality of the
opinion in favor of the exemption claimed for ships of
war. 4 The distinction made in our own laws between
public and private ships would appear to 'proceed from
the same opinion.
it seems then to the Court, to be a principle of public
law, that national ships of war, entering the port of a
friendly power open for their reception. are to be constVOL VIL
g

SUPREME COURT U. S
s-ooxnER dered as exemptedby the consent of that power fromits

Ex-

jurisdiction.

CHANGE/

Without 4oubt, the sovereign of .the place is capable
of destroying this implication. He may claim and ex&OTHEiRS. ercisejurisdiction either by employing force9 or by sub-jecting such vessels to the ordinary tribunals. But until such power be exerted in a manner not to be misunderstood, the sovereign cannot be considere- as having
imparted to the ordinary tribunals a jurisdiction, which
it would be a breach of faith to exercise. Those general statutory provisions therefore which are descriptive
of the ordinary jurisdiction of the judicial tribunals,
which give an individual whose property has-been wrested from him, a right to claimthat property in the courts
of the country, in which it is found, oughit nat, in the
opimon of this Court, to be so construed as to give-thein
jurisdictionla case, in which the sovereign power has
impliedly consbit±ld to wave itsjurisdiction.
BvPADDoN

The arguments ii fa-vor of this opinion which have
been drawn from the general inability of the judicial
power to enforce its decisions in cases of this description, from the consideration, that the sovereign power
of the nation is alone competent to avenge wrongs committed by a sovereign. that the questions to which such
wrongs give birth are-rather questions of policy than of
law, that they are for diplomatic, rather than legal discussion, are of great weight, and merit serious attention.
But the argument has already been drawn to alength,
which forbids a partikular examination of these' points.
The principles which have been stated, will now be
applied to the case at bar.
In the present state of the evidence and proceedings,
the Exchange must be considered as a vessel, which was
the property of the Libellants, whose claim is repelled by
the fact, that she issnow a national. armed iessel, commissioned by, and in the service of the emperor of France.
The evidence of this fact is not controverted. Butitis
contended, that it constitutes no-bar to an enquiry into
the validity of the title, by whiichthe emperor holds this
:vessel Every person, it is allegediwho is entitled to prolerty brought within the jurisdiction of our Courts, has a

FEBRUARY TERN 18i2.
right to assert his title in those Courts, unless there be scxoo4gR.
some law taking his case out of the general rule. It is
zxtherefore said to be the right and if it be the right, it is CHANGO.
the duty of the Court, to enquire whether this title has
v.
been extinguished by an act, the validity of which is re- ,'ADDON

cognized by national or mumcipal law.

&OTHERS.

If the preceding reasoning be correct, the Exchange,
being a public armed ship, in ihe service of a foreign sovereign, with whom the government of the United States
is at peace, and having entered an American port open
for herreception, on the terms on which ships of war are
generally permitted to enter the ports of a friendly power, must be considered as having come into the American territory, under an implied promise, that while
necessarily within it, and demeaning herself in a friendly manner, she should be exempt from. the jurisdiction
of the country.
If this opinion be correct, there seems to be a necessity for' admitting that the fact might be disclosed to the
Court by the suggestion of the Attorney for the United
States.
I am directed to deliver it, as the opinion of the Court,
that the sentence of the Circuit Court, reversing the sentence of the District Court, in the case of the Exchangbe reversed, and that of the District Court, dismissing
the libel, be affirmed.

ARCHIBALD. FREELAND
Ti.i2.
HERON, LENOX AND COMPANY

THIS cause having been argued by WiNDER, for
tbe Appellant, and P B. Mey, for the Appellees.
.6It the judges bezng present,

An account
sent

current
by a foreign
merchant to a
merchant in

this country &

Dtvma.., Justice, delivered the opinion of tbe Court notobjectedto
as follows

for two years,

