SUPREME COURT U. S

156

WzLCVH
V.

MARSHALL, Ch. .JIstice, stated it to be the opknion of
the Court, that the judgment of the Court below should
D.
bp affirmed. The writ of error is to the judgment
viLn. erally The refusal to re-instate the cause being nogenerror in law, the Court can see no error in the principal
judgment.

Judgment affirwed.

MARSTELLER AND OTHERS v. WPCLEA.

±sis.
March

2d.

Present....all the judges.
Co uERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
X
ote
avoid
the plea Columbia.
of thL statute

of

ioy

Thi s

a action of trespass for nesne profits after

Jont tenants, a recovery
to sh essathe present

in ejectment by the present Plaintiffs against
Defendant, who pleaded the statute of limitations, to wich the Plaintiffs replied, in substance,

all the Ph,
tifs a disability
ere un- that
der
to sue.

Christiana, the wife of one of the Plaintiffs, and

Elizabeth, the wife of another of the Plaintiffs, in whose
rights they sue, "were femes covert when the cause
-of action accrued, and have ever since continued
" femes covert"V-,, and -that kitty Hunter," one of the
"Plaintiffs 6- was a feme covert," and that the other
Plaintiffs, in whose right the suit was brought, were
infants at the time the cause of action accrued, and also
at the commencemeiit of the action. To this replication there. was a general demurrer and joinder, on
which the court below rendered judgment- for the Defendant.
U. SmiNuxs and R. I. TAYoRp for the Defendant in
error, contended,
I. That tl,e replication was bad, because it did not
show that an the Plaintiffs were entitled to sue, notwithstanding the statute of limitations. It did not state
that Kitty Hunter continued a feme covert until less
than five years next before the commencelet of tie

FBRUARY TtRV1 182.

suit. If her disability of coverture was removed.five

mAnsa'YL-

years before bringing the action, she was barred bythe xmRt&
statute, and the replication, being joint, if bad as to oTiEXRs
V.
one, is bad as to all.
M'CLEAN.

2. That upon a demurrer the court will give judgment----'
against that party who commits the first fault in pleading. The declaration states all the material allegations
under a - whereas"-a quod curn. It is all recital,
which is fatal upon, a general demurrer, or upon a mo.
,tion in arrest of judgment.
The court& of Virginia follow the practice of the
king's bench in England, where this exception has been
.always held good. . Sir 621, .fmiyon v. Shore. 2 Hen.
and .Mfun. 595-Hord.v. Dishman. 3 Hen. and.41in. 134.
•Moore's Odmr v. Dauney-id 271, Lomax v. Ford. 4,
Hen. and .Jelun. 277 Sym vo. Griffith.
F. I. Ln-z,

contra.

The objectii~h to the declaration is only an objection
to form. The statue of jeofails in Virginia does not
justify the cases cited from the Court of Appeals. Upoa
a demurrer to the replication the Defendant cannot
take advantage of an error in the declaration.
As to the objection that the replication does not stato
that.Kitty Hunter continued a feme sole, it is sufficienr
for us if we shoW that some of the Plaintiffs are not
barred by the statute. Those who were under a disability are not to be prejudiced by the negligence of
those who were not disabled. Joint tenants cannot sue
severally, they must join. I Tidd. Prac. 7 1 Sanders
291. N7Vote 4, Cobel v. Vaughan, 2 W Bl. 1077 -If the
plea i's bad as to some- of the Plaintiffs it is bad as to
all. 2 Sand. 49, 50. i Sand. 28.
TAY.LoR, ,in reply.

The case of Perry v. Jackson, !. T. R. i6, was the
first m which it was decided that the statute runs
against all the .joint Plailitiff4 if any of them were free
from disability. In that pase it was replied to the plea
of limitations, that one of the Plantiffs wap beyond
seas. and the replicatioq was adjudged bad,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WAISTEL-

E. I. Lnn. The dedaration states that some of the

LER &

Plaintiffs are infants, the plea was no bar to those

OTHERS

Plaintiffs. In the case of rerryv. Jackson the Plaintiffs were partners in trade. It was a voluntary association-.but here the Plaintiffs are joined by act of law,

v.
M'CEEAN.

Mlarch i3th.....8Ul the judges being present,
STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the court as follows

The Plaintiffs in error brought an action of trespass
quare clansum fregit-to which the Defendant in error
pleaded the statute of limitations. The replication m
substance states that, at the time when the cause of action accrued, Christiana, wife of one of the Plaintiffs,
.and Elizabeth, wife of another of the Plaintiffs, ; were
Stfeme coverts, and ever since have continued feme
4 coverts'"-and G; that Kilty Hunter," one of the Plaintiffs, 6"-was a feime covert;" and that the other Plaintiffs in whose right the suit was biought, at the time
when the action accrued, and also at the commencement
of the suit, were infants. To this replicition there is a
general demurrer and joinder on which the court below
gave judgment for the Defendant.
It is contended by the Defendant that this replication
is. insufficient, inasmuch as it does not allege that Kitty
Hunter continued a feme covert until within five years,
the time prescribed by the statute of limitations for the
pursuit of this remedy. And it is further contended,
that, even if the replication be good, yet the Plaintiffs
ought-not to recover, because the declaration charges
the trespass by way of recital-"c for that wzhereas the
Defendant with force and arms," &c., and not by positive and direct allegations as the law requires. On this
last exception the court do not intend to give any opimon, but unless the point were fully settled by authority, they would feel little inclination to sustain an objection which would seem directed more to the form
than the merits of the action.
The objection to the replication deserves more consideration. It is certainly a rule of pleading that a replication should of itsalf contain a full and complete answer to the bar,. and that a joint plea which is bad, affects with its consequences all the parties joMpng in it.

FEBRtARY TERM

si.

In the present case it may be true that Kitty Hunter 3I STLwas a feme covert'at the time when the action accrued, LER &
and yet it may be equally true that five years have
v.
elapsed since the disalility was removed. It was there- MCCLEA .
fore incumbent on the Plaintifs, not barely to shew a
coverture, but, by a proper averment, to shew its continuance to a time within which it would have been a
perfect avoidance of the bar. The objection then would
have been fatal in a several action brought by Kitty
Hunter.
But it is said that though the replication be bad as
to one of the Plaintiffs, yet it can only bar her- that
the infancy or coverture of the other Plaintiffs entitles
them to a recovery in thns action for the injury done to
them, and that, as parceners and tenants in common
are compellable to join in actions of this nature, it
would be hard to affect them with the disability of a
co-tenant.
It seems, however, to be a settled rule that all the
Plaintiffs in a 'iuit must be competent to sue, otherwise
the action cannot be supported and the case of Perry
o. Jackson, citedfrom 1, Term Reports, 5169 decides that
a plea of the statute-of limitations, which is gdod as to
one partner, bars them both in a joint action. When
once the statute runs against one of two parties eiititled
to a joint action, it operates as a bar to such joint action.
It is therefore the opinion of the Court that as this
answer to the objection fails, the replication must be
adjudged insufficient, and of course the bar must prevail.
Judgment affirmed.

WELCH -o. LINDO.

M2
March.

W.

Present.....qll the -Audges.
ERRR to the Circifit Court'for the District Of The mere
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.
pro sso- of 3

