363

FEBRUARY TERM isis.

it receive countenance from some.remarks incidentally
thrown out in Bailli "v..JModiglianz, the current of
more recent authority, as well as of principle, cleaily

CAzE &
RIcHiuD

T.

points the other way.

DALTI*ORE

It may be further added- that as between the insured
and the underwriter tie existence of a lien on the cargo
for freight does not vary the legal responsibility of the
underwriter on such cargo afteran.abatndonment.

INS.

Co.

The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with
,o;.ots.

18W.

THE SCHOONER 3ANE

Feb.

17th.

THE UNITED STATES,

Preseut.....l the Judges except

TODD,

.

In a proseec.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Cir
apainst
tJof
for vo-a
that
esL"
reversing
Maryland,
of
district
cuit Court for the
of a law
of the District Court, which condemned the schooner latlon
of the itUrned
is not
States
Jane for violation of the non-intercourse act.
necessary to

NIcHoLsoN, for .9ppellant,
Contended that there ought to have been positive
proof of the identity of the vessel.

PINx:NiT, .ttorney General.
If these cases are to be likened to criminal proseci..
tions, and if the same strictness be required, it will be
Impossible to execute the laws. No proof was offered
on the part of the Claimant. But there is sufficient
proof of identity-she is the same kind of vessel, has
of
the same name, belongs to the same port, has a master of
time
the
and
cargo,
same
the same name, had the
her sailing from Port au Prince, corresponded with the
time of her arrival at Baltimore, allawing the umal
time for performing the voyage.

adducepositive

testimony of
the identity of
the vessel.

PSUFUHZ COURT. U S.
ScOn ONFIR

HARPER, fni re~ply.

JANE

V.
The Ufiited States are bound to make out full proof.
.TATES. Iff the fact be so, much better proof might ha~o been
had on the part of the United. States.
February 24th....WAsHINTON,
mon of the Court as follows,

delivered the opi-

This was an information filed in the District Court
of the Uziited States, for the district of Maryland,
against the schooner Jane and her cargo for a breach
of the law interdicting the commercial intercourse between the United Statqs and Great Britain and Frances
and their dependencies. The particular charge alleged
in the information is, that this vessel had imported into
the port of Baltimore from some place in the island of
St. Domingo, a dependmice of France, 1920 bags of
coffee in violation of the -,bove law. To establish this
charge two witnesses were examined on the part of the
United States, who concurred in testifying that they
were at Port an Prince in the island of St. Domingo,
from about the middle of August to the middle of September in the y:ear 1809, and that they saw lying there
a schooner called the Jane, of Baltimore, Vezey, master. That her cargo consisted of flour, which she discharged at that place and took in a quantity of coffee
in bags, and that she sailed from Port au Prince ahout
the 10th of September.
One of these witnesses thinks that the name "c Jane"
was painted on the stern of the vessel, but is not positive as to that fact, nor can either of the witnesses 'ay
that the vessel they saw at Port au Prince was the
same which was seized by the collector of the port 'bf
Baltimore.
The seizure of the vessel and cargo, which are the
subject of this cortroversy, was made between t4e 1st
and iSth of October, i809.
Uponthe above evidence, the District Court dismissed the information and ordered restitution of vessel
aud cargo. Th, writ of error is taken'tWilie sentence

FEBRUARY TERM I8M3.
Ipronounced by the Circuit Court, which, upon an ap- SCnOONER
peal, reversed that of the District Court and condemn- 3Aw.
v.
ed both th, vessel and cargo. For the Claimants it is
contended that the evidence in this case is merely pre- U.sTATEs.
sumptive, and is much too light to establish the fact,
necessary to be made out, that )he vessel seized by the
collector of Baltimore is the same vessel which was
seen by the witnesses at Port au Prince. If'the latter
part of the objection to the bividence be well founded it
is fatal to the sentence, because although presumptive
evidence is clearly admissible, and may of itself be sufficient to support, in many instances, even a criminal
prosecution, yet the circumstances proved oughit not
only to harmonize with each other, but they ought in
themselves to be so strong as fully to satisfy thp mind
of the fact they are intended to, establish.
In this case there is such a coincidence in the circumstances proved in relation to the vessel, the cargo, and
the voyage, as to impress the mind with a conviction,
almost ir'esistable, that the schoondr Jane.seen, by the
witnesses at Port au Prince, is the identical vessel
agalst which this prosecution is carried on. That vessel was a schooner, the reputed name of which at Port
au Prince was the Jane, of Baltimore,. Vezey, master;
.which-took in, at that port, coffee in bags and sailed
from thcuce about the loth of September. The vessel
an question is a schooner, bears the same name, was
commanded by a captun Vezey, her cargo coffee in
"bags,-and'she arrived at Baltimore between the 1st and
and loth of October, about the time when a vessel
whici had left Port an Prince on the loth September
might reasonably have been expected to arkve. It is
barely possible that the facts proved in this case should
apply to any other vessel than the one m question, and
in the absence of all explanatory evidence, which it was
po entirely in the power of the Claimants to have produced, is sufficient to deprive him of this slight ground
to stand upon.
It is true that the proof of identity might have been
Atrengthened by evidence. that this vessel sailed from
Baltimore, of the time when she sailed, the port 'or
which she cleared, and the cargo she -took out
with her. Utlt it 4pes not appear 4p this record, Reor

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SCnoOr u does it necessarily follow, that she sailed Irom BaltiJAirE. more on her outward -voyage, or that it was in the powv.
er of Lhe United States to prove any of the above facts.
U,STATr.S. On the other hand, nothing could bave been more easy
than for the Claimants to have proved them, and still
further to have,proved, if their case would have admitted
it, that the evidence on the part of the United Stat
did not appiy to this vessel.
The Court is of opinion that there is no error in the
sentence pronounced by the Circuit Court, and that the
same should be afrined -mith costs.

V'k

4th.

LEE v. MUNROE it THORNTON.
,Jbsent...JoHNsoxl, J. and TODD, J.

The United
States are not
bound by tb,

'0IS was an appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court for the district of Columbia, in a suit in Chance-

4eciuations ofry, brought by Lee against Thomas Munroe, superinthfei pnt,, tendant of the city of Washington, and William Thorn-

. rnstae or ton, the survivor of the late board of commissioners for
fact, "les it that city The object of the bill was to obtain a disclearly appear
that the agent count of 3,000 dollars upon a judgment,wiich Munroe,
M.2T.9g
as superintendant, had obtained against Lee upon his
scope of bi-, bond. The ground upon which this set-off, was claimauthority, and

ed, was this.

Morris and Nicholson were indebted to

% c"Po- Lee iii that sum by promissory notes, and offered paypacity ofagent ment in certain city lots, the. title whereof was in the
to make such
dcvlaration.

commissioners of the city iorris and Nicholson having paid money in advance to the commissioners, were,

as they supposed, entitled to demand from them the conveyance of the lots in question, under existing contracts
between the commissioners and themselves. Whereupon
Lee applied to the commissioners to know of them whether' they would convey the'lots tO him, upon the order
of Morris and Nicholson. This they promised to do,
and made afi entry of it in their journal. Lee then
agreed with Morris and Nicholson to receive the lots in
payment, and' upon receiving their order to the commissioners to convey them to him, gave up to Morris and
'Nicholson their notes for s,000 dollars, which were the

