SUPREME COURT U. S.
SCnoOr u does it necessarily follow, that she sailed Irom BaltiJAirE. more on her outward -voyage, or that it was in the powv.
er of Lhe United States to prove any of the above facts.
U,STATr.S. On the other hand, nothing could bave been more easy
than for the Claimants to have proved them, and still
further to have,proved, if their case would have admitted
it, that the evidence on the part of the United Stat
did not appiy to this vessel.
The Court is of opinion that there is no error in the
sentence pronounced by the Circuit Court, and that the
same should be afrined -mith costs.

V'k

4th.

LEE v. MUNROE it THORNTON.
,Jbsent...JoHNsoxl, J. and TODD, J.

The United
States are not
bound by tb,

'0IS was an appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court for the district of Columbia, in a suit in Chance-

4eciuations ofry, brought by Lee against Thomas Munroe, superinthfei pnt,, tendant of the city of Washington, and William Thorn-

. rnstae or ton, the survivor of the late board of commissioners for
fact, "les it that city The object of the bill was to obtain a disclearly appear
that the agent count of 3,000 dollars upon a judgment,wiich Munroe,
M.2T.9g
as superintendant, had obtained against Lee upon his
scope of bi-, bond. The ground upon which this set-off, was claimauthority, and

ed, was this.

Morris and Nicholson were indebted to

% c"Po- Lee iii that sum by promissory notes, and offered paypacity ofagent ment in certain city lots, the. title whereof was in the
to make such
dcvlaration.

commissioners of the city iorris and Nicholson having paid money in advance to the commissioners, were,

as they supposed, entitled to demand from them the conveyance of the lots in question, under existing contracts
between the commissioners and themselves. Whereupon
Lee applied to the commissioners to know of them whether' they would convey the'lots tO him, upon the order
of Morris and Nicholson. This they promised to do,
and made afi entry of it in their journal. Lee then
agreed with Morris and Nicholson to receive the lots in
payment, and' upon receiving their order to the commissioners to convey them to him, gave up to Morris and
'Nicholson their notes for s,000 dollars, which were the

FEB9RtTAR.Y'TER'j 19s.
LE.,
evidence of the debt. On presenting this order to the
V.
commissioii'ers, they' refused to convey the lots, unless
he would pay them the purchase-money due thereon to muwuoz.&
them from Morris and Nicholson, alleging that the ha- THOptTOY.
lance was against Morris and Nicholson in their account
with the commissioners. Morris and Nicholson shortly afterwards became insolvent.

C. LEE, for the .lppeIant.
This case cannot be distinguished from that of a martgagee, who knowing another person is about to lend.
money upon the mortgaged premises, informs him that
his mortgage is satisfied. If it be not, he shall be postponed to the 2d mortgagee. 2 -Fern.551. Ibbottson. v.
Rhodes. i F Wins. 391. MIocattao. 0142iaatroyd. 4
Dall. Levy v. Bank U. S.
The Commissioners were actin, within the scope, of
their authority It was their business to keep the accounts with Morris and Nicholson, and to know th. balance, it was also their business to convey the lots. P
is immaterial what was the real statb of accounts at-the
time. They acted at their peril.
Ti question is, who shall bear the loss 7 Not lie whot
was in no fault, but lie whose duty it was to know the
truth, and who by his negligence has brought this loss
upon the Plaihtiff.
JONES, COtrU.

This case does nlot depend Irpon the principle of first
and second mortgagee. The bill does not seek relief personally against the superintendent, or the survivingcommissioner, but. is intended to charge the public with
this loss. The commissioners were public officers; they
had no interest in the business. It was p. simple mistake of a fact on their part, which cannot bind the U.
States. It is an attempt to set off unliquidated damages
incurred by these public officers against a judgment
debt.
Feb. 26th....LIVINGSToN, J. delivered the opinion of

the Court as follows

368

SUPREME COURT U. S.

This'is a bill seeking relief against public officers
nominally, but against the United States in fact, for
MINROE &a mistake of the former in a representation made by
LLM
v.

T0itoN-

To.

them to the Appellant, by which it is allegeJ, that

he has sustained a loss, for the redress of which in
damages this suit is brought. It has been contended in
this case, that the Defendants having, in their public
character as commissioners of the city of Washington,
misinformed the Plaintiff as to the state of the accounts
between them and Morris and Nicholson, and thereby
induced him to relinquish a demand which lie had against
the latter, be is now entitled to have discounted from a
judgment, which they have obtained against him for the
use of the United States, a sum equal to the principal
and interest of ,tlhe debt which he lost by the confidence
which he placed in them , and this is supposed to he like
the case of a party, who being about to lend money on
real estate, ap lies to one who holds a prior mortgage to
ascertain whether lie has any incumbrance on it. There
isno doubt, in such a case, that if the person making
the applicatiojn discloses that lie is about lending money
on the estate, he will be pr6ferred to the first mortgagee,
should the latter deny his having a mortgage, or assert
tbt it is satisfied, and it seems agreeable to the dictates
of 'eason and good conscience, that his claim should be
postponed to that of a person whose confidence was inspired by the misrepresentation of one, who was acting
for himself, and every way competent to anform him of
the truth. But in all the cases which have been decided
on this principle, the fraud, for such it is supposed to
be, 'has been practised by a party who has himself an
interest in the subject-matter of inquiry, who cannot well
be mistaken, and whose conduct therefore ought to be
conclusive on him, wheti the rights of third persons
come in question. It is, however, not known to time
Court, that the same rule of decision has been extended
soas .to affect the interests of principals, and particularly of the public, in consequence of similar histfakes
made by an agent, nor is it reasonable that such extensiomi should take place, ,urless it most manifestly appear
that theagent was acting within the scope of his authority, and was empowered, in his capacity of agent, to
make the declaration or representation which is relied on
as the ground of relief. In the present case, the Defendants werr employed and authorized by the public to

FEBRUARY TEUM isis.

$9

sell and make contracts for the sale of certain lands ly-

zzt

Lng within this district. In pursuance of these powers,
I.
they had made contracts with Morris and Nicholson, Mwziq6 &
who having advanced a considerable suia of money, were moRWin thie habit of directing the Defendants from timnp tQ
qoi.
time, to convey certain of the lots winch they had con?tracted for, 'to the persons named in such orders. The
commissioners-supposing that Morris andNicholson had
not yet received titles to land equal in value to the sum
which they had advanced, told" the Plaintiff that if he
would obtain an order from them for certain lots, they
should be conveyed to him. But in a day or two after,.
they discover that Morrms and Nicholson had already received deeds for lots to the whole amount of the sum
which they ad advanced, and give notice of this fact to
thu Plaintiff, offering however to convey to him the lots
n,question, on his paying for them at the rate expressed'
in their contract with Morris and Nicholson. The Courtwill not inquire whether the Plaintiff really suffered any
injury from the confidence which he placed in the commissioners, or whether he lost his remealy against Morris and Nicholson, (of which very -serious "doubs iMay
well be entertained) but a majority of the Judges are of
opinion, that the communication made by the commisiners to the plaintiff, was altogether gratuitous, and
that not being within the sphere of their official duties,,
the United States cannot be injured by it, and that theDefendants could not, without rendering themselves per.
sonally liable to the public, have made a title to the
P-4intiff after a discovery of the -mistake which they
had made, but on the terms proposed by them or -in
other words, that the United States could not, iy any
declaration of the commissioners proceeding from a mista e, lose the lien which was secured to them by the
contract with Morris and Nicholson, for the stipulated
price of this property If the. commissioners acted
fraudulently, which is not pretended, they maybe per.
qonally liable in damages to the Plaintiff, but if it were.
a miste, and such it is represented to be, the Court
hag.already said that the interests of the United States
canpot,. and ought not, to be affected by it. Were it
otherwise, an officer entrusted. with the sales of public
lands, or enpowered to make contracts for such sales,
might by inadvertence, or incautiously giving information to others, destroy the lien of his principals on very
VOL. VII.
4s

SUPREME COURT I. S.

BiMd

valuable and large tricts of real estate, and ttven ProIBn
duce alienations of' them without any consideration
w.
1 iu oR& whatever being received. It is better that-an individual
THORN- should now and-then suffer by such mistakes, than to
introduce a rule against an abuse, of whlh, by improTON.
per coIlusions, it would be very difficult for the public
to protect itself. It is the opinion of this Court, that the
decree of the Ciecuit Court be affirmed.

HERBERT AND OTHERS
Feb.

WREN AND WIFE AND OTHERS.

15t.

Present...All the Judges except ToDD, J,
ERROR to the Circuit Court.for the district of
courts
Columbia, sitting at Alexahldria, in a suit in Chancery
Chanceryof
hve conCeurbrought by Richard Wren, and Susanna, his wife, who
re4- jurisdie- was the widow of Lewis Hipkins, deceased, and John
and Westley Adams, her trustees, against W' Herberti
with
ccases of T. Swann, R..B. Lee, and W B. Page, (trustees of
14ower, especi- Philip R. Fendall, deceased) atid E. 1. Lee. Jos. Deane
Greens
41iy where.tition, disco- and F, ,reen,
count
The case was
ed-andin

-jiery, isorprayae;

stated by MARSHAL,

Gh, T. (in de-

liverifig the opinion of the Court) as follows:
Tins suit was brbuglt by Richard Wken, and. Susanahouldbegiven na, his wifej formerly the wife Qf Lewis Hipkiis, praytk lieu of ddwmg that dower may be .asgned her in a tract of land
er.
Iadeviseof of which her former husband died seized, and which
has since been sold and conveyed to the Defendant, Joandm totgra to the
widow, appear seph Deane, or that a just equivalent in money may be
of sale where
the paftieg are
sumin thgras

fro"'circum- decreed
intended m
lieu of dower'.
she mustmake

her eleeton,

The

her in lieu thereof,

material circumstances of the case are these.

Lewis Hipkins being seized as tenant in common
and cannot
with Philip Richard Fendall of one thn'd of a tract of
kebOth.
join
l"ur lying in the county of Fanfa~x Iiy his dted exeerawife
hosbasd
in land

