FEBVIUARY TERM isis,

589

a case. It may be admitted that at common law this is ivNGsTON
not such a judgment as Niill support a writ of error.
V.
But in the civil law, -in equity, in admiralty and ecclesiastical cases, every decree or sentance of dismissal noRGEmay be appealed from. But it is said not to be a final Nois.
sentence, because the Court below may rescind it at any
time. A decree that a .udgment shall be finally staid
is a final decree, as much as a decree dismissing the
bill.
It is also objected, that if the cause be sent back, the
United States cannot have a hearing. But the United
States may intervene, which is a process analogous to
a bill of interpleader. It is not true that they cannot
intervene but as auxiliary to the Plaintiff or Defendant. This is shewn by Potnier, cited by the attorney
general. He speaks throughout of the. right of the
third person who intervenes. But if the United States
cannot intervene without .joinng one or the other party,
why not join the Dt-fendant who claims under the United States? If his. defence is imperfect, why not help
him'? If collusive, why not make a better ?
Even under the Roman civil law, the zmCi ron himself cannot by rescript affect the property of -a person
Code, tit. 4. Corp.. Tur cix.
wlio has not been heard
vol. 2, p. 258.
Arfarch i6th....The counsel for the Appellant dismissed
his writ of error, and prayed a nzanulamus nis. to the
judge of the District Court of Orleans in the nature of
aprocedenulo, which was granted.
,#Xandamus inst awarded.

OTIS v. BACON.
-March

ISM
12th.

Absent....ToDD, .
ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of the By

the 11th

state ot Massachusetts, in a case involving the construc- section of the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
tion of an act of congress, and the justification of an
v.
officer of the United States, claiming justification under
BAcoN. such act the decision of the Court below being agamst
the justification thus set up.
OTIS

act of 25th
April, 1808,
Vol.9, p.I o, The case was
the no
collector
had
right to having obtained
.a. ao
rah
from Baltimore

this: Bacon, the Defendant' in error,
permission to import a cargo of flour
into the port of Barnstable, arrived
and cargo after
with his cargo at a place called the Mud-hole in the
her
at distrt and port of Barnstable on thesp 2d Oof October,
er arrival
prt
of_-mJ
i ,t ecl
destinationun. 1808, and on the 3d obtained from Josph Otis, the colder a suspicion lector of the port, a permit to land the cargo. On the
thatendsheto i- next day the vessel and cargo were seized by Simeon
late the eta- Crowell, the inspector of the port. Bacon called at the
bargo;
and collector's iffice to enqcare into the cause of the seizure,
such detention
could not be and was informed by Joseph Otis, the collector, that he
instfied by in- had not authorized it. But William Otis, the deputy
structionsfrom
the secretary collector, in answer to an offer by Bacon to give bond
of the tre.su-and security to any amount if he would release the vesynor by theI
cuffi-matinntfS and cargo, saud " I have got your vessel and I will
,he president. kecp her."
Bacon then abandoned the property to
*W d!a.iOtis, the Plaintiff in error, and made a protest
and abandonment before a notary public. On tie 3d
day after the sejzure, Crowell removed the vessel to
Bass river, si miles south-east of the Mud-hole, and
on the 13th of October 233 barrels and 4,9 nalf barrels
of the flour were landed and stowed in Crow:.ll's house.
The vessel and the. residue of the cargo was afterwards
caried away by persons unknown, and the cargo sold
liq
the. West Indies
Bacon brouglt his action of trover against Joseph
Otis. the collcctor, William Otis, the depity collector,
and Simeon Crowell. the inspector. Joseph Otis died
before the tral, and Crowell was never taken.
At the trial William Otis, the Plaintiff in error, relied on the lith section of the act of congress of the
251h qf.-pril. 1808, Tol. 9. p. 150, by which it is enacted, "6That the collectors of the customs be, and they
, are. hereby respectively authorized to detain any yes"sel ostensibly bound with a cargo to some other port
"of the United States, whenever, in their opinions, the
,intention is (o violate or evade any of the provisions,
"of the acts laying an embargo, until the decision of

FEBRUARY TERM [813.
-the president of the United States be had thereupon,"
and offered in evidence certain letters from the secretary of the treasury, containing instructions to the collector, and stating that the president had confirmed the
detention of the vessel, also written orders from Joseph
Otis, the collector, to Crowell, the inspector, to seize
the vessel and land the cargo. And- also offered evidence that an unusually large quantity of flour had been
imported into Barnstable about the same time, and also
evidence of the declarations of the mate of the vessel
the day before she was carried off, all of which evidence was rejected by the Court.
The judge instructed the jury that if they believed
the testimony relative to the declarations of William
Otis, and the other circumstances, it maintained the issue on the part of Bacon.
And also, that the collector had no right, under the
circumstances, to detain the vessel, she having arrived
at her port of destination and obtained a permit to unlade.
And further, that if the collector had power to detaif t
the vessel, his authority did not extend to the seizure
of the cargo, which seizure was, of itself, unlawfu1, and
a conversion of the cargo.
And that if Bacon had been aiding in forceably rescuing the vessel and cargo, and had obtained any benefit
from it, the verdict must be for the Defendant.
The Defendant took a bill of exceptions, and, the
verdict and judgment being against him, brought his
writ of error under the 25th section of the judiciary act
ef 1789.
JoNE.s, for thc Plazntiff in error

The declarations of the Ddfendant were not sufficient
evidence of the trover and conversion, and there was
no evidence that he did any act. The judge ought to
have left the jury to draw their own inference from
those declarations.

OTIS

V.
BACON.

SUPREME COURP U. S.
OTs

1v.
BACON.

The vessel had not in fact arrived at her port of destination. Her clearance was for Yarmouth, hvldh, although within the district of Barnstable, is six miles
distant, she might even have gone to Provincetown on
the other side of Cape Cod.
Part of the defence was that the vessel was carried
off by collusion with the PlaintifF, and yet the judge
rejected the principal evidence which connected him
with the transaction, the declarations of Martin, the
mate, who ran away with the vessel and sold the cargo
at Nevis.
The judge also rejected the evidence tendinF to show
the motives for a fraudulent voyage, and the grounds
of suspicion which the collector had,
He rejected also the letters of instruction from the
secretary of the treasury, and the letter giving notice
that the president had confiried the detention of the
vessel, which, even if they were not authorized by law,
were yet good evidence ip mitigation of damages.
AmCit and P B. KEY, contra.

If the collector had no right to detain the vessel under
any instructions which could be givin, the letters offered in evidence must have been immatehial, and therefore inadmissible.
She was not ostensibly bound to any other port--she
bad arrived and obtained a permit to land her cargo.
Yarmouth was not another port, it was part of the same
port of Barnstable.
If a judge tells the jury that a fact is proved, when it
is not, it is not an err.r in law. The jury are not
bound to regard the-opinion of the judge as to the existence of a fact. The sufficiency of any fact or facts
to maintain the issue is a matter of law, and the instructionof the judge upon that point is proper.
As to the instructions, if they were merely conformable to the law thev were immaterial, and if contrary
to law) inadmissible.

FEBUARY TFMjM ul&593
J4 teet'er, what ipnot a justiication caiinot be given OTts
f4 e' dence in mitigation of damages. The damages
v,
h'e the vplue of the- article converted. Vindictive Bnrow.,
dai.ages are not tq be gwen, It is a mere ihdemnifcatil that is sought.
f*sthe declarations of Martin- lie is not prove4
to be the agent of the Plaintiff, Why was he not ex.
bmxned as a witness
JQNFs, in reply;

The judge ought to have told the jury that if they
ound Martin to be the Plaintiff's agnt, -then his doclarations were evidence, otherwise not.
The presidbnt's confirmation of the seizure was a
justification under the provisions of the law.
1'he .jury may gtve vihdictive damages in trover, if
they will. Evidence may therefore be given in mitigation;
lrqrch 1T7th..WYASHisGToi , 3.delivered the opinion
f the Court as'fqllows :
Tbis is an appeal from the Supreme Judicial Court
Qf the commonwealth of Massachusetts, under the 25th
section of the judiciary law. The judgment complained
of was rendered in an action of trover and conversionf
brought by the Appellee against. Joseph Otis, Crowell
an the Appellant for taking and convertiiig a quantity
of flour, the property of the Appellee. The trial took
place between the Appellee and Appellant, Joseph Otis
having died after the6 commencement of the suit, and
the process not having been served on Crowell. The
verdict haxing been in favor 6f the Plaintiff', thie Appellee, judgment was rendered thereupon ill his favor.
By a bill. of exceptions taken. to the charge of the
Court the following facts appear to have been given in
evidmce. That Bacon having obtained from the governor of Massachusvtts such, a certificate as authorized
him, under a provision in one of the embargo laws to
transport a cargo of flour from some :of the southerR
VOL. VIL
7

SUPREME COURT U. S.
oTis
v.
BAcoN.

states to the district of Barnstable, did accordingly phlecure such a cargo at Baltimore and arrived with it in
the schooier Ann, at a place calleo the Mud-hole, in
the port and district of Barnstable, on the 2d of October, 1808. On the 3d of the same month a permit to
land the cargo was granted by Joseph Otis, the collector of the port. The day following the vessel and catgo were seized by Crowell, the inspector of the port.
Bacon immediately called ht the collector's office to enquiretinto the cause of the seizure, and was informed
by Joseph Otis that he had not authorized it. But
William Otis, the deputy collector, in answer to an
offer made-by Bacon to give bond and security to any
9mount iflie would release the vessel, said, -I have got
your vessel and I will keep her." The offer to, give
bond not to go any where with -the vessel and cargo
was repeated, but -William Otis refused tq give her up.
Bacon then proposed to unlade the vessel and again offered bonds, which Otis, the"&Appellant refused, And
stud, c you ,may see the flour landed, but you shall not
have it after it is landed." The Appellee then abandoned the property to the Appellant, and the next day made
a protest anl abandoned before a notary public. The
seizure and detention of the vessel and cargo by Crowellis fully proved. On,the third day after the seizure
Crowell removed the veonl to Bass river, six miles
south-east of M'id-holi: and on the 13th, of October
s83 barrels ard 49 half barrels of the flour -were landed
and delivered to the Appellee. The vessel, with the
residue of the cargo, for the conversion of which residue this suit vas brought, was afterwards carried away
by persons unknown, and the cargo sold in the Welt
Indies.
Upon this evidenco the Court chargedthe jury that
if they believed the evidence of tlie declaration of William Otis, and of the other circumstances in this case
respecting the seizure and detention of the said vessel
and her cargo, it was sufficient inpoint of law to maintain the issue on the part of Bacon, aznd to prove the
conversion of the 298 barrels and 21 half barrels of
flour which were carrPd off in the vessel. That the,
collector had no right to detain this vessel and cargo,
she having arrived at her port of discharge and obtained a permit to unlade, and that even if he had a rigiht

FEBRUARY TERNI-I8I.

.595

too4etam the vessel, this authority did not extend to a
apizure of the argo, and that such seizure was of itself
a conversion, and that as the Defendant, Otis, had fail
ed'to make out a jutification, he must be considered as
a wrong doer and chargeable to Bacon for the value of
said flour. But that if the jury-should believe from the
evidence that Bacon aided or consented to the rescue
and carrying off the vessel and cargo, or W'ad by forceable or collusive means obtained anv benefit from -the
sale of said cargo in consequence of said rescue, then
the Defendants Otis, was entitled to a verdict.
It is apparent on the face of this recQrd that this
cause in- the Court below turned upon the construction
of the ith section of the -act of congress of the %5th of
April, i808, ch. 66, and tht question for -this Court
to decide is, whether that-Court erred in the opinion
given to the jury upon that statute. The words of thelith section are, ,that the collectors of the customs-be
;ind thei are hereby respectively authorized to detain
any vessel ostensibly bound with a cargo to some other
port of the -United States whenever, in their opinions,
-the intention is to violate or evade any of the provisions
of the acts laying an embargo, until the decision of the
president of the United States be had thereupon."
If this section authorized th0 collector to seize and
detain this vessel and cargo tinder the circumstances in
the case as detailed in this record, then the opinion of
the Court belbw was erroneous. If it gave no such authority, then it was clearly right.
The ,power of the collector to detain is confined.to a
vessel ostensibly bound with a cargo to some other port
of thp .United States. -Can a vessel, which has actually
arrived at her -port of discharge, and has received'from
the collector of the port a-permit to land her cargo, be
considered as a vessel ostensibly bound to some- 6tier
port of the United States? We think not. The reason for authorizing the detention Of a vessel before she
has arrived at her port of discharge does not apply to
one which has actually performed her voyage according
to the stipulations of the bolid.given by the owner at
the, port of her departure. . All rational grounds of'suspicion of an intended viiAqtion of the emnbargo laws is

oT'Is
V.
BACON.

GM=96-CtOUPlfTV

~sv
10.
SACoV.

6

S.

then.donp away, for if such an intention at any time
existed, it would be difficult-to assign to th master or
owner A motive for postponing the executiQn of it until
after the arrival of the vessel at her port of discharg,,
It is, therefore, scarcely to be conceived that such a
case was in the contemplation of the legislature.
It is true that this vessel had not arrived at Tarmouth, where her cargo was to be landed, at the time
bf the seizure. But it is sufficieit, in the opinion of the
Conrt, that she had arrived at the port to which she
wds destined, and had received a permit to land. The
voyke was as much at an end in relation to the question as ifshe had arrived within 100 yards of the wharf
at Yarmouth. It is, therefore,- the unaninoud opinion
bf tins Court that there Is no error in the opinion of the
Court below on the constructiongiven by that Court, of
the above statute.
Other exceptions were taken, in the courseof1 the tnal
of this cause, to the opinion of the Court below on rejecting certain evidence offered by the Appellant. But
this Court has no authority, under the law which aitthorizes this appeal, to notice any error except such as
appears on the face of the record and immediately respects the questions of validity of the constitution, treaties, statutes, commissiohsj or authorities in dispute.
The opinions of the' Court below, in relation to the
evidence offred by the Appellant, even if erroneous,
which we neither affirm noy deny, have nothing to do
with the construction of any statute 'of the United
States, and therefore they cannot he regarded by this
Court.
Judginenf affirned.

TIORNTON v. CARSON

sis.
F 4.

23d.

_____

,

.Absent....:roin, 1.
An aw rd is

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the dlstri

not iVid be
cause it i ..Columbia,

sitting at Washington.

df

