SUPREME COURT U. S.
j)wKny counsel for the Plaintiff, and that tfle judgment be
IV. reversed, and the case remanded to that Court with
BALTIdirections, to give the instructions prayed' for by the
monr
Plaintiffs, as stated in the bill of exceptions filed in the
INs. co. cause.

1813.
Feb.

15tb,

THE MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
&XANRIA
V.

HODGSON.

Present.....Olt the Judges except TOnD, J.
Upon an action
on

a valued
policy, if a
inisrelresen-

taton of tht

age & tonnage
orthe vessel,

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Cirandria, in a suit in equity, brought by the Marine Insuance Company of Alexandria against Hodgson, to
ewjoin so much of a judgment at law obtained by the
cuit Court for the district of Columbia, sitting at Alex-

htter against the former, as exceeded the value of the

whereby the
underwriters brig Hope as found by the jury in a special verdict
were induced upon a valued policy.
to ag e to a
hlgh
lbe a'valuaton,
d'n.
It was, contended in the bill that the age and tonnage
;tis at law and
a
ai
tin eauity. of the vessel was misrepresented, and that such tore-

preswntation' induced the Complainants to value the
ship at 10,000 dollars, when in fact she was worth only
3,300 dollars, as specially found by the jury on the trial at law- .She was represented to be about 250 tons
burthen, when she was only 161 tons, and to be from
six to seven years old when she was between nine and
ten years old.
The bill also alleged as a ground for relief, the refusal of the Court below to receive two pleas offered by
the Complainants oni the trial at law, the rejection of
which pleas had been assigned for error in this Court
when the cause was here last; (see .Ante. -vol. 6. p. 206)
but this Court thought the rejection of a plea no ground
for a writ of error, ai)d therefore gave no opinion as to
the propriety of admitting theme

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
The first of those pleas stated the above misrepre- AX.&=N&
sentation as to the age, tonnage and value of the vessel, INs. co.
T.
and averred it to be material, in regard to the risk of
the voyage. The othdr plea stated in general terms HoIDGSOV.
that the policy was obtained by fraud with itent to defraud the Complainants of the difference between the
true and the represented value of the vessel, which difference it averred to he more than 4,000 dollars.
Upon the answer of Hodgson' and the other evidence
in the cause the Court below dissolved the injunction
and dismissed the bill.
E. I. LE.,, for the .1ppeUants, relied principally upon
the evidence of the over-valuation, which lie said was
so excessive as to amount to proof of fraud. But even
if it were only a mutual mistake it is sufficient, to avoid
the policy. Park. 12, 196, 225. .Miller, S9, 43, 97
As to the equity of the case, he contended that the
pleas rejected by the Court of law, and which charge
fraud, being made part of this bill, are to be considered
as a charge of fraud, whidh is a ground of equitable jurisdiction. The rejection of the pleas, is of itself a
ground for a Court of equity to relieve, for the Com.
plainants have not yet had an opportunity to show the
fraud.
A Court of equity will relieve gainst mistakes upo
which contracts are founded.
All that the Defendant is entitled to upon a policy is
Mndeninity. He ought in equity to recover only the value and interest.
To slow that equity will relieve against error at
law, lie cited 2 Wash. 36, .Jlmbler v. RWy1d. Prec. in ch.
233, ient v. Brlzgman. 2 Vern. 116, Graham "v. Stamper d. Robertson v. Bell. Finch, 472. 2 Str 733,
Bur ow v. .Temino. 2 P Mins. .25. 1 Vez. Jr A47
2 Vez. i55. 5 Cranch, no, Hodgson v. .Martne In. CoSwANN and JoNs, contra.
The bill contains no charge of fraud. Straas and
lemds, who were the persons insured, are not made.

SUPREME COURT U. Si
parties. The pleas which are referred to in the bill
ixs. co. are not to be considered as containing an allegation of
V.
fraud which is to be answered. It is not a bill for the
IODGsoN. discovery of any fact winch the Complainants could not
havb proved at law. The object is to get rid of the
over-valuation. It is t6 try the case over again. The
answer'shows that there could be no fraud, for the insurred lost a cargo, worth 7,000 dollars, which was not
insured.
MARINE

The bill contains no equity Their remedy was at
law. In cases of insurance there is the same remedy at
law as in equity
But there wits no misrepresentation. It was only
the opinion of Maxwelli that the vessel was about 6 or
7 years old, and about 250 tons burthen. A representation must he the positive affirmation of some material
fact. There was no representation as to value--Hodgson only proposed that the vessel should be -valued at
10,000 dollars lie never affirmed that she was of that
value.
On the question of jurisdiction, and to show that the
alleged defence, if it-were a defence at all, was a defence at law, thiey cited 2 .Marshall, 679. The Court
did right in rejecting the pleas because they were complex, and offered after te law had been decided against
the Complainants. 2 Bur, 717
A valued policy is conclusive unless it be a cover to
a gaming contract, or be made witli a view to afraudulent loss. 2 Tern. 119, Woodward -o. Gnile. 3-Bl. Corn.
-35. 1 Marshi. 123, 287 aFBurr, 2228, Low 1. Peers.
Finch, 119. B. L Conp. v. Blake. Prec. in ch. 102. 6
Br Parl. ca. 417, 470. 1 Fonb. 167 Misrepresentation as to the age and tonnage was not material to the
risk: it was guarded against by the implied warranty of
sea-worthiness. No previous representation as to seaworthiness is necessary. 1 Marsh. 475.
C. LBE, i reply.
The real value of the vessel is conclusively fixed by
the verdict of the jury But if it were not, there is evi-

FEBRUARY TERM i83.
dence enough to show that she was not worth one half .uitln
the sum insured. The value thus fixed has shown the Izs. co.
v.
amount which will be an indemnity to the Defendant.
HOD GSON.

By the refusal of the Court to receive the pleas, the
Complainants were precluded from a just defence.
This Court has decided thr refusal to be no ground for
a writ of error at law. But we contend it is a ground
for relief in equity. It is also a sufficient ground of relief that the rule of indemnity has been 'Violated.
The valuation in the policy is only prmca facze evidence, and throws the burthen of proof on the underwriter. It shall be taken to be-so-fixed as to be an indemnity An over-valuation is of itself evidence of
fraud. If it .is intended to be an interest policy, it
amounts only to a contract for indemnity. Cowper, 3&3,
rfent 'v. Bird.
Even if the Defendant was mistaken, and both parties were equally ignorant, yet the Complainants are
M6tFerran T.
not liable for more than an indemnity
Taylor, 3 Cranch, 270.
There is no differonce in principle between insuring
double the value at one office, and rpaking double in.sgrance at two offices. The reason against both is the
same, viz, that the insured shall have only one indemni-

ty.
The law of liquidated damages does not apply,
The Defendant might have had a return of part of
the premim upon proving the mistake of the value.

Feb. i8th.... (absent iuvALL, J.)
MAusi-{AL,

Ch. . delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows
This uit was brought in the Circuit Court sitting in
chancery for'the purpose of obtaining a perpetual injunction to a judgment rendered agiinst the Plaintiffs
in favor of the Defendant, on a policy -of insurance effected by hun as agent for G. F Straas and othersi of

'SUPREME COURT U. S.
MA1ARXN

Richmond, on the brig called the Hope.

The allega-

iNs. co. tions of the bill are entirely unsupported by testimony,

V.
HODGSON.

except those which relate to the value of the vessel inThe 1lppe was valued in the policy at $ 10,000,
a--'i 8,000. were insured upon her. She is stated to
have been in fact.worth less than $u4,000.

sured.

Te underwriters contend that they were in the
practicp of refusing to ensure on any vessel more than
fiour fifths of her value, and that they were lea to make
flits insurance by a misrepresentation respecting the
value of the Hope. They therefore pray to be relieved
from so much of the verdict and judgment rendered
thereon as oxceeds that value.
On the part of the Defendants it is contended that tha
'laintiffl have not made out a case which entitles them
to the aid of a Court of equity
Without attempting to draw- any precise line to which
Courts of equity will advance, and whicl they cannot
pass, in restraining parties from availing themselves of
.judgments obtained at law, it may gafely be said that
any fact which clearly proves it to be against conscience to execute a judgment, and of which the injured
party could not lave availed himself in a Court of law;
or of which lie might have availed himself at law, but
•was prevented by fraud or accident unmixed with any
fault or negligence in himself or his agents, will justify
an application to a Court of Chancery
On the other hand it may with equal safhty be laid
down as a general rule that a defence cannot be set up
in equity which has been fully and fairly tried at law,
although itmay be the opinion of that Court that the
defence ought to have been sustained at law.
In the case under consideration the Plaintiffs ask the
aul of this Court to relieve them from a judgment, on
account of a defence which, if good any where, was good
at law, and which they were not prevented, by the act
of the Defendants, or by any pure and unmixed accident,
from making at law.
It will not be said that a Court of Chancery camnot
interpose in any sch.case. Being capable of imposing

FEBRUA.Y VEMRN isis.

337

its own terms on the party to :ion it grants relief,

MARtKr

tliere may be cases in which its relief oughit to be ex- Ts. co.
v,
tended to a person who might have defended, but has
omitted to defend himself at law. Such cases, however, HoDGs0f.
do not frequently occur., The equity of the applicant
must be free from doubt. The judgment must be one
of which it would be against conscience for the person
who has obtained it to avail himself.
The Court is of opinion that thi&is not such a case.
William Hodgson, as agent for the insured, applied
for insurance on the br.ig Hope on a voyage from St.
Domingo to her port of discharge in the Chesapeake,
and laid before the board the following certificate:
"cThis may, certify, that I was master of the schooner
Sophia of this place, and Alexander Burot supercargo
that while we were at the city of St. DomIngo in J uly
last, Mr. Burot purchased the brig Hope, of Boston,
and I was called on with a carpenter to examine her.
and found her to be a stout well built vessel of aboat
!50 tons, in good order, ain'd well found with sailsi
rigging, &c., was built in the state of Massachusetts,
and is from 6 to 7 years old. I left the city of St. Domingo on the 127th of July, and Mr. Burot expected to
sail from there about the 15th or ASth of August up the
coast to take in mahogony."
JAMES MAXWELL
Septr 2,th, 1799."',
Upon view of this certificate the vessel was valued at
$.10,000,and the insurance made at $ 8,000. - On, the

voyage the vessel was captured.
In fact the Hope was of 160 touis burthen, and was
from eight to nine years old. There is reason to believe that she was not worth more than $ 3,000.
It does not .appear that the loss was frauduleut or
that the cargo was insured.
The PlaintifI's contend, that this misrepresentation led
them to value the vessel much higher, and to ensure a
VOL. VII.
44

638

SUPR IME COURT U. S.

MiRIm& much larger sum on L M ihan they would have done hadl
iNs. co. a true description betn given of her size and age.
V.

To suppdrt this allegation they state their practice
-,------ never to insure on any vessel more than four fifths of
her real value, and their rule, which was known to
Hodgson, (he being himself one of the directors) to require that every order for insurance should be in writing, and should contain, among other things, " as
full a description of the vessel and voyage as can be
given."

RODGSbIW.

The answer asserts that when the certificate was laid
before the board of directors,.Hodgson was asked if lie
would ,vouch for its truth, which he refused to do
whereu-pon the board agreed to value the vessel at
-910,000, and to make the insurance required. He
hinself believed the certificate to be accurate, and is
persuaded that the insured entertained the same opinion. He does not think that the tonnage of the vessel
weighed much with the parties. It is not mentioned ii
the policy.
Straas and Leeds, whose agent Ilodgson Was, and
for whom the insurance was made, are not parties to
the bill.
No ifaud is proved on them other than what is to be
inferred from the error in the certificate given by Maxwell, nor ought their conduct to be decided on, or their
interests affected in a suit to which they are not parties,
although. they might have been made Defendants.
The Court will not undertake to say whht influence
this certificate might have had, or ought to have had,
at law. But since the Plaintiffs were not preventedfrom using it at law by the act of the Defendants or by
any positive rule which disabled them from doing so,
they have not made out a case of such clear equity, a
case in which it would be so obviously against conscience for'the Defendant to enforce the judgment at law,
as to .ustify the interposition of a Court of Chancery
The judginent is to be affirined -With costs.

