SUPREME COURT U.

CLARK'S EXECUTORS V. 'CARRINGTON.

is .
Fe

.

6*u

Absent....JomsoN, . and TODD,
n a ewe o
arranty

J.

of
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district
nRhode-Island, in an action of assumpsit, lirought by

Carrington against Clark, in his life time. and prosecuexecutors,. after his decease, to recover
ag
gainst the perif from themive niths of the amount of a judgment reeon-to be indemnified,
Indemnity,

a

judgment a-

I~rlyohtaned, covered by Smith and- Co. of Hambuigh, against Carespecially if rington upon a claim against hun jointly with Greene
obtained On and Barker, and J. C. Nightingale, Carrington havpotiee to the
isng paid the whole.
warrantor,evitidinissibit:
demnt amsut The declaration

contained the usual money counts,

is coutract of and several counts upon a special undertaking by Clark
to comply with th contract between Greene and Barindemnity.
who
A person
receiving
upon

an assygnment
share of
e"fa

rosrty of

ker and Carrington, which contract was averred to be
to pay
-," all debts contracted iiy Carrington with Smith
and Co. on account of the owners of the ship bzgdil,

ecuity for
a the proportion i wich they are interested therein
debt,.agree to the owners being Greene and Barker for five nmths.
the contract of 3. C. Nightingale for two and an half ninths, and Car-

for one and anhalf ninths, Clark having reowncr of the ceived from Greene and Bapker, who ad become insolProperty, is vent, an assignment of their share inthe ship and carth asgnor
a josmtworington
with

bound to fulfil
that contract go, and
although it ex. mnths of
eedin amount
the value of

the share of

-ibcm

Carrington having paid over to Clark, five
the proceeds thereof.

A bill of exceytions was taken to .the opinion of the
and to the admission in evidence of a letter from Clark to Smith and Co. of the 80th of June,
1800-and of a letter from Greene and Barker, to
Smith and Co. of the 12th of July, i8o0-and of the
writ, proceedings and judgment, in the suit of Smith
and Co. against Greene and Barker, 3. C. Nightingale
and Carrington.

the property Court below,
transferred to

The Jetter of 30th June, 1800, from Clark to Smith
aind. Co. says, "This will be handed to you by Mr. Ed"6ward Carrington, who goes supercargo of the ship
,Alngail, of which he is a part owner in company with
,Messrs. Greene and Barker and John C. Iightingale.

FEBRUARY TERM 18is.

309

" They have concluded to send their ship on freight to cLAK's
c your city, where having no correspondent, I do myself =x'Rs.
"the pleasure of recpmmending them to your notice.
v.
" Mr. Carrington proposes continuing in the ship, and CAIMING" it is probable will require your advice and assistance
TON.
"in the voyage which he intends carrying ito execu"Lion. I have ever found these gentlemen persons of
"strict integrity, and I doubt not will punctually fulfil
" any engagements they may enter into with you."
The letter of the 12th of July, 1800, from Greene and
Barker to Smith and Co. is as follows:
•,New York, 12th July, 1800.
- Messrs. GeorgeSmith and. Co.
"Gentlemen-By the recommendation of our mutual
"friend, Mr. John Innes Clark. of Providence, we are
"induced to make an acquaintance with your house,
" and we have accordingly recommended Mr. Edward
"Carrington, supercargo of the ship Abigail, (of wich
,lie, together with Mr. John C. -Nightingale and our"selves are owners) to call on you for the necessary
"aid he may require while in your city. We have" opened our plans of a voyage for the Abigail to your
",Mr. Adamson. which lie doubts not you will readily
"coincide with, and render Mr. Carrington the neces"sary aid he may require. We shall consider our"selves respunsibte for all contracts which Mr.Car"rngton may make in the business of this ship, and an"ticipate the pleasure of your being well satisfied with
, his strict fulfilment of them. We have handed your
" Mr. Adamson bills of lading for a parcel of dye-wood,
"shipped in the Abigail with an order to get one thou"ssand pounds sterling insured on her cargo-and freight,
"and shall draw on you in consequence for seven buni dred and fifty pounds sterling.,
"We are, your most obedient servants,
-,GREENE & BARKER.
6 Please elect the above insurance, itfnot already done.
-WM. ADAMSON."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLAReS

i.X'RS.
V.
CARUINGTON.

The record of the proceedings in the suit of Smith
and Co. v. Carrington and others, was objected to because Clark was not a party to it. But it was proved

that Clark had a power of attorney from Carrington.

who was in Canton, and conducted the defence of that
suit in his behalf.
The evidence principally relied on by the Plaintiff in
support of his action was a letter from Clark to him of
the i6th of March, 1801, written at Provdance. That
part ,of the letter which relates to the ,bject is as
follows
"4-;Mr.Edward Carrington,
" DEAR SIR,

- Since your departure from hence, our friends Messrs.
",Greene & Barker, have been so unfortunate as to redulce
";themto the necessity of compromising with their-crdi-tors. In order to secure me for the indorsements I have
"made in their behalf, they have conveyed to me two
"thirds of the ship Abigail, with her appurtenances
"also five sixths of two thirds of the cargo. Situated
" as this business is, I have to recommend your mak,ing the utmost dispatch in your sales and proceeding
6"immediately for this place, with such articles as you
"shall receive in return for the sales of your outward
"cargo, submitting the articles entirely to your judgccment, but I recommend that you leave no part of the
property behind you, if it can possibly be. avoided.
"'With respect to the ship, notwithstanding I have a
",.bill of sale from Greene and Barker of two thirds, I
shall -view you (if you return here with her) is time
.,,
.ou-ner. of such proportion as agreed upon between
"you and them, and I give you my word that you shall
"receive fronr me every aid and support in settling the
"business to mutual satisfaction, that is in my power.
,-Mr. John Corlis, who has undertaken to conduct the
'.business for Mr John C. Nigntingale, writes you by
"this opportunity, and will assure you in lsbehalf of
,o v-sixth of one-third from him-that is to say, to
"make' you an owner in the whole ship Abigail and
,"Gappurtenances of one complete sixth, and the same
"proportion in the cargo, and Greene and Barker's
",contract with you, shall in every respect be fully com-

FEBRUARY TERM isis.

-34k

,plied with, the same as it would have been done with CLA-R'S
.x'Rs.
"them, had they continued owners."
IV.

t

The answer of Carrington to this letter was as ibllows:
"Bivvauna, April

CARRING-

22d, i 8oi.

",J.ohn Innes Clark, Esq.
" SIR,
"Triplicate your letter of i6tl of March, was handed
me this day, oigmal and duplicate having nolt appeared. Your letter gives me the first advice of our friends
Messrs. Greene and Barkers misfortunes by the fire,
and am very sorry that they have been obliged to dispose of the Abigail and her cargo under their present,
situation of a bottomry to Messrs. Geo. Smith tnd
Co. at Hamburg. But I presume and'doubt not Messrs.
Greene and Barker have acquainted you with the exact
situation of them, and have only disposed to you of that
part of the ship and cargo that may remain after the
bottomry bond is settled and discharged.
cc Iiconsequence of the capture and detention of part
of the cargo and bad condition of the ship, I have: been
unable to return direct to Hamburg, and obliged t9
make up a voyage for Providence, and have advised
Messrs. Greene and Barker with particulars and desired
them to cause insurance to be made thereon. I shall
leave here this day and join the slp and hope to be at
sei in a day or two. Should the voyage meet -no other
further disappointment, I flatter myself that after sett-ing the accounts of the adventure, it will turn to some
advantage and leave a considerable balance due Messrs.
G. and B. and beg to assure you that every thing that
is consistent and within my duty in this business I shall
give the strictest attention and consult you therein.
I am, with esteem and respect,
Your obedient servant,
EDW.. CARRINGTON."
Carrington, while at Hamburg in order to procpre
a cargo for the ship, had obtained credit with Smith

TON.

r

SUPREME COURT U.-' S.
camms
rx'ns.
v.
uARRxGTON.

-

and Co. to a large amount -upon the hypothecation oK
the ship by a bottomry bond, and upon agreeing to return to Hamburg with a cargo, for winch purpose he
engaged Smith and Co. to procure insurance to be made
in a large sum upon his return voyage. The premium
on this insurance constituted a considerable-part of the
debt due to Smith and Co. upon winch they- recovered
judgment against Carrington ap before stated. One of
the grounds of defence taken by Clark's executors, was
that Carrington had neglected to give notice to Smith
and Co. of the dereliction of the-return voyage in due
time to save that premium of insurance, and therefore
be alone-ouglt to suffer by it. The Judge, in the Court
below, incharging the jury, (as the manner is in RhodeIsland;) said , Great blame is attempted to be thrown
4 ov Mr. Carrington for not giving notice to George
"6Smith and Co. that lie had changed his voyage so as
661o prevent the insurance being made from Havanna
"to Hfamburg; and the Defendants say that for hIs
cc neglect in not giving such timely notice, lie ought
"alone topay the whole of that premium-.of thzs Vou
6-;will judge." The judge also said, "I conceive the
"case to be clear, that as Greene and Barker 4rere in66 terested'five ninths in the voyage, they were bound to
cc indemnify Mr. Carrington in the same proportion for
" the damage he should sustain by the contract with
",George Sinith- and Co." And again he. says, ",If
cc Mr; Clark received from Mr. Carrington more than
afive ninths of the surplus after paying the company's
" debts, and.Mr. Carrigon has since been obliged to
"cpay those debts, Mr. Clark is bound to refund his
"Gproportion."
"he JTudge finally concludes his chtrge in this manner,
"Having gone through the case at great length-and
"conceiving it on the whole to, rest principally on ques"tions of law, I will give you my opinion explicitly up"con them, so that if your verdict should be against the
skDefendants, they may have an orportunity to bring
th6 cause before the Supreme'Court.
"I conceive that Mr. Clark's letter bearing date
16, 1801, at Providence, and directed to Mr.
,Carrington. at Havannap and received by him 22d of

iMarch

FEBRUARY TERM i8i3.
"April, 1801, taken ma,dnnection "withthe other evidence ceica's
i-In the case, ought to be condsidered as a letter of guar- Ex'Rs.
v.
c anty, and binding Mr. Clark to pay five nifith'parts,
" of the delit due to George Smith and Co, as ascertain- CARRiNG"ed by the judgment in their favor against Mr. Car- ToN.
terlngton.
" I am also of opinion that Mr. Clark having receiv"eed of Mr. Carrington, a large sum of money, under
"cand by virthe of the assipnment, from Greene -and
"Barker, of their interest in the ship .Afiigail and car"go, was bound, under the circumstancesof tis case, as
9, made out and established by the evidence, to f'efund the
4 same or so much thereof, as would amount to five
"ninth parts of the debt due to George Smith and Co.
" What sum Mr. Clark received, is a question of fact
", proper for you to decide."
The verdict and judgment being against the Defendants, they sued out their writ of error.
C. LEE, for Platntiffs in error
The bill of exceptions is,
:L. To the admission of improper evidence, and
2. To the judge's opinion as to the effect of-that evidence.
1. As to the admission of improper evidence. The
letter of the 30th of June was irrelevant ,andcould have
no effect upon the present case. The letter of 12th of
July, 1800, from Greene and Barker to George Smith &
Co. was improper evidence in the case, because it was
between other parties. Clark had no knowledge of
such a letter wheni he agreed to comply with the contract of Greene and Barker with Carrington. The record of proceedings in the case of Smith and others v.
Carrington was inadmissible because Clark was not
party or privy to that cause.
2. As to the 4inion of the judge upon the effiect of
the evidence.
41
VOL. VI.

SUPREME COURT U. S,
CLIRK'S

Ex'Rs.

v.
CARRMING-

TON.

Tie letter of 16th of March, 1801, did not bind
Clark to pay any money tor George Smith & Co. It
was intended only to bind Clark to permit Carrington
to have onesixth of the ship and cargo according to
the contract between him and Greene and Barker. The
engagement of Clark was also upon a condition precedent, viz. that Cariington should return with the
ship to Providence which condition he, never performed. It was very important to Clark to get possession
of 'the ship, and he therefore annexed the condition to
his promise, that the ship should be brought to his
lace of residence. There i.5 no evidence that Clark
knew of any other contract between Greene and Barker
and Carrmgton than the agreement that he should have
one sixth of the ships The judge ought not to have left
it to the jury to decide whether the conduct of Carrington, in not bringng the vessel to Providence, was satisfactory .td Clark, as a compliance vith the condition of
us promise, but ought to have told the jury that the
condition had not been performed, and therefore Clark
was not bound by his promise.
The judge also erred in directing the jury that the
letter of the 16th of March ought to be considered as a
letter of guarranty, and binding Clark to pay five ninth
parts of the judgment recovered I)v Smith & Co. v.
(arrmngton. That judgment may include items for
which Greene and Barker were not liable to r.imburse.
Carrington. He erred also in directing the jury that
the spedial counts were supported by the evidence, and
that the Plaintiff might, upon the money counts recover
less than the proportion of the judgment of Smith & Co.
Carrington had no eqidtable.claim on Clark. Clark
was not liable at all unless lie was bound by the letter
of 16th March. As to the premium of insurance upon
ihe return voyage from Ravanna to Hamburg, which
vonstituted a great part of the claim of Smith & Co.
against Carrmgton upon which, theiiP judgment was
founded, it was an expense which arose solely from the
neglect of Carrington to give due notice to Smith & Co.
of his relinquishment of the return voyage, and therefore Carrmngton could not have recovered any part of
it from Greene and Barker; and the judge ought to,
have mnstructed.the jurj accordingly.

FEBRUARY TERM, ifk,
Clark was a creditor of Greene and-Barker, and had CLARK's
as much equity as any other creditor. He took tle bill mx'Va.
0.
of sale without notice of any prior equity. Clark, by
CAnnINGa
as
-considered
be
not
could
sale,
of
accepting the bill
partner, nor liabld for any transactions prior to his in- ToN.
terest in the ship and cargo. If Greene and Barker
had, never paid for the ship and had. become insolvent,
Clark could not have been held liable to the vendor.
There was no lien on the vessel or cargo. An assignee
is not a partner. There is no partnership witiout an
I. Al. 37, 48. Watson on Part. 21, 67..
agreement.
ni
3 Bos. and ' dl. 2o88, Parkerv. rar-er 9,89, Chapi

v. Cross.

STOCKTQN,

contra.

Upon every principle of law and ju~stice this judg.
•ment ought to be affirmed. The suit was by ,one
joint owner to recover of another joint owner a proportion of a joint debt recovered against the Plaintiff. The verdict of the jury has settled all the questions of fact. There is no error.Jn the form of the
charge given by the judge to the jury
1. As to the points of law arising in the case. The'
charge given by the judge to the jury regardstwo subjects I. That the letter of the 16th of March was, in
coflnexion with the other evidence, a guarranty for five
nuinths of the debt due to Smith & Co. And, 2. That
Clal-k, having received upon his five ninths of the ship
and cargo, more than his proportion, ought to refund.
1. As to the letter of 16th of March. It clearly
binds Clark to do, in regard to that ship and cargo,
and to the adventure, whatever Greene and Barker
would have been bound to perform had they continued.
owners. There cannot be a doubt that Greene and
Barker, as joint owners with Carrington, would have
been'bound to reimburse to Carrington five ninths of
the debt due to Smith & Co. which Carrington had
been compelled to pay It is clear also that Clark understood lis liability as going to that extent. This is
to be inferred from is silence as to the letter of the 22d
of April, 1801, which Carrngton wrote to hn in reply
to his of the 16th of March, from the sanction which
Clark gave to the subsequent voyage to London by his

SUPREME COURT U. Si
CI.ARK's letter of 15th of May, 1802, from his having charged
iax'Rg. himsdlf in account with five ninths of the out-fit for that
V.
voyage, from his having joined in another adventure

CARRiNG- as to part of the cargo left at Guadalope, from his let-

TON

ter of the 9th of July, 1801, from his having conducted
the defenbe o the suit of Smith & Co. against Carrington, from his affidavit made to obtain a continuance of
that suit; and finally, by agreeing to refer tbis cause
to arbitrators to ascertain the amount for which the
judghient should be rendered, thereby admitting a good
pAuse of action against him.

If all the part owners are not named in a suit, and if
those who are named do not plead that fact in abatement, and judgement be obtained against them, they
may compel the others to contribute .abbot, 71, § 13,
first London edition. 2 Bos. and Fri. 268, 270. 1 East. 30.
But, Clark was liable as a jotnt owner, independent
of the express undertaking coitained in his letter of the
16th of March. And even if lie is to be considered as
the mere assignee of'Greene and Barker, he must stand
in their place and take their interest cur onere. No
person claiming under a partner, or joint owner, can
claim more than such partner or joint owner could
have claimed, if he had not assigned ]is interest. Cowper, 409, Fox v. Hanrynj.
2. The second opinion of the judge was, that if Clark
had received the proceeds of five ninths of the ship and
cargo, he was bound to refund five ninths of the debt
which Carrington had paid to Smith & Co. and that
Carrington had a right to recover the same in this suit
upon the money counts. In this opinion also lie was
correct.
If a person has received money, which by subsequent
events he ought in equity and justice to refund, it is
money had and received for the use of the Plaintiff.
He might also in this case recover on the count for
money paid,laid out and expended for the use of thf
Defendant. He paid the whole of the joint debt o
which the Defendants ought to have paid five ninths.
The Plaintiff was alo entitled to recover on the special count. The only question, on the point of li1oad&

FEBRUARY TERM isis.,
ing, is whether the contract in the letter be materially cnARx's
variant from the count. The only variance alleged is ]Ex'Es.
v.
in regard to the bringing of the ship to Providence; but
the count is as general as the letter. The only question cAR iNToN.
then'is whether the return of the vessel to Providence
was a condition precedent of the contract contained in
the letter. The word "6 here" is satisfied ifthe vessel
came into the United States. This was a question propedly submitted to the jury. Could it mean that the
Plaintiff was bound at his peril and at all events, to
bring the vessel into Providence? Shall nothing excuse
him? Capture? nor tempest? nor the clear interest of
the concern?
As a partner, and especially as husband of the ship,
he had a discretion to act for the common henefit of all
concerned. Jibbot, 58, 59. The condition was substantially performed. If not, it was dispensed with by
Clark. Time and place are not of the essence of the
contract. If a horse be sold to be delivered at a certain
place on a certain day, and the purchaser, before the
day, receive the horse at another place, the contract is
fulfilled. Clark made no objection to the delivery of
t~e ship at, Norfolk, but agreed to a new voyage from
thence to London. and received the proceeds of that vqyage without objection. He is bound by his acquiescence.
Then as to the admission of evidelice.
:I It is objected that the record of the case of Smith
and Co. v. Carrington, ought not to have been admitted in evidence, because it was res iter alios acta.

This objection admits of three answers.
1. It does'not apply to this case because Clark, although not an ostensible party, was a party in interest.
Where the parties are substantially the same, the recordis evidence.-Gill. 35, Doug. 5i7,innersliyv.Small.
46.
Da/ll i2o.
2. The 2d answer is that this is either a case of.indemnity or warranty, and there is a privity between
the person indemnified and the person indemnifying.
The root of the .principle is found in the common law
loctrwe of warranty. If the party were called to war-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
c-tiK's rant, the judgment was conclusive against him, and
nx'Rs. when the writ of 'wari'antia chartm yielded to covenant
I.
the same princifle applied.-4, Bee',es, 67 Where a
OAIMING-

person indemnified gives notice, to the person indemni-

ToN.

fying, that a suit is brought against him, the judgment
is conclusive against the latter in a suit by the former
against hun for 4ndemnity.-,
. R. 371.q, Duffield -v.
Scott. 1. Johnson, 517, Blaindsdell 'a. 'Glasscock. So in
an action of covenant on sale of land, the Plaintiff must
show.an eviction, which he can only do by tie record of
the sailt against him.-6, Johnson, 158.
The principle of res inter alios aeta never a]pltes to a
case of indemnity Clark not only.had notice, but actually defended the suit.
3. The 3d anzwer is that a judgment ascertaining a
precise'fact, character, or privilege is always evidence,
whenever that fact, character or privilege comes in
queation between other parties.-2, Strange H109.-5,
Bit 260i.,I, Btr 146, 9, .Mod. 66.

It is Qbjected also that the letter from Clark to Smith
and Co. of-30th of June, 1800, was irrelevant and
therefore ought not to have been read in evidence. But it
clearly refers to the subject-matter. It is also said that
the letter from Greene & Barker to Smith & Co. was a
letter between othere, and ought not to have been admitted as evidence against Clark. But it was a letter from
those under wham Clark claims, and by whose acts he
i§ bound, so far as those acts relate to the property as,signed to him. It was also evidence of the engagements of Greene and Barker, which Clark had undertaken to perform.
But it is said that Carrington ought not to recover,
because tile loss of the premium, upon the insurance
was owing to his negligence in not giving earlier notice of the, alteration of the voyage.-The answer is;
that tins was a matter left to the jury and properly in
issue between the parties. There is no evidence of negligence in the record.
,11UNTER, oil the same side.

The letter of the 16th of March was m itself a guax

FEBRUARY TERM i812.
ranty. And allthe acts of Clark show that such was his
understanding of it.

CLARI 's
EX'Rs.

The judgment of Smili and Co. v. Carrington was cARuINGToN.
admitted only as evidbence of the amount recovered. All
the cases on this subject are collected in the .American
edition of.Peak's Lazy of Evidence, p. k5, b7
As to the count for money had and received.-Tlus
-'vas money paid by mistake, in supposing that the debt
.claumed by Smith and Co. could not be recovered. Or
'it was a case of trust, Clark having received the mfoney
upon the understanding that he would pay his proportion of whatever Smith and Co. might recover.
The premium of insurance was paid by Smith and
Co. before it was possible that they could, have received
notice of the change of the voyage.
If Carrington was an agent, his acts have been sanctioned by Clark, If lie was guilty of miscondfct, Clark
,has waved it.
The agent is discharged if the prncipal adopt Ins
acts. 1, XV. . T. B. 323; Lyle T. Claso.--i. X. Y
T. R1. 526, Codwtse v. Hacker.-Johnson7s.cases -zm error 1.O, Towle -v. Stcphenson.

JoNFs, in reply.
The real question is whether Clark made bunself
liable for the debts of Ins debtors, Greene and Barker,
The whol expedition resulted in loss. It is not probaPle that Clark meant to take all the risks of the voyages which Carrington might have undertaken under
his agreement with Greene and Barker. In order to
make Clark a partner the evidence must be very clear
But here was' no account of stock takeu-no ascertainment of debts, &c. all of which precautions would- be
taken by a prudent man before he engaged in a co-partnership. Clark was merely ai assignee of the property,
and the account rendered, shows that lie took Greene
and Barkers share at a certain-price, Clark could not,
bb liable( for any losses which happened before the as.signment. He -wfis never considered as a ,partrier ei-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CLARK'S
E.x'Rs.

v.
CARINGTON.

ther by himself or by any of the other parties. He was
only considered as an assignee for his own security.
Carrington gave up the' property to Clark without any
engagement on hs part to pay the debts of the concern,
shewing thereby ills construction of the nature of the
assignment to Clark. There is no evidence to support
the counts for money had and received, and for money
paid, laid out and expended. ,Nor did the -evidence
support the special counti. They do not state the condition that the property was to be delivered at Providencq, nor do they aver a delivery. any where.
The record inthe case of Smith and Co. v. Carrington, was admitted in evidence without any preparatory
evidence to show its connexion with this case. The declaration was general and extensive. The, account
filed did not show the cause of action.
Community of interest does not authorize the admission of a record in evidence. There must be either
privity of estate or of title. Clark did not claim either
under Carrington or Smith and Co.
All the cases of warranty-cited apply to land or spe.
cific property, where the title to the thing was in question. They are exceptions to the general rule.' The
case in 3 T. R. is a case of indemnity against actions,
and came on upon demurrer. But if it had come on
before the jury, the Plaintiff must have shewn that it
was a suit for a debt against which he was to be indemnified, 1, Esp. Rep. 162.
The other cases cited are of public rights-such as
coftnfon, prescrption,custom, &c.
February ith ....MARsHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opi.
nion of the Court as follows
This cause comes on now to be heard,
1st. On exceptions to the opinion of the Circuit Court
permitting certain exhibits produced by the Defendants
in error, to go to the jury

d. On exceptions to the charge delivered by the
Judge, to the jury.

FEBRUARY TERAI- i83.,
The, first exhibit, to wich the Plaintiffs in eifroi! ob- crARK'S
jected, was a letter written by their'tes ttor to George :e'Rs.
Smith & Co. of Hamburg, which respects the, transacv.
tion on iihich the present suit is founded. This letter CAREIGis'said to be irrelevant.
TEOW.
The second is a letter written by Greene & Barker,
[whose interest, the testator of the Plaintiffs held as gssignee] to Gborge Smith & Co; making themselves responsible for the contract of Carrington.
This -letter is said to be inadmissible, because it is
between other parties, and relates to a contract between
Carrington and George Smith & Co,
The third is a judgment obtained by George Smith &
Cp. against Edward Carrington, the Defendant in error, on'his transactions as a co-partner with Greene &
Barker, winch were guarantied by them. The objection to this exhibit, also is, that it 15 the record of proceedings in a'suit between other parties.
The Couit is unanimous and clear in the opinion, that
neither of these exceptions is sustained.
The letter of John J.Clarke to George Smith & Co,
is admisible, because it is part of the correspondence
relative -to the transactions out of which the present
suit has grown, and because it affords a strong implica..
tion that the writer was acquainted with the obligation
of Greene & Barker, whose interest lie claimsj to comply
with the engagements of Carrington) their co-partner
and supercargo. It cannot, therefore, be deemed irrele-

vant.
The letter of Greene &Barker to George Smith & Co.

is bdmissible, because it tends to show the obligation of
Greene &Barker, (whose interest in the AtIigail and her
cargo, is 'claimed by John Ines 'Clarke,) to perform
the engagements of Carrington, and' is a proper link in
-that chain of testimony which was adduced to prove
that those, engagements passed, with the intefest of
Greene &Barker in theAbigail and her cargo, to,Jghn
Innes Clarke,
VOL. VIT.
42

SUPREM
eu.'s
.x'us.
v.
CAUUINGTON.

, COURT Lt. S.

The judgment obtained by George Smith & Co, was
admissible, because it was ,founded on the contracts of
Carrington With George Smith & Co. for which Greene
& Barker were liable. It was a material document to
ascertain the amount to which George Smith & Co.
were entitled, as against Carringtoii, and was therefore
'a part of the testimony which would be required fo
show for how much Greene & Barker were responsible
whep they assigned to John Innes Clarke. It was certauirodmissible, for these purposes, because Greene
_&Barker were in truth co-partners with Carrington,
and because, if they were not, it is a case of warranty and indemnity, and in such case, a judgment
against the person to be indemnified, if fairly obtained,
especially if obtained on notice to the warrantor, is
admissible in a suit against hini on his contract of
indemnity, Whether it N as admissible against John
Innes Clarke, depends on the degree of his liability
fir the money for which that judgment was rendered. If the obligation to indemnify passed -to him
with the interest of Greene & Barker, either on his
expl'ess, undertaking contained in his letter of March
1801, or in consequence of any equitable lien on the
vessel and, cargo or, on the money produced by them,
which attached, whileAhe property of Greene & Barker,
and was not affected by the assignment, then these proceedings were admissible in a suit against him.
If no such liability existed, then the action could not
he sustained, and thejudgmenlt would be reversed on the
chargeoofthe judge. This point therefore will be cons~dered in that part of the case.
In his charge, after summing up thle testimony offered by both parties, the judge proceeds to say, "I conceive that Mr. Clarke's letter 1}earing date March 16th,
1SOt, at Providence, and directed to Mr. Carrington
at Havanna, and received by in the _2d of April,
ioi, takehan connexion with the other evidence in the
case, ouuht to be considered as- a letter of guaranty, and
bindipg Mr Clarke to pay 5.9th parts of the debt due
to GeiPro Smith & Co. as ascertained by the judgment-in therTavor a.gaint Mr, Carington. I an'al,
so of opinion, that Mr. ClaRke having receivedof Mr.
Carrington, a large sum of money under andbv v'tue
of the assignment from Greene & Barker, of their inte-

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
rest in the ship Abigail and cargo, was bound und'er the, c:,niz's
circumstances of this case, as made out and established
.x'us.
by the evidence, to refund the same, or so much thereof
v'.
as would amountto 5-9th parts of the debt due to George CAURNiGSmith & Co. What sum Mr. Clarke received, is a
TON.
question of fact, proper for you to decide.'
The declaration in this cause contains five general
counts, and three special counts founded on the letter
of March 16th, 1801, which the ju(e ciqnsidereit as a
letter of guaranty binding John Innes 'Clarke't6 pay
5-9th parts of the debt due to George Smith & Co.
'The first part of the charge is supposed, by a part of
the Court, to apply to the special counts, and to determine the right of the Plaintiff below to recover under
thim, the latter part of* the charge, to the general
counts, and to d6termine his right to recover under
them.
If the letter of the 16th of March, 1801, bqund John
Innes Clarke to perform the contract of Greene & Barker, then "hewas liable to the extent of Greene andBarker's liability, and was bound to pay whatever they
were bound to pay, although it might exceed the proceeds of -the Abigail and cargo.
If that letter did not support the special counts, if
with the other circumstances of the case it did not
amountto such acontract as was stated in the.declaratioi ,
then Carrington could only recover on his general counts,
and could obtain a judgment for no more than had been
received by Clarke.
Others of the Court are of opinion, that the charge
does not import that, in any state of the accounts, Clarke
was bound to pay mqre than he had received.
A decision of this point is rendered unnecessary by
the opinion of the Court on the letter of the 16th of
March, 1801.
The important part of that letter isin these words.
" Witb respect to the ship, notwithstanding I have a
" bill of sale from Greene & Barker of two thirds, I

SUPREME COURT U S.
-brp's
m.its.

V.
CAEMIrNG-

ToNv.
.---

"shall view you, (if you return here with her,) as the
"owner of such proportion as agreed upon between
"you and them, and I give you my word that you shall
6receive from me any aid and support in settling the
",business to mutual satisfaction, that is in my power.
C Mr. John Corlis, who has undertaken to conduct the

cc business for Mr. John C. Nightingale writes you by
" this opportunity, andwill assure you in his behalf, of
" one sixth of one third fiom hun, thatis to say, to make
-youun owner in the whole stup Abigail, and appurteS,nances of one complete sjxtl,
and the same propor,,tion in the cargo, and Greene "Barker'scontractwith
" you, shall zn every respect be fully complied with, the
, same as it woidd have been done with them, had they
,,continpidtd owners."
What was Greene & Barker's contract with Carrington ?
It is observable, that neither in this letter, nor in any
other part of the proceedings, is there any evidence that
Greone, & Barker had made with Carrington more than
one contract respecting this voyage.
A part of this contract, as is apparent from the letter of Mr. Clarke, entitled Carrington to one sixth
part of the Abigail and of the cargo to be taken on
oard at Hamburg. The letter of the iitth of. July,
iS00, addressed by Greene & Barker to George Smith
& Co.*states Carrington to be a part owner of the vessel
which was sent to Hamburg on freight, wishes them to
reuder Carrmton the necessary aid he may require,
and adds, , we shall consider ourselves responsible fol
all contracts NaIr. Carriogton may make in the bustness of this ship, and anticipate the pleasure of your being well satisfied with his strict fulfilment of them."
.It
seems a necessary inference from the condition and
object of the partie5. that this letter was written in pprsuanqe of. and conformity with, the contract between
Greene & Barker and Carrington, and that their responsibility, ,for all contracts Mr. Carrington might-make
ih the business of.the ship," was as much a part of their
engagement with hIm, as the agreement that lie should
he interested one sixth in the vessel and cargo.

FEBRUARY TERM 18iM.
This undertaking was known to Mr. Clarke. His ciAVixf
letter of the 30th of June, 1800, introducing Carring- i x'Rs.
v.
ton to George Smith & Co. recommends Greene &
Barker and Nightingale as the persons on whom G. xgmSmith & Co. were to rely for the fulfilment of the en1 -To.
gagements made by Carrington. "I have ever found-these gentlemen," says he, ,. persons of strict integrity,
and I doubt not will punctually fulfil any engagements
they may enter into with you." Clarke knew then, that
Greene & Barker had bound themselves to be responsible for the contracts of Carrington with George Smith
& Co. and alluded to this residue of their contract with
Carrimgton, when, after saying that he should consider
Carrington as the owner of such proportion of the ship
as was agreed on between him and them and that Mr.
Corlis, who represented Nigh'tingale, would do the
same, he adds ",and Greene & Barker's contract with
you shall in every respect he complied with."
The subsequent conduct of Clarke certainly 'proves
that he never understood himself to be entitled to more,
by the assignment af -the Abigail and her cargo, than
would -emain after dischargim the contracts entered into by Carrington.
The record abounds with proofs of this position, which"
have been much pressed at the bar, of whichthe Court
will select only one. It is the letter from Carrington
to Clarke, dated Havanna, Alnil 22d, i80i, in which
lie acknowledges the receipt of Clarkes letter of the
16th of March of the same year. He states the lien
upon the ship and cargo, and adds, " but I presume,
and doubt not, Messrs. Greene & Barker have acquainted you with the exact situation of them, and have only
disposed to you that part of the ship and cargo that
may remain after the bottomry bond is settled and discharged."
At tins information Mr. Clarke expresses no surprise, nor does lie manifest any dissatisfaction at the
conclusion Carrington had drawn respecting the terms
on winch he had succeeded to the rights of Greene&Barker. This is considered as further explaining his
meaing in usuing the terms, - and Greene & Barker's
contract with you shall in every respect be complied
witl2'

SUPREKE COURr U. S.
C.ARK'S

nx'Rs.

V.
CARRIENGTON.

Upon these grounds, it is the opinion of the majority
of the Court, that tlhe letter of the 16th of March, 1801,
contains a contract, binding John Innes Clarke to
perform the whole contract of Greene & Barker with
Carrington, a part of which was to pay five ninth parts
of the debt contracted on account of the Abigail and her
cargo, with George Smith & Co, consequently the
Plaintiffs in error were responsible to Carrington as
far as Greene & Barker were responsible.
It has been contended, for the Plaintiffs in error, that
a considerable part of the debt to George Smith & Co.
(the premium of insurance on a return voyage to Hamburg,) was incurred in consequence of the gross negligence of Carrington in not countermanding the order
for insurance as soon as he determined to change the
voyage. For this sum it is contended, Greene & Barker coild not have been liable to Carrington, and consequently it cannot be recovered from John Innes Clarke.

One of the judges is of opimon, that the question of
negligence is, in this case, a point of law, Carrington
having been a co-partner with Greene &, Barker, and
therefiore proper for the decision of the Court, others
think that the judge has left that question with the
jury
In summing up the evidence, the judge says, "cthe
Defendants say, that for his, (Carrington's) neglect in
not giving such timely notice (of the change of the voyage.) he ought himself to pay the whole of the premium. Of this you willjudge."
This explicit declaration, is considered as not being
overruled by the concluding part of the charge.
If the fact of negligence was left to the jury, they
have decided it in the negative, and the question whiether a partner would in such a case be responsible to
his co-partners for negligence in failing to countermand au order for insurancc, does not arise in the cause.
On that part, of the charge which states John Innes
Clarke to he responsible to Carrington to the amount
of the. money he had received, there is no difference of

FEBRUARY TERU 18.
opinion in the Court. It is however, unnecessary to CLAU8s
state the reasoning on which this opinion is founded, nx'is.
T.
since the congtructiongiven to the letter of the 16th of
cAM1_kY,
March, 1801, decides the cause.
TON.

It is the opinion of the Court, that there is no errorl
and that the judgnentbeiaffirmed.

DICKEY

V.
THE BALTIMORE INSURANCE COMPANY.

1803.
13th.

Feb.

Present....J.I1 the Judges, except' ToD, J,

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the distaet ofA policyofin
Maryland, in an action, on a policy of Insurance upon Vs ,Ise|
' at
Pe "a
'
the slup Fabius, "at and from New Yorkto B arbadoes, and from, an
herma
proisland,
from
teets
"cand at and from thence to Trinidad, alid at and
taltsg fero
"Trinidad, back to New York."
port to pord o9

dd tothe

The ship proceeded to Barbad~es, and from thence tae
to the port of Spain, -in the island of Trinidad, being go.
the only port of entry. an the island. Having taken in
part of her return cargo, she sailed from thence for
Port Hyslop, in the same island, for the residue. In
the way she was lost by the dangers of the seas.
'On the trial below, the opimon of the Court was iii
favor of the Defendants, and the Plaintifftook his bill
of exceptions, and brought the case up by writ of error,
hARPER; for the Plaintiff ti error, stated, that the

only question was,

Whether the terms c4 at andfrom Trinulad," authorized the ship .to sail from one port of the islknd to another port of the same island, to complete her cargo ?

island to
ac ar

