SUPREME COURT U. S.
'MAUaY'D. ceeding towards that Island for the purpose of enquiring
ts. co. as to its continuance, and that his doing so was no viov.
lation of his neutrality.
WOOD.

The Court does not mean to be. understood as -iv-

ing any opinion on the effect of such conduct if no such
communication had been made.

The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with
costs.

Iis.

FERGUSON v. HARWOOD.
24 th

Feb.

A bsent....TODD, T.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
Columbia, sitting at WasIngton, in an action of asat the foot ofsumpsit, brought by-Harwood against Ferguson, to rea paper PuP- cover the vahle of three hogsheads of tobacco, upon the
porting to be a
record, "that following agreement, (after describing the hogsheads
:'the aforego. by their numbers, marks and weights) viz.
Isa clerk of

"ing

"taken

is

truly
from

the recor of

"proceedings"

cU pper ,Marlborougt,June 16th, 1808.

of his Court,
& if the judge,
Rteceived of Walter W Harwood, as onb of the ad.
chief justico, ministrators of William Eversfield Berry, deceased, in
oarrtsitng part of my claim against said e~tate, the three, ho sheads
certify that
such attestation of the

of crop tobacco as above stated, to be allowed p. ct.
the hlIst six month's credit price at this place d.irsng

clerk is in due that time after the r-scinding of the embargo. I have.
form of law, it put Into the hawls of the aforesal Walte, W flarwood
is to be
re
sumedthat te a bond of conveyance given by Ehslia Berv to his son,
paper so certi-William E. 'Berry, dated March 11th, 1798, for the
fled ss a fail
ofrecovea
copy of al the purpose of recovering the property therein mentioned
proweedings in now depending in a suit in Prince George's county
the caseland is Court. If the prpertv is not recovered in the aforeadmssible so
evidence,
said bond of conveyance, I heeby bind myself, my
But if the wri- heirs, executors and administratrs to return the above
ting produced, three hogsheads of tobacco, with legal interest, or the
do notpupor,
oseaso
to be a record, value thereof in money, to the aforesaid Walter W Harbut; a mere
r to his heirs or assigns.
transcript of

minutes ex-

(Signed)

ENOS D. FERGUSON."

FEBRUARY TERM 1si.
Upon this agreement the Plaintiff declared that where- FERiGUSON
v.
as the said Walter, as one of the administrators, &c.
delivered to the sAid Enos in part of lIs IqAR1OOD.
aton.
k1cscribiiig.
claim, &c three hogsheads of crop tobacco,
fromof
elbr ti-acted
per cent.
he docket
\ Ii
n tler
,' "
them) he, the saul ENos to be allowed
f
.
Nher{as the .ockt
,c.And
in-inth's
the
ot not admisible
the hands
put Into
on- price,
at- credit
Enos
the saidsix
also highest
_
the aforesaid Walter, d bond of conveyance, &c for th&!A evidence.
variance is
purpose of enabling the said Waltr to recover, and of immaterial
m*ntion
thle nat
no.
changedoes
o- -a yhch
•" d,
i••
recovering th proptrty in the snid bond
teoftheenI
I
depending
then
was
fhl'erof
recovery
tile
for
suit
the county Court of Prince Georgets county, in tht slate ti act.
of Maryland, the said Enos then and there in consider- co nd of
ation of the premises and the delivery of the three hogs- (then in suit)

&
heads of tobacco as - aforesaid, promised and undertook be assigned,
til ,'g
and bound lmself. his heirs, executors and adiiiinistraas
the
to
hi,,nd
aforesaid
tobacco
tors to return the three hogsheads of
s~gethe ,awith legal interest, or the value thereof in money to lue- thereof if
'the aforesaid Walter or to his heirs or assigns, if the the property

property in the aforesaid bond of conveyance mention- should not be
bond, ittsis
do-tile
de- toered
tit tle sutit then as aforesaid
f
ed was not recovered
for
I-stifficient
Waltr
said
the
andthereof,
recovery
jending for the
aganst
avers that the property in the said bond mentioned -was a suit
not recovered frtom the said Elisla Berry -n the suit so the assignor
,Piroas aforesaid depending for the recovery thereof, but',tlat " "lstrefund,
judgment was given for and in favor of the said Elisha, toaverthattld,
war
sroperty
recovered
iti
said suit, whereof, and of all which premises, .the not
said Enos afterwards had notice, wlereby lie became ,nthe suit
liable, to return the said tobacco with legal interest or which was
sen
a
to pay the value thereof in current money of the United pending
States, winch value the said Walter avers to be 180 as nIsade to
rfund
dollars, whereof the said Enos had notice, &c.
There was also a count in the declaration lor money
had and received.
Upon the trial of the general issue the Defendant,
Ferguson, took three bills of exceptions.
The first bill of exceptions was to the admission in evidenceof an exemplification of the record of a suit in Prince
George's county Court, winch was certified as follows.
"I hereby certify that the aorepgcing is tiily taken
from the record of proceedings of Prince George's
5s
VOL. VII-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Court, and in testimony thereof I do hereto subscribe my name and affix the seal of the said county
Court, this third day of January, in the year of our
Lord one tho-sand eight hundred and eleven.

VERGUSON County

T.
HARWOOD.

JOHN READ MAGRUDER, Jr. Clk."
The seal of the county Court was annexed with the
regular certificate of the chief judge of the Court that
the attestation of the clerk was iu due form of law.
The objection to this exemplification was that it (lid
not appear by the certificate of the clerk to be a full
copy of the record of all the proceedings in the case.
The practice of the clerk of the Circuit Court for the
county of Washington, in the district of Columbia, was
to certify that the ," foregoing is truly taken and copied
from the proceedings," &c.
The second bill of exceptions stated that the Plantiff
having read to the jury the evidence mentioned in the
first bill of exceptions, and which had been permitted
by the Court to be read, the Defendant offered to read'
a copy of the docket entries of Prince George's county
Court, wnch the clerk had also certified to be truly
taken from the proceedings of that Court. To this certificate was annexed the seal of the Court and a certificate bs" the cliiefjudge of the Court that the attestation
of the clerk was in due form of law.The third bill of exceptiong stated that after the
Plaintiff had reat. the agreement to tie jury, the Defendant objected to its admissibility in evidence upon the
first count mn the declaration, because it varied from the
aqreenient 'set forfh in that count. But the Court was
divided Ii opinion and the agreement was read.
The verdict and judgment were for the Plaintiff,
whereupon the Defendant brought his writ of error.
F S. Kuv, for the Plaintif tit error, contended,

1. That the record or Prince George's county Court
ought not to have been admitted as evidence in this
cause, because the clerk of that Curt had not certified
it to be a full record of all the proceedings in the case,

FEBRUARY TERM Isis.

nor even that it was a copy of any thing, but had mere.

FERGUSAN

ly stated that "the foregoing was truly takeu from the
record of proceedings in that Court.
2. That the Court D.SuE to have admitted the copy
of the docket entries of Prince George's county Court
by
to be read a -evidence, because they were certified
7
tile clerk, in the same manner to be," truly talken from
the samq proceedings.
3. That the Court ought not to have admitted the
agreement in evidence to support the first count in the
declaration;because it varied from the agreement set
forth in that count, in the following particulars: 1. The
agreement produced in evidence states that .the Defdludant tit error, Harwood, should be allowed the highest
credit price, &c. for the tobacco, whereas the agreement
set forth in the count, is that the ilatntiff in error, Ferguson, should be allowed the highest credit price, &c.
for the tobacco and 2. The agreement produced in
evidence states that the Plaintiff in error was to return
the tobacco if the property should not b; recovered cc i
the aforesaid bonutof conxeyance." But the count
charges that the Plaintiff in error, Ferguson, agreed to
return the tobacco if the property, in the bond of conveyance mentioned, should not be recovered in the suit
then pending for the recovery thereof.

In support of this bill of exceptions, lie cited the following cases: . T. R. 2 0. 2 Bos. and Full. 116. -4 .1
R. 560. 2 East, 2 awl 450.
S. LAw, for the Defendant in error
On the first exception, cited 2 Harris's Entries, 221,
227 and 263, to show that the clerk's certificate annexed to the transcript of the record of Prince George's
county Court, was in due form, according to the practice of the Courts in Maryland.
On the second exception, lie cited Teake's Law of Emzdeuce, 34, 15 and 66, to show thatthe docket entries of
one Court'were not evidence in another Court.
On the flurd exception, to show how far it is necessary to set forth the agreement in the decaration; he

T.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
cited 6 East, 56-, Clarke v. Jarsdqn. 4 T; R. 538,
Frith v. Gray, iii the ,pote fo Drewry v. Twzss. 3 Wils.
gnwoo. '10. Richard V. Symonds. Doug. 60, ,Brtstow'o. Wright.
rJGUSON
T.

And to show that words- o surlpussage are to be rejected, he cited 2 ff. l. 1 3. I . p, 2,35, ing.v. Pippett. I Williams's Dig. 707
To show that omissions may he supplied, lie cited
King v. Beach, Cowl). 2.-0. Iing v. 01ay, Doug. i33.
And to show that a variance in an immaterial averment is not fatal, he cited 5 T. R. 496, Pepprn v. Soloimaus. 4 T. P. 558, Drewry -. Twiss.
.farch 5th....SToRY, J. delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows:
Several exceptions have been taken in this cause.
The first proceeds on the ground that the record was
not authenticated by the clerk in due. form of law. The
statute of the United States of the 26th of May, 1790,
declares that the records and judicial proceedings of the
Courts of any state shall be proved and admitted in
any other Court within the United States by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the Court annexed,
if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the
judge, chiefjustice, or presiding magistrate, as the case
may be, that the said attestation is -n due form of law.
-It is conceded that such a certificate accompanied the
recOrd oby'cted to. It is therefore a case within the
words of'the law, and the Court below were precluded
from receivlng any other evidence to show that the attestation was not in due form of law. The record so
authenticated was properly admitted in evidence.
Even if the points had been open, the Court are not
satisfied that any material variance existed between the
attestations of the different clerks.
The Court are also of opinion ,that the second exception cannot be sustained. Th&'writing produced did
not purport to be a record, but a meire transcript 4of
minutes extracted from the.docket of th6 Court. There
is no foundation laid to show its admissibility in the
cause.

FEBRUARY TERM im3.
The third exception has presented the chief difliculty FERGUSON
which we have felt in deciding thd cause. It is addressT.
ed to the variances between the declaration and the con- HARWOOD
tract produced in evidence. The inducement of the dedla~ration alleges "c that the said Wilter- as one of the
administrators of William .E. Beri,
deceased, on, &c.
at, &c. delivered unto the said Enos in part of his claim
against the estate of the said William three hogsheads
of crop t;:bacco, &c. he, the said.Enos, to be. allowed per
cent. therefor the highest six month's credit price at the
place aforesaid during that time after rescinding the
embargo." The contract produced in evidence is without the words ,lie the Paid Enos." There is therefore
a literal variance, and its effect depends upon the considcration whether it materially changes the contract.
In general, Courts of law lean against an extension
of the pinciples applied to cases of variance. Mistakes
of this nature are usually mere' slips of attormes, and
do not touch the merits of the case. Lord Mansfield
has well observed that it is extremely hard upon the
party to be turned round and put to expense from such
mistakes of his counsel, and it is hard also upon the
profession.
It will be recollected that this does not purport on the
face of the declaration to be a description of a written
instrument, nor the recital of a deed or record zn lKe
verba. In respect"to the latter, trifling variances have
been deemed fatal. but as to the former, a more liberal
rule has been adopted. In setting forth the material
parts of a deed or other written instruments, it is not
necessary to do it in letters and words. It will be sufficient to state the substance and legal effect. Whatever,
however, is alleged should be truly alleged. A contract
substantially diffirent in description or effect would not
support the averment of the declaration.
In the case at bar, it is very clear that the word
" Enos" was by a mere slip inserted instead of "cWalter." It is repugnant to the sense and meaning of the
contract that the creditor who received the tobacco at
a stipulated price in part payment ef his debt, should
allow to himself that price. From the nature of the
transaction.the debtpr inst be entitled to the allowance..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FERGUSON

V.
HARWOOD.

If the same words had been introduced into the written
contract itself, they must have been rejected as nonsensical or repugnant, or have had imposed upon them a
sense exactly the same as if tlhe words had been "cthe
said Walter." And a declaration which should altogether have omitted the words, or have given that legal
sense, would have well supported an action., Can a different result take place, where the repugnancy is not fn
the contract, but in the declaration 7 A majority of the
Court are clearly of opinion that it cannot. The words
of a contract stated in a declaration, must have the
same legal colstruction as they would have in the contract itself.
The context manifestl.y in this case, shows the repugnancy It is impossible to read. the declaration and
not to perceive that the price is to be allowed to the
debtor, and not to the creditor. Many cases have been
cited where the variance has been held fatal, but no one
comes up to the present. The case of B)rzstow v. Wright,
(1 oug. 665)'is the strongest. There the demise was
alleged to be at a yearly rent payable quarterly The
demise proved was without any stipulation as to the
times of payment. The Court held that the detfuse laid
and that proved were not the same. But if the demise
had been truly laid, and the declaration had proceeded
to allege that tile rent was to be paid by the lessor to
tgle lessee, we tfink that the action might'well have been
maintained notwithstanding the repugnancy That in
efWect would be the same as the presentcaLe.
'In ICing v. Pippet, I T R. 235, Where the declaration
set forth a precept and improperly inserted the word
- if," winch made it conditional, the Court rejeted the
word, andheld the variance immaterial. The' Court
said it was impqssible to read the declaration and not
to know what it should be. There are other cases to
the like effect.

We are therefore satisfied'that the variance is immaterial, because it does not change the nature of the contract, which must receive the same legal construction,
whether the words be in or out of the declaration.
A second variance is supposed if the allegafion that
the promisewas to return the- tobacco or its value, 4-

FEBRUARY TERM 18iS.

the property in the bond of conveyance mentioned in FERGUSON
I v.
the declaration was not recovered-ta& the suit then depending for the recovery th6feof, -whereas the coiitract HARWOOD.
produced in evidence contained no limitation to a recovery in that particular suit. We are satisfied however that the Plaintiff has leclared according to the true
intent of the parties as apparent on the contract. It
could never have been their intention to postpone the
right to a return of the tobacco or its value, beyond the
time of a recovery or failure in the suit then depending.
Any other consti:.ction would have left the rights of
the.parties in suspense for an indefinite. period, wholly
inconsistent with the avowed objects of thp contract.
On the whole, it is the opinion of the Court that the
judgment be affirmed -with costs.

BIUYS

1813.

Ti.

THE CHESAPEAKE I1*SURA TCFCOMPANY.

Feb.

24th.

lbsent....T6DD, J,

ERROR to.the Circuit Court fog the district ofThere canno
MarylanWi in an action of covenant 11pon Apolicy of in- be a total loss
Partconsitof a
surance on hIdes, winch by thememorandun in the po- of Warg
licy, are declared to be free from average, unless gene- i g of memo.

iral. The policy contains the usual stipulation "that randu,
cles of only
"in case of-lossor damage, the-assured shall labor, &c. one species

(suchshid".)
"for the preservation of the property, to the expenses
z- .Nor
are the

"of which the assurers will contribute." The voyage underwriters
was to .Amsterdam. The vessel arrived at a place cal- liable for sal.
led cc 'iew Diep ;" where, according to the usage of the "a upon
trade, the hides were put into several lighters to be sent under the
which
stink, but someelause
to Amsterdam. One of these lighters
.
authorizes
thsO
of the hides contained, in it were afterwards fishe'd Up asured-.to Jabor andpreertravel
and saved by the. people of the! place, for whih a sal-€,.for.the
vage of 6,000 dollars wis allowed and paid. The .est va, If the
were totally lost. This action was brought to recover cargo, unless
for those totally lost, and for the salvage of those which peraps ma

were saved.

alvage

ay

