SUPREME COURT
iU.

S.

snLzHry and would not support the issue had non assumpsit been
V.
pleaded and issue joined on this plea.
MANDE-

VYE.

Now, what difference is produced by the default of
the Defendant? He confesses the note stated'in the
declaration, but lie confesses no other note. The necessity then of showing a note conforming tbo the declaration is precisely as strong on executing a writ of
bnquiry, as on trying the issue. No reason is perceived why a variance which wopld be fatal in the one case
would not be equally fatal in the other.
The cases cited by the Plaintiff's counsel have been
considered, but they do not come up to this. They are
not cases where the legal effect of the written instrument, offered on executing the writ of enquiry, has
differed from that of the instrument stated in the declaration.
The Court is also of opinion that the production of
the note, on executing the writ of enquiry, wa necessary The default dispenses with the proof of the note,
but not with its production. In England damages
have in some circumstances been assessedwithout a jur,
but it is not stated that those damages have been assessed without a view of the note. The practice of
this country is to require that the note should be produced, or its absence accounted for, and the rule is a,
safe one.
Judgnent affirmed.

I82.
March

CONWAY'S EXECUTORS AND DEVISEES

7th.

ALEXANDER.

If A, advance
money to B,
and B, thert.

Fresent.....1lI the Judges.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the
district of Columbia, sitting in chancery, at Alexandria,

FEBR'itARY TERM i81a.

29

Walter S. Alexander, the Appellee, son and residua- coW 'a
ry devisee of Robert Alexander, deceased, filed his bill nx'xis.
IV.
Iii equity against the executors and devise, 8 of Richard
ALEXANcertain
a
redeem
to
Conway, deceased, to be permitted
DEl.,
tract of land which his father, Robert Alexander, had,
in the year 178, conveyed to certain trustees, by a upon convey
deed which the Complainant contended was a miort- land to trusgage, which land the trustees had conveyed to W tcsItrust,

the
the same to the said Ricliard to coavey
had conveyed
Lyles, whoThe
to A, m
deed was by indenture, dated March same
Conway.
easeBj
fee, II

part, should fail to
20, 1788, between Robert Alexander. of the first of
mot
the repayandtheinterW Lyles of the second part, and certain trustee Citin ney

et on a certhird part, whereby Robert Alexander, (after reciting
land, tam day-and
his title to an undivided moiety of 400 acres inof consithe reBpay
holden in common with Charles Alexander,)
on the
ney
deration of 8001. paid to him by W Lyles, and in con.
by the tius- day limited;
sideration of the covenants to be performed
con-the trustees
tees, bargained, granted alnd sold, aliened andpart
of convey the
acres, being
firmed to. W Lyles, in fee, twenty
eq.
the said undivided moiety-and to the trustees the.resi- laasno

conveyed to B. ty ofredempdue of the moiety, except part thereof
which residue was tion.

Dade on the 1st of January, 1788,
supposed to contain 10 acres. To HAvw and to HoLD
the 20 acres to W Lyles, Ins heirs and assigns, to his
and their use forever-and the said residue, of the sail
and
moiety.to the trustees and the majority of them,
follows,
as
trust
in
them,
of
survivor
and
the su.-vivors
to wit " To convey the said residue of the said moiety,
" except as before excepted, unto him the said W. Lyles,
Shis heirs and assigns forever, by good and sufficient
' deeds in law for that pur'pose, at any reasonable time,
cc after the first day of July, .which shall be in the year one
-thousand, seven hundred and vinety, -unless the said
"Robert .Alexander, his heirs, executors or adimnistrato the said W Lyles,
", tors, shall pay, or cause to be pdid
the sum of 7901.
administrators,
or
"c his heirs, executors
can, -with
silver
or
gold
si
Tirgma,
of
nioney
current
",
on or
hereof,
date
the
front
,, lawfl interest thereupon,
it the year
be
shall
-which
July,
of
day
first
the
," before
And if the
" of our Lord seventeen hundred and ninety.
or adexecutors,
heirs,
his
Alexander,
"said Robert
s mnstrators, shall pay, or cause to be paid to the
", said W Lyles, his heirs, executors or administra"tors, the said sum of 7001. current money of Virgi" ma, in gold or silver coin, with lawful interest there-

220
COYtWAY's

,X'Rs.
"o.
Ai
DER.

SUPREMtL COURT U. S.

,upon, at any time on or before the said
first day of
"Jvly, which shall be in the year 1790, in
trust, im" mediately upon the payment being made,
to
reconvey
"xAiT.
to him the said Robert Alexander and Ins heirs
for"ever, by good and sufficient deeds in law,
all
the
title
" which by v'itue of these presents
pasksetli to them
said" (trustees) 6, or any of them, of, in and the
to the
"said residue of the said moiety, except as
before excepted, herein before granted and confirmed
unto
"them."
Robert Alexander then covenants that he
has good title in fee sinple to the land conveyed
and
that the 20 acres shall be laid off in a certain
situation
contiguous to other land of Lyles, and
by certain
metes and bounds therein described. The trustees
covenant, that they will well and truly execute then
the
trusts reposed in them, by reconveying
the hind, to
Robert Alexander, if lie should pay theimney
terest on or before the 1st 'of July, 1790-or and inveying it to Lyles, if Robert Alexander should by connot par
it by that day Robert Alexander then covenants
with
Lyles, that lie will make further assurance,
&c.
both
as
to the 20 acres, and as to -the residue of the
moiety, if
the trustees should convey it to him. He
then covenants to warrant the 20 acres to Lyles
against
the
claims and demands of alt persons whowsoever
This
deed did not contain any covenant on the part
of Alexander to pay the 7001.

On the 19th of fuly, 1790, fie trustees, by
deed of
that date, 'reciting the deed of the 20th of March,
and that Lyles had represented that R. Alexander1788,
had
not paid the money, and had required them
to execute
the trust, conveyed the residue -ofthe undivided
in fee to Lyles, in consideration of the covenants, moiety
ments, and trusts in the former deed contained agree.
part-to be performed, and in consideration on their
mentioned in the said former deed to have beenof 7001.
paid by
Lyles to Alexander.
On the 23d of August, 1790, Lyles by deed
of that
date, (after reciting the title of Robert Alexander
undivided moiety of the 400 acres of land, to the
and his
deed of the 20th of March, 1788, to Lyles
and
the
trustees, and that Alexander failed to pay the
7001. on
the 1st of July, 170, and that lhie trustees,
by their

FEBRUARY TERM 1s2,.
deed of the 19th of July, 170, had conveyed the land coNwv's
in question to Lyles) in consideration of 9001. paid him Ex'Rs.
by Richard Conway, conveyed the 20 acres,, and the
v.
residue of the undivided moiety ot the -100acres, and ALEXAN'all Ils right, title, interest, 7ise, trust, property, clamn, DFR.
and demand, in and to the same, by force of the said indenture, and all deeds, evidences and 'writings in any
manner or 'way touching the sanme, and the right and prmi,vilege ofprosecuating in the nazme of Lyles, (if at any time
judged necessary by Conway, his heirs or assigns,) any
actions at law for 1its breach of any of the covenants iT
the sazd zindenture contained To have and to hold all and
singular the premisesthereby granted, with the appurtenances, and ,1Ithe estate, right, title, use, trust, interest, property, clazm and demand of him the said TV
Lyles thereto, by force and virtue of the aforesaid ndentures to Conway, his heirs and assigns, to his and their
use forever, with a special warranty against the claims
of Lyles and his heirs and assigns only.
On the 17th of January, :1793, Robert Alexander
made fis will, and after devising specifically a number
of tracts of land and moieties of tracts by name and
description, to his son Robert, devised all the rest and
residue of his estate, real and personal, to his son Walter, the Complainant. Robert Alexander, the testator,
died in February, 1M9a. The land in question was not
specifically devised by his will, and Walter, the Complainant, obtained title under the will to several other
tracts not specificall y devised.
The Complainant became of full age in November,
1803, and brought this suit in 1807
The deposition of W Lyles was taken on the part of
the Defendants. He testified, that Robert Alexander
was not indebted to him at the time of the contract for
the land. No. part of the money was advanced by him
as a loan to be secured by mortgage. He was no lender of money, and would not have lent Alexander the
money on mortgage. Alexander was generally reputed not punctual in paying his debts, and rather too fond
af law, and at the time of the contract for the land was
,confined in jail for a larce debt, and sent several times
:o Lyles, and ureed him buy ":the land. Lyles then

SUPREME COURT U. S.
coiyAy's resided on land adjoining the 20 acres, and his house
mx'ns. was very near the line. He wanted the addition of
V.
about 20 acres, and was not anxious to have any more.
ALzxa- Alexander was more willing to sell his whole residue
of
.DER. the moiety of 400 acres, than to sell a part, hIs object
being to rais a considerable sum to pay the debt for
which he was in prison. It was agreed that the 20 acres
should be sold absolutely, and the residue should be sold
-conditionally, as otherwise Lyles would not advance
the money The 20 acres were purchased absolutely,
to suit the convenience of Lyles, and the residue was
purchased conditionally, to suit .lexander.. Lyles was
determined to advance no money on any bargain which
should make- it necessary to go into court to get it back.
The condition was understood by both to bc, that if he
paid the money by the time limited, the trustees were to
reconvey the land to Alexander, but otherwise they were
to convey it to I~yles in fee sinple, and lie was to have
the land thereafter absolutely to his own use forever.
He sold it as soon as lie could after htJbft Alexandria,
to get back his money. He received from Conway 9001.
aL the date of the conveyance, or a few days after. Alexander never made any claim upon Lylesfor any part of
the land, and never expressed to him any dissatisfaction with the sale, although he saw him frequently afterwards. Alexander was not in confinement when the
trustees made their deed to Lyles. No part of the land
was cultivated, and no formal possession delivered.
The deposition of Ch. Lee, Esq. who drew the deeds
of the 20th of March, 1788, and the 19th of July, 1790,
stated that Lyles consulted hxm about the bargain with
Alexander, and represented that Alexander wanted a
considerable sum of money to pay a debt winch was
pressing, and offered to sell some land, but -would not.
sell the -whole of it absolutely, but was willing to sell part
of it ab.,olutely, and the residue was to be conveyed to
trustees, in trust, to convey the fee to Lyles, if a certain sum of money was notpaid by a certain day, and
if it Was, the trustees were to reconvey to Alexander,
The depon'nt Was asked if such a contract was lawful,
or would he deemed in law only a mortgage, and gave
it as his opinion, that the parties might make such a
contract, and that it could not be considered a mortgage. Lyles intimated that if that was not very clear, be

FEBIUARY TERM is81.
would not have any tiung to do in the business. That coNwAY's
.x'ns.
he would not, on pny terms, make a bargain with AlexT.
ander, if he should be obliged to go into a Court of
Equity about it, wlincl might be the case if there should AL.XAN.
be a mortgage, that Aldxander was well known to be 3N3.
troublesome and fond of law. The deponent was requested to draw such instruments as would place the
contract in the state of a conditional purchase of a part
of the land, and with this view he drew the writing.
He is certain that Lyles consulted him as to the nature
and effect of the contract, and did not intend to have a
deed in the nature of a mortgage, but of absolute sale
of a part, and of a conditional sale of the other part
of the land, and such -yas the depo.nent's nitentionwlhen
lie drew the deed. That he afterwards drew a deed of
conveyance fromithe trustees to Lyles, to carry into effect their trust, and delivered it to Lyles to carry to
the trustees. Lyles informed hun that one of the trustees refused to execute the deed, unless Alexander
would signify his c6'nett, and asked whether a verbal
consent would not'do. The deponent sketched a note
in writing for Alexander to sign, signifying his consent, and was afterwards informed that the trustees
Were satisfied, and did execute the deed, but he does
not know whether Alexander gave his consent. Lyles
was 'not easy in his pecuniary affavs, and he never
knew hxm lend a large sum upon mortgage. Alexander
was a bad manager of his estate, was generally needy
of' money, and not punctual in n -nment of his debts,
though his landed estate was __...ly -of great value.
Th6 answer of the executors does not admit the deed to
he 'a mo'rtgage, and states that Conway began to make
expensive and permanent improvements on the land in
the summer of 1791, that Alexander had 'an opportunity of seeing-part of them, and probably did see them.
and made no objection as they believe.
It appeared in evidence that th land had lately been
sold for more than 20,000 dollars, but that it was very
poor, much broken by -gullies and exhausted, when
Conwaybegan his inlrovements. There was also evidence tending to show, Ahat it was then' worth more
than he gave for it.
Th6 Court below being of opinion, that the deed was

SUPREME COURT U. S.
co.wxvy's to be considered as a mortgage, directed an account to
E.x'Rs.
be taken of the value of the permanent improvements,
v.
and the original sum advanced by Lyles and' interest,
ALEXAx- and of the rents and profits, which being done, it apDER.
Iieared that the Complainant would have to pay the sum
of 1,943 dollars to kedeemi the land, and the Court accordingly decreed a release upon the payment of that
'SUm.
From this decree the Defendants appealed to this
Court.
C. Ln. for t& Jppellanls.
The only question is, whether this is a case of mortgage. The bill does not state fraud or oppression. I.
.As to the deeditself, the question is whether it'be a defeasable purchase, or a redeemable'mortgage.
It sets forth the consideration of 8001. as one entire
sum. There was no prior debt due to Lyles. That allegation of the bill is disproved, and unless there was
an old debt, or an actual loan, there could be no mortgage. It may as well be a mortgage of the 20 acres,
as of the residue. If both contracts were not actual
purchases, the parties would have required different instruments. All instruments are to have, a reasonable
construction according to the intent of the parties. 'One
distinguishing mark of a mortgage is a covenant fop the
repayment of the money But this deed contains no
such covenant. It was purposely omitted, that it might
not he a mortgage. The whole question is as to the intention of the parties. Lyles had no personal remedy
If the land should fall in value, it was hzs loss. If there
had-been a'valuable house upon the land, which had
been Aestroyed by fire, it would have been the loss of
Lyles. It was not reasonable that Alexander sfiould
have the chance of gain, but not of loss. It was in his
power to compel Lyles to take the land, by neglecting
to pay the money on the day Another circumstance
showing the intention of the parties is, that Alexander
covenanted to make further assurance, if required,
whenever the trustees should have conveyed the land to
Lyles,

FESRUARY TERM I8iM.
It-was not intended as a security for money, to Lyles, coNwWAY'S
but a mere right in Alexander to repurchase until a ix tS.
certain day. A Court of Equity cannot change the
v.
agreements of parties.

AL'ExA
Dt-.

In the case of Tasburgh v. Echdin, -Br 1Parl. Ca. 112. cited in Powell on .ortgages, 174. there had been.
a bill to foreclose, which clearly showed the intention of
the purchaser to consider it as a mortgage. But the
House of Lords decided it to be an irredeerbable purchase, and not a mortgage. That was an assignment,
by lease and release, of a reversion expectant on alease
for years, of which 43 were yet to come, in consideration of 2001. paid by sir Johiu ustacc to CharlesTasburgh,
in trust for John Tasburgh, dated in 1681. In the indenture of release, there was a proviso, that if sir
John Enstace should pay Charles Tas burgh, at" the end,
of 5 years, 2001. with interest, it should be lawful to him
to re-enter and enjoy in his former right, but if he
should fail to pay within the time limited, -the estate of
Charles should be absolute as well in equity as in law,
and that sir John and his heirs should be forever debarred from all right and relief in equity, against the tenor
of the said release., and 8ir John did thereby, for himself and his heirs, release to 'Charles Tasburgh, his'
heirs and assigns forever, all his right in equity to redeem the premises, in case. of, failure of payment as
aforesaid,; and there was no covenant in the deed'for
the repayment of the money, or the interest by the
grantor, as is usual in mortgages.
After the 5 years, John Taskirgh exhibited z.bill, in
.687, against sir John Eustace, praying payment at a
certain day, or that the conditioyial estate of Charles,
(in case it should be adjudged a defeasable or redeemable estate) should be made absolute, and that -sir John
might he !oreclosed of all equity of redemption. This
'bill was taken for confessed, and a decree in December, 1688, that he should be foreclosed, unless payment.were made of principal, interest and costs, before
December, /.689.
Sir Johnl cquiesced under ins,decree for 18 years.,
whenl.he died. John Tasburgh died in 1691, and Henry
Tasbfirgh succeeded to his estate, and, in 1722 deso
VOL VII

SUPRENI

COURT U. S.

alawhyos mised the premises to ,i',.amara. In i723q the heirs
of siv John Eustace exhibited a bill, alleging that the
M-x'ns.

V.
.AZXA-

MR;

decree for foreclosure had been obtained by surprise,
fraud and-imposition, and praying it might be reviewed
and -reversed, which was done by the Court of Chancery in Ireland, who decreed that Henry Tasbur~h
should release to the hei's of sir John, upon payment
of the.pincipal, interest and costs. From thins decree
Henry lhslun gh anpealed to the House of Lords, who
reversed it and dismissed the bill.
The principal upon which this case was decided by
tle House of Lords, is supposed by Powell to be, that
the c~ntract was to -be considered as a conditional purchase, and not a mortgage.
And in the case of, Barrell v Sab ne, i Fern. 268, the
,Lord MiReper said, 4 lie thought, that where there was
4t a clause or provision to repurchase, the time limited
Jf ought to be precisely observed."
In the case of Chapman v. Titner, i Call. 192. Judge
&tdeton in delivering his vpimon, said, A s on the
",one hand the Chancellor will not permit a real mort*,gage b"be made irredeemable by the act of the scrivener, so neither on the other will he suffer real con,ditional or defeasible sales to be changed into mort• gages lVy the like acts. The real intention of the
ii parties governs him. In a defeasible purchase, the
,condition must be strictly performed at the day, or no
- relief N'ill be granted, because it does not- admit of
,,compensation for the risk. If the thing perish the
"next day, it must be the loss of the purchaser, le
Shaving no covenant, or even implied promise, to- re", turn the money in that event; and we are taught by
- a maxim in equity, that tn these casual' cases, -even6 tual loss or gain must accrue to, or fall on hum who
"iruns the risk."

In the present, case, both parties confided in the trustees. Their deed, after the fitilure of Alexander to pay
the ready money, was as valid as if he himself had
-thbn released all equity of redemption, or had made an
*an absolute deed to Lyles.
2, qs to the evidence -i the case.

It appears that

FEBRUARY TERM I812.
Ohe (rostees refused to execute the deed until they had coNwAy's
the consent of Alexander. A writing was drawn for Bx'is.
11im to. sign, signifying is assent. The trustees exev.
cuted tile deed. The probability is, that ,they had his ALExAIassent in writing. He knew that the deed had been ex- PER.
ecuted, and he acquiesced. He saw the expensive improvements made by Conway, and lie was silent. Conway continued making substantial and permanent inprovements for 17 years, without keeping any account
either of the cQst of his improvements, the expenses of
cultication, or the value of the crops. It has now become impossible to accQuut. Justice cannot vow be
done. .In 2 Eq. ca. ab. 599, it-is said, that "'Equity
"cwill not enlarge the time for the mortgagor to redeem
,0after six years acqmescence under a forfeiture by hs
"'own consent, especzally if there be any unproveement on
"'the estate." And again, ",There slall be no redemp,ction after long possesszon, settlements made, and estate
'0zltprovCd."

In the case of Hallingsworth v. Frye, Judge PATERin delivering lus opinion, said, that the time of
payment was material, a cardinalpoint, and the party
ought not to, be suffered to lay by and take the chance
of the rise of value.
SON,

Lyles's giving a special warranty only, is no evidence
that lie considered it as a mortgage, The boundary was
unsettled, and then in a course of litigation, which was
a sufficient reason for his not giving a general warran-ty And that Alexander did not consider it as a mortgage is evident from. the circumstance, -that he did not
mention this land in his will, althoughihe specified almost every tract of land in which lie had any interest,
especially that part of this very tract which he had pre..
vously contracted to sell to Baldwin Dade.
This deed, therefore, was neither a mortgage per se,
nor was it the intention or un'derstanding of either of
the partics that it should be so considered, but conveyed a good, absolute, and indefeasible estate, both at
law ana in equity to W Lyles, and Ins heirs and assmgn,
TA -o, contra.
Admitted the distinction between an agreement to re.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'WAY'spurchase, and a mortgage. But in this case, if it be
Z'5!m. nut a mortgage, it was a most unconscionable bargain.
To. The exidence shows that at the time of the bargain,
=xAN- other land less advantageously situated, and not better
MER.
in quality, was worth three or four thiies the price which
Lyles paid for this.
As to tl question of mortgage. "Every contract for
rbceiving of money, by the conveyance of a real
.41
estate to the lender, nt made in contemplatiot of an
eventual airalgcnelntof property, is, in equity, deemed
a mortgage." l1lcllor v.Lees, 2 .Jtk.495. And all provisoes and stipulations between the parties, tending to
Alter, in any subsequent event, the oiginal nature of
te nortgaged interest, or prevent, the redemption of the
estate pledged, upon payment of the money borrowed,
with interest, are void. For were any such agreements suffered to prevail they would put it in the power of every mortgagee to take advantage of the necessities of the mortgagor, by inserting restrictive clauses
topreventa redemption ofthe estate pledged, unless upon
terms mnjurious to the latter. In equity, therefore, the
right of redemption is considered as inseparaltly incident to every contract founded on a mortgage, and can
no more be restrained than the power of tenant in fee
simple-to alien generally, or of tenant in tail, to suffer
a recovery, it being a maxim in equity, that the same
estate or interestcannot be a mortgage at one time, and at
atother time cease to be so." Po'oell on .olartgages,146.
Nor will an agreement to make the conveyance absolute
upon payment of a further sum, if the money lent be
not paid at the day appointed, alter the case, such stipulations being deemed unconscionable, because a man
ought not to have interest for his money, and a collateral advantage besides, nor may lie clog the redemption
by any bye agreement. 1 Vern. 48S. Willet v. Winnel.
PoweU, 152.
6,the

Powell, in concluding his observations upon the case
TasburgA -e. Echdin, p. 183.-says "But in all these
cases where the equity of redemption is rebutted by
Agreements of tlus kind, and the transaction is considered as a conditional purchase, the intention of the
parties at the time of contracting must, I apprehend, be
,learly roved or necessarily inplied from the circum-

FEBRUARY TgRM i912.

229

stances attending it, otherwise the general rule will not coNwkyk
be departed from."
It is not necessary, to constitute a mortgage. that it ATx, DER.
,should contain a covenant f9r the re-payment of the
money. 3. dltk. 280, Lawley v. Hooper; where Vh
lord Chancellor says that all Welch mortgages are
without this covenant, and so are most copyhold mortgages. So m case ,of King v. King, 3. P Will. 358,
it was decided that every mortgage, although there be
no covenant nor bond to pay the money, implies a loan,
and every loan a debt; as in the case 9f the mortgage
of a ship, which was taken at fta, although thre was
no covenant to pay the money, yet the executors of the
mortgagor were decreed to pay the money for whichthe ship was mortgaged. And the lord chancellor saij
it was so in the case of Welch inortgages, where no day
certain is appointed for the payment, but the matter left
Price. l. 1' Will. 29i,
at large. The case of Howell -v.
was upon a Welsh mortgage, viz. conveyance in fee
of an estate in Wales, worth 521. per annum, under a
proviso to be void if the mortgagor, his heirs or assigns
should pay to the mortgagee or his heirs, 3001. on any
OMichaelmas day, giving six montha notice, and the mortgagee to have the. rent which should then be in arrear,
but there was no bond or covenant to pay the money.Yet it was decreed that it was a debt which the executors should pay. The case of Ross'v. .Norwell, 1. Wash.
i, shows that a covenant to pay is not essential.
-e

A deed of trust is a modern invention by which the
equity of redemption is supposed to be foreclosed, without the aid of a Court of Chancery. But the present
differs from the modern deed of trust. In that there Ls
a public sale, and the surplus is paid to the mortgagor,
which, if the sale is fairly and judiciously made, may
be considered as the fair value of his equity of redemption. Yet the efficacy of such a sale as that to pass an
irredeemable estate is doubted. Powell, 19.-But here,
the trustees were time mre instruments to convey
They had no powers to do any thmig but convey, upon
the payment or non-payment of the money Here was
no provision made, to ascertain the value of the equity
of redemption, orto mitigate the severity of the contract
The mntcrvention of the trustees aid nut alter the case

SUPREME COURT U,. S.
cowWAyls

zx'ns.
T.
ALEXAiIDER.

or make it more, or less a moyf gage than it would have
been without them.
It is in effect the same as if the deed had been directly
from Alexander to Lyles, with a proviso that it should
be void if Alexander should pay the money on th day
appointed, Suclj a deed would unquestionably have
b~en considered as a mortgage. It has been shewn
above ,that a covenant to pay was not necessary, and
a covenpnt for further assurance is usual mimortgages,
and is therefore no evidence that thbs conveyance is not
to 'b considered a mortgagee. If then it is to. be
considered as a mortgage upon the face of the instrumenti is the extrinsic evidence so clear as to rebut the
tquitv of redemption '
Why was there a distinction made between the conveyance of the 20 acres 4nd that of the I40 ? Why were the
20 conveyed to Lyles, and the 140 to the trustees? The
answer apparent upon the face of the transaction, and
expressly avowed by Lyles himself in his deposition, is,
that Lyles did not want co purchase, and Alexander
did not want to sell, more than 20 acres. Lyles says
that the 20 acres were conveyed absolutely to suit hzs
con enzence, and the residue was conveyed to the trustees to suit .lexander
A19 to the 140 acres then, Lyles
did.not wish to purchase them, nor Alexander to sell
them. If a sale and disposition of the land were not
the.object of the transaction, it could be nothing but a
loan ofmo)iey by Lyles, and a security upon the land by
Alexaider'. This was evidenfly the substance of the
negociation. And wherever there is a loan of money
lpon the security of land, however, the transaction may
be disguised by the writings, it is substantially a mort,
gage. Lyles indeed admits his object to have been a
loan of money, but says his intention was to have the
means of getting back his money without going into a
Court of Chiancery -thatis, lie wished to loan his money
upon a real security without allowing his debtor the
right of rcdeplption. It was an attempt to do that
wbich Courts of equity have uniformly discountenanced, to devise a mode to defeat the equity of redemption
where the transaction was really a loan of money upoij
a mortgage.

FEBRUARY TERM I812.
# issaid Lyles had no personal remedy against Alex- 0oxwAr',
ander, because there was no covenant to repay the ndo- Ex'Rs.
v.
ney. But the aut!orities already cited show that
wherever the transaction is really -a loan, and the sC- ALMx-AN
DR.
curity is inadequate, there is a personal remedy
That Lyles considered the land as a sectirity .only, is
evident from the circumstance that he received from
Conway only his principal and interest, and assignedto
Conway his right and title only, together with thdtztlepapers, and expressly assigned all Ins rzht of action
against Alexander.
There is no evidence of acquiescence on the part of
Robert Alexander, in the idea that this was an absolute sale. He died in January, 1793, Mr. Lyles himself states that he does not know whether Alexander
knew of the deed of. the., gth July, :1790. Conways
agreement with Charles Alexander respecting a-division of part of the land which they held in common, was
in April, 1791. No improvements could have been
made before that date. One of the witnesses states that
he began to ditch the land in .1farch, 1791. It is proliable he meant March, 1792. If so, there were only ten
months in which Alexander could have seen any improvement on the land, and what he did see was not
Inconsistent with the nature of the estate of ak mortgagee
in fee in possession. The buildings, &c. were not
erected until after Alexander's death. The digging of
a ditch and erecting of a post and rail fence upon a port
of the land was not decisiveevidence that Conway clanned
an irredeemable estate, and there is no evidence that
as seen by Alexander.
even that small improvement A%
It is only stated by the witnesses that lie might have
seen it at a distance as lie passed along the road from
his house to Alexandria. The Complainant did not beromne of full age until November, 1803, and brought
Suit in 107 His guardian did not know tile nature of
ConWays title. The length of time is no bar to the
Complainant because lie has been under a legal disability. PVwell, 407, 8 , i, 12.
It is said .that Robert Alexander did not specify this
land in his will, although lie mentioned that part of the
tract which wan in the possession of Baldwin Dade--

SUP.99ME COURT, U.PS.
UogwAr's and from this circumstance an inference ia drawn, that
WR'R.

,.
ALnXAN-

D

he considered, it as an absolute sale, and not a mortgage.
But the reAson why he mentioned that part of the land
which was in possession of B. Dade was, that he devised
it to his son Robert-and it will be perceived by his will,
that he specified every thing by name which he devised
to Robert. but nothing which lie devised to Walter, the
Compaa-m -for after making specific devises to Robert, ke~saysa, -' Izgme to my son Walter, and hIs heirs,
'fore*4 odi the rest and residue ofmy estate both realand
',personizt" to that if Ins not specifying this land ibe
evidence that he thought he had no'interest in it, his not
specifying the half of his estate which he intended for
his son Walter, ic evidence that he thought he had no
interest therein. No such inference can be drawn from
his silence as to this land, which would not apply to one
half of his estate.
There is no evidence of Alexander's understanding of
this transaction. His circumstances were embarrassed
up to the .very time of his death, so that lie never had
it in his power to make an offer to redeem. It is endent from the deed 'tself that he expected to be able to
redeem in about two years, from the date of that instrumen , and the insertion of such a clause was evidently
intended for his benefit, and shows that he did not wish
to sell. He was in prison for debt. His. object was to
get money to relieve him from confinement, and the stipulation. for a time of payment, is evidence that he
meant to borrow.
There is no evidence that this was not a negotiation
for A loan of money. Mr. Lyles, in his deposition, does
not say that the money was not advanced by him as a,
loan, but says it was " not advanced as a-loan to be socured by inortgage;" and that lie would Vot have loaned
him money "on any mortgage by him." That lie -was
"cdeterinied to advance no money on any bargain
" which should make it necessary to go into court to get it
- back." That lie sold the land as soon as lie could after
he left Virginia, c6 for the purpose of getting back his
,money." All this shows that he had no objection to
lend the money, but he wished to. get real security
without an equity of redemption. And it appears he
employed counsel to devise a plan for that purpose, a

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
purpose winch is never countenanced in a Court of coNwAV'9
EX'Yis.
Equity
"0.

Turner, which ba been citThe case of Chapman -v.
ed, was a contract respecting personal property, and
depended upon its own peculiar circumstances, none of
which resemble the present.
The case of Tarsburgh o. Echliv, was a sale or mortgage of a reversion. There had bten a decree of foreclosure, and a long acquiescence under it. It does not
appear upon what grounds the House of Lords refused
to ieview that decree, whether it was because it had
been so long acquiesced under, or whether upon the
construction of the original conveyance. But the decision of the Court of Chancery in Ireland was clearly
upon the ground of its being a mortgage.
In the case of 1?obertso -c. Caminbell k Wheeler, 2 Call.
4289 Judge Pendleton, in delivering the opinion of the
Court of Appeals of Virginia, says, "c It must often
hiappen in disquisitions- of this sort, that there will
",
"bbe a difficulty in dra-%ing the line between these two
",sorts of conveyances," (mortgage and conditioiial
sale.) "c The great desideratum, which this Court has
",made the ground of their decision is, whether the pur",pose of the parties was to treat of a purchase, the vatlue of the commodity contemplated, and the. price
'fixed? Or, whether the object was the loan of noney
"cand 'a security, or pledge, for the repayment, intendcc ed
The cases cited from 2 Eq. ca. ab. only show, that a
Court of Chancery will not decree a redemption after a
forfeiture by consent of the mortgagor, and itnproyements by the mortgagee, and acquiescence by the mortgagor.
Upon the whole, then, this case appears to haye been
originally a loan of money upon real security, with an
attempt to defeat the equity of redemption, and not a
real bargain, with a view to the purchase of the land.
Tne want of a covenant to repay the money, does not
alter the nature of the original transaction, and. the
same evidenc6 which appears in this- ase %youldhave
Si
VOL. VI

ALLXANDEIE.

---

231,
CONWAY'S
EX'RS.

V.
ALEX-A-

SUPREME COURT V. Sa

supported a personal action bly L Ies against Alexander
upoithe loan of the money, in case the title of the land
had failed, o1 it had by Any other means.become an inadequate securitv

DER.

JON.s, t reply.

It nist be admitted, that it was competent for the
parties to make .a conditional sale, and the only question
is. whetber they have done so. Thl depositions of Mjr.
Lyles and Mr. Lee Ahowy that it was their intention to
make a condilional pubchase, and not a mortgage. If
the instrument does not create a conditional sale, it must
have been the mistake of the person who drew the
deed.
Ift is true that no covenant in a mortgage can clog thli
cquity of redemptibn. But if the transactior) be not a
mortgage, that principle does not apply Wherever a
deed is as collateral security, there mitst be a personal
remedy And it is no mortgage, unless it contain a
personal nblikatioii, or show it to be a loan. In the
present deed there is no recital acknowledging a debt,
and no covenant to pay, but the money is expressly ac
knowledged to be received as purchase money. It was
cntirely within the discretion of Alexander to pay th,:
money or not at the time.
The evidence justifies the inference, that the deed
from the trustees to Lyles was made with the consent of
Alexander, and beng by consent, it is equivalent to a
foreclosure by a Court of Equity Even if it were a
mottage orgmally, it might by subs-qnent assent become absolute And if at the time of the release of the
equity of redemption, a 'note be given that the releasor
:should have the lands conveyed to him, upon, payment of
'what 'wasgiven for thG lanes -within a year, such payment laving been neglected for several years, there shall
be no redemption. Ends-worth v. Griff th. 2 Eq. ca. ab.
595. C. 6.

In tall the cases cited to shew that a covenant to pay
the money is not necessary in a mortgage, there is some
other circumstance shfwinq a loan of rboney, or desig-

'235

FE9BRUARY TERM I812.
nating the instrument to, be a movtgage.

But. in the CoNwAY's

present case there is no such circumstance.

hIrarckh
MA.RSHALL,

.,l

thr Judges being present,

-,h. .. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows
Tins suit was brought by Walter S. Alexander, as
devisee of Robert Alexander, to redeem certain lands
lying in the neigi-borhood of Alexandrih, which were.
conveyed by Robert Alexander, in trust, by deed dated
the 20th of March, 1788, and which were afterwards
conveyed to William Lyles, and by him to the testator
of the Plaintiffs in error.

The-deed of the 20th of March, 1788, is between
Robert Alexander of the first part, William Lyles of
the second part, and Robert T. Hooc, Robert Muire
and John Allison of the third part. Robert Alexander,
after reciting that lie was seized of one undivided moiety of 100 acres of land, except 10 acres thereof previously sold to Baldwin D)ade, as tenant in common with
Charles Alexander, ,in consideration of eight liundrd
pounds paid by William Lylgs, and of the covenants
therein mentioned, grants, ba.gains and sella twenty
acres, part of the said undivided moiety, to William
Lyles, his heirs and assigns forever, and the residue
thereof, except that which had been previously sold to
Baldwin Dade, to the said Robert T. Hooc, Robert
Muire and John Allison, in trust, to convey the same
to William Lyles fit any reasonable time after the -first
iay of July,, 1790, unless Robert Alexander shall pay

to the said William Lyles, 'on or before that day, the
sum of 7001. with interest from the said 20th of March,
1788; And if the said Robert Alexander shall pay the
said William Lyles, on or before that day, the said
sum of 7001. with interest, then to reconvey the same
to the said Rqbert Alexander. Robert Alexanderffurther covenants, that, in the event of a reconveyance to
hun, the said twenty acres sold absolutely shall be laid
off adjoining the tract of land on which William Lyles
then lived. The trustees covenant to convey to William Lyles, on. the non-payment of the said sum of
7001., and to re-convey to Robert Alexander in the

EX'RS.
ALEXANDER.

SUPREME COTYRT U. S.
coivwlx's event of payment. Robert Alexander covenants, for.
isx'as. further assurances as to the i4O acres, and warrants
1v.
the twenty acres to William Lyles and his heirs.
ALEXAN-

DER.

On the 19th of July, 1790, the trustees, by a deed in
which the trust is recited, and that Robert Alexander
has failed to pay the said sum of 7001., convey the said
land in fee to William Lyles.
On-the 23d of August, 1790, William Lyles, in consideration of 90Ot., conveyed the said 20 acres of land
and 1*0 acres of land to Richard Conway with special
warranty against himself and his heirs.
On the 9th day of April, in the year 1791, a deed of
partial partition was made between Richard Conway
'and Charles Alexander. This deed shows that Charles
Alexander asserted an exclusive title in himself to a
considerable part of this land.
Soon after this deed of partition was executed,
Richard Conway entered upon a part of the lands assigned to him, 'and made on them permanent improvements of great"value and at considerable expence.
In January or February, 1793, Robert Alexander
departed this life, having first made his last will in
writing, in which he devises the land sold to Baldwin
Dade, but does not mention the land sold to William

Lyles.
The Plaintiff, who was then an infant, and who attained his age of twenty-one years in November, 1803,
broughtliis bill to redeem in 1807 He claims under
the residuary clause of Robert Alexander's will.
The question to be decided is, whether Robert Alexander, by his deed of March ,1788, made a conditional
sale of the property conveyed, by that .deed, to trustees,
which sale became absolute by the non-payment of 7001.
with interest on the 1st of July, 1790, and by the conveyance of the 19th of that month, or is to be considered as having only mortgaged the nrovettv so conveyed.
To deny the poxi ci Of two individuals, capable of

FEBRUARY TERM, iMi.

237

acting for themselves, to make a contract for the pur- coNwAY's
chase and sale of lands defeasible by the payment of Ex'ns.
money at a future day, or, -in other words, to make a
V.
sale with a reservatiorlto the vendor of a right to re- AL XANpurchase the same land at a flfed price and at a speClDER.
lied time, would be to transfer to the Court of Chancery, in a considerable degree, the guardianslup of adults
as well as of infants. Such contracts are certainly not
prohibited either by the letter or the policy of the law.
But the policy of the law does prohibit the conversion
of a real mortgage into a sale. And as lenders of money are less under the pressure of circumstances which
control the perfect and free exercise of the judgment
than borrowers, the effort is frequently made by persons of this description to avail themselves of the advantage of this superiority, in order to obtain inequitable advantages. For this reason the leaning of Courts
has been against them, and doubtful- cases have generally been decided to be mortgages. But as a conditional sale, if really intended, is valid, the inquiry in
every case must'be, whether the contract in the specific
case is a security for the re-payment of money or an
actual sale.
In this case the form of the deed is not, in itself, conclusive either way The want of a covenant to repay
the money is not complete evidence that a conditional
sale was intended, but is a circumstance of no inconsiderable importance. If the vendee must be restrained to his principal and interest, that principal and interest ought to be secure. 'It is, therefore, a necessary
ingredient in a mortgage, that. the mortgagee should
have a remedy against the person of the debtor. If
this remedy really exists, its not being reserved in
terms will not affect the case. But it must exist in order to justify a construction which overrules the express words of the instrument. Its existence, in this
case, is certainly not to be collected from the deed.
There is no acknowltdgement of a pre-existing debt,
nor any co-Venant for repayment. An action, at law,
for the recovery of the money, certainly could not have
been sustained, and if, to a bill in chancery praying a
sale of the premises, and a decree' for so much money
,as might remain due, Robert Alexander had answered
that this was a sale and not a mortgage, clear proof to

SUPREME COURT U. S.
coNmwAys the contrary

ix'ns.
V.,
A EXANDER.

-must have been produced to justify a de-

cree against him.

That the conveyance is made to trustees is not a circuinstance of much weight. At manifests an intention
in the drawer of the instrument to avoid the usual
forms of a mortgage, and introduces third persons,
who ai-e perflct strangers to -the transaction, for no
other conceivable purpose than-to entitle William Lyles
to a conveyance subsequ, nt to the. non-payment of the
7001., on the day fixed for its payment, which should
be absolute in its form. This intention, however, would
have no influence on the case, if the instrument was
really a security for money advamced and to be repaid.
It is also a circumstance which, though light, is npt
to be entirely disregarded, that the 20 acres, whith
were admitted to be purchased absolutely, were not divided and conveyed separately It would seem as if
the parties consiered it as at least possible that a division might be useless.
Having made these observations on the deed itself,
the Court will proceed to examine those extrinsic circumstances which are to determine whether it is to be
construed a saile or a mortgage.
It is certain that this deed was not given to secure a
pre-existing debt. The connexion between the parties
commenced with this transaction.
The proof is also complete that there was no negotiation between the parties respecting a loan of money,
no proposition ever made respecting a mortgage.
The testimony on this subject is from NIr. Lyles himself and from, Mr. Charles Lee There is some contrarety in their testimony, but they conctir-in this inaferial' point. Mr Lyles represents Alexander as desrous of selling the whole land absolutely, and himself
as wishing to decline an absolute purchase of more than
twenty acres. Mr. Lee stktes Lyles as having represented to him that Alexander was umvilling to sell
more than twenty acret abs6luttly, and offered t sell
Ahe' residue conditionally There is -not, however, a

FEBRUARY TERM i8im
syllable in the cause, intimating a proposition to bor- coNWAY's
.x'ns.
row money or to mortgage property No expression
T.
is proved to have ever fallen from Robert Alexander
before or after the trapsaction, respecting a loan or a l.FIXANDEr.
mortgage. He does not appear to have imagined that
money was to be so obtained, and when it -became absolutely necessary to raise money, he seems to have
considered the 'sale of property as hls only resource.
To this circumstance the Court attaches much importance. Had there been any treaty-any conversation respecting a loan or a mortgage, the deed might
have been, with more reason, considered as a cover intended to veil a transaction differing in reality from the
appearance it assumed. But there was no such conversation. The parties met and treated upon the ground
of sale and not of mortgage.,.
It is not entirely unworthy of notice that William
Lyles. was not a lender,.of money, nor. a man who was
in the habit of placing his funds beyond his reach.
This, however, has not been relied upon, because the
evidence is admitted to be complete, that Lyles did, not
intend to take a mortgage. But it is insisted fhat he,
intended to take a security for money, and to avoid the
equity of redemption, an intention which a Court of
Ch'fncerv will invariably defeat.
His not being in the practice of lending money is
certainly an argument against his intending this transaction as a loan, and the evidence in the cause furnishes strong reason for the opinion that Robert-Alexander
himself did not so understand it; In this view of' the
case the proposition made to Lvles, being for a sale
and not for a mortgage, is entitled to great consideration. There are othev circumstances, too, which bear
strongly upon'this point.
'The case, in its own nature, furnishes intrinsic evidence of the improbability that the trustees would have
conveyed to William Lyles without somo communication with Robert Alexander. They certainly ought to
have knwn from himself, and-it was easy to procure
the information, that.the money had not been paid. If
he had considered this .deed as a mortgage, he would

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'o~wAy's naturally have resisted the conveyance, and it is probaEx'Rs. ble that the trustees would have declined making it.
V.
This probability is very much strengthened by the facts
ALF,XAN- which are stated by Mr. Lee. The declaration made
rD.a.
to him by Lyles, after having carried the deed drawn
by Mr. Lee to Mr. Hooes, that the trustees were unwilling to execute it until the assent of Alexander could
be obtained, and the directions given to apply for that
assent, furnish strong reasons for the opinion that ths
assent was given.
It is also a very material circumstance that, after a
public sale from Lyles to Conway, and a partition between Conway gnd Charles Alexander, Conway took
pbssession of the premises, and lkegan those expensive
improvements which have added so much to the value
of the property I These facts must be presumed to have
been known to Robert Alexander. They passed within
his view. Yet his most intimate friends never heard
him suggest that he retained any interest in the land.
In this aspect of the cases too, the will of Robert Alexander is far from being unimportant. Thathe mentions
forty acres sold to Baldwin Dade, and doss not.mention
one hundred and forty acres, the residue of the same
tract, can be ascribed only to the opinion that the residue was no longer his.
This, then, is a case in which there was no previous
debt, no kdan ii contemplation, no stipulation for the
repayment of the money advanced, and no proposition
for or conversation about a mortgage. It is a case in
which one party certainly considered himself as making
a purchase, and the other appears to have considered
himself as making a conditional .sale. Yet there, are
circumstances which nearly balance these, and have induced much doubt and hesitation in the mind of some
of the court.
The sale, on the part of Alexander, was not completely voluntary He was in jail and was much pressed for a sum of money. Though this circumstance
does not deprive a man of'the right to disp6se of his
propertys it gives a complexion to his contracts, and
ihust have some influence in a doubtful case. The very
fact that the sale was conditionil, implies an expectation to redeem.

PEIRUARY TERM istg.

!

A conditional sale made'in such a situatioiA at a price CONWAtI
bearing no proportio to the value of theproperty Ex'11s.
would brihg suspicion on the whole transaction; The
T.
exc6psive inadequacy of price woudl in, itself, in the AtiExK4
opinion of some of the judges, furnish irresistable proof DEnR.
that a sale could not'have been itendcd. If lands were sold at. 51. p6' acre conditionally, which, in fact, were
worth i5l. or 2o1, or .501. 'per acret the' evidence furn~shed by this fact,'tthat- only a security for money could
be intended, .woig bO, in Ihe opinion of three judges,
-so strong as tb1Verrule all the. opposing testimony in
the cause.
But the testimony on this point is too uncertain and
conflicting to prevail against he strong proof of intending a sale and ptrchase, which was stated
The sales made by Mfr. Dick and Mr. Hartshorne or"
lots for building, althoughr of land more reinote from
the town of Alexandkia than'that sold to Lyles, may be
more valuable as building lots,, and may consequently
sell at a much higher price than this ground would
lave commanded. The relative value of property in
the neighborhood of a town depends on so many other
circumstances than mere distance, and is 4 different at
different times that these sales cannot be taken as a
sure guide.
That twenty acres, part of the tractj were-sold absolutely for 51. per aQre, that Lyles sold to Conway at a
very small advance, that he had previously offered the
tProperty to others unsuccessfully, that it was valubd
by several persons at- a price not much -above what he
gave, that Robert Alexander, although rich in other
prpperty, mad no effort to relieve this, are facts which
,ender the real value, at the time of salej too doubtful
to make the inadequacy, of price a circumstance of suficient weight to convert this deed'into a mortgage,.
It is, therefore, the opinion of.the Mourt that the de;
cree of the Circuit Court is erroneous and ought to -be
)-eservel, ,and that the cause be remanded 'to that Court
with dirtctions to disnuss the bill.
Decree -reversed.

VOL. VIIT

-

4."

