35-1
ii ND
W.
QiAy.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

act which contains the usual exceptions in fAvor of infants, &o. and allows three years after the removal of
the impediment to bring their suit.
It is contended that since the act of limitations runs
against a person beyond sea from the time of his coming
into the country, so from analogy it ought ,to run
against a non-resident merchant from the time of his
coming, though for a mere temporary purpose, within
the country.
The Court cannot assent to the correctness of this
reasoning. To render it applicable, the rejoinder ought
tso Wtve averred that the Plaintiff had become a resident
of the state of Maryland more than three years before
the institution of the suit. Not having done so, the
words of the exception have never ceased to be applicable to the Plaintiff; and, consequently, the statute has
never commenced to run.
It is the opinion of this Court that the Circuit Court,
erred in overruling the demurrer of the Plaintiff to the
rejoinder of the Defendant.in this cause, and that thb
judgment be reversed and anndUed, and the cause remanded with instructions to render judgment on the
said demurrer.6 favor of the Plaintifl and that further
proceedings may be had therein according'to law.
Judgmnent reversed.

i8iS.

PRESTON v. TREMBLE.

.Absent ....TODD, J.
ERROR to
equitaie
thle be merg- East Tennessee,

.i

part

-m relief in
.f gh
t

the Circuit Court for the district of

who had dismissed the Plaintiffs bill in
Chancery, upon demurrep, for want of equity.

T e bill stated that Preston, the Complainant, had
Sbelttle to a tract of land in the state of Tennessee, but
Sbeng e- the Defendant, Tremble, fraudulently and deceitfully entered into it, and holds him out.
to l.

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
In setting forth the title it -is stated, that. the land PREST."
V.
formerly lay within the state of North Car6lina, during
which time, one Ephraim Dunlop made an entry fo- TnFv. .the land in regular form, paid the purchase money to
the state, and performed every other requisite to complete the contract; but before a patent was obtained,
the legislature of North Carolina passed a law, defining
the limits of the Indian boundary, declaring all entrie
and surveys already made-within those limits, to be null
and void, and directing the entry-tkers to refund all
monies received therefor. That Dunlop never received
backthepurchase money, norconsented to annul the contract. That the law of North Carolina,rescindingtlieon-.
tract was void. That Dunlop afterwards obtained a
warrant to survey the land, and obtained a patent therefqr, from the state of North Carolina, and afterwards
conveyed the land to John Rhea, who conveyed to Preston, the Plaintiff.
P B. KEY, for

iland

tit error, contended,

1. That the land was 'within the territorial limits of
North Carolina, wifo had a right to grant it.
%, That the entey and payment of te purchase money, vested in Dunlop an equitable estate in fee in the
land.

3. That the act of May, 1778, was void and inopera.
tive, so far as it attempted to rescind the contract, and
destroy the equitable estate of Dunlop.
4. That although the patent which was issued in 1793,
m contravention of the law of May, 1778, was declared
void and inoperative, to convey the legal title, yet the
equitable estate existed and remained in Dunlop.
5. That no legal title to the, land having passed. to
Dunlop, the Plaintiff could not maintain an ejectment.
6. That when no adequate .relief exists at law, a
Court of equity will interpose its authority, to protect
an equitable estate, and by analogy, will give such full
relief as a Court of law wouid, had the title been legal.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
VJAASTON

TF1BL]3

'

.That the demurrer ought to be overruled.

MARISHALL, Ch. J

If your title is good at law, you have no case in equity. If you have any title it is at law. If you have no
titl6 at law, you can have none in equity. The equitable estate is merged in the grant.
This is aiv attempt to substitue a bill in equity for an
action of trespass.
Dearee affirmed.

BRIG PENOBSCOT
MS.V
vel

w

HE UNITED STATES.

Jbsent....
TODD, J.
Under the

v~on-inter-

TUIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Cir.
cuit" Court of the district of Georgia, which affirmed

'e," that of the District Court, condemning the brig Penobscot, and ber cargo of salt, for a violation of the acts
had
norght of Congress, interdicting commercial intercourse with
to come into
.0"

Xarch,. 18114

waters or Great Britain and her dependencies, (rnz. the acts of
Jlarch ist, i809., vol. 9, p.
fay Ist,
14,18ovol.1,
inquire whetp. 186.-The President'sproclamation of .Nov. 2d, 18i0,
lier she
jandher car. and the act of 2d Mfarch, 1811, p. 346.) By the 4th section of te,act of .MarchIst, 1809, it was not lawful to Import into the United States, or the territories thereof,
any goo~s, wares, or merchandize whatever, from any
port or place situated in Great Britain, or Ireland, or in
any of the colonies or dependencies of Great Britain, nor
fi'rm any port or place in the actual possession of Great
3ritain, nor to import into the United States, &c. from
any foreign port or place whatever, any goods, wares,
or merchandize of the growth, produce. or manifacture
of Great Britain, or Treland, yc.
he

tie'U. s. to

By the 5th section, such goods so imported, (or put on
board any vessel, &c.with intent of ximporting, &c.) as

