FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
universally admitted that the right to freedom is more MIMA
quFuN &
important than the right of property.
CHILD

10.
And people of -color from their helpless condition
HEPnrui.
entitled
are
a
master,
of
under theuncontrolled authority
to all reasonable protection. A decision that hearsay evidence in such cases shall not be admitted, cuts up
by the roots all claims of the kind, and puts a final end
to them, unless the claim should arise from a fact of
recent date, and such a case will seldom, perhaps never.

occur.

1813.

THE BANK OF COLUIBIA
V.

PATTERSON'S

.d

rrb

5tl,.

?eb.

Xlbsent JoHNsoN, J. and ToDD, 3.
ERROR to the Circuit Court fok the district of Columbia, in an action of indebitatits assumpsit, brought
by the Defendant in error against the president, directors, and company of the bank of Columbia, in their
corporate capacity. There were four counts only in the

declaration.

upon a speclaaucontract
tpartofthb
Plaintiff. In-

sumpsit
lie

for

will

the

price.
A simple

1st. Indebitatusassumpsit, for matters properly charge- contact is not
able ini account. 2d. Indebitatusass uanpsit,for wovrk and merged m a
labor done.

3d. quantum meruit,

and Ith, Ismul mert,

computassent.

The Defendant pleaded non assumpsit, and a tender

whicht
recogmerely
nizes
the
the
and fixesdebt,

ofassermode
taillig its amount

On the trial below, the Defendait took three bills of upon geneagrefa
exceptonsspeia
ral counts;
exceptions.
mentexecuted

The 1st stated, that the Plaintiffread m evidence a seal- imay be given
ed agreement, dated 10th December, 1807, between The, recital
Patterson and a duly authorized committee of the di- of a prior, m
rectors of the bank, under their private seals. It re- a later agreecites, that a difference of opinion had arisen between has been exe-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
or Patterson aind the committee for building the -new bankas to certain work extra of an agreement
v.
made between Patterson and the said committee in 1801,

33AK

tOLUMEXA rag-house,
FATTER-

and thereto annexed, whereupon it was agreed, that

soN's

all the work done by Patterson should be m'easured and
valued by two persons therein mentioned according to
certain rates, called in Georgetown old prices, and the
sum certified by them should be taken by both parties,
ettlement, ass the amount
i their
hi
mn~ro thereof It was- also
thereby agreed, that the mot-houses, respecting which

4DMR.

-,
cuted, does
not extings
theforiner

wherever.

corpomtion
aggregate

there had been no specific agreement, should be meais

acting 'wthm surel and valued by the same persons in the same manthe
scope of ner.
The agreement of i801 referred to.in, Ind anthe legitimate

nexed to the agreement of 1807, was also offered in
institution, all evrdence by the Plaitiff, and states, that Patterson had
th..esf

t.

maro
mnade contacts
by ts agreed with the committee to do all the carpenter's work
kuthorized * required, agreeably to the plan of the new bank, and

gents are ex- states particularly the manner in which it was to be
of te pr,,o done and that cii consid(,ration of the work being
ration; and all done" as stated, the committee agreed to -pay Patterson
d
miesimpwd
3,625 dollars as full consideration, and that if, when

pn them by
law, and all the work should be finished, the committee should be of
benefits t con. opinion that that sum was too much, Patterson agreed
erredt te to have the work measured, at the expense of the bank.,
implied 0ro-

,,
'of whch an
action lies.

by two persons mutually appointed, who should'take
" the old prlic es as the standard, ain in case the bill of
measurement did not amount to the sum of 3,625 dol-

lars, Patterson agreed to take the amount of measure-

ment, for full satisfacion. The Plaintiff then read in
evidehce a paper of particulars of the work, certified
by the persons named in the agreement of 1807 The
Defendants offered in evidence the plan of the building.
and that it was built principally according to that plan.
and. the agreement--and that any work other than that
stated in the plan and agreement,, was to be charged separately as extra work, and that it was so charged by
Patterson. before the 10thof December, 1807, the date
of the 2d agreement, who presented the account (so
charged) to the Defendants, claiming the amount of the
.-ame, and claiming also for the work done under the
;greement of 180l, the sum of 3,625 dollars, and provel, that while the work was going on, the Defendants
paid Patterson sundry large sums of money on account
thereof.

FEBRUARY TERM 1M2.
The Court was thereupon prayed by the Defendants BANIK or
to instruct the jury., that if they believed' that the agree- CoLUMBliA
ment of 1804 was assented to by Patterson and the cornV.
mittee as binding bettveen them, and' that the work
PATTERtherein contracted for was done by Patterson, and that SON'S
the sum of 3,625 dollars therein mentionked was claim- ADM'R.
ed by him on account of the same, then the Plaintiff
could recover for no such work, but could only recover
for the work done, extra of the said agreement, which
instruction the Court refused to give.
It was.contended by the Defendants counsel. MonSEL & KEy, that in that refusal the Court below erred
because,
1. Although there were alterations in the building,
after the agreement of 18o0, yet Patterson was bound by
that contract, asfar as it could be traced-and could only
recover for the extra work done under thecounts of this
declaration, which were all general. 1. Comp on contracts, 360.-1eake's cases, 103.
2. Because the Plaintiff was allowed to recover the
value of certain work by measure and value, under 'the
general counts; when he had contracted to do the said
work for 4 certain stipulated price. Esv. X. P 1i38.
The second bill of exceptions states, that the Defendants, upon the same evidence, prayed the Court to instruct the j ury, that the Plaintiff was not entitled to recover under any of the counts, which instruction'the
Court refused to give, but declared that the evidence
was competent.
In this refusal, it was contended that the Court erred.
because, the implied promise to pay for the extra work
was merged ifi the agreement of I807, and there was no
count on 'that, or the other agreement of 1804. 2. S'
B. 419. -Foster*v. Allenson.
The third bill of exceptions states, that the Defen4dantsprayed the Cbuit to iistruct thejury, upon the same
evidence, that the Plaintiff could not recover, unless he
should prove that the Defendants,- after the , measure-

ineg and valuatioi, e presslypromtsedtopay the amount

SUPREME COURT U. S.
EANK oF thereof to the Plaintiff-And that the jury could not
COLUMBIA from the evidehce offered, presume any such promise.This instruction the Court also refused.
v.
PATTER-

soN's
AM'R.

It was contended that the Court erred in this refusal,
because there was an express agreement under seal, relative to the work-and there was no count on that
agreement.
It was also contended, that a corporation aggregate
could not promise otherwise than under its seal-and
therefore the law could not imply a promise.
In support of this propo6ition, the following cases were
cited. Bac. .6b" i3. Tit. corporation. 4. com. Dig. 258.
Vent. 47Tit. Franclses.-Bro.corporatibn,p .3.-i.
1. Salk. i9i.-i. B1. Cam. pt. 2.-i. Roll. Rep. 82.3. P Wins. 19m,Rex -v. Bigg.

Jo i .s& C. LmE Contra-cited 5. Cranch, 61. De
waux v. Bk. of U. S.-Doug. 526, and id. on Corporati ns generally
As to the'forift oT action, viz. assumpsit and not covenant they said the instruments were under the .private
seals of the committee, not the corporate seaj.-The declaration need not show whether the assuminit be express or implied. i. Chitty on pleading, 333j note i.
Where the contract is executed general zndebitatus
assumpsitlies. Fitzgibbon. 302.-Bul. X P i39,-Weaver -v. Burrows. 1. Wil. i7 Al/corn, v. Westbrook, IiAninson's opnion. b. Bos. q Pul. 330.-3. Bos. ck Put. 582.
6. East. 564, 569.-i. Sanders, 272, 276. note 2.-Cowp.
A13.-.Doug. 2. Wat28,!, 289. 9. East.39.-i. T.Z.
son v. Downes.-4. Dali. &28.
STORY

1. delivered the opinion of the Court, as fol-

lows
Several exceptions have been taken to the opinion of
the Court below, which will he considered in the order
in which the objctiflts arising out of them have been
presented to us. We gre sorry to say that the practice
of filing numerous bills of excetions is very inconve-

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
nient, for all the'points of law might be brought before
the Court in a single bill, with a simplicity, winch would
relieve the bar and the bench from every unnecessary

BANK

embarrassment;
As the argument on the first exception has proceeded
upon the ground, that the agreement of 180- was completely executed and performed, and the objection relates only to a supposed mistake m the form of the declaration, it will at present be considered in this view.
And we take it to-be incontrovertibly sottled, that vndebitatus assumpsit will lie to recovor the stipulated price
due on a special contract, not under seal, where the contract has been completely executed, and that it is not
in such case necessary to declare upon the special
agreement.-Gordon v. .Martin-Fitgibbon303.-Jrfusson v. Trice 4. East 17.-Cook -v. Jl nstone, 4. Bos. k
t , 3510.Clarke -. Gray, 6 East. 564, 569. 2. Sand.
350. iote 2.-In the case before the Court, we have no
doubt that ndebitatus assumlpsit was a proper form ot
action to recover, as welt for the work done under the
contract of 1804, as for the extra work. It may, therefore, safely be admitted (as is contended by the Plantiff
in error,) that where there is a special agreement for
building a house, and some alterations or additions are
madepthe special agreement shall notwithstanding b6
considered as subsisting so far as it, can be traced.
Pepper -. Burland,Peake's Rep. 105. The first exception therefore, wholly fails.
Under the second exception, the Plaintiff in eror has
'made various objections.
1. The. first is, that though a promise would be implied by law, fo the extr"a work against the corporation, yet that such promise was extinguished, by operation of law, by the provisions of the sealed contract or
1807
It is undoubtedly true, that a security under
seal, extinguishes a simple contract debt, because it is
ofa higher nature-Cro. Car 45. Bayrn. 4-9. 2. Tones
158. 1. .Brn-9.-5. Coni. Dig. tit. Pleader 2. G. 12. Bui
this effect'never has been attributed to a sealed instrumeit which merely recognizes an existing debt, and provides, a mode to ascertain its amount an liquidation.
At most, the sealed agreement of 1807 could not be

O-

COLUMBIA

v.
PATTEVSON'P
ADM'R.

SUPREME COURT I. A"
BANK OF construed to extend beyond tins import. In no sense
COLumBIA could it be vonsidered as a higher security for the mov.
ney originally due. This objection therefore cannot
PATTiz- ,prevail, even supposing that the agreement were the
soN's
deed of the corporation.
ADM 9R.

2. A second objection is, that the special agreeients,
connected with the certificates of admeasurement were
inadmissible evidence under th general counts, and
could be admissible only under counts framed on the
special agreements.

To this objection an answer has already, in part,
,been given. And we would further observe that if the
agreements connected with the admeasurements, were
the means of ascertaining the value df the work, the
evidence was pertinent under every count. 2. Saund.
12. liote 2. And if the certificates of admeasurement
were of the nature of an award, they were. clearly a4inissible under the snseimul computassentcount. A6e. v.
Batsliore I. .Esp. Rep. i9-1.
3. Another objection is, that as the agreement of iSo1
is sealed, and is connected, by reference with the prior
agreement, they are td be construed as one-sealed instrument, and assunpsit will not lie upon an instrument under seal.
The foundation of this objection utterly fails, for the
agreement is not under the seal of the Corporation,but
the seals of the committee, and if it were otherwise, it is
too plain for argument. that the original agreement was
not extinguished, but referred to, as a subsisting agreeient. It is quite impossible to contend that the mere
recital of a prior, in a later agreement, after it has been
lxecuted, extinguishes the former.
Two other'objections are made under this exception,
but as they are answered in the preceding observations,
it is unnececsary to notice them farther.
Under the third exception, the only objections relied
on, 're in principle the same, as the, objections urged
under the former exceptions and they admit the same
answersa

FEBRUARY TERM

is.

The case has thus been considered all along, as though BANK of
the contracts were made between the Plaintiff's adminis- COUMBIA
v.
trator and the Corporation, and indeed some points in
the argument have proceeded upon this ground. It is PA'1TBvery clear, however, that neither the first nor second 'soN's
agreements were made by the corporation, but by the ADM'L
committee in their own names. In consideration of the
work. being done,' the committee, and rot the corporation, personally and expressly 4gr e-to pay the stipu.,
lated price. A question has therefoe occurred how far
the corporation were 'capable of contracting, except under their corporate seal ; and if it were capable, as no
special agreement is found in' the case, how 'far the facts
proved4 shew an express or an implied contract on the
part of the corporation.
Antiently it seems to have been held, that corpora;
tions could not do any thing without deed. :3. H. 8.
Ie-4.

H, 7, 6.- 7. H. 7,9.

Afterwards the rule seems to have been relaxed, and'
they were, for conveniency's sake, permitted to act in ordinary matters without deed; as to retain a servant,
cook, or butler. Flow. 91. b.-2. Sand. 305. and gradually this relaxation widened to embrace, other objects.
ev. 107. .Moore 12.
Bro, Corp. 5i.-s. Salk. 191.-.
At length it seems to have been established that 'though
they could not contract r directly, except under their
corporate seal, yet they might by mere vote or other
corporate act, not under their corporate seal, appoint
an agent, whope acts and contracts, within the scope
of his authority, would be binding on the corporation;
Rex v. Bigg, S. P. Wins. 49; and Courts of equity, in
this respect seemin.g to follow the law; have decreed a
specific performance of an agreement made by a major
part of a corporation, and entered in the corporation
books, although 'not under the Corporate seal, 1. Fotib.
305, Phil. ed. note (o.)-The sole ground ujon which
such an agreement can be inforced, must be the capacity
of the corporation, to make an unsealed contract.
As it is conceded, in the present case, that the comin
mittee were fully authorized to make agieements, there
tould then be -no doubt, that a contract made by them in
the name of the Coporation,and not in their own names,
V)
VoL. VII.

aO

SUPREME COURT U. S.

)VANK OF would have been binding on the corporation.
As, howCoLtrMBIA ever, the committee did not so contract, if the principles
V.
of law on this subject stopped here, there would be'no
PTTER- remedy for the Plaintiff, except agaihst the committee.

SON'S
ADM'R.

' The technical doctrine, that a corporation could not
contrict# except under its seal, or, in other words,
could not make a promise, if it ever had been fully settled, must have been productive' of great mischiefs. Indeed as soon as the doctrine was established that its regularly appointed agent could contract in their -name
without seal, it was impossible to support it; for otherwise the party who trusted. such contract would be
without remedy against the corporation. Accordingly
it would seem to be a sound rule of law, that wherever
a corporation is a~ting within -the scope of the legitiniate purposes of its institution, all parol contracts made
by its authorized agents, are express promises of the
corporation ; and all duties imposed on them by law,
and all benefits conferred at their request, raise irplied
promises, for the enforcement of which, an action.may"
well lie. And- It seems to the Court, that adjudged
cases fdlly support the position. Bank of England v.
.Iffat, 3.Bro..Ch. Rep. 262.-Rex. T. Bank of England
Doug. 324, and note ibidem.-Gray v. PortlandBanf, s.
Jfass. Rep. 361.-Worcester Turnpike Corporation V. Willard, 5- .11ass. Rep. 80.-Gilnore v. Pope, 5. Mass. Rep.
4 9i..--- lover , Mcdford Turnpike (orporation iv.Gould,
.6. AUass. Rep. 4 0.
In the caie before the Court, these principles assume
t peculiar importance, The act. incorporating the Bank
'of Columbia, (act of . laryland, 179s, ch. so,_) contains
no express provision authorizing the corporation to
make contracts. Anti it follows, that -upon principles
of the commotilaw, it might contract under its corporate seal. No power is directly given to issue note&
not under seal., The corporation is made capable to
have, 'purchasge, receive, enjoy and retain, lands, tenealents, lereditaments, goods, chattels and effects, of
What kind, nature, or quality, soever, and the same to
sell, grant, demise, alien, or dispose of-and the board
of directors are authoriz'ed to determine the manner of
doingbusiness, and the rules and forms to be pursued;
to appoint and pay. the 'arious officers, and dispose of

FEBRUARY TERM i83.
xhe money or credit .of the bank, in the common course BAK oF
of banking, for the interest and bencft of the proprie- COLUMBIA
-.
tors. Unless, therefore, i corporation, not expressly
authorized, may make a promise, it might be a serious PATTrRsos's
question, how far the bank notes of this bank were legally binding upon the corporation, and how far a de- ADSI'B.
positor in the bank could possess a legal remedy for his
property confided to the good faith of the corporation.
In respect to insurance companies also, it .would be a
difficult question to decide, whether !he law would enable a party to recover back a premium, the consideratioir of which had totally failed. Public policy therefore,
as well as law, in the judgment of the Court, fully justifies the doctrine hicli we have endeavored to establish,
Indeed the opposite doctrince if it were yielded to, is so
purely technical, that it could answer no salutary pur!vQse, and would almot universally contravene the publie convenience. Where authorities do not irresistibly
require an acquiescence in such technical mceties, the
Court feel no disposition to extend their influence.
Let us-now consider what is the evidence in this case,
from which the jury might legally infer an express, or
an implied promise of the corporation. The contracts
were for the exclusive use and benefit of the corporation, and made by their agents for purposes authorized
by their charter. The corporation proceed, on the
faith of thosp contracts, to pay money from time to time
to the Plaintiff's intestate. Although, then, an action
might have laid against the committee personally, upon
their express contract, yet as the whole benefit resulted
to the corporation, it seems to the Court, that from
this evidence thejury might legally infer that the corppration had adopted the contracts of the committee,
and had voted to pay the whole sum which should become due under the contracts, and that the Plaintiff's
intestate, had accepted their engagement. As to the
extra work, respecting which there was no specific
agreement, the evidence was yet more strong to bind
the corporation.
In eyery way of considering the case, it appears to
the Court, that therewas no error in the Court below,
and that the judgment ought to be affirmed.

