SUPREME °COURWC U. S.
BRto itude and longitude of the vessel when she bore away.
i's. w iLs given in evidence so as to 'enable the Court to judge.
In short, had the original destination been to the Westv.
u.STATES. Indies, and this known to the crew, it would be difficult
to fix peilury upon any one of those who have given
evidence in this cause.

In such a case, where no presumption can, or ought
to be made in favor of the owner of the vessel, and with
so strong a temptation as he had to violate the law-her
condemnation is inevitable.
Sentence affirned, -with costs.

MARYLAND INSURANCE. COMPANY
10.
LE ROY, BAYARD & MIEVERS-

M82.
F'eb.

11th

.bsent....Marsfiall, chzef justice.
The d&Abarge
erderwrit-

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
ohei
f Maryland, in an action of covenaut brought by Le

liability,
.Roy and others, against th .7arylandInsuranceCompany,
B
of"king upon a policy of insurance upon the Ship Tohn, fiom
o,asef
on board an
additional c -New York to five ports on the coast of 6c Africa, bego,
risednot
byauthothe

"tween Castle D'El na

and Cape Lopez, including those

poliey, de"c ports, and at and from them, or either of them, back to
pends, not up- "NeW York zwith liberties as per orderfor i surance."
on any suppos.
ed increase of
risk, but wholThe order of insurance was as follows, viz: "At
ly on the de- "cwhat rate will you insure three thousand five hundred
parture of the
insured from C ollars upon freight of the ship John of New York,
the contract "c valued at that sum, at and from New York to (Jastle
of insurance.
rte conse- ccD'lmvna, on the gold coast of Africa, with liberty

,iuences
of
a

ofth cont

ccfor the vessel to touch at the Cape de Ferd Islands for

are immaterial 6 and

purchase of stock, such as hogs, goats and poultry
taking in water

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

,,.Also, nine thousand dollars on the American ship

DIARr'D.

INsuvalued at this sum, and eleven thousand eight
"John,
c
of RANCE CO.
ohundred dollars on cargo by said ship consistingmoO
L
tobacco,
LE ROY&
"twine, rum, beef, geneva, dry goods,
s'lasses, &c. at and from Now York to five ports'on the OTHERS.
"coast of Africa, between Castle D'Elmina and Cape __
to its legal era. Lopez, including, those ports, with liberty of touching
as it is,
sand trading at all, or any of said ports, backwards feet,
per se, a disoftithe
charge
the
on
port
last
her
from
and
at
"and forwards, aud
"cCoast, to New York, with liberty of touching at the underwriters;

"Cape. de Ferds on her return passagefor stock and and the law
re- orsnce to
"take in water. It is understood that the captain and
Ile or volun-

to one or more ports that he had touched
traded at before, shall not be considered a deviation. tary

6turning

deviation.

"The John was ready and expected to sail the 13th ecessitY
, inst. There are no cantraband goads on board, and tion a deviation
anytatcase;
dlewana
",the shzp 2s armed with eight carriage guns, r wvith am- m
be
must
at:on
and
vessel
excellent
an
is
and
"munition in proportion,
• captain Lawrence, who commands her, is a native of stctly com.
rensurate
"cNew York, well asquainted on the coast of Africa, with the vis
major produethe
intended
is
it
places
the
of
moat
at
been
t and has
"vessel is to stop at, and is a careful experienced sea- ing it.
man."
The declaration was for a total loss by the perils of
the sea. The cause was tried upon the issue of von
nfregit conventioneni, and the verdict and judgment were
for the Plaintiffs with 5t176 dollars damages.
Upon the trial of this issue the Defendants (the'Plaintiffs i error) took twelve bzlls of exceptions, but as'the
opinion of this Court was given upon the 7th only, it is
deemed unnecessary to state the others.
1. The first bill of exceptions stated not only thefacts
which the Plaintiffs and Defendants offered to prove, but
detailed at great length the testimony, and circuimnstances tending to prove those facts, or from which they might
be inferred. Among other facts it stated that the ship,
in the prosecution of her voyage arrived at the island of
Fogo, one of the Cape de Verd Islands, on the 7th of
May, 1805, where the captain received on board four
Indlocks andfouraack-asses, besides water and other provisions, and unstowed tke dry goods and broke open two

SUPEME COURT U. S.
xARY'p.

bales and took out 40 pieces

OTHERS.

to three days unless the weather should be very .unfavorable, that the weather was good, and that the bullocks and jack-asses incumbered the deck much more
than small stock would have done.

each for trade. That
INsuthe ship remained there until of
the 24th of
That
RAN'c, co. the time generally employed by a vessel May
in taking in
LE ROY & stock and water at the Cape de. Yerd Islands is from two

7 The 7th bill of exceptions stated that the Defendants gave in evidence all the facts detailed in the preceding bills of exceptions, and thereupon prayed the
Court to direct the jury, that if they believe the same,
then the taking the said jack-asses on board the said ship
John, while she lay at the. Island of Foqo, was not within the privilege allowed to the Plpntiffs in this cause to
touch at the Cape de Verd Islands in the performance
of the voyage insured for the purchase of stock and to
take in water, and therefore vitiates the policy, wlach direction the Court refused to give; ],it the Court was of
opinion, and accordingly directed the jury that the taking
in the four jack-asses at the Isle of Fogo as aforesaid,
(lid not avoid the policy, niless the risk -was thereby zncreased, whereupon the counsel for the Defendants
excepted.
M.LRTiv, for Plavitis rn error,
As to the 7th exception9 contended, that the liberty to
touch at the Cape de Verds to purchase stock and take
in water, did not authorize the takingthe jack-asses on
board. The natural tendency was to increase. the riskand it was immaterial whether the risk was in fact increased.
WINDER,

contra.

The question upon the 7th bill of exceptions is only
whether the Court did right in leaving it to the jury to
decide whether the risk was increased by taking in the
jack-asses. It is like the case of Livngston and al. -v.
The . larylanul Insurance Companiy, 6, Cranch271, where
this Court decided that the question whether a fact was
mnaterial to the risk was a question to be decided by 4
jury under the direction of a Court.

FEBRUARY TERM isim
HAnPER,

n the same side.

MIARY'D.
INSURANCE CO.

As to the 7th bill of exceptions, contended, that it was
a question of fact to be decided by the jury, whether the LE O &
taking in the jack-asses increased the risk. This Court OTHERS.
has so decided in the case already alluded to of Livzngston v. The larjland'InsuranceCompany. The principle of the case of Raynev'v. Bell, is, that there was no increase of risk and no delay. The case of Sherff-v. Potts,
is overruled by that of Rayne -. Bell. But the license
to take in stock included jack-asses.
Pxs cN'Y, Afttorneyl General in reply,
The- 7th bill of exceptions stats in effect that the
Court refused to say that the taking in of the jack-asses
discharged the underwriters, although it might produce
delay It is not stated that itdid not produce delay,
and the evience shows that. it did. The principle of
deviatimi is not increase of risk, but delay. If therefore
here was any delay, the policy was vouq from that time.
But it is said they had license to take in jack-asses,
because they were stock. But the order for insurance
upon the vessel refers to the preceding order for insurance on the freight, which was written on the same pa.
per, and connected by the word "1also." In the order
for insurance-upon the freight, the stock is particularly
stated to be ",such as hogs, goats and poultry.1" They
could'no more take jack-assess under this license, than
they could take -plows, horsei, carts, or goods and mer-chandize, which are also stock.
The ship had a special license to touch for a special
purpose, and E.xpresszo unius est excluto altenus. The
contract of insurance is -upon a voyage specific as to its
nature, destination, &c. Ifthe act done be calculated to
tend to encrease the risk, it is immaterial whether the
risk he actually increased. The case of Rayne and Bell,
in 9 Eqat, i95, in some respects is not law-but in this
respect it is good law and.supported by analogy. It
goes on the ground of delay orrtsk. The case of Sheriff
and Pots, cited in the late editon of Marshall, is not
overruled by Rayne and Bell, althoug Stitt and Wardepl is.

SIPREME CiURTr U. S.

Feb. 22, A'll the Judges being present,

DrARY'D.

INSU-

RANCE
CO.
7).

JOHMOSox J. delivered the opinion of the Court as fol-

LE ROY & lows
OTHERS.

In deciding on this cause the Court will confine itself
to the case made out on the 7th exception. Its decision on the point presented by that exception disposes
of the case finally
The opinion prayed for was, that, by taking in, at
Fogo, an additional cargo, not sanctioned by the contract of insurance, the insurers were discharged friom
their liability under the policy., The charge, delivered
by the Court, was, that the subsequent liability of the
underwriters must depend upon the question, whether
any increase of risk resulted from the shipping of
that additional cargo.
In this charge, this Court are of opinion, that 'the
Court below erred.
The discharge of the underwriters from their liability
in such cases, depends, not upon any supjosed increase
of risk, but -,holly on the departure of the insured from
the contract of insurance. The consequences of such
violation of the contract are immaterial to its legal effect,
as it is, per se, a discharge of the underwriters, and the
law attaches no importance to the degreeincases of voluntary deviation, necessity alone can sanction a deviation in any case, aitd that deviation must be strictly
commensurate. with the -cs niqaor producing it. The
case of Rayne and Bell has been cited as supporting a
contrary doctrine.
Without being understood to acquiesce in the cozrect>
ness-of that decision, it may be remarked that the question was not, in that case, whether the lading, taken in
at Gibralter, was within the terms of the policy, as in the
present- but what "ctswere lawful to be done during
the delay occasioned. by a justifiable cause of deviation.
On the contrary, the case of Shernff and Potts was a case
of voluntary departure from the stipulations of the policy, and the decision suppogts the opiiuon we now give.

FEBRUARY TERM .isui
It may also beremarked, that, in the case 6f Rayne and iARY'D.
Bell the notice which Lord Ellenborough takes of the INSucase of Sher~' and Potts, virtually admits the doctrine RADCE CO.
LE RO &
upon which this Court ifounds its decision.
The terms of this policy so far as connected with this
decision) are, ",with liberty of touching at the Cape do
6,Verd Islands, on her outward passage, for stock, and
"to -take in water.'" Touching, in its nautical sense,
is known to be the most restrictive word that can be
adopted in such a case. Construing the license according to the subject matter, and in its necessary connection.
with the offer on the freight, it could mean no more than
permission to provision the vessel with live stock, such
as is usual on a voyage, and may be, procured at the
Cape de Verds.
It might, indeed, admit of a doubt whether any of the
larger animals used for food, were included within the
policy. The words of the first offer certainly were intended to confine the permission to the smaller animals,
Stock is a term of the most general import In its present extended application, it would include a great variety of subjects that never could have entered into contemplation of the parties.
In what sense was the term used? Is the question to
be decided not what uses it niight have been applied to
in other contracts, or between other parties. The general want of precision in the language of maritime contracts, is an endless source of litigation among mercantile men. Courtp of justice are therefore obliged to resort to such reasons as the nature, object and terms of
the contract present, to determine the precise extent or
the obligation of the parties.
We feel no inclination to add to the number ofc-use&
which vitiate a p6licy, hut the amount- of the'premium
depends upon such a variety of considerations, (as often
suggested by caprxce as by judgment,) that thecontractz
whatever it is, must he substanially adhered to.
J'udgment rzversed.

OTHERS'

