16B

KING v. RIDDLE.

12.
March

smt M=~ COURT UM~ S.

Sd.

f'resent.... II the- Judges.
ERROR to the Circuft Court ,for the District of

A rei~ m

deed 15 god Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.
,evidence to
take a case out
Riddle brought an action of assumpsit in the court
of the statute
of limitations. below against King. The declaration contained a gqA discharge neral count for money paid 9 laid. out and expended by
underth - of the Pla'ntiff for the use of the Defendant'.-and-a spqcial
-the District aof count
Columbi, 1

eg

action.

which stated that the Defendant in the year i79s
taken in execution upon judgments of t"e county

Court of Fairfax at the suit of Fosters and May, gave
a prison-Iounds-bond, with sureties, wincai bond he forfeited, and judgment was obtained against his suretieq.
That the Plaintiff (who was not bound in the bond) did
afterwards, at the request. of the Defendant, advance,
settle and- pay the one sixth part of the judgmepit,
amounting to 350 dollars and 52 cents, and that the
Defendant in consideration thereof undertook, &c.
The Defendant pleaded lwn assumpsit, and -non assvmpsit nlfra quznque anuos, 4c. upon which, isoues.
were joined, and upon the trial -the Defendant took, a
bill of exceptions to the refusal of the court to instruct
tho jnry that the evidence was not sufficient in law to
enable the Plaintiff to recover in this action.
Tha evidence stated in the bill of exceptions was as
follows:
1. A paper signed and sealed by the Defendant on
the i5th-of July, i80o, reciting that the Plantiff and
9ters had become his sureties for a large debt due
Iq Mr. John Foster, and having become accountable,
had paid the debt, and he, the-Defendant, being desirous
ta-.'icure them as far as he could, assigned to Thomap
Vowell., one of his sureties, certain bonds In trust tp
collect the money and distribute it equally among them.
2, The testimony of the said Thomas Vowell that ha
-had never received any thing upon those bondo

FEBRUARY TERI A812:
o3. The testimony of John McDQnald, that some time
nd
in the summer of, 1799 he heard the -Defendant say he ' v.owed the Plainfiff' sum of money, but he,did not state nzribmn.
the amount, nor upon what account lie owed it..
•4. An abstract of the judgment apainst the sikreties
amounting to 2,103 dollars and 12 cenits, and.
5. A receipt at the bottom thereof signed by "Posters
and May, dated September i8th, 1799, as folloVs
"The above sum of 2,i03 dollars and 19 cents has been
discharged by the negotiable notes ,of John, Harper,
William Harper, Thomas Vowell, jr. Samuel Harper
ind Joshua Riddle, at thirty days, and the cash of
Charles Harper,.which notes, when paid, will stand in
full payment of the above judgnent and costQ,"
All the above hamed persons, -except Joshua. Riddle,
the Plaintiff, were bouid in the l ond.
The, writ in the present suit was issued on,the Ist of
July,'809.
The Befendant offered m 1 "

The D~fndat ofere

inevidence

a copy of his cer;-

tificate of discharge from imprisonment, datdAugust'
12, 1805, under the act of Congress for the relief of insolvent debtors within theDistrict of Columbia-F'oL 6,
,p.94.
The verdict and judgment being against the Defendant, he brought his writ of error.
E. I. Ira, for 4he Platntijj z error, contended,
I. That the Plaintiff's evidence did not maintain his
action.

If he- had any cause of 'action it was upon the sealed
instrument. There was no evidence of. the request of
the Defendant to the Plaintiff to pay the money, and he
was under no legal obligation to pay it. He was not a
party-to the judgment on the pripon-bounds-bond. The
receipt states the judgment to be paid by the notes of
the Plaintiff and others; but it does not appear that the
Plaitliffhas ever paid this note.
VOL. VII.
913

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Na
Iv.
xzDDLE.

!Z.There is no evidence to take the case out of the
statufe of limitations, exceptthe testimony of II,'Donald,
which is too vague and indefinite.
a. The Defeidant bfing been discharged under the
insolvent act, no suit can be maintained against him
without showing that he has, acquired new property
since his discharge.
SwA N, contea.

i. The Plaintiff was no party to the sealed instrument. He is only named in the recital. It contained
no contract gn the part of the Defendant to pay the
Plaintiff. But it is evidence from wInch the jury iight
infer that the Plaintiff had paid the money at his request. It is true there was no positive evidence that
the, note had been paid, but there are circumstances
from which the jury might infer it.
2. The recital in the instrument acknowledging the
debt was on the i5th of July, 1801, and the suit was
brought upon the ist of July, 1809 so that b years had
not elahled.
S. The'discharge tinder the insolvent law,, only dischargegs the person-it is no bar ta an action.
farch th.... lUthe Judges (except Dtrvalt, J.) bezvg
present,
MiAsHA.L, Oh. .T. delivered the opinion of the court
to the following effect:

In this case the whole evidence is spread upon the
record by the bill of exceptions, and the Court belowrefused to instruct the jury (as requested by the Defendant) that it was not sufficient in law to enable the
Plaintiff tor recover in this action.
If the Court ought to have given this instruction,
their refusil'is certainly error.
The evidence shows that a note was given, or money
paid by the Plaintiff for the use dft the Defendant, but

FEBRUA Y TER - 1812.

171

objected that it was not paid at.te -request of the. r~n.
it is,
v.
Defendant. If the Plaintiff was not blound :to pay it,

and if it was paid without te request of the Defendant,

Rwnnin.

it is certain that the Plaintiff is.not entitled to recover .
Butthe Court thinks that theatcital in the deed of as-.
signment is evidence from winchthe jury mightinfitr a
request,
The Court is also of opinion thit the recital in the,
dee.d&is sufficient to take the case out of the statute of
limitations. .Although the Court is not v illing to. extend the. effect of casual or accidental -pxpressions fartber than it has b'dn, to take a case out of that stattute,
and although the Cnurt nght be of- opinion -that, the
cases on that point have gone too farp yet this is not a
casual or incautious expression. the deed admits the
debt to be due on the Vth of July, 1801, alifive years
bad not afterwards elapsed before the suit was brought.
Then it is objected that -there is no evidence of the
payment of the. money'by'the PIaintiff, but the Court
thinks- that the recital of the deed is evidence from
which the jury might"infer the.payment.
There was no error respecting. the discharge, lner
the insolvent act. It was only a discharge-,of the person, and could not affect the judgment.

Judgment affir'ntd.

DAVY'S EXECUTORS -c. FAW

1842.
March

Sd.

awardill
.THIScase seems to be sufficiently stated in the An
aetabe
not
on
;,
Ch.
m equity
66d
MAmsnAi,
by
delivered
following opniion.

theoth of. March....AII the Judges being present.

on

ut of

an omission by

Circuit Court the arbitrators
This 19 an appeal kfom a decree of the
Chancery, by part of th
in
fpr the county of Alexandria, sitting
betwe.pn the atters sub
made
award
an
aside
set
Court
tha
Wbnch
tat oarion
parties., and d4ected an account.

