FEBRUARY TERM 18i2.
of Winchester against Jackson, whMclChad been dismissed on the motion of Jackson, -whcosts, at a for-

CAL.DWELL

mer termVo
JACKSOn.

now showed cause, and contended, that
esdue tohum
Jackson was not liable to the clerk for lus fees, 1nas- ffrom
eal parmuch as Jackson was the Defendant in error, and the tyespecvewrit of error had"been dismissed with costs. The clerk ly.
must look to thePlaitiff in error for all the costs.. The A 5Or -n
bill, wch had been rendered, included the expense of not a part, f
a copy of the record, which is not regularly taxable as the taabl
be reCovered
costs, and therefore the non-payment of that charge
by one party
can be no ground for an attachment.
the
aganst
Mitno,

other- but the

DuvAx. , 3. In Maryland, each party paws to the party, vboreclerk his own fees, that is, the fees for those services quests the cowhich the clerk has performed for hum, and the suc- Pe clerk for
cessful party recovers them 'from his antagonist. If it.
either party requires a copy of the record he must pay
for it, as for any other'service performed, but it is not
a part .of the costs which -are to be taxed against the
other party, as costs of suit.
Mtareh 13th..... Olt the Judges bevig lresent,
, Ch. J. stated the opinion of the Court to
MA.1iLH
be, that each party was liable to the clerk for Imu fees
for services performed for such party, and it is immaterial to the clerk which party recovers jiltjdgment.
Rule absolute.

BLACKWELL v. PATTEN AND

OTHERs.

-i.8t2
March

13th.

of erJONES, for thme Defendants in error,moved this Court.
to dismiss the writ of error, because it bore teste of Fe- eorissued in
brary term, 1010, was issued in September, ±810, and etete
was returnahl6 to Februaryterri,:I8t, whereas, it ought of the Febrhnd
ry term pre.
to have been'tested of .zitgust term, I80. The Plain- ceding,
tiff m error, aware of this objection, has sued out an- maybeveum.other writ of error, which standl on a subsequent part able to the
of fhi, docket.

term, notwhj.

tUPREME CIURT U. 9.

278

CAMPBELI, On the sane side. Jugustterm is as iauch
a term fir tests and retun of -writs as February term.
suppose thewrit'borc teste ten years ago it,might as

BLACK-

WF, r
v.

PATTME&-well

be made returnable to February term, 1811, as

this writ which bore teste of February term, 1810. If
tested of Februqry trm 1810, it onghitt have been
the returnable to -August term, 1819, aud npt tq February

OTHERS

stand'in

interveptioool
terrm, betm --en

rtur ten
writ.

....

The appearanceof the Defendants in error only cures
the want of a citation, not a fault in the writ of error
itself.
Jlarch ibth.... t81the Judges being present,
The CO3IRT reiused to quash or dismiss the writ of
error on account of the irregularity of its teste.

WALLEN v. WILLIAMS.
i812.
March

13.

Present ....All the Judges.
This Court

an

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the district of Tennessee, to reverse a decree in Chancery. The Court

had issued a writ of habere factas possessionenm
below
bxeeutiown

The writ of error was too late to
issued by the to enforcetl'decree
Certbelto be a supersedem3 to the decree.
cree pending
the wrTt of er- JONES,
writ
ror,if the
oferror be not the writ

for the Plainfiff i error, now moved to quash
of habere facis as irregular, and contended

a supersedeas that the Court below, sitting as a Court of Chancery,
tn the decree, under the laws of Tennessee, could only enforce by execution decrees for the payment of niney, and cited Tennessee La~ws, Ed. 1807, p. 158. § 2.
P B. KnY, contra. This Court has no jurisdiction
to quash an execution issued from the Court below, and
eecuted. But if this Court had the power to do it, it
would not in its discretion quash a process which has
merely carried into effect the decree of the Court below. If the decree be reversed upon the merits, the ex-

