SUPREME COURIT. X S.,
2wTolf

marshal returned the writ and st;ited this fact . t)

law

-).

would have abated it as to -Fisher;'m. which case the
,VTIT & objection to the subsequent proceedinga against Barton
nAYA b. would have been removed. But since the Plaintiff could
- not have supported his action origihally against one
Defendant on a joint cause of action where it appeared
by his own showing, or by a plea in' abatement, that
there was anotheD person who. was jointly bound, and
might be sued, he ought not to be permitted, after stating a joint cause of action, to abata or discontinue his
action against one, unless authorized to do so by the
return of the process- against that Defendant.' If he
does so, it furnishes a good ground ior arresting the
judgment.
It is contended, in support of this judgment, that, ao,
by the law of Virginia, the Plaintiff must file his declaration at the next succeeding rule day after the Defendant shall have entered his appearance, or that the
Defendant may rule him to do so, which if he fails, to
do, he shall be non-suit, the Plaintiff not only may, but
is bound to proceed against one Defendant alone after
he has appeared. But the Court understands this law
as applying to a single Defendant, or, if there be more,
to the appearance of all the Defendants.
Judgnpent reversed.

18i2.
'March

WILSON v. KOONTZ.

6th.

-Preseut.....ll the Judges.
The Defen,ant to an at-

tachment m
-chancery in

Virginia may

plead the statute of limita-

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Circult Court for the district of Columbia, which dismissed
the Complainant's bill in. equity.

tions without
j~n~ero

Wilson filed a bill in equity, in the nature of an attachinent in chancery, againat Koontz, surviving part-

aDefendant
who remoyca

ras Arvine and Joseph Mandeville as garnishees.

ner of Koontz and Ober, as principal debtor, and ThoIt

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

stated that Koontz, a resident of Virginia, as surviving Wsmso#

T;
partner of the firm of Koontz and Ober, was indebted
to the Plaintiff by note, in'the sum of 1,261 dollars, and IXooXTZ.
had in the hands of Thomas Irvine and Joseph Mandeanother
h
counfroone
attached tyto
ville goods and effects which were liable to be les
nothe
"
.
'y
could
he
unless
for the payment 6f the debt; -and that
not therepy
make them liable by the intewention of the- Court- bels prevented
low, he would he without any means of, recovering
debt. In tender consideration whereof, and for as much the atoeni
unless
tatons,
the
subject
only
could
and
as he had no remedy at law,
effects and money in the hands of Irvine and Mandeville has been, by
rVinoval,
to the payment of his debt by means of a Courtof equi- sirch
eRatualor
Koontz
that
aecree
a
and
ty, he prays a discovery,
may structed in
may pay the debt, and that Irvine and Mandeville their
bringmg or
be restrained from paing away the effects in
hands, and that they may be applied to the payment of his aetoo.
the debt, and for general relief.
Koontz having entered his appearance, gave security
to perform the decree of t1he Court if it should he
against him,,tlrreby discharging the attached effects,
(ndpleaded the statute of limitations in bar of the suit;
to which the Complainant replied, that on the 4th of
August, 179,, a suit was brought by the orders of the
Complainant, m the name of the president, directors
and company of the bank of Alexandria as nominal
Plaintiffs in the District- ourt in the town of Winchester, in the state of Virginia, upon the note in the-bill
mentioned, against Koontz and Ober; and upon the
writ the sheriff returned that Koontz was not found,
and'that Qber was- no inhabitant of that countk. That
in September, 179-, it was agreed that Koontz should
place, in the hands of the Complainant sundry bonds
towards the discharge of the note, and that he would
pay the balance in 12 or 18 months-in consequence of
which the suit -was dismissed, 'inpursuance of which
arrangement part of the money was paid, and the residue.is still due with interest. That afterwards, in the
year-1794, Koontz removed into some other part of the*
state of Virginia, unknown to the Complainant. That
A 1803, the Complainant having learnt the residence.
of the Defendant in Rockin bau county,.60 or 70 miles
from his formerresidence, and more remote from the
Complainant, oldeted a suit against him, which was
broug it, 1iif not prosecuted, because the Defendant re.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
vnx:sow quired security for costs. frorm the Complainant, who
v.
did not reside in Virginia.
9OONTZ,

To this replication there was a general rejoinder and
issue, and a general dedimus to take depositions. Upon
the return of which the Cause came to hearing upon the
pleadings and evidence. Whereupon the court below
decreed that the bill should be dismissed nith costs,
from which decree the Complainant appealed to this
Court.
E. I. LEE, for the gfppellant.
It was not necessarv for the Compfaiant to rcply
matter to bring himself within an exception to the statute of limitations, because the ci'cumstances which
lalke the case out of the statute are stated in the bill.
Before the Defendant can be permitted to plead the
statute, lie must, by answer, either deny the debt or ave?
it to be pai. Gilb. chanccry pracitice, 61.
The statute of limitations is not properly a plea in
equity The statute does not make it an absolute bar
in equity
It is only under the equity (i. e. the reason)
of the statute that Courts of equity allow it to le pleaded. If it appear clearly that the debt has not been paad.
the statute is no bar in equity. The questions put by
Koontz upon the examination of the witnesses show
that Ilic debt was not paid. Less evidence than this
has been held to take a case out of the statute. It
would have been no bar for Ober, who never resided in
Virginia. and if not a gord bar for Ober it was nof
for Koontz. The plea does not state that Ober, tht
other partner, did not prorisc within 5 years,
TAT-roR, Contra.
'T[here isnothing in the replication or the evidence to
take the case out of the statute. The only question
then is whether the statute is a good plea in a suit in
chancery. This is not properly a case of equity-jurisdiction. It is simply an action at law upon a promisory
note. Nothing gave jurisdiction to the Court as a
Court of equity, hut the circumstance that the Defen2ant was a resident of Virginia Ind had efl'ectq m the

FEBRUARY TERM im8.
hands of residents in this district. The Defendant wusoN
having appeared and giVen security, so as to discharge.
-0.
the attached effects,.nothing remains to be decided but KOONTZ.
the slicer law of the case, and when a Court of equity
gets possession of a case which is a mere case at law,
if it is allowed to proceed at all it must decide tho case
as a Couft of law would decide it.
If a bill charge fraud or trust, it is admitted that the
Defendant must answer to the fraud or trust before Ike
can vlead the statute of limitations. But this bill
charges no fraud nor trust, nor seeks any discovery
from the Defendant. He is therefore not bound to answer, but may rely entirely on his plea. S F Will. i..
The South Sca Comtp. v. TJWjnzondbell. 2 Corn. Dig. 261.
2 .Ak. 51. If the Complainant thnlm!s the plea'bad he
may demur, or except. But here is neither exception
nor demurrer. Laws of Virg. Rev. Code, 73, ยง , o,
M7farch 1Oth....All the ,udges ocing present,
MAnIsriAmL, Oh. .1. delivered the opinion of the Court
to the following effect.

This is a suit in chancery, aid the Defendant pleads
the act of limitations. The Plaintiff by his replication
attempts to bring the case vithin the exception contained in the A
1 th section 'of that act; but it seems essential, under that section, that the Complainant should
have been actually defeated or obstructed _ip bringing
his action by the removal of the Defendant. There is
no evidence of his intention of bringing his action sooner than lie did, or that he was delayed by the Defendant's removal from the county The Court is therefore
of opinion that the circumstance of removal is not suffi.
cient to take the case out of the statute.
It is objected, that the plew of the statute of limitations is not good unless the Defendant answer also and
deny the debt, or aver it to be paid. But -if this be a
valid objection, it ought to have been takenft at the time
of offering the plea, and before the issue was joined. It
is now too late.
If it be a good objection in cases within the'generaf

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
.
X00NTZo

jurisdiction of a Court of equity, yet it is not valid in a
case like the present which is really a case at law as
between the present parties.
The Court is of opnion that the plea is a goo& bar,
and that the decree should be affirmed.

RIDDE v. MOSS.

1812.
March

6th.

Present.....ll1 the Judges.
The principal
obligor in a

bond is not a
competent
eites for the

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of

Columbia.

This was an action of debt on a joint bond given by

,surety,
inan John Welch as principal obligor and the Defendant
action upon
the bond; the . foss as his surety The suit abated as to Welch by the
principal be. return of the marshal, that he was no inhabitant of the
i
tgliable
to district. The Defendant, Moss, pleaded specially cer.
9
1,Csecal
the suret, for
cots incase tain facts in avoidante of the bond as t9 him alone, upthejydgment on which issue was joined, and upon the, trial the Deshould be
,mmst hun. fendant, AIoss, offered, as a witness, the said John Welch
the principal obligor who was permitted by the Court
below to testify for the Defendant, and upon his cross
examination cunfessed that he had made over to Moss
all his property as security to indemnify him against
the event of this suit.
The Plaintiff took a bill of exceptions, and the verdict and, jtIdgment being against him, brought his writ
of error to this Court.
E. I. LrE and JoxEs, for the Plaintiffin error
Welch was clearly an interested wgitness. By reliev-ing Moss from this suit, he would relieve his property
from the lien which Moss held upon it. If the Plaintiff recovered against Moss, the latter could immediately.
recoyer judgment against Welch for the whole debt, together with the costs of this suit. Laws of Tirg. Beu.
Code. 292.-5. T. R. 5789 Buckland v. Tankard.-Bul.
-YVP' 283-p. Bur 2727.-3. Atk. 42.-Day. 81.

