SUPREME COURT U. S.
HEnBZBRT

on, and shall apply to the Circuit Court to reform its

&OTRRts decree in this respect, the same ought to be done.
VD.

WREN
&OTHERS.

It is the.opinion of this Court that there is no error
in the decree of the Circuit Court for the county- of
Alexandria in determining that the Plaintiff, Susanna,
was entitled to dower in the estate of her late husband,
Lewis Hipkmns, deceased, but that there is error in not
requiring her to elect between her dower and the provision.iade for her in the will of her late husband, and
in not decreeing profits on the same. This Court doth
therefore reverse and annul the said decree, and doth

remand the cause to the said Circuit Court with instructions to reform the said decree according to the directions hereito contained.
JOHNSoN, J. dissented from the opinion of the Court,
but did not state Ins reasons.

1s13.
Feb.

THE CARGO OF THE BRIG AURORA, BURN
2XL
SIDE, CLAIMANT,
VO.

THE UNITED STATES.

Present....Jl1 the Judges execpt TODD, J.
Thle Legina.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the dis-

tureaaymake __ C
for t
the revival of tiCourt for the district df Orleans, condemning the
an act depend cargo of the brig Aurora, for having been imported from
,upon a future

eyent, and di- Grekt Britain, in violation of the -th and Sth sections
rect thatevent Of the non-intercourse act of Marchist, 1809, vol. 9, p.
to he
de 24.3, which it was contended were in force against

lamiaon. x" Great Britain, on the 20th
Whenan actofthis cargo was seized,) by
Congress isre-

of February, 18i,

when
virtue of the act of .May
vrvedby an Ist, i8i0, vol.1O p. 186, and the Presulent'sproclamation
sequent act, it of JVrvember 2d, :810.
isrevived precisely in that

form, and with By the 4th section of the act of March Ist, 1809. it is
that effect, enacted, " that from and after the 20th day of ,ay nextG
at thronet ," it shall not be lawful to import into the United States

FEBRUARY TERM I8iS.

S83

•
a or the territories thereof, any- goods, wares, or -mer. cAM
-clandze whatever, from any Port or place situated oF BRIG
-i. Great Britain or Ireland, or in any of thecolonies. AUROEt&
T..
a or dependencies of Great Britain, nor fi.om any port
S.,
sTAT
U.
polomes
her
of
any
in
or
France,
in
4
situated
"or place
"or dependencies, nor from any port or place in the
when it expir.
" actual possession of either Great Britain or France." ed.
Thc nqn-mter.

By the 5th section of the same act it is enacted, " that course act or
if whenever any article or articles, the, importation of'M b 1, 09,
"twhich is prohibited by this act, shall, after the 20th of te act of
is OJay, be imported' into the United States or the ter- a i, P 8ei-

cc ritories thereof. contrary to the true intent and mean- denes procN.

"Ing of this act'
tefeited.1

"

faied.

all such afticles" "shall be for- mationofNov.

1810,there9A
2d,
vived~n

of February,

1811.
a litbl, it Is
By the fih sectioi of the same act, it is provided, In
necessary
not
herehe
and
Statesbe,
United
the
"that the President of
"by is authorized, m case either France or Great Bri- to statb any
"ctan shall so revoke or modify her edicts, as that they fastite the
"shall cease *to violate the neutral commerce of the defence of the
Clamnant.
" Uited States, .to declare the same by proclamation ,
by
and
act
this
by
swspended
trade
the
which
"cafter
",the act laying an embargo" &c. "cmay be renewed
f with the nation so doing."

This act was to continue in force only to the end of the
then next session of' Congres,, but the 3d, %th, 5th, 6th,
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, i7th and 18th sections were,
by the a~t of June 286i, 1809, continihed to the end of
the next session.
Otr the oth of April, 1809, neconsequence of the arrangement with. Mr. Erskine. -the Presiqent issued his
proclamation declaring thAt Great Britaiji had so revoked her edictA, &c.whereby the law ceased to operate agAint her. 'Bit in consequence of the disavowal
.of Mr. ErskL..e's arrangement by the British. governmept, that proclamationrwas afterward9 revoked.
The aet of ist of March, :1809, expired with the session of Congress, on the 1st of May, 18i0, on whichday, C ongross passed an act, (vol. 10, p. 186,) the 4th
8ectMo46f which enacted; " that in case either Great
'Bifitin or Prance slall, before the third day of March

-SUPREME COURT V. S.
, CARGO

OF BuIRIG
AURORA

V.
visTATEs

so revoke or- modify her edictsg as that they
"slall cease to violate the neutral commerce of the Unit
-ed States, which fact the President of- the United
"States shall declare by proclamation, -ahd if the other
"nation shall not within three months thereafter so re16 yoke or modify her edicts in like manner, then the
6. third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, nmithtenthq
" and eighteenth sections of the act, entitled cAn act
"6to interdict the commercial intercourse between the
r. United States and Great Britain and France, and
"their dependencies, and for other purposes," shall,
" from and after the expiration of three months from
c" the- date of the proclamation aforesaid be revived, and
"c have full force and effect, so, far as relates to the do6milons, colonies, and-dependencies of the ntion thus
ce refasm or neglecting to revoke or modify her edicts
cin manner aforesaid. And the restrictions imposed
"eby this act, shall, from the date'of such proclamation
" cease and be discontinued in relation to the nation
" revoking or modify-ng her decrees in'manner afore66next,

On the 2d of November, 1810, the President 'issued
Ils proclamation, declaring that France had so revoked..
or modified her edicts, as that they ceased to violate the
neutral commerce of the United States.
By the act of A1arch 2d, 18i, vol. 10, P. 346, sec. 1,
it as enacted, "6that no vessel owned wholly by a citizen
"6orpcitizens of the United States, which shall have de66 parted, from a British port prior to the Zd day of Fe66 bruary, 1811, and no merchandize owned wholly by
"ea citizen or citizens of the United States, imported in
"lsuch vessel, shall be liable to seizure or forfeiture, on
," account of any infradtion, or presumed infraction of
",.-the provisions of the act to which this is a supple"i.nent," (the aet of'May Ist, 80.)
The 2d section provides that in case. Great Britain
should so revoke or modify her eticts, &c. the President
shall declare the same by proclamation.
The 3 a section enacts, that, until the proclamation
aforesaid "eshall have been issued, the several provi6tsjons of the 3d, ths, 5th, 6th, 7th. 8th, 9tho 10th and

FEBRUARY TERM i8i3

,ri8th sections of the act, entitled., "An act to interdict,"
,,"&c. (the act of March 1st, 1809;) ,,swlIW lvefull
"force, and be immediately carried into effect against
"cGreat Britain, her colonies- and dependencies."

CARGO.
OF BRIG
AuRoRA

UD.TATES.

The Aurora cleared out from Liverpool on the lith .
of December, 1810, sailed on thb 16th, and arrived at
New Orleans. between the 2d and the 20th of Februarv, 1811.

The President's proclamation of 2d of Nov;

1810, was, known in Liverpool on the 13th of Decem;
her.
JOSEPH R. INGERSOL,fI'

.ppeliant.

Here was no intent to violate the law. The vessel
cleared out before the proclamation was known in Liverpool, and a knowledge of that fact is not brought
home to' her. But if.it had beeni it was impossible for
her to know whether Great Britain would not, before
the 2d of February, revoke her obnoxious orders in
council, so that the law would never come into operation, even if the President could, by proclamation,
call it into existence. And the law, if it should take
effect, was not to go into operation until ,, the 20th of
May next." When was the 20th of May next? If the
law was revived by the proclamation, it could not be revived -until the 2d of February, 1811. It was to be
considered as being re-enacted on that day The 20th
of May next, therefore meant to the 20th of May, 18I1.
The words of the act of May ist, 1810, are, "cshall
"cfrom and after the expiration of three months from the
"date of the proclamation aforesaid, be revived, and
",have full force and effect." The provision that it
should begin to operate on the 20th of May next, was
as much a part of the law as any other of its provisions.
It was the intention of the legislature, that some warning should be given to the citizens of the United States,
so that they might by possibility avoid forfeiture under
it. But if that _provision 4e not adopted as well as the
others, it was impossible to avoid the penalties of the
law, for until the 2d of February, it would at all events
be lawful to import, and until after that day it would be
impossiblto know that Great Britain -had not revoked
her edicts, so that if the law was to take effect- on that
50
VOL. VII.

386

StPR AE COURT U. S.

day, it would be impossible for the most innocent and
most wary to escape punishment.
BRIG
OF
cARGo

AURORA.

10.
V.STATES.

This could not have been the intention of the Iegislature. Eftfct ought, if possible, to be given to the words,
after the 20th of fayj ext, and the most matured construction is that the legislature meant the 20th of May
next following the day, when the act should become absolute,, by the happening of the contingency on wheh
its existence was to depen(. A contrary -construction
would attribute to the legislature the most flagrant injustice ; that of punishing a man under a law of which
it was inpos4ible he should have had a knowledgb.
Whoever heard of a conditional penal law, the condition. of 'uhich was to be decided by the party, and
wich it was impossible for him to decide until after
the law became absolute ? The President was not authorized to decide it. Every man was to ascertain the
fact for himself.
liut Congress could not transfer the legislative power to the President. To make the revival of a law depend upon the President's proclamation, is to give to
that proclamation the force of a law. Congress meant
to reserve to themselves thepower of ascertaining when
ths condition should have been performed. Tls is to
be inferked from the act of Makch 2d, 1811,by whidh
it is enacted, that until Great Britain shall so revoke
her edicts, &c. and until that fact shall be proclanned
by the President, the enumerated sections of the act 61
March Ist, 1809, tnterdicting, 4-c. s6 shall have full force,
and be (i. e. shall be) immediately carried into effect."
These expressions strongly imply that those sections of
the act were not already in full force, and had n0t bpem
carried into effect.
'But the Ist section of the act of March 2d, i8il, protects from forfeiture 4IlAmqyican vessels and goods,
which sailed from Great Britain before the 2d of February. The information in this case does not deny that
the goods are bona fide American property, and the answer of Burnside calls the Aurora an 4merca Brigspeaks 6f the return voyage, and fts iimself to be
of Nev Orleas.o The bill of lading is alaO on account-

FEBRUARY' TERM -813.
and'risk of an .raerzcan citizen. It is therefore co be CARGO
inferred, that the property was American, and therefore oF aRin

not liable to forfeiture.
Joni' LAw, .contra.

AURORA
TV.

!U.STATES.

The proclamaion was known in Liverpoolthree days.
before the Aurora sailed, and must, be presumpd to
have been known by the master.

7Vi' 20tA of J'ay referred to in the act, was -the 20th.

of May, 1809, which had passed when the law of May
1sti 1810, was enacted, and when the act of March ist,
1809, expired.

The legislature meant to .revive the law as it existed on the day of its expiration. The words after iie
20th of .May next, were at that time of no effect, -and
,were as inoperative as if they llad been expunged from
the law.
The legislature did not transfer any power of legis-'
lation to the President. They onlyprescribed the vidence which should be. admitted of a fact, upon wflich
the law should go into effect.
The evidence is not summcent to show the cargo to be.
American property.

Feb. 26th...JormsoN, .T delivered the opinion of the
Court as follows
This is an appeal from a decision of the district Court,
of Orleans, on a libel.preferred against the goods in
question, under the non-intercourse acts of March 1st,
1809, and May Ist, 1810.
These goods were claimed by .Robert Burnside, a
citizen of Oleans, as his property, and the material
questions in the cause are,
Ist. Is the property American, in which case it is exempted from forfeiture, by a subsequent law, viz. of
March 2d1811.

$88

SUPREME COURT

V.S.

CARGO
2d. Was the act of ist March, 1809, revived by the
or ERIG President's proclamation at all, and if revived, did it
vu&oBA commence its operation on the 2d February, or on the
v.
20th May following, the time of issuing that proclaXT.STAT.S. mation.

On the quiestion of fact, the Court are of opinion, that
the evidence is not sufficient to prove the property American. The national character of the property the
Claimant might easily have established by his correspondence, and the examination of witnesses inEurope.
No such evidence is resorted to. The bill of lading
alone is resorted to, on which it is said to be shipped on
account of a citizen of the United States, and consigned to Burnside., but the name of the owner is not inserted. Here again the defect of evidence may have
been supplied by evidence who this citizen was, but no
such evidence is adduced.
In the examination of the two clerks of John Rason
& Co. of Liverplool, it is simply stated, that these goods
were shipped by John Richardson, of Liverpool, but on
whose account they do not state, nor does it appear that
they were examined to that point.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the absence
of proof which might so easily have been supplied, Will
authorize a conclusion, that the property was not American.
On the second point, we cansee no sufficient reason,
why the legislature should not exercise its discretion
in reviving the act of March Ist, 1809, either expressly
or conditionally, as their judgment should'direct. The
19th section of that act declaring that it should continue
in force to a certain time, and no longer, could not restrict their power of extending its operation, without
limitation upon the occurrence of any subsequent combination of events.
On the question when the operation of the Ith section of the act should commence, we are of opinion that
y rev iVng an act, the legislature must be understood
to give it, from the time of its revival, precisely t1at
force and effect which it had' at the moment when it ex-

-

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

389

pired. And that a suspended operation to the 20th CARGO
May, would be wholly inconsistent with the words oF BRIG
made use of in the 4th section of the adt of TMay, 1810, .'URORA
T,.
viz. "shall be revived and have full force and operaon
u.STATE.s
commenced
tion;" and therefore, that its operation
the 2d Feb. 1811.
Some objections have been made to the sufficiency of
the libel, because it does not negative the fact of Amenrican property. But on that subject, we are of opinion,
that in no case can it be necessary to state in a libel,
any fact which constitutes the defence of the Claimant,
or a ground of exception of the operation of the law on
which the libel is founded.

THE SCHOONER HOPPET AND CARGO

1813.

7T.

THE UNITED STATES.

PC-.

19th.

Absent....LIvINGSTON, .T.and TODD, T.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the: dis-,wines, the
of
trwt Court for the district of Orleans, (exercising the Produce
France, im-

jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States,)

ported into the

States
Uiiited
forethe
noncondemning the schooner Hoppet and her cargo as for- bb
feited to the United States under the act of congress inercour
of March i, 1809, vol. 9, p. 243, entitled cc An act to act, re-export"Interdict the commercial intarcourso between the Unt- 'dto a Darih
"c ted States and Great Britain and France and their sold to a metchant of that
",dependencres, and for other purposes."
phant oa
thence export.

"to ed to ew OrThe 4th section of that act makes it unlawfulthere
lans ori

"9Import into the United States or the territories

"of, from any foreign'port or place whatever, any of that act of
cgoods, wares or merchandize whatever, being of the ,n'e "w"
,growth, produce., or manufacture of France or of avy of tare under
"her colonies or dependencies," or of any country in that law.

tle possession of France.

tion in the
"adnnltj fdr

By the'Sth section it is enacted, "fthat wheneover any afuorfit.re
Sar"qleor aiticleq, the inportatioli of which is prohibi- substanial
" ted by this act;shall, after the 20th of May, be Import-statement f

