FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
could not have recovered the double value; and m -an ac- -sft~r.
,T.
tion therefor it-would have been necessary for tlhe United
States to prove that the vessel could. not have been s.eiz- BRIG
ed. This could not be proved while the vessel was ly- 3Etii;'
-ing in a port of the United States, liable to seizure.
thejudges bezng present,
MIarch 5th. .i1l
M.-A SAix, Ch. J. stated that it -as the opinion. of
the Court that the vessel was liable to !eizur.e, but
that a majority of the Court was of opinion that the
offence was not complete until the arrival of the vessel
in aforeign port, but the facts of the case-do not appear so as to enable the Court to decide that .pont,,
the cause, is therefore continued for furthet proof.,

THE UNITED STATES
sg

'V.

Feb.

JONAH CROSBY.

.q4th.

THIS case is fully stated in the following opinion ,f The titleto
lnd can be

this Court, which w~s delivered by

aequtred and
allelost offly

SToRY, Justice, on the 2th ,of Febriuary, all the me
presen
judges being present.

y

place where.
I I
sioruate.
.ch land, '
A writ of intrusion was brought by the UnitedStatesu
against the Defendant in error to recover posesslon of
an undivided part 6f certain land lyn&.withm -the district of Maine. Upon the trial of the cause in the district Court of that district, a special verdict was found
by the jury, upon which the same Court gave judgment
in favor of the Defendantin error. This judgment was
afterwards 'affrmed in the Circuit Court of Mlassachusetts, and is now before the Supreme Court for a final
decision.

By the special verdict it appears that the claiin of the
United States to the. land in controversy is under on#

SUPREME COURT U. S.

.116

V,,oA~
s Nathaniel Dowse, who derived his title, if any, from
v.
an instrument stated at large in the same
and
yxcPtsny. executed in his favor by one John Nelson. verdict,
The mstru=-- ment is wit1ut a seat and was executed at the Island of
Grenada, in the West Indies, before a notary public, according to'the mode prescribed, by the existing laws,
to pass real estate in that colony-and both-parties were,
at that~time residents therein.
By the laws of Massachusetts, no estate of freehold
in land can be conveyed unless by a deed or conveyance
under the hand aig seal of the party-mand to perfect the
title as against strangers, it is further requisite that the
deed should be acknowledged before a proper magistrate, and recorded in the -registry of deeds for the
county where the land lies.
The question presented for consideration, is whether
the lex loci contractus or the lex loci rez sitm is to govern
in the disposal of real estates.
'The Court entertain no doubt on the subject; and
are clearly of opinion that the title to land can be acquired and lost only in the manner prescribed by the
law of the place where such land is situate. The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be affirmed,

1M8i2.
Fcb.

THE SCHOONER-EXCHANGE

24th.

'o

M'FADDON & OTHERS,

.Present....,llthejudges

A oubli-

foreign soeregnat peace
ted State
comng
ntoand
our ports,

demeaning
herselfia a

THIS being a cause in which the sovereign right
caitmed by INAPOLEON, the regning
emperor of the
French, and the political relations between
the United
States and France, were involved, it
was, -upon the suggestion
l
efofr the Attorney General; ordered'to a hearing
in preference to other causes which stood before it on

the docket.

