2S
U.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

STATES United States carried the cause up to the Circuit Court

v.
by writ of error, where the judgment was affirmed by
GORDON & MARSHALL, C. J.
OTHERS.

The United States brought another writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the United States, which was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction, upon the authority
of the case of United States v. Goodian, of the last
term.

BARTON v. PETIT AND BAYARD.
Feb.

4th.

__

------__

JAbsent....Joaxsox, J. and TODD, J.
If the original
judgment be

ERROR to the Circuit

Court for the district of
Virginia on a judgment rendered
on a bond (techmcalreversed, the ly called in Virginia
a "forthcomig bond") ien to
dependenton the marshal
judgment
atth with
d condition to have certain goods forth-

jume "rth

coming at the day of sale appointed by the
marshal,

being goods which iehad
under a.fi. fa. issued
fol.los ot upon a-former judgment seized
recovered by Petit and Bavpc
erti- ard against Barton, which judgment was reversed t
rafi is necessa- the last term of this Court.
coming bond"

ry to bring up
•lie execution

upon which
P B. KEY, for the Plaintiff' in
contended, that
the bond 'asthe record of the former judgmenterror,
being referred to m
given so as to
show the con- the condition of the bond, was to be considered
as part
uexion be- of this record, and
that the Court could judiciallytake

tween the two
.iudgmeptn

notice that it was the same which was reversed by this
Court at the last term, the transcript of which record
now remains with the clerk of this Court But if the
Court could not judicially notice that fact, he moved
for a certiorari to the clerk below to certify the record
of the judgment on whicii the execution issued upon
which the bond was given.
E. L LER and I. R. INGERSOLL, contra, contended,
that the former record was no part of the present record, and that the Court could not judicially know it tohe the same, and cited I ien. and alwmu.
29. i Wash. 9g.

FEBRUKRY TERM

83.

Feln"uary iItk,.WsHnGTON, J. delivered'the oQpnton of the Court as follows

BAR ON

.
PETIT

This is a writ of ,error to a jadgmeit of the Cigcuit BAY&mw;
Court of Virguna, rendered upon a boxd given -by the
Plaintiffs iii error with condition for the delivery, at a
certai time and place, of property seized by the marshal to satisfy an execution which had issued from the
same Court. Th'e condition not having .been complied
with, thins judgment was rendered upon motion andnotice thereof duly served upon the obligors in the bond,
agreeably to the laws of Virginia.
It is not pretended that thre is any intrinsic error
in this judgment to'warrant its reversal, bujt it is contended that the reversal of the original judgment, upon
winch the proceedings in this record took place, requires necessarily the ieversat of this judgmenf. The
general doctrine is undeniably so, but the application
of'it to this caseis not admitted. That the judgment
in this record is dpendent upon some other judgment
xLapparent from the bond which recites a prior execution and seizure, by the marshal, of the property mentioned in the condition, for the purpose. of satisfying itX
but it does not appear, judicially to the Court that thd
recited execution issued upon the identical judgmuint
which has been reversed. The-only difficulty which the
Court has felt has been to devise some proper mode in
this, a" well as in all similar cases which may hereafter
arise, to connect with the origtnal reversed judgment
that which is asserted to be dpendent upon it.
A certiorariupon a suggestion of diminution would'
not answer the purposei as the proceedings in the original suit form no part of those in the subsequent suit:
the only foundation -of winch are, the bond and notice.
Neither does it appear. regular for tiis Court to receive
as evidence of the dependency of the latter upon the
former judgment, the certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court.
The Court has thought it best to direct a special
writ to be framed applicable to cases of this nature, to
be directed to the clerk of the Court in wihich the judginents were rendered, to certify under the seal. of the
38
VOL. Vif.

SUPREM E COURTU. S.
Court, the executibn recited in the bond on which the
second judgment was rendered. 'This difficulty can
mP&,
Ta W& never occur except incases where all the proceedings
nYAmi.
in the original judgment, except the execution, are al-.-before this Court. The execution, therefore.
though no part of either the original or deptndent record, being certified by the proposed writ, will supply
the only link necessary to prove the connexion between
the two judgments.
3xiToN
A.

'---eady

." 14 this case, ther Court from the novelty of the practice necessary to be adopted, will not permit the Plaintiff in error to suffer in consequence of his not having
applied sooner for a writ of certiorari, but will now direct the same to issue. In future the party must take
the consequences of his neglect, if lie should fail to have
the execution, certified in time.
Jtarch 16th.... WAs HNGTo, J. The Court has examined the execution which has been sent up by certioran, and is satisfied that the judgment on which it issued is that which was reversed at the last term. The
.judgment, therefore, on the forthcommg bond must be
reversed also.
Judgmeut reversed.

ISIS.
Feb.

5th.

MIMA QUEEN AND CHILD,
PETITIONERS FOR FREEDOM,
T.

HEPBURN.

Fresent.a..llthe AJdges except
fie.sa o.,.

denc) Is ntompetent to
eatabAlh
any
epecifo fact,

TODD, J.

E.ROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Colhmbia, sitting at Washington.
At the trial severaL bills of' exception. were taken.

