FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

279

iecution will be of no avail, but the Court will not a W
ficipate the merits upon such a motion.

WAIaMEv

v'"
WIL.IAMS

MAusALL, Ch. . The writ of error is to the original decree, which did not aw#Ard this writ. of habere
facids. It was awarded by a subsequent order of tli6
Court, to which no writ of error issued.

J. The attachment to compel -a performance
of the decree was' unavailing, and upon the return of
it, the habere faezas was issued in conformity with the
practice in that state, as admitted by the counsel on
both sides in the Court below. It was ordered as a matt~r of course, and no objection was made. If this motion should prevail, it will make the writ of error operate as a sutpersedeas, contrary to the intention of the
act of Congress.
TODD,

..otion overruled.

MKIM v. VOORHIES,
March

15th

Preseut.....llthe Judges.
THUIS was P case certified from the Circuit Court for
StateCourt
the district of Kentucky,. in which the opinions of the Abas no urdiction to enJudges were opposed.
joina judgei of the
AV the July adjourned term of the Court below ,ment
ircuit Court
Ceo~
adjourned
the year 1808, Jfl,'Kim, a citizen of Maryland, recover- of the U. s,
ed a judgment in ejectment a5ainst 77oorlues, a citizel ot
Kentucky, forthe undivided third part of a water mill,
with its appurtenances, in the county of Franklin, m
the state of Kentucky At the same time Voorhies filed his bill in Chancery in the Court below against
.MWKim, and John Instone, a eitizeu of Kfentuckq, and
Hlayden Edwards, a citizen of South Carolina, claiming an equitable lien on the said third part of the mill,
&c. on account of contradts, &c. between Bennett Penberton (under whom Voorlues held the premises) and
Haydei Edwards an4 John Instone , Pemberton haying

SUPREME COURT U. S.

W'xira. sold the said third part of the mill, &c. to Edwards,

v.
who sold to Instone, who sold and conveyed to MKim.
voonxiE.. Instone was the only Defendant served with process
from the Court below.

M'Kini

and Instone answered

the bill, and brought on a motion to dissolve the injunction Qn the merits, which was overruled by the
Court below. At the term next.preceding November
term, 18io, (Edwards not having answered) the Court
below dismissed the suit as to him, and as to Instone,
for want of jurisdiction , after which Voorhies had leave
to discontinue as to J.,'Iin on payment of costs. The
suit was accordingly discontinued. Previous to this
disposition of the cause, Voorhies filed is bill in Chancery against the same parties in the State Circuit Coupt
for the county of Franklin, in the state of Kentucky,
in wich lieset up the same equity as lie charged in his
bill in the Court below. On this bill he, by an order
feom one of the Circuit Judges of the State, obtained
an injunction, staying all further proceedings on the
said judgment in ejectment, until tile matters of the said
bill were heard in equity. This injunction was dissolved at- the July term of the FrankliAi Circuit Court,,
shortly after wnch the said injunction was reinstated by
the order of the honorable Caleb Wallace, one of the
.judges of the Court oTfAppeals of the state of Kentucky,
issued under the act of the general assembly of that
state , passed at their December session in the year
t807

'rie injunction issued in the cause by the State
Court, and the order reinstating that injunctio,% were
duly notified to the clerk of the 4Pourt below, and official copies of each lodged in his office. On the third
day of the session of the Court below, at its Novem.
her term, I8xo, MIKim, by his attorney, applied to
the clerk of the Court-below for a writ of haberefaclas
possesstonem on the said judgment in ejectment, but the
clerk refused to issue the writ m consequence of the in.lunction and orders afores-aid, whereupon M'Kim, by
his counsel, moved the Court below to instruct and order their clerk to issue a writ of haberefacuispossesnein, on the judgment of that Court, the injunction and
orders aforesamd notwithstanding. Upon this motion of
ti .plaintiff the opinions of the Judges were opposed.
The case was submitted by HARPER for the Plmnti,

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
without argument.
Defendant.

There was no appearance for the

m.'KL'

Iv.
VOOIIHIES.

.March i1t .... Jll the Judges being present,
TODD, J.stated the opinion of the Court to be, that
the State Court had no jurisdiction to enjoin a judgment of the Circuit Court pf the United States, and
that. the Court below should be ordered to issue the
writ of aberefacs.

BEATTY v. THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
E!_

1812.
March

1sth

Preent....qll the Judges.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district OfAfinalaccount

Columbia, sitting in Washington.

settled by an
admlnistratoL.

wtli the Or-

This wa$ an action of debt brought at the instance phan's Court,

is not
concluand for the use of Thomas Corcoran
evidence
• against Thomas sive
Beatty upon the administration bond of Mrs. Doyle, I hsfavorup

administratrix, with the will annexed, of Alexander

is
&- Le

Doyle. 'The Defendant was one of her iritieg in that v~tavit vlin
bond. The Defendant after oye pleaded a special
performance of every item in the condition of.the bond;
To which the Plaintiff replied a judgment de ionis testatons obtained by him, in May, 1799, against the admnnistratrix, fieri facias upon that judgment and return of
nulla bona. The replication also avers that the' adaumstratrixhadinherhands, atthe time ofthe indi mentggaodi
of her testator sufficient to satisfy the deitibut ti it sue
-wastei!them. The Defendant took igsa upnii the de,vastavit.
Upon the trial of this issue, the Defewlant below took
a bill of excepsions which stated-that the Plaintiff offered in evidence the record of the judgment in May
1799, against the admimstratrix for 357 dollars, and
the fieri facias returned nulla boa. And also the 7n-entory which she had .exhibited to the orphans Court of
Montgomery county, in Maryland, in ,anuary, 1795.
VOL. VII,
37

