FEBWU4RY TERM, 18B.
LOCKE v. TIE UNI

D STATES,

1813.
Feb.

.Asent...ToDD,

1.6th.

.

•ERROR to the sentence of the Circuit Court for the In a count ina
district of Maryland, which condemned the cargo of libel upon the
the schooner Wendell, belonging -to Locke, the Clalobneotio lai
2d,
o, fororch
mant, as forfeited to'the United States.
'1799,
umThe libel contained l counts.

lading gwX's
without ape:
mit it is not
necessary to
itate the time

The 1st count charged that the goods betwee, the
luace or
Ist of June, 1808, and the day of filing the libel at Bos-Ind
importation,
ton, with intent to transport them to Baltimore, with- nor the vessel
out a permit from the collector and naval officer of the in whiic. it
port of Boston, wero clandestinely laden on board the iasmade iciut
schooner Wendell, a Vessel enrolled and licensed ac- to
untheyallege
wvere that
cording to statute, whose employment was not then con- to,,e to the
fined to the navigation of bays, sounds, ivers and lakes attorney:

within the jurisdiction oif the United States, nor ca"Proae
eniptea from the obligaition of giving bond according to les th
-ci
dence w-hih
the nrovisions of tie statute (the embargo law.)
%vould"justify
condemnation.

The 2d count charged that the goods being of folrelgll It imports a
made
growth and manufacture and subject to the payment ofseizure
under eircumduties, between the Ist of May, 1808, and the day Of stances whih
filing the 'lbel wore unladed Without the authority of the -arrant $usproper officers of the customs, from on board some ves, picion.
sel to the attorney unknown, after sli had arrived witlrin four leagues of the coast of the United States, the
said vessel being then bound from some foreign port or
place, (to'the -attorney unknown,) to the United States.
The 3d count charged that the goods being of foreign
growth and manufacture and subject to duties, were,
without any unavoidable accident, necessity or distress
of weather, unladen without the authority of the proper
officers of the customs.
The 4th count charged that the goods, being of foreign growth and manufacture, and subject -to the payment of duties imposed by the laws of the United States,

SUPREME COURT IU.S.
%Mj= between the 1st of May, 1804, and the day of filing the
1.
libel, were imported from some foreign port or place to
u.STATEs.

the attorney unknown, into some port of the United

States to the said attorney unknown, in a certain vessel to the said attorney unknown, and were afterwards
and before filing the libel unladed at the said last mentioned lbort from the said vessel without a permit from
the proper officers of the customs of the last mentioned

port.

The Sth count charged that the goodswere imported into Boston and were falsely,.and by a false name and denomination entered-at tlhe custom house of the port of
Boston.
The 6th count charged that they were imported into
a port of the United States, to the attorney unknown,
and- were falsely, and by a false name and denomination, entered at the custom house of such port.
The 7th count stated that the goods were of thu manufacture of Great Britain, and were imported into New
York, between the first of March, 1808, and the day of
iling the libel, ff.,m some foreign port or place to the
attorney unknown.
The 8th count stated that they were so imported
into Boston.
Te 9th count stated tlem to have been so imported
into Philadelphia.
The 10th count averred them to have been so im'ported into Baltimore.
The 1 th count stated them to have been so imported
into some port of the United States, to the attorney unknown.
The ist count was under the embargo law.
The 24, 3d, 4th, 5th and 6th counts were under the
collection law.

The other counts were under the non-inportation acts

FEBRUARY TERM 181M.
of 18th A~pril, 1806, Vol. 8, p. 80..-and 19th Dec. 1806,

rol. 8, p. 219.

LoOK39

-V.
U.STATET.

IApER, for the Appellant.
The first count, under the embargo act is understood
to be abandoned.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 1ith counts, are under the
non-importation acts of 18th April, and 19th December,
A806. There is no evidence of. the' importation of the
goods since the 2d Monday in December, 1807, the
time when those laws began to operate.
The 2d, 3d, 4thj 5th and 6th counts are under the geueral collection law of 2d. larch, 1799, Vol,4, j. 325, cko
The 5th mid 6th however, charge acts not forbidden by
the law-so that the charges are reduced to those contained in the 2d, 3d and bth counts.
The 2d and 3d counts are under the 27th sec. of the collection law, Vol. ,, p. 321. These counts are defective
in not averrmng that the unlading was before the vessel
had " come to the proper place for the discharge of her
cargo," which is an essential ingredient in the offence
described in that section. And all the counts are defective in not stating where, how, when, and from. what
ship the goods were unladen. These defects are as fatal in a libel as in an indictment or declaration. There
is no authority for making a distinction. But-if some
latitude be allowed in a libel, yet it ought to be certain
to a common intent in these respects.
If the libel be sufficient, yet'it is not supported by
proof. There is no evidence of the time when the
goods were landed so as to show it to be contrary to
law.
But it was said in the Court below, that the onus
probandi was on the Clauna'nt by the express proviAon
of the statute, Laws United States, Vol. 4,IP. 391, sec. 71,
the words of which are "If the property be claimed by
66 any person, in every such case the onus probandishall
"ebe upon such Claimant, but the onus probaudi shall
Itlie on the Claimant only where probabk cwaze is shewn

SUPREME COURT U. S.

-

oxk for such prosecution." Probable cause is prima fa10.
cie evidence, and wheneveg that is shown, the onus prow
.STATiS. bandi falls of course upon the other party
A contrary
---construction would be against the common principles of
law. -What you charge, you must prove. Innocence
is always to be presumed until there be at least prima
facie evidence of guilt. This construction is fortified
by the 43d section of th6 collection law. Vol. 4, p. &50.
Which provides that if distilled spirits, wines and teas be
found unaccompanied by a certificate of importation,
it shall be presmptive evidence that the same are liable
to forfeiture. This presumptive evidence can be no
othei,' tMan probable cause of seizure: and probable cause

must mean presumptive evidence. In the present case

there is no such probable cause. The circumstances
which are supposed to excite suspicion, are I. That
there was a variance in the manifest-?.. That the
names of the shppqrs and consignees were fictitiousS.That there'was no proof of their entry into Boston,
and 4th that the original mark.9 had been effaced upon
many of the packages.
It is not stated where this'manifest was found. The
variance is very trifling. There could have been no
fraud upon the United States, intended by using fictitious names, because the goods were as liable to seizure
as if they had been shipped in the name of the'Claimant.
It-was done to screen the goods from his creditors, he
being in embarrassed circumstances at that time-as
appears from the deposition of W French. The want
of a certificate of entry is only evidence that they might
have been improperly imjprted, not that they were.
The erasure of the original marks could not screen tim
goods from seizure-part of the original marks renained, None of these circumstances constitutes that prima
facie evidence which throws the. burthen of proof upon
dhe Claimant. But this provision respecting the onus
Jroba dld,applies only to the importer himself-and as
to hn it is not unreasonable-he knows where to look
for the evidence of their correct importation. But it is
unreasonable to apply the rule to a purchaser. It would
in many cases be impossible for him to obtain the necessary evidence. There is no evidence that the Claimant was the importer of these goods,

FEBRUARY TERI i81.
PI±NrwNy, contra.

LOCKE

:.
There is some ground to say that these goods ought U.STATES.
to be-condemned under the non-importation act of 1806.
It is clearly proved that they are of British manufacture;"
they must therefore have been imported-and some of
the articles appeared to be of a very recent fabric.
These circumstiances connected with the total want of
proof on the part of the Claimant, create -very strong
suspicions, if tey-do-not-amount to positive proof.
But under the collection law, especially upon the Ith
rount, which is founded on the 50th section of that act,
the case is quite clear.
It is not necessary in a libel for unlading contrary'
to law to state from whatvessel, no- at what time, nor in
,what place, the goods were unladen. It would generally be impossible to prove the circumstances, and if
averred, they must be proved. Suppose'that the C1atmant had confessed that the goods were smuggled, but
had mot said in what vessel, nor when, nor where-the
evidence of his confbssion would have been sufficient t
condemn the goods although he had omitted to. state
these immaterial circumstances. It is sufficient to aver
that they .were landed from some vessel, and at some
place within the United States, unknown to the prosecutor, and withini the time when the law was in force.
The Clannant has sufficent notice that the United States
mean to rely on the general ground of suspicion, and
on the shifting the ornus probandi, and must come prepared to remove the suspicion. Of what'nse is the'provison respecting the onus probavdi, if the law was so before? It is perfectly nugatory if probablr cause means
prtnaf iz evidence. It must mean something less than
evidence-it means reasonable grounds of suspicion.
Another objection as -to form is, that the libel dbcs
iaot aver negatively that the vessel had not arrived at
her port-of delivery. It is not necessary to, show this
even by intendment-but it does necessarily appear,
from the facts stated in the count. It is sufficient to
set forth the great leading facts of the case, and to aver
them to be done contrary to the statute. By referring
to the statute lie is informed as to the particulars alleged
against him.

SUPREmt COURT U. S.
4-100=

The variance in the manifest is immaterial, but the

V.
use of fictitious names for shippers and .cousignees is a
.u swATcus. circumstance of strong suspicion.
It was probably
done to blind the eyes of the custom house officers, by
dividing the ownership into 13 or m4parts.
ghiiPER, zn reply.

If the U. States are permitted to state the time.and
place so vaguely, yet they ought to state all the circumstances which constitute the offence. It must be stated
that the fact was committed within some district of the
U. S. The offence is unlading before she came to her
port of delivery Whatever is necessary to be averre(b must be positively averred, it cannot be nade
out by infereice or intendment. It is-not sufficient to
state that, it was done contrary to the statute. It must
be shown how it was done, that the Court may judge
whether the act, was unlawful or not.
Feb. 19th....MAusHA1L, Ch. 3. delivered the opinion
of the Court as follows.
This is. a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit
Court for the district of Maryland, affirmingajudgment
of the district Court, whicli condemned the cargo of the
Wendell, as being forfeited to the United States.
The first point made by the Plaintiff in error, is that
the information filed in the cause; is totally insuffcient
to sustain ajudgment of condemnation.
The information consists of several counts, to all of
which exceptions are taken. The Court however, is of
opinion, that the.%th count is good, and this renders it
unnecessary to decide on the other,
That count is founded on the 50th section of the collection law, and alleges every fact material to the offence.
It is however objected to this count, that the time and
place of importation, and thw, vessel in which it was
made, are not alleged in the information, but are stated
to be unknown to the attoyney

FEBRUARY TERM i81.
rThese circumstances are not essential to the offence,
nor cab they,'from the nature of the case, be presumed
to be known to the prosecuting officer.
The offence is charged in such a manner as to come
fully within the law, and is alleged to have been committed after the passage of the act, and before the exhibition of the information. This allegation, in such a casei
is all that can be required.
The 4th count of the information being sufficient m
law, the Court will proceed to examine. the testimony
adduced to support it.
It is proved incontestibly that the goods are of foreign manufacture and consequently have been imported into the United States.
The circumstances, on which the suspicion is founded that they have been landed without sLpermit, are,
lst. That the whole cargo in fact, belongs to the claimant, and yet was shipped from Boston in the names
of thirteen different persons, no one of whom had any
interest in it, or was consulted respecting it, and several of whom have no real existence.
2d. That no evidence exists of a legal importation into Boston, the port from which they were shipped, to
Baltimore, where they were seized;
3d. That the original marks are removed, and others
substituted in their place.
The counsel for the claimant has reviewed these cir.
cumstances separately, and has contended that.no one
of them furnishes that solid ground of suspicion which
can create a presumption of guilt and put his client on
the proof of his innocence. That they are either indifferent m themselves-mere casualties-or are reason&bly accounted for.
To the employment of fictitious names as sbippprs, he
says, that if the circumstance be not totally immaterial,
it is sufficiently accounted for by the deposition of 'Wil
45
VO. VIo

jotIKg
W.
U.STATE

,.

SUPIEME COURT U. &
liam Frenchb who says, "6he understood that the idat.
imant in the cause9 wasim embarrassed circumstances
ummv.'rs. some time before the shipment of these goods, and that
he has understood and believes from general report that,
for the purpose of preventing his property from being
attached, he was in the habit of shipping his property
in the names of other persons."
laCKE
V.

The Court is of opinion that the circumstance is far
from being immaterial. It is certainly unusual for a
merchant to cover his transactions with a veil of mystery, and to trade under fictitious names. The maiiner
in which this mysterious conduct is accounted for, is not
It does not appear that his creditors
satisfactory
were in Baltimore,-or would be more disposed to attach
hs property in that plate tjian in Boston, and it does
not appear that in Boston the names of others were borrowed to protect his property from his creditors. The
fact itsdlf, if true, might be proved bX other and better
testimony. This habit might have~been proved by hIs"
clerks.
An attempt is made to account for the circumstance
that the goods were not regularly entered at the custom house of Boston, by the testimony of the same William French, who deposeg that goods to a large amount
are transported by land to Boston, and if intended for
domestic consumption, are generally unaccompanied by
certificates of haviogpaid the duties. The inference is
therefore considered as a fair one, that these goods may
hive paid the duties at some other port where they were
purhased by Mr. Locke, and transported by land to
Boston.
The Court is not satisfied with this inference. Goods
in packages, unaccompanied by certificates of having
paid the duties, are always liable to be questioned on
that account. Large purchasers therefore, even where
re-exportation is not intended, would choose to be furrushed with this protection. It is a precaution which
costs nothing, and which a prudent merchant will use.
'he presumption therefore, is always against the. person who is in possession of goods in the original packages ithout these documents. This presumption ou.5ht
to be removed,, and miy be removed, not by provni

FEBRUARY TERM 1913.
xV.xr
triat cae have existed where a purchaser of goods
7,
-that have been regularly entered, has omitted to furnish
himself with certificates, but that the particular case u.STATES.
may reasonably bp supposed to be of that description;
The actual impQrtation, or the actual purchase of' the
very goods, or of goods of the same description, may be
proved, and .ought to be proved by a person who. has
been so negligent as not to obtain certificates that
would exempt them from forfeiture.
The alteration of,the original marks has been treated
as an immaterial circumgtance because no criminal motive can he assigned for it. This alteration, it is said,
was not ,lculated to impress the reNenue officers with
the opinion that the duties had been paid, and is thfrefore not to be considered as Made with that motive.
Certainly the alteration was not made without a motive. Men do not usually employ so much labor for
nothing. If they use mystery withoqt an object, they
expect to excite suspicion.
must
I
To do away that suspicion they ouqght to shew ail

object.
In the present case, it is not improbable, that the
motive was to relieve the goods from the suspicion of
being imported in violation of the then existing prohibitory laws. One witness, who deposes that the goods
were of British manufacture, also deposes that he never saw goods imported from Great Britain with such
marks as those which- were found on the goods of Mr.
Locke. In the absence of other motives, the mind una,
voidably suggests.this.
If .these circumstances were even light, taken separately, they derive considerable weight from being united in the same case. If these goods have really paid a
duty, it is peculiarly unfortunate that they should have
*been shipped without certificates of that fact, under fictitious names, friom a port where they were not entered, and that the marks of the packages should have
been changed. It is peculiarly unfortunate, that these
circumstances* cannot be explained away -by showing
that the goods have been entered elsewhere, or even

SUPREiE COURT U. S.
xocxz
V.

that the claimant has purchased such goods from any
person whatever.

U.BTATES.

These combined circumstances furnish, in the opinion
of the Court, just cause to suspect that the goods,
wares, and merchandize against which the information
in this case was filed, have incurred the penalties of
the law.
But the counsel for the clannant contends that this
is not enough to justify the Court in requiring exculpatory evidence from his client. Guilt he says must be
proved before the presumption of innocence can be removed.
The Court doe-q not so understand the act of Congress. The words of the 71st section of the collection
law, which apply to the case, are these ",And in ac" tions, suits, or informations to be'brought, where any
;'seizure shall be made pursuant to this act, ifthe pro"perty be claimed by any person. in every such case
"'theoius probandishall beu pon stch claimant." " Butthe
,;
onus probandishall be on the claimant, orily where pro" bable cause is shown for such prosecution, to be judged
"6of by the Court before whom the prosecution is had."
It is contended, that probable cause means prmafacie evidence9 or, ii other words, such evidence as, in the
absence of exculpatory proof, would justiry condemnation.
This argument has been very satisfactorily answered
on the part of the United States by the observation,
that this would render the provision totally inoperative.
It may be added, that the term "eprobable cause," according to its usual acceptation, means less than evidence.which would justify condemnation, and, in all
cases of seizure, has a fixed and well known meaning.
It imports a seizure made under circumstances which
warrant suspicion. In this, its legal sense, the Court
must understand the term to have been used by Congress.
The Court is of opinion that there is no error s an&,
that the judgment be aflirmed with costs,

