FEBRUARY TEIRM IiS.

,71

postlunious children. and cases where a descent to an EARNITZ,

heir had been defeated by the subsequent birth of a
nearer hen'. The argument of the Defendants; on this
point, ought not, therefore to prevail. No question
has been made as to the land specifiedly devised to John
. Hainniond in fee with a limitation over to his fatlier
in fee. As that. limitation over was a good executory
devise, and, in the events which happened, took effect,
it is very clear that the lessors of the Plaintiff cannot
chuim title thereto. This is indeed conceded on all sides.

LEssEE

T;
CASESY.

Tie result of thus opinion according..y is, that the
lessors of the Plaintiff are entitled, as heirs of John
M,Connel!, at the happening of the contingency, on the
death of' John B. Hammond, under age, and without
issue, to one moiety of the Church-hill lands, and th
residuary estates as tenants in common with the heirs
of John B. Hammond, but they are not entitled to any
portion of the lands of which John MiConnell had an
absolute vested fee at the time of his decease.
As, however, a tenant in common cannot in general
maintain an action of ejectment a.aumst his co-tenant;
there are no facts found in this. case to prove an
and
actual ouster and to take it out of the general ruile, the
consequence is that the-.judgment, in the opinion of a
majority of the Court. must be affirmed with costs.

BLACKWEILL -r. PATTON c ' ERWIN's r-F.

;ME.

Isis.

March

.lbsent

WAStiYNGTO,

6th

J. and ToDD, T.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Ten- By the laws of
N. Carolina
nessee, i an action of ejectiltit brouight by tile lessee and
Tennessee
of Patton and Erwin, against Blackwell, for 5,000 acres adeedforland
Tenneswee,
of land, in Bedford county, in the state of Tennessee. in
in
executed
At the trial tile Defendant took three bills of exceptions.

N. Carolina,
by grantors
iesiding ther
in the year

The first stated, that the Plantiff produced II cM- 1794, proved (
deuce, at the trial, a deed of bargain and sale _1797 byon
from 1. G. and Thimuss Blmnt. to wihom it was al- of the snb-

472

SUPREME COURT U. S.

leged the land had been granted by the state of North
Carolina, while it was a part of that state. The deed
v.
from I. G. and T. Blount, was executed on the 9Lh of
PATTOT & Ortober, 1794, to David Allison. On the 2-9th of
SepERwIN's tember, 1797, it was proved by one of the.subscribing
T.ESSE.E. witnesses befbre John Heywood, a judge of the
Supreme Court of law and equity, for the state of North
scribing wit- Carolina, and registered in Stoke's county
SLACK-

WELL

nesses before
a judge in N.
Carolina, and
recorded in
1808, in the
proper county
iin-eeeea

On the 9th of December, 1807, the hand writing of
the subscribing witnesses, who were
dead, and of the
grantors. was-proved before Samuel Powell, one of the
judgts of the Supreme Court of hl.w and equity of the
may be given state of Tennesse, who orde-red it to be registered.
At
in evidence in November
ejeetmenrt
the Supreme
b. term,
er 1808, in (i
the Court
la--- of Trni'sejetment nessee, for Mere district,
(i which the land lies.) the
the date ofthe hand writing of the grantors, and
demise in the x itnesses, was again proved, ard onof the subscribing
the 28th oi Dedeclaration
miybeamend.
cember,
1808, the deed was recorded in the propf-p
ce!
dmngte
o n
.I...
i the county. On the trial. (,
h was inJune t'rm. 1810)
conform to the Plaintiff offered pariol hievidence
to prove th, hand
the title,
writing of the suoscribing witness-s and their death
Thefirst grant before the month of December, 1807,
and also to prove
frili the staste
of .N.
Carolina the liand writig of the grantors.
upon an entryq,
is
valhlf, :d1-

To the admission of
evidence the Defendant beUpon a dipli- low objected, but the this
Court over-ruled, the objection,
wat
rr'ant, and admitted the deed in evidence.
the oriinal bethough isued

ing in the

hands of tie

surveyor ge-

The 2d bill ofexceptions stated that the Plainfiffalso of-

nerel, alfered in evidence a deed t.)
his h'ssors, bearing dt
date after
though
the
demiselaidin
the
declaration,
t-;the admission of which
sequent a subgr
ssue uporhiittdeed tie Defendant objected,

but ils. Court admitted it to
was niideclaration,
winch lie did, before the jury retired
from the bar, by
altermg the date of the denise.

original war- be read in evidence, saying the date of
the demise
rMiit for otler material, or the Plaintiff' might am.nd
his

The 3d bill of exceptions stated, that the Defendant
offe.,ed evidence to prove, that the original grant or patent from the state of North Carolina to I. G. and Thomas Blount, was issued upon a duplicate warrant,
while the original warrant was in the hands of the surveyorgeneral, and that I. G. and Thomas Blount afterwards obtained another grant or patent ftvir the state

FEBRUARY TERM 181&"
ofNorth Carolina for other lands upon the original warrani. To the admission of this evidence, the Plaitiff
objected and the Court rejected it.

LBAskWELL

T.
rATTON &

MsiTiTa, for the rPaintffi error

1. The ded from ,. G. and T. Blount to Allison, was
but proved anu registered according to the laws of
Nofth Carolina, or of Tennessee, so as to.be valid.
The law of North Carolina, 715, ch. 30. § 5. p. 1 8.
requres every deed to lie acknowledged, or proved, in
open Court, or before the chief justice, and registered,
within 12 months after its date, in the county where
the land lies. This deed bears date the 9th of October;
1791, %as never acknowledged nor properly ,Proved
and was not, registered till the 28th of December,
1808.
By the law of Eikgland, a deed of bargnain and -sale
is inoperativ-, until enrolled; in the same manner as a
deed of feoffinent does not operate until livery of seizen. A: deed by a joit-tnant--a deed for the reversion and payment -f renit to the bargainor are good before enrolment. The bargain e is not seixed before enrolment, and if lie die before enrolment, Ins wife is not
entitled to dower, a!th ouh when enrolled it relates
back to its (late. 1 Ba. Abr 173. 2 BI. Com. 311. 3
Wood's Conveyamwer, 32 to 31.
02 The Court oughut not ta have permitted the deed
to the lessors of the Plaintiff, dated after the demise, to
be given in evidence on that declaration, nor to have
suffered the Plaintiff to amend his declaration after the
jury was sworn. 2 Stir 1086, Beddington o. Parkhursto
RannuZrngon, 87 But. ON0 1 105, Basset -v. Basset.
Courts have gone no further in permitting amendmeniLs in ejeetniet, at the trial, than to enlarge the term
which had expired, or to correct grammat,:al errors.
A.though the declaration is a fiction inDorm, yet what
isof substance must be truly set forth.
3. The act of North Carolina, (1783, ch. 2, p. 3-2.
9, 10 and t) which prohibits the suiang of a grant

VOL. VI.

61

IRWVIN'S
LESSEEo

SJPREME COURT U. S.

b74
uL.scA-

wELL
v.

upon a duplicate warrant, was in force when this warrant was issued. It was a fraud upon the state, for only
one warrant was paid for, and yet it was made to ope& rate as two.

PATTON
ERWIN S
LESSEE.

C.IMPBEM,

contra.

1st. There were other laws of North Carolina, and
of Tennessee, extending from time to time the term for
registering deeds, so that any deed, even of 50 years
standing, may now be registered.
The probate of the deed, before Judge Haywood, on
the 29th of September, 1797, brings the deed within
the act of Tennessee, 1809, Nov. 23, ch. 100, § k, p.
129, by which it is enacted, "c That all deeds, or mesno
- conveyances, for land within this state, which shall
, have been made and executed out of the limits of this
"state, and shall have been proven by one or more of
the subscribing witnesses 'thereto, or acknowledged
"by the grantor or grantors, before any judge of any
, Court in another state, or before the mayor of any
city or corporation in another state, and shall have
" been registered in this state mn the county where the
" land or any part thereof lies, within the time required
by law for registering the same, such probate and re,gistration shall be good and sufficient to entitle the
same to be read in evidence in any Court within this
,state."
But the probate and the admission to registration is
conclusive on this point.
To show that the"term for registering deeds had been
kept open until the present time, lie cited the following
p.
laws Iredell's rein-sal of the laws of Xorth Carolina,
3
83, 174,, c. 1, § 2, 3 -p. 173, 1756, c. 6, § 2, -p.
196, 1760, c. 6, § 2--p. 213, 1761-p. 2024, 1766-p.
2416,

1

770-p. 269, 1773-p. 289, 1777-p. 424,1782-

p.,,i87, 178--p. 590, 17S6-p. 640-1 Sess. a. a. p.
665, 668. Laws of Tenvessee, 179-1, c. 22, § 3. td.
1796, 1797 1801, C. 20, § 1-1803, c. 57-J1805, C. 16,
1-807, c. 85, § 1, 2-1809, C.100, § I,.
Vd.-MAP-sTALL,

C,. T.T.

Pass over the 2d point.

FEBRUAR

TERIM i813.

CA3PBBLL. 3d. This was the first grant which
'issued BLAcKc
upon this entry It was good wheV it issued, and cannot wE.L
be invalidated by a subsequeut grant on tile same warV.
rant. Both cannot be void. If either, it must be tie last. PATTO &

M1arch ih....MARsnALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion
of tile Court as follows
The writ of error in this case is brought to reverse a
judgment obtained by the Defendants in err:r aganistthe
Plaintiffs iii an ejectment brought in tie Circuit Court
of West Tennessee. At the trial, the Plaintiffs in that
Coart offered in evidence in order to make out their
tithc, a deed hearing date the 9th of October, 179-1, from
3. G. Blount and Thomas Blount, of NorLh Carolina,
to David Allison, of Philadelphia, which deed was recorded in the county in which the lands lie on the -8th
day of December, i80S. The Defendants obp:cted to
the admission of this deed, and excepted to the opinion
of the Coturt over-ruling the objection.
The original law reqmuring the enregistering of deeds,
passed in North Carolina, (then comprehending what is
now the state of Tennessee,) in tie yea' 1715. This
act requires that the deed shall be acknowledged by the.
vendor, or proved by one or more evidences upon oath,
either before the chief justice for the time being, or in
tie Court of the precinct where the land li s, and regis..
tered by the public register of the prccinct where the
land lies within twelve months after the date thereof.
it was afterwards enacted, that the deed might be registered by the clerk of the county in which the land lies,
and the time for the registration of- deeds was prolonged until Tennessee was erected iito an independent sta.te,
after which the time for enregi-tcring of 41eeds continued to be prolonged by the legislature of that state.
In tle year 1797, the legislature of Tennessee enacted a law, declaring that deeds made without the limits
of the state.should be admitted to registration on proof
that the same was acknowledged by the grantor, or
proved by one or more of the subscribing witnesses in
open Court, in sonie one of the Courts of the United
States, and on no other proof whate er, except where
fhe party holding such deed shall have the same proved

EIWINIS
I.SSEE.

SuP±iEImE COURT L. S.
or acknowledged within the limits of the state of Tennessee, aqreeable to the mode hcretfore in force'and
use in that state.

1SLACKWFLL

v.
PATTON &

It is contended by the counsel for the Defendants in
error, that tIib deed being recorded in the proper coun- ty, thej-.dgment of a competent Court has been given
Pn the sufficiency of the testimony on which it was registered, and that judgmnt is not examinable in any
othi.r tribunal. But this. Court is not of that opiin.
The pro~of on whiv'h a deed shall be. registered is presciibed by law, and it is enacted that the deed shall not
be googt and , vailable in law, unless it be so proven and
recorded. The (,vidence therefore is spread upon the
record, and is always attainalfc. The order that a
deed should be ad'nitted to record is an exparte order,
and , lght often be .;btained improperly if the order
was conclusive. It is believed to be the practice of all
fjourts; where the law directs conveyances to be.recorded, and prescribes the testimony on which they shall
be recorded in terms similar to those employed in the
act of North Carolina, to hold themselves at liberty to
examinp the preof on which the reg!strafiQrn has beepi
nale.

ERWIN'S
LLSSRF.
-

This deed in the present case was proved before judge
JIaywood, in North Carolina, by one of the subscribing witnesses thereto, on the 29th of, September, 1797,
aqd rcgstered in Stoke's county, in North Carglina.
On the 9th flay of December, 1807, the hand-writing
of the slibscrihing witnesses, who were dead, and of
the graniors, was proved before Samuel Powell, one of
the ludges of the Supreme Court of law and equity, in
the state of Tenn.ssee, who thereupon ordered the deed
to be reqwstered, and afterwards in November term,
1808, Ihe same proof was received in open Court in the
coMinty where the lands lie, and was ordered to be rewhich order was executed.
gistered by tat C~cirtu
This Court ia rf opinon. hat the deed was not s,,flcientlv preyed accordingto Ilie than existing law. The
prokaty beforejudge Haywood was nots .Acientto prove
it as a deed made out of the s ate, because the act of
4797 reqmired that such probate 4hould be made in open

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
Court. The proof made before judge Powell, and in lLACKopen Court, is insuflicient, becaus6 it was -not made by WP.EL
T.
a subscribing witness.
PATTON

On the 23d of November, i809., the legislature of -mwii's
Tennessee passed an act, declaring that all deeds for LBSSEE.
land within the state, made out of the state by grantors
residing without tht- state, and *,which shall have been
proven by one or more of the subscribing witnesses
thereto, or acknowledged by the grantor or -grantors
before any judge of any Court in another state, 'Ar before the mavor, &c. and shall have been registered ip
this state in the. county where the land, or any part
thereof lies, within the time required by law for registering the same, such probate and registratimrA shall .be
good*and suflicient to entitle the same to be read in evidence in any Court within this state."
This act appears to the Court to cover the preci.e
case. This was a deed for land lying within the state
of Tenneseee, made out of the state by grantors residing without the state, which had been proven by one of
the subscribing witnesses thereto before a judge of a
Court of another state, and had been registered in the
county where the land lay within the time required by
law' for reqistering the same,
This act gave complete validity to the registration
made in December, 1808, and eptitled the deed to be read
in evidence. It looked back, in order to affirm and legalize certain,registrations made on prolates which did
not satisfy the laws existing at'the time, but which the
legislature deemed suficient for the future.
In tracing his title, the Plaintiff in the Circuit Courtgave in evidence a deed to himself which bore date posterior in point of time to the demise laid in the declaration of ejectrpent. The 'Defendant, on this account,
objected'to the deeds going in evidence to the jury, but
the Court'over-iruled the objection, and declared the date
of the lease 'to be immaterial, and that it should be oyerlooked, or the plaintiff have leave to amend. .The declaration was amended by striking out the 4ate of the
lease mentioned in-the-declaration, and ;ns rtinq a date
postenor to the conveyance made to thePlaintiff.

SUPREME' COURT U. S.
In an qjectment the.lease is entirely a fiction invented
for the purpose of golm; farlv to trial on the title.
T.
Courts have exercised a full discretion in allowing it to
,rATTON& be anienued. A Plaintiff has frequently been allowed
-unwIx's t,) nlargethe term when it has expired before a final deLiESSEE. ciston of the cause. Between makin the term extend
to a more d stant day, anti commence at a later day, the
C.urt canperccive no difference in substance. They
are modifications of the same power intended to effect
the same object, and although not precisely the same in
form, the one is not greater in degree than the other.
The amendment therefore was properly allowed.
IILACX-

wila.

Although this Court is of opiion, that the Circuit Court erred in saying, that it was unnecessary to
prove a title li the lessor of the Plaintiff at the date of
the demise laid in the declaration, yet it is an error
which could not injure the Defeoidants, or in any tianner affect the cause. The amendment being allowed,
the question whelier the deed could have been read in
evidence had the amendment not been made becomes
whi ily immaterial, and this Court will not notice it.
For the purpose of showing liat the. original grant
was void, the Defendant ilhen offered evidence to prove,
that it was founded on a duplicate warrant issued by
John Armstrong, entry-taker of western lands for the
state of North Carolina, in the year 1798, the original
warrant being still in the hands of the surveyor gnreral
of the middle district within whichi the original entry
was situated, and that the grantees, after the said grant
was issued, obtained the original warrant from the stirveyor general, and procured another grant founded
thereon for other lands. To the admission of this testimony, the Plaintiff objected, and the Court sustained the objection. To this opinion also an exception was
taken.
By the laws of North Carolina, under which this entry was made, any citizen was permitted to enter-with
the- entry-taker any quantity of land not exceeding
5,000 acres, which it was his- duty to aescribe specifically After the expiration of three months the entrytaker was to give him a copy of the entry, with a war
rant to the surveyor to survey the land. As no other

FEBRUARY TERM i81S.
land than that described could be surveyed under tits BL.CKentry and warrant, while the land really entered' re- w.T.
v.
mained vacant, it was entirely unimportant whether the
survey was made under the first or it seconi copy of the PATTON &
entry. If indeed two iersons claimed the same land, ERwI:'s
under different surveys and grants, the elder patentee LEssEE.
would of course hold the land at law.. But no pe:'sor
other than such subsequent patentee, or one claiming
under him, could contest the elder grout. To 'the
state, and to all the world, it was perfectly immaterial
when this grant issued, whether it emanated on the first
copy of the entry, or on any other copy, as no other
use had then been made of the first copy, and thus grant
was unimpeachable.
In 17S1, a power was given to rcmove entries when
they were made on lands previously granted or entered.
But certainly this would not extend to the removal of an
entry, and the survey of other lands on a copy thereol.
whtch entry had already been executed and carried into
grant, either on the first or on any other copy The
face of the grant gave no notice that it had issued on a
second copy of the entry, and as the case was not provided for by law, it is not improbable that every copy
given by the entry-taker woVld bear the same appearance. There was nothing which would indicate to a
purchaser that some future fraud might possibly be
practised whereby another grant might be obtained, and
wich might caution him, that a title, good to every arpearance, was infected by a circumstance into which
the law did not expect hum to inquir-. Had no subsequent patent issued in this case for other lands, itwould
not be contended that this patent was either void or voidable, and it is perfectly clear that a patent which was
valid when issued, never can be avoided in the hands of
a fair purchaser, by a subsequent fraud committed by
the original patentee. It is the subsequent patent which
injures the state, and which is obtained by fraud. It is
the subsequent patent, if either, the validity of which is
questionable.
In the year 179.5, an act passed directing the books
of entry-takers to be delivered to the clerks of the several county courts in which such entry-takers respectively
resided And in :1796, an act passed prescribing the

SUPIEME COURT U. S.
nimcl- manner in which duplicates might be obtained, where
%YELL the warrants wee lost, and others had not been issued,
while the books remained with the entry-.takers.
41.
I'ATTON &
ERWIN'S
LESSEE.

It is strongly to be inft..- ' not only from the language of this act, but from the circumstance that no
provision is made for duplicates to be issued by the entry-taker in future cases of host warrants, that every
copy of an entry which was granted by the entry-taker,
was considered as an original, and as an equal autiiority to the surveyor to survey the land entered. The
entry being once executed, it was his duty not to execute it again.
This act provides, that where duplicates shall issue
from the clerk, by order of the Court. the surv "yor
shall note the fact in his plat, and it sLall appear o the,
face of the grant, that the same is issmid on a duplicate,
and shall be liable to become null and void, if it shall
appear that a grant had been Qbtained on. the original
warrant.
This act applies only to grants isqued on duplicates
obtained in conformity with its provisions, and would
seem to respect only the junior patent. It cannot affect
the grant in this case, which was issued before its passage. But it affords stron.g reason for the optnion, that
the state of :North Carolina did not purpose to impeach
its own grants, unless they conveyed notice to the world
that they were impeachable and even then they were
voidable, not void. An individual not claiming under
the same entry, could not avail himself of their liability
to be avoided.
It is the opinion of the Courtthat there is no error,
and that thejudgmentbe affirmed.

