SUPREME COURT U. S.
TnE-

It is therefore the opinion of this Court that the decree of the Circuit Court with respect to the second exv.
ception be xeversed, and that the cause be remanded to
fuor-oN & the Circuit Court, in order that an account may be
*OTHZRS. taken pursuant to the written agreement of the partisa-reeably to the custom and manner of settling accounts
in London.
LAwD

WELCH -o. MANDEVILLE,
1812.
March

2d.

Present....Ill the judges.
The refusal
of the Court

ERROR to the Circuit Court for tihe district of
Columbia, sitting at Alexandria.

below to re-instate a cause
vhich has

An action of covenant was brought in that Court, in
dimmid, ,
the name of James Welsh, the Plaintiff, but really for
o ground for the use and by the sole ordersi of Allen Prior, against

awritoferror.
The normnal

Mandeville
and Janmeson, upon a contract for the sale
l

Plantiff nmy of land to them by Welch. At the second term after
had been entered against Welch at
disrmss ainsuitIns an office judgment
*1,1
brought

the rules, the Defendant, Mandeville, who .alone had
been taken, produced to the clerk a release under the
seal of Welch and an order from him to dismiss' the
the ause of the suit, whereupon the clerk made an entry on the
minutes of the Court, that the action was dismissed by
agreement of the parties. Afterwards, at the same term,
the attorney who brought tie suit in the name of Welch,
moved the Court to re-instate it, and grounded his motion
iupon his own affidavit and tli',papers mentioned therez
in. The affidavit stated, that in the autumn of 1799,
Prior, broughtto the attorney'3 bills of exchange, drawn
by Welch upon Mandeville and Jameson, for 2500 dollars
each, and an account in the handwriting qf Mandeville,
acknowleding a balance due. to Welch on the sist of
January, 1798, of 8707 dollars and 9 cents-to be paid
in the times and manner therein stated. -Prior, at the
same time, stated that Welch was indebted to lm and
titat he haa taken those bills in payment, which Ntanderille and 3ameson refused to accept, saying that Welch
name bv a
creditor who
ha
not anasgomlent:
of

FEBRUARY TERM k8i2.
bad deceived them in the sale of 'the landis. Prior left WELOCr
IV.
the papers with his attorney, and requested him to take
MANDEMandet'ille
from
money
the
obtain
the best measures to
and Jameson, wreupon he brought two suits in the VILLB.
county Court of Fairfax, in Virginia, the one was
a suit at law in the name of Welch against M. and - .
founded upon their acknowledgment of the balance of
account.-The other was a chancery attachment, in the
name of Prior against Welch, as an absent debtor, ani
charging M. and J. as Garnishees.
Upon the trial of the suit at law, the Defendants produced the original contract respecting the sale of land,
whereupon the attorney. for Welch suffered a non-suit.
and having obtained an office copy of the contract
brought the present suit thereon, for the use of Prior,
in the name of Welch, but without his directions, which
was known to Mandeville. There had been no decision in the chancery attachment. The attorney never
had any communication with Welch upon the subject
of this suit, but he had reason to believe that Welch
knew of the suits in Fairfax county and did not interfere with them. The attorney corresponued solely with
Prior on the subject of this suit, who had directed the
application of the money when recovered. That the
attorney did not know of the release and order to dismiss the zuit until after the entry was made on the minutes, and that the suit had been dismissed without his
consent or that of Prior, who had, been at all the expense of the suit. That he had been informed that
Welch was in the prison bounds, and that when Prior
put.the papers into his hands, lie informed him that it
was his only prospect of receiving payment of the debt,
due to him by Welch.
Whereupon the Defendant, Mandeville, produced
the affidavit of Welch, stating that lie drew the bills in
favor of Prior, merely for him to get them accepted, and
negotiate them for account of Welch and as his agent.
That Prior never gave value for them, and instead of
bem,the creditor of Welch, washis debtor, and that
he,,(Welch) never made a transfer or assignment of the
contract with Mandeville and Jameson to Prior or any
other person.
t
YOL,.VIL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WELCH
The Defendant, Mandeville, also produced a paper
v.
purporting to be the answer of Welch, to the chancery
MAnI - attachment in Fairfax county, (but-vhich had not
vin.
then been filed in the suit) which contained the subfstance
of his affidavit-and also a letter written by Welch to
Mandeville and Jameson, and sent by Prior at the time
he presented the bills, corroborating the fact that Prior
was only his agent in that business.
In this state of the case the Court below continued the
motion to re-instate the cause until the next term, to
give an opportunity to Prior to produce evidence of an
assignment of the contract and of his right to bring suit
upon it, at which term he produced ins own affidavit
stating that Welch was indebted to him upwards of
1.4000 dollars, and that Welch gave him the 3 drafts on
Mandeville and Jameson, for his (Prior's) own use and
benefit, for and on account of a tract of land sold to Welch,
and which Welch sold to another person. He produced
also certain other documents tending to corroborate his
affidavit.
But the Gzurt below refused to re-instate the cause
and ordered it to be dismissed according to the agreementzf the parties, to which refusal .AUen Prortook a
bill of exceptions which the Court signed.
Upon the opening of the case,
MA I SLHA,
chief justice, enquired whether the question, whetier a refusal to re-instate a cause, be ground
of error, had not been decided by tIus Court.

E. I. LrFE, for PlantS"m error---said that it had
not been directly decided.

The clause of the act of Congress which gives this
Court appellate jurisdiction of causes decided in the
Circuit Court for the districto f Columbia, (Laws United
States, Vol. 5. p. 270. §. 8.) differs from that clause of
the general judiciary which gives this Court its appel..
late jurisdiction in other cases. The expression of the
former clause is "any final judgment order or decree;"
but the expression in the general law (Vol. :1. p. 62. §.
22. ) is "ftnaludgments and decrees." The word order
must mean something differenk from a judgment or a
decree. It seems peculiarly applicable to a final order

FEBRUARY TERM i8i2.
dismissing a suit. This peculiar phraseology was relied upon to give jurisdiction to this Court in the case

WELOCU

0.

of Custzss v. The GeorgetownTurnpike Compavy, (Cranch, MxANDk'
VILL.
vol. 6. p. 233.)
SwAixo contraThis case, is within the principle of the cases already
decided by this Court-such as the refusal of the Court
below to grant a new trial, or to continue a cause. To
re-instate a cause, after it has been once legally decided
is a matter of mere discretion.
E. I. LEE, in reply.
If the clerk had dismissed it at the rules, and the
Plaintiff had applied to the Court at the next succeeding term to re-instate it and the Court had refused, it
would not have been an exercise of discretion, but denial of right. It would have been error in law. I. Strange,
235, Nevwel -. Pidgeon,
C. LEE, on the same side.
There is a difference between dismissing a cause
without trial and refusing, a new ftial. It cannot be
possible that the Court may dismiss every suit upon
the docket and yet the injured parties have no remedy,
which would be the case if the dismissing of a suit be
-;qatter of discretion which this Court cannot control.
lharch .5th.

All the Judges being present,

MAmsHALL, Ch. Justice. The majority of the Court
is of opinion that the motion to re-instate the cause, was
an application to 4e discretion of the Court, and its
refusal is not a ground for a writ of error.

After the Court had delivered this opinion it became a
question whether the writ of error should be dismissed,
or the judgment affirmed.
After consideration of the case aiin,

On tho 7th of Jfarei

SUPREME COURT U. S

156

WzLCVH
V.

MARSHALL, Ch. .JIstice, stated it to be the opknion of
the Court, that the judgment of the Court below should
D.
bp affirmed. The writ of error is to the judgment
viLn. erally The refusal to re-instate the cause being nogenerror in law, the Court can see no error in the principal
judgment.

Judgment affirwed.

MARSTELLER AND OTHERS v. WPCLEA.

±sis.
March

2d.

Present....all the judges.
Co uERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
X
ote
avoid
the plea Columbia.
of thL statute

of

ioy

Thi s

a action of trespass for nesne profits after

Jont tenants, a recovery
to sh essathe present

in ejectment by the present Plaintiffs against
Defendant, who pleaded the statute of limitations, to wich the Plaintiffs replied, in substance,

all the Ph,
tifs a disability
ere un- that
der
to sue.

Christiana, the wife of one of the Plaintiffs, and

Elizabeth, the wife of another of the Plaintiffs, in whose
rights they sue, "were femes covert when the cause
-of action accrued, and have ever since continued
" femes covert"V-,, and -that kitty Hunter," one of the
"Plaintiffs 6- was a feme covert," and that the other
Plaintiffs, in whose right the suit was brought, were
infants at the time the cause of action accrued, and also
at the commencemeiit of the action. To this replication there. was a general demurrer and joinder, on
which the court below rendered judgment- for the Defendant.
U. SmiNuxs and R. I. TAYoRp for the Defendant in
error, contended,
I. That tl,e replication was bad, because it did not
show that an the Plaintiffs were entitled to sue, notwithstanding the statute of limitations. It did not state
that Kitty Hunter continued a feme covert until less
than five years next before the commencelet of tie

