tUPREME CIURT U. 9.

278

CAMPBELI, On the sane side. Jugustterm is as iauch
a term fir tests and retun of -writs as February term.
suppose thewrit'borc teste ten years ago it,might as

BLACK-

WF, r
v.

PATTME&-well

be made returnable to February term, 1811, as

this writ which bore teste of February term, 1810. If
tested of Februqry trm 1810, it onghitt have been
the returnable to -August term, 1819, aud npt tq February

OTHERS

stand'in

interveptioool
terrm, betm --en

rtur ten
writ.

....

The appearanceof the Defendants in error only cures
the want of a citation, not a fault in the writ of error
itself.
Jlarch ibth.... t81the Judges being present,
The CO3IRT reiused to quash or dismiss the writ of
error on account of the irregularity of its teste.

WALLEN v. WILLIAMS.
i812.
March

13.

Present ....All the Judges.
This Court

an

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the district of Tennessee, to reverse a decree in Chancery. The Court

had issued a writ of habere factas possessionenm
below
bxeeutiown

The writ of error was too late to
issued by the to enforcetl'decree
Certbelto be a supersedem3 to the decree.
cree pending
the wrTt of er- JONES,
writ
ror,if the
oferror be not the writ

for the Plainfiff i error, now moved to quash
of habere facis as irregular, and contended

a supersedeas that the Court below, sitting as a Court of Chancery,
tn the decree, under the laws of Tennessee, could only enforce by execution decrees for the payment of niney, and cited Tennessee La~ws, Ed. 1807, p. 158. ยง 2.
P B. KnY, contra. This Court has no jurisdiction
to quash an execution issued from the Court below, and
eecuted. But if this Court had the power to do it, it
would not in its discretion quash a process which has
merely carried into effect the decree of the Court below. If the decree be reversed upon the merits, the ex-

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

279

iecution will be of no avail, but the Court will not a W
ficipate the merits upon such a motion.

WAIaMEv

v'"
WIL.IAMS

MAusALL, Ch. . The writ of error is to the original decree, which did not aw#Ard this writ. of habere
facids. It was awarded by a subsequent order of tli6
Court, to which no writ of error issued.

J. The attachment to compel -a performance
of the decree was' unavailing, and upon the return of
it, the habere faezas was issued in conformity with the
practice in that state, as admitted by the counsel on
both sides in the Court below. It was ordered as a matt~r of course, and no objection was made. If this motion should prevail, it will make the writ of error operate as a sutpersedeas, contrary to the intention of the
act of Congress.
TODD,

..otion overruled.

MKIM v. VOORHIES,
March

15th

Preseut.....llthe Judges.
THUIS was P case certified from the Circuit Court for
StateCourt
the district of Kentucky,. in which the opinions of the Abas no urdiction to enJudges were opposed.
joina judgei of the
AV the July adjourned term of the Court below ,ment
ircuit Court
Ceo~
adjourned
the year 1808, Jfl,'Kim, a citizen of Maryland, recover- of the U. s,
ed a judgment in ejectment a5ainst 77oorlues, a citizel ot
Kentucky, forthe undivided third part of a water mill,
with its appurtenances, in the county of Franklin, m
the state of Kentucky At the same time Voorhies filed his bill in Chancery in the Court below against
.MWKim, and John Instone, a eitizeu of Kfentuckq, and
Hlayden Edwards, a citizen of South Carolina, claiming an equitable lien on the said third part of the mill,
&c. on account of contradts, &c. between Bennett Penberton (under whom Voorlues held the premises) and
Haydei Edwards an4 John Instone , Pemberton haying

