600

SUPRIDME COURT U. S.

T=YG ed that the s81p was not illegallyfitted out, although she
MAr-OL)NE had taken on board some articlescalculated for war.
*0.

voST.&TES.

J. R. ING-EiRSOLL, contra.
Contended that the case and the libel were sufficiently explicit. The intent was clearly shewn. It is not
nec ssary that every thing necessary for the voyage
should, be on board befdre the forfeiture accrues. The
libel states the offence in the words of the act of Congress.

THE CouRT, after taking time to consider, directed
the folIwing sentence to be entered.
"tThis cause came on to be heard on the transcript
" of the record and was argued by counsel, on considerc ation whereof, it is .the opinion.of the Court, that the
"6libel ts too imperfectly drawn. to found a sentence of con66demnation thereon. The sentence of the said Circuit
it Court is therefore reversed, and the. c;,use remanded
"to the said Circuit Court, -with directions to admit the
" libel to be amended."
The same point was .also decided at this term, in the
cases of the schooner ffoppet-the selto.ner Rnterpnrie- the ship Emily, and the schooner .qnn.

1513..
March

RIGGS v. LINDSAY.

9th:

____

0

bsent....TonOD

r.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Columbia, in.an action of assumpsit, in which the verdict
ordered tue ani judgment were in favor of the Plaintiff, Lindsay.
TheDeen.
having
dants

Plhuntiff'to
purchase salt

fr them, and The case was now argued by JoiNs and HARPER. for
to draw.on the Plaintiff in error, and byF S. Kzy and MoRs MLa
-torm for thf
for tbe Defendant.
o,,
u
he-having so
The former contended,. that Riggs was notte be co
purh;md and
Tn
drawn, ly
und to sidered as a joint contractor, but a sub-purchaser., and
.

FEBRUARY TERM isis.
that if the Defendants were jozntly interested in the RIGG9
T.
purchase, they were severaly interested in the sales. In
support of this position, they cited Watson on Partner-LiNDSAr.
--oyep. 449. 2 H. Bl. 298.
ship, 24. 1 Vez. 242..
accept and
Doug. 371. t I H. Bl. 37
pay his bills;
and if they do.

not, he may
from
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the recover

Court, which was delivered as follows, by
IvINGsTON,

LIVIGSTO,
T.

them the ameunt of the
dames
bills andand
costs of pro.

has
thehesame)
paid (if
.. teat
This was an action brought by the Defendant in eror, in the Circuit Court of the- United States for the upon a count

district of C'olumnia, against William St,.wart, Charles for money
3: Nourse, Aquila Beal, and the Plauntiff in error, Eli paid, laid out,
sha Riggs, as co-partners, to recover from them the and the bills of
-xchange may
amountol" certain bills of exchange and damages which be
given in
had been drawn on them by the Defendant in error to evidence on
rdimburse him for certaiih sal- which he had purchased that count.
on their account. and which bills, being protested for I" one Defen.
non.payment, were afterwards paid, witi damages, by in evidence a
from his
the Plaintiffs b,low. The Derendent, Beall, was not letter
found-the Defendants, Nourse and Stewart, confessed tothePlaintheie latter
in
judgment, and the other Defendant, Riggs, pleaded the tiff, ma
evidence the
general issue.
written declaThe declaration contained several counts on the rations of that
cuw-defendaat

bills of exchange, and two general counts, the one for to discredit
and paid, the other for money the letter.
money laid out, expended
hal and received, under which last counts a verdict was protest of the
emthe the
bills,
found for the Plaintiff
tiff"sell
salt without
it shaft
It appeared in evidence, that some time in , ..vem- orders,
not preudice
elow,
Defendants
othe
two
Beall,
and
Stewart
ber, 1809,
h9Isright of so.
wrote a letter to the Plainti ordering a purchase of tion, athough

salt, and stating that two other persons were concerned he render no
in the said order. This letter directed him to purchase to the Denfrom 10 to 30,000 bushels, and authorized him to draw dants.
for the amount of such purchases on the Defendants,
Stewart and Beall, or on George Price and Co. of Baltimore. Purchases zof salt were accordingly made by
Lindsay, who fromtime to time apprized Stewart and
Beall of the same. On the 4th January, 1810, one of
the D0efendants wrote to Lindsay as!followR

-SUPREME COURT U. S.
RIGs
0.

1NIDSAY,

f SIR,
" You will hold up what salt you may have purchas"ed, and send as a statement of your purchases. You
"have no doubtreceived Stewart and Beal's orders, re-'questing no further purchase. We shall some time,
v lheuce direct, you as to the disposal of the quantity
,,purchased. In the meai time you may draw upon us,
f, or upon: Stewart and Beall for the amount," &c.
It appears tifat Lidsay afterwards drew several bills
of exchange on the parties who had subscribed the last
mentioned letter, and who were the Defendants, in favor
of certain personis therein named, including his commission for purchasing. These bills were presented to
the drawees, who refused to accept or pay the same, on
which they were protested and returned to Lindsay, who
took them ip. By the laws of South Carolina ten per
cent. damages are allowed on the return of such bills
under protest, and there was proof that these damages
had also been paid by Lindsay After the return of
these bills and payment of them by Lindsay, lie sold the
salt, and the proceeds on such re-sale were stated by
Zihidsay-s counsel at the trial to thejury, who were desired to deduct the same from his demand against Riggs,
whhic was done, and a verdict given for the balance.
There was no other evidence of the proceeds than such
admission, and the Defendant, Riggs, denied that the
sum stated by Lindsay's counsel was the amnount
thereof..
In the course of the trial, the counsel of Riggs produced a letter from Nourse to the Plaintiffs, which, as
hesupposed, contained a statement favorable to his client.
To discredit this statement, the Plaintiff likoduced certain interrogatories, which had been exhibited to Nourse,
with his answers. which were at variance with the letter produced by Riggs.
The first exception taken, at time trial, to the conduct
of the Court, was to its admission of proof of the several oills which had been drawn by Lindsav, and protested and paid by him, and the instruction which it
gave to the jury that under the count for money paid,
laid out, and expended, Lindsay might recover, not his

FEBRUARY TERM isis
commissions which were included in the billsj but the
ten per cent. damages, if the jury were satisfied that
they nad been actually paid uy him.
Neither in .the admission of this testimony, nor in
the instructions given on it, was any error committed
by the Circuit Court. As Lindsay was expressly authorized to draw, by the letter of the *th of Jadluary,
i80, he certainly had a right to do so, and whether
the Defendants accepted his bills or not, so as to render
themselves liable to the holders of them, there can be no
doubt that as between Lindsay and them, it was their
duty, and that they were bound n law to pay them. Not
having done soj and Lindsay in consequence of their
neglect having taken them up, he must be considered
as paying their debt, and as this was not a voluntary
act on his part, but resulted from ins being their surety, (as he may well be considered from the moment he
drew the bills) it may well be said that in paying the
amount of these bills, which ought to have b9en pado
and was agreed to be paid by the drawees, lie paid so
much money for their use. Nor can any good reasen
be assigned fok distinguishing the damages from the
principal sum, for if it were the duty of the Defendants
to pay such principal sum, it is as much so to reunburse Lindsay for the damages which, ,by the law of
South Carolina, he was compelled to payj and which
may therefore also be considered as part of the debt due
by the Defendant in consequence of tie violation of
their promise contained in the letter whicl has just
been mentioned.
The second exception which appears on the record is
to.the admission 'of certain interrogatories which had
been propounded to time Defendalt,. Nourse, with his answers to the samej having an indorsement upon the
same, purporting to be an acknowledgment of Nourse
that the same were correct.
In the opinion of this Court,.this paper was rendered
prcer evidence by tme conduct of time Defendant, Riggs,
who had read as evidence for himself a letter from
Nourseto Lindsay, dated the tith April, 1810, contaninig,
as he supposed, some matters favorable to his defence.
This letter having been thus produced by Riggs him-

RIGGS

v.
LlAMSAY.

'SUPREME COURT-U. S.
niGS self, it was certainly right "to allow Lindsay to discre.
IV.
dit the representations made in that letter by she,, ing
L.IND Ay. that Nourse had mimself at another time given a very
different account of the same transaction.
The other opinions of the Court below, to which exceptions were taken, may -be comprised in these two,
'that the Court erred in thinking the Defendants jointly
liable as co-partners, and that the re-sale of the.salt did
not destroy the Plaintiff's right of action. In both these
opinions, this Court concur with the Circuit Court.
It is perhaps as clear a case of joint liability as can
well be conceived. Whatever doubt there might be in.
dependent of the letter of the 4,th of January. 180,
most certainly that letter puts this question at rest.
Every one of the Defendants sign it, and there is now
no escape from the responsibility which thiey all thereby
incurred to tho Plainfiff. Nor %lidLindsay's selling the
salt after he had taken up these bills, destroy his right
of action against the.Defendants. If he has,acted irregularly in so doing, he will be liable, in a proper action,
for the damages which the Defendants have sustained
by such conduct, but such sale could not be pleaded or
set up in bar-to the present suit. Nor willthe Defendant, under the circumstance of this case, be injured
by the sum. which the jury have discounted from Lindsay's demand, if it shall hereafter appear that as much
was not allowed the Defendants on that account as
ought to have been.
TIhe judgment of the Circuit Cour&is affirmed,
with costs.

1813.
MIarch

9th.

M'INTIRE v. WOOD.

Mbsent.... WASHIiGTON, J. and
TODD, X

THIS case came up ftom the Circuit Court for the
district
of Ohio, upon a certificate stating that the
....
Courts or the judges of that Court were. divided in opinion upon the
United States question, Whether that Court had power to issue a writ
to of .,-the of
ossue
,,it
mandamus to the register of ,,land-office-i Ohov
o we

rrt
tehe Circuit

