FEBRUARY TERM

83.

40

admit of a course of pleading which puts it out of our
power to prevent the exe6ution of judgments obtained
under those laws, certainly u effect will be given to
that article of the constitution in direct hostility with
the object of it.

Aiu
o.
DURYEE
---

I will not now undertake to decide, nor does tins case
require it, how far the Courts of the United States
,would be bound to carry into effect such judgments,
but I am unwilling to be precluded, by a technical niceti; from exercising our j udgment at all upon such cases,

OLIVER
TYHE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANYt

i81s.
March

.Absent....WAsHINGToN, J. and TODD, J.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district OfThe longth of
Maryland. The case arose upon a policy, of insurance time a vessd
t-1
Bar- ay
on the snow Comet, "at and from Baltimore to
go,vthoatdis
Baltito
back
Barcelona
"celona, and at and from
"cmore."

charging the

ounderwriters,
,does

not dex

th
end
the"
She arrived at-Barcelona on the 25th of July, •1807, usg~e-of
and after remaining forty days under quarantine, went trade.
daugg.
up to the city where she remained until the 8th of Jan- The
which will-va-s
uary, 1808. She then proceeded to Saloni for the prii- t avet icipal part of her cargo,, which she took in there and remaining m
a.long
Rort withtt~
to Baltimore time,
'
sailed from thence on her returnj. voyage
on the 28th of January, 1808, and was captured by the discharging
undermust
writers,,
British and condemned under, the orders in council ofthe
be obiou, mnthe 7th of November, 1807
mediLate,

di-

ted
At the trial the Defendants insisted oi the delay at re1
of
tho
deviationsruption
as
Salon
at
Barcelona and the stoppinz
Y6 .& ir,which destroved the•o Plaintiff's
" right to recover upon ent, not di}"
the policv. The Plaintiff justified the stopping at Salou tant, eoai-

688

SUPREME COURT, . S

oLiVER by the usage of the trade. To justify the delay at BarV.
celona he relied on two grQunds, Ist, a reasonable apiNAlY'D. prehension of captre, and 2d, the usage 6f the trade.
INS. co. Butt the Court below decided that these excuses, under
-the cicumstances stated in the bills of exceptions, were
gefi & ndefi- insufficlent. Verdict ad judgment were rendered for
mite.

Ifaccordingto the Defendants,
the usage of error.
the trade, a
vessel be er-

_itted to go

and the Plaintiff *ruh
i writ
brought hs
ito of

The circumstances relied upon to show a reasonable

from one port apprehension of danger were stated in the captain's procollecthereatotest to be as follows: that hearing, in the month of Augo, and she un- gUSt, news respecting the dispute'between Great Britain
aeceusailyex and the United States respecting the Chesapeake fr-

Laust at one

,

tortthewhole gate, the agents recommended tjpn remaining in Bartime allowed celona until they should hear how the difit rences should
'
according to
the usage tFtermmiale, as part of tieir return cargo was to be purthe trade to chased by bills on Londoii. That when they were in
complete her
carpgo, she can- the act of sailing for Salou on the ist of December,
not go to the they were mform:-d that the Algerme cruizers were
other
withoutport
being out capturipg American vessels,
vses and
n tb.y
le were advsed
die
guilty of such to remain until they received further information.
a deviation as
will avoid the

mp
1ey.

What is a rea-

sonl appe

hARPEn, for he -Plazntiff in error, contended,

st

St. Tht the vessel htd a right, under the usage
a ques- proved, to remain at Barcelona till
cargo was probedc lewovided at Salou, and then to go to her
Salou to take it in.
the Court.
And, 2d. That she had a right to remain at Barc~lona
Quere.)
tl the danger of the Algerine crtuzers bad passed
away i Varshall, 204. I Johnson, 181, 301. 2 Joinsocable ap'e
dan-

s

son, 138.

3 Johnson, 352.

MART N and PxNYIEY, contra,

Did not deny that a reasonable apprehension of great
danger would justify a reasonabje delay; but contended
there was no sufficient evidence of such reasonable apprehension. And with regard to the usage of trade
they insisted, that if the vessel exhausted her time for
loading at Barcelona, she was not justified bv the usage
of the trade in going to Salou. That the Court, and
not the jury, was to judge from the facts whether the
apprehension of danger was reasonable.

PEBRUARY £EIRM 1[81s.

H

zu
n,riply, contended,

4LIv

That tlhe question, whether there was keasonable ap MAi%
pr~heftsion of danger, was q question of fact for the iNs. Vq.
jury to decide, or it was a -question in -which the law and.fact were so blended as to be a npatter properly
cognizable by the jqr3y.
-

JtarchiUth...MUSHATJ. Ch.J. delivered the opinion of the Court as fpJlows
This was an action brought on a policy iNuring the
Snow Comet at and from Baltimore to Barcehna and
at ano from thence back to Baltimore. The Comet arrived at Barcelona on the 25th day of July, in the ybar
1807, where she was compelled to perform quarantine.
On the 28th of November the Comet cleared out from
barcelona for,Salqu, .a port of Catalonia, about sixty
i.s south of B, rcelpna, where her return cargo was
ready to be taken on board. On the first of Detember;
wh(.n in the. act of sailing, the officers of the vessel were
informed that the Algerine cruizers were out capturing
Anmeri a4 vessels. TI ey were advised to remain until
they received further information. On the 8th day of
January, IQs,% they sailed for Salpu and arrived on the
I0h. Thy were detaiied by high winds till the 28th
of Janpary, wheni th ey sailed for Baltimore. On the
5th of February the vessel was captured by a Britigh
cruizer, while on her return voyage, and carried into
Gibraltar, where she was vondemned under the orders
Evidence
Q
bf council of the 8th of November, 180
l fdr vssefs trading to Bar
was given that it was pqj

celona to tquplh at Salou or some othber port on'the same
coast, to take in the whole or part of thei return cargop

and that in sqme il.stncps vessels had remained in the
port of Barcelona foar, six, and even eight months,
waiting for a return cargo.
On tins evidence the pimnsel for the Defeodanfs
inoved the Court to instruet the j jry that the Plaintiff
could nqt recover in this cause hy reasog of the lenigth
of time the vessel remained at Barcelonia. The Court
refused to give the directiop as prayed1 but did instruct
the jury that, if they believe d the fiets stated, the Plmntiff was not entitled to recover unless from the whole
VOL. VII,
(s

SUPREME COURT U. S.
OLIVER testimony in the cause they should be of opinion that
the vessel did not remain longer at Barcelona than ther
V.
MARY'D. usage and custom of trade at that place rendered necesixs. co. sary to complete her cargo. To this direction of the
Court the PlaIntiff, by his counsel, excepted.
This exception was not much pressed at the bar, nor
does it appear to this Court to contain any principle to
which he could rightly object.
Unquestionably an idle waste of time, after a vessel
has completed the purposes for which she entered a port,
is a deviation which discharges the underwriters. If
the Comet remained without excuse at Barcelona an
unnecessary length of time while her cargo was ready
for her and she might have sailed, she would remain at
the risk of the owners-not of the underwriters
T'here is however some doubt spread over the opinton in tis case in consequence of the. terms in which it
is expressed. The vessel- might certainly remain as
long as was necessary to complete her cargo, but it is
scarcely to be supposed that tins was regulated by usage
and custom. The usages and customs of a. port or of a
trade are peculiar to the port or trade. But the necessity of waiting where a cargo is to be taken on board
until it can be obtained is common to all ports and to
all trades. The length of time frequently-employed in
selling one cargo and procuring another may assist in
proving that a particular vessel has or has not practised
unnecessary delays in port9 but can establish no usage
by which the time of"renmaining in port is fixed. The
substantial part of the opinion however appears to have
been, and seems so, to have been understood, that the
Plaintiff could not recover, unless the jury should be
of opinion that the vessel did not remain longer at Barcelona than was necessary to complete her cargo, of
which necessity the time usually employed for that purpose might be considered as evidence.
The Defendants then moved the Court to instruct the
jury that if the said vessel continued at Barcelona as
long as was justifiable by the usage of trade at that
place for completing and taking in her cargo, and did
vot complete and take in her cargo there, but after-

FEBRUARY TERM iss.
wards went to Salou and'remained there the length of
time as stated in the said protest, in such case the
Plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
The Court in.trucredt the jury that if the vessel re..
imained at Barcelona as Ion& as the usage of trade justified for the purpose of taking in a cargo there, that
she could not afterwards go to another port and take it
in without vacating the policy.
To this opinion also the counsel for the Plaintiff excepted. Upon this exception there was some difference
of opinil in this Court. For myself, I considered the
direction as attaching the departure, which would avoid
the contract, to the act of sailing to and continuing in
Salou for the purpose of completing her return voyage,
and am of opinion that although the Comet might have
reinamed at Barcelona long enough'to have taken in a
return cargo there, for which she might or might not
be blameable, yet that no additional fault was committed by touching at Salon for the purpose of complbting
her cargo, if to touch at Salou for that purpose was the
usage of the trade.
A majority of the Court, however, is of a different
opmron. rhe usage to stay at Barcelona for a return
cargo, and to touch at Salou for a return cargo, as disclosed in the Plaintiff's evidence, are considered bv them
not as independent but as auxiliary usages which are to
be taken in connexion in ascertaining whether there
was.or was not unreasonable delay in the conduct of
the voyage. The assured had a right, under these
usages as they are called, to take in part of the cargo at
Barcelona and part at Salou, or the whole at either
port. The delay necessary for these purposes -would
be justifiable at either port; but if the assured exhausted the whole time, at one port, which, according to the
usage, was allowable only for the purpose of taking in
the whole cargo, the subsequent delay at another port,
for the purpose of taking ii the cargo, must be considered as unreasonable. The delay at Barcelona, under
such circumstances, could not be necessary. for the pur-poses of the voyage, and therefore would determine the
policy. But the deviation would rest merely in intenfion, until the time of sailing for Salou, for until that

OLIVER

10.
MARY'D,
INS. CO.

SUPREME COURT U, S.
OLxVER tie the ssured would have a right to lade his cargo
T'.
at"Bar.celona, and thus retroactively justify his stay
MAIY'D, there unler the usage. The 4elay ¢cald not be a con
iws. co. sumpiated deviation until tlie whole time allowed by the
usage was exhausted and the party had definitively
abandoned the lading of a cargo wlich would justify
that delay The opinion of the Court 4elow appears to
thimajority of this Court to have proceeded on this
ground and'to be correct.
The laitiff thei, in addition to thp 'former testi.
mony, gwpe evidence that itwas usual for vessels to remain at Barfelona until theqr return cargoes oi so much
thorof ps mig!t be necessary for their completion was
provid. and collected at Salou or som@, other soi4ther4
poqt Ii Patalonia, and then to sail to such port, for the
purpose 6f taking in the cargops sa cpllected.
The Defendants then moved the Cpuit tp instruct
the jury that since it appeared fiNm the protest of the

master ald others on board the Comet, and from the
sentence pf condemnation produced by the ]lintilf,

that all the return cargo, which the said vessel took im
at Barcelona, was taken in on or before the 28th of N]ovember, that the said vessel was then ready for sea,
and' was actually cleared out on the Ist of December;

and fhat being there, and 4bout to sail immediately for
Saloq, the sgid snow Comet, inconsequence ota report
that the Algerine cruizers were put cruizmg in the
Mediterranean pgainst American vessels, remainedt at
.Aarcrlo! a until tihe Sti of Jan:ary, 1808, before she
sailed 'frori Bqcelona if the jury believed these facts
tile Planltiff could not recover. This opinion wa
given by the Court and the Plaintiff excepted to it. "
Had not theltestimony on which this application was
founided been spiead upon the record the Court would
have found some ilfliclty in decu(ling op the propriety
of tile opinion N'hich Was given from the terms employed in stating the applicatiq t6 the Circnit Court. It
appears however from a coiparisop of the application
to the Court with the testimony on which it was finded, to have been intended to litain from the Court the
oplljio that the testimony respectipg the report that
the Algerines were opt capturfti Americani vessels was

FEBRUARY TEAM Ift03

49A

Yfot it 1cidnt joUstification for remaining at BArcelona boivn
V.from the, Ut of Decembei 1807, till the hth of Ja-iuary, 1808.

fINS? CO.
Co.

dafiger bf ciptdre I.
No doubt ig eiterhiihed that the
from thb Alerijits, if proved to bia rebl and imniediate,
wotild justify the continiianc in the6 port of BarcelhiA.
rif fouded on
Anid the apprehenbgon of uch tdange
reasonable evidefce, would produce A Aike effect. But
in ach cas, the dainger iust not be a iike general
OaigiPgi, inefiinite in its aplication lnd locahty. If it
o, tiUnie of wAiTr any ielay, hoWevei lig,iii a
wer 8i
tort, %io.14 become iekcusable; for there would alWays
be daiego of capture from the- enet/s: crwzers. NOr
is it sulijvient that thd dahger should be extraoidinary,
for then any considerable ihcrease of the general risk
wotud aiithltize a simailar delay; The danger, thlerefore,
must be obvious and imnimdiate in reference to the situation of the. ship at the particular time. It Mnust bb
pucht as is thoh direcily Aipplied to the int~rriptibn of
the voyAgeo and ritnnent; nbt such- as is merely ditafit, contingent aid ihdefimnte, In th preselit case it
is not shown that there was aiy daiger in poceeding
from Barceldha to Salou. No A gerihe force is showh
to be inteposed between those polfts. Whatever might
be the dangei- elsewhere, if there wa§ hone in proceedL
ing to and remaiiihg in Salou, it was the dUty of the
captain td have proceeded to that place, taken in hi'
cargo, and remaihed there fol' further infornialiom. *Tho
captain was bound tO have gone as far on his voyagi
,s lie could consistent with -the gehidal §afety.
The judgment is affirmed with costs.
LiVikGSTON; J.

I concur in the opinion that the jhdgment of the ViOcnit Court be alftmed, but in coming to this result I
hhve thought it necessary ti examitie oiily the foui'th
exception which was taken belokv. It is, accordihg to
my view of this cause' very immaterial td enquire Whether the Plaitiifs succeeded in establishing the usage,
M ithas bet-n incorrectly termed, for a vessel to remain
several months at Parcelona for the purpope of obtain-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
oI'vtt In- a return cargo or whether at one period the mas'-.
ter of the Comet entertained a well grounded apprehenSIARY . sion of danger of capture by 'British vessels; or whe]ns. co. t.er it was thw course and usage of the trade for vessels
bound from Barcelona to any foreign ports to touch at
Salou, or at some other port south of Barcelona, on the
coast of Catalonia, in order to take in their return cargoes, I say. whether these fact9 were established, or
what opinion the Court gave on them in "the course of
the trial, are in my judgment, as tins case comes up, totally irrelevant in the decapion of it, because there are
,other facts proved, and that by.the Plaintiffs themselves,
which are in the opinion of the whole Court fatal to
their clains. The facts are these
" That after all
-fear from British cruizers had ceased, to wit: on the
4, 28th of Noveinber, 1807, being ready for sea, the yes,sel cleared for Salou on the .st day of December fol,ow1iig, and when in the act of sailing, imf6rmatioh
-was received that the Algerine cruizers.were mot captaring American vessels, the iaastei was therefore
"a :vised to remain in port until they received other
intelligence, and did not sail for Salounntil the 8th of
,' January 1808."
On this evidence the Circuit Court strncted tlq
jury, that if they believed these facts to he true the
Plaintiffs were not entitled'to recpver. ]a' .git g tl*is
,opinii the Court in effe6 said, that the informaiion.
which was received at Barcelona respecting the Algev(ine frmzers did not justify a stay there from the 28th
-of Xvember to the 8th of,January
To this opinion two objections are made
The one is, that the 6bufit took upon itself to decide
whether the delay last mentioned proceeded'from a justifiable cause, instead of leaving it.to the jury to determine both tle law and the'fact, In doing so, I think
the Court committed no ,error. What will excuse a delay, apparently unreasonable, so~as to repel the charge
of a deviation on that account, must ever-he and oughtto be a, question of law, to be decided by a Court under
all the circumptances of the particular qase. In this
way only can any thing like certainty be attained but
if it be left to f .jury not only to,find the facts, whih is

FEBRUARY TERM i8is.
exclusively wifbin their province, but also to pronounce oxivrx
-v.
what-is the law resulting from them, it will, be next to
impossible to form a system of ruled by which a mer- mAuY'D.
chant may safely regulate Ins conduct.. Nor will- it ims. co.
help,the matter to consider it as a mixed, question 6f
law and fact, because that gives to the jury a right to
disregard the opinion of the Court, which they will have
no right to do in case it be considered exclusively as a
question of law on -which the Court alone has a right to
decide. In civil cases eveiry man has an interest in.
confining a jury -as much as possible to their proper
sphere, which is to decide on facts, -while a Court dbes
not encroach on their province, care should be taken,
not to encourage. any improper encroachment on their
part by unnecessarily throwing on-them any exercise-of
what are the legitimate. functiops of a Court.' Among
thesp none appear to me to be better settled,. than that
it is the exclusive privilege and bounden duty of a Court
to decide whdther an act, which is to be done within a
reasonable time to entitle a party to -maintain his' action, has been.perf6rmed within such time or not. So
also, where a party sets up an excuse for ap act which
will otherwise defeat his right to recover it appertains
exclusively to the Court to decide on the sufficincy oV
the matter. alleged. and if a jury, after deciding on the
facts, take-upon themselves the further office of determining tho-legal -effect thereof as to the case under consideration, in opposition to the -declared opinion of the
Court, they forget their duty and act contrary tor law.
But if this be a question of law, the Pliuintilf still
supposes that the Circuit Court erred in not thinking
.that the facts proved constituted a valid excuse for the
last forty days' stay at Barcelona, and in not instructing.
the jury accordingly." This-excuse was, i my opinion,
p'operly disposed of by'the j.,dge-beow, but instead of"
stating at length why I consider the alleged apprehension of cajture by the Algertnes as furnishing no
justification forthin ddty ,it is sufficient to say that I
entirely concur, not oily-m the opinion which has already been delivered on this point, but m the whole of
the reasintg on whnch it is 'founded.
STORY, . concurredwith

Judge Livingston.

SUPREkVE COUTRT ti. S.
OL

v

.zt fAnsumA, Ch. J. My own opinion was that ihe
jury was to find the fact Whethtr there wais danger in

betweeh Ba.celodna ahd. Salou, and that they
mvs. co. ought to have been instricted that if there was danger
it j"ustified the del9 y, otherwise notd
kARYiD.pikssing

iFi .
Feb.
240th.

BRIG CAROLIN.Eo WILLIAM BROADFOOT,
CiAIMANT,
V6
THE UNITED STATES.

ERlRlfit to the Circuit Court for tie dishict of
South Cardlina, in a case bofseizitre for violation of the
fnt

A libel

for

in *JLL

a..
O

Vln
4of.,

f;

+1t
L

1r
OY

4-r un
UC

a fqrreiture
must be PrrThe libel was in the words followig tieular and
e rtain m all
the material
"At a special district Court for South
cLI
rSasiee
district., Be it remembered, That on the
1h

Carolina
day

tute the offence.informal
An
libel or nfer.

of
in the year of our Lord tine thousand eight
hundred
and
tle United States of America, by
..

Cour.

United States, by their proper officers of tho customs,
did cause to be seized, arrested and secured, a certain
brig or vessel, called the Caroline§ her tackle9 furniture,
apparel and other appurtenances, as forfeited to them,
the said United States, for that the said brig or'vessel
since the twenty-second day of Mtrh,ib791p was built,
fitted, cquipped loaded, or otherwise prepared within
a port or place of the said Utiited States, or caused to
sail from a port or place of the said United States, by f
citizen or citizens of the said United States, or a foreigner, or other persons coming into, or residing in the
same, either as master, factor, or owner of the said brig
or vessel for the purpose of carrying on trade or traffic
in slaves to a foreign country, and also for that the
said brig or vessel since the day and year last afore-

Thomas Parker, thir attorney fur the district aforemationmrem,
ma e a'- said, came here irto Court and gave ThQmas Bee, esq.
maeded b
judge of the said Couk't to understaiid and i- informed
leave of
that on the
day of
theyj 'the. said

