GM=96-CtOUPlfTV

~sv
10.
SACoV.

6

S.

then.donp away, for if such an intention at any time
existed, it would be difficult-to assign to th master or
owner A motive for postponing the executiQn of it until
after the arrival of the vessel at her port of discharg,,
It is, therefore, scarcely to be conceived that such a
case was in the contemplation of the legislature.
It is true that this vessel had not arrived at Tarmouth, where her cargo was to be landed, at the time
bf the seizure. But it is sufficieit, in the opinion of the
Conrt, that she had arrived at the port to which she
wds destined, and had received a permit to land. The
voyke was as much at an end in relation to the question as ifshe had arrived within 100 yards of the wharf
at Yarmouth. It is, therefore,- the unaninoud opinion
bf tins Court that there Is no error in the opinion of the
Court below on the constructiongiven by that Court, of
the above statute.
Other exceptions were taken, in the courseof1 the tnal
of this cause, to the opinion of the Court below on rejecting certain evidence offered by the Appellant. But
this Court has no authority, under the law which aitthorizes this appeal, to notice any error except such as
appears on the face of the record and immediately respects the questions of validity of the constitution, treaties, statutes, commissiohsj or authorities in dispute.
The opinions of the' Court below, in relation to the
evidence offred by the Appellant, even if erroneous,
which we neither affirm noy deny, have nothing to do
with the construction of any statute 'of the United
States, and therefore they cannot he regarded by this
Court.
Judginenf affirned.

TIORNTON v. CARSON

sis.
F 4.

23d.

_____

,

.Absent....:roin, 1.
An aw rd is

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the dlstri

not iVid be
cause it i ..Columbia,

sitting at Washington.

df

FEBRUARY TERM 48is.
T

gwO actions of debt, commenced at law by Carson THOR1.
TON
against. Thornton, upon two bonds for the payment of
V.
money, were-referred,, by consent under a rule. of Court
to;arbitrators,,'wlo awarded that the first action should cARsoN.
-f be mawrked and- conszdered, settled, and that the other
alterna.
" also shouldbe marked and coazsdered itled, provded,vee
tive, and con.
"that the Defendant, Thornton, in conjunction with the ungent, nor
(, trustees of the, gold.niine. company of Iorth Carolina, because one
of the alter.

"should convey and secure by a deed and assurance natives reffilegally 'executed, with proper and usual covenants, qwresthcyarty to do an act
tint. John K. Carson, his heirs and assigns, for the in conjunction
"benefit of the said John, and the heirs of Thomas Car- with

others,

parties t.
"son, deceased,-on or before the first day of January, not
the award, ant
0 1811, oie eleventh part of all the minerals and mineover -Ohom ie

" that might thereafter be found upon a tract of laud, his no contral
k'in the county of Montgomery, and state of North Car",olna, which by'deeds bearing date the 5th of Fecem6 ber, 1805, was conyeyed by the said John K. Carson,
ff to the said William Thornton, and by the said WiIliam Thornton, to the said trustees ot hbe gold-mine
" company, and that if such conveyance and assurance
#.'should not be made on or before the said ist of Janu.i ary, 1811," then in the first suit, judgment should be
entered up by the Court for the Plaintiff, (Carsonj
(or the penalty of the bond, to be-released on the payrent of a certain sum expressed on the award, and
also in the second suit, judgment should be entered for
the Plaintiff, for the. penalty of the bond to be released
on the payment of another sum also expressed in the
award, and that upon receiving such conveyance and
assurance, Carson should convey to Thornton five
shares in the gold-mine company, of Wqrth Carolina,
which Carson' had subscribed for on tfb ist of April,
1806.
Exceptions were taken to this award, ist. because itIs not final; 2d. because it is uncertain. Sd. because
it is unreasonable. 4th. because it is contingent and
conditional. 5th. because it is against law, and 6th.
because it is no award.
Bfut the Court below over-ruled the exceptions and
rendered judgment for the amount of the money melqtioned in the iward,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THORNi-

To4r
T0.
CARsoNr.

The Defendant, Thornton, brought his writ of error,
and his counsel insisted upon the following errors.
i. That ih-a award wap not final or certain, -because
its inal determination depends on a contingency, and
would be an award in favor of the Plaintiff in one event,
and in favor of the Defendant in another. It was also
uncertain; because-there was no Way of ascertaning
whether the act to be done by the Plaintiff in error,
and the other persons, was or was not done, nor whether the conveyances were made as directed, nor whether they were " proper and sufficient," nor how, nor
by whom'the eptry was to be made in the suit, and the
arbitrators could -neither resqrve this to be deterfiiined
by themselves, nor leave it to be done' by.others.
It was also uncertal, because it is not stated 'when
the entry ("6 settled") was to be made in the suit in the
one event, nor the judgment for the Plaintiff in the
other.
2. The award was bad because it required the Plaintiff in error to do-what was manifestly out of his power,. viz to get other persons to join him in executing
a deed, which, if not impossible, was at least unreasonable.

It was also unreasonable, because it required a deed
to be made by the Plaintiff in error, who is stated to
have no title nor interestin the thing to be conveyed,
and because it only required that the deed should be
made, not that it should be delivered, so that the same
would not have been binding upon the Defendant in
,Error, and therefore the award being uncertain, unreasonable and inconclusive as to one party, was to be
so considered as to both. And
3. Thafthe award was repugnant and void, being at
first in favor of the Plaintiff in error, and determining
that the suit should be entered ,"settled," and afterwards
awarding that a judgment should be entered for the
Defendant in error, upon a certain contingency.
The ease was submitted without argument, Monszyz,

FEBRUARY TER I 1819.
for thie Defendant in error, having cited Eya on awards, THOIM137, and 12, Mod. 586, Lee-v. .1ukns.
WASHMNGTOK,

.delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows
This is a writ of error to a judgment ofthe Circuit
Court for the district of Columbia.
Under a rule vhich was served upon the Plaintiff in
error torshow cause, during theterm at which the rule
was made, why judgment should not be entered on the
award, he appeared -andassigned for cause, that the
said award was'ntncertatn,not final, unreamonable, conditional, and 'yozd.
These objections are strictly techrncal,-and-referrable
solely to defects supposed to appear on the face of the
award, and do not aim to impeach it for any. one of the
causes which the law of Ma,yland, passed in October,
1778, ch. 21, dedlares to -be sufficient for setting as:de
an award.
This Court, not meaning to decide whether any and
what other objections than those stated in the statute of
Afarylar.., may he alleged against entering judgment
upon awards made under orders of reference, will pro-ceed to consider those whch were stated in this case.
It is contended that this award is not final or certain,
because it depends ov a contingency, and will be an
award in favor of the-Plaintiff in one event, and in favor'of the Defendant in another. Thr's C'buft does not
so understand the effect of this award. It is clearly in
favor of the Defendant in error, in either event contemplated by the referees. The Plaintiff is required,
in conjunction with certain other persons, to convey to
the Defendant, for the benefit of himself andthe heirs
of .jomasCarson, on or before a fixed day, certain
property specified in- the award, or to pay :the amS unt
of th&itwo bonds in suit. If he made the conveyance,
then tlhreferees have awarded certain property -to the
Defendrijt, and if he failed to do this, judgment xas to
be entered against him, for the amognt of those bonds.
•The Defendant had hiselection to do either, and upon

'V.
cARsoN'.

-

rxor=Tow
V.
cmtom.
*

satisfying the Court, at the time he was required to
show -cause why judgment should not be entered on thp
award, that he had made such a conveyance as the
award prescribe4, the Court ought to have or4ere the
suits to have been entered' settled."
Uf the.3raititiff had made the conveyance, and -the
Defendant, who, upon that act bemgdone, was required by the award to transfer five shares in the gold-mine
tomp~any, of North Carolina to the Plaintiff, had 43iled
to do so, the Court ought to have Qrdered the suits to
bje entered sc settled."

But the Piaintiff, having failed

t.perfol'm the act, rpon 'Nwich alone .this transfer wir
id-bemade amd the suits were to be entered "se11ked,'
- became-liable to pay the sums awarded by the referees
as'the equivalent for the property to be conveyed, and
consequently tlm Court was -rightm entering the judgment fogbthe sums -awarded.
There is no.uncertainty in all this, or at least none
which might not be rehdered certain by the act. of the
Plaintiff in conformity with the award, qnd which must
not necessarily be certain at the time'the Court was to
Pender juugment on the award.,
The-plain meaning of the award is that the Plauintif
was to pay the amount of~the bonds in suit, unless, by
a certain day, he made a conveyance to the Defendant
of the property described in the award, in which latter
event he was to -receive from the, Defendant, a transfer
of .five shares in the gold-mine company. and to be discharged from the payment of the moniy. by a entry
to that effect, to be made in the suits retrred. But if
he refused to make the conveyance, then jud.gment tof
be entered against him for the amount of the bonds in
suit. M ieenititled himself to this entry in his favor,
by performing theother branch of the alternative, and
the Defendaet failed- to perform his part of the award,
then the Defendant.could receive no benefit from the
award, and the suits were to be entered 6settled."
Whether the conveyance from .the Plaintiff, and' the
transfer by the Defendant, were made in due form, were
questions proper for the consideration of the Court.
The award is said to be uncertawn, because the namea

FEBRUARY TERM

8 s.

of the trustees who are to join in the conveyance, and vroRrTOM
of the heirs of Thomas Carson, are not stated, nor does
V.
the award declare who is to prepare and tender the
deed. These, too. were questions proper for the con- CARsoN.
4
sideration of the Court below, but form no objections ---to the award. It does not appear from the record that.
the Defendant had refused or failed to do every thing.
which the law required him to perform to entitle him to
the judgment of the Court, and we must therefore prestme that no delinquency on'ispart was shown by the
Plaintiff, that if it was necessary for him to prepare
and tender the deed such as the law required, he did so
to the satisfaction of the Court. If lie failed. to do that
which would warrant the Court in entering judgment
on the award, it was the duty of the Plaintiff to have
shown tis as cause against entering the judgment, and
to have spread all the facts upon the record, which
might enable. this Court to decide whether the Court
below acted correctly or not.
The award is said to be uureasonole because it requires the Plaintiff to get other persons to join in the
conveyance to the Defendant which he may not be able
to do. But surely if the Plaintiff was bbund to pay the
'bolids in suit, or to convey a good title to certain property, which title would. not he valid in the opinion of
tie referees, unless other persons joined in the conveyance, lie cannot surely complain that he is ordered to
pay the money, unless he executes such a deed as will
pass a good title. It is his misfortune if he cannot
make the title, but it is no reason why, uk that event he.
should not pay the money
There are other causes assigned why the award is
unreasonable, but as the facts.to prove it unreasonable
do not appear in the record, they cannot be noticed by
the Court, even if such objections.would. in law. be sufficient to set aside the award.
Judgment qffirmed -withcosts.

VOL, VII.

