FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
without argument.
Defendant.

There was no appearance for the

m.'KL'

Iv.
VOOIIHIES.

.March i1t .... Jll the Judges being present,
TODD, J.stated the opinion of the Court to be, that
the State Court had no jurisdiction to enjoin a judgment of the Circuit Court pf the United States, and
that. the Court below should be ordered to issue the
writ of aberefacs.

BEATTY v. THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
E!_

1812.
March

1sth

Preent....qll the Judges.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district OfAfinalaccount

Columbia, sitting in Washington.

settled by an
admlnistratoL.

wtli the Or-

This wa$ an action of debt brought at the instance phan's Court,

is not
concluand for the use of Thomas Corcoran
evidence
• against Thomas sive
Beatty upon the administration bond of Mrs. Doyle, I hsfavorup

administratrix, with the will annexed, of Alexander

is
&- Le

Doyle. 'The Defendant was one of her iritieg in that v~tavit vlin
bond. The Defendant after oye pleaded a special
performance of every item in the condition of.the bond;
To which the Plaintiff replied a judgment de ionis testatons obtained by him, in May, 1799, against the admnnistratrix, fieri facias upon that judgment and return of
nulla bona. The replication also avers that the' adaumstratrixhadinherhands, atthe time ofthe indi mentggaodi
of her testator sufficient to satisfy the deitibut ti it sue
-wastei!them. The Defendant took igsa upnii the de,vastavit.
Upon the trial of this issue, the Defewlant below took
a bill of excepsions which stated-that the Plaintiff offered in evidence the record of the judgment in May
1799, against the admimstratrix for 357 dollars, and
the fieri facias returned nulla boa. And also the 7n-entory which she had .exhibited to the orphans Court of
Montgomery county, in Maryland, in ,anuary, 1795.
VOL. VII,
37

SUPREME COURrP U. S.
VETATTY

v.
STATI 01
]VIARY'D.

amountingro 1.3701 2 7 Maryland carrency, o'whibl
2001. is stated in the inventory to be cash. Als6 an account of the administratrix with the dst~te of her testator, reixdered by her to the Orphan's Cburt upon oath on
the 17th of August, 1799, in which she charges herself
with the sum of 10851. ny addition to the former inventory, making in the whole 47861. and claims credit for
sumn paid to otlhr creditorn whose claims'were not entitled to peeference, anmounting to 35661.,--laving a
balance still in her hands of 12201. equal to 325S dollars,
and also a second account rendered -by her upon oath
to the Orphan's Court in November, 1799, chargiig
herself 'with. a further sum of assets to the -amount of
1.163 15 5 in addition to the former balance and clpuning credit for 1.607 16 11 paid to sundry creditors
not entitled to preference, and still leaving a badance; of
761. in her hands to be administered. The Defendant
llien offered in evidence, . third account rendered by the
administratrix to the Orphan's Court in 1801, in which
the charges hmerselfwith the former'balance of 761. and
clhmis allowance for payments and commissions to the
amount of 1-031. leaving a balance in her favor of 171.
To tlfis account, 'as well as to the two former, was annexed a certificate from the registep of wills, that the
admninistratrix made oath on the ]Eolv Evangels of Alimightv God, that the acr-ount was just. and true as it
stood stated, 4nd that she had bonafide paid or,secured
to be paid the several suns for which she claimed an
alldwance 'rtl)hich after due exannization passed Iy order
of Court."
This account was offered as conclusive evidence for
the Defendant on the issue. But the Court instructed
the .iry that ft was .not conclusive evidence in favor of
the Defendant upon that issue, and further at tye fequest of the Plaintiff's counsel, instructed the jury that
the said record of the judgment, the inventory and the
two accounts of the adninistratrix offered in evidence
on the part of the Plamiffiwere conclusive evidence in
his favor to prove the devastaTit on the part of the adliinistratrix, to the amount of the Plamtit's claim to
ghmich instructions of the Court the Defendant excepted, aid the verdict and judgment being against hiir
!4e brought hWs writ of xrror,

FE BRUARY TERM iP*
F S. KEY, for'tl, Flanitififn error
The question is whetlier the final settlement -of ttie
administration account is conclusive-

BEATTY
'.

STATE OF

If the Court has a power to pass. suelx an account-if
it be a Court of competent jurisdictin, its sentence is
of
oonclusive 'upon every other Court. The, sentence
the ecclesiastical Court is conclugve in England, as to
1eake's Law of 1iv.
within its jurisdiction.
all
760---, T. R. 1.25,
76, 78.,.6rabkr,
69, matters
The orler of the. Court, settling the account is adudicud, not a jainisterial act.
Had the Orphan's Court power. to settle and adjlst
the account?
By the act, of assembly of Maryland, of February,
1777, c. 8, which wAs in force At the time these letters
of administration were granted, the Orphaii's Courts
had all the jurisdiction and authority which the com1mussary general had before.
By the act of 1715, c. 39. sect. 2, the commissary
general was to proceed according to the laws of Eng3
y
,land,and to hold his Court once dvery two months. 1
adminand
executors
the 3d section, he was to call- all
istrators to exhibit inventori( within three months,
and render accounts "withintwelve months next after adby
ministration committed, and to enforce obedience
attachment for contempt. By the 7th and i8th sections,
lie is to transmit an account of the distributioni to the
County Courts. By the 27th 'section there was an appeal to the Governor from the sentence of the qomnissary general.
By the 31th section, the deputy commissaries had
as
power to pass, audit anul allow all such accounts
esmen's
dead
to
relating
it
should come before them
contates," not exceeding 501. provided there were no
interany
claiming
troversy thereovi, but.if any person
est in such estates should object to any articles of the
account, the deputy commissary was to send it, with
all papers, &c. to the commissary general. "before

MR

.

284

SUPREME COURT. U S.

uhom all parties are to appear and defend their snterest."
By the 40th section, the prerogative Court (winch was
STATE OF the commissary general's Court) had like authority in
zu.tiry'D. enforcing obedience to its process, orders, interlocutory
sentences and decrees, as the high Court of Chancery
had.
BEATTX

v.

By the act of I718, c 5, the person entitled to the
residue of an estate may, after 12 months from the date
of the letters of administration, sue ;,fop such residuary
"part as shall appear to be due by such accounts as
"shall then be made up."
This jurisdiction over accounts appears also in the
practice of the commissary's Court, as stated in the
deputy commnissary's guzde, p. 45 to 49, which shows, also
that the settlement of the account by that Court was always holden to be conclusive upon the County Courts.
In the appendix p. 198, ig the form of a spucial commission to pass an account. It appears also that all
the vouchers are to be surrendered and filed upon
passing the account. This shows that it must be conclusive, for nothing could be more unjust than to oblige
A-man to be always ready to account and to support
his account, after taking from him all his vouchers.
DUvALL, J.

The account was pnly binding upon the representatives of the estate, the dfitributees, and they might still
open it in the general Court. But the creditors are
no parties'to the settlement of the account, and cannot
bo bound by it.
There can be no .doubt tlhat the judgment against the
administratrix, the inventory and two first accounts
were conclusive evidence of a devastavzt.
fAusnALL, Ch. J. HL
believe that is the law throughout the United States.
The Court is unanimously of opinion that the settlement ofthe account by the Orphan's Court is notcoaclusive evidence for theefendant upon the issue joined.
Tudgmnent qfliined.

