FEBRUARY TERM M8i2.

1o7

the cargo, and by Gates.for the residue of the cargo, sLooP
It appearsi then, both from the libel and claim, that a AcTIvB
V.
part of the cargo did " belong, bona fide, to a person
other than the master, owner or mariners of the ship U.sTATES.
or vessel." This part of the cargo comes completely
within that part of the description which relates to .the
ownership of the property But the goods on board
being liable to no duty, the duties could not have been
previously paid or secured..
'li'e ourt considers this section as manifesting a
clear intention in the legislature to exempt from forfeiture.a cargo not belonging to the owner, master or
mariners, provided that cargo was not liable to duties.
Whether thins condition was produced by a previous
paynent of duties, orby a perfect exemption from duties, must be immaterial. Duties cannot be paid or sesured, according to law, on goods not liable, by law, to
duty. The legislature must be.uuderstood, when saying cc upon winch the duties have been previously paid
or secured according to law," to mean, "cupon wnch
the duties, if anuy, have been previously paid," &c.
It is "theopinion of the court, that the sentence of the
Circuit Court be reversed as to so much of tfie cargo of
the sloop Active as'is claimed as the property of
Gates, and be affirmed as to the vessel and ,the residue
of the cargo.
And it is directed to be certified that therb was
probable cause of seizure.

HAWTHORNE, CLAIMANT
OF THE BRIG CLARISSA CLAIBORNE
V.

.Feb.

20t$.

THE UNITED STATES.
.plesent....611 the Judges.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the District This C6urt

Court, at New Orleans, condemning the Brg Clarissa-MngatI
take new eviClaiborne, for violatiug a law of the United States.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RAW-

,wuorNo

HAzI,
Moved for a certiorarn upon a suggestion of
, d-minution of the record, in not sending up the deftosi-

tions of the witnesseses.

LAMN.'T.
O1 BRIG

ciARIssA.
MAPR-suA,
CA.
CLAIing the witnesses
BORN E nOo.

.- What prevents you from produchere$ or taking their depositions de

Vo.

HARE, Suggested a doubt, whether cases for viola.
tion of the Embargo, are cases of admiralty, or of prize

U.STATES.

denee to bein jurisdiction.
here,

used

a case of Ad.iraly Juris.

tion.

However, on a subsequent day he moved -foe, and obtamned a commsion to take the depositions of witnesses
at New Orleans, to beused on the trial in this Court, at
.the next term.
A like commission was granted in the case of Wfiliams
and irmroyd, at this term.

THE UTITED STATES
V.

"9812°

JOHN G0.0DWIN.

T IS was an action of debt brought originally in the
District Court, for the Ditrit of ]?ennsylvania, by the
U3nited States, against John Goodwm, for 15.000 dolCourt of thG
Wited Statl lrs, as a penalty for not eiltering goods agreeably to the
to reverse tie prime cost, at the place of exportation, with intent to deiut'o7 fraud tlhreveue. The judgment of the District Court,
m a civi ac- which was in f4vor of the United States, was, upon a
tion, whict fla writ of Error, reversed in the Circuit Court , and'therebeen carried
u' to the Cir- upon the United States sued oilt the present writ of Ercult eourt
rQr to this Court.
o rit ofer.

rorlies to the

Supreme,

from the Dis.
*iet Court, by

writ of error.

A doubt having been suggested, whether tins Court
could take jurisdiction by writ of Error, in a civil action, which had been carried up by writ of Error,from
the District Court td" the Circuit Court, that question
was submitted to this G qurt without argument.

