FEBRUARY TERM i813.
atate officers in the execution of the process of their
Courts, ana is altogether inoperative upon the officers
of.the United States, in the execution of the mandates
whwli issue to them. The judgment below must be
reversed, and judgment entered for the Defendant.

PA.MEn

YOUNG AND AL v. BLACK.

1813.

v.
AIt.N.

-

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of if
Columbia.

arch

12tt.

three joint

owners

of a

careo employ
the master of

The suit was brought by Young, Deblois, and Law- the ship to sell
it forilfterward3
them, c
rason, against Black to recover the proceeds
• of the.he
sales of a cargo shipped by the Plaintiffs to the West become iteIndies, on board the brig Active, of which the Defen- rested in the
dant was master, and to whom the cargo was con- sfre of one of
signed.
ers, joint
he cannot,
ownsigned.the
in an action
brought a-

The. Plaintiffs, Young and Deblois, had each an iote- gainst him by
three'iomt
rest of three eighths in the cargo, and tile Plaintiff, Law- the
ownlers
to rerason, the other two eighths. Upon the general issue cover the a.
a verdict and judgment were rendered for the Defen.: mountofsade,
affhisshare
set
ofthatanionat.

daut.

Upon tile issue

At the trial the Plaintiffs took fbur bills of exception.

sit on
theasslmp:
D,,fen.
daiu rosy give
to the admission in evidence of a record 'ievidence the

The ,stwas
of a judgment betwveen the same parties togetler with'fi er of a
heween
parol evidence that it was for the same cause of acttail. ment
the same p'Artics on the

The. 2(d and Sd bills of exceptions were to the admis- saqme cause o
sion of parol proof that the Defendant had an literest action.
It 1s a matter

in Lawrason's two eighths of the cai-go, alter the Plait- of diseretiu
ith a Court
tiffs had shown their written instructions to the Def.,
"', n- whetheritwill
dant with his promise to obry them, his bill of ladinof eompelaparty
to
in
m
de.
the cargo, and his account of sales of i.
iitrrei
dence. toA evide-

The th bill of exceptiozs states the whole evidence murrer to evi.
offered as well by tile llaifiis as by the Dcfendant, dence ought
and that the Plantiffs offered to demur to the whole not
ed toellowwhere the

SUPREM4E CWURT U. S.
YOUNG

v.
BLACK.

evidence. but the Defendant refused to join in demurrep
and the Court refused to compel him to join.
E. I. LEE, for the Platntiffs sit error

party demurring refuses to
1.
admit the facts
which the o- was

The record mentioned i the first bill of exceptions
not admissible evidence, because it was for a difThe former action was for a
ther side at- ferent cause of action.
tempts to
prove; Por breach.,of orders, and founded upon a disavowal of the
_condudt of the Defendant, but the present action afwhere he
fers contiadictory evidence, firms hi conduct and seeks for payment of the balance
or attempts to due upon his account of sales.
establish in-

consistent pro-

2. The Court ought not to have permitted the Defendant to use parol evidence to contradict the written
fusatlfaCourt documents which-proved the property of the cargo to be
to compel a in the Plaintiffs.
pesitioss.
Quere, whether the re-

psrty to join in
a dernrrer to
3. The
evidence, can
be tO JOin n
m any case erfor
assigned

Orr

Court ought to have compelled the Defendant
the demurrer. 3 Bi. Gor. 372, 373. ± Wash.
i5Q, 220. 2 Gall. 55, 571. 3 Tucker's Blackstone, 372,
7vote.
SwANN, conutra.
The record and parol evidence were properly admitted, and the jury were to decide. whether it was for the
same cause of action as the present.
As to the demurrer it does not appear that the
whole evidence was stated. The Defendant was not
bound by any rule of law to join in the demurrer, nor
was the Court bound to compel him. It was a matter
entirely within the discretion of the Court.
March 16th....STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the
Courl as follows
The present action was brought by the Plaintiffs in
error as joint owners of the brig Active and cargo to
compel the Defendant who was master of the said brig
to account for the proceeds of said cargo, which
was sold during a voyage to the West Ipdies. Young
owned three eighths, Deblois three eighths, and Lawrason two eighths of the cargo.

J.FEBRUARY TERM i813.

567

At the trial upon the general issue several exceptions
were taken by the Plaintiffs, which have been argued,
and we are now to pronounce our decision respecting
their validity.
The Defendant offered in evidence a. record of a
former suit between the same parties, in which judgment was rendered for the Defendant, supported by
parol proof that the former suit was for the same cause
of action as the present suit. The Plaintiffs denied its
admissibility under the general issue, and we are all of
opinion that the objection cannot be supported.
It has been long since established that under zno assiumpSit the Defendant may give in evidence any thing
which shows that no debt was due at the time when the.
action was commenced, whether it arise from an inherent defect in the original promise or a subsequent discharge and satisfaction. And the precise point now in
controversy has been adjudged to be completely within
the rule. If the former judgment had been for the
Plaintiff, there would be no doubt that it would have
extinguished the demand, and it is not less conclusive
because it was for the Defendent. The controversy had
passed in. rem judicatam, and the identity of the causes
of action being once establishedj the law would not suffer them again to be drawn into question.
The second exception was taken to the decision of
the Court admitting evidence to show that the Defendant had a subinterest in that portion of the joint cargo
which belonged to Lawrason-an interest which was
not proved to have been known to or acknowledged by
the other owners. And we are all of opinion that the
Circuit Court erred in admitting that evidence. The
other owners had nothing to do with any private contract between Lawrason and the Defendant. Any right
of retainer which the latter might have against Lawrason could be enforced only in an action against Lawrason himself, but it offered no legal defence to the express contract proved to have been made with all tie
joint ownrs. It might have been contended with as
much propriety that the Defendant was entitled in such
an action to a set off of a separate debt due from either
qf the owners. Nor is there any equit in 'such a claim

YoUNG
T.
siLAcKi

SUPRENiE COURT V. S.
against the Plaintifls. As joint owners they had a lien
upon the proceeds for the general ,balance between
BLACK. them, and had a right to havo them applied in the first
instance in discharge of the joint debts. Whither,-after
....
a fin.1 settlement of the accounts of the voyage, any thing
would have beep due to Lawrason does, not appear; and
yet this evidence, admitted as it was, would have applied the general property to discharge his private contracts, although the joint account might have finally
turned out ,igainst him. We hold it a sound rule of
law, that a joint contract can never be defeated by the
mere private.contract of an individual of the concern,
to whom the other parties bave confided no authority
for this purpose. Our opinion on this exception disposes also of the third,'which is taken to parol evidence
offered to show- the acknowledgment of Lawrason of the
subinterest of the Defendant.
YOUNG

T.

The last exception is of a novel character. The
Plaintiffs upon the whole eviden e offered to demur,
and prayed the Court t: compel the D.'fendant to join
in the demurrer. The Court refused to do tins, and in
our opinion their refusal was perfectly correct.
A demurrer to. evidence is an unusual proceeding,
and is allowed or denied by the Court in the exercise of
a sound discretion under all the circumstances of the
case. The party demurring is bound to admit as true,
not only all the facts proved by the evidence introduced
by the other party, but also all the facts which that evidence legally may conduce to prove. It follows that it
onght never to be adiitte:d where the party demurr ng
reifses to admit the facts which the other side attempts
to Iprove, an( it would be as little justifiable where lie
offers contradictory evidence, or attempts to establish
inconsistent propositions.
In the present case the
Pla.nitiffis admit that they dented the whole detence of
the Defendant, and offered evidence to contradict the
evidence by which that defence was attempted to be supported. There would therefore have been the- most
manifest impropriety in acceding to the prayer of the
Plaintiffs.
The Court give no opinion whether a refusal to compel a party to join in a demurrer to evidence can in any
case be assigned for .error.

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
On the whole, for the error of the Circuit Court in YouNG
admitting the evidence disclosed under the second and
Iv.
third exceptions, thojudgment nmust be reversed and the BlLACK.
cause remanded with directions to award a cenurefacias
de -novo.
LIvINGSToN, -T.
I concur with this Court in reversing the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and for the error assigned in the
second exception. But l.gve no opinion on the refusal
of that Court to compel the D.'fendant to join in the demurrer to evidence which was offered by the Plaintiis,
not because I have any doubt of the correctness of the.
decLsion which a majority of the judges have formed on
that point, but because I entertain a very strong conviction, and think it.my duLy to express it, that such
refusal can never be the subject of revision upon a writ
of error-the contrary of which seems to be implied by
the opinion just read. Such applications must ever be
made to the discretion of the Court which tries the
cause, and such Court will generally be in a situation
to decide more correctly, having all the circumstances
of the case before it, than an appellate tribunal., and if
it should commit a mistake in the exercise of its mere
discretion in refusing to compel a party tQ join in a de
murrer to evidence, or in refusing to grant a new trial,
or in refusing to continue a cause, or in any other matter resting solely in discretion, I have no hesitation in
saying that less mischief and injury Nill aiise from
obliging paties now and then to submit to such inconveniencies. than to open a door to the endless litigatiom
winch will be produced by permittingappeals in all the
variety of cas.s of this nature which must necessarily
arise in the progress of every contested action, and
which in Great Britain have never yet been assigned
for error.
Jon~soN, J. said lie did not wish it to be understood
that a writ of error would lie to a decision within the
discretion of the Court below.

STORY, .1.
said he did not mean to be understood, in
delivering the opinion of the Court. as statiig that the
refusal to compel a party to join in demurrer to evVOL. VII.
73

SUPREME COURT U. S.
dence was a ground for a writ of error.

iouNG

T.
BLIACK.

MARsuAL, Ch. J. On that point the Court has not
given any opinion. The former opinions of this Court
on the subject of discretion, &c. are. to be considered as
law, but they are not to be extended further.

THE SCHOCNER ANNE
v

i8iS.
March

He concurred

in opinion with judge Livingston.

.,T E, UNITED STATES.

ith.

.0bsent....ToDD, 3.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the CirCourt for the district of South Carolina, condemnibr ing the schooner Anne for violation of the non-intersub- course law of March i, t809. § 6, Tol. 9, p. 21i7

cuit
mayberCl;
Amlibel
amended.aftu
reversal

want of
stantial averments.
C. LEE, for the .Xipellant.
A lib must
aver secially
all thi racts
1. The libel in tins case is
which J.c,nusoftutea
a sentence of condemnation.
ten,

too imperfect to warrant

It does not state what

Thetvd-nter- kind of goods were taken en board, it merely says cercourse act

oftani articles prohnbited by law.

A..arch 1,1809

v.19 in t'o.ce
between the

,

If they were French

goods it was lawful to take them on board.

This is a

penal prosecution, and this Court has decided at this
larch, term in the case of the l1oppet (ante p. 389.) that the

2d of
1sl, by virtue

offence must be specially set forth in the libel. The
place of lading is not statei, nor the time, so that it
orolmation of Nov. mav be known whether the act was done while the law
was in for'e. It does not stat. whether the goods were
2d, 1810.
put on board with the knowledge of the owner,, or with
the knowledge of the master, but without naming either
the master or the owner, it says, ri the alternative, that
the goods were put oi board with The knowledge of the
owner or master. The evidence cannot cure the defects
of the libel.
24. When these goods were put on board (between the
2d of February and the 2d of March, 18i) the act of

