FEBRUARY TERM 1812,

271
1812.

HEZEKIAH WOOD
IV.

3arch

9th.

JOHN DAVIS Axm OTHEW.

1resent....Jt1l the Judges.
and
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district Of A verdict
tbt
judgment
Columbia, sitting at Washington.
the mothm
vas born free

The Defendants in error, John Davs and othert, is not conciafreedom
of theevidence
,were children of Susan Darzs, a mulatto wonian, who sive
of her ehila
suit
which
m
her
freedom
for
a
judgment
had obtained
dren-unless
she had brought against Caleb Swam, to whom she had between
the
samepartles
been sold by Wood the Plaintiff in error.
or prveq.

The petition of the children stated that their mother
Susan .]?azs,had obtained a judgment for her freedom
.upon the ground that shewas born free. The issue was
joined upon the question whether the petitioners w'ere
entitled to theirf'eedom.
Upon the trial of this issue, in the Court -below, the
Plaintiff in error, Mood, tendered a bill of exceptions
which stated that it was admitted that the petitioners
were the children of susai DaBas, and they produced.
the record of the judgment in favor of their mother'Szisan Da-vs against Caleb Swann, (in which' case her
petition stated that she was- born free, being descended
from a white woman, and the issue joined was-upou
the question whether she was free or a slave.) And it
was admitted that Susan Davis had been sold by Wook
.to Swann before the judgment, whereupon the petitioners,b~ their counsel, prayed the Court to direct th6jry.
that the record aforesaid and the matters- so admitted
were conolve evwdence for the petitionersza t is cause "
and the Court direqted the jury as prayed' to which direction the Defendant, Wood, excepted. -

V S. KEY, for the Ilatntiff ii error, contended,
I. That Wood -was not a party, n6r privy to, aliy
fis against Swann, and
party, to the suit of SusAn D

SUftREME COURT U. S.
wooD

v.

is, therefore, not concluded by the, judgment in that
case and

DAVIS.

2. That the judgment was only proof, that Susan
Davis was free at the time of the judgment, not that
she was born free, sand therefore it did not appear that
she was free at the time of the birth of the petitioners.
She might have been manumitted after the birth of her
children, and so entitled to her freedom at the time of
the judgment, and yet *the petitioners might remain
slaves. The only issue ever joined in'Maryland (under
the laws of which state this case was 'tried) upon a petition for freedom, is, whether the petitioner be free at
thd time-of issuejoined-not whether she were bornfree2. Harris's Enitrzes, 530 It is immaterial what title
is set out in the petition. The petitioner is not confined
to it, but may, on the trial, show any other title to freedom-the practice in Maryland is merely to state in the
petition that the petitioners is entitled'to treedom and
As holden as aslave. The act of assembly of Maryland,
of 1796, directs thatthejury shall be charged to determine those Allegations in the petition which may be controverted. The only allegation controverted is that the
petitioner isfree.
D uvAL, J. stated that in all the petitions which he
filed in Maryland, in the cases of the Shorters, the Tho.
mases, the Bostons, and many others, he always stated
theiktitle at large, tracing it up to a free white wdman,
and after judgment in those cases, the Courts always
'held, that the subsequent petitioners who claimed under
the same title, were only 'bound to prove theirdescent.
Q. LEE, contra.
The issue in Susai Davis's case is, in fact, whethep
-she was bornfree. And the case of Shelton v. Barbour,
2.Wash. 6-1, shows that the verdict is conclusive as to
all claiming uider the same title. Wood's title .vas the
same as Swanfls-and that of the petitioners tho same
as that of Susan Davis.
F S. KEY, iU reply.
Wood did not claim undertwnn, butSwanii claimed under. Wood. There was no'privity bet~yeen them.

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.
as to the children.

Wood's title to them.

27s,

Swann could do nothing to injure

WOOD
DAflS.

.March 10th ... J11 the udges being present,DAIS
AIARsHALL,

Ch. J. Stated that the opinion of the

Court to be, that teiverdict and judgment in the case
of SusairDavzs against Swam, were not condlusrve evzdeuce in the present case. There was no privity between Swaun and Wood, they were to be considered
as perfectly distinct persons. Wood had a right tq defend his own title, which lie did not derive from Swann.
Judgment reversed.

MORGAN v. REINTZEL.
,,

4i812.

__March

9th

Present..... 11the Judges.
ERROR-to the ircuit Court for the district of
Columbia sitting in Washington, in an action of as-in a suit asumpsit brought by &etntzel against Olorgan upon a gainst the ma-

promissory, note made by MTorgan payable to ieintuzel, ker of a proor order.
byanidorser
'who l~as been

The declaration contained three counts 1st. Upon obliged to take
the promissory note in the usual form under the statute produece
Plaitiff must
the
of.8nne-; 2d. For money paid, laid out, and expended, note upon the
and 3d. The following special count, viz.

trial.
Thethepayment
of
money

-And whereas also afterwards, to wit, on," &c. C the by the tidorsaid
William Morgan, accordingto the custom and usage tes4,is
ser aftera good
pro.
of 7erchants made his certain note i Writing,
corn-eonsidedtion
monly called a promissory note, his own proper hand sit
the part
for onanassump.
being thereto subscribed, bearing date on the day and

year aforesaid, (August 9th, 1809) by which said note
the said 'William, Morgan, sixty days after the date

of the

makert-

to pay the amount of the

note with costs
thereof, promised to pay to the said Anthony Reintzel, ofrprotest.

or order, five hundred dollars, without offsett, value remaker of
promissory
toa The
ceivet, and then and there delivered, the said note
VOL. V .
36

note, payabl

