SUPREME COURT U. S.
scnooNF.R All that is necessary in. the libel 'is to state, generally,
A.NNE
the grounds on 'which the forfeiture is claimed. By rev.
ferring to the law it is made certain. It is clear, by

T.STATPES.

ilit terms of the law alluded to in the libel, that the

goods must have been of British growth or manufacture, and such was the proof in the case.

The doctrines relative to indictments at common 'law
do not apply to the case.
.areh 16th....MARsHAL , ch. J.

The'sentence of the Circuit Court, in this case must
be reversed for the 'defects in the libel, for the'reasons
stated in the case of the Iloppet.
Sentelice reversed, and the cause remanded -with leave
to amend the, libel.

18i3.
Mdarch

THE UNITED STATES

16th.

T.

JANUARY AND PATTERSON.

.Aibsent....ToDD,3.
When 'a collect-'r of reAtenue has

-

ven twit i.onds
for his official

ERROR to 'the Circuit Court for the district of

ucky
Kentcky

conduct at dof
This case was submitted to the Court
ferent periods ,ment, and

and with ditfrentsureties

Wrom.e by

the bupervwsor
to apply hws
payments ex-

clusveiytothc'

without argu-

DuvAIm, 3. delivered the opinion of the Court as

follows

In this cause the opinion of the Court is required on
a single point. The facts are'these
of the pa)?The supervisor of.the revenue, fr tle distrit of
ments were
tor money col- Ohio, in due form of law appointed John Arthur collecdischarge of
the first bond,
although some

FEBRUARY TERM 1s.
tor of the.revenue for the first division of the first sur- U. STAT.s
T.
vey of the said district: Arthur, on the 25th day of
August, 1797, together with the Defendants, his sureties,, TANUARY
executed a bond to the United States, in the penalty of & iATS 4000, with condition that Arthur should truly and TERsoN.
faithfully execute and discharge all the duties of said

se,%after
...
• greater
office accolding to law. The rupervisor., for

andpaid
lectedthe
se-

curity to the government,.was in the labit of renewin cond bond was
dqes
the commission, and renewing the office bond, and on gZven,
not eind the
the 23(1 day of Mlarch, 1799. Arthur executed another United States,
bond to the United States with Robert Patterson surety, and does not
to ofan
"that if the amount
application
•
in thi penalty of S 6000 with this condition,
payments
said John Arthur has truly alnd faithfully executed andtt,.
ex- to the first
discharged, and shall continue truly and faithfully to and
bondi
ecute ant discharge, all the duties of said office,.
shall also render and settle his accounts according fto
law, then the obligation to be void," &c.
Arthur proceeded to make the collectionsi anti from
the commencement of his duty to te 30th of June, 1802,
was charged with tie collection of S 30,581 99 1-2.
On the settlement of his account in the year 1803, he was
in arrear S 16,181 15 1-2. and suits were instituted on
dach of the bonds. The pleadings were the same in
both actions. There was a plea of performance to
which the Plaintifrg reply and allege, as a breach of the
condition, that the Defendants have failed to collect and
pay over the -revenue arising within his district, &c.
and are in arrear to the United States,&c. on which issue
was joined. Pending the suits Arthur died, and they
were prosecuted to judgment against the sreties only
The supervisor kept.one general account only against
-the.collector. On the trial the Plaintiflh exhibited, on
their part, the general account between them and the
Defendant on which the balance, as -beforementioned,
is $ 16,181 15 1-2, They also exhibited the balance
appearing to be dtle by terminating the account with the
Period when Arthur gave the second bond at the timehis
first commissiQn was revoked, which wa's 6,4,83 59 1-2.
The Defendants, to support the issue on their part,
offered the. deposition of a witness who proved that
James Morrison, the late supervisor of the revenue, in-

formed hinm that Arthur had paid a sufficient sum to dis-

SUPREM41E COURT U. IS.
u. STATES

Vo.
JAN'UA Y
& PATTERSON.

charge the bond first given, and that what he had' paid
should'be so applied. After reading the deposition, the

Plaintiffs introduced the supervisor himself to contradiet the Defendants witness.

In his testimony he ad-

mits that the payments made by Arthur if applied to

the first bond would discharge it, an' that he might
have frequently told January and others, that the whole
of the bond would be paid off, if the payments made by
Arthur were appropriated exclsively to its discharge;
and that he himself had entertained the opimon that
they ought to be so applied. To repel t!ie testimony
of the supervisor and to support that of their witness,
the Defendants produced a clerk in the supervisor's office, who proved " that the Defendant, January several'
66 times called at the office of the supervisor on the sub-rject of his bond, expressed his uneasiness about its
6c remaining out and his desire to get it up. That the
"6supervisor assured him that Arthur had paid enough to
" discharge that bond, and that he migbt make himself
6ieasy, but refused to give up the bond because he thought
6(that such bonds ought to remain as vouchers in his
" office.
The Plaintiffs, on this state of the case, moved the
Court to instiuct the jury, that the promise of the supervisor as to the application of the 'payments in discharge of the bond, was not of itself an appropriation of the payments, unless it was followed by some
act of appropriation. The Court over-ruled the motion, and, at the instance of the Defendants, instructed
the jury that if they believed that the supervisor had
made the election and promise as proven, it was a de.
flaration of his election how the payments made by
Arthur should be applied, and that whether a formal
entry, in the books of their appropriation, corresponding with that election, were made or not, was immaterial,
and that the jury ought to consider the application as
made.
To the opinion 6f the Court thus given, the Plaintiffs
excepted, and this Court must now decide as to the correctness of the opinion of the Court below.
T~he law, with respect to the application of particular
payments when the debtor owes 'distinct debts, has long

FEBRUARY TERM i81.
since'been settled. The debtor has the option, if he u. STATES
v.
thinks fit to exercise it, and may direct the application
of any particular payment at the time of making it. If.A.uARy
he neglects to make the application, the creditor may & -ATmake it, if he also neglects to apply the payment, the TELSON.
law will make the application.
In this case a majority Of the Court is of opinion
that the rule adopted in ordinary cases is not applicable to a case circumstanced as this is, where the receiver is a public officer not interested in the event of the
suit, and who receives on account of the United States,
where the payments are indiscrimmatoly made, and
where different sureties, under distinct obligations, are
interested. It will be generally admitted that moni-s
arising due, and collected subsequently to tile executibn
of the second bond, cannot be applied to the discharge
of the first bond, without manifest injury to the surety
in the second bond and vzce -versa, justice between the
different sureties can only be done by reference to the
collector's books, and the evidence which they contain
may be supported by parol testimony, if any in the
possession of the parties interested.
The Court is of opinion that the Circuit Court erred
in the opinion given, and that it be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

THE UNITED STATES v. PATTERSON.
March

161M.

Absent....Tonn, J.

THIS was also a writ of' error to the Circuit Court, A debtor of
who
States,
the United
for the district of Kentucky.
puts evidence
debts due
The case was submitted without argument, and Du-'of
to hiuseif, invALt, J4 delivered the opinion of the Court, as follows to the hands

