'SUPREME COURT-U. S.
niGS self, it was certainly right "to allow Lindsay to discre.
IV.
dit the representations made in that letter by she,, ing
L.IND Ay. that Nourse had mimself at another time given a very
different account of the same transaction.
The other opinions of the Court below, to which exceptions were taken, may -be comprised in these two,
'that the Court erred in thinking the Defendants jointly
liable as co-partners, and that the re-sale of the.salt did
not destroy the Plaintiff's right of action. In both these
opinions, this Court concur with the Circuit Court.
It is perhaps as clear a case of joint liability as can
well be conceived. Whatever doubt there might be in.
dependent of the letter of the 4,th of January. 180,
most certainly that letter puts this question at rest.
Every one of the Defendants sign it, and there is now
no escape from the responsibility which thiey all thereby
incurred to tho Plainfiff. Nor %lidLindsay's selling the
salt after he had taken up these bills, destroy his right
of action against the.Defendants. If he has,acted irregularly in so doing, he will be liable, in a proper action,
for the damages which the Defendants have sustained
by such conduct, but such sale could not be pleaded or
set up in bar-to the present suit. Nor willthe Defendant, under the circumstance of this case, be injured
by the sum. which the jury have discounted from Lindsay's demand, if it shall hereafter appear that as much
was not allowed the Defendants on that account as
ought to have been.
TIhe judgment of the Circuit Cour&is affirmed,
with costs.

1813.
MIarch

9th.

M'INTIRE v. WOOD.

Mbsent.... WASHIiGTON, J. and
TODD, X

THIS case came up ftom the Circuit Court for the
district
of Ohio, upon a certificate stating that the
....
Courts or the judges of that Court were. divided in opinion upon the
United States question, Whether that Court had power to issue a writ
to of .,-the of
ossue
,,it
mandamus to the register of ,,land-office-i Ohov
o we

rrt
tehe Circuit

FEBRUARY TERM ii;

56

commanding hun to issue a final certificate of purchase M'iNTim
'V.
to the-Plaintiff for certain lands in tha state
WOOD.

HARPPu, for the Planttfr, referred the Court to the caseof .4rarbury v. Madison, (antevol. :, p. 137)

cined
eoo-

sively to those

ju- cases in which
The constitution of the United States extends the
may be
under it
the
to neeespuy
dicial power to all cases in law and equity arising
exeme of.
the constitution and laws of the United States.
thew juriqdiof 1789, Tol. 1, tion.
act
theAludiciary
of
sect.
11th
the
By
p. 55,) the Circuit Courts have original'cogfii.ance of all
suits of a cevil nature at common law or in equity
where the matter in dispute exceeds the value of 500
dollars, &c. And by the i-Ith sect. of the same act they
have power to issue all writs necessary for the exercise
of their jurisdction, and agreeable to the principles
and usages of law.. Tliis is a suit of a civil nrkture at
common law, and the matter in dispute exceeds the value of 500 dollars. The writ of mandamus is necessary,
to the exercise of thei-jurisdiction, and is agreeable to
tie principles and usages of law; 3 Burr 1266.

The power given by tie constitution is divided b6tween
the Supreme and the Circuit Courts. It has been decided, that the power to issue a mandamus, in such a
case, does not belong to the Suprffne Court; it must,
therefore, be in the Circuit Courts.
.march i5th...JoHNsoN,
the Court as follows

. delivered the opinion of

I am instructed to deliver the opinion of the Court in
this case. It comes up on a division of opinion in the
Circuit Court of Ohio, upon a motion for a mandamus
to the register of the land office, at Marietta, commandin. him to grant final certificates of purchase to the
Plaintiff .for lands, to wInch he supposed himself entitled under the laws of the United States.
This Court is of opinion that the Circuit Court did
not possess the power to issue the mandamus moved for.
Independent of the particular objections winch this
-ase presents fron'its involving a question of frWeehold.65
VOl,. VII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
we are of opinion that the power of the Circuit Cojirt
to issue the writ of mandamus, is confined excluively
to those cases in which it may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction. Had the lith section ef the
judiciary act covered the whole ground of the constitution, therea would be much reason for exercising this
power in many cases wherein some ministerial act is
necessary to the completion of an individual right arising under laws of the United States, and the ikth section of the same act would sanction the issuing of the
writ for such a purpose. But although the judicial
power of the United States extends to cases arising under the laws of the United States, the legislature have
not thought proper to delegate the exercise of that power to its Circuit Courts, except in certain specified
cases. When questions arise under those laws in the
State Courts, and the party who claims a right or privilege under them is unsuccessful, an appeal is given to
the Supreme Court, and this provision the legislature
has thought sufficient at present for all the political purposes intended to be answered by the clause of the constitution, which relates to this subject.

I'INTIRn

T.
WooD.

A case occurred some -ears since in the Circuit Court
of South Carolina, the nototlety of which may apologize
for making an observation upon it here. It was a
mandamus to a collector to grant a clearance, and unquestionably could not have been issued but upon a supposition inconsistelit with the decision in this case. But
that mandamus was issued upon the voluntary submission
of the collector and the district attorney, and in order
lo extihcate themseives from an embarrassment resulting from conflicting duties. Volenti non fit injuna.

LIVINGSTON

c

GILCHRIST

7).

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY

i8i3o
.th.

Feb.

.bsent....LIvINGSTON,
To constitute

.-. and TODD, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Ma

nA. ryland, in an action of covenant upon a policy of insu

representalie.
(i

