SUPREME COURT U. S.
we are of opinion that the power of the Circuit Cojirt
to issue the writ of mandamus, is confined excluively
to those cases in which it may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction. Had the lith section ef the
judiciary act covered the whole ground of the constitution, therea would be much reason for exercising this
power in many cases wherein some ministerial act is
necessary to the completion of an individual right arising under laws of the United States, and the ikth section of the same act would sanction the issuing of the
writ for such a purpose. But although the judicial
power of the United States extends to cases arising under the laws of the United States, the legislature have
not thought proper to delegate the exercise of that power to its Circuit Courts, except in certain specified
cases. When questions arise under those laws in the
State Courts, and the party who claims a right or privilege under them is unsuccessful, an appeal is given to
the Supreme Court, and this provision the legislature
has thought sufficient at present for all the political purposes intended to be answered by the clause of the constitution, which relates to this subject.

I'INTIRn

T.
WooD.

A case occurred some -ears since in the Circuit Court
of South Carolina, the nototlety of which may apologize
for making an observation upon it here. It was a
mandamus to a collector to grant a clearance, and unquestionably could not have been issued but upon a supposition inconsistelit with the decision in this case. But
that mandamus was issued upon the voluntary submission
of the collector and the district attorney, and in order
lo extihcate themseives from an embarrassment resulting from conflicting duties. Volenti non fit injuna.

LIVINGSTON

c

GILCHRIST

7).

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY

i8i3o
.th.

Feb.

.bsent....LIvINGSTON,
To constitute

.-. and TODD, J.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of Ma

nA. ryland, in an action of covenant upon a policy of insu

representalie.
(i

FEBRUARY TERM

8S3.

507

rance (against capture only) upon the cargo of the ship LIVINGSHerkimer, "from Guayaquil, or tier last port of depar- ToN &
ture in South America, to New-York," "'warranted GILA.nerican property, proof of -which to be required vit the CHMIST
-V.
United States only;" " and -warrantedfree from seizure
for illicit trade." The deciaration was on a loss by cap- mAY'n.
INS. Co.
ture.
The case was stated as follows by MARSHALL,
Justice, in delivering the opinion of the Court:

Chi efr

insurance)
there should
bean -affirma.
tion or denial

fact;
subject, having of some
Julian Hernandez Baruso, a Spanish
r . a, allegaa license
obtained from the crown of SpaorSpai
a lcens to mpot ion which
plainly
from Boston into the Spanish province. of Peru anda would
lead the mind
Bueiou Ayres, in South America, in foreign vessels, to the same
certain quantity of goods in the license mentioned, and conclusion.
of half Irli theusage
to take back the proceeds in produce on pa'nment
Inred,rtbe
(Spain
1803,
September,
in
York,
duties, came to New
that
being then at peace with Great Britain,) for the pur- necesavy
certain papers
license,
said
his
under
trade
pose of carrying on
should be bu

board, the con-

of
ecalment
papers
into a con- those
On the 24th of August, 1801, he entered
tract with a certain Anthony Carroll, for the transpor-annof
in Peru, the Plaintiffs
tation of a certain quantity of goods to Lima, carrying
right to recowithout
died
Carroll
license.
under the said
policy.
the contract into full effect.
In general,
concealment

On the 2-5th of .January, 1805, war having then of papers a-a
to
mounts Ofwaro~reachl
broke out. between Great Britain and Spain, B. Livings- rafy.
ton, who had been bound as Carroll's surety for thepersub.
formance of the contract. entered into a new contract ASpanishcame
of the same goods. jectvhn
to the United
with Baruso for the transportation

said
.
.
T . The
The preamble recites the license, and says,
make
to
Lmingston
B.
said
the
with
agreed
Baruso has
an adventure to Lima, on the conditions and stipulations
following, to wit

States in a
imeofpece
etween Sp ainl

and Great
Britain, toa
carry on

tde betweei,
country
this

Spkthe
roince-,
nlslh
followingand
1. In consideration, &c. lie agrees •to the
a
li under trov,,
partnership with the said B. L. in virtue of which the
Spanish li(under
&c.
powers,
his
all
transfers to the satdfirin,
to
"",eatw,.
the
continues
to
n
0
belonging
vessel
license) of sending an American
be embarked reside here
said L. or chartered, in which vessel shallthe
carry or.
fluids and
dollars,
50,000
of
amount
sr
efathattrade
the
,he-,,c-,V
,t,
goods
to be fuirnished and advanced by said L.
vessel to

'SUPREME COURT U. S.
vGs2. Baruso to obtln the necessary papers from the
!T.oN & Spanish consul, and B. L. to pay the duties. Baruso
GILanswerable for detention or confiscation by the Spanish
PHRIST government or vessels on account of any defect of right
W.
to send under said license., &c.
3. L. agrees in foor months to embark the goods on
bopd a vessel to"Lima, to proceed thither, and to rewar turn to the Unitqd States with a cargo.

sS. co.
Ing out of

Petween Great

r3itain and "

4. L. to choose the supercargo and instruct him, and
as the adventure will appear on the face qf the papers
mAmerican to belong to B, he- shall give the supercargo a power,
mnerchant ql.
spcg"
though the
and recognize him the master of the cargo, so that the
trade'could be consignecs at Lima shall follow literally his oders.
ltawiully
wi-pat"r
red'on ca ThrTheconsignees, wh
who
partners Qf
oere
B., to receive
§11p, is to be
considered as

Spanish Sub- a commission.
:Wrt
.If 'e ny
letter -

ulbmitted

to

-

6. The said L. and D. agreo to divide equally, and

part and part alike, the profits of the adventure.
the 'insuranee, naye commissions on sale.
tbh upderwrz.
es,'ordert~g

L. to

refer to ano-

Vrietter pre.
06u.1e)ae r

V Optioal i L. to sell in United States, or convey
to Europe. If he sells in the United
State3, B. may take out, at the price of sales, as much

fOre them,
the return cargo
Ifiarb letterStes
mya
-in.
jnte
tlrmadon

%.ey¢etsel that
had
rmission to

as will be equal to his rights.

6-o
the
. If L. sends the cargo to Europe, lie is to choose
P:,Xt colo- the supercargq, but the consignees to be chosen jointly.

ies, the unare
ierwriters
rnd t~no. tha'tfact
and 'to kno

9. In case of loss B-. to claim nothing, as Ins share
ip the profits only
accrues on the safe return of the yes.
r
o
that the iessel sel to the United States. Optional with L. to insure or
would take all not.
L. not to be allowed for risk, if no insuance,
the papersee zj oe
o ~
ik
ceryt
more tl
15 per cent. ±No insurance to he on the rinks
tnake the voy-

of the Spanish government.

5ge legal.

The usage of
trAd, may he
rhove

h

12. If any loss accrues from causes not stipalated, B.

caroI

such uge o- cargo,

riglnated
redicto
eam a
tw orert o
the government of the

country.

The question
vilether the

only his privilege.
B. to pustain half.

If loss ont sale of return

Livingston soon afterwards chartered the shp Hershi
kimer for the voyage and entered into a contract with
the other Plaitiff Gilehritt one James Baxter, and
Glcron
one wit
t
r
i l
Edward Griswold, for.
tly carrying on, with them,

FEBRUARY TERM 181s.

509

the said voyage. The cargo was purchased with their iiviNGsjoint funds, and was shipped to Lima, where, and at TON &
GILGuayaquil, a, return cargo was received, purchased
CMRIST
cargo.
original
the
with the proceeds of
V.

On the. 25th of March,. 1806, Mr Gilchrist address- MARY'D,
ed to Al-xander Webster & Co. at Baltimore, a lettek izs. co.
containing an order for insurance.on the cargo of the
s1p Lierkuimer, from Guayaquil, or her last port of de- abandonment
- rc made in
parture in Sout6 America, to New York, against loss duetime, ,

American property, and not a

quoedon

by capture only, warranted
-for illicit or of ract to be
free from all loss on- account of seizure
to the juprohibited trade. It says, is the owners are already in- left
t
T.ibt t e
"sured against the dangers of the seas and all other' decided
by
"9risks, except that of captureY "You have already them under
4; had a description of the ship from Messrs. Church tliedirectionof
the Court.
"and Demmill, the agent of Mr, Jackson, and which No act, 3usti.
"I presume is correct." ,, I think prc.per to mention flable by the
'that he insurance will be on account of Mr.. Brock- trae, k done
" host Liingston and myself. Mr Baxter and Mr. hy theto Plan.
avoid
ussr
" Griswold are also concerned, but the first gentleman

that in his under thewn
"thinks there is so little danger of capture.
" letter from Lima, lie expressly directs no insurance .to of Spain, can
"be made for him against this risk, and Mr. Griswold .avoidthe poll
Plain",is not here to. consult. Both these gentlemen, as well If the unyact.
tifs do in&
l~z #which
" as thbse for whotn you are desired to make insurance,

" are-native Americans."

eaeases the
i'isk of capture
and detention
according to
the common
it
belligerent,,
practice othe
may avoid th

The letter of Church and Demmill was dated 13th
Fell. 1806, and after describing the ship# idds, "cshe
"sailed from Boston the i2th of May last for Lima,
",with liberty to go to one other port in South America,
It 1.
poiicy-necessaryf
"cnot west of Guayaquil, and from thence to New York. not
that the risk
c"She has permission to trade there."
thusmcreased.
should be thle

This letter was laid liefore the board of directors, and

the application at that time rejected.

bek
ofrghtf

ac
capture
cording to the

and Co. was af-law of nations,
The letter from Gilchrist to Webster
terwards laid before the board, and the company made
the insurance for the Plaintiffs at 10 per cent.
The Herkimer, on her return voyage, was captured
near the port of New York, by the Leander, a British
ship of war, and sent to Halifax, where she was condemned.

SUPREME COURT T. S.
The Plaintiffs gave the underwriters notice of the
capture, and obtained their permission to prosecute a
claim for restoration without prejudice to their right to
GILCHRIST abandon. On receiving notice of the condemnation,
T.
they wrote a letter of abandonment, which was deliverDIARY'D. ed to the underwriters, wio refused to pay for the loss,
INs. co. -whereupon tins suit was brought.
IVINGS-

TON &

On the return voyage, just after doubling Cape Horn,
Baxter, who was supercargo and part owner, gave to
Edward Giles, the third mate, a bundle of papers,
partly in Spanish, telling him at the same time that in
all probability they might fall in with privateers, who
night overhaul the trunk in the cabin, and if they found
the papers, it was probable the vessel might be detained as the papers were in Spanish, and they might not
be able to translate them. Giles put the papers in his
trunk.
After the capture, Giles was taken out of the Herkier into the Leander, and on being asked if he had any
objection to have his trunk searched, replied that he
bad not. The trunk was then searched, and this bundIe discovered. It contained papers, covering the cargo
s the property of Baruso, mixed with others wliclt
showed that in fact it was the property of the Plaintiffs
and of Baxter arid Griswold. Evidence was given to
prove, that the usage of the trade made these papers
necessary There was also an estimate of the probable
value of the cargo, if shipped to Europe.
The Herkimer arrived before the Leander, aiid Baxter, upon is examination on the standing interrogatories, described truly the character of the vovage, and
stated correctly the property in the cargo, but denied
his knowledge of any papers, olier than those which
were exhibited, as belonging to the ship.
Issue. was joined on the plea, that the Defendants had
not broken their covenant, and the jury found a verdict
in their favor.
On the trial, 28 bills of exception were taken, partly
by the Plaintiffs, and partly by the Defendants. Only
those taken by the Plaintiffs are now before the Court.

FEBRUAII

TERM i8.

The Plaintiffs.prayed the Court below to instruct the LIVINGSjury, that the letter,. ordering the insurance, does not ,rov&
GILcontain a representation that no person, other than the
said. Livingston, Gilchrist, Griswold & Baxter, was in- CHRIST
v.
terested in the return cargo of the Herkimer, nor that
all the persons interestetl therein were native Amer- m.RY'D.
cans. The judges were divided on this point, and the xNs. co.
instruction was not given.
The 5th bill of exceptions stated, that the. Plaintiffs
prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that if they believed the testimony offered by them, then there was no
such concealment of the said papers as can affect the
right of -the Plaitiffs to recover in this action, which
instruction the Court refused to give, but directed the
jury that if they should be of opinion, that from the
usage and course of trade it was necessary to have the
Spanish and other papers adlivered by Baxter to Giles,
the 3d mate, as aforesaid, then the delivery by Baxter
(bGiles, and the finding and taking of the said paperks
by the officers of the Leander, was not such a coucealment as affects the right of the Plaintiffs to recover.
The 6th bill of exceptions states, that the Plaintift
then prAyed the Courts to instruct the jury, that Barus'
having removed to Nev York, in the United States,
while Spain was neutral, for the purpose of carrying on
trade, and having continued to reside in New York
until after the capture of tha Herkiiner, the said Bar'uso could not,, at the time of the voyage, be considered as a belligerent. This instruction the Court also refused to give, but did instruct the jury that if they should
be oopinon that the said Raruso settled in-New York
before the war between Spain and Great Britain, and
remained there domiciliated and carrying on trade generally until the capture of the Ierkimer, lie is to be
considered as a neutral, but if they should be satisfied
from the testimony that lie went to New York for no
other purpose but to carry on trade as a Spanish subject,
which he could not engage in as a neutral, and that lie
was not engaged, in any other trade than as a Spanish
subject, he cannot be considered as a neutral.
The 7th bill of exceptions states, that the Court then,
on the prayer of the Defendants, gave to the jury the
following opinion

SUPREME COURT U. S.
- The Court having already given an opimon, th.dt
"Baruso was not ajont owner with lie Plaint:ffs and
66 Griswold and Baxter, in the return cargo tf the Her6;kimer, do, in compliance with the opinion of the
v.
"6Supreme Court, leave it to the jury to determine, wheMARV'D. 66 ther Baruso had an interest in the retum cargo winch
INs. co.
",increased the risk of the said voyage, and if the
-----."risk was increased, that the policy waq thereby viti-ated."
This opinion was given on the prayer of the
Defendants to instruct the jury, that the non-communication to the underwriters of papers showing Baruso
to have an interest, and to be a Spanish subject, vitiated the policy

LIVIxS-s

TON &
GILcHLs1TO

The 8th bill of exceptions stated, that the Defendants theft prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that if
they should be of opinion that the papers 'which were
delivered to Giles by Baxter, or any of them, increased the risk, and, that if any of the papai s which did so
increase the risk were not necessary by the laws and
usages of Spain. or the course and usage of trade bet, ien the United States and Lima, and that it was nut
communicated to the Defendants that such papers would
accompany the car.-,o, then the Plaintiffs were not entitled to recover. The Court gave the opinion.
The 9th bill of exceptions stated, that "the Plaintiftls
prayed an instruction to the jury, that in estimating
the increase of risk on the return voyage of the Herktmet, they were to consider it as a voyage which the
Defendants were informed, in and by the letter of
Church ani Dommill, was carried on tinder a liccuse
from the Spanish government, avid the question for
*hem to decide was, whether the risk of such a voyage,
carried on under such a license, vwas increased by any
of the circumstances relied on by the Defendants to show
an increase of risk in this case. This opinion the Court
refused to give.
The ith bill of exceptions stated, that the Plaintiff
produced a witness to prove the usage of the trade, who
said that by the laws. regulations and usages of the
trade, it was necessary that the property imported into, or exported from the colony, by a fore~gner. should
be under a Spanish license, and appear to be Spanish

F]BRUARY TEUM isiS.

511

property. Whereupon the Defeffidits moved the Court LTVMGSto instruct the jury, that thins evidence is not competent Tox &
to prove the municipal laws of Spain. or the usage and
GiLcustom of trade established by their municipal laws. CHA4sT
The opinion of the Court.was, that - no parol evidence
T.
is admissible to the jury, or if given, can be regarded MBARY'D;
b) them, to prove the legislative edicts or acts of the -INs. co.
Spanish government, or to prove any usage, custom o--course of trade conformable to such edicts or acts , but
that such evwence is admissible to prove the general
us-ge and course of trade that may depend on instructions to the government of Peru."
The 13th bill of exceptions stated, that the Plaintiffs.
produced witnesses, ignorant of the laws of Spain, to
prove their understanding of the usage of the trade,
and the Defendants ,produced counter testimony on the
Asage , whereupon the Defendants mioved. the. Court to
instruct thejury, that the t,,stimnny of the Plaintiffs, if
believed, was not competent to show the usage or course
of trade that the Herkimer, on her return voyage,
should be accompanied with paprrs giving the cargo the
appearance of Spanish properly. The -Court refused
to give this opinion, but instructed time jury, that if they
were of opinion that the usage 6p course of trade from
or to the province of Peru by foreign-rs, was to have
a license from the king of Spain to trade, and to have
Spanish papers on board, to show or give color that
the cargo was Spanish property, the Defendants were
bound to take notice of such course of trade, but if the
jury should be of opinion that the trade was prohibited
by the lavs of Spain, the Plaintiffs must prove that the
Defendants had notice or information of such prohibition.
The 20th bill of exceptions is to an opinion of the
Court, that wliether the fbaudonment was in reasonable
time or not, is not a fact to he exclusively left to the
jury, but to be decided by them under the direction of
the Court.
The 2-Ith bill (f exceptions stated, that the Defendants moved the Court to instruct the jury, that the insurers are not liable for any increase ot risk. in consequence of any acts done by the insured to avoid seizure
VOL. VIL
6

SUPREME COURT U. Si
LIVINGS- and confiscation under tile laws and regulations 9 f the
TON & Spanish government. ,lhch instruction the Court gave,
GIL-

CHRIST
V.

The 25th bill of exceptions stated, that tile counsel
for the Plaintiffs then, moved the Court to instruct the
jury, that the right of the Plaintiffs would not be af-

MARY D. fected by any increase of risk produced by such acts fts
Iss. co. were stated in the preceding exception. if such acts were

according to the course and usage of trade on the voyage insured. This opinion the Court refused to give.

The 28th bill of exceptions stated, that the Plaintiffs
moved the Court to instruct the jury, that'lhe increase
of risk, by which alone the right oftthe Plaintiffs to recover in this action can be effected, is an increase (by
reason of some act or omission of tile Plaintifs, or their
agentS) of the danger of rightfid capture or condemnalion under the law of nations. The Court refused to
give tilis opinioi.

The .irdict and judgment being against the Plain'tiffs they sued out their writof error,
1HARPnhI,

for the Plaintivs Ii error

question is that upon which the Court
l. Theist
below was divided in opinion, viz whether the letter
of Gilchist to Web.iter & Co. ordering the insurance,
c'intains a representation that no other person than
Livingston, Gilchrist, .Gri-wold and Baxter was interested in the retan, cargo. of the Herkimer, or that all the
persons Interested therein were nati'e Americans. It
certainly does not contain a direct affirmation of either
of those facts. It contains at most a negative pregnant, an ambcuity of which the underwriters, if they
flJemed it importatit, should have required an explanation. Nothing can amount to a representation which
is not certain to a common intent, so certain as not to
admit of a doubt, provided the veracity of the party be
not questioned, and lie be not under a mistake. There
is no difference between a representation and a warran-ty, except that the one. is contained in the policy and
the other is out of it. They must both be equally certain.
STORY, J. Do you admit this question to be relevant
.to the cause ?

FEBRUARY TERM -oi3.
I.RPEIzi No. That is another branch of the drgu- ININGshncut, I shall contend that it was immaterial whether TON &
Baruso were a neutral or not, but that he was% quoad GILhoc neutral.
CHRIST
"V.

The 2d question arises upon the 5th bill of excep- mARX'D.
tions, which was the first taken by the Plaintiffs. It is iNs. co.
to the refusal of the Court to instruct the jury that there
was no such concealment of papers as could affect the
Plaintiff's right to recover, and to the opinion wich
the Court gave, whereby they made the effect of the
concealment depend upon the question whether the papers were necessai1/ according to the usage and course
of the trade. The Plaintiffs object to the opinion given.
2.

I Because it makes the effect of Baxter's .conduct
relative to the papers depend on the usage and course
of the trade, whereas, independently of any such usage,
that conduct could not affect the right of recovery, in.
asmuch as it did not amount to a concealment of papers, and as the concealment of papers cannot affect
such a right.
2. Because it requires that the usage and course of
the trade, in order to make this conduct of Baxter innocent, should render it necessary to have those papers
on board, whereas if the usage and course of trade rFIMITT D the having them, it was suicient.
3. Because it extends to all the papers delivered by
Baxter to Giles, many of which were perfectly immaterial and innocent in themselves, independently of any
usage or course of trade.
The act did not amount to a concealment. It was
,uily putting the papers from one trunk to another less
liable to be searched. It must be such an act as would
be likely to prevent discovery , and it must be doum
with intent to deceive the belligerent, and to defraud Jm
of-some belligerent right. When the prayer for an instruction is hypothetical, the facts constituting the hypothesis are to be considered as found by special verdict.
If these facts had been found by a special verdict,
they would not have been a finding of a concealment.
But concealment of paper- is not a' violation of neutrality. It is no ground for condemnation, nor even

SUPREME COURT t. S.
for detention. The answer to the Russian memorial
expressly disclaims concealment and even destruction of
papers as a legal ground of cond,:mnation. It is only a
ground to ref.ise costs or dainages on restitution, or to
refuse farther proof, where there is prima facte ground
"'.
4ARY'D. of condemnation independent of the concealment-i
xNs. co. Rob. appenl. 5, answer to the Russian memorial, 2, Rob,
88-the Rismng Sun. Evbu spoliation of papers would
affect Baxter's property only , and the Plaintiffs would
be permitted to give further proof.

FIVINGS-

TON &
GIL
CHRIST

Some.of the papers delivered to Giles were wholly
unimportant, an., nniiecessary to the prosecution of the
voyage in safe.ty, and yef the opinion of the Court, (to
be in fav,,r of the Plamtiffs) required that they should
be necessary according to the us.tge and coarse of the
trade. Among those papers was an estimate of the
value of the cargo if re-shipp d from New York to Cadiz. ,This certainly was not necessary by the usage of
the trade. There were several other papers eq'ially
unimportant. Yet in the opinion of the Court the concealment of these papers violated the warranty of neutrality.
S. The 3d question arose on the 6th bill of exceptions
which was to the opmniomn of the Court which made
Baruso's character, as a.neutral or belligerent, depend
upon-the kind of trade lie carried on, as well as upon
his domicil.
The Plaiiffis object to this opinion, ist. Because
tie place of domicil acquired in tinie of peace is the
criterion of a man's character as neutral or belligerent
and not the nature of the trade. In the case of the
Harmony, 2, Rob. 266, G. W Murray residing in
France, was considered as a belligerent, while his partpers in the same adventure, residing in the United States
wre conside'red as nutrals. 3, Rob. 21, the Indian
Chief. 3, Rob. "$7, the Citto.-t, Rob. 323, standing interrogatortes. 12th iterrogatory a& to resudence of the
parties.-5, Rob. Appendix, order in council of the
2"1th of Jane, 1803, relating to inhabitants of rertwan
colonies. 8, T. H Si, Wilson v. Jlarryat, 1, Camze's
eases ti error, W5, Duguet v. linelander The nature of
the trade has nothnn to do with the question. [f neutral by domicil he may trade with belligerents, provI-

FEBRUARY TERM isis.
ded it be not in articles contraband of war. His nen- LIVIGtrality was not inconsistent with his privilege as a TON &
$parnsh subject. Hie does not luse his privilege by b6- GILcoming a neutral American., As between him and the cuRisT
'D.
government of Spain, lie was still a Spanish subj ct.
But as between him and the government of Great Bri- MARR'n.
tam, he was, according to the pnnciples of the British INs. co.
prize Courts, an American merchant.
The Plaintiffs also object to the opinion of the Court
because there was no evidence upon which the Court
could ground the hvpotbesis. that Baruso came to thls
country to car,'y on that trade o.ly. Although the fact
might be that lie carried on no other trade yet it does
not follow that he came here for no other purpose.
4. The 4th question arises under the 7th bill of exceptions, which states that the Court (in compliance
left it tQ the
with the opinion of the Supreme Court -,t)
jury to determine whether Baruso had an interest in thp
return cargo wbhich inerased the risk of the voyage
and directed the jury th t it the risk was increased, the
policy was thereby vacated.
The Plaintiffs object to this opinion of the Court,
1. Because it leaves it to the jury to aeci(de a mere
question of law, viz --whether the contingent interest
of Barus, in the voyage, could have the effect of deft-ating the Plaintiffs right to recover, by increasing the
risk, instead of directing them, as ought to have beeli
done; that such an interest was not subject to captpre,
that the Plaintiffs were not bound to disclose it, and
that therefore it could not in law affect their right to
recover.
2. Because it does not, as it ought to have ,done.
mako the effect of Baruso's interest on the right of recovery, depend on his national- character, it being
clear, as the Plaintif-,contend- that if he was a neutral,
and not a belligprent, his property was not liable to
capture, and no interest which he had in the voyage.
could affect their right.
See Ante, vol. 6, p. 27:

SUPREME COURT, U. S*
3. Because it does not, as it ought to have done,
make the effect of tins interest on the right of recovery,
depend on the usage and course of the. trade, it being
GILclear as they contend, that if the usage and course of
0V'11ST
the trade authorized the use of a Spaniard's name to
v.
cover the voyage, a mere contingent interest of that
MAIl '.
INs. co. Spamard in the voyage could not, nor could any interest which he could have in it consistently -with the -warranty, affect the right of the Plaintiffs.
.IVINGS-

ro..- &

4.. Because the Defendants, having protected themselves, bv a warranty of neutrality, against the effect
of any belligerent interest in the voyage, were not entitled to a disclosure of that of Baruso, even could it be
considered as a belligerent interest.
The Court below misunderstood the opinion ot this
Court upon every point on which al opinion was given
when this cause was before this Court on the former
writ of error, (Ante, -vol. 6, p. 274. )
Whqther Baruso had an interest in the return cargo
was a question of law dependent upon the construction
f tlhis contract.
The opinion of this Court was that if Baruso had aii
iiterest in the return cargo, the materiality of that interest to the risk of the voyage, was a fact to be decided
by a jury under the direction of a Court. This Court
did not decide that the question whether Baruso had such
an interest, was to be left to the jury The Courtbelow ought to have directed the .jurv that Baruso had
no interest. He was not to share the loss unless that
loss happened by a defect in his license. He was only
to share in the profits after the vessel should arrive. It
was only a contingent interest in the success of the voyage, like the interest of a consignee who is to have a
coinnssion on the sales. Suppose a consignee in a
neutral country should be a subject of a belligerent nation, would his contingent interest vitiate the policy ?
It would afford no just ground of interference by a belligerent. The question is not what would firnish ajust
pretext for rapacity, but what would be a just ground
of detention under the law of nations. 1, Cane's Ca.

FEBRUARY TERM 1810.
25, .uguet v. Rhkielaiuler
ker v. Blakes.

'in error,

519

9, East, 282, Ba-

LIVINGSToz &
GL-

The Court, below ought to have told the jury that CHIRST
.v.
Baruso, being domiciliated in the United States, Was to
be considered as a neutral, and as such his property was ALIRT'D.
safe under the law of nations, whatever pretext'hs Ixs. co.
namd might have afforded to a rapAcious cruizer.
The connexion of a belligerent interest with a neutral
interest, 'does not render void a policy on the ieutral
interest,
Besides the course of thg trade made it necessary
that the property should be in the name of Baruso, and
this was known to the underwriters.
But, with submission to any opinion which this Court
may have given, the interest ofj Baruso was wholly immaterial to this case. The Defendants have guarded
themselves by the warranty-of neutralty If the property be neutral tlir motiths are stopped. When thea
take a warranty, they wave- all questions of this kind.
The premium was calculated upon the warranty When
a contract is reduceil to writing all antecedent negotiations are merged in the conclusive act. The Plaintiffs
were not bound to give notice of any belligerent inter
est. As to every thing against which the warranty is
a protection, no disclosure was necessary.-Marshall,
If Baruso's interest did not violate the warranty
4,T.
it was immaterial.
5. The 5th question arose upon the 8th bill of exceptions which was taken to the opinion of the Court,
"that if the jury should be of opinion that the papers
"which were delivered by Giles to Baxter,. or any of
",them, increased the risk, and that if any of the papers
which did so increase the risk were not necessary by
"the laws and usages of Spain, or the course and usage
"cof trade between the United States and Lima, and
" that it was not communicated to the Defendants that
It such. papers would accompany the cargo,. then the
"Plaintiffs were not entitled to recoVer."
-,

To this opinion the Plaintiffs objlect.

SUPREME COURT'U. S.

r.xvtivsTON &
GILCHRIST

V.

1. Because it requires that those papers, in orler to
be considered as innocent, should be necessary by the
usage and course of the trade; whereas ibwas sufficient
if the usage authorized them, although it might not have
rendered them necessary.

-MAEY'D.

INs. Co.

2. Because the Defendants having protected themselves by a warranty of neutrality against unneuti al
conduct, were not entitled to a disclosure of the fact
that those papers would be on board.
The effect of the Spanish papers was neutralized by
the real American documents on board, showing clearly
the real state of the interest of tIp Plaintiffs- If the
Spanish papers had stoon alone they might have been a
ground of detention, or perhaps of further proof, but
they of themselves showed a neutral character, though
not the same ownership. They showed the property
to belong to Baruso, and that he was a resident of Boston. But the papers which accompanmed them in the
same bundle, showed the real ownership and clear neutrality of the cargo. The Spanish papers, therefore,
did not prove the property to be belligerent, and if they
did not falsify the warranty, they were perfectly immaterial.
6. The 6th question was upon the 9th bill of exceptions,
which was taken to the, refusal of the Court to instruct
the jury that in estimating the risk they were to take
into consideration the circumstance that it was a voyage which the'Defendants were informed was carried
on under a license from the Spanish govern:nent. It is
clear that the conuexion of Baruso with such a vo age
could not increase the risk.
7 The 7th question was upon the lith bill of exceptions, which was takan to the opimon of the Court that
parol evidence was not admissible to prove any usage,
custom, or course of trade, conformabl- to the legislative edicts or acts of the Spanish government. Butthat
such evidence was admissible to prove the general usage
or course of trade that might depend upon znstructions
to the government of Peru.
The Plaintiffs object to this opinion because it peecluded them from parol proof of the usage and course

FEBRUARY TERM 18i3.

5A

of trade, in case that usage and course should have
arisen out of, or even should happen to be in conformity with the legislative, acts or edicts of Spain. 'Whereas
the usage and course of trade are in all cases facts
capable of parol proof, and seldom susceptible of any
other,
8.. The sth question arose. upon the 13th bill of exceptions, which was taken to the opinion of the Court
that the Defendants were bound to take notice of the
usage and course of trade, but not of the la-es of Spain
prohibiting the trade.
To the latter part of this opinion the Plaiitiffs objecti
1. Because, whether the trade was generally prolnbited by the laws of .Spain, or not, was a matter wholly
ifimaterial, and their right of recovery ought not to
depend on the knowledge which the Defendants might
or might not possess of an innmaterial fact.
2. Because if the prohibition of this trade by the laws
of Spain was legally proved, aud was a material facti
the Defendants were bound to take notice of it.
3. Because there was no legal evidence given in the
cause, or stated in any of the bills of exceptions, that
this trade was generally prohibited by the. laws of Spain,
the only evidence beiffig that it could not, according to
the usage and course of the trade. be carried on to a
forezign port, except under a special permission, a Spanish name, and Spansh papers. ,Therefore it ouglit not
to have been left to the jury to'find that this trade was
prohibited by the laws of Spain, as a foundation for requirnig the Plaintiffs to prove that the Defendants had
notice of the prohibition.
0. The 9th question ftas on the 20th bill of exceptions, which was taken to the opinion of the Court. that
the question whether th&abandonment was or was not
in reasonable time, was not a question of fact to be exclusively decided by the jury, but was to be deci,!ed by
them under the direction of the Court. The Plaintiffs
contend that'under the opilion of this Court in tris
case upon the former writ of error (ante, vol. 6, p. 2749
67
VOL. VHf.

IIVINGs
TON &
GIT.CHRIST

V.
MARY'D
INS. CO.

SUPREME COURT. U S.
uv-Gs- it is a mere question of fact to be found by the jury.

But as some doubt arose in consequence of what was
said by this Court in the case of the Chesapeake In. Co.
-o. Starke, (ante, vol. 6, p. 268) this bill of exceptions
was taken that the opinion of this Court may be fully
v.
rAIRY11). understood.
N 'S. Co.
MARSH AL, Ch. J. said he understood that the Court
might instruct the jury that certain factp constitute reasonable notice, but that in a special verdict it must be
stated whether the time was reasonable.

TON &
G3hCHRIST

-1ARPER.

:io. The i0th question arises upon the 24th and 25th
bills of exception. In which the Court instructed the
jury in substance that the insurers were not liable for
any increase of risk in consequence of any acts done by
the insured to avoid seizUre and confiscation under the
laws and regulations of the Spanish government; although such acts were according to the usage and course
of the trade on the voyage insured.
The Plaintiffs object to this opinion,
i. Because it is in vague and indefinite terms; whereas it ought to have specified the acts which were to
have the effect in question, to the end that they might
appear to be acts of which there was evidence before
the jury, and which, if proved, were capable in law of
)roducing- that effect.
2. Because the effect of those acts on the right oC recoverv. is not made to depend on the course and usage
of the trade.
1,. The lith question was upon the 28th bill of exceptions, which was taken to the refusal of the Court
to instruct the jury ii substance that the only risk, the
increase of which could -affectthe Plaintiff's right to re
cover, was the risk of rightful capture under the law of
nations.
The Plaintiffs contend that what would give a mero
pretext for ulust capture, was not sufficient to charge

FEBRUARY TERM iSiS.
the Plaintiffs with an increase of the risk insured
against, so as to avoid the policy. Every flung was
immaterial which did not increase, the risk of rightful
capture and condemnation, and which did not furnish
at least a ground of condemnation which the belligerent
has holden to be a rightful ground.
Earuso had no interest ii the ship, and yet the ship
as well as the cargo was condemned-no doubt on the
principle that it was a trade in time of war, not permitted in time of peace. But the license dirntsked the
risk because it showed that it was a trade permitted in'
time of peace.
PINxwFY, .Attorney General, contra.
1. As to the division of opinion in the Court below.
It is true the letter ordering the insurance does not
in direct term.- dery that no other person had an interest in th cargo, but it contains a strong implication
to that effect. If any transaction requires bona fides it
is a repyesentatiou tor insurance. It is the act of the
insured and they ought not to shelter themselves under
an ambiguity. If it be calculated to mislead it is sufficient.
It is true that nothing is stated negatively. 'But why
name others as concerned who were not to be insured,
unless to infor'm the underwriters respecting the whole
transaction with reference to the national character of
all parties coneerned. It is calculated to excite in the
minds of the undrwriters a belief tbat it contains inforination on that subject. They who undertake to-convey
information must take care that it do not excite an
idea which they did not mean to convey
This point, however, is not considered as of very
great importance.
2. The next question is much more important. This
question arises on the 5th bill of exceptions.
The Court gave, in substance, the instruction which
he Plaintiffs prayed, and yet the Plaintiffs excepted be-

LIVINGSTON &

GILCHRIST

V.
MARY'D.
INS. CO.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
VINvGIlS- cause it was not exactly in their own words. The
woN & Plaintiffs had, among other things, given evidence that
GIhthe papers found in Qiles's trunk were necessanj ,acCURIST cording to the usage and course of the trade,, and then
v.
prayed the Court to instruct the jury that. if they beMA.RY'D. lieved the evidence so offered, then there was ,no such
-INS. Co. concealment of' the said papers as could affect the right
-of the Plaintiffs -i) recover, and this was in truth the
direction which the Court gaye.
But the Court ou.ght not to have given the direction
as prayed. The concealmpnt of the papers was unneutral, although the parties were justifiable in using them
to protect their illegal trade. The whole transaction
was unneutral first, in concealing the papers, and secondly, in denying a knowledge of them. The belligerent had a right to see the papers. It was a clear belligerent right flowing from the right of search.
No Court xof admiralty, however rapacious? has eveLconsidered concealment-of inocent papers as, per se, a
ground of confiscation But this wis not a concealment of innocent papers, It was a concealment of papers tending to prove the property to be belligerent.
It increased the susuicions already excited by other circiumstanwes. E3axter was supercargo, and his acts bitid
the-,thers. although lie was a, partner. Al the partners are aIffected by the fraud of anv ove of them. J
Blob. im, The Welvaart. If this unneutral conduct
brought the property into suspicion it is sufficient. If
it sublcts the propertv to such detention as would anthorize abandonment, thc- Plaitiffis were not entitled to
the opini-in praved in the 5th exception. In a case
where there was concealment of such papers as were
calculated to induce such suspicion as would require
further proof, and this concealment followed by prevaric:tin, we could not expect a prize Court to acquit.
It would at leIst produce detention continued by an adjoilrnment of the case.
This concealment, connected with the other circumstances, .lustified the condemnation. , There were documents showing the property to be in four Americans.
Anion ; the concealed papers was a copy of the royal
qpanmsh license, authorizing a Spanish subject resident

FEBRUARY TERM 1sia.
in Boston to import goods into the United States from LIVI Gsthe Spanish colonies. The adventure appeared to be TON &
GILSponish. It could only be carried on by a Spaniard.
cHRisT
There was also concealed another papee of great effect-0.
a power of attorney from Baruso tQ Baxter, the super6
MARY'1
me
ladeTnfor
"zs
cargo
the
says
Baruso
cargo, in which
" and on imy accout and risk." It proved the property ivs. ro.
to be in Baruso, and that he was a Spanish subject. It
calls him a Spanish Terchant. It showed his national
character to be belligerent, although he was resident in
a neutral country
It is not residenct only which gives the national commercial character. The intention, the nature of the
orrand, the permanency of the residence, are all necessary ingredients.
The circumstances of suspicion were very strong,
Baxter's receipt, &c. sthtes him to be the agent of Baruso. The letters fiom Baruso's friends, the clearances,
&c. &c. were all, on account of the royal license," and
,tated that the cargo was to be deliyered to Baruso. He
was the cloak of the transaction, and lie could only be a
cloak by his Spanish clwracter When there are two sets
of documents it is immaterial to the captors which they
wished to conceal.. All these circumstances created too
strong a suspicion to justify an acquittal. The case
might have heen explained but for the unfortunate conduct of" the supercargo;which induced a denial or further proof. H,,who could and ought to hai'e explaincd
the concealment, did ilot, but increased the suspicions
by Ins prpvarication. There were only three alternatives before the Court-to acquit, to conidemn, or t4Vellow further proof. The suspicion was, too strong to acquit-the prevarication precluded further proof. There
was nothing left but to condemn.
The first and most essential of all belligerelit rights
is that of visitation and search. The right-to see -all
the documents is a necessary consequence of that right),
or it would be nugatory. 'It was the duty of the super'hy did
cargo, as a neutral, to show all the papers.
lie show the neutral papers only? The object of the
supercargo was to defeat an acknowledged belligerent
right, and he endeavored tQ deceive the adjuicating
Court.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LIVINGSTON &
GIL-

STORY, .. I wish you to consider whether, if the
trade be .ilecessaritybelligerent,the concealment of these
papers can be considered as material.

CHRIST

'v.
IMARY'D.

PINrNEY.

worse ?

That is, whether they can make the case

Pernaps not.

IKS. CO.

3. The. Sd point is as to the neutral character of Baruso by reason of his residence in the United States.
Locality is something, but not every thing. So is
the time of emigration.
The general principle of the law of nations is, that
the belligerent-character belongs to the subject of the
hostile nation wherever found, Mere change of place
does not alter the character. It is easier for a neutral
to slide into the cjmaracter of an enemy, than for an enemy to fall into that of a neutral. But even in such
cases, that great expounder of the law of nations, si
V- Scott, examines all the circumstances of the case,
time of removal, permanency of residence, motive, and
.nature of his business. The case of GoUett (8 T. R?. 31,
Wilso v . Xarrat) has no bearing upon tins case. The
special verdict found Collett to be a citizen of the
United States, and the case depended upon the treaty
of 1791.
The case of Mr. Johnson is not more to the point.
His office of American consul prevented .his residence
in London fiom affecting his national character. If lie
had not had the ammus revertendi before the voyage of
the Indian Chief was commenced, and had not departed before the arrival of the ship, the trade would have
been adjudged unlawful.
The next case is that of G. W Murray Sir W
Scott not only forgot to adminstei'justice in mercy, but
pushed his principles of commercial law infinitely too
far. The commissioners, under the 7th article of the
British treaty,*- gave Murray compensation on the
ground that the decision of sir W Scott was wrong.
Of whom

tMr.
Finkney was one

FEBRUARY TERM i8i3.
But, even upon the principles on which that case was
decided, residence alone does not constitute national
character. The time of his removal and the nature of

I.IVINGS-

TON &

Ins employment were also considered.

GILCHRIST
70.

So also in the case of the Citto, 3 Bob. 38, the nature
of Mr. Bowden's residence in Holland was examined.

IAtRY'D.
I:Ns. co.

The question always is, whether lie has become, not
a citizen or subject, but a maerchant of that country i. e.
a general merchant. But did Baruso become a general
American merchant? Was his trade American? Was
it neutral? No. He carefully wrapped luimsdl" up in
the folds of his license, and fenced himself round to ex
elude the American character.
The case of .Duguet w. Rhelander-is not more applicable than the others. The Plaintiff was a naturalized citizen, had been long resident and was embarked in the general trade of. the country.
As to the Plaintiff's 2d objection to the opinion, because there was no evidence upon which the Court
could raise the hvpothesis that Baruso came to this
country for no other purpose than to carry on that particular trade-the fact is otherwise. There was evidence from which the jury might infer the fact supposed
by the Court; and they have found it.
4f. The sth question arises upon the 7th bill of exceptions, and is whether the Court oiughtto have left it
to the jury to decide whether Baruso had an interest
in the cargo. ,
Perhaps it was a question of law dependent on the
construction of the contract, and ought to have been decided by the Court. But the Plaintiffs cannot complain
that the Court left it to the jury to decide a question of
law which the Court oughtto have decided against him.
Baruso had an interest. He was a partner. Tlie writ-

ten contract says "che agrees to the following PARTNERIt is not contended that they are hound by thesa'."
word cpartnership" if the contract does not in law
amount to a partnership. But the term may explain
other doubtful expressions. LiTvingston was to contri-

SU11REME COURT U. S.
LxIVINos-

bute vessel and funds-Baruso the license, and services,

as far as his services were necessary to give, effect to
the liceflse. Here was a joint contribution for common
It was not necessary that the losses should be
CURIST benefit.
equally borne, nor the profits equally divided. Here,
MAxRY91. was also a participation of profits, even in an equal deiRS. Co. gree, in a certain event. So there was a contribution
in loss. If the expedition failed Livingston would lose
his goods, and Baruso the use of his license for a certain time. The suffering, in their own estimation,
would be equal. Incase of loss upon the sales, Baruso
was to contriitite., and if the cargo should be lost by
reasofi of a defect in the license, the whole loss would
fall upon him. He is quarrantee also for the consignees
in South America. He had also an interest in the specific goods. In aceertarn case he was t5 have a right
to-take a portion of the goods themselves. The policy
was underwritten whiie the vessel was on her return
vbyage, and while lie had this interest. It was not a
mee hIcontingency, but a vested interest.
Tox &
GI4.

It is contended that if the usage and course of the
trade authoi'ized the 'use of a Spanish cover, a real Spahiish interest would not increase the rsk. But the *irranty of American property forbids a mixture of a belligern'it interest, at least it would in a Court of admiralty
5. The 5th question was upon the 8th bill of excep,,
tiohs.
This opinioli will not bear the construction wnch the
Plaintiffs have put upon it. It does not mean to say
that the papers to be innocent must be 7ecessary according to the usage of the trade, but if it was the usage of
the trade to have such Iapers, then they were'innocent.
6. The Plaintiffs were not-entitled to the instruction
prayed for in the 9th bill of exceptions, because- it was
an instrkiction as to a fact, viz. that the-Defendants
had notice that the voyage was to be carried on under
a royal Spanish license. Whether they had such nolice depended upon the question whether they recollected the letter of CIurch and Demmill, and whether they,
knew it was the same ship and the same voyage4

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

7.. The 7th question was upon the Utih bill of exceptions, and was whether parol evilence could b,- given
of an usa.e Which grew out of aaw, inasmuch as the
law itself was not-proved by-competent evidence.

li:VINGS-

TON

&

GCHRIST
T.

It was supposed that the law should be first proved MAY'D.
before evidence could be given of the usag3 dependent Ixs. co.
on that law.
8. The 8th question arose on the 13th bill of excep.tions, andwas whether the. Defendants were bound to
take notice of the Spanish laws of trade.
There is no adjudged case winch requires. underwritvrs to take notice of-such laws, although they are.
bound to know the usage of the trade. If there was no
evidence of the law. the opinion was immaterial and
coild not injure the Plaintiffs.
9. The 9th question arose upon the 20th bill of ex,ceptions, and was whether reasonable notice was a qxies;
tion qxclusively for.the jury.
The Plaintiffs had no right to except to this "opinion.
Reasonableness of time ia a matter of fact to-be found
R
by a jury tinder the direction of a Court. And the
Court may direct them from certain facts, whether it be
r.ea.5onabte. In the same manner as, in trover', the
Court may instruct the,jury that a demand and reflsal
are evidence of a conversion.
10. The i0th question arises upon the 24th and 25th.
exceptions, and was whether the Defendants were liable
for an inrase of risk in consequence of any acts done
by the Plaintiffs to avoid seizure and confiscation by
the Spanish government for illicit trade-the Plaintiffs
-having taken that risk aponithemselves.

The principal objection to this opinion seems to he
that it'is too abstract, and does not state the facts which
were supposed to increase the risk. But there were
facts enough stated in the bill of exceptions to ground
the instruction upon. All the paraphernalia of the Spaish garb, were acts done to protect the cargo from
VOL. VIT.
68

SUPREWE COURT 1. S.
wwwps- coifiscation by the Spanish government for illicit trade,
wow & and certainly increased thei-isk of capture by the Bntish, which waa the only risk which the Defendants
GiL.MarshaUt, 416, Condy's edition.
cMUST took upon themselves.
V.
I Xr. Y. T. &1519.
NAIM'D.

-3 s. Co.

t. The ith question arose upon the 28th bill of exceptions, and was whether the risk, the increase of
winch could affect the Plaintiff's right to recover, could
be any other than the &jskof righttl capture under the
law of nations.
It was not necessary that the risk should be of just
condemnation under the law of nations. It was sufficient if it increased the risk of condemnation upon any
principle recognized by the Courts of the captor.
The Court was not bound to give an opinion unless
prayed, and if thd opinion prayed be not correct the
Court is not bound to give any other. i MlfarshaU, 473,
O~ady Xwran edition, Serrj v. Delaware Insurancc
Co.

I'Elmpnn in teplj.
i. -Even if theletter ordering'the insurance did contain
the intimations supposed, yet it did not amount to a
representpion, which must always be a positive affir
mance or denial 'of some fact--ee the opinion of tjns
Courtin this .cmeAte§ Vol. 6,p. 271, and Atarsiilf 0,

2. As to the 5th exception, it is said that the Court
gave mn substance; the opinion prayed j yet if the prayer
and opinion were both wrong, the Plaintiffs had a right'to
except, But it is not in substance the same. Perhaps
If,
taken alone it might be so considered, but when taken in connection with the refusal to give the instruction a" prayed it is, or muht be understood as being
01beant.
nut merely the deliver'y of the papers to Gilesy
Ufbut it was also the cbnduct of Baxter in denying the exntence of Abe papers, &c. which was insisted upon by
fbe Deftdpnts as conatitating the concealment. Thu
were still at liberty to argue to the jiry
Ifendvotvi

FEBRUARY TERM iiS.
-that the concealment by Giles, inconnexion with the TIvINGS'
conduct of B-x-er, was such a concealment. By re- ToN &
GILfusing the Plainliffs prayer and giving the instruction
,as tfey did, the inference was plain that it did amount CHRIST
V.
to such a concealment.
MARVID.

But there is another more important objection -to the INs. co.
apinibn. The concealment, .even of criminal papers,
is not.a ground-even of detention-nor even to deny
further proof. Spoliation alone has that effect. (See
the answer to the Prussian neniorzal zu the case of the
Silesza loan.) If the papers are found and produced, it
excites only a slight suspicion that other important papers may be concealed. But even if it did authorize a
denial of further proof, yet it is only in a case where so
strong a suspicion exists from other circumstances that
the Court cannot acquit. But here no such suspicion
was raised by the other circumstances. The concealed
papers themselves proved the neutrality of the property.
The case did not need further proof. The power of
attorney of Baruso was irrevocable-if not expressly,
yet by implication.
There is no case which decides that concealment of
papers is a ground to refuse furtlier proof. There is a
great'diffi-rence between concealment and spoliation of
papers, as to the d.gree of suspicion excited. When
the papers ard destroyed, the mind is left to conjecture
and the strongest suspicion may be justified. But when
the papers are found and produced, the whole extent of
their criminality appears at once.
It i§true that the act of an agent binds his principalbut czviliter, not crainialiter
Spoliation is a criminal act in the eye of a Court of
admiralty. Upon the whole then,
1.Tis was not a case which required further proof.
2. Concealment even of criminal papers is not a ground
to refuse further proof if the case required it; and 3. Thit.
papers were innocent.
This trad6 was within the exception of the order it
council of the 24th J'une, 1802, and therefore the proper-

SUPREME COURT

V. S.

tv was not liable to condemnation on account of Barnso'sbeiig a Spanish suuject, he being an inhabitant,of
TON
a neutral country, and so stated to be upon the face of
GJLCHRIST the papers. It- was a trade from an enemy's colony to
a neutral country. The papers therefore, in the eye of
T.
The
MAIVYD. a C-urt of admiralty, were perfectly innocent.
belthe
of
part
relinquish
to
right
a
has
council
in
Co. king
IS.
ligernt rights which the nation might claim according
t) the law of nations. He has done so. He has said
that the property of a Spanish subject, being an inhabitant of a neural country, shall not be'liable to- confiscation.
LIVINrGs-

&

If the papers had been destroyed, suspicion might
have been thrown upon the transaction, because their
innocence could not appiar But when found they showed Baruso's interest to be as free from capture as Livingston's.
-S.jA to the 6th exception.
We admit that something more than mere residence
is necessary to constitute national character We admit there must be an intent to trade. Time also is
a necessary ingredient. But no particular length of
time i§ required. Thie residence must be so long only
as to show' his real intention. It is not necessary that
he-shoulu embark ii all the trade of the country It is
sufficient if lie carry on a part of it. It is sufficient to
make it the trade of this country, if the benefits of it belong to this country ,and not to. Span. He employed
our ships, our seamen and our merchants, all of whom
were to iake a profit. It was a trade between a Spanish colony and the United States. Great Britain never compl.uined of such a commerce as this. She com,plained only of a commerce between the colony and the
inothe- countrv. If lie had cometo this country with
a view to the war, aitd to carry on a trade belligerent
in it's nature, or not usual in time of peace, there might
be som ground for the objection. But this commerce
was neutral in it's nature. The 0aburt meant to say
that if the trade was such that a neutral could not carry it on. then, &c. There was no evidence that he
came to carryon a trade which, as a neutral, he could
uot carry on. It'is true it was a trade which, as an

FEBIRUARY TERM i813.
Amecan) he could -notcarry on,. but that did not make LIVINGSthe tradb belligerent. The Spaiiish government might TON &
have permitted an American to carry it on, and it
GILwouldstill have been a neutral frade.
cIRts%
19.
4. As to tie 7th bill of exceptions..

If the question of Baruso's interest be a qustion oflaw, then we contend that lie had no such interest as
could falsify the war''apty.
He was not a partner. To constitute a partnership
there must be an universal participation in gain and
loss in. all events. But Ii some events lie was not to
participate in either. In one event only was he to. share
the gain, and in one only was he to participate in the
loss. He was not a joint owner of the cargo. In trover or replevin, lie could not have proved an interest.
If le had sold th(- cargo the vendee would have had no
title. If lie had given a note, in the name of all, he only
would have been bound. TJ'his interest was merely contingent, like that of a consignee in his commissions.
5- As to the sth bill of exceptions.
The warranty of neutrality was a protection to the
Derendants against all belligerent interests and belligerent appearances, and therefore it was not- necessary to
disclose the belligerent cove' of the real neutral interest. 'It is sufficient that the property insured was strictly and really neutral.
6. As to the 9th .exception..
The letter of Church and Deimill, stating that the
vessel was to trade under a license, was referred to in
the letter which ordered the insurance and wlick was
laid before t6ie Defendants. It is a principle of. law
that they are supposed to know what they had the
means of knowing and what it was their viterest to
know. It was proved that the letter of Church and
Demmill had been laid before them on a former day,
and when they were again referred to it, they ought to
have recollected its contents, or have asked for it again.
7 As to the lith bill of exceptions.

MARt'r.W
INS. EO.

SUPRED l
LIVINGs-

&
GIL-

TON

CHRIST

V.

COURT

.

S.

An usage cannot be against law, and yet we were
prevented from proving it, because it was conformable
to law. According to the opinion of the Court, we
were bound to prove that the usage was contrary to
law, before we could prove it by parol.

NARY'D.

I-s. Co.

S. As to the. i3th bill of exceptions.
The LDefendants were as much bound to know the
laws of the trade, as the usages of the trade.

io. As to the 2%th and 25th bills of exceptions.
The knowledge which the Defendants had of the
trade and jts usage at the time of underwriting trepolicy, authorized the Plaintiffs to Mse all the means necessary to make the voyage legal.
ii. As to the 2Sth bill of exceptions.
The case cited is, that if there be an edict under which
the belligerent does condemn, although unlawfully, it
ought to be disclosed.
But here was no such edict, the condemnation was
not only unlawful but unauthorized.
The Court ought not wholly to reject the opinion
prayed, if it oe not cxactly correct , because it leaves
the jury to infer that no part of it is correct. They
ought to go on and state what the law is.
.March ISth....MAuSHALL, Ch. J. after stating the
case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows
-This perplexed and intricate case, which is rendered
still more so by the manner in which it has been conducted at the circuits, h~s been considered by the Court.
Their opinion on the various points it presents will now
be given.
If theiqlestion on which the Court was divided be considered literally, the answer must undoubtedly be, that
the letter of the 25th of March, 180.6, contains no averynent that no person other than Livingston, Gilchrist,

FEBRUARY TERM i8

85

Griswold and Baxter, were interested in the return iivwts,
cargo of the Herkrier, nor that all the persons -Inte- TON. &
Gmrested therein were native Americans. This would be
perceived from an inspection of the letter itself, and there ciitrR1s
V.
would be no occasion for an application to the Cot
concerning its contents.

But the real unport of the

mARa.i'V.

question is this. Is the language of the letter such as ixs. co.
to be equivalent to an averment that the owners named
in it are the sole persons who were interested in tie re,
turn cargo? If it does amount to such an avermentj
then it, is a representation, and if it be untrue, its materiality to the risquep must determine its influence on tho
policy. A false representation, though no breach of the
contract, if material, avoids the policy on the ground
of frand. or because the insurer has been misled by it.
Upon reading the letter on which this insdrance was
made, the impression would probably be that the four
persons named in it were the sole owners of the return
cargo of the IMrkimer. The inference may fairly be
drawn from thi expressions employed. Such was probably the idea of the writer at the time. The writer
however might have, and probably had other motives
for his allusion to~other owners, than to convey the idea
'that there were'no others. The premium might in his
opinion be affected n some measure by stating the little
apprehension from capture, which was entertained by
others, and especially by that owner who was the supercargo. If, however, it was not supposed by Mr,
Gilchrist, that the persons named inhis letter were the
sole owners of the cargo, or if in fact they were not
the sole owners, he has expressed himself m so careless
a manner as to leave his letter open to misconstruction,
and, in the opinion of some of the judges, to expose
his contract to hazard in consequpnce 9 f. it,
Buttliat part of the Court which entertains this opinion,
Is also of opinionthat the letter oughtnotto be construed iito a representation of any interest to grow out of the voyage distinct from actual ownership of the cargo, "cT e
owters, says Mr. Gilchrmist are already insured against
the aangers of the seas' &c. His application was for
the owners, and when lie proceeds to state, that others
were concerned, he must be understood to pay that they
were concerned as owners. (Qonsequently if the lette.implies ,n averment, that lie has named all time owners.

&PREME COTURIU. S.
1IvU-GS-

tON &
GIL-

it implies nothing further, and ought not to be consfrued
into a representation, that-there were no. other persons
interested in the safe return of the cargo.

V.
;Others are of opinion, that to. constitute a represen.
uARY'D. tation there should be an affirmation or denial of some
i-s.
co. fact, odtan allegation which would plainly lead the-mind
to the Ame conilusion. If the expressions are anibiguous, the insurer ought to ask an explanation, and

not substitute is own conjectures for an alleged repre-

sentation. In this opinion the majority of the Court is
undenstood to concur. The instruction then applied
for by the counsel for the Plaintiffs, on which the Cir-

cuit judges, were divided, ought to have been given.
5th. A majority of the
the instruction prayed for
ought to have been given.
offiered in evidence by the

Court is also of opinion, that
as stated in the 5th exception
If the jury believed the facts
Plaintiffs, which were that by

the usage of the trade to Peru from any foreign port,

it was necessary for the shir to have on board, on her
return voyage, the Spamsh and other material papers
delivered by Baxter to Giles, then there was no such
concealment of said papers as can afft the right of the
Plaintif to recover in thins action. In general concealment of papers amounts to a breach. o warranty But
wnen the underwriters know, or, by the usage and cou ise
of the trade insured, ought to know, that certain papers
otght to be on board- for the purpose of protection in
one event, whicli i another, might endanger the proper'ty; they tacitly consent t:;at the papers shall be so
used as to protect the property The use of the Spaish papers was to give a Spanish character to the property in the Spanish ports, and, of the American paliers, to prove the American character of the property
to other belligerents. But to bave exhibited the Spanish papers to a British cruizer and thls to induce a
suspicion that the -property was belligerent, would have
been not less improper than to have exhibited the proofs
of Americai property in a portof Peru, and thus to defeat
the sole object for whi'h Spanish papers were necessarily taken on board.
6th. A maloritv of the Court is also of opinion, that
inider all the evidence n) the cause, Baruso, was to be

FEBRUARY TERM isi&.
considered as an American merchant, whether he carried .IVIxCSon trade generally, or confined himsdf to a trade from W'ON &
the United States to the Spanish provinceq. The CirGIL-..
cuit Court therefore erred in making the neutral 6hia- CHRIST
racter of Baruso to depend on the lind bf trade in winch
v.
he was engaged, instead of its depeliding on residence mA-Y'D;
and trade, whether general or limited;
INs. CO.
'th. The instruction of the' Circuit Court to which
the 7th exception was taken, is olwiously formed on a
plain and total misconstruction of the former opinionj
of this Court. In no part of that opinion has the idea
been indicated, that the interest of Baruso ,was a question solely for the consideration of the jury unaided by
the judge. It is certainly a question on which it was
proper tbr the judge to instruct the jury. The opinion,
given by this Court, was, that ",ifthejury should be of
opinion that the Spanish pap-rs, mentioned in the case,
were material to the risk, and that it .was not the regular usage of trade to take such papers on hoard, the
non.-isrlo?

-e of the fact, that they would be on boardi

would vih7 x the policy, but if the jury should he of
opinion that they were not material to the risk, or that
it was the regular usage of the trade to take such papers on board, that they would not vitiate the polipcy"
The instruction of the Circuit Court to the jury ought
to have conformed to this direction. Instead of doing
so, those instructions were toexclude entirely from the
consideration of the jury the regular usage of trade.
Thiey refuse to allow any influence to a fact, to which
this Court attacned much importance. It is the i;animous opinion of this Court, that in giving this instruction the Circuit Court erred.
Sth. The Circuit Court seem also to have varied
from the directions formerly given by this Court, in the
opinion to which the 8th exception is taken. This
Court placed the innocence or guilt of haviig on board
the Spanish papers, mentioneu in the case, on the regu.
lar usage of trade, the Circuit Court has made fheir innocence to depend on their b ing necessary
The.counsel for the Defendants contends, that this
is a distinction without a difference;- but it is impogsible to say what difference this distinction migfht make

VOL.VJF.

f69

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ivirxs- with the jury It is also the opipion of this Court that.
TON & in estimating the materiarity of the papers to the risk,
their effect, taketi together, should be considered not
GILCHIIST the effect of any one of them taken by itself.
9tli. The opinioq 3vhich the Court refused to give. to
.AR'D.
iNs. co. which refusal the 9Th exreption is taken, depends on 'several distinct propositions ;hilich must be separately
considered.
The letter, on which this insurance was made, contains a direct reference-to a previous letter written by
Church and Demmill which was laid before the bonfpany, for-a description of the ship. The first question
to be considered is, did this reference make it the duty
.of the directors to see that letter, and are they, without
further proof, to be considered as having read it. The
letter Avas addressed to, and it is to be presumed remamed in the possession of, the agent who made this
insurance.
It is a general rule, that a paper, which expressly refers to another paper within the powerof the party, gives
nojice of'the contents of that other paper. No reason is
perceived for' excepting this case from the rule. It is
fairly to be presumed that, on reading the letter of Gilchrist. the board of directors reqired tfhe agent of the
Plaitiffs to produce the 'letter of Church and Demmill,
unless they retained a recollection of it. In that letter
they were informed that the vessel had sailed for Lima,
with liberty to go to one other port in South America,
and that ",she had permission to trade there."
Whatwas the amount of the information communicated by this letter ?
The permission to trade was unquestionably a pernlission granted by the authority of the country. It was a
permission from the Spanish government. But whether
th-s permission was evidenced by a license, or-by other
means, was to be decided by other testimony, whether
it conveyed notice to the underwriters that such a license was on board the ship, depends, in the opinion of
part of the Court, on the usage of the trade. Those, who
rPntertain this olinion, tlnk, that as this was submitted

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.
to the jury, the Court committed no error in refusing
to say that the Defendants were to be considered as
knowing thAt the Hlerkimer sailed with a Spanish license on board. In estimating th'e increase of risk, it
was certainly the duty of the jury to consider it as a
voyage known to tihe underwriters t&be carried on for
the purpose of trading to JAma, and that the Herkimer
had such papers on board as were usual in such a trade,
but whether the license be such a paper or not, the jury
,'vere to judge as of other facts.
A majority of the Court, however, is of a different opimon. The underwriters, having full notice that the
voyage was permitted, might fairly infer that it was licensed by the Spanish government, because in no other
way would it be pe.rmitted. The whole question turned
upon the construction of a written document which it
belonged to the Court to make.
11th & 13th. The i1th & 13th exceptions may properly be considered together, since they are taken to
opinions given on the samu subject, ant] do not ess'ntamlly
ueach other. The Circumt Court appears to
vary from
that the general usage and course of
supposed
have
trade could not be given in evidence, or, if given in evinence, ,umigt to be disregbarded, if the jury hould be
of opinion that such usage was founded on the laws or
edicts of the .gov.-iinient of the country where the usage
prevailed. That is not the opinion of this Court. The
usage may be proved by parol, and the effect of the
usage remains the same, whether it originated in an
.edict or in instructions given by the government to its
officers. Any eoinlectures, which the jury or the witnesses may, make on this subjert, can be of no importance, and ought to have no influence on the case. Neither can it be more necessary to give notice of a usage
found'ed upon statute, than of a usage founded on instructions. The Circuit Court therefore erred in directing
the jury that the underwriters were not bound to take
notice of the usage of trade, if they should be of onimon that the trade was prohibited by the law of Spain.
20th. The opinion of the Circuit Court to which the
20th exception was taken, appears to be. entirely cor
rect.

IivnGos-

wow &
GIL-

CHRIST

v.
rADY'D.

iNs. co

B40
XVixasTON &
GIL-'-

cn1AsT
v.
mARY'D.

ixs. Co.

SUPRVME COURT U. S.

24th & 25th. The 24th & 25th exceptions are to tho
same opinon somewhat varied in form, and rendered
more explicit, oil the application of the Plaintiffs, than
it haid ben in the instruction given on the motion of the
Def-tndants. It is essentially the same with that to
which the 7th.exception was taken, and appears to
have been founded oil a total misapprehension of the
former opinion given by this Court. In that opinion it
was expressly stated, that such papers as, conformably
to the ri-gular usuge of trade, were to be taken on board
a vessel, would not vitiate the policy ",The acts,done by the insrired to avoid seizure and confiscation
-under the laws and regulations of the Spanish governm'-fit," which are mentioned in the application made tb
the Court by the counsel for the Defendants, comprebend these papers. This -question therefore was deci(led by this Court on the former argment of this cause,
and the Court is now unanimously of opinion, that the
Circuit Court erred, both in granting the prayer of the
Defendants, and refusing that of the Plaintiffs.
28th. In the opinion, to which the 28th exceptibn was
taken, tins Court concurs with the Circuit Court. The
direction, asked by the counsel for the Plaintiffs, ought

not t6 have been given. It is expressed in terms wich,
if,assented to, might lnisulle the jury Rightful capture according to the law of nations might be construed
to mean capture for a cause which would justify condemnation according to the law of nations as construed in
the United States. But capture will always be made on
suspicion of what the belligerent construes to be cause
of forfeiture, and capture authorizes abandonment.
Such af ts or omissions therefore, of the Plaintiffs, as
would induce a capture and detention according to the
rommoni
pi -tice of the belligerents, are proper for
th consideration of the jury in estimating the risk.
This Court is of opinion, that there is error in the
procef.Aings of the Circuit Court in this cause, in refuslne to give- the opinion on which that Court was dirided , and also it the olnions to which the 5tb, 6th,
7th, 8th. 9th, t1h, 13th, 24th and 25th exceptions are
taken. This Court doth therefore reverse and annul
the Julgment rendered by the Circuit Court, and doth
remand the ,pause to the said Court that a vemnrefacias,

FZBRUART TERM Isis.

5A

de qo v may beawarded, and other proceedings had

therein acdording to law.
STORY,

J-

NIVINGs&

TON

CHRIST
-b.

Lioncur in the judgdient of reversal'%nch las .jist mARY'D.
been pronounced. But as in some inStances fEdiffer iNs. Co.
from the opinions expressed by the majority, and in
others I concur upon grounds somewhat variant, I have
ventured-to express- my own views at large upon the
important points which have been so fully and ably- argued. "
The first question which presents itself is on the- certfficate of division. To constitute a representation,
there should be an explicit. affirmation or.,denial of a
fact, or such an allegation as would irresistibly lead the
mind.to the. same conclusion. If the expressions are
ambiguops, or such as the parties might fairly use without intending to authorize a particular conclusion, the
insured ought not to he bound by the.c6njectures, or
calculations of probability, of the-underwriter. The lat.
tei, 'if tin sucli case he deems the facts maferial, ought
to make further inquiries. , In the letter of the 26ti OMirch, 180-6, there are n6 -vords"negativg the existence of other ifiterests than those of thi Plaintiff's and
Metsrs. Griswold and Baxte.
The negative, if any, is to be made out by mere inference or probable conjecture, And as there is no i'ea,
sbn to suppose that,the statement was made with that
intent, I am satisfied that it did not'amount'to~a representation negativing the existence of such interests.
The,Cou~t below ought therefore to have given the direction prayed for'by the Plaintiffs' counsel.
But, even admitting that the letter did contalin the representation' contended for, I am well satisfied that it was
substantially true. It is not pretended that any pther
person except Baruso had any interest in the cargo,
and it is very clear that, whatever might be his contingent interest in the possible profits of the voyage, he
had no vested interest in the cargo itself. He was not
k.partner, for he wanted one of the essential eharacteristics of partnership, a direct vested interest in the
joint funds. He possessed a mere possibility which, in

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the successful termination of the voyage, might entitle
him to a right of action for a proportion of the profits;
or, in a specified case of election, to take a proportion
of the property itself. But it was not such an interest
v.
as was liable fo capture, or such as could be claimed or
MARY'D. condemned in a pize Court. It was less certain than
I S. co. even a respondentia or bottomry interest, wich have
not been allowed to be asserted before' the prize jurisdiction. The commissions of a supercargo upon,the
sales might, with as much propriety, be deemed a vested
interest in the cargo consigned to his care.
1.xvINGs-

TON &
GILCHRIST

I pass over, for the present, the fifth exception.
The sixth exception points to the national character
of Baruso. As Baruso emigrated from Spain to the
United States during a time of peace, no questiop arises
as to the ability of a belligerent subject to chnge is
national character "flagrante beo.
It is clear by the law of nations that the national charp ter of a person, for commercial purposes, depends
upon his domicil. But tins must be carefully distinguishen from the national character of his trade. For
the party may be a belligerent subject and yet engaged
in neutral trade, or he may be; a neutral subject and
yet cigaged in hostile trade. Some of the cases respecting the colomal and coasting trade 0f enemies have
turned upon this distinction.
But whenever a person is bona fide domiciled in a
particular country, the character of the country Irresistibly attaches to hnm. The rule has been applied
with equal impartiality in favor and against neutrals
and belligerents. It is perfectly immaterial what is the
trade in which the party is engaged, or whether lie be
,engaged in any If he be settled bona fide in a country
with the intention of indefinite residence, he is, as to all
forein countries, to be deemed a subject of that country Without doubt, in order to ascertain tIns domicil,
it is proper to take nito consideration the situation, the
employment, and the character of the individual. The
-trade in which lie is engaged, the family that le possesses, and the transitory or fixed character of his busmness, are ingredients which may properly be weighed
4n deciding on the nature of an equivocal residence, or

FEBRUARY TERM iSAs:

54S

domicil. But when once that dom-cil kS fixed- and as- L.IvIxNTo1 &
certained, all other circumstances become immaterial.
G I-

The prayer of the Plaintiffs (which was refused by CHRIST
IV.
the Court) in effect asked that if Baruso was bona fide
mAIIY'D.
he
domnci1lsewliere,
no
had
settled in New York,-and
was not to be considered as a belligerent. Thd' Court iNs. Co.
in effect declared that the character of his trade, and not
him mere domicil, fixed his national character. There,
was tb-efore error both in the refusal and in the direction of the Court.
The seventh exception arose from a misconception of
the opinion of the Supreme Court.. The Court did not
mean to intimate that whether an interest increased the
risk or not was a mere question of fact for the jury.
On the contrary. the Court considered that it was a
mixt question of law and fact on which the Court were
hound to direct the jury as to the law. As the Court
below were of opinion that Baruso was not ajoint owner of the cargo, (in which opinion I concur) the question
ought not to have been left to the jury in the broad
and unqualified terms which are used. Strictly and legally speaking, Baruso had no interest in the cargo-;
and therefore - his interest could not be material tqthe
risk ;" and if the point, meant to have been left to the
jury, was, whether the concealment of the name or the
possibility of interest of Baruso increased the risk it
should have been left with proper directions as to the
effect of the usage of trade and neutral character of
Earuso in settling thAt question. If the usage of trade
allo'ed or rquired such cover, or if Baruso were a
neutral, I-am not prepared to say that, in point of law,
the risk could thereby have been increased. It would
have been a mere-inquiry into the possible hazards from
the rapacity of belligerents, or the possible effects of
one Spanismh ame instead of another. Men reason diffqrently-upon such speculations.
Nor am I prepared to say that it is ever necessary
for the assured to declare the national character of
other distinct interests engaged in, the saipe adventure.
unless called for by the underwriter. If such interests'
are not warranted or r6pregented to be neutral, the underwritbr must be considered as calculating upon the

SUPREME C0URr U. S.
kvIvits- possible existence of belliger'ent niterests, or as waving
TON &
GILCHRIST

any inquiry

The fifth and eighti eceptions may -be considered
together as they are founded upon the ilegal efict ofMARY'D. the taking on board and'Ahe concealment of the papers,
ins. co. by-Baxter, from the belligerent cruizer. The prayer
of the Plaintiffs in the fifth exc6ption -was for a direction that under all the circumstances of the case there
was no such concealment as would avoid-the Planfiff;
right to recover. And if, in point of law, the Plaintif~s
were entitled to such direction, the Court erred in their
refusal, although the direction, afterwards givem by tb
Court might, by inference and argument, in the npinion
i.of
this Court, be pressed to the same extent. For 'he
party has a rtght to a direct and positive instruction ;
and the jury are not to be left to believe in distinctions
where none exist, -orto reconcile propositions by mere
argument and inference. It would be a dangerous
practice, and tend to mislead instead of enlightenmga
jury
v.

The opinion of the Court in effect was. that the concealment- of any papers, whidi were necessary to be-on
board by the usage ind course of. the 'trade, did not affect the Plaintiff's right to recover But (irconformity With the prayer of the Defendants in the eighth exceptionj that if any of the papEys increased the'risk,
and were not 'necessary by the usage and course of
trade, and the fact, that such papers,would accompany
the cargo, was not disclosed to the underwriters, the
Plaintiffs were not entitled to recover.
It is untoubtedlv true that the warranty of neutrality
extends, not barely to the fact of the property being
neutral, but that the conduct of the voyage shall be such
as to protect and preserve its neutral character. It
must also be conceded that the acknowledged belligerent right of search draws after it a right to the production and examination of the ship's papers. And if
these be denied, and the property is thrown into jeopardy' thereby, there can be no reasonable doubt that such
conduct constitutes a breach of-the warranty
Conceahnent and even spoliation of papers, do not
ordinarilh induce a condemnation of the property, but

PEBRTARY 'TEiAM I8ts;
they always afford cause of suspicion, and justify cap. tiv 4sture and detentiom In many cases the penal effects TON &
GLextend in reality, though indirectly, to- confiscations
For if the caupe labor under heavy doubts, if the coii, itIRIST
v.
duct be not perfectly fair, or the character of the parties
are not fully disclosed upon tihe papers before the Court, MAXiY'D
the concealment or spaliation of papers is made the Ns. co.
ground of refusing further proof to relieve the obscurity of the cause, and all the fatal consequences of a hostile taint follow on the denial.
But 'the question must always be whether thefe be i
concealment of papers material to the preservation of
the neutral character. It would be too much to contend
that every idle and accidental, or even meditated, concealment of papers, manifestly unimportant in every.
view before the prize tribunal, should dissolve the obli'&.
gation of the policy And if by the usage and course
of trade it be necessarj or allowable to have on board
spurious papers .covered with a belligerent character,
whatever effect it may have upon the rights of the
searching cruizer', it would be difficult to sustain the
position, that the concealment of such papers, which, if
disclosed, would completely cotnpr,;mit or destroy the
neutral character. would be itbreach of the Warranty
In such case the disclosure of the papers produces the
same inflamed suspicions, the same legal right of capture and detention, the same claim for further proof,
and the same right to deny it, as the. concealment
would. If the concealment would induce the conclusion
that the interest was enemy's covered with a fictitious
neutral garb, the disclosure would not in such a case
less authorize the same conclusion. In such case it
Would depend upon the sound discretion of the Courtp
tinder all the circumstances-of the case, to allow the veil
to be drawn aside, and admit or deny the Claimant to
iissume his real character. Whenever, therefore, the
underwriter has knowlege and assents to the cover of
idcutral property uqder belligerent papers, (as he does
in all cases where the usage of thetrade demands it)he
necessarily waves his rights under the warranty, so far as
the visiting cruizer may demand the disclosure of such
papers. In other words, lie authorizes the concealment
in all cases where it is not necessary to assume the.belli:,
gerent national character for the purpose of protection.
""o
VOL. VII.

SUPREME COURT U. S,
If this view be correct it is Clear that the Couit
ought to have given the direction prayed for by the
Plaintiffs. Sitting here under a clause in, the policy
whicl enables us to look behind the sentence of condemnation, we gee that the property was really neutral;
v.
siyv'. and if the jury believed the evidence, the concealment
iNs. co. was of papers which were authorized by the course of
trade for the voyage, and so far tm. gliing a hostile
character, was the only means ofkpreoventing a strong
presumption of that character. If we but consider the
known course of decisions in the British- Courts on
questions of this nature, we shall find that, independent
of the question of the neutral or hostile character of the
ostensible owner, the trade between the belligerent mother country and its colony affects with condemnation
the property engaged in it, although such property-be
neutral, and there be an interposition of a neutral port
in the course of the voyage. On examining the papers
in this case it will be found that they point, though obscurely, to such an ultimate destination. And at all
events the existence of contradictory papers, one selt,
American, the-other Spanish, would, in a Spanish trade,
afford an almost irresistible inference in a prize Court
that the property was really Spanish--Xoscitur ab ortguc. It would take its character from its origin.

LZVINGSTON &
GILCHRIST

But it is immaterial, in my view, whether a prize
Court would under such circumstances acquit or con.,
demn. When thecover of a Spanish character was allowed, it was allowed for the purposes of protectionri
and the disclosure of it was not required elsewhere than
in the Spanish dominions. One of the risks against
,which the insured meant to guard himself was, in my
judgment, a loss on account of the use of the Spanish
character a loss which might have been more plausibly
resisted, if there had been a disclosure instead of a concealment of it.
The Court also erred in declaring (in the eighth exception) that the taking on board of any of the papers,
which were not necessary by the usage of the trade, if
the risk thereby were increased, avoided the Plaintiffs'
right to recover. The effect of the whole papers should
have been taken together. The evidence did not authorize the Court to consider and separate the effect of

FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

54,7.

each single paper. If one unnecessary paper might TIVINGAhave increased the risk, if singly considered, and yet, if TON &
accompanied by the others, it would not have had that GILeffect, certainly the existence of that paper with the CHRIST
others would not have destroyed the right of the PlainV.
tiffs. Yet the opinion of the Court would have autho- MARY'D.
rized the jury to draw a: different conclusion.
INS. CO.
The Court should have directed the jury that if the
papers were authorized by the usage and course of the
trade, the concealment of thom, under the circumstances,
did not vitiate the policy, and that if some were authorized and others not, yet the possession or concealment
of the latter with the former did not vitiate the policy,
.unless the unauthorized, so connected with the authorized, papers increased the risk.
The question, presented by the 9th exception, is whether the Defendants are to be considered as having notice that the voyage insured was to be pursued under a
Spanish license. The letter of the 26th March, 1806,
expressly refers to the letter of 17th of February, 1806,
which had been laid before the underwriters, and they
must therefore be deemed conversant of all the facts
therein stated. A party shall be -taken to have notice
of all facts of which lie has the means of knowledge in
hwq own possession, or is put directly upon inquiry by
reference to documents submitted to his inspection. In
the letter of the 17th February the ship is declared to
have a perinsszon for the voyage, which in this trade
can be understood in no other sense than a license. The
Court ought'therefore to have given the direction prayed for by the Plaintifri.
The Court erred in the opinion expressed in the 1tth.
exception. The course and usage of trade may in all
cases be proved by parol, whether such course and
usage of trade arise out of the edicts or out of the instructions of the government, and whether tite trade be
allowed or prohibited by such edicts or instructions.
The Court erred also in the latter part of tiel direc
tion to the jury under the 13th exception. It was inmaterial whether the trade was or was not prohibited
by the laws of Spain. In either case the underwriters

SUPREME COURT U. 0,
were bound to take notice of the usage and course of
TN & the trade. The public laws of a country, affecting the
cours of the trade with that country, are considered to
GILbe equally within the knowledge and notice of all the
cunvrtri
parties to a policy on a voyage to such country.
V.

UjVINGS-

BIARY'0.
IS.

co.

The.20th exception cannot be supported.
nion of the Court was entirely correct.

The opir

The 21th and 25th exceptions ougut to be considered
together in order to present the opiron of the Court
below with its full fect. It is clear that any acts done
by the assured in tho voyage according to the course
and usage of the trade, although such.acts may increase
the risk, do not vitiate the policy This opinibn was
pronounced by this Court on the former argument of
this case, in refer- n" to the Spanish papers to which
the present appli-ation of the Defendants obviously
pointed. The Court therefore err d in granting the
prayer of the Defendants, and in refusing that of the
Plaintiffs.
The last (t!:e 28th) exception cannot be sustained.
The propositiop is conceived in too general terms, and
might mislead the jury, Any acts or omissions of the
insured or his agents which, according to the known
edicts or decisions of the belligerents, though no according to the law of nations, would inhance the danger
of capture or condemnation, might. if such acts or omissions were unrea.onable, unnecessgry or wanton, form
a sound objection to the right of recovery The insured
can have no right to jeopardize the property by any
conduct which the fair objects of the voyage, or the
Vsage of tlje tra4e do not Justify.

YOUNG v. GRUNDY.
b rch

lath.____

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Althoupgh the
roson Court for the District of Columbia, sitting in Alexanof
iasso- as a Court of.Equity.
a rrorfail, by'dl~la,
of:note

