FEBRUARY TERM 1813.

389

pired. And that a suspended operation to the 20th CARGO
May, would be wholly inconsistent with the words oF BRIG
made use of in the 4th section of the adt of TMay, 1810, .'URORA
T,.
viz. "shall be revived and have full force and operaon
u.STATE.s
commenced
tion;" and therefore, that its operation
the 2d Feb. 1811.
Some objections have been made to the sufficiency of
the libel, because it does not negative the fact of Amenrican property. But on that subject, we are of opinion,
that in no case can it be necessary to state in a libel,
any fact which constitutes the defence of the Claimant,
or a ground of exception of the operation of the law on
which the libel is founded.

THE SCHOONER HOPPET AND CARGO

1813.

7T.

THE UNITED STATES.

PC-.

19th.

Absent....LIvINGSTON, .T.and TODD, T.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the: dis-,wines, the
of
trwt Court for the district of Orleans, (exercising the Produce
France, im-

jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States,)

ported into the

States
Uiiited
forethe
noncondemning the schooner Hoppet and her cargo as for- bb
feited to the United States under the act of congress inercour
of March i, 1809, vol. 9, p. 243, entitled cc An act to act, re-export"Interdict the commercial intarcourso between the Unt- 'dto a Darih
"c ted States and Great Britain and France and their sold to a metchant of that
",dependencres, and for other purposes."
phant oa
thence export.

"to ed to ew OrThe 4th section of that act makes it unlawfulthere
lans ori

"9Import into the United States or the territories

"of, from any foreign'port or place whatever, any of that act of
cgoods, wares or merchandize whatever, being of the ,n'e "w"
,growth, produce., or manufacture of France or of avy of tare under
"her colonies or dependencies," or of any country in that law.

tle possession of France.

tion in the
"adnnltj fdr

By the'Sth section it is enacted, "fthat wheneover any afuorfit.re
Sar"qleor aiticleq, the inportatioli of which is prohibi- substanial
" ted by this act;shall, after the 20th of May, be Import-statement f

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SuooWERc"'cd into the' Unitea States or the territories thereof,
HO"EP.T "contrary, to the. true intent and meaning of this actb
& CARGO " such articles, as well-as all other articles on board the
V.
"same ship or vessel belonging to the owner of such
U.STATES. "1prohibited articles, shall be. forfeited."
the oftener.
A And by the 6th section it is enacted, ";that if any artigeneral
referenee to the "cle or articles, the Importation of which is prohibited

" by this act, shall, after the 20th of May, be put on
; board of any ship or vossel," sc with intention to imIf the informa- "port the same into the United States or the territories
tiro be defe-tt
thereof, contrary to the true intent, and meaning of
tireon ehat
respect, the
" tfiis act, .and with the knowledge of the owner or masdefect is not 6ter
of such 5bip or vessel," "6such ship or vessel
curod by evideuce of the "shall be forfeited."
provisions of
qbe statute is
not sufficient.

facts omitted
to be javerre

in the infpr.

mstion.

The
must decree
be serndum ale-

gatn, as well

~~tataiU

T

The information against the -vessel did not aver that
the goods were put on board the vessel with intention
to import the same into the United States or the territories thereof contrary to the act,. with the knotledge of
the owner or master of the vessel, nor did the information against the cargo state that such of the goods as
were not prohibited belmged to the owner of the prohibited
goods, but both informations averred generally that the
goods were imported contrary to the 4th, 5th and 6th
sections of the act.
It appeared from the evidence and admissions in the
ease that the wines, which constituted the principal
part of the cargo, were the produce of France, and had
been shipped from New York to the Danish Island of
St. Bartholomews, where they were purchased by a
merchant df that plAce and shipped to New Orleans.
It did notappear certainly whether they had been imported into New York since the 90th of May, referred
to in the act of Co.ngress.
HARpER, for the .0ppellants,
Contended that it was probable from all the circumstances that the wines had been imported into the United
States before the prohibition, and if so they had become
incorporated with the general commerce of the country,
and had lost their national character as French produceHe also-insisted on the defect in th nmfo mations, a
stated above.

IFEBRUARY-TERM iMiS
PzNKNilY,

Attorney General, and L.w, contra.

30cKoONE
HOPT

The letter of the law is too tlain to admit of construc- & c _oo
T. x
tion. .Thesewines never could cease to be the produce
of France. They were imported from a foreign place U.sT-.TES
into a territory of the United States during the prohibition by law. If they had acquired an American character, it was lost by receiving the drawback. It does
not appear that they, were imported into New York
before the prohibition. If they had*been, the proof
was so easy, that the warit of it creates the strongest
presumption that the fact was not so.
The intent is only to be'known by the act of the owners. They were bound to know the laws of the country
to which they were trading. It is sufficient for thei
United States to prove a knowledge that the goods were
put on board for that voyage,
Feb. 271171....MARSLAIJL,

Ci. .T. delivered the opinion

ef the Court as follows
This is an appeal from a sentence of the Court for
the district of Orleans condemning the schooner Hopper
and her cargo, as forfeited to the United States for vie.
lating the non-intercourse law.
In the district Court two reformations were filed by
the attorney for the United States, onq claiming thle
ship as being forfeited, and the other claiming the sargo.
Objections have bedn made to each of these informations
which will be separately considered.
Thp information against the vessel charges in substance, that while the act, entitled " An act to mterdieb
commercial intercourse," &c. was in force, certain goods
of the growth, prod uice, or manufacture of France, were
imported into the Uniied States, to wit into the port
of New Orleans, In- thiesaid vssel from some foreign
port or place, to. wit. from St. Bartholomews contrary
to, and in violatt =-if the 4th, 5th and 6th sections of
the act. By reain -of which, and by virtue of the act
of congress,- enititled "An act, &c. the swid vessel her
tackle, apparel and furniture have become forfeited to
the United States.

392
soioowNn
HOPPF.T
& CARGO

v,

SUPREME COURT U. 9.

Tile -charge contained in this informnation, and the
only charge it contains is, an importation into the Urnted States of certain prohibited articles while the prohibitory act was in force. How far does this crime af-

I.STATES. fect the

vessel'?

This question must be answered by the law. The
6th section of theact enacts in substailce, that if any article, the importation of which is prohibited, shall be put
on board of any ship, "&c. with intention to import the
same into the United States or the territories thereof,
contrary to the trueA intent and meaning of this act, and
with tle knowledge of the owner or master of such. ship,
&c. such ship, &c. shall be forfeited.
This is the only section of the act which imposes a
forfeiture on the vessel. It will be. perceived that the
crime consists in the prohibited articles being laden on
board a ship with uztent to be imported into the United
States, and with the knowledge of the owner or master of
the vessel. A union of a lading with the intention to irport, and'with the knowledge of the owner or master, is necessary to constitute the crime. Without these essentjal ingredients, the particular offence, which alone inc'urs alforfeiture, cannot be committed.
In the information under consideration neither of
these offences is charged, It is neither alleged that the
prohibited goods were put on board the ship. with intention to be imported into the United States, nor with the
knowledge of the owner or master.
The information against the cargo charges in substance,'that certain prohibited articles and certain other
articles not stated to be prohibited, were brought into the
United States, to wit: into the port of New Orleans, while
the act, entitled 6c An act to interdict commercial intercourse" &c. was in force, from some foreign port or
place, by reason of which, and by virtue of the act, the
whole cargo of the Hoppet has become forfeited.
The 5th section of the act, under vhich this -prosecution was sustained, inflicts forfeiture on the prohibited
articles imported contrary to law, and also on - all
other articles on board the same ship or vessel' boat,

VEBRUARY TERM 1SS,

393

k'aft or carriage, belonging to the owner of such prohibi- SCHOO1ii4
HOPPET
ted articles.
& CARGO

iv,
Thie innocentarticles are liable to forfeiture only where
is.u.TAT.
It
articles.
prohibited
the
of
owner
the
to
they belong
'this association, and this alone, which constitutes their
crime. Their being in the shme vessdI exposes them to
no forfeiture unless they bdong to the same person.

In the case under consideratidbi the information does
not allege that the innocent and the prohibited article.
did not belong to the same person.
The first question mado for the consideration of the
Court is this ,-Will this information support a sentence of condemnation pronounced against the vessel
and the innocent part of the.cargo?
That the information states a case by which no forfeiture of the ship or the innocent part of the cargo has
been incurred, unless its defectiveness be cured by the
allegation that the act was done contrary to, and in violation of the provisions of the statute, has been already
fully shown.
It is not eontrovertet that in all proceedings in Courts
of common law, either against- the person or tl;e thing
for penalties or forfeitures, the allegation that the act
charged was committed in violation of law, or of the
provisions of a particular statute will not justify condemnation, unless, independent ofthis allegation, a case
be stated which 'shows that the law has been violated.
The reference to the statute miiy direct the attention of,
the Court, and of the accused, to the particular statute
by which the prosecution is to be sustained, but- forms
no part of ,the description of the offence. The importance of this principle to a fair adminxstration ofjustice,
to that certainty introduced, and demanded by the free
genius of our Institutions in all prosecutions for offences against the laws, is too apparent to require elucidation, and the principle itself is too familiar not to suggest itself to every gentleman of the profession.
Does this rule apply to information in a Court of
admiralty?
-1VOL. VIL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SClz0oNii
It is not cortended that all-those technical niceties which
HoPPeFrare uninportint in themselves, and standing only on pre& CARGO c~dents of which the reason cannot be discerned, should
V.
be transplanted from the Courts of common law into
U.STATE.s..the Courts of admiralty.
But a rule so essential to justice and fair proceeding as that which requires a substantial statement of the offence upon which the prosecution is founded, must be the rule of every Court where
justice is the object, and cannot be satisfied by a general reference to the provisions of a statute. It would'
require a series of clear and unequivocal precedents to
show that this rule is dispensed with in Courts of
admiralty, sitting for the trial of offences against mumcipal law.
It is, upon these and other reasons, the opinion of the
Court, that the information is not made good by the allegation that the offence was committed against the provsions of certain sections of the act of congress.
Is it cured by any evidence showing that in point
of fact the vessel and cargo are liableto forfeiture ?
The, rule that a man shall not be charged with one
crime and convicted of another, may sometimes cover
real guilt, hut its observance is essential to the preservation of.innocence. It is only a modification of this
rule, that the accusation on which the prosecution is
founded, should state the crime which is to be proved,
and state such a crime as will justify the judgment to he
pronounced.
The -reasons for this rule are,
ist. That the party accused may know against what
charge to direct his defence.
2d. That the Court may see with judicial eyes that
the fact, alleged to have been committed, is an offence
against the laws, and may also discern the punishment
annexed by law to the specific offence. These reasons
apply to prosecutions in Courts of *admiraltywith as
much force as to prosecutions in other Courts. It ig
therefore a maxim of the civil law that a decree must be
secundumalegataas well as secundwm yrobata. It would

FEBRUARY TERM 18Us.
seeln to be a maxim, essential to the due administration SCHOONER

of justice in all courts.

It is the opinion qf the Court that this information

HOPPET
& CARGO
T.

will not justify a sentence condemning the schooner U.sTA3ES.

Hoppet and that part of 'her -cargo which is not alleged
to be of the growth, produce, or manufacture of either
France or Great Britain, or the dependencies of either
of those powers, whatever thefact may be.

There are certain wines imported in this vessel -alleged to be of the growth, produce, or manufacture of
Fratice. These wines -were exported from the United
States to St. Battholomews, xhiere they were purchased
by the consignee and shipped to New Orleans. It is
contended, that having been imported into the United
States, previous to the passage of the non-intercourse
law, their exportation and re-importation does not subject them to the penalties of that law. But the.Cqurt Lq
unanimously of opinion that they come completely within the provisions of the act of congress.
It is the opinion of the Court, that there is no error in
that part of the sentence of the district Court of Orleans,
which condemns the wines in the information mentioned as forfeite& to the United States, but that there is error in that part of the sentence which condemns the
schooner Hoppet and the residue of her cargo.
This Court doth therefore adjudge atid order that so
much of the sentence of the district Court as condemns
the schooner Hoppet and the thirty-five hogsheads of
molasses, five barrels of molasses, twelve dozen of cocoa
nuts and twelve pounds of starch, part of the cargo of
the said schooner, be and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled, and the said sentence, as to the residue of
the cargo, is in all things affirmed.

