SUPREME COURT U. 0,
were bound to take notice of the usage and course of
TN & the trade. The public laws of a country, affecting the
cours of the trade with that country, are considered to
GILbe equally within the knowledge and notice of all the
cunvrtri
parties to a policy on a voyage to such country.
V.

UjVINGS-

BIARY'0.
IS.

co.

The.20th exception cannot be supported.
nion of the Court was entirely correct.

The opir

The 21th and 25th exceptions ougut to be considered
together in order to present the opiron of the Court
below with its full fect. It is clear that any acts done
by the assured in tho voyage according to the course
and usage of the trade, although such.acts may increase
the risk, do not vitiate the policy This opinibn was
pronounced by this Court on the former argument of
this case, in refer- n" to the Spanish papers to which
the present appli-ation of the Defendants obviously
pointed. The Court therefore err d in granting the
prayer of the Defendants, and in refusing that of the
Plaintiffs.
The last (t!:e 28th) exception cannot be sustained.
The propositiop is conceived in too general terms, and
might mislead the jury, Any acts or omissions of the
insured or his agents which, according to the known
edicts or decisions of the belligerents, though no according to the law of nations, would inhance the danger
of capture or condemnation, might. if such acts or omissions were unrea.onable, unnecessgry or wanton, form
a sound objection to the right of recovery The insured
can have no right to jeopardize the property by any
conduct which the fair objects of the voyage, or the
Vsage of tlje tra4e do not Justify.

YOUNG v. GRUNDY.
b rch

lath.____

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Althoupgh the
roson Court for the District of Columbia, sitting in Alexanof
iasso- as a Court of.Equity.
a rrorfail, by'dl~la,
of:note

FEBRUARY TERM 18is.,
Young brought a bill in equity.against Grundy to be YouiG
-.
relieved from a judgment-at law, obtained by Grundy
against him on a prorpissory nQte given by him in Vir- GRuNDY.
ginia, to one William Chbmbers from whom it passed,
of the
by several intermediate indorsemeuts, to Grundy. It .rason
fiueof the
was given in 1795 for part of the purchase money of a payee to perlarge tract of land in Virginia, winch Chambers and foa his part
0' the agree.others cntracted to sell and convey to Young. It was meet t2on
been
which it was
afterwards liccoveredtliat Chambers and others had
yet if a
imposed upon, and thit they had title only to a very g0von,
new agreesmall part of the land they had sold to Young, where- ment as a subfor the
upon a new agreement was entered into on the 6th Sep- stitute
old one be
teniber, 1798, between Chambers and others and Young, ent.red ito
the
by which the original contract was rescinded ana; corn-1 between
original partief
pensation made to Young for the injury he had sustain- oriinal prS
ed by their breach of contract, and provis:on was made Ls filture of
to reimburse Iin the monies he had paid and to take thsoriginal
up paper of his, equivalent to that which was then out, createsnoeqin favor of
standing, and which lie had issued for the original pur- ty
the maker of
chase money.

the note against the in-

Young, in his bill contended, that Chambers and oth- dorsee, even.
ers Imd not complied with this new agreement, but that iglwg_
they owed hun more than enough to cover tlls note.
In the Court below the injunction was dissolved, and
upon final hearing the bill was dismissed. Young appealed to this Court.
E. L Mr.n, for the Appellant,
Contended, that tijere was an original defect of consideration for this note, which, according to the laws of
Virgina. followed it into the hands of the present 1ioldcr. Laws of firginia, vol. i, p. 36-1, P Thns. *97,
Thrtou v. Benson-i, Dall. 23, Wheeler -v. Hughes' e'r
2, ffash. 233, V'orton. v. Rose-6, Cranch, 20o, Sle-wart
,

Andf rson.

SwAw , contra.
There is no ground of equity as to Grundy.
There was no original want of consideration. Young
held the bond of the payee to convey the land, and had

SUPREME COURT U. S.
YOUNG

V.
GRUNDY.

his remedy upon that bond. The new contract was a
substitute for the old one, and was made after Grundy
became the holder of the note without notice of any defeet of consideration. By the new agreement it was
understood that Young should take up this paper, unless
't was taken up by Chambers and others, 'who had an
option to take up this or any other equivalent paper of
Young's.
. arch i6th....LivIGSTON, J. delivered the opinion
of the Court as follows
Whatever equity the Complainant may once have
bad against the payee or holder of the note for 1433 i
which was assigned to George Grundy, in consequence
of the non-performance of the agreement of the 15th of
May, 1795, this Court is of opinion that all such equity
was done away by the contract of the 6th September,
1798. This last contract was made for the express
purpose of making the Complainants a compensation
for the loss they had sustained, by the non-performance
of the other, and was evidently received as an equivalent or substitute therefor. Bythis latter contract then
they were placed, as it respected the holders of all their
notes, precisely in the same situation as if there had
been no want or failure of consideration of the agreement made in 1795. Whether the agreement of 1798
has been complied 'with it is not material to inquire, because, previous thereto, this note was held by Gruidy,
who cannot be affected by any claim which the Complainant may have against the other Defendants in consequence of any subsequent transactions between the
parties.
The Court is of opinion that the decree of the Circuit
Court be affirmed with costs.

1813.
Alarch

PALMER v. ALLEN-

16th.

*qbseit....ToDD,
Ii the district

ofConnecticut

J.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Errors of the state ot
Connecticut, in any action ofassault and batteryand false

