SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
.
X00NTZo

jurisdiction of a Court of equity, yet it is not valid in a
case like the present which is really a case at law as
between the present parties.
The Court is of opnion that the plea is a goo& bar,
and that the decree should be affirmed.

RIDDE v. MOSS.

1812.
March

6th.

Present.....ll1 the Judges.
The principal
obligor in a

bond is not a
competent
eites for the

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of

Columbia.

This was an action of debt on a joint bond given by

,surety,
inan John Welch as principal obligor and the Defendant
action upon
the bond; the . foss as his surety The suit abated as to Welch by the
principal be. return of the marshal, that he was no inhabitant of the
i
tgliable
to district. The Defendant, Moss, pleaded specially cer.
9
1,Csecal
the suret, for
cots incase tain facts in avoidante of the bond as t9 him alone, upthejydgment on which issue was joined, and upon the, trial the Deshould be
,mmst hun. fendant, AIoss, offered, as a witness, the said John Welch
the principal obligor who was permitted by the Court
below to testify for the Defendant, and upon his cross
examination cunfessed that he had made over to Moss
all his property as security to indemnify him against
the event of this suit.
The Plaintiff took a bill of exceptions, and the verdict and, jtIdgment being against him, brought his writ
of error to this Court.
E. I. LrE and JoxEs, for the Plaintiffin error
Welch was clearly an interested wgitness. By reliev-ing Moss from this suit, he would relieve his property
from the lien which Moss held upon it. If the Plaintiff recovered against Moss, the latter could immediately.
recoyer judgment against Welch for the whole debt, together with the costs of this suit. Laws of Tirg. Beu.
Code. 292.-5. T. R. 5789 Buckland v. Tankard.-Bul.
-YVP' 283-p. Bur 2727.-3. Atk. 42.-Day. 81.

FEBRUARY TERM ii2.,

207

Welch is also interested to tie' amount of his legal
fees for. attendance 9s a witness. It appears upon the
record that he was regularly summoned and ig by law
entitled to demand o4 Moss one dollar and a quarter
per diem. If the Plaintiff should be defeated he will
retain this to his own use, but if the Plaintiff should
recover judgment he will have to refunil it to Moss.
C. L.E, contra.
The Defence set up by Moss did not affect Welch's
liability, upon the bond. He was bound at all events.
H6 was not a party to. this suit. Neither the verdict
nor judgment could affect him. He would be obligbd to
pay either Riddle or Moss and it was immaterial to him
which of themshould recover against hun. If the Plaintiff shuld.be defeated by Moss, he would sue 'Welch
and recoVer judgment -with costs-so that it was immateiial to him whether he paid costs to one or the other.
He thereforp stood indifferent as to interest. In chancery one Defendant is a good witness for another, and
it would be as good a rule at law.
.C.ourts of law have, of late, inclined to refer all cases
of doubtful interest, to the credibility, rather than to
thecomlpetency of the witness. The interest should be
immediate and direct, in order to exclude the witness.
3. Esp..lRep. 60.
The statute of Virginia which gives to a surety, -a
renedy against his principal does not alter the case.
He had an equal remedy before.
In the case or Padwting-o. The United States, - Oraneh,
219, the point was made by a bill of exceptions to the
refqsal of the district court of Kentucky to admit a coobligor as a witness, but was not decided; the judgmerit
having been reserved upon other grounds.
Mfarch 1Oth....AU the Judzes"beingpresent.
14sAtWHI, Cih. J. delivered the opinion of the Court
to the following effect.
The Court is of. opigion"that Welch, the co-obligor.
was interested, and was therefore aii incompetent wit-

RIDDLE

V.
-moss.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
It was a consideration of some im'portauce that
he had given Moss a deed of tru&t of his effects to indemiify him against this suit; but-the principal circumstance
was, that Welch's liability would be increased, to the
extent of the costs of this suit, if the jiidgment should
be against' Moss.*

UDDLE

!less.

1o.
mIoss.

JTudgment reversed,

1812.
M1arch

SHEEHY v. MANDEVILLE.
6th.

Present..... ll the Judges.
A note pavable at 60 days,
cannot be
givens III evideuce to sup-

E RROR to the Circuit Court for the districE ot
Columbia sitting at Alexandria.
This cause hawng been sent back to the Circuit Court,

port. a count by the mandate of this Court, at February term

Iio,jcommanding that Court to renderjudgment for the Plaindoes not state tiff on his first count and to award a writ of enquiry of
when the note damages, upon executing that writ of enquiry the PlainThe variance tiff produced the.following note.
upon a note,
which count

is6fatal.
Upon exe1m-

ting

writ of

enquiry in
Virgina in an

,.tlexandru f th July, -80.
"cixtydays afler.date, I promise to pay to Mr. James

Sjheelhy, or order, six hundred and four dollars and
a promisoty 6 ninety one cents, for value received, negotiable in the
note, it is ne- " Bank of Alexandria.
ofns
......

cessary to produce, a note
corresponding
with that stated in the declatlation;
it is not but

R. B. JAMESON."
The note was thus described in the declaratiorf, "iAnd
nees " whereas the Ad Defendants under thu name, firm and
sary to prove "style aforesaid, did on the said 17th of July, 1-861,
the note"The Finiun
"make their certain note in writing called a promissory
cannot
tyi:dencegive

that
the variance

' The same point was also decided
in the case of the Governor of
was the effect Virginia v. Evans and others, at this term; which 'was the case of a lVnd

ofmistake o

nadiertence
of the attorr,', and that

with collateral condition, It was ajoint action; and all the Defendants were

taken, but pleaded separately.
tAnte, Vol. 6, p. 25S.

