SUPREME COURT U. S.
YOUNG

V.
GRUNDY.

his remedy upon that bond. The new contract was a
substitute for the old one, and was made after Grundy
became the holder of the note without notice of any defeet of consideration. By the new agreement it was
understood that Young should take up this paper, unless
't was taken up by Chambers and others, 'who had an
option to take up this or any other equivalent paper of
Young's.
. arch i6th....LivIGSTON, J. delivered the opinion
of the Court as follows
Whatever equity the Complainant may once have
bad against the payee or holder of the note for 1433 i
which was assigned to George Grundy, in consequence
of the non-performance of the agreement of the 15th of
May, 1795, this Court is of opinion that all such equity
was done away by the contract of the 6th September,
1798. This last contract was made for the express
purpose of making the Complainants a compensation
for the loss they had sustained, by the non-performance
of the other, and was evidently received as an equivalent or substitute therefor. Bythis latter contract then
they were placed, as it respected the holders of all their
notes, precisely in the same situation as if there had
been no want or failure of consideration of the agreement made in 1795. Whether the agreement of 1798
has been complied 'with it is not material to inquire, because, previous thereto, this note was held by Gruidy,
who cannot be affected by any claim which the Complainant may have against the other Defendants in consequence of any subsequent transactions between the
parties.
The Court is of opinion that the decree of the Circuit
Court be affirmed with costs.

1813.
Alarch

PALMER v. ALLEN-

16th.

*qbseit....ToDD,
Ii the district

ofConnecticut

J.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Errors of the state ot
Connecticut, in any action ofassault and batteryand false

FEBRIfARY TERM isis1.
imprisonment, brought by Allen against Palmer, who PAEMEx
v.
was a deputy marshal of thq United States for the district of Connecticut angl hat served a process of attach- Airier.
ment upon Alien, .and committed mm to prison for
want of bail, without such a nittimus as is usual upon the marshal
Upon si
commitment on like process issuing fromthe state Courts. attachrentfor
debt, without

mittimus,
Palmer pleaded a special justification under the Writ acommit
the

of attachment issued out of the district Court of the Defendant

tor

His plea prisonforwant
United States for the district of Connecticut. of
shew- of bai.
was, upon demurrer, adjudged bad, for want
ing a rnittimus, and that judgr .-t was affirmed in the
Supreme Court of Errors.*
The question was now submitted to this Court, who
were furnished with copies of the following opinions,
delivered in the Court below.
Opinion of 3udgi. Brainard, in which the majority of
the Court below concurred.
"eThe original action was trespass, for an assault and
battery, and false imprisonment, in which the Defendant in error was Plantiff, and to which the Defendant below, now Plaintiff in error, pleaded speciallythat he was a deputy to the marshal of the United States
for the district of Connecticut, and in that capacity had
in Ins hands to serve a writ of attachment issued under
the authority of the United States, returnable to the
district Court of the Ufiited States for the said district;
in virtue of which lie attached the body of the Plaintiff
below-read the writ in his hearing, and for want of
bail committed him to the keeper of the jail in New Havon, &c. with whom he left a true and attested copy
of.said writ and process which lie avers to be the same
imprisonment and pretended trespass complained of, &c.
to which there was a demurrer andjoinder in demurrer,
and adjudged by the Superior Court tobe insufficient.
On which this writ of error is brought-plea nothing
erroneous."
The following judges being present, Mitchell, Ch. J. Swift, Trumbull,
Edmond, Smith, Bnmiard, Baldwin and Ingersoll, judges-Swift and Baldwin dissrnted. and ingersoli gare no opinion, havuigbeen counsel in the causv

SUPREIME C,RT
PAIMER

ov.

S.
1q

"The first action wag debt orought on- a statute law
of the United States for an alleged breach therVof.'

ALLEi o.

"Whether that law be constitutional or not, as itW.mnnecessary. it would perhaps be indecorous to d-scuss,
and whether debt be the proper action to be brought
on it or not, is unimportant for my purpose The process was under a law, issued under the authority; in he
hands of a marshal of, and returnable to a Court ) all of the
United States. The service appears to be arrest of the
Defendants body, reading in his hearing, and for want
of bail, commitment,- . The authority of the jailer to
receive and keel) the Defendant, was-h-copy of the process without a mittimus."
"Is this a justification? Ifs this a dcfente P..
-The- first question is, in the state of Connecticut, in
an action of debt, for instance, in l.oilit of service GT an
attachment returhable to a state Court. is a migfimus
necessary to authorize a committment ? U"not, it settles
this case, and there is manifest error. But if it be, the
next question- is, whether a mittimus be necegsary in a
process issued under the laws and authority of the United
States, returnable to and ,cognizable by a Court 4 *the
United States, to be serv in this state oii.a citizen of
the same."
"This proposition I thiihk correct, that such is the constitution of the state of Connecticut, and from the infan'
cy of her laws andjurisprudence has been."
":rhat no man's person shall be imprisoned unless-by
judgment of Court, or direction and oraleF of a anagistrate."
9 In every instance of final process there is an order
of commitment, a mittimus, contained in the body of'the
instrument, in the execution itself."
c In all cases where the subject matter has been adjudged by a Court of competent jurisdiction, tie officer's
duty is pointed out and .the extent of the debtor's or
delinquent's liability is ascertained, the result is made,
the end is known."

FEBRUARY TERM i88s.
" On attachments, it will be agreed on all hands, that a PA.&xinM
v.
man shall not be committed to prison, if he procure
reasonable bail of the reasonableness or sufficiency of ALL N.
this .bail, who is to judge ? Is the officer in all instances ? I apprehend not."
- In case of an attachment, the direction to the officer
indeed is, for want of estate, to attach the body of A. B.
and him safely keep and have to appear before the Court.
B .t the mode of this safe keeping and having to appear
is pointed out and provided for by law."
"The most ancient statute I find on the subject, entitled ",An act for regulatingjails and jailers," says. that
no person or persons whatsoever shall be committed to
prison, although arrested or seized by attachment, execution, or any other writ, or for non-payment of rates,
debts or fines, or for any misdemeanoror capitol, or crninal offence, or. any other cause, without a mittimts,
granted and signed by civil authority, declaring the
cause and ground of his commitment, requiring the jailer
to receive and keep such person or persons in the prison
until discharged according to law."
in a subsequent statute passed in May, 1706, entitled
"An act concerning officers levying executions," it is
enacted, that when any officer shall have a writ of execution to levy, &c. and doth seize the body, &c. and
commit him to prison, a copy of the 'writor execution
signed by the officer and delivered to the jailer, shall
be sufficient warrant or order for him to receive such person, and lum hold in safe custody till delivered by law."
"cIn the revision of the statutes, in the year 1750, the
phraseology of the former statute was altered, and the
latter was incorporated with it, under the title of "c An
act concerning arrests and imprisonments for debt,
damages, fines, &c. This statute has remained the same
ever since, and its reading in relation to this subject isThat no person or persons for the non-payment of rates,
fines, debts, or for any crime or offence, shall be committed to prison, ithout a inittimus granted and sianed by civil authority, declaring the cause and ground of
his commitment, requiring the jailer or keeper of the
prison, to receive and keep such person or persons in the.
VOL. VI..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
?XLmR prison, until discharged according to law, unless where

T.
ALLN.

any proper officer, for want of estate, seize the body or
bodies of any person or persons by an execution or distress or warrant for fines and rates, and commit him
jr them to prison, in which case a copy of the execution or distress attested and signed by such officer, and
delivered to the jailer or keeper of the prison, shall be
a sufficient warrant or order for him to receive such,
person or persons, and him or them to hold in safe custody till delivered by law."
-From the broadness of the ancientstatute it is apparent that in relation to all process, civil or criminal9
mesne or final-no person could be committed to prison
without- a mittimus, an instrument stating the cause,
ordering the reception, and directing the detention signed by a magistrate, or as the expression is9 civil au'thority."
"In 1706, it occurred to the legislature that part of
this provision was unnecessary that in final process
there was a mittirnus in relation to that subject from the
highest authority .--.hence the legislative dispensation,
with mittimus in cases of executions."
"6When the legislature in 1750, incorporated the
latter statute, which had made a distinction between
final and mesne process, into the former, can it be supposed that they intended to narrow the grounds of the
ancient provisions and regulations "'
- At the revision in 1750, it also occurred to the legislature, that there were othdr cases than executions
where -a inmttimus, in the sense generally understood.
would not only be unnecessary, but Improper, hence
the exemption was extended to distress or warrants for
fines or rates,"
" The present statute says, that no person for the nonpayment of rates or fines. shall be committed to prison
without a mittinus; unless indeed a distress or warrant
for such rates and fines has been granted by proper authority, having competent jurisdiction."
orThe word debts in the statute still remains to be

FEBRUARY TERM Ii s.
satisfied with a. far and reasonable construction. The
original title of the act, was an act concerning arrests
and imprisonments for debt, damage, fines, &c. Suppose the reading to be that, in an action for debt, no person shall be imprisoned without a inittimus. This would
comprehend all actions of debt in a proper and teclni
cal sense, of course the present."
"But this I sulIpose is too narrow a construction.
The true meaning is commensurate with all actions by
attachment, which sound in or claim debt or damage,
and which by the process of a Court may be reduced
into debt or-damage. In all which cases, while in mesne process, before adjustment, there shall be a mittimus
to authorize a commitment, after which, when liquidated, the execution speaks the order of the Court."
",But the statute, since its existence in its Iresent
form, seems pretty generally to have had an uniform
practical construction, the best comment periap§ that
can now be made upon it. So far as I can learntit has
received in practice, in relation to mesne process, the
same construction that was given to the former statute
in relation to the same subject, and which the words of
that statute absolutely and necessarily require. Both
under the forme'r and present statute, in all cases of attachment, a qnittinus has been deemed necessary.to authorize a commitment"
"c But the second and perhaps more important question remains."
,c In a mesne process bv attachment for debt, issued
under the law and authorit" of the-United States, returnable to a Court of the United States, to be served
on a citizen of tlas state, within the same, to authorize
a commitment. is a initlimus necessarv 7"
"The United Slates have a right to prescribe what
mode of service for their own processes they may deem
proper, and if they have pointed out a mode, that mode
imust be pursued if they have not, it should seem fair
reasoning to conclude that'they had left that subject to
the existin.g regulations of the several states. The
UTnited States have a statute, entitled " An act for regu-

rA-i3mi

v.
.A

N.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
lating processes in the Courts of the United States," in
which, section 2d, volume 2d, laws of United Statesp
ALL N. page 1039 it is enacted, 6that the form of writs, execu- tions and other processes, except their style, and the
forms and modes of proceeding m suits at common laiv

PALMEn

I.

shall be the same as are now used in the said Courts
respectively, in pursuance of the act, entitled ,,An act
to regulate the processes ii the Courts of the United
States."
-What those forms and modes are the statute no where
specifies, other than by the above reference, and the
same statute expressly repeals the whole of the act referred to. '
"On recurrence however, to that statute, we find it
there enacted, "5That the forms of writs, &c. and modes
of process in the Circuit aud Disirict Courts, in suits
at common law, shall be the same in each state respectively, as are now used or allowed in the Supreme
Couts of the same."
"But it has been said, that mittimus is no part of the
process. If I am correct in my conclusion on the first
point,, it is, by the law of this state, a part, and essential
to the completion, of service in case of commitment."
"If part of the service, it is part of the process-process in one sense is the method taken by law to compel
a compliance with the original writ, by giving the party
notice to obey it, a warning to appear in Court at the
return of the original writ. On failure of obedience,
further process is said to be had by attachment, &c."
c,I understand that the word process, as used by the
legislature of the United States, in the statute refelTed
to, is to he received in its broadest and wost extensive
sense. It is to be taken for all proceedings, in any action fromv
the beginning to the end."
" Mode of process includes mode of service. Whatever is necessary to complete the service of a writ returnable to a state Court, is by that statute. made necessary to complete the service of a writ returnable to
a Dist vict or Circuit Court. A mittius
is as necessary
in the one case as in the other."

FEBRUARY TERM 18i3.
"tBut it may be said, that there is no provision in the PAMImR
laws of the United States for procuring a mittimus
v.
that of course there may be a failure of justice. When the ALL-E%
legilsiture of the United States referred to the laws of
the several states, they were bound to know them and
to make provisions correspondent with them, and I am
not prepared to say that they have not. Jam not preparcd
to say, that it would not be t-.e duty of thejudge and justi.
ce of this state, on application of the marshal, to grant
a nitHinu. Besides, they have in each district at least
one judge peculiarly their own. Sufficient is it that
they have. the power of making all necessary provmsion.
They do in many instances call into their service the
judges and justices of the State Courts, and make them
pro hac -ice their own: such as taking bonds of recognizance in cases of prosecutions for breaches of the laws
of the United States, and various other instances. But
in the words of a great man and eminent judge, -, If the
law does not work right, let the legislature mend it, it's
their business.-I am of opinion that there is no error."
Opinzon of Judge Baldwin, in.wvich Judge Swift concurred.
c, I differ in opinion, only on the necessity of a mittinnis, for a legal commitment by the marshal of the
United States, for the Connecticut district, on an attachment for debt."
,, I am of opinion, that a mittimus is not necessary
by the statute of Connecticut. to authorize a commitment on attachment, in any civil cause, and if it were,
it is doubted whether it would be obligatory on the marshals of the United States."
SBefore proceeding to give the reasons for my opinion on either of these points, I would remark, that it
is presumed it will not be contended that the marshals
are bound by a mode of proceeding which may have
been used by the -executive officers of the statci unless
the same was required, or has been sanctioned, by the
laws of the state."
",'If the practical construction .of the state officers,
can give a binding effect to the statute of the state on

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rjAtbn

v.
ALLENV.

them, which the letter does not reqmre; I apprehend
that a contrary construction, by the marshals, sanc.
tionedd by the subsequent act of Congress in 1799 requiring that the forms of proceedings in suits, should be
the same in future, as had then been adopted, and used
in pursuance of the former act, will be equally binding
on them.?'
66 I do not know, that there has ever been a judicial
construction of the statute in question. I admit, that
the practice among our state officers, (through abundant caution) has been to commit, by nittinus, in all
cases of arrests, except on executions but it will also
be admitted, that the practice was never followed by
the marshals df the United States."

" Ever since the establishment of the judiciary of the
United States, a period of more than twenty years,
they have uniformly committed, in cases of attachment,
by copy of their writ, we ought then, as the question
now comes up for judicial decision, to give the proper
effect to the provisions of the two statutes, independent
of such practical constructions."
c I will then examine, whether the statute of Connecticut requires a inittimus for commitment on attachments ?"
c .1Tis statute, owing to repeated alterations and
compilations, from materials enacted at different times,
is not explicit, or very intelligible, its history will proc
bably give sonic aid. in its construction."*
" As early as 1650, it was enacted that no man's person should. be arrested, or imprisoned for any debt or
fine, if satisfaction could be found from his estate."
"At that-time no arrest, or attachment of the person, was allowed for debt."t
' Stat. Conn. latest revision, pnnted in 1808. Index heads-mittimus refirence to arrests, No 5, 6,page 58-and in notes there.-Also exceution
17o.
i, stat.
p.83 See. 5.
'. See title, actions, civil, page &1; See. 1, and in notes there.

EBRtTARY TERM 1813.

559

cc The ordinary pirocess was by summons, and on PALMER
10.
default, of appearance, an attachment for the contempt,
AL7.E.
issued by order of the court."
",By subsequent provisions, and particularly at the
revision in 1672, an attachment was allowed as an ortgwial process in certain cases, and the form was then
given. In 1702, the Plaintiff was allowed a summops,
or an attachment at his option, in all civil actions."
"cIn 1693, a mittimus was first required, to authori e
a commitment. and at the revision in 1702, it was extended and made necessary in all cases civil, or crimilial. The words are, 1. iiat no person.shall be committed to prison, although hrrested or seized by attachment, execution, or any other -writ, or for non-payment of
rates, debts or fines, or for any misdemeanor, or-capital, or criminal offence, or any other cause, without a
mittimus." &c.
- Inconvenience- was soon experienced, and in 1706y
a commitment by copy, was authorized, in cwse of arrest on execution."
" At the revision in 1750, the statute took its present
shape, viz. ,, That no person shall be arrested and imprisoned, for any debt, damage, or ftne, where sufficient
megns of satisfaction can otherwise be found from his es
tate. Provided, that no person, for the non-payment of
rates, fines or debts, or for any crime or offence, shall
be committed without a inittimus, grantedand szgned lzI
civit Authority," &'e. ",unless the body lia'been taken by
execution, or distress, or warrant for fines or rates,. in
which case a copy of the execution or distress, attested,
and signed by the officer, and delivered to the jailer,
shall be a sufficient warrant or order." & ,.

- By omitting in the last statute, in the clause, requiring a mittimus, the expressions ",arrested by
attachment, or any other writ, or any other cause,"and by adding to the exception, "can arrest by distress
or warrant," for which a copy only is requested, it is
evident,'the legislature meant to limit the necessity of
a mittimus. By the letter of the act as it nov appears,
it is not required on an attachment for tresspass, tart,
case, or any other civil cause. unless it is on an at-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PALMER tachment for debt, and it can hardly be presumed, that

v.
ALLBEN.

the legislature would thus dispense with it in all other
cases, and retain in that, or that under an exprtssion
of doubtful import, they meant to include all manner of
attachments."
- All doubt, it appears to me will be removed, by giving that meaning to the word debt, as here used, which
it had when first introduced into the statute, before an
attach ment of the person was allowed on mesne process
in any case."
"It there evidently means ajudgment debt, (for there
could then be no arrest for non-payment of any other,)
in which sense it will include.as well damages recovered for tort, as for money due on contract."
"As no mention is made in the existing statute, of
mesne process by attachment in any case, an-, the word
debt, cannot apply to the variety of demands which may
be the subject of attachment, and as no reason can be
ass gned, why that alone should be selected, I conclude
the legislature, when they altered the statute, did not
mean to include any arrest, by attachment, on mespe
process."
" The terms also of the ancient statute were, that no
person shall be committed without a minttmus, although
arrested by attachment, or for non-payment of rates,
debts, or fines."
"i Those of the present statute are only, that no person for " non-payment of rates, debt, or fines," shall be
committed without a mittimus. unless by executions, &c.
The first make.iadistinction between acommitment on attachment, and a commitment fornon-payment of adebt. c.
a distinction which is obvious. At the time of the attachment, no debt is ascertained-the officer has no
power to collect any He is merely to secure the appearance of the person attached, before the proper
Court to try the question of indebtedness. Th.r officer
has no power to commit, if the person attached 'will procure bail for his appearance, if not, lie is to be i .-prisoned, not- for the -non payment of the debt, but to secure his appearance at Court.--,Whether he is in debt,
is a question sub litq, to shy he wiftolds the debt, is to

FEBRUARY TERM 1sis.
prejudge the cause. I am therefore of opinion, that the PALM R
non-payment of the debt mentioned in the statute, has no
vreference to mesne process, and that there is no occa- ALLEN.
sion by our statute for a mittimus, to commit in any
case except for crimes. Such I contend is the true construction of the statute in question, and such I think. is
the construction all would give it, if a different practice
ofour officers had not created a doubt."
c-2. If it were evident that our statute required a mittimus in such case, doubts are entertained whether itis
applicable to the process of the United States."
"It seems to be agreed, that the mittimus, required
by our statute, must be "cgranted and signed by civil an:
thority" of this state. This they are ntither authorized
nor compelled by any law either of the United States, or
of this state to do in such case."
"in cases, where it is deemed necessary for the civil
authority of this state, to aid in executing the laws of
the union, power is specially given them to do so ;--as
in all cases of a criminal nature, and in taking depositions, &c.-but there is no authority given to them,
or duty imposed on them as magistrates, to aid the
execution of their civil process,-and to expect it of
them, or leave it optional with them to give or withhold
the aid, would be derogatoryto thegeneral government."
"cThey are an independent sovereignty.-Their officers must have all the power incident and necessary to
the.execution' of the duties of their offices."
" By a statute of this state, passed in 1791, stat. p. 368.
"permission is given to marshals and other officers
of the United States, to use our jails, to confine persons
under the authority of the United States, with the same
authority in the keeping of prisoners, under the ailthority of the United States, as the keepers of said jails, tinder the authority of this state have." The eff-ct is, and
was intended to be, to take away all control or responsibility, from keepers of the jails, under the authority
of this state, as to prisoners confined by the authority
of the United States. The prison keeper of the sheriff,
as §uch, has na power to recive a prisoner under the
VOL. VIL
72

StJPILEME COURT. -U S.
PAimEu

V.
ALLEN.

authority of the United States. He must have a special power from the marshal, to enable him to act as
keeper under their authority Such part of the prison,
as may at any time be used for such purpose, by the officers of the United States, is as distinct from the other,
ad. from the control of the state officers, as though it
were a distinct building.-Neither the sheriff nor the
courity are responsible for -tile safekeeping of the prisoners. The keepers may be, and some times are, different, or if the same person is the keeper of both, he
acts in different capacities, and under different authority"
" Hence I infer, that the keeper of the prison of the
United States, has lib power to commit on civil process
by the authority of the state, nor, I contend, have the
civil authority of the state any power to require it#
and yet'if a inittims is necessary by our statute, it
must be ,-granted and signed by civil authority," of
the state, directed to the keeper of the jail of the United States, commanding lim by authority of the state
of Connecticut, to receive and hold the prisoner, under
tile authority of the United States, I may add also, that
if the mittimus is to be considered as a writ or processk
included in tile act of Congress, its form must be that of
commitment, but the sty1Q, that of the United States,
"hat is-it must issue by the authority of the United
States, bi'ar test of the proper judge, and be scaled and
signed by the clerk, but in such case, it would not have
the reqmraments of our statute, by being granted and
sign-d.'by civil authority of the state; and the United
States have no amlogous civil authority to execute the
'

nower."

"Does it then follow as has been said, that fle proccss by attachmefit must be abandoned ? Ithink not:The party, clanim;n a debt, has a right to the advantages
of such a -writ, and when the officer shall have done n
duty, in makig the arrest, if no provision is made by
law. directing the mode of commitment, he must take
a reasonable course, such as would be sanctioned by
the principles of the common law, and such as was . robably used before we had any law requiring a mittimus
in any case.?'
56Having arrested the pris, .. r by legal process. the

FEBRUARY TERM i813.

.6.

officer became responsible for his appearance"af Court, rti-mER
T.
and, on failure to procure bail, he was bound to hold
AL.t.n.
him- in custody His place of custody is the prison,"
"The same warrant which commanded the arrest,
required the officer to keep his prisoner safely, so that
he might be had before the Court. The officer was
therefore authorized to commit. Still it is reasonable
and proper, that the keeper of the prison, should -beable to show the cause and ground of the comimitment,
and of his holding the prisoner in custody.-This he
will be enabled to do more fully, and more satisfactorily,
by tie copy of the process, and the doings of the officer
thereon, than by the mittimus usually granted. This
is the course required by our statute, on commitment
by execution, disti ss, or warrant, and is that which
I apprehend the common law in similar cases would require."
- It therefore, appears to me, that on either ground,
and most clearly, on the first, there was no occasion of a
2iittivis, to complete tie justification of the officer, and
that his plea was sufficient, and ought so to have been
adjudged."
, arch i6th.... J oiNso-, J. delivered the opinion of
this Court, as follows.
This suit comes up from the state Court of Connectcut, to reverse a judgment of that Court. The Defendant here brought an action belowy, against Palmer, and
recovered damages for a supposed assault and false imprisonment. The facts of the case were these Palmer
is.a deputy marshal, and in that capacity, arrested the
body of.Allen, on a writ sued out by the United States,
to recover a penalty which Allen was charged with liaving incurred by a violation of a Jawv of the United
States. In this suit bail was demanded, and upon Allen's failing to give it, he was committed to prison.
The illegal act with which Palmer was charged, was
committing the Defendant to jail without a mittimus
from a -magistrate. It appears that it is the practice of
ihat state, and in this case the majority of the judges
decided it to be the law, that such a mittimus must be
obtained, before a Dcfendfntp a civil suit can be com-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
initted to prison. The practice however in the Courts
of the United States in that district, has been the reverse.
To this action the Defendant pleaded a justification
and on demurreri the state Court adjudged the plea insufficient, for want of setung forth such a mittimus, no
queshon was made of Eie correctness of taking the body of Allen, or detaining him, until he should giv bail.
It was supposed that the law of the United States which
enacts, that the form of writs, executions, and other
processes " and the forms and modes ofproceedingin suits
of common law, shall be the same as are now used" in the
state Courts respectively, gives efficacy to the laws of
Connecticut on this subject, and imposes upon the officers of the United States an obligation to conform their
conduct to the provisions of those laws.
But this Court are unanimously of a different opinion. The plea made out a sufficient justification and
oue-t to have been sustained as such. A writ, known
to the jurisprudence of'that state, issues to the marshal
in the alternative, commanding him to attach the goods
of the Defendant to a certain amount, and for want of
such goods, to take 1is body under this writ, not only
in conformity to the literal meaning, but accordina to the
established usage and received opinions of that state. the
officer was sanctioned in taking the person of the Defendant into actual custody-and the 56th section of
the colh-ction law of March 2d, 1799, expressly au;
thorizes a demand of bail. Detention therefore, until
bail was given, was strictly authorized by law, and the
defence to te assault and imprisonment was complete.
Committing the Defendant to the state prison, was but
one rood- and the least exceptionable mode of detaininq his person, and if it was not so, it would only be the
ground of a special action on the case against the officer for mat-treatment, or oppression.
Bit it is equally clear to this Court, thai the law above
alluded to commonly called the process act, does not
adopt the law of Conniocticut. which requires the mittiiMs in civilcases. This is a peculiar municipal regulation, not having any immediate relation to the iprogress of a suit, but imposing a restraint upon their

FEBRUARY TERM i813.
atate officers in the execution of the process of their
Courts, ana is altogether inoperative upon the officers
of.the United States, in the execution of the mandates
whwli issue to them. The judgment below must be
reversed, and judgment entered for the Defendant.

PA.MEn

YOUNG AND AL v. BLACK.

1813.

v.
AIt.N.

-

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of if
Columbia.

arch

12tt.

three joint

owners

of a

careo employ
the master of

The suit was brought by Young, Deblois, and Law- the ship to sell
it forilfterward3
them, c
rason, against Black to recover the proceeds
• of the.he
sales of a cargo shipped by the Plaintiffs to the West become iteIndies, on board the brig Active, of which the Defen- rested in the
dant was master, and to whom the cargo was con- sfre of one of
signed.
ers, joint
he cannot,
ownsigned.the
in an action
brought a-

The. Plaintiffs, Young and Deblois, had each an iote- gainst him by
three'iomt
rest of three eighths in the cargo, and tile Plaintiff, Law- the
ownlers
to rerason, the other two eighths. Upon the general issue cover the a.
a verdict and judgment were rendered for the Defen.: mountofsade,
affhisshare
set
ofthatanionat.

daut.

Upon tile issue

At the trial the Plaintiffs took fbur bills of exception.

sit on
theasslmp:
D,,fen.
daiu rosy give
to the admission in evidence of a record 'ievidence the

The ,stwas
of a judgment betwveen the same parties togetler with'fi er of a
heween
parol evidence that it was for the same cause of acttail. ment
the same p'Artics on the

The. 2(d and Sd bills of exceptions were to the admis- saqme cause o
sion of parol proof that the Defendant had an literest action.
It 1s a matter

in Lawrason's two eighths of the cai-go, alter the Plait- of diseretiu
ith a Court
tiffs had shown their written instructions to the Def.,
"', n- whetheritwill
dant with his promise to obry them, his bill of ladinof eompelaparty
to
in
m
de.
the cargo, and his account of sales of i.
iitrrei
dence. toA evide-

The th bill of exceptiozs states the whole evidence murrer to evi.
offered as well by tile llaifiis as by the Dcfendant, dence ought
and that the Plantiffs offered to demur to the whole not
ed toellowwhere the

