SUPREME COURT.- U S.
DUNLOP -o. MUNROE.

ISM.
farch

9ili.

8the Judges.
Prsent.....t
When ths
takens
mae isthe
neupon
glect of the

st-master
nsoompis
otompieitent

of
the district
ERROR to the Circuit Court for
hri
i annatoaction wherein
goi
Columbia, sitting at Washington,
James and John Dunlop were Plaintiffs, and Thomas
Munroe, the deputy post-master at Washgton, was
Defendant.

fAgive in ett-

ne.
&&eofthe
A1ct
esta-t.Ills

The declaration after having, been several times

amended, contaned ine counts.

When iti
intended to
ditirge FLpost- :1.
ap-ster for the late
oanswer

The first count was as follows-Thomas Munroe,
of Washington county, genitleman, was attached to
unto. James Dunlop and John Dunlop in a plea

tie'pleadings of trespass on the case, &c. whereupon the said James
faust be made ana John, by Francis S. Key, their attorney complain,
up according
to the case ;
end I iabi v
then will on11

that whereas, by the'laws of the United States of Ameiica, relative to.the post-office establishment of the Umnresult-fromn hsled 'States, and of the Vost-roads within the United

that -there should be established,
neglectlyin Statet, it was enacted,
own
o.
nt prole
'su-eriiendino" at the seat of the government of the United States, a

the discharge gentral post-office, undler the direction of a post-master
irkillsh ues general, ant that post-offices should be establishdd, and
lnibder to that post-masters should be appointed by the said postr,4
a aPostlabhe nigWter general, at all such plAces as should appear to
waster
expedient, on the post-roads which then, were, or
.he
n
eg,
t tnspi,p.,. might thereafter be established, and the carriage of the,
mail on all such post-roads provided for; and that every
that tielo,"
yJry sustain

.v bthe

was
Plaintiff
the enilm¢

post-mafter, so appointed by the said post-master general,
should keep .. an office, in which one or more persons
ohouhl atteid for the purpose of performifig the duties

ncnce of tie
Inlegigeie. thereof, and a piost-road was directed to be established
Parol r~ mmeiiec

cannot be-ti- fioul1 Passamaquaddy, in the district of Maine, to St.
venthat onty Varfs, in Georgia, wthin the said United States, and
fet 0f wrI"'- thexity of PIltadelphia, in the State of Pennsvlvania,
r m tepost- anii-he city of Washington, in the district of Columbia,

master g e- andtihe town of Petersburg, in the state df Virginia,
,d
. suped-s-d
"gnother set of were -places Ihrough which the said post-road was di.
rected by.law to pass. And. whereas in pursuance of
written inthe said laws, a general post-office was established at
sttlftions.
the seat of government of the United States, under the

FEBRUARY TERM i8V.
direction of a post-master general, duly appointed and' nttvi.oP.
Iv.
qualified,,and a postroad establilied within the LT. States
from Passamaquaddy, jinthe-district'of Maine aforesai4, MuNRoE,
to St. Mary's, in Georgia aforesaid, .and the said city,
of Philadelphia, and the saidcity of,Washington, and the
said town of Petersburgh, were places through which
the said road did pass, and post-offices .were. duly established at the said places, so as aforesaid on the said postyoad, by the said post-nlaster general, and post-masters
by him duly appointed and qualified to attend to the duties of the said post-offices, and the carriage of.-the mail
of the U. Stateson the said post-road provided.f6r by the
said: post-*iaster general agreeably, to law and the '
said Thomas Munroe was, by the said post-master general, duly appointed and quAlified,the post-master atVie said office, so as aoresaid estatlishetl, at the said
city of Washington-on the said post-road, and between
the cify of Philadelphia and the town of Petersburgh
-aforesaid, also on the said post-road, and as such wasbound to attend to andperform all the duties thereof,
and to receive, make up, and distribpte and firmvard thp
mails of the'said United States,, and'all the letters and
packets contained therein which should arrive or come
to his said post.office, so by him kept as aforesaid at the
said city of Washington,.to all such places on the said
post road to which the same were' directed and addressed, and the said Thomas so being, as aforesaid, postihaster .at the said post-office, so as aforesaid lawfully
established at the said city of Washington, on the p.pstroad so as aforesaid- also lawfully established, and postoffices being, also, in like manner, lawfully established
it the said city'- of Philadelphia, and'the said town of
Petersburgh,"on the said post road, and post-masters
duly appointed- and' qualified,, aild attendihg to the ditties of the said post-offices, on. the thirtieth day of July,
in the year eighteen hundred and six, the sazd Janes and
*ohn being possessed of a large sum ofinanev, to wit.
the sum of two thousand dollars current money of the'
"'Unitqd States of their own proper money, and being so
possessed thereof, on.the same day and year, dI 'enclosevthe same vt bank notes by' means of their ageifts in
that particular, (a ;certain, Walker 'and- Kennedy) wna
letter sealedi and directel to the said James and Jolin
at Petersburgh, in Virginia aforesaid' on the post-road
aforesaid, and the s6id-sum of mQney., sb sealed and eb-

SUPREME COUR'PU. S.
b-Mor closed in saw ltter so directed, did place in the post.W.
office in the said city of Philadelphia, so as aforesaid
ops established on the said post-road, to be forwarded on
the said. post road, Tn the mail of the Unitea States to
the said town of Petersbugh on the post-road aforesaid,
andthe qatd. fett , directed as foreasid, and the money
inbank notes as aforesaid, to tho sud-amount, enclosed
in the same, were. accordingly, by the said post-master
at Philadlphia, and from the office there established as
aforesaid on the said post road, sent on and forwarded
in the mail of the U. States, on the day and yearaforesaid;
and did afterwards, to wit. on the first day of August,
i' the year aforesaid, .arrive at the post-office of the
said -Miomas, postmaster, as aforesald, in the said city
of Washiiton, on the said post-road, in the mail of the
United Stattes, on the route to the post-office at Petersburgh aforesaid, 09_ the post-road aforesaid, and was,
on. the day and yeai last mentioned, at the county of
"Washington aforesaid, recerodd by.the sazd Thomas to be
by him sent on and forwarded in the mail of the United
States, on the said post-road, to the said James and John,
at Petersburgh, to whom the same was directed and addressed,. yet the said Thomas, regardless of his said duty as postmaster, and wholly neglecting the same, did
vot send on the said letter, and the sum of money contained and enclos.d in the same, to the said town of Petersb ugh, on.the said post'-road, in the mail of the United States, to the said Jahines and John to whom tile
same was dirpcted, as it -was his duty to do, but the
'samne letter and the said sum of money therein contained
as aforesaid, were fi'audulently and improperly secretedA
withheld, and taken, in the sald post-office, at the city o,
Washington- aforesaid, by the said Thomas, or some
other person, employed by hm. in his said office, so that
the said James and John were prevented from receiving
the same, and the sane letter, and sum of voney, have
been wholly lost to the said Plaintiffs.

u.m

9. The 2d count was like the first in every particularexcept that it states that the Plaintiffs placed the letter,
encloing the money in the post-office at Philadelphia,
t6 be forwarded 'iithautdelaying the same a single lpostM
and that it was received by the Defendant at his office
In Washington on'the 1st of August, 1806, to be by him
senit on and forwarded, without dela jing the same a '.n-

FEBRUARY TERM 481..
gle post, in the mail of the Ubited States* &c#"99yet the BDZPot
1v.
cc said Thomas, regardless. ofhis-gud duty-as.post-hus",ter, and wholly ngledting the same, .did noton the Mu1NRoz.
irst day of lugusr in the year aforesaid, send la the.
"csaid letter and the sum of money contained and.inC1f ed in the same,, to the town of Pktersburgh on the sfild
",post-road, in the mail of the LTnrted States, 'whudi left
,the city of Washingtonon the saidfirst day of AhtgW, in
" the year aforesaid,for Petersburgh aforesaid, as itwas
,.his"duty and in his power to.have done, but the same
fc letter, and the said sum of 'money thervi contained as
"aforesaid, -were by the negligence, carelessness, and'miscecnduct of the said Thomas, in hissaid office aforesaid,
" utterly, afterwards to them, the said James and "Johv.,
,"lost, by ,reason whereof the said James and John, the
;- sum of money so as aforesaid, contained and enclosed
i n the said letter 'directed and. addressed as aforesaid,
" and the use and possession of the same, have -entirely
"lost, to the great damage," &c.
3. The 3d 'count was like the first in every respect,
except that instead of averring that the Plainiffs were
possessed of a large sum of money, it avers that they
were possessed of "certain property of great value, to
",wit: of certain bank notes for the payment of'rnoney to",the amount of the value of two thousand dollars, curcrent money of the United States;as their own property,
,
c.and enclosed the same bank notes," &c. using the.
words "bank notes," m lieu of the words ",sum of money"
in the residue of the count. It contains also an averment of a demand and refasal of the Defendant 'to 4eliver the letter and bank notes, 'whereby the same have
been totally lost to the Plaintiffs, whereof the Defendant
had notice.
4. The 4th count was like the first, except that it
uses the terms ,,bank notes," instead of" sum of money
iin

bank notes ;" and instead of averring, that. the let-

ter and sum of money were -fraudulently andimproper" ly secreted, withheld and taken, in the said post-ofce,"
it avers that " the same letter and bank notes were, by
-r the negligence, carelessness, and 'misconductofthe said
" Thomas in his said office, lost;' &c.-and avers a demand and refusal to deliver them, Nihereby .they have
been totally lost to the Plantiffs, whereof the Defendant
had notice, &c.

016

i

UPREi.COURT V, S.

ioP
. The 5th countvarled frIn the othera considerably
v
in the'recital° rospecti'gthe estiblishment of post-roads
omUNRoE. and post-offices , but the principal difference consisted
- -.an averinent, that the post-masters, appointed by the
post-master general, were to, perform then duties accordlg to la , and to the 'vistrwctionsof the post-mast
,' ter general elatf-ce'to their duty." That the post-office
at Washington was a. distributingoffice,, and that it was
the duty of the Defendant, according to the instructions
of the post-master general then in force, to open the
mail addressed ,Southern," and.to distribute and re-mail
the letters and packets into proper mails before the departure of the mail, and on no account to delay.them a
szngle post, by which it was in his power to send tiem
in the regular course of the mail. It then avers, that
the letter and post-notes were put into the post-office at
.Philadelphma on the 30thof Julyy and were from thence
fok'warded in the mail-on the 31st, andLarived atWashington on the 1st of August, and wera in the usual manner delivered-and placed in the post-office at Washihigton, kept by the Defendant, to be, by him, re-mailed,
and sent on and forwarded 1j te mail of the U. S. to
Petersburgh, to the Plaintiffs, And'were delivered and
placed in the usual- and regular course of the mail at and,
in the post-office at Washington aforesaid, czn time, to be
"re-mailed and sent ", according to'the instruction and
- directin aforesaid of the post-master general afore
'said, irr he same day of the arrival aforesaid, and by
"cthe same mail wiuch thereafter, and on the same. day,
",departed from the post-ofAice aforesaid, in the city of
,, Washingt
aforesaid, with letters for the town of
"Petrsburg- aforesaid, by virtue of whih premises it
,, wan the dut4j of the Defendant on the said Ist day of
",August, in the yeari806, at," &c. ", to have distribut,. ed, i'e-mailedy and senf on, or caused to have been dis41 tribated," &c. "-the said letter, containing the said
"'hank notes, to the town of Petersburg aforesaid, in
-the, mailof the U. S. aforesaid, on the same Ist day of
,(August, in, the year aforesaid, which it was in the
"c power of the Defendant to have done in the usual and.
"l'egular course of the business of his said office, never,, theless, t1fi sail. Defendant, on the 1st day of August,
cin the yea- aforesaid, at the county aforesaid, regard"6less of his duty as post-master as, aforesaid, did not
".sen~d on orfqrward, or cause to be sent onor fort

FEBRUARY .TE)M 1Sfi2.
C warded, oU the saul frst day. of .qngust, in the. year nDuLoz

v.
"aforesaid, the said letter containing the bank notes
"aforesaid, to' the 'town of Petersburgh aforesaid, in ,uxvwF.
;g",the mail of the U.'S. aforesaid, which left the sa4_" city of Washington on the said first day of August,
"and which ought to have received and.carried he said
"letter, and bank notes enclosed therein, to the post" office in the said town of Petersburg, but by reasonof
" his negligence-anud misconduct aforesaid, i his said of
"cfiee on the sauzfirst day of dUst, the said letter, and

" the said bank notes enclosed theretn as aforesaid, have
-been afterwards utterly, and'ever since, lost to tlc
" Plaintiffs."
6. The 6th count was like the 5th, excepting that it

averred that the letter with the bank notes enclosed-va
received.at the post-office in Washington, on the 1st of

August, F6 by Henuny Whetcroft, then and there agent and

" clerk of the Defendant, duly authorised to perform
the duties of the said office for the.Defendant, to be
",
"t re-mailed and sent on," &c. " By virtue of which
,,premises, it -was the duty of the said Defendant, post"master as aforesaid, by himself, his said agent, or
"csome other person, on the "st day of August afore" said, to have distributed, remailed, and sent on the
",
said letter," &c."in the mail of the U.'S. on the same
",ist day of August, which it was in the power of the
" Defendant, by himself er his said agent and clerk, to
",have done," &c. c.cNe-vertheless, the said Defendant,
"ton ihe said ist day of August," "regardless of' his
,sid duty as post-master as aforesaid, did iot by hzim-

cc self, or his saud servant and clerk, or any other person,
" send on and forward, on the said 1st day of August.
",the said letter," &c. i But by reason of the negligence
business of" and misconduct, qforesaid, in transactingthe
'
"'the said office on the saidist day of Stugust," &c. ",the

"said letter," &c. have been afterwards utterly abd ever
" since, lost to them, the said Plaintiffs," &c.

7 The 7th count was like the 6th, excepting that 'it
averred that the letter, &c. were received at the post-office in Washington, by William Hewitt, another agent,
servant or clerk of the Defendant.
S. The 8th count oharged. that the letter. -&c. was

949
SiJPREDi4E COURT U. S,
ONrn0p gluys 'by the carriev of' the mail, placed in the office
of
V.
the Defendant at* Waghington, on the Ist of Augubt
i80r, 11 time to be re-mailed and sent on by the nail of
.. z th ,ame day, and that it was.Ius duty, by himself
or by
-igients, or some of them, to have re mailed and sent
ton accordingly by tht nail, which he did not do, or
cause to be done, but by. reason of the negligence and
Wi9conduct aforesaid, inhis said office, on the said first
day of August, the letter, &c. have been afterwards ut
terly and ever since lost to the Plaintiff.

MUN OE.

9. Mhe-9th count was like the 8tfi excepting that it
averred that the mail which left Washington for Petersburg on the Ist of August, (and which ought to have
carried the Plaintifi's letter, arrived safely at Petersburg with all its letters. &c. 4b ut the said Defendant
i did undly, improperly,. aun4 negligently delay, dtarn,
"and keep theletter aforesaid, containing,P &c. ,in his
",said post-office until andw-fter the departure of the mail
",aforesazd, which ought; as aforesaid, by the laws and
"post-master general's instructiolis aforesaid, to have
"1carried and contaned the same on the said first day
" of August , and the letter and bank notes aforosaid,
"c so as, aforesaid unduly detained, the
said -Defendant
"did delay, and keep-in'his said office for a long space
of. time, to ,wit until the departure of the mail, which
"thereafter, to wit, on the Sd -day of August next for,
clowing, left -his said office for the town of Petersburgh
" aforesaid, but which never did arrive at the post:ofIcfice in the -said town of Petersburgh, but was, toge-

46thlar with. the letters and packages contained thereinp
4cand with the letter and bank notes aforesaid, of the

"said Plaintiffi, thus improperly delayed and unduly
"forwmirded, wholly and entirely lost oh its said ioute
"fto the town of Petersburgh aforesaid, and before its
c arrival at tho said post-office in thfe said town of Pez
4 tersburgh , by reason of which said undue, improper
"cand unlawful delay and. detention, negligence and mis0conduct of the said Thomas Munroe in his said postU.office, the letter and bank notes contained
therein as
"4aforesaid, have been then, aud ever since, utterly lost
, to the Plaintiffs."
To these nine counts# there were eighteen pleas in

FEBRUARY- TERM- 18

The. Ist plea ,wag the: general issue 'of not-guilty,
I.,
pleaded to, all the counts.
2,. The 2d pleg was also "pleaded to all the counn,was
and was, ",thatthe said lettercontaining," &c. 'e
,i.not brought to and deliverdl, norm any manner given
cin charge at the said post-oflice at Washington, in the
" mail of the United States, vhich, on the 31st of July,
"'1806, left the post-office at Philadelphia, and which,
,,on the 1st ofAugust next ensuing,, arrived at the post"coffice in Washington, in manner and form," &c. .and
of this he puts- himself on the country, and the Plaintiffs.likewise.
3. The 3d plea was to the Ist, 2d, 3d, and 4th counts,
athd dented~that the letter, &c. was -receivedby the Defendant, in manner and form, &c. Upon this.plea issue
was joined.

14 The 4th plea was to the Ist and 3d counts, and de.
reed that the letter, &c. was fraudulently secreted,4ithheld and taken, by the Deferidant, in manner and form,"
&c. Upon this plea also the Plaintiffs joined issue.
5. Tie 5th plea was also to the 1st and 3d counts,
and averred, that as to the Defendants having personally received the said letter, &c. and as to his having
f'audulently secreted, twithheld, and taken .the sane, &c.
he was not guilty, and of this he put himself upon the
country, and the Plaintitfs likewise. And as to the
residue of the allegations, charges, and .complaints, of
fraud and-misconduct, in the two last mentioried counts
of the said declaration above, supposed to have been
committed in the said post-office at Washington by some
.other person employed by the' Defendant in the said of*fice, lie says that the Plaintiffs, their'action aforesaid,
'to have, &c. ought- not, because he says, that at the
time when, &c. and always before and ever since, the
Defendant, .inpursuance of regulations and instructions
duly made and issued by the post-master general, took
due precaution and exercised all reasonable care, diligence
and circumspection, to cause all mails, letters and packets brought to the said office, to be duly sent, on and
forwardgd according to the destination of the same,
and to prevent all frauds and embezzlements in the said
33
VOL. VII.

DuNLOP

T.

95O

SUPREME COURT U. S.

office,- 'by selecting, appointing, and employng as clerks
and assistantsin the said office, and to attend un the said
MUNROE. office at the regular hours directed by the post-master
general, for the purpose of performing the duties of the same,
non" but persons of competenit skill and knowledge, offair
character, of known good 'rente for fidelitj and -honesty,
and who, up:n being so appointed and employed, and
previous to entering upon the duties assigned them as
aforesaid, or the execution of their trusts aforesaid,
had, in purstance of the act of Congress in such.case
made and provided, nd in obedienc to the express instructions-of the post-master general, respectively taken
and subscribed, before a magistrate, in, due manner
and form, the oath prescribed by the said act of Congress, and also the oath, in due manner and form, as
directed by the post-master general aforesaid.-; that is
to say, an oath to support the constitution of the United
States, and had respectively transmitted to, and caused
to be duly filed ili the general post-office certificates, in
due form, of the said oatLs so taken and subscribed as
afores.aid. .qnd the said Defendant in fact says, that at
the time when, &c. and for a long time before and after, he had "with due precaution md circumspection, and
with, all reasonable ca? e and diligence, and in pursuance
of regulations and instructions duly made and issued
by the post-waster general of the U. S. selected and duly
appointed and employed, two persons of competent skill
and knowledge, o fair character and of known good 2e
pute for fidelity a'id honesty , that is to 'say, one Henry
Whetcroft and one William Hewitt, as clerks and assistants
it the said post-fice, and to attend regularly, &c. for
the purpose of performing the duties of 'the said office,
and to whom, ajid to no other person or persons, were,
then and there entrusted, by the said Defendant, the
duties of receiving and opening the mails brought to
the said office for distribution or deliveiT, ana of receiving, distrilniting, re-mailing, and sending on, according to the proper destination of the same, all mails,
letters, &c. there being then and there no other person
or persons employed in the said office, to whom the Defendant had entrusted .any agency in the dhties of the
said office, or who were suffered by the Defendant to
inspect or handle any letters, newspapers, or other articles constituting a part of any mail brought, &c. they,
the said H. W and It- H. upon being appQlnted and
DuNLoP

v.

FEBRUARY TERM isi.2.
employed as aforesaid, and previous to entering upon DUNLOP
IV.
the duties, &c. having, in p'ursuance of the said of act
of'Congress, and in obedience to the instructions and muznRoE.
directions of the post.mastex general aforesaid, respecfively.and duly taken andsubscribed the oaths aforesaid,
and duly transmitted to and caused to be filed in the general post-office, certificates, in due form, of the said
oaths respectively so taken and subscribed as aforesaid,
and the said Defendantsays,. that if the said letter, &c.
was m fact delivered and received, or in any manner
given -Wicharge at the said post-office., or was in fact
fiaudulently secreted, withheld, and taken by any person employed and entrusted by the Defendant to attend
in the said office, for the purpose of performing the duties of the same, then such fraudulent embezzlement was
or conizzvalce Whatsoever of thf
without any participation,
,Defendant, and without anty fraud, collusion, or oilter
misdemeanor in office whatsoever, on the part of the Defendant, or by him dine or permitted, but altogether without his consent or knowledge, aul against his will, and

this he is ready to verify, =c.

To the latter part of this plea, there was a special
demurrer and joinder. Because, 1. The plea is argumentative in this, that it states that the Defendant has
appointed competent and honest men to do the duties of
the said .office, and therefore infers that lie himself is
not liable for their negligence., and further, in this, that
he states what acts lie did inrelation to his office, and'
reasons from them in his exculpation. 2. Because the
plea does not. confess and avoid, nor deny the allegations of the said counts or of any of them. a. Because
it does not state the nature and circumstances of error
or mistake supposed to be made by his said clerks and
assistants, so as to show that it did not proceed from a
want of reasonable care and diligence.

*. Because the

plea amounts to the general issue. 5. Because it does
not set forth any matter of law proper for the decision
of the Court, but states facts proper to be given in evidence upon the general issue joined between the parties.
6. Because the plea tenfds to draw from the consideration o the jury to that of the Court, matters of evidence proper to be shewn only to the jury on the general
issue, and is immaterial, insufficient and informal.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
xurt:ov
6,The 6th plea was to the said Ith and 9th cunts, and
10.
denied that the letter was lost by the negligence, carelessMUNROE. ness, or misconduct of the DVendant in his office-upon
----,--- which the Plaintiffs joined issue.
7 The 7th plea was to the ist and 3d counts, and
stated that the bank notes mentioned in those tivo counts
were notes of the bank of Virginia, Gwhich was a bank
6'duly established under a charter from the government
"of the state of Virginia, and if .thesame were in fact
"fraudulently taken, withheld and secreted by the De,fendant, or any person employed and entrusted in the
"said post-office at Washington, then, according to the
"form of the several statutes in force within the county
"of Washington aforesaid, every pNrsun so acting and
" doing,, became guilty of a felonious embezzlement of
61 the same letter and bank notes, and liable to suffer
s,the pains and penalties of felony, and ought to have
"been prosecuted for such crime accordingly , yet the
6,Defendant in fact saith, that no criminal prosecution
" whatsoever has been commenced, nor any conviction
" had against any person or persons whatsoever, in tire
,said two counts of the said .dcclaration, supposed to
"be guilty as aforesaid, and this he is ready to verify,"
&c,,
To this plea there was a general demurrer and joinder
8. The 8th plea wag to the 6th count, and denied that
the lette', &c. were received by Henry Whetcroft at t~e
post-office in Washington, in manner and form, &c.
upon which issue was joined.
9. The 9th plea was to the 7th count, and denied that
the letter was received by 'William Hewitt at the postoffice, &c. in manner and form, &c. upon which issue
was alsojoined.
10. The 10th plea was to the 9th count, and averred
tbat the Defendant did not unduly,, inproperly, and negligently, delay, detain and keep in the post-office atWashington, nor any where else, the said letter, &c. in
manner and form, &c. upon this plea also the Plaintiff's
joined issue.

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

153

m. The 1ith plea was to the 5th, 6th, 7th, and .8th DUNLOv.
counts, and averred that the lqss of the letter, &bcwas
not caused or produced by reasou of'the same not hay- MONROE.
-ing -been re-mailed anq sent oi, at and- from the said
post-office at Waslungton, on the gaime day Of the supposed arrival of the said letter aud .bank .iotes at the
said post-office, to wit, on the it day of August, 1806,
and by the same mail which, afterthe said supposed arrivil, and on the sane'day departed from.the satd postoffice at Wasiin.n,. with letters for the said town of
Petersburgh, .ana by.ythb said letter, and bank notes being delayed by the said Thomas in the post-officd at
Washington, until the departure of the next succeeding nail of the 3d of August, in manner and form, &c.
Issue was also joined upon this plea.
12. ThO 12th plea was to the 9thcount, and vies
precis ly like the 1i4th plea.

is. The 13th plea Wds to the.2d) 4th,_:5th, 6th, 7th,
8th and 9th counts and stated that the Defendant, as to
his havihg receivnd the letter, &c.-and living wilfully
and negligently omitted to forward, aid send on ibe
same, in the mail, according :to. the ,rqper destination
of the same, and as to his -having undaly. kept and detained the same in his office, an& as to lns having disregarded the duties of l'is said office, -and-as to-he negligence and misconduct in office imputed ta ,lim the
Defendant, he is not guilty, and of this lie puts himself
upon the country, anid the Plaintiffs likewise. ,
And as'tb the residue df the dlegations,-charges and
complaints of negligence and misconduct-.n the several*
counts last aforesaid ab.ove supposed to be committed
and suffered in the said. post-office at Washngton, the
Defendant (protesting that he has in all things demean.ed.lnmself, in lis said office oi post-master, as a good
and.faithful offiber of ihe United States, and"that he has
always exercised all practicable care and diligence to
,have the business and duties of the said office, regularly, duly and faithfully transacted, performed and executed)-siys4hat at the time when, &c. lie took due precaution, &. by selecting and appointing proper person,
&c. &c..(as, in the th plea) and if the said letter, &c,
were delivered at his office at Washington, and. if the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
puilmor same were, by. cason of any casual negligence, misconv.
duct, mauvertance, oversight, error or mistake of any
musNxon. person or persons so employed and entrusted in the said
oflice., not in fact duly re-mailed, f6rwarded and sent on,
&c., such the delivery of the-Laid letter, &c. at the said
office at Washington was entirely unknown to the Defendant, and every -such misconduct, &c was likewise
entirely unknown to the Defendant, and was not caused
or. produced by any misdemeanor in office of the Defdndant, nor willingly or knowingly suffered or permitted by him, but was caused and produced by-the
casual, inadvertent and unintentional mistake, error
4nd oversight of som'e person or persons so appointed,
&c., and altogether without the consent or knowledge
of the Defendant, and against ins will. ,'tnd.so the Defendant says that he, took due precaution and used all
reasonable care, diligence and cu'cumspection to cause
the said supposed letter, &c. (if ever in fact delivered
and given in charge of the said post-office) to be duly
sent oh and forwatrded, &c., and this lie is ready to
verify, &c.
.1o the latter part of this plea, as pleaded to the 5k
-and 9th counts, the Plaintiffs, by way of replication,
(protesting that the Defendant did not use due care in
selectihg proper persons, &c, and that the loss of the
letter, &c. did not happen without the knowledge, consent and authority of the Defendant) say, &c. that the
letter, &c. regularly arrived at the post-office of the
Defendant on the 1st of August, 1806, and were received by him, and ought to have been sent on or caused to have been sent on by him on that day in the mail,
&c. which regularly arrived at Petersburgl, and that
he did not do so, and did not use due care and diligence
ii re-mailing and forwarding the same, aid 'did delay
and detain the same unduly, negligently and improperl. -whereby the same have been lost, &c. 'without this,
that the loss of the said letter, &c. was caused or produced by a..y act without the control, knowledge or authority of the Defendant in his office, and which, by
using due and re-sonable diligence in his said office, lie
could not have prevented. And this they are ready to
verify, &c.

To this replication the Defendant demurred.

FEBRUARY TERM ±8i2.
To the latter part of the 1.th plea, as pleaded to .the 3n-N.Ol
2d, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th counits, the Plaintiffs demurv.
red.
M1UNROE.
11. The 11th plea was to the same counts, and was
the same in substance as the i3th, -and the Plaintiff,
demurred to it as a plea to the 2d, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th
counts, and replied to it as a plea to- the 5th and 9th
couhts, to winch replication the Defendant demurred.

15. The 15th plea was to the same counts as the 13th
plea, and was liko it, except that it averred that if there
was any error or-omission, &c. it was without the Defendant's knowledge and consent, and without any
fraitd, or zvifidl, or gross negligence of any person bi'
him employed.
To this plea were the same replication and demurrer
as to the 13th.
16. The 16th plea was to the 2d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th,
Ath and 9th counts, and, after protesting as in the 13th
plea, and admitting that the letter, &c. were not duly
iremailed and sent on by the mail of the 1st of August
as itought to have been, avers that it was sent on by
the. jext'mail,-which left Washington on the 3d of August, and after departing from the post-office at Washington, and being entirely without thecare and custody
of the Defendant, and of every person employed in his
post-office, were taken and embezzled. by some person
or persons as yet undiscovered and unknown, and so
16,5t t6 the Plaintiffs without any partieipation, oonnivance, procurment, consent, or knowledge of the Derendant; or ;f any personemployed or entrusted in his
post-offce.
To this, plea as pleaded to the 2d, Ith, 5th, 6th and
'th counts the PlaintiWs demurred, and. as pleaded to
the 8th and 9th counts they replied in substance that
by reasonable care and diligence the letter, &c. might
have been sent on by themail.of.the Ist'of August, and.
was not, and that the Ipss happened thereby, and concluded to the Country..
To thiis replication the Dfendant iletnurred.

SUPREME COUWr V. S.
i7. The iith plea"Was to the 2d, Mb, 5th, 6th, .70h9
8th and 9th.countss and was like the 16th plea. in ll
V.
MuxNoB. respects, except that it concluded with the following
traverse, viz. c -without this, that the loss of the said
---,letter and bank notes aforesaid was caused or pro"duced by. reason of the same not having beenare-mall,ed and sent on, as aforgsaid, in the mail of the Ist of
-August, as afort said, according-to the post-master
"general's instructions as aforesaid, instead of having
"been delayed for the next succeeding mail of te 3d
"of the same Augustas aforesaid, and re-mailed and
"sent on II that mail as aforesaid."

uDI oP

On this plea as pleaded to the 9th count, the.Plaintiff
took issue upon the traverse, and demurred to the. ple
as pleaded to all the other count6.
i8. The-sthpplea was to the 5th 6th, 7th, 8th and
9th counts, an(, after protesting,as in the ith plea,
averred, that according to the duly established regulations of the post-office, and the.instructions of the postmaster.general in the-declaration mentioned, and then
.in fuhl'force, all letters, &c. put into the post-office at
Pbiladalplua directed to Petersburgbh, ought to have
been put tip in a separate and distinct mail, directed to
:Petersburgh, which mail ought to have been. sent oil
through the several intermediate post-offices, fcin
Philadelphia t6 Petersburgh, and which, according to
the regulations and instructions aforesaid could not
have been properly ojmned either at the post-office in
'Washington, nor at -any other intermediate post-office
on the route from Philadelphia to Petershurgh, for any
purpose whatever; and no such letters, &c. ought; according to the said regulations and instructions, to have
been put up and sent on in any mail, winch, according
to We direction of the same) and the said regulations
and instructions, could have been properly opened at
the post-office in FVashington to be there distributed
and re-mailed previous to being sent'on a'nd forwardedto Petersburgh, and that -the l-tter, &c. opglzt not to
have been put up and sent on from the post-office it
Philadelphia in any mail to be opened, distributed amd
re-mailed at the post-office at Washington, but in a
separate and-distinct mail, directd to Petershurgm, and
to be sent on through time post-offico At Washington.

FEBIRUARY TERM is2.
Without being there opened, disi*ibuted or're-m4iled. nNL&
v.
Whereas the said letter, &c. was not, &c. but together
with all the other letters. sent by the;same post, afid'di-- AuNROA,
rected and destined for Petershrgh, was contrary to .--..
the sajd regulations, &c. sent on fioni Philadelphia in a
mail winch, according to the directfbj4 of-the'zame, and
the said regulations, &c. was to be opened at the postoffice in Washington for the .purpose of 'bemg -distributed and re-mailed, &c., and-the Defendant-says that
if the said letter, &c. had been put up in a.distinct and
separate mail directed ',to Petersburgh, it would' have
been duly sent on in the mail of the first of August;and so )he .delay was occasioned by the erroneous andirregular-manner in which the l-tter wi .put up aumt
sent on from Philadelphia, ad not by the uegligeno;:"
carelessness or nisconduct .of tle Defendant in- is of-,
flee: ,, oithout tlis th~at the 5aid letter was.put aud for"warded inthe mailat and from Pihiladelphia, and dQcc livered at the said .post-office in %Vashigton in any"other manner than as aforesaid, and tins he, is ready
f
" to verify," &c.
To this plea, as-pleaded to the 5th count, the PlaintifN
demurred, and as pltaded to the other.-counts,-tliey replied and (after protesting that the post-master at
Philadelphia was not bound to send on the letter in a'
separate mail directed to Petersburgh, &c. and protesting that the loss of the letter or the delay, &c. was notoccasioned by the supposed' erroneous manner in which
it was put up. and sent on-from Philadelpna) for replication said, that thp letfer, &e. was put up and forwarded-by the post-master at Philadelphia, according to the
said instructions of the post-master -general, in a mail
addressed " Southern," containmng the letters. addressed
to pleces in Virgiia, and was" ihereafter -duly and.
regularly placed in the post-office in Washington on the'
Ist of August to be red-mailed and selit or in the mnail of
-that day, and that the xlelay and loss were not'occasioned by any error or irregularity in the manner in which
it was put up and sent on from Philadelphia, -but wag
occasionedby the-want of -due and-reasonable care and
diligence in the performance -of the duties of the postoffice at Washington on the first of August;' and- conclqded to the country..

VO. -V111f

41

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Duter"

To this replication the Defendant demurred.

V.

MUNROEd

All the demurrers were decided by the Court below
in favor of the Plaintiffs.
Upon the trial of the issues of fact the Plaintiffs took
seven bills ofexception.
1. The fir~t bill of exception stated that the Plaintiffs
offered evidence to the jury that the Defendant was
deputy post-master at the city of Washington from the
ist of January, 1806, until the time of trial, and had
uniler his management and 'direction the affairs and
business of the post-office at that place; and the Plaintiffs produced and read to the jury the printed instructions of the post-master general of the United States:
and proved bjr a witness that those were the instructions delivered.to the Defendant for his government in
the duties of his office as deputy post-master in the city
of Washington. The.Plaintiffs further produced to the
jury evidence that they had . 2,000 in bank notes in
the hands of Walker and Kennedy, merchants at Philadeiphia, and that that sum of money, in bank notes,
was enclosed in a sealed letter and directed to the Plaintiffs, at Petersburgh in Virginia, the place of their residence, and put into the post-office at Philadelphia, and
was by the post-master at that place forwarded in the
mail addressed to the state of Yirginza on the S1st of
July, 1806. That it arrived in due course of post at the
post-office in the city of Washington under the care and
management of the Defendant. That it was the duty
of the -office at Washington, as a distributing office, to
open the said mail so addressed, and to forward t6 Petersburgh in Virginia the said letter according to its
address. That the said letter was lost and never arrived
at the post-office in Petersburgh nor came to the hands
of the Plaintiffs, and that the same was demanded of
the Defendant, who denied lie was liable for it. It was
admitted that the course of conveying the mail from
Philadelphia to Petersburgh is as follows: the Virginia
mail, tied witha string and wrapt in papers, is, with
many other mails similarly secured, enclosed in a locked portmanteau, and sent by stage to the city of WashIngtoh, distant 141 miles. No person or post-office between Philadelbhia and Washington is legally autho-

FEBRUARY TERM i8i2.
rized to open the mail addressed to Virginia, but the
portmanteau is unlocked and opened at the Baltimore
post-office, and the various mails are there taken out of
the portmanteau, in order to select the Baltimore mail.
Whenthe mail arrives at the post-office in Washington
the mailaddressed to Virginia is opened in said office
as a distributing office, and the letters addressed to Petersburgh assorted, tied and wrapped as aforesaid, and
put into a mail addressed to the post-office at Petersliubgh. tThe said Petersburgh mail so tied and wrapped
is, with many other tnairs, put into the portmanteau,
which'is locked and opened on the route only at Fre.
dericksburgli and Richmond. But the said Petersburgh
mail, wrapped in paper and tied with a string as aforesaid, though it may properly-he taken out of the portmanteau with the other mails at Fredericksburgh and
Richmond as aforesaid, cannot be legally opened at any
office between Washington and Petersburgh. Whereupon the Plaintiffs' counsel prayed the Court to instruct
the jury, that if they should find the above facts to be
true the Pliintiffs were entitled to recover in this cAse
on their td count, unless the Defendant should prove
the said letter to have, been forwarded from his office in
the timne and manner prescribed by law and the said instructions of the post-master general, which opinion the
Court refused to .ive.
2. The,2d bill of exceptions stated the same facts,
and that thereupon the Plaintiffs' counsel prayed the
Court to instruct the jury that if they should find those
facts to be true, then the Plaintiffs were entitled to recover inthis case upon their %thand 5th counts, unless
the Plaintiff should prove the said letter to have been.
forwarded from his office i reasonable time, and in the
manner prescribedby law and the instructions of the
post-master general, which instruction thi Court refused to give.
3. The 3d bill of exception stated, that, in addition
to the above facts, the Plaintiffs offered evidence, undei
the issues joined on the 6th and iOth pleas, to prove
that the letter and bank notes were lost by the negligence and carelessness of Henry Whetcroft and William
Hewitt sworn clerks and assistants employed by the
Defendant in his said post-office; and also certain acts

iDNioP
T.

uNim-oE.

.

-

UPREV'E COURTU. S.
Dumup of onussion, undue delay an deteiltion-of the aid letter.
v
and-bank- notes byuch cleiks anid asistants of the DeMuxto.. fendant, to the competency of which hvidenee to support the Issues joined on the 6th and .oth :pleas on -the
part of Plaintiffs, the Defendafit objected, tnd the
-Court.was of opinion that uider those issues 'such edence was incompetent, and refused to suffer -the -same
to be given to the jury under those issues" an4mstruct.
cd the. jury that tbe Defendant Was not liable.-under
those'ssups for any acts or-onjissions of his said clerks
and assistants, -to -which.refusal. ai opinion the Plaintiffs excepted.
b., The 4th bill of-exceptions stated that the -Plaintiffs
oflered evidence of the facts stated in their 5th and 8th
conntq, and moved the Court to instruct the jury that
if they should'bolieve fi-om tho evidence that -the letter
9nd bank notes were dulv/delivred into the-Defendantis
post-oflloe,- then.it was. incumbent on -the -Defendant to
prove that.the same-were duly forwarded. And -if the
Jury should-further believe that the -same were not so
forwarded and-had becotne lost, then it was incumbent
on tihe Defendant to prove that the same were not 4ost
by any, undue negligence -or unreasonable detention -of
himself or any person employed by him -in his -offie-;
which instruction the Court refuse4 -to give, but -instructed them that if the jury should believe from the
oidence that the letter and bank notes were duly deli,rcd into the Defendant's office, then it was incumbent.
On-the'Defendant io 0i¢ove that the same were duly forwarded, and if the jury should further believe-that the
same. wereso delivered and were-not-so, forwarded, and
had bepomne-lost tnconsequence iliereofi then it was incunfbent on the Defendant toprove that the same -were
not lost by any undue negligence and unreasonable detention of himself or any other person employed by him
in his office. To -which refusal the Plaintiffs excepted.
5. The. Bth bill of exceptions stated, in addition-tothefact. before stated, that the -Plaintiffs offered -in evideiie..a copy of a. post-bill from P-hiladelphia, of the
"At of July, 4806, (shewing that a letter whose posie was.qne dollar and 20 cents. corresponding -with
the .potage upon the letter m 4tuestion, was -charged in
tllqprit bill from Philadelphia to the state of:Vrginia,)

FEBRUARY TERM isim.
and'offered to prove -thatthq..post-bill, of whch it was a nui~l
r,
copy, was received at the "Defendants post-office with
letters in -the-mail from Philadelphia. And the Defen- mvwto,,

-dant offered evidence to pr'ove that it never was the.---.-..

custom, until after the report ofthe loss of the letter and
banknotes in.question, for the actwiu contents of the-mails,
sent to the said office for distribution, to'b compared
with the contents noted sit the accoimpanyngpost-bilaj 'except that it was customary to examine the column of
paid letters in order to see whether as many paid letters,
and of the same amount of postage, caine on ii.theinail)
that this was done because the deputy post-master had
to account to -the post-master geneyal for all letters
sent on fromIns office and marked paid, whether orxgi
nally'put into lnq office, or coming there in mails for
distribution , and according to the routine of office, any'
deficiency, appearing o.n the arrival of the mail, in the
alnount of postage marked i his post-bill as c"paid,"
would be chargeable to him, that xi no other respect
was any attention paid, or notice taken, whether -the
actual contents of the mail, as to any lettefs not marked
;c paid," corresponded, or not, with the post-bill. That.
if, by accident, any variance between the post-bill and
the actual contents of the mail received for distribution,
was discovered, it would never be noted in the office,
inasmuch as the printed forms, furnished to the Defendant and.other deputy post-masters, from the post-master general for the account of'mailsfor distribution, contained no column for noting letters either over-charged,
or under-charged or miss-sent, such as are to be found
in the form furnished for account of mails for deliery,
and marked No. 1, in the schedule annexed to the instructions of 1801.
Whereupon, the Plaintiffs prayed the Court to in-.
struct the jury that if they b~lieved from the evidence.
that the copy of the post-bill produce i was a true copy
of the post-bill sent on from Philadelphia to the Washington post-office, and that the salne was received with
letters in the mail from Philadelpha at the Defendants
office, then the jury ought to presume that the-letters
accompanying the said post-bill corresponded thereNrith,
unless the Defendant should prove the contrary, which
instruction the Court refused to give as prayed, but
instructed the jury that it ts competent for them, from

SUPREME COURT U. S.
DVNLoP

those circumstances, sa to presume; and to decide up.

v.

on tile force of such presumption from all the circumstances proved in the case, to which refusal and nstruction the Plaintiffs excepted.

MURNROB.

6. Tbe 6th exception was to the refusal of the Courf
to suffer a witness to be asked whether the printed general instructions from the post-waster general given to
the deputy post-masters in 180, superseded those before
given to the post-master in Philadelphia in 1800, both
instructions having been produced and read in evidence
to the jury.
7., The 7th bill of exceptions stated that the Plaintiffs
offered evidence to "-prove the several allegations in the
66 said declaration, and further offered in evidence the
,6several printd instructions of the post-master gend'eral (thereto annexed) and also the depositions (there" to annexed and which tended to prove the delivery of
-the letter and bank notes into' the post-office at Phila"delpbia and their arrival at the post-officq in Wash"ington.) And the Defendant offered evidence to prove
"that ,Petersburgh, ever since the Ist of Noveniber,
"(1801, was a distributing post-office as established by
"the said instructions, that after the said instructions
"it was the practice of post-offices, (except that of
"'Philadelphia) in which letters were deposited fot- Peoctersburgh, to put the same up in a separate mail ad-6 dressed to Petersbugh, and not in the Yirgima state
"mail.
That the Philadelphia post-offi~e, since the
"'said Ist of August, 1806, and not before, has adopted
66 the same practice. That the Virginia state mail above
" mentioned contained the letters directed .to the several
"post-offices in Virginia, except Norfolk and RichmondI
"and also the letters directed to the states Qf Ohio and
"Kentucky, and that before the letters for Petersbugh
"contained in the said mail could be distributed and
"re-mailed, it was necessary to assort and distribute the
,whole contents of the said mail.
"The Plaintiffs then moved the Coirtto instruct theju"ry, thatif they should believe from the evidence, thatthe
,letter and the'bayik notes in the declaration mentioned,
"were put, at the post office in Philadelphia, in a hun" dIe superscribed " irgusna state mails," and that it

FEBRUARY TERNI ISMo
7
had been, since the year 1800, and was the practice, pDyutoA
V.
months
the
during
' in the saiul Philadelphia post-office

,of July and August, 1806, to send letters for delivei MuNlloz.
,atPetersbugh, Virginia, -in that manner; and that all
",letters in the Virginia state mail, for Petersburgh,
,,Virginia, brought to the Defendant's office, had been
"susually re-mailed, distributed, aud sent on from the
"post-office kept by the Defendant, to Petersburgh
"aforesaid, and should be further of opinion that the
"said letter,, containing the said bank notes, was deli-"vered in the said bundle superscribed "Virginia state
"mail," on the first day of August, 1806, in the said
", office of the Defendant, and in due time to be re-mailed,
"distributed and sent on by the Dfenilant on .the first
,,day of August, 1806, from his aforesaid office, Ma
"bundle addressed to Petersburgh, Virginia, then it was
"the duty of the said Defendant to have re-mailed, dis,tributv, and sent on the said letter by the mail which
,left the Washington post-office on .the said first day
"cof August, 1806, and if they further believe that this
"was not so done, or caused to'be done by the said De"fendant, that it is incumbent on the Defendaut to make
"out a just, reasonable and sufficient excuse for the
,,omission." which instruction the Court-refused-to
gi~e as prayed, and the Plaintiffs excepted.
The a6t of congress of Marchl2d, 1799, Vol.4, p. SOB,
establishes a general post-office at the seat of government of the United States, under the direction of a postmaster general, and enacts. that'li shall establish potoffices, and appoint post-masters, at all such places as
shall appear -to him expedient, on the post-roads that
are or may be established by law. And that he plbali,
give the post-masters 2nstructions relative to theil 'duty, and shall obtain from them thejr accounts and
vouchers, &e. once in three months &c. That all persons employed in the.care of the maiLshall take an oath
faithfully to \perform the duties required of them, and
abstain fron every thing forbidden by the laws in relation to the establishment of the post-office, and postroads withi~n the United States. That every post-master shall keep an office in which one or more persons
shall attend at such hours 's the post-master general
shall dir&t, for the purpose of performing the duties
thereof, and all letters brought to any post-office half

90,

$UPREME CoJRT-U. S.

z.irxp an hour before.the thne of making up Oe iail of sucd
V.
o~Iccq shall be fprwarded therein., except at such postMuNRou. offices where,'in the opinion of the post-master genera§
it'requires more time for making* Rp .he mail, and
which he shall accordingly prescribe ;-but this shall mno ca e exceed one hour.
Tjhat if any person employed in any of the departments of the general post-ogice shajl.secrete, embezzle,
or destroy any, letter with which li skall be entrusted,
or which shall have come to his possessiom and-intended
to be conveyed by post, containing any barlf note, &c.
he shall, on conviction, be publicly whipped not ex
ceeding forty stripes, and be imprisoned not rxccding
ten;£rs.
That the, post-master general be authorized, to allow
to. the post-miagters, respectively, such commission on
the momes arising from the .postages, or siall be adequate to their respective services and expenses, not
exceeding, &c.
The instructions of the post-master general, issued
in pursuance of this. act, to- the post-masters in 1SQ4,,
required that every person employed in a. post-office as
assistant or clerk should take the oath, and send a certificate. thereof to the general post-office. That every
post-mlister should be responsible ,for the care aaiifideli"ty of epery person so employed." That "the post*'maslers at'distributing offices are to distribute and,
"re-mail all letters and packages before-the departure
of the mail, and onLno account delay them a sirglcpost."
The- verdict and judgment of the Court below being
foit the Defendant, the Plaintiffs brought their writ of
error.
F S. Kny and C. LuE, for the Plantiffs i error
The 3d bill of exceptions brings into view the ques
tioi .whether the negligence of the Defendant's clerks
cart be given in evidence to prove an allegation of negligence of the Defendant himself, which necessarily
ivdlves the question whether the Defendant is liablefox tte negligence of his clerks. This bill of excepr.

FEBRUAItY TE

1 f81!2.

tioes arose lipon the issues joindd on the 6th and flth "Duxxow
V.
pleas. Tile 6fh plea was, that the letter was not lost
by the ncgligenco.br misconduct of the Defendant in-hrs Muimo..
office-arid the ipth was, that the DVendant had not
,negligently or improperly delayed or detained the letter
in the officei
Tile law in respect to the liability- of, the post-Taoter
general is admitted to be the same here as itis stated in
Ld. le Despencer's,case, cCoiop. 754.) to be in'nglaud.
But the opinion of lord .Mfansfield,9 in that.case, clearly
shows that the action lies i' the present case. In the
case of Brker v. Fromont, 6 T. R. 659, it is decided
that a declaration which charges the Defendant wih negligence, is stipported by proof of the negligence of his
servant. Where tlhp negligence is in a post-ofilbe, it is
scarcely possible, in any case, for a Plaintiff to know
exactly to which of the persons, employed in the officej
the. negligence is to be attributed. If, as the Courtbe.low decided, the Defendant is liable for the negligence
of his cler'ks, it seems to be immaterial whether the 'declaration state the neglect to be on the part of the DefenZhnt or of his clerks, or state it in the alternative. A
collector of the revenue is liable for his deputies, although thoy are sworn officers. Yet the secretary of
the treasury it not liable for the collectors. -So the
marshal is liable for his deputies, who are-also sworn
officers, and who give bond for the faithful discharge
of their duty Why should there be a difference in the
case of a post-master ?
The 4.th exception is, that the Court refused to instruct the jury, that proof of negligence and loss
raised a presumption that the loss was a consequence
of the negligence, unless the contrary be shown. Or,
in other words, the Court below decided, that proof.of
neglience and loss (lid not throw the burden of proof
on the defendant, to show that the loss was not a consequence of the negligence. To oblige the Plaiitiffs to
prove, that the loss was a consequence of that negligence, was to impose upon them an impossibility in the
nature of things.
The 5th exception is to the refusal of the Court to
instruct the jury, that they ought to ifer that the con35
VOL VIT.

SUPiEME COURT U. 0.
DuNuop tents of the mail from Philadelphia corresponded with
10.
the post-bill when it was received at the Washington
munoe . office, unless -the Defendant should prove the contrary.
What Ajury may infer from facts proved, is a question of law for the Court to decide. And what a jury
may thus infer, they are bound tn law to infer, unless
the contrary be proved. The Court, therefore, ought
not to have left the matter entirely to the jury, but to
have given the instruction as prayed.
Presumptions are inferences of law. Thus from long
possession, the Court will instruct the jury that they
ought to presume a deed. So from evidence of payment
of the last ten years rent, the jury ought'to presume all
the former rents were paid. So in trover, from evidence of a demand and refusal, the jury ought to
presume a conversion. So, if stolen goods are found
in possession of a man, the jury ought to presume that
lie stole them, unless the contrary be shewn.
The 7th exception raises the question whether the De1'endaxit was not bound to re-mail and send on the letter, according to law, and the instructions of the postmaster general, although the mail arrived at his office
in an irregular manner.
Upon this point the 5th section of the post-office law.
(-ol. 4, p. 5o7,) and the instructions, are decisive.
These instructions being given in conformity with the
law, become part thereof, and are equally binding.
JoxNs and Mosr.uLL, contra.
All the questions in this case are resolved into one.
viz. On which side was the burden of proof in certain
stages of the trial. All the exceptions are grounded
upon the idea, that it was only necessary for,the Plain tiffs to show negligence in the oAce, and a loss, of th.
letter, without showing that the loss was a consequence
of the negligence.
We admit that the Defendant is liable for any loss
happemng by his own hegligence-but we deny that lie

FEBRUARY TERM 1812.

267

is liable for that of his clerks. The act of Congress
requires that thte Defendant should employ clerks, and
that they should be sworn, and imposes specific penalties upon each person employed in the, office for his own
misconduct. They are all public officers, and-liable to
be charged ex delict offiii. The post-master is only
bound to use due care and circumspection in selecting
proper clerks. He is not like. a common carrier, who
receives hire in proportion to the risk, and the value of
the article. He has only a compensation for his troublein the office. The liability of a master arises from
Ins supposed assent, arising from the fact that the servant is employed for the benefit of the master. But
here the clerk does not act for the post-master, but for
the public. The servant must be employed in the business of the master and for his benefit, or the latter will
not be liable.
JoNsoN, J. It has never been attempted to assimilate him to a common carrier. He has nothing to do
with the carrying of the mail.
Ioi s. It is decided in England, that the post-nutster general in England is not liable for his deputies.
Lane v. Cottoil. i Ld. Puay. 6-7 1 Salk. 17
The instructions from our post-master general to the
post-masters, that they should be liable for their deputies or clerk, &c. only means that they shall be liable in
accpmting with him officially foi the revenue. lie could
not make them liable to individuals.
In the case of hlownzvW v. Goodehild, 2 W B1. 906.
5 Ws. *13, the principal question was, whether the
post-master was bound to send out the letters to the inhabitants, but a question incidentally arose whether the
action, which was brought against the deputy post-master, should not have been brought against the post-master general. The Court, however, was of opinion, that
in all cases, deputies are answerable for their own personal misfeasance, such as detaining the letter in question. And in that case the deputies were made, by act
of parliament, ex necessitate rez, substantive officers,
and their duty pointed out as such.
But if the Defendant was liable for the default of his

DUN02-

V.
MuNnOR.

SUPREIAI

4"OlUx V. S.,

nux.op clerks, yet the declaration ought to have shown, iyheI.
ther the Defendant was called ulion to account for is
muNioE. own negligence, or that of his 'clerks., The case of
Brucker .-. Trovionf, 6 T. R1. 659, was reluctantly decided upon the authority of .Zurbefville -v. ,S
tampe, Ud,
Bay. 26o,.hut which does nt support the case of BrueIer
v. Fromont, which is evidently agaihst principle, and
at-all events is confined to the case. of master and servant. In the following cases, a discrrrination is made
in the declaration between tile act pf the. master, and,
that of las servants. Turner v. Hazvk-zns,. I .qo 4
Pil. 472. ..Ogle o., Barnes, 8 T. 1. 188. Saozgnac -v,
Roqme, 6 T. 1I.
125.
Presumptions arising from circumstantial evidencare always to be left to tlie jury Such a ppsitive znfe,
rence as will justify the Court in directing thejiry, timt
they ought to make it, can arise only from sore solemn
act. In the present cae there was 'other evtlenee.
showing that no such inference could be drawn as thPlainffls had supposed, and therefore the Court dld
right to'leave the whole to the jury.
The 7th excetmon required the Court to say, that the
Defendant as'bound to send on the letter on the ist of
August, or to show a reasonable excusq for not sending
it on, althoug, the mail was made up in an irregular,
manner in Philadelphia. The idea of reasonable diligence is.
excluded-and it supposes the Dfundant bQund
at all events to, send the letter on by tha. mail, or to
give a sufficient excuse for not doing so, although lie
sent it by the next mail, and althouob the loss was not
the consequence of not sending it on the ist of August.
The Defe.ndant w.is not bound to show that he sent it
on, it would be impossible in the course of the business
of the office to prove the sending on of every particular
letter. Sworn oflicers are presumed to have done their
duty, until the contrary is proved. 3 East. Williamrs v.
B. L Company.
fifarch 14th .....
OU the Judges being present,

JouNsfo)N, 3 deliverod. the opinion of the Court as
follows

FEBRUARY TERM i812.
'Itis necssary~o dissipate the cloud of pleadifig in rDuNor'
Which this case is enveloped, in order to form a distinct
10.
'idea of'the quedtions intented to be brought to.the view muNoE.
of the Court below.
The object is to charge the post-master with the loss
of money sent by mail, and the points, which the exreptions are inTended to make are, how far he is liable
for his Q_ p4-or neglect, how.far. for the acts or neglect of his'assistants,, and what evidence shall be suffici.tnt.to support the Plaintiff's avtion.
, 'But unfdrtunately, as not unfrequently happens in
this complex and injudicious mode of conducting a suit,
with all the qlerical skill displayed by counsel in multiplying thew counts and pointing their bills of exceptipns, the pincipl questions are really, at last, not
brQught to the view of this Court.
On the ftrmt and second exception it is unnecessary
to make any remark, as they are admitted to apply to
counts which the evidence did not support and have
been, in fact, abandoned.
The third. exception is intended to raise the question
how far. a post-master is liable for the neglect ot his assistants, bR, connected with the leadings, it preseut&
another and a'very different question, to wit, whetfr,
when the issue is taken upon the neglect of the postmaster himself, it is competent to give in evidence, neglect in the assistant acting untler lm. Now the distinction between the relation of a -post-master to his
sworn *assistant acting under hih, and between master
-and servant generally, has long been settled, and althlough the-latter relation might sanction the admission
of Auch evidence, we are,unanimously of.opinion that,
if it is intended to charge a post-master for the negligence of his assistants, the pleadings must be made up
according tor the case; and his liability then will only
result fronm, his own neglect in not properly superintending the, discharge'of their duties in hus pffice.
In-the foufth excgption, the only difference between
the opinion prayed fdr and that given, is, that the Court
require.the.loss to be 4, consequence -of not-forwardipi

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the letter described in the declaration. Now, in justico
V.
to the correctness of the.Plaintiffs' counsel, this Court
zuNRoB. hope that they meant nothing more than what the
Court conceded, for, certainly, if the loss was not a
consequence of the state of things made out in the evidence, they were not entitled to recover.

iDuNIoP

On the fifth exception it is only necessary to remark,
that if the Court below erred at all, it was in conceding
too much to the prayer of the Plaintiff. An entry on
the post-bill is by no means conclusive evidence of the
transmission of a letter, for, it may still never have
been put into the mail, or may have been stolen in its
pass ge.
The sixth exception is equally untenable. The instructions of the post-master general spoke for themselves. If the one superseded or rescinded the other,
the evidence was to-be sought for by comparing them
tot-ether.
And the seventh exception affords the Court an opportunity to remark how much more conducive to the
purposes of justice it would be to substitute special
verdicts, and demurrers.to evidence, for the tedious and
embarrassing practice of the Court from 'wich thi.9
case comes up.- It is a-fact that this bill .of exceptions
dlaims a right of recovery without stating any loss or
damage whatever. The opinion prayed for was, that
if the jury believed the various facts therein detailed,
then it is incumbent on the Defendant to make out a
3ust, reasonable and sufficient excOse for omitting to
forward the letter dscribed. But, unless an individuil has sustained some loss or damage by an omission
of that kind, why should the post-master be ,held to
.make out a defence? Each bill of exceptions must be
-oonsidered as presenting a distinct, substantive case,
and it is on the evidence stated in itself alone that the
Court is to decide. We cannot jo beyond it and collect other facs -which must have been in the min1 of
the party, and the Insertion of wich in this bill of exc.eptions could aloike have sanctioned the opinion as
prayed fnr
Upon the wholej the judgiumit below must be affirmed.

