Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD

v.

FOSTER.

Syllabus.

Prior regulations had been made in the reported case containing our fdrmer decision which gave the depositor the
right to make such demand at four stated periods in the
year, but in the case before the court no regulation upon the
subject has been adopted other than what appears in the written agreement, which has never been enforced. Whether it
ever will be or not is a matter which cannot be kniown, nor
is such an inquiry of any importance in the present case, as
the court is of the opinion that the stipulation, inasmuch as
it has never become operative, cannot avail the plaintifs in
this controversy.
Beyond all question the bank has capital stock, and inasmuch as 10 per cent. of it is set apart for the stockholders,
it is not correct to say that the business which the bank does
in receiving deposits-and loaning and investing the same is
done without compensation to the dssociation.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is clear that
the bank does not fall within the category described in the
proviso, and that the tax was legally assessed and collected.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

tions to issue a

and the cause remanded with direc-

NEW VENIRE.

GODDARD V. FOSTER.
1. A., at Valparaiso, was the agent, under an agreement of May 7th, 1849,
of B., at Boston, who was sending him adventures and shipments of
goods, he selling the goods and investing the proceeds in other merchandise consigned to B., who sold the return cargoes; keeping an account
of the profit and loss. A. was to have one-quarter of the net profits of
B.'s business, that he, A., "9conducted to completion," but was at liberty to withdraw from the arrangement at any time, "1by giving B. so
much notice that any voyage he, B., may have commenced previous to
receipt of such advice, shall receive the full benefit of all A.'s service to
its final accomplishment."
On the 22d of February, 1850, A. wrote to B. that he had resolved to join
a Valparaiso house, which he named, but added: "I will manage your
business as usual until 31st December, which will afford you ample time

GODDARD V. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
to make your arrangements for sending some one out, if you are inclined." B. received this letter May 29th, 1860, and afterwards loaded
and dispatched a ship consigned to A., or "1in his absence," to the house
which he had mentioned as the one he had resolved to join. A. coneluded the whole business of this voyage as he had done that of previous
voyages; but it was not "conducted to completion" prior to December
31st, 1850.
Held, that A.'s letter of 22d February was to be taken as if he had said:
"1In the interval, before the arrival of any new agent to represent you,
I will perform the same services for the new voyages not covered by the
contract of May 7th, 1849, that I have rendered in the voyages covered
by the contract, and that your new agent would perform were he here;"
and, accordingly, that for all services performed by him in regard to
this voyage he was entitled to be paid what the services were reasonably
worth.
2. The rule of law that the interpretation of written instruments is a question of law for the court, is applied with full force to agreements to be
deduced from the correspondence of the parties, and the fact that the
language of the letters containing the offer or acceptance is doubtful,
does not relieve the court of this duty, or make the question one of fact
for the jury. It is only where terms used are technical, or terms havihg
a peculiar meaning in a particular trade or place, that the aid of the
jury is invoked to-ascertain their meaning.
8. Where interest is allowed, not under contract, but by way of damages,
the rate must be according to the lex fori.

to the Circuit Court fof the District of New York;
the case being thus:
In'
June, 1843, G. J. Foster and W. W. Goddard entered
into an agreement, in writing, under seal, by which Foster
agreed to go to the west coast of South America, and there
reside as Goddard's agent for five years, selling the outward
cargoes, purchasing return cargoes, collecting and forwarding information, and attending to the business and dispatch
of the defendant's ships, giving his'whole time to the business, in consideration of one-tenth of the net profits at the
end of the term, or $1000 per annum if the one-tenth of the
profits amounted to less than that sum.
Under this agreement Foster went to'the west coast of
South America, and there resided during the five years, per-forming his part of the agreement, and at its expiration, in
1848, returned to Boston, where the parties made a new
agreement in writing and under seal, dated. May 7th; 1849,
ERROR

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD V. FOSTER.
Statement of the case.

by which Foster agreed to return to the west coast, upon a
similar employmnent, giving his whole time to Goddard's business
in consideration of "one-quarter of the net profits of Goddard's business in that trade;that he (Foster) shall have conducted to completion," to-be paid to him on his return. This
agreement provided that Foster was to leave in Goddard's
hands his share of the profits under the former agreement;
that Foster might withdraw from this arrangement, "which
he is at liberty to do at any time, by giving said Goddard so
much notice that any voyage he may have commenced previous
to receipt of such advice, shall receive the full benefit of all said
Foster'sservices to its final accomplishment, and not otherwise."
It also provided that Goddard might "annul the agreement
whenever he may choose to do so," and that Foster should
be liable "to the full extent of his interest and means for all
losses in the business, and for all risks and casualties attendant thereon."
Foster, under this agreement, returned to the coast and
continued to transact the business required of him, and on
the 22d of February, 1850, wrote to Goddard that he had
determined to join the house of Alsop & Co. on the 1st of
January, 1851. In this letter he said:
"I will manage your business as usual until the 31st of December,
which will afford you ample time to make your arrangements
for sending some one out, if you be inclined."
On the 13th of April, 1850, Goddard replied:
"I am very glad to learn your decision to join the house,-it
being what I would have advised for your own interest."
Goddard's reply was received by Foster May 29th, 1850.
After sending this letter, Goddard loaded and dispatched
from Boston the ship Harriet Erving, upon a voyage styled
hereinafter dher third voyage." She left Boston on the
21st of August, arrived at Valparaiso on the 8th of December, and sailed thence December 27th, for points on the
coast, to complete her cargo, and thence to Boston.
From the inception of this voyage, Goddard advised- Fos-

GODDARD v. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ter by letter of his intentions in relation to her outward and
return cargoes, and instructed him fully as to what he, Foster, should do on the coast in relation to the same.
The cargo was consigned to Foster, "or,-in his absence,
to Alsop & Co."
When the ship sailed from Boston, Goddard instructed
the captain by letter as follows:
"I wish you to proceed in her with all possible dispatch direct to Valparaiso, where my agent, Mr. G. J. Foster, or, in his
absence, Messrs. Alsop & Co., will dispose of your outward
cargo, provide for the wants, -and direct your further movements."
Foster concluded the whole business of this voyage in the
same manner in which he had done that of previous voyages, prepared and forwarded to Goddard a note or memorandum of cargo suitable to be sent to the coast, purchased
and had in readiness for the ship her return cargo, and dispatched her from the coast, di'ected the sale of her outward
cargo, and was in constant communication with Goddard in
relation thereto.
He joined the house of Alsop & dro. on the 1st of January,
1851. At that time there had been sold of the outward
cargo $96,000, and there was afterwards sold $150,000. The
entire service had been performed, so far as the homeward
cargo was concerned, and nine-tenths of his whole services
in relation to the voyage had been performed.
After joining the house of Alsop & Co. he completed the
business of the voyage by directing, as -before, the sale of
the remainder of the cargo. This was done with the knowledge of and, as it appeared, without objection dn the part
of the other-partners in, the house of Alsop & Co.
After. joining the house, he sent a.part of the cargo. to
other points on the coast for a better market, in the exercise,
of his discretion as Goddard's agent, as he had done with
previous cargoes, which Alsop & Co. never did for any of
their correspondents, unless expressly authorized.. The sales
between January 1st and June 30th, at Valparaiso and Lima,

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD v. FOSTER.
Statement of the caie.

amounted to $135,000, and the remainder, about $15,000,
was sold duri.ng the years 1851, 1852, and 1853.
The sales of the outward cargoes and the purchases of the
homeward cargoes were made by Alsop & Co., who advanced
the necessary funds, and charged and received a commission
therefor.
Foster advised Goddard, by private letter of February
25th, 1851, of the sales he was making of the outward cargo,
and that he should work off part of the goods "through
Callao," the port of Lima.
Alsop & Co. rendered accounts of the sales at Valparaiso
and Lima to Goddard.
In November, 1851, one Erving arrived on the coast, to
act as Goddard's agent in the same business, in subsequent
voyages. He took no part in the unfinished business of this
voyage.
Foster returned to the United States in 1856, when Goddard expressed himself perfectly satisfied with everything
he had done in his business.
On the 1st of May, 1857, Foster filed a bill in equity against
Goddard iu the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, for an account, and to recover his share of the profits
under the two agreements of 1843 and 1849. Goddard having
appeared and answered, a decree for an account was entered,
and an account was taken before a master. Upon that accounting Foster claimed, -wnder the agreement of May 7th,
1849, a quarter of the profits of the voyage of the Harriet
Erving, on the ground that by a subsequent agreement of
the parties, shown by their correspondence, it was to be considered as included in that agreement, and that it was substantially brought to a completion before January 1st, 1851.
The master so decided, and reported as due to Foster for
his share in the profits of this voyage, $21 943. Upon exceptions to the master's report, the circuit judge disallowed
this item,* holding that this voyage of 'the Harriet Erving
was not covered by the agreement between the parties of
* 1 Clifford, 158.

GODDARD 'v. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

May 7th, 1849, and upon appeal this court affirmed (and
upon the same ground) the final decree, whereby this item
was disallowed in that suit.* Goddard satisfied the final
decree in that suit.
In this state of things Foster sued Goddard in assumpsit
for services rendered by him in this voyage of the Harriet
Erving.
The first count was on a special agreement to pay onefourth of the profits of the outward and homeward voyages,
being $28,600.44, with interest from March 1st, 1858.t The
second, on a promise to pay a reasonable compensation. The
third, on a promise to pay a reasonable compensation for
services to January 1st, 1851. The fourth and fifth counts
were the common counts of indebitalusassumpsit and quantum
meruit. The damages were laid at $50,000.
The plea was the general issue with notice of defences:
1. A former recovery by the same plaintiff against the
same defendant in the suit in equity in the Circuit Court for
the District of Massachusetts, brought for an account under
the agreement between the parties of May 7th, 1849, and
that the defendant's services, if any, now sued for, were rendered under that agreerment.
2. The statute of limitations.
Pursuiant to the notice the defendant offered in evidence
the record in the equity suit as a bar to the pending action,
but the court rejected the evidence.
He also offered the same record in evidence as a bar to all
claim in the action for services rendered for him before the
close of the year in which the plaintiff had given notice of
his withdrawal from the second written agreement. But the
court rejected the evidence as inadmissible even for that
purpose.
Evidence was offered by the plaintiff of the value of his
services, to which the defendant objected, insisting that the
services of the plaintiff in respect to that voyage, if any,
were rendered under the written agreement, but the court
* 1 Black, 506.

t This count was ruled out and abandoned at the trial.

Dec. 1872. -]

GOrDDARD v. FOSTER.

Statement of the case.

ruled that the services shown were outside of that agreement, and admitted the evidence.
To all these rulings the defendant excepted.
The court having charged that neither party was to suffer
in any way from the lapse of time, and thus disposing of the
plea of the statute of limitations, charged further among
other things1st. That the plaintiff could not recover under the first
connt of the declailation, nor any part of the profits of the
voyage.
2d. That the plaintiff was entitled to recover such sum as
upon the evidence the jury might regard to be the reasonable qnantlu meruit value of his services.
The court added:
"That includes a consideration by you of what his services
were, the entire scope of-the trade, and Mr. Foster's qualifications for those services at the time he rendered the services in
reference to this voyage, and the consideration of how much
these services were in bulk or in value before the 1st of January,
1851, and the consideration of the extent of these services after
that'date, and whether: they are to be diminished after by any
payment or allowance which ought to be charged against Mr.
Foster because of any compensation he may have received as a
member of the firm of Alsop & Co. The whole question is one
of fact for you to pass upon as men of judgment and intelligence,
and upon the evidence, applying your best faculties to it.
,'Ifyou arrive at any sum which you regard as proper for
the value of these services, then Mr. Foster is entitled to interest on that sum at the rate provided by law of New York, 7
per cent. per annum, from the time of the commencement of
this suit."
3d. That there was an agreement between the parties for
the rendering of some service distinct and independent from
that of Miay 7th, 1849; that that agreement as matter of
law, as one drawn from correspondence between the parties,
the jury were bound to find, and that there was an agreement between the parties for the performance, by Mr. Foster, of such services as he rendered in respect of the third
VOL. XVIL.

9

GODDARD

v.

FOSTER.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

voyage of the Harriet Erving, to be compensated for at such
rates as these services reasonably deserved.
To the second and third of the charges, as above given,
the defendant excepted; no exception being taken by either
party to the first. The jury found for the plaintiff $29,40.7,
and the defendant brought the'ease here for review.
The reader has doubtless seen that, throwing out the
question how far the meaning of the old contract had been
settled by the decision in the equity suit in the Circuit Court
for Massachusetts, and the question of interest, there were
really but two questions in the case.
I. What did the agreement as made by the correspotidence (Foster's letter of February 22d,.1850, and Goddard's
reply, being chief features iuit) mean ?
Did it mean, as Goddard, the defendant, insisted, that Foster would perform all the duties required by the old contract
on the terms and for the compensation specified in it, that is
to say, would perform them under that contract; a construction which, as this old contract gave nothing but for-" business conducted to completion," would give nothing for any
service performed before December 31st, 1850, as the voyage in question was not so conducted, to a conclusion, before that date; while for any service performed after that
date the argument was susceptible of being made that all
that the plaintiff did lhe did as a member of the firm of Alsop
& Co., and was paid by the commission given to that house.
OR, as Foster contended it was, was the meaning of the
agreement as if he, I oster, had written'In the interval, before the Airrival of any new agent to represent you, I will perform the same services for the new voyages, not covered by the contract of May 7th, 1849, that I have
rendered in the voyages covered by the contract and that you'r
new agent would perform were he here?"a construction which would naturally imply that the new
services were to be paid for at such reasonable rates as they
were fairly worth.
IL Was the question "whether there was an agreement

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD V. FOSTER.

131

Argument for Goddard.

between -the parties, shown by the correspondence, for the
rendering of the services in question, distinct and independent of the agreement of May 7th, 1850, a question of law to
be determined by th6 court, or a question for the jury ?"
Mr. D. D. Lord, for th~e plaintiff in error:
I. As to the services rendered prior to the 31st of December, 1850.
1. The letter of 22d February fixed the termination of the
old contract for the 31st December, not only without notice
that any services rendered in the interval were to be excluded from its terms, but with the express assurance that
the business (including, of course, all of it)would, during
this term, be managed "as usual."
Even though the plaintiff could not share in the profits of
this voyage of the Erving, he was, nevertheless, bound by
his contract to attend to all her business. The terms of his
contract expressly obliged him to attend to all business, and
excluded him from the profits of such as he did not complete. To imply an agreement to pay for such services rendered under the contract, because the contract itself provided no such compensation for them, is virtually to set that
contract aside. The contract was, when made, very advantageous for the plaintiff. He could easily protect himself
against any casual disadvantage caused by the late arrivals
of new adventures, by the fixing, as he had a right to do,
the time and terms of his withdrawal. But the chance of
any loss from this provision was compensated by the large
share allowed on completed business; it was more than
double his compensation under the agreement of 1843.
All Foster's services were rendered to the Erving without
authority, instruction, or notice from the defendant, except
such as was to be inferred from the contract itself; and be
must have understood that these services were rendered in
performanee of the agreement of 7th May, 1849; because,
in his former action on this contract, the bill in equity, he
made them the ground of a claim for a share in the profits
of the adventure.

GODDAIRD V.

POSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

If the notice of 22d February is susceptible of a construction limiting the plaintiff's duties to adventures pre-

viously commenced, it is at least equally capable of'a construction binding him to manage all the defendant's business
on the terms of the contract; and as the plaintiff might have
avoided the ambiguity, this latter construction should be
adopted.
2. The sale of so much of the Erving's outward cargo as
was made after 31st December, was not a service for which
the plaintiff can claim any compensation, beyond what was
due to the firm of which lie had become a member. Alsop
& Co. had accepted a consignment of the cargo, and this
acceptance entitled the defendant to tie full services of every
partner in the house. Ifthe plaintiff, after becoming a partner, had the exclusive charge of-these sales, it was only as
attending to that branch of business of the house; he is not
shown to have rendered any services in disposing of that
part of the cargo which was sold at Valparaiso, which ne
did not perform in reference to other consignments from
other parties. But, however special or valuable his services
may have been, they did not exceed his duties under his
newly assumed office or consignee, and were compensated
by the large commission paid to Alsop & Co., in which he
participated. To assume that lie was acting in a merely
personal capacity,-as agent of Goddard, would be to suppose
liat he was acting contrary to his letter of 22d February,
and contrary t6 his obligations to his new house.
I. The court took from the juiry the decision of the point
whether a contract different from the old one existed. The
matter depended on a correspondence, and on various facts
of whose effect the jury was the judge.
lWr. W. A. Evars, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Compensation for services rendered by the plaintiff, as
agent fnr the defendant in conducting a certain commercial
adventure at his request and for his benefit, is claimed by

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD V. FOSTbR.

.188

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the plaintiff in the present suit, which is an action of assumpsit for the value of the services rendered.
Prior services of like kind, in transactions of a similar
character, had been rendered by the plaintiff for the same
defendant, to which, though not embraced in this suit, and
to the litigation which grew out of the same, it becomes
necessary to advert in order to a clear.understanding of the
present controversy.
Those prior transactions had their origin in two written
agreements between the parties. By the first agreement,
dated June 24th, 1843, the plaintiff engaged, among other
things, to proceed at once to Valparaiso, and there to remain
for the term of five years, and to devote himself, for the
whole time, exclusively to the business of the other party,
such as the sale and purchase of cargoes, collecting freightmoneys, procuring return freights, eliciting orders for the
purchase and shipment of goods, effecting the sale of vessels, and collecting and forwarding all such information as
he could obtain respecting the trade. In consideration of
which the defendant engaged that he, the plaintiff, shall, at
the 6xpiration of five years, be entitled to one-tenth of the
net profits of his business in that trade, subject to certain
deductions for interest, cost, and expenses, as therein specified. Under that agreement the plaintiff proceeded to Valparaiso, where he continued to reside 'during the period
prescribed, and well and truly performed all things required
in the agreement. Having performed the agreement, the
plaintiff returned to Boston, where the defendant resided,
and on the 7th of May, 1849, they entered into the second
agreement, in which the plaintiff engaged to proceed at once
to the west coast of South America, and to devote his whole
time in those parts, as also in Mlexico and Galifornia, exclusively to the management of the~business of the defendant
in those countries, such as the sale-and purchase of merchandise, or any other property, collecting freight-moneys,
procuring freights and consignments of goods, elieiting orders for the purchase and shipment of property, investing
money, drawing and negotiating bills of exchange, and for-

GODDARD V. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

warding all such information as he could obtain respecting
the trade.

In consideration of which the defendant engaged

that he, the plaintiff, "shall, on his return, be entitled to
one'fourth of the net profits of his business in that trade,
that he (the plaintiff) shall have conducted to completion,,"
subject to certain deductions for interest, and all costs and
expenses incurred, both at home and abroad, in prosecuting
the business, including port charges and the expense of sailing and keeping in repair the vessels employed, the defendant having the right to purchase, charter, freight, and sell:
the vessels designed for the trade at his option, charging or.
crediting in the general account the profit or loss in' every
such transaction. What funds the plaintiff had, less twothousand dollars, he engaged to leave in the bands of the defendant, which he agreed not to abstract, nor any portion
of the profits, " until he shall see fit to withdraw from the
present arrangement, which he is at liberty to do at any
time by giving the defendant so much notice that any voyage he may have commenced, previous to the receipt of
such advice, shall receive the full benefit of all of the plaintiff's service' to its final accomplishment, and not otherwise."
Pursuant to'the agreement the plaintiff proceeded without
delay to the place designated, and conducted the described
business until the twenty-second of February of the next
year, when he gave the required notice to take effect at the
close of the year; and that on the first of January of the
succeeding year he should join the house of Alsop & Co.;
and he asked for an account. On the thirteenth of April of
the same year, the defendant acknowledged the receipt of
the letter written by the plaintiff, giving the required notice,
approving the decision the plaintiff had made to join that
house, and promised to comply with his request "as speedily
as possible."
Briefly described, the general mode of conducting the
business under each agreement was by adventures and shipments of goods, procured at Boston by the defendant anid
consigned to the plaintiff, by whom the merchandise was
sbl-c ad the proceeds invested in other merchandise which

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD

V. FOSTER.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

was consigned to the defendant, who sold the return cargoes,
and he kept the books and vouchers, showing the exact
profit or loss on each adventure.
Large profits were earned in the business, and at the'expiration of the period limited for the continuance of the
agreement, a large sum was due to the plaintiff in the hands
of the defendant, where it had been allowed to remain without his rendering any account. Repeated requests for an
account having failed to secure one, the present plaintiff, on
the first day of May, 1857, instituted a suit in equity in the
Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the cause
having proceeded to final hearing, and the court having entered a decretal order in fivor of the plaintiff, sent the cause
to a master to ascertain what the plaintiff was entitled to
recover. He made a report in which he allowed, among
other matters, the claim embraced in the present suit.
Ten exceptions were filed by the present defendant t6 that
report, but it will not be necessary to refer to any one of
them, except the tenth, which is substantially as follows: For
that the said master has allowed the complainant one-fourth
of the profits made by the respondent in th- use and employment of a vessel called the Harriet Erving and her
cargo during her third voyage, which was not sought to be
recovered by the complainant in his or:ginal or amended
bill, nor was the vessel or cargo or twe profits resulting
therefiom during the said voyage, embraced in the said
second agreement, nor in any contract or agreement made
by the respondent with the complainant, but were solely
and exclusively at the profit and loss of the respondent.
Two of the objections taken to the finding of the master in
respect to that voyage, as expressed in that exception, were
sustained by the Circuit Court: (1.) That the voyage was
not within the written agreement, as it was not commended
when the plaintiff gave the notice of his intention to withdraw from the arrangement nor when the defendant, on the
thirteenth of April following, acknowledged the receipt of
the notice and expressed his approval of the step taken by
the plaintiff. (2.) That the proofs were not sufficient to

GODDARD

V. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ot.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

warrant the conclusion that the parties ever agreed that this
voyage should'be settled and adjusted within the principles
of the wvritten agreement; and if they did so agree, that
there was no'proper allegation in the bill to support such a
decree.
Governed by those views the Circuit Court sustained the
exception to the report allowing the claim, and on appeal to
this court the decree of the Circuit Court sustaining the
same was affirmed.*
Payment of the claim being refused, the plaintiff; on the
fourteenth of August, 1862, instituted the present suit in the
Court of Common Pleas for the city and county of New
York, where he resides, to recover compensation for his
services rendered in respect to that voyage, and the defendai,, being a citizen of the State of Massachusetts, removed
the cause into the Circuit Court fbr the first-named district.
By the record it appears that the declaration contained a
count on a 'special agreement to pay one-fourth of the profits
earned by the ship on the voyage not adjusted in the prior
suit, but it will not be necessary to remark upon that count,
as the court ruled and instructed the jury that the plaintiff
could not recover under that count, nor for any part of the
profits of- the voyage. Apart from that the declaration also
contaiied four-other counts, of which the second and third
alleged a promise to pay a reasonable compensation for the
services rendered, and the fourth and fifth were the common
counts of indebitctus assumpsil, and quantum meruil. Service was made'and the defendant appeared and pleaded the
general issue, and gave notice that he would give evidence
of a formef recovery by the plaintiff against the defendant
in -the said suit in equity in the Circuit Court, founded upon
the written agreement, and that the services of the plaintiff;
if adiy, as claimed in the suit, were rendered under the same
agreement. H&[also'gave notice that he would give evidence
to prove that' the alleged causes of action did not accrue
within sik eLrs next beiorc.the commencement of the action.
*Foster

v. Goddard, I Clifford, 158, 183; Same Case, 1 Black, 506-514.

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD V. FOSTER.

Opinion of the court.

Testimony was introduced on both sides, and the jury, under
the instructions of the court, returned a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff for the sum of twenty-nine thousand four hundred and seven dollars and thirty-seven ceits, and the defendant excepted and removed the cause into this court.
Exceptions were taken by the defendant both to the rulingsof the court in admitting and rejecting evidence, and to the
refusal of the court to instruct the jury as requested by the
defendant, and to the instructions which the court gave to
the jury at the request of the plaintiff. Pursuant to the notice given by the defendant he ofibred in evidence the record
in the equity suit as a bar to the pending action, but the
court rejected the evidence and the defendant excepted. He
also offered the same record in evidence as a bar to all claim
in the action for services rendered for the defendant before
the close of the year in which lie gave the notice of his withdrawal from the second written agreement, but the court
rejected the evidence as inadmissible even for that purpose,
and the defendant excepted to the ruling. Evidence was
offered by the plaintiff of the value of his services, to which
the defendant objected, insisting that the services of the
plaintiff in respect to that voyage, if any, were rendered
under the written agreement, but the court ruled that the
services shown were outside of that agreement, and admitted the evidence, to which the defendant excepted.
Evidently these three rulings depend upon the same considerations, and they present one of the most important
questions involved in the bill of exceptions. Valuable services were rendered by the plaintiff in relation to that adventure. Conceding that, still it would follow, if, by the
true construction of the instrument, he was required to perIbrm the services under that agreement, that the record of
the former suit between the parties is a bar to the present
action. Both parties admit that proposition, but if the written agreement by its true construction did not require him
to render the services in question, then the record of the
former suit is no bar, because in that view of the case the

188

GODDARD

v. FOSTER.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

services rendered and for which compensation is sought in
the present action were not in issue in the prior litigation,
as the causes of action in the two suits are wholly distinct.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the defendant himself was of the opinion in the former suit that
the services were not rendered under the written agreement,
and that the Circuit Court came to the same conclusion,
which was in all things affirmed by this court. Much discussion of the question, therefore, would seem to be unnecessary, as the better opinion is that the question is conclusively settled by the decree in the last-named case. Suppose,
however, the question is an open one and is unaffected by
those decisions, still the court is of the opinion that the view
taken by the defendant in his exception to the master's report in the former suit is correct.
By the terms of the written agreement it is very clear that
the plaintiff was not required to render any service in any
voyage to be commenced after the receipt by the defeiudant
of the notice of the plaintiff withdrawing from the arrangemeat, as more fully appears from the mode prescribed of
giving the notice, and its effect, as stipdlated in the instrument. Such funds as the plaintiff had, .less $2000, he was
to leave in the hands of the defendant, and the stipulation
was that he should not abstract those funds, nor any portion
of his profits, until he should see fit to withdraw from the
arrangement, which he was at liberty to do at anytime by
giving the defcndant so much'notice that any voyage "he
may have commenced, previous to the receipt of such advice, shall receive the full benefit of afl the plaintiff's services
to its final accomplishment." Voyages commenced before
the notice of withdrawal was given were within the agreement, whether the vessels had arrived at their port of destination or not, but the plaintiff was not required to render
any service under tha+ agreement in relation to voyages projecled subsequently, as he was to have no interest in such
adventures, not being entitled to any part of the profits nor
compelled to sha6re in the loss. One-fourth of the profits ofthe business "conducted to completion" belonged to the

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD V. FOSTER.
Opinion of the court.

plaintiff, and in respect to all such voyages he was liable,
"to the full extent of his interest and. means, for all the
losses that may be made in the business, as also for all the
risks and casualties attendant thereon,"
Taking these two provisions of the agreement together, it
is quite clear that the former decisions in the equity suit
were correct, as they show that the plaintiff was allowed to
withdraw at any time, on giving the required notice, subject
to this reasonable and necessary limitation, that as he was
to be compensated by a share in the profits of the adventures the required notice should be such that he would remain long enough to complete the business in every voyhge
from which his compensation was to Come. Where profits
were made in a voyage, conducted to bomplet-ion, he was
entitled to one-fourth of the profits, but if the voyage resulted in a loss, he was liable to the full extent of his interest
and means for his proportion of the same, showing very
plainly that his agency under the written agreement was
limited to voyages commenced before the notice was given,
as no one, it is presumed, will contend that he was required
to render services without compensation, and to be liable
for a share of the loss in an adventure in which he had no
interest.
Opposed to this view is the suggestion that the plaintiff
agreed to devote his whole time to the business, but the court
is of the opinion that the word business, as used in that connection, must be limited to the period of the full employment
of the plaintiff before the notice of withdrawal was given, as
his undertaking subsequent to that notice was merely to
conduct the business, meaning the business of the voyages
previously commenced; to completion, or, as expressed in the
phrase describing the character of the notice to be given,
that he shall give "so much uotice that any voyage he, the
defendant, may have commenced previous to the receipt of
such advice, shal 'eceive the full benefit of all the plaintiff's
services to its final accomplishment."
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is plain, we
think, that the word business, as used in the first clause of

GODDARD V. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the agreement, was not intended to have any larger or different meaning from the other parts of the instrument which
describe, in detail, the nature of the services he was required
to perform. Sufficient has been remarked to show that the
exceptions under consideration must be overruled.
Instructions were also given by the court to the jury in
respect to the right of the plaintiff to recover upon the
other counts, to many of which the defendant also excepted.
Those deemed material to be notice(d in this connection, are
in substance and effect as follows: (1.) That the plaintiff
could not recover under the first count of the declaration,
nor any ,part of the profits of the voyage. (2.) That he
might recover reasonable compensation under the other
counts for such services as he rendered,.if he satisfied the
jury by the evidence in the case that he was employed by
the defendant to perform service in respect to that voyage,
by an agreement distinct and independent of the said written agreement, and that the jury, if they find for the plaintiff, should allow interest upon the amount at 'the rate of
seven per cent. from the commencement of the suit. (3.)
That the evidence of the agreement, consisting of correspondence between the parties, the question whether it
amounts to an agreement or not is a question of law, and
that the court instructed the jury that there was an7 agreement between the parties fbr the performance by the plaintiff of such services as lie rendered in respect to the voyage
in question, to be compensated for at such rates as those
services reasonably deserved.
Before examining the instructions, some brief reference
must be made to the evidence. In the letter giving notice
of his intention to withdraw from the arrangement, the
plaintiff stated that he would manage the business of the
defendant until the close of the same year, and it appears
that the defendant subsequently loaded and dispatched the
ship, whose third voyage is in question, consigning her to
the plaintiff. She left Boston on the tweuty-first of August,
arrived at Valparaiso on the eighth of December, and sailed
thence on the twenty-seventh of the same month for Go-

Dec. 1872.']

GODDARD V. FOSTER.
Opinion of the court.

quimbo and other points on the coast to complete her cargo,
and thence returned to Boston, her port of ultimate destination.
From the inception of the voyage, the defendant advised
the plaintiff by letter of his intentions in respect to her outward and return cargoes, and instructed him fully as to
what he, the plaintiff, should do on the coast in relation to
the adventure. He consigned the cargo'to the plaintiff, or,
in his absence, to Alsop & Co., as appears by the bill of
lading, and when the ship sailed he instructed the master to
proceed with all possible dispatch direct to Valparaiso, informing him that the plaintiff, as his agent, or, in his absence, the firm named in the bill of lading, would dispose
of the outward cargo, provide for the wants of the ship, and
direct his further movements.
Suffice it to say the plaintiff concluded the whole business
of the voyage in the same manner as he had conducted the
business of previous voyages,-that is, he prepared and forwarded to the defendant a memorandum for a cargo suitable
to be sent to that market, purchased and had in readiness.
for the ship her return cargo, and dispatched her from thecoast and directed the sale of her outward cargo, and was in
constant correspondence with the defendant in relation to
the adventure from its inception to its final consummation.
Error is assigned as to the second and third instructions.
1. Argument to show that the second i- correct is hardly
necessary, as it is quite clear that the plaintiff is entitled to
recover a compensation for his services, if he proved that the
services were rendered at the request of the defendant under
sonie agreement wholly distinct from the written a-reeme.,t embraced in the prior litigation. jIdebilatus assumpsit
is founded upon what the law terms an implied promise on
the part of the defendant to pay what in good conscience he
is bound to pay to the plaintiff, consequently where the case
shows that it is the duty of the defendant to pay, the law
imputes to him a promise to fulfil that obligation.*
* Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 478.

GODDARD

v.

FoSTER.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

2. Next error assigned is that the court erred in charging
the jury that the correspondence showed an agreement between the parties distinct from the prior written agreement
which was litigated in the equity suit, but the court is of the
opinion that the charge was correct, as it is well-settled law
that written instruments are always to be construed by the
court, except when they contain technical words, or terms
of art, or when the instrument is introduced in evidence
collaterally, and where its etct depends not merely on the
construction and meaning of the instrument, but upon extrinsic fhcts and circumstances, in which case the inference
to be drawn from it must be left to the jury.* Where the
questiol was whether there was a contract between two parties to be deduced froin correspondence, Parke, Baron, said:
"The law I take to be this: that it is the duty of the court
to construe all written instruments. If there are peculiar
expressions used in the instrument, which have, in particular
places or trades, a known meaning attached to them, it is
for the jury to say what is the meaning of those expressions,
but it is for the court to decide what is the meaning of the
contract." Contracts are frequently made by correspondence
between the parties, and in such a state of the evidence it
was held, in the case of Begg v. Forbes,t that the question
was exclusively for the court; Jervis, C. J., remarking,
"Surely the construction of written documents is for the
judge, whether many or few in number." Exceptional cases
arise where the contract rests partly in the correspondence
and partly inoral communications, in which it is held that
the question whether or not there is a contract is a question
for the jury.1 Courts of justice, however, are not denied
the same light and information the parties enjoyed when the
contract was executed, but they may acquaint themselves
with the persons and circumstances that are the subjects of
* Levy v. Gadsby, 3 Cranch, 186; Bliven v. N. E. Screw Co., 23 Howard,
432; Etting v The Bank, 11 Wheaton, 75; Barreda v. Silsbee, 2 Black, 168.
t 30 English Law and Equity, 508.
+ Bolckow v. Seymour, 17 0. B. (N. S.), 107; Barreda v. Silsbee, 2 Black,
168.

Dec. 1872.]

GODDARD V.

FOSTER.

Opinion of the court.

the statements in the written agreement, and are entitled to
place themselves in the same situation as the parties who
made the contract, so as to view the circumstances as they
viewed them, and so to judge of the meaning of the words
and of the correct application of the language to the things
described.*
Proof of service at the request of the defendant was full
and uncontradicted, and the Circuit Court instructed the
jury that the plaintiff.was "entitled to recover in the case
such sum as the reasonable quantum meruil value of his services, upon the evidence, you may regard to be proper;"
adding that the instruction "includes a consideration by
you of what his services were, the entire scope of the
trade, and his qualifications for those services at the time he
rendered the same, in reference" to that voyage, and the
consideration of how much those services were in bulk or in
value before the close of the yeaf, and the consideration of
his services after that date, and whether they are to be
diminished after by any payment or allowance which ought
to be charged against the plaintiff on account of any compensation he may have received as a member of the firm to
which he belonged; and stating, in conclusion, to the effect,
that the court left the whole case to the jury as. a question
of fact'for their determination.
Most of the other exceptions to the charge of the court
are shown to be without merit, by that instruction, which
submitted the whole evidence to the jury.
Beyond all question the plaintiff was entitled to interest
from the commencement of th suit, and it is not perceived
that there is any error in the rule prescribed as to the rate,
as it is the rule of the lex fori, especially as no rate is fixed
in the contract and no place designated for its performance.
Separate examination of the numerous other-exceptions
as to the ruling of the cou't, in admitting and rejecting evidence, will not be attempted, as none of them are of any
* Shore v. Wilson, 9 Clarke & Finelly, 569; Addison on Contracts, 846;
Blossom v. Griffin, 13 New York, 569; O'Neill v.James, 43 Id. 84-92.

WILLIAMS V. BAKER.

[Sup. at.

General statement of the case.

general importance.

Suffice it to say they have all been

examined and the court is of the opinion that they must
severally be overruled, and that there is no error iu the
record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

1h. Justice STRONG dissented from this judgment and
from the preceding opinion respecting the construction and
legal effect of the written agreement between the parties.
Mr. Justice HUNT also dissented.

WILLIAMS V. BAKER.
CEDAR, RAPIDS RAILROAD

Co.

r. DES MOInES NAVIQATION

C0.

1. The history given of the le.islatibn of the land grants for the improvement of the Des M1oines River, and of the grants for railroad purposes,
which have been supposed to conflict.
2. This court on full consideration affirms the decision in the cases of lrolcoti
Moines Company (5 Wallace, 681), and Reily v. lVells (dev. The .le.s
clared by this court to have nothing to distinguish it from that ca-P, and
therefore not reported), namely, "that the title to those lands never
passed to the railroad company by the grant under which it claimed,
because, by the express terms of the proviso, they were reserved from the
grant; and that by the Joint Roeohition of Congress of 181. and the
act of 1862, on the same subject, the State of Iowa did receive the title
for the use of those to whom she had sold them as part of the original
Des loines River grant."
3. The decision of Jolcott v. TheDe Moines Company, as an authoritative
exposition of the law of this case, is not weakened by the supposed collusion of the parties to that suit, it being shown by the record that all the
questions were fully argued by other parties who iptervened, and that
the court maturely and deliberately considered the question which they
were now asked to econsider. Nor does this court look with approval
upon a labored effort to prove by testimony that its judgment was obtained by collusion, when the judgment is cited in another case only to
establish principles of law,-and not by way of evidence or estoppel.

[Though th t,*o cases here reported were decided in order
of time prior to that of the .U.mestead'Company r- Valley

