Oct. 1873.]

"0"NITED STATES

v).

HENRY.

405

Statement of the case.

therefore, the question certified by the judges below must
be
ANSWERED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.

UNITED STATES VL.PENRY.
1. An officer who shows that he received a commission from the proper source,
and who serves and is recognized as such officer by his superiors until
his regiment is mustered out, and who presented himself at the proper
time and place to be mustered in, and was refused, makes out a prim
facie case for full pay under the joint resolution of Congress of July
26th, 1866, "for the relief of certain officers of the army."
2. It does not rebut this prinafacie case to prove that the officer who refused to muster him in alleged that he was not entitled to guch muster,
because the company to which he was assigned as lieutenant was below
the minimum in numbers.
3. Such a statement is not a finding of the fact by the Court of Claims that
the company was reduced below the minimum.
4. N~or does the fact, if found, bring the case within section twentieth of the
act of March 3d, 1863, forbidding the appointment of officers to a regiment when that regiment has been reduced below the minimum number
allowed for regiments.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
A joint resolution of Congress, approved July 26th, 1866,*
resolves:
"That in every case in which a commissioned officer actually
entered on duty as such commissioned officer, but, by reason of
being killed in battle, capture by the enemy, or other cause beyond his
control, and without fault or neglect of his own, was not mustered within a period of not less than thirty days, the pay department shall allow to such officer full pay and emoluments of
his rank from the date on which such officer actually entered on
such duty as aforesaid, deducting from the amount paid in accordance with this resolution all pay actually received by such
officer for such period."
APPEAL

An act of Congress of prior date, March 3d, 1863,t had
enacted i its twentieth section,* 14 Star. at Large, 368.

t- 12 Id. 734.

'UNITED STATES v. HENRY.

- [Sup. Ot.

Argument for the government.

"That wherever a regiment is reduced below the minimum
number required by law, no officers shall be appointed in such
regiment beyond those necessary for the command of such reduced number.'
In this state of statutory law, Anthony Henry, who had
been duly commissioned as second lieutenant in the second
regiment of Ohio volunteer inihutry by the governor of that
State-which commission he accepted on the 15th day of
August, 1863-and who actually served and performed the
duties of that office from that day until October 10th, 1864
(when he was mustered out of service with his regiment),
and was during all that time recognized as such officer by
his superior officers, and commanded the company in several
battles, but had been paid only the amount due to the rank
and service of first sergeant of infantry-filed a claim in the
court below against the United States for $1118, the pay and
allowance due to a second lieutenant.
The Court of Claims found as facts,
"That upon receipt of his commission from the governor of
Ohio, the claimant, presented himself for muster, as second
lieutenant, to the proper mustering officer of his division, but
was refused such muster, the mustering officer alleging that Company D, to which the claimant was assigned,, was reduced below
the minimum number, and that, therefore, he was not entitled
to be mustered; that the claimant repeatedly offered himself for
muster to the proper officer during the time aforesaid, but without success; and that he was always ready and anxious to be so
mustered, and that his failure to be so mustered arose from a
cause beyond his control, and without fault or neglect of his
own."
The Court of Claims found in favor of the claimant, and
decreed to him a second lieutenant's pay. The United States
appealed.
Mr. C. -f. Hill, for the United States:
As the company to which the claimant belonged was reduced below the minimum number, the act of March 3d,
1863, passed prior to the joint resolution, forbade his being

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. HENRY.

407'

Opinion of the court.

mustered. And it is not to be supposed that the joint resolution was meant to be applied to a case where the party,
could not be mustered in without a violation of law.
In addition to this, applying the ordinary rule of interpretation, that general words are to be construed as ejusdem
generis, it would seem to be clear that the other causes referred to in the resolution are causes similar in nature to
those particularly mentioned, namely, by reason of being
killed in battle, or capture by the enemy.
lessrs. N. P. Cldpman and A. A. Hosmer, contra:
The reason why Henry was refhsed pay for his services
as lieutenant, was that he had never been mustered into the
service as a lieutenant. But he offered himself repeatedly
for such muster, and produced his commission. He came,
therefore, within the provisions of the joint resolution, since
he entered on the duties of the office and performed the
same, and his failure to be mustered in was "without fault
or neglect of his own," and was from a cause "beyond his
control."
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no question but that the claimant's case comes
within the strict letter of the joint resolution.
The counsel for the United States, however, argues that
the joint resolution can only have application to the case of
an officer duly commissioned and entitled by law to be mustered
into service as such officer, and that the finding of the court
shows that the claimant.was not entitled to be mustered in
when he accepted. his commission and offered himself for
that purpose.
This'would raise a very interesting question, and one
which might not be easy of decision, if the record in this
case fairly presented it. There is undoubtedly strong reason
why Congress should have provided full pay for an officer
who, holding a commission from the proper source, was
given command and acti'ualy served as such officer, and had
his rank recognized by all "is superiors, though in point of

UN1ITED STATES V.

HENRY.

[Sup. at.

Opinionof the court.

fact not mustered in as such or entitled to be; and it is certain he would not be entitled to such pay without the enabling
act. But we do not find in the record the evidence, or any
finding of the court that the claimant was not entitled to be
mustered into the, service. The finding of the Court of
Claims on that subject is as follows:
"Upon receipt of the commission from the governor of
Ohio the claimant presented himself .for muster, as second
lieutenant, to the proper mustering officer of his division,
but was refused such muster, the mustering officer alleging
that Company D, to which the claimant was assigned, was
reduced below the minimum number, and that, therefore,
he was not entitled to be mustered."
Counsel for the government, assuming that what the
mustering officer alleged is to be treated here as an established fact, further assumes that that fact brings his case
within the language of sectiou twenty of the act of March
3d, 1863, to wit: "That whenever a regiment is reduced below the minimum number allowed by law, no officers shall
be appointed in such regiment beyond those necessary for
the command of such reduced number."
But the argument is open to more than one fatal objection.
1. The claimant having shown that he was regularly commissioned and served as a lieutenant, anc was, without fhult
of his, refused a muster, so that he comes within the literal
terms of the joint resolution; if any fact is relied ow-to defeat his claim, it should be specifically found and stated by
the Court of Claims. This is not done by a finding of that
court that the mustering officer alleged that Company D was
reduced below the minimum number. If the fact that the
company was below the minimum was important in"the case,
it should have been found as a fact by the court, and not
stated merely as the alleged reason of the officer for refusing
to muster in the claimant. The muster-roll of the company
was within the control of the government, and would have
settled the fact, one way or the other, beyond dispute.
2. The act relied on by counsel forbids the appointment
of officers in a regiment, when .it is reduced below the mini-

Oct. 1873.]

REED v. GARDNER.

Statement of the case.

mum number allowed by law, beyond those necessary for
the command of such reduced number.
It is quite consistent with a reduction of Company D below the minimum for a company, that the regiment was not
below the minimum for a regiment. Indeed, it is unreasonable to suppose that because a single company is reduced
below the minimum, that the regiment is for that reason to
be so treated, and to have no more officers appointed in it
until that company is filled up.
There is no finding, nor any allegation, in the present
case, that the regiment was below the miuimuin, and, therefore, this act does not apply. Nor are we pointed by counsel to any law or reg-ulation of the service whi ch fixes what
is the minimum of a regiment of volunteer infantry. Nor
does the Court of Claims find any facts from which, if we
had such a law or regulation before us, we could decide
whether this regiment, or, indeed, this company, was in fact
below the mininium as established by law at the time the
claimant offered himself for muster.
Under these circumstances, the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be
AFFIRMED.

REED V. GARDNER.
In passing upon the questions presented in a bill of exceptions this court will
not look beyond the bill itself. The pleadings and the statements of the
bill, the verdict and the judgment are the only matters that are properly
before it. Depositions, exhibits, or certificates not contained in the bill,
cannot be considered by the court. The court declares its intention to
adhere to what is above presented as its practice; and declares further
that the case of Flandersv. Tweed (9 Wallace, 425), was exceptional.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Georgia.
Gardner sued Reed in the court below. His declaration
alleged that one Wilson had delivered to the defendant cotton, upon an agreement that he, the defendant, would sell

