SOHN V. WATERSON.

[Sup. at.

Statement of the case.

tained by the refusal of the government to receive and pay
for the arms.
What are those damages? It is not found that the weapons
had at any time a market value or current selling price. It
is not found what they were worth (r could have been sold
for at the time they were "offered f6r delivery and refused.
They wr6 ndt then oi at any time sold or offered for sale
by the, claimant. The only criterion of damage furnished is
the finding of the court, that the six thousand carbines are
now (at the time of the judgment of the court) in the possession of the company, and of the value of $3 each.
As the case stands, we REVERSE the judgment of fhe Court
of Oblainis, and rehand the case, with directions to render a
judgment for the claimant for such damages as, they may
ascertain that the claimant has sustained by reason of the
refusal of the United States to accept and pay for the six
thousand carbines.

SOnN v. WATERSON.
In construing a statute of limitations, it must, so far. as'it affects rights of
action in kxistenca when: the statute is passed, be held, in the absence
of contrary.provision, to begin when the cause of action is first subjected to its operation,
Hence, when a right of actifn accrued in 1851 and a statute of limitations
'passed in 1859 barred all actions of its kind riot " commenced within'
two years next after the cadse or right of such action shall have accrued," held, that the cause of action began to run from the date of the,
statute, and tlbat-suit might have been brought any time within two
years from that date, and, accordingly, that the statute had not summarily cut off existimig right,; thus making itself unconstitutional.

BRRon to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas;
the case, as appeared by the pleadings, being thus:
Iln 854, one Sohn, a eiti.en 6f Ohio, obtained a judgment
in one of the courts'of the Sftte named against a certain

Oct. 1873.]

SOHN V. "WATERSOX'.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Waterson. Soon after this Waterson went to Kansas, and
from 1854 became and remained a citizen of that State.
On the 10th of February, 1859, four years or more after
the judgment in Ohio was obtained, the legislature of Kansas passed a statute which enacted: -i
"That all actians fbunded on any promissory note, bill of exchange, writing obligatory, bond, contract, judgment, decree, or
other legal liability, made, executed, rendered, &c., beyond the
limits of this Territory, shall be commenced within two years
next after the cause or right of such action shall have accrued,
and not after."
This statute being on the statute-book, and Waterson
being now, as-already mentioned, a citizen of Kansas, Sohn,
still a citizen of Ohio, in 1870 sued him in the court below
to recover the amount of the judgment which he had obtained against him in Ohio, A.D. 1854.
The defendant pleaded the above-quoted statute of limitations of the State of Kansas, namely, that the action did not
accrue within two years next before the cornmencement of
the srit. The plaintiff demurred to this plea, and upon this
demurrer judgment was rendered for the defendant.
The court below said:
"As the defendant was a resident of this State when the act
of February 10th, 1859, took effect, it is our opinion that the
two years' limitation therein provided began to run in favor of
the defendant as against the present cause of action from that
period, and that this action might have been brought at any
time within two years after that act went into-operation. Not,
having been brought within that period it was barred."
Mr. .T. B. Sanborn, for the plaintiff in error:
We must interpret the Kansas statute according to what
its words say, and infer, as a purpose, what the legislature
of the State has in plain terms indicated to be the intent.
Thus interpreted the statute attempts to bar summarily an
existing right of action. This is within the constitutional
inhibition, that "no State shall pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts.'" A reasonable opportunity nust be

SOHN V. WATERSON.[

[Sup. t

Opinion pf the court.

afforded to parties to try all rights of action existing when
such a law passed.*
The court below sought to give a semi-pr.ospective operation to the act; but if the act is to be interpreted prospectivdly at all, it must be interpreted so wholly; and this
would have the effect of' restricting its application to actions
accruing after its passage. Such assuredly was not the purpose of the legislature., if we may judge by what it says.
The act was meant to operate generally; and so operating,
it cannot, as we have said, be sustained as to rights of action
existing when it was passed.
Mr. Thomas Ewing, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff contends that the statute of Kansas cannot*
apply to actions which accrued more than two years befo:e
its passage, because it would cut aem off and defeat them
altogether, and would thus impair the obligathu of contracts.
A literal interpretation, of the statute would have this
effect. But it is evident that the legislature could not have
had any such intention. The court below held, that as the
defendant was a resident of Kansas when the act took effect,
the time of limitation began to run in his favor as against
the present cause of action from that period; and that the
action might have been brought at any time within two
years afterwards; and not having been brought within that
period it was barred. In other words, the-court held that
the act was prospective in its operation, and affected .ex-isting causes of action only from the time of its passage.
This seems to us a reasonable construction and one that prevents the legislative intent from being frustrated. " Words
in a statute," says Justice Paterson, "ought not to have a
retrospective operation, unless. they are so clear, strong, and
imperative that no other meaning can be annexed to them,
or unless the intention of the legislature cannot be otherwise
* Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 2d edition, p. 866.

Oct. 1873.]

SOHN V. WATERSON.

Opinion of the court.

satisfied."* And this rule is repeated by this court in Harvey v. Tyler,t where it is said: "It is a rule of construction
that all statutes are to be considered prospective, unless the
language i§ express to the contrary, or there is a necessary
implication to that effect."
The plaintiff contends that the application of this rule to
the statute in question would have the effect of. restricting
its application to actions accruing after the passage of the
act. But this is not a necessary conclusion.
A statute of limitations may undoubtedly have effect upon
actions which have already accrued as well as upon actions
which accrue after its passage. Whether it does so or not
will depend upon the language of the act, and the apparent
intent of the legislature to be gathered therefrom. When a
statute declares generally that no action, or no action of a
certain class shall be brought, except wvithin a certain limited
time after it shall have accrued, the language of the statute
would make it apply to past actions as well as to those arising in the future. But if an action accrued more than the
limited.time before the statute was passed a literal interpretation of the statute would have the effect of absolutely barring such action at once. It will be presumed that such was
not the intent of the legislature. Such an intent would be
unconstitutional. To avoid such a result, and to give the
statute a construction that will enable it to stand, courts
hav6 given it a prospective operation. In doing this, three

different modes have been adopted by different courts. One
is to make the statute apply only to causes of action arising
after its passage. But as this construction leaves all actions
existing at the passage of the act, without any limitation at
all (which, it is presumed, could not have been intended),
another rule adopted is, to construe the statute as applying
to such existing actions only as have already run out a portion of the statutory time, but which still have a reasonable
time left for prosecution before the statutory time expireswhich reasonable time is to be estimated by the court-leav* United States v. Heth, 3 Cranch, 413.

t 2 Wallace, 347.

S0-A

v.- WATIRSON.S

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

ing all other actions accruing prior to the statute unaffected
by'it. The latter rule does not seem to be founded on any
better principle than the former. It still leaves a .large class
of actions entirely unprovided with any limitation whatever,
or, as to.them, is uncon stitutional, and is a more arbitrary
rule than the first. A third construction is that which was
adopted by the court below in this case, and which we regard
as much more sound than either of the others. It was substantially adopted by this court 'in the cases of Ross v. Du-val* and Lewis v. Lewis.t In those cases certain statutes of
limitation--one in Virginia and the other in Illinois-had
originally excepted from their operation non-residents of the
State, but this exception had been afterwards repealed; and
this court held that the non-resident parties had the full
statutory time to bring their actions after the repealing acts
were passed, although such actions may have accrued at an
earlier period. "I The question is," says C.J. Taney (speaking in the latter of the cases just cited), "from what timeis
this limitation to be calculated ? Upon principle, it would
seem to be clear, that it must commence when the cause of
action is first subjected to the operation of the statute, unless
the legislature has otherwise provided." It is true, that in
the subsequent case of Murray v. Gibson,$ this court followed
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Mississippi in its construction of a statute of that State, and held that it applied
only to actions accruing after the statute was passed. But
that decision was made in express deference to those of the
State court, which were regarded as authoritative. In the
present case we are not bound byr any decisive construction
of the State court on this point.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* 13 :Peters, 62.

t- 7 Howard, 778.

1 15 Id. 421.

