BARNES

v. THE RAILROADS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE, Mr. Justice STRONG, and Mr.
Justice BRADLEY, dissented.
Mr. Justice HUNT did not hear the argument, and took
no part in the judgment.

BARNES V. THE RAILROADS.
The one hundred and sixteenth section of the Internal Revenue Act of June
30th, 1864, amended by the act of March 2d, 1867, laid a tax of 5 per
cent. on in'comes derived from any source whatever. The one hundred
and nineteenth section enacted "1that tfie taxes on incomes herein imposed shall be levied on the 1st day of March, and be due and payable
on or before the 30th day of April in each year until and including the
year 1870, and no longer."
The one hundred and twenty-second section, as subsequently amended,
imposed a tax of 5 per cent. on all interest payable and dividends declgred by any railroad or canal company, &c., whenever payable; to be
paid by the company and deducted from the amount payable to the bond
or stockholder.
Held (by a court nearly equally divided, and the majority who agreed in
the judgment not agreeing in the grounds of it), that interest or dividends which accrued prior to the 1st of January, 1870, were taxable
under the act, though payable or declared on or after the date named.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania; the case being thus :
The one hundred and sixteenth section of the act of June
80th, 1864, as amended by the thirteenth section of the act
of March 2d, 1867,* enacts:
"SECTION 116. That there shall be levied, collected, and paid
annually upon the gains, profits, and income of every person residing in the United States, or of any citizen of the United
States residing abroad, whether derived from any kind of property, rents, interest, dividends, or salaries, or from any profession, trade, employment; or vocation, carried on in the United
States or elsewhere, or from any other source whatever, a tax of 5
* 18 Stat. at Large, 281; 14 Id. 477.

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES V. THE RAILROADS.

Statempent of the case.
per centum on the amount so derived over $1000, and a like tax
shall be levied, collected, .and paid annually upon the gains,
profits, and income of every business, trade, or profession carried on in the United States by persons residing without the
United States, and not citizens thereof. And the tax herein
provided for shall be assessed, collected, and paid upon the gains,
profits, and income for the year ending the 31st day of December next preceding the time for levying, collecting, and paying
said tax."
The one hundred and seventeenth section of the same act,
as amended in the same way, required that there should
be included, inter alia, in the estimate of gains, profits, and
income, which the act made it obligatory on the taxpayer
to return, the share of any person of the gains and profits
of all companies, whether incorporated or partnership, who
would be entitled to the same if divided, whether divided or
otherwise,
"Except the amount of income received from institutions or
corporations whose officers, as required by law, withhold a percentum of the dividends made by such institutions, and pay the
same to the officer authorized to receive the same, and except
that portion of the salary or pay received for services in the
civil, military, or naval, or other service of the United States,
including senators, representatives, and delegates in Congress,
from which the tax has been deducted."
The one hundred and eighteenth section related to the
manner of the party's making and the assessor's obtaining
returns of that portion of the taxpayer's income which was
to be paid by such taxpayer directly.
The one hundred and nineteenth section, as amended by
the already-mentioned section of the act of March 2d, 1867,*
enacts:
"SEcTIoN 119. That the taxes on incomes herein imposed
shall be levied on the 1st day of March, and be due and payable
on or before the 30th day of April in each year, until and including
the year 1870, and no longer."
* 13 Stat. at Large, 283; 14 Id. 480.

BARNES

v. THE RAILROADS.

I[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

The one hundred and twenty-second section of the same
act as amended by the ninth section of the act of July 13th,
1866,* enacts:
"SECTION 122. That any railroad,canal, turnpike, canal navi-

gation, or slack-water company, indebted for any money for
whicli bonds or other evidence of indebtedness have been issued,
payable in one or more years after date, upon which interest is
stipulated to be paid, or coupons representing the interest, or
any such company that may have declared any dividend in
scrip or money, due or payable to its stockholders, including
non-residents, whether citizens or aliens, as part of the earnings,
profits, income, or gains of such company, and all profits of such
company carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction, shall be subject to and pay a tax of 5 per centum on the
amount of all such interest, or coupons, dividends, or profits,
whenever and wherever the same shall be payable, and to whatever party or person the same may be payable, including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens.
"And said companies are hereby autijorized to deduct and withhold from all payments on account of any interest, or coupons, and
dividends, due and payable-as aforesaid, the tax of 5 per centum;
and the payment of the amount of said tax so deducted from
the -interest, or coupons, or dividends, and certified by the president or treasurer of said company, shall discharge said company
from that amount of the dividend, or interest, or coupon, on
the bonds or oher evidences of their indebtedness-sQ held by
any person or party whatever, except where said companies
may- have contracted otherwise."
This is the material part of the section; another paragraph, however, being referred to in one of the opinions
given- further on in the case, as bearing on the question
hereafter stated as in controversy, the paragraph, which runs
thus, is added:
"And a list or'return shall be made and rendered to the asseisY-or 'assistant assessor, on or befbre the 10th day of the
m6iith following that' in which said interest, coupons, or dividends become due and payable,'and as often as every six
* 18 Stat, at Large, 284; 14 Id. 138.

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES

V. THE RAILROADS.

Statement of the case.

months; and said list or return shall contain a true and faithful
account of the amount of tax, and there shall be annexed thereto
a declaration of the president or treasurer of the company,
under oath or affirmation, in form and manner as may be'prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, that the same
contains a'true and faithful account of said tax. And for any
default in making or rendering such list or return, with the
declaration annexed, or of the payment of the tax as aforesaid,
the company making such default shall forfeit as a penalty the
sum of 61000; and in case of any default in making or rendering said list or return, or of the payment of the tax or any part
thereof, as aforesaid, the assessment and collection of the tax
and penalty shall be made according to the provisions of the
law in other cases of neglect or refusal."
The one hundred and twenty-third section of the.same ht,
as amended by the thirteenth section of the act of March,
1867, enacted:
"SECTION 123. That there shall be levied, collected, and paid on

all salaries of officers, or payments for services to persons in the
civil, military, naval, or other employment or service of the
United States, including senators, representatives, and delegates
in Congress, when exceeding the i'ate of $1000 per annum, a taxf
of 5 per centum on the excess above the said $1000; and it shall
be the duty of all paymasters-and all disbursing officers under
the government of the United States, or persons in the employ
thereof, when making any payment to any officers or persons
as aforesaid, whose compensation is determined by a fixed salary,
or upon settling- or adjusting the accounts of such officers or
persons, to deduct and withhold the aforesaid tax of 5 per centum;
and the pay-roll, receipts, or account of officers or persons paying such tax as afbresaid, shall be made to exhibit the fact of
such payment."
In this state of statutory enactment, the Philadelphia afid
Reading Railroad Company (a-corporation of Pelnsylvania)
on the.2_2d of December, 1869, declared a dividend, payable
Januaqthe 171h, 1870, on their stock, as part of the profits
made between the 1st of July and 1st of December, 1869;
the dividend being made in pursuance of a power in the
company's charter which authorized its managers to declare

BARNES V.

THE RAILROADS.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

at least twice in each year such dividend of the company's
profits as they deemed advisable; the same to be payable at
the expiration of ten days.
So too the Harrisburg, Portsmouth, and Mount Joy and
Lancaster Railroad Company, having a large capital stock,
and having issued bonds for money, with interest payable
semi-annually on the 1st of January and July, declared on
the 10th of January, 1870, A dividend on their stock as part
of their income and gain made between the 1st of July,
1869, and the 1st of January following. Apart from this
dividend a semi-annual instalment on the bonds fell due on
the 1st of January, 1870.
In both the cases, and in the cases of several other railroad companies* which bad made dividends, or were about
to pay interest, the assessor of the district assessed a tax of
5 per cent. on this dividend. The companies refused to pay,
and the collector, one Barnes, distrained. Thereupoi the
companies sued Barnes in trespass,
The question in the cases was whether the duration of the
tax upon "interest tr coupons, dividends or profits" of railroad, canal, and other companies, imposed by the 122d section, quoted above, was subject to the limitation fixed by
the 119th section, taken in connection with the 116th section. In other words, whether a tax upon the profits, interest, or dividends mentioned in the said 122d section was
authorized to be assessed and collected, where such profits
were set apart or where such interest or dividends became
due and payable after the 81st of December, 1869, and especially as in the second of the above-mentioned cases, where
the dividend was declared after that (late. The government
contended that the limitation referred to was not applicable
to the tax described in the 122d section, and that the assessment and collection thereof, upon interest, dividends, &c.,
* The Lehigh Valley Railroad Company; The Lake Superior. and Missis-

sippi Railroad Ooinpany; The Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad Company. 'The last-named company's dividend was- declared January 19th, 1870,
and was payable on the lUt of February.

Dec. 1872.].

BARNES v. THE RAILROADS.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

due and payable subsequent to that , date, were authorized;
a position denied by the railroad companies and their stockholders and creditors.
The court below was of opinion that the tax was not authorized, and gave judgment accordingly. From that judgment the collector brought the cases here.
In this court the cases were twice argued. On the first
argument, the court being then composed of eight judges,
there was an equally divided bench. After the abcession of
Mr. Justice Hunt a new argnment was ordered, and it was
accordingly reargued by Mr. G. 1. Williams, Attorney- General,
and Mr. . 1. Phillips, Solicitor-Generdl, for the collector; and
by Messrs. J-. G. Gowen, Chapman Biddle, and Theodore Cuyler,
for.diflerent railroadcompanies interested.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, now, March 3d, 1873, delivered
the judgment of the court in all the cases, dividing them, as
they had been, argued, into two classes; the first class being
where the dividend was declared prior to the 1st of January,
1870, and made payable afterwards; the second where it
had been both declared and made payable afterwards.
I. IN THE FIRST CLASS.

]power to lay and collect taxes for Federal purposes, being
vested exclusively in Congress, it becomes necessary, whenever the validity of such a tax is drawn in question, to examine the act imposing the tax, as the question in every
case must necessarily depend upon its true construction,
unless it appears that the tax is not apportioned as required,
or not uniform, or the object taxed is one not taxable for
such a purpose.
Railroad companies indebted for any money for which
bonds or other evidences of indebtedness have been issued,
payable in one or more years after date, subject to interest
or with coupons representing interest, are by the 122d section of the act of the 13th of July, 1866, made liable to the
infernal revenue tax imposed by that section.
Provisions upon the subject differing essentially from

BARNES V. THE RAILROADS.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case iii the opinion.

those contained in that section had previously been enacted;
but the Congress, on that day, amended the corresponding
section in the prior law by striking out all after the enacting
clause, and inserting in lieu thereof the section under consideration, which also provides that "any such company
that may have declared any dividend in scrip or money, due
or payable to its stockholders, including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens, as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of such company, and all profits of such
company, carried to the account of any fund, or used for
construction, shall be subject to, and pay a tax of 5 per centurn on the amount of all such interest or coupons, dividends
or profits, whenever and wherever the same shall be payable,
and to whatsoever party or person the same may be payable,
including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens."*
By the act incorporating the railroad company it was provided that the dividends of so much of the profits of the
company as it should appear advisable to the managers
should be declared at least twice in every year, payable to
the stockholders subsequent to the expiration of ten days
from the time it was so declared.
Apart from that it also appears that the railroad company,
on the 22d of December, 1869, declared a dividend in money
amou ating in the whole to the sum of $1,527,531.59 on their
c.pital stock, as part bf their earnings, profits, incomes, and
gains made, and which accrued between the 1st ot July of
that year and the 1st of Decemher of the same year. -None
of these matters are controverted, but the dividend, though
it accrued during the period described, and was declared at
the date specified, was made payable to the stockholders on
the 17th of January following, as appears by the record.
Due return of the said dividend, as required by law, was
made by.the railroad company to the assessor of the first
collection district, and the proper revenue authorities assessed a tax of 5 per centum uponthe said dividend, amountig to the sum of $76,376.58, which the railroad company
wa5 required to pay within the period prescribed by law.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 189.

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES

V. THE RAILROADS.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

Payment of the tax having been refused, after due notice
given and demand made, the collector, and the other two
defendants as his deputies, distrained the goods and chattels
mentioned in the declaration to secure and enforce the payment of the tax, penalty, and interest, as directed in the
warrant from the assessor. Distraint was made in due form,
but the corporation plaintiffs, denying the legality of the tax,
brought an action of trespass against the collector and his
deputies in the State court to test that question, and the
record shows that the suit, on the petition of the defendants,
was regularly removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for trial. Both parties appeared in the Circuit Court,
and the plaintiffs having filed their declaration the deaendants pleaded the general issue, and also a special plea, in
bar of the action, setting up substantially the same matters
as those set forth in the preceding statement. Issue was
joined upon the first plea, but the plaintiffs deuiurred to
the second, insisting that the matters pleaded do not constitute any defence to the action which is the principal question
in the case. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs in
the Circuit Court, and the defendants sued out a writ of
error and removed the cause into this court.
Questions of importance to the parties, it may be conceded, are presented in the record for the decision of the
court, but it must be admitted that they are all mere questions as to the construction of the 'act imposing the tax, as
it is not pretended that the object taxed is one not taxable
for Federal purposes, nor that the regulations prescribed for.
the assessment and collection of the tax are subject to any
constitutional objections. Stripped of every difficulty of
that kind, as the case confessedly is, the great central question which arises is, what did the, lawmakers mean when
they enacted that "a n y such company that may have declared any dividend in scrip or money, due or payable to its
stockholders, 'including non-residents, whether citizens or
aliens, as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of
such company, and all profits of such company carried to
the account of any fund, or used for construction, shall be

BARNES v. THE RAILROADS.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford, &c.

subject to and pay a tax of 5 per centum on the amount of
all such interest or coupons, dividends or profits, whenever
and wherever the same shall be payable ?"
Congress, it is insisted by the United States, intended to
tax that accrued fund in the hands of the railroad company,
in whatever form it might be; whether it existed as accumulated interest or in coupons representing interest, or in a
dividend declared, or in a special fund of any kind, and
without respect to the time of payment or the person or per- /
sons to whom it was ultimately payable. Every elemet of
that proposition is denied by the plaintifl, and as a means
of refuting it they have entered into an extended -andcritical
review of all the principal features of the prior acts providing for the collection of internal revenue duties.
Where a section or clause of a statute is ambiguous,
much aid, it is admitted, may be derived in ascertaining its
meaning by comparing thie section or clause in question with
prior statutes in pari materid, but it cannot be admitted that
such a resort is a proper one where the language employed
by the legislature is plain and free of all uncertainty, as the
true rule in such a case is to hold that the statute speaks its
own construction.
Much criticism is bestowed upon the corresponding provisions in the prior acts in order to show that Congress never
intended to tax the railroad company at all, and that the tax,
in view of the circumstances, cannot be sustained against
the shareholder as a tax on income for the half-year specified
in the statement, as the dividend was not made payable to
the stockholder until the 17th of January of the succeeding
year; and the court, if the tax could be regarded as one imposed upon the shareholder, would be inclined to concur
with the plaintiffs that a dividend, neither due nor payable
to the shareholder within h given year, could not be taxed
to the shareholder as income of that year under the internal
revenue laws which were in operation at the time the tax in
question was assessed and collected.
Concede all that and still the court is of the opinion that

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES V. THE RAILROADS.
Opinion of Mr. JusticeClifford, &c.

the concession cannot benefit the piaintiffs, as the tax, by the
very terms of the act imposing it, is a tax on the railroad
company to be assessed and collected in the manner and
by the means prescribed in the act imposing the tax, and
having come to that conclusion it will not be necessary to
examine very critically the machinery enacted in prior laws
for the assessment and collection of income taxes against
individuals, as the court is of the opinion that those regulations afford little or no aid in solving any material question
involved in this record.
Attention was called during the argument to the fact that
the railroad company is authorized, by the same section
which imposes the tax, to deduct and withhold from all payments on account of any interest or coupons and dividends,
due and payable as aforesaid, the tax of 5 per centum, and
that the payment of the amount of the tax so deducted from
the interest or coupons or dividends, and certified by the
president or treasurer of the company, is made a discharge
to the company for the amount of the tax so paid, deducted,
and withheld, except where the company may have otherwise contracted.*
Attempt is made to invoke that provision as showing that
the tax is a tax on the shareholder and not a tax on the railroad company, but the court is unable to perceive that the
argument has any foundation whatever, as the provision
does not contain a word inconsistent with the preceding
part of the section, which in terms imposes the tax upon
the railroad company.
Beyond doubt those two provisions should be construed
together, and when so construed they are perfectly consistent and show to the entire satisfaction of the court that the
plaintiffs are liable to pay the tax iii controversy. They are
so liable because it appears that they, as such company,
having been indebted for money, issued bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness, payable with interest, or with coupons representing interest, in one or more years after date,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 139.

BARNES V.

THE

RAILROADS.

[slip.of

Opinion of 'Mr. Justice Clifford, &c.

and that they'declared a dividend in-money due or payable
to their stockholders as part of the earnings, profits, 'in:
come, or gains of such company, and the section provides
that such a company under such circumstances shall be subject to and-pay a-tax-of 5 per centum on" the amountof all
such interest or coupons, dividends or profits,'and authorizes
the company to deduct and withhold the amount of the tax
from the dividend due orpayable to their stockholders.
Different regulations for the assessment and collection of
the income taxes of every kind were prescribed in the prior
laws imposing internal revenue dutiesbut-they were not in
all respects satisfactory, and many controversies had arisen
calling in'question the action of the revenue officers in their
efforts to enforce the collection of that branch of the public
revenue. Contrariety of decision had resulted in some instances, and the Circuit Court had decided in one case that
a railroad company could not deduct and withhold the
amount of such a tax from a dividend due and payable to a
non-resident alien, the presiding justice being of opinionthat the language of the .prior act-did not warrant the conclusion that Congress intended to include such holders of
the bonds or certificates in th category of persons liable to
such an assessment.*
Congress; accordiiigly; ib-ord-er to remove those difficul-,
ties, imposed the tax upon the railroad company, and enacted
that the company'shoudld pay the same whenever and wherever the dividend should be payable, and to wfiatsoever
party or person the same should belong, showing beyond
the possibility of doubt that-Congress intended to hold the
railroad company absolutely and solely liable for the tax,
reserVing to the, company the right,.which is equally, tmqualified, of deducting and withholding from the dividend
the amount of the tax, whether the, dividend was due orpayable to the stockholder before or subsequent to the payment of the tax, 'and wholly irrespective of the question
Railroad-Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wallace, 269; Jackson v. Railway Co., 2-In
ternal Revenue Record, 174., '

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES V.

THE RAILROADS.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford, &e.

whether the stockholder was a resident or non-resident/or
citizen or non-resident alien.
Payment of the tax by the company is an absolute requirement, just as much so as if the company was the actual
holder of the bonds and the real owner of the dividends,
whether they deduct and withhold the amount from the
dividends or not, and the fact that the company is permitted
to do so, if they see fit, does not in the slightest degree
change the relation of the company to the United States, as
the taxpayers under that section of the law imposing internal revenue duties.
Confirmation of that view is also derived from the regulations'for the assessment andf collection of the tax contained
in the same section, which require that a return shall be
made and rendered to the assessor or assistant assessor on
or before the 10th day of the month following that in which
said interest, coupons, or dividends become due and payable,
and as often as every six months, and that the return shall
contain a true arid fiithful account of the tax, with a declaration annexed thereto, of the president or treasurer of the
company, verifying that statement under oath or affirmation.
All these regulations apply to the company, and the provision is that the company, if they make default, either in
rendering the return or in the payment of the'tax, shall for,
feit as a penalty the sum of $1000, and that the tax and the
penalty shall be assessed and collected as in other cases of
neglect or refusal.
Special reference is made by the plaintiffs to the regulation enacted in the 119th section of the act of the 2d of
March, 1867, that "taxes on income herein imposed" shall
he levied on the 1st day of March in each year, and be due
and payable on or before the 30th day of April in the same
year, as inconsistent with the theory assumed by the United
States, but the court is not able to perceive that the objection is entitled to any weight, as the income taxes therein
imposed are required to be assessed on the incomes of individuals, and the 117th section of the same act expressly
authorizes the individual to omit -from his return of gains,
VOL. XVIL

20

BARNES

v. THE

RAILROADS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of- Mr. Justice Clifford, &c.

profits, and income the amount of income received from institutions or corporations whose officers, as required by law,
withhold a per centum of the dividends made by such institutions-and pay the same to the officer authorized to receive
such payments. Important amendments were made by'that
act to some of the sections of the prior act, but the 122d
section, under which the tax in controversy was assessed,
was left in full force and operation, without any change,
alteration, or modification of any kind.
Such a dividend as that made by a railroad company is
not required to be included in the return mad6 by the shareholder of his gains, profits, and income, but is expressly required by law to be returned by the president or treasurer
of the railroad company, as before explained, and the act of
Congress in terms provides that the conpany shall be liable
to and pay the tax, no matter when or where or to whatsoever party or person the dividend may be payable.*
Prior to that time the rule had been different, as the 116th
section of the act of the 3d of March, 1865, expressly required
that the amount of income received from such institutions by
a shareholder should be included in his return to the assessor,
but the power to lay and collect taxes for Federal purposes is
vested in Coigress, and Congress having repealed tlat provision and substituted another in its place, requiring the
return to be made by the president or treasurer of the company, and having finally authorized the shareholders to omit
the amounts received from that source from their returns,
the argument would seem to.be concluded unless itbe pssumed that some one or all of these regulations transcend
the power of Congress under the Constitution, which is not
pretended.t
. Argument to show that a railroad company may be taxed
for Federal purposes is certainly unnecessary, as the theory
is not controverted, and the proposition that the dividends
of such a compipny are the proper objects of such taxation
is also selTevident. Congress may tax such a dividend be* 14 Stat. at Large, 139 and 478.

t- 13 Id. 4i79 ; 14 Id. 478.

BARNES V. THE RAILROADS.

Dec. 1872.]

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

fore it is paid to the holders of the securities, either as the
property of the company or of the shareholders, at the election of Congress, nor can either party have any just ground
of complaint if proper regulations are enacted to apportion
and distribute the burden.
Power to tax either thecompany or the shareholder being
admitted, the only question which can arise in this case is a
question of construction, and the court is of the opinion that
the act of Congress imposes the tax in controversy upon the
railroad company. Having come to that conclusion it is
not necessary to enter into any discussion of the question
whether the action of trespass will lie in such a case against
the collector of the revenue. He acts under a warrant or
other process from the assessor, and it may well be doubted
whether he can be regarded as a trespasser unless it appears
that he exceeds his jurisdiction. Several cases decide that
the party taxed must pay the tax and bring assumpsit to
recover back the money.*
Neither party, however, raised any such questions in the
court below, nor has it been discussed in this court, and in
view of those facts the court is not inclined to decide it at
the present time.
I.

UT TILE SECOND CLASS Or CASES.

Internal revenue taxes were assessed against the corporation plaintiffs by the assessor of the first collection district
charged with that duty, and the plaintiffs denying the legality of the assessment refused to pay the tax, and the collector having distrained the goods and chattels mentioned
in the declaration, as the means of enforcing payment, the
plaintiffs brought an action of trespass against him and his
.deputy, claiming damages for the alleged unlawful seizure
and detention of the goods and chattels.
Enough appears in the record to show that the plaintifls
are a railroad company; that being indebted for money to
* Philadelphia v Collector, 5 Wallace, 731; Assessor v. Osbornes, 9 Id.

BARNES v. THE RAILROADS.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford, &c.

a large amount they issued bonds for the same, or other
evidences of indebtedness, payable with interest, or with
coupons representing interest, in one or more years subsequent to their date. On the 10th of January, 1870, the railroad company declared a dividend in money amounting to
the sum of $43,567.63 on their capital stock as part of their
income and gains made, and which accrued between the 1st
of July, 1869, and the 1st of January following.
Apart from the dividend an instalment of semi-annual
interest also fell due at the same time, amounting to $21,000,
which accrued during the same six months for which the
dividend of the income and gains was declared. Due return was made by the railroad company of the amount of
the dividend and interest to the assessor of internal revenue
for the first collection" district, and a tax of 5 per cent. on
the amount was assessed by the proper revenue authorities,
which is the tax in controversy, and for which the distraint
was made, as alleged in the pleadings.
Detailed statement of the pleadings is unnecessary, as
they are the same as in the preceding case, and all the questions presented for decision are the same except one, which
will be made the subject of special examination. Judgm6nt
was rendered fur the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court, and the
defendants brought a writ of error and removed the cause
into this court.
Such a dividend, declared by such a company, in me. ey,
due or payable to their stockholders as part of the eart gs,
profits, income, or gains of the company, it was decideJfin
the preceding case rendered the company liable to the tax
of 5 per cent. on the amount of such income or gains, as
more fully explained in the opinion delivered in that case,
and the court is of the opinion that the tax on the Semiannual instalment of interest is within the same principle,
and that it'must bc governed by'the same rule.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the plaintiffs
that the rule there adopted is niot applicable in this case, as
the dividend was not declared within the six months speci-

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES

v.

THE RAILROADS.

Opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford, &c.

fled in the pleadings, and because neither the dividend nor
the interest was due or payable to the stockholders until the
10th of January following. Beyond doubt the two cases
difrer in that respect, and the question in this case is whether
the admitted fact that the dividend was not declared within
the half-year during which the income and gains were made
takes the case out of the rule adopted in the other case.
Much weight would be due to that suggestion if the tax
was a tax upon the shareholder, but the court has already
decided that the tax imposed by that provision is a tax upon
the railroad company, and the court adheres to that conclusion, which is confirmed by the fact that the object made
taxable by that section is not only "any dividend declared,"
but the language also extends to "all profits of such company carried to the account of any fund, or used for constructiou" showing that Congress intended that such company shall be subject to and pay a tax of 5 per centum on
the amount of all such interest or coupons, dividends or
profits, whenever and wherever the same shall be payable
and to whatsoever party or person the same may ultimately
belong.
Tested by these congiderations it is quite clear that it is
the fund which accrued within the half-year which Congress
intended to tax, and the record shows that every dollar of
the fund taxed in this case accrued within the last six months
of the year preceding the time when the dividend was actually declared.
Although the dividend was not declared until the 10th of
January, 1870, yet it is true that the object taxed is the fund
which accrued within the last six months of the preceding
year, and it is certain that the fund taxed does not include a
dollar of the income or gains of the company for the succeeding yeAr. Concede that, and still it is insisted by the
plaintiffs that the dividend cannot be regarded as income
and gains of the company for the six months specified in the
pleadings, because it was not actfiaHy declared as such by
the company within that period, but the court is not able to
adopt that construction of the act, as it would enable the

BARNES

V. TuE

RAILROADS.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

company to postpone the payment of such a tax for six

months or even for a year whenever they pleased, by omitting to declare a diviidend, which would be inconsistent with
the plain intent of Congress as manifested by the language
employed in the section imposing the tax.
Taxes illegally exacted under the revenue laws of the
United States may be recovered back, if paid under protest,
in an action of assumpsit against the collector, but the person taxed cannot enjoin the collector from enforcing payment, and very grave doubts are entertained whether trespass
against the collector is a proper remedy under existing laws.
No such error, however, having been assigned in the case
the court will not decide the point at the present time.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED IN EACH CLASS 0-F CASES, and the causes
remanded for further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of the court.

BRADLEY, J.: I concur in the judgment of the court
on the ground that the 119th section of the Internal Revenue
Act, in affixing a limit to the period for imposing and collecting the income tax, referred in express terms only to
the annual tax returnable and payable by individuals, and
to no other fax im'posed by the act.
Mr. Justice STRONG (with whom concurred the CHIEF
JUSTICE and Justices DAVIS and FIELD), dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the construction which a. majority of my brethren have given to the acts of Congress.
relative to the income tax, and consequently'I dissent from
the judgments which have been directed in these cases. The
reasons for this dissent I propose now to give, as briefly as
I can.
Whatever may be said of the earlier acts of Congress,
that of June 30th, 1864:,t as amended by the acts of 1866
and 1867, provided a-complete system of taxation upon incomes. The 116th section, which is the first that had reference to the subject,J enacted that there should le -levied,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 475, e' 10.

t- 13 Id. 284.

$ 14-Id. 477.

Dec. 1872.]

]BARNES v. TiE RAILROADS.

Ooinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

collected, and paid annually upon the gains, profits, and income of every person residing iu the United States, or of
any citizen of the United'States residing" abroad, whether
derived from any kind of property, rents, interest, dividends,
or salaries, or from any pi'ofessiou, trade, employment, or
vocition carried oil in the United States or elsewhere, or
from ahy soaree whatever, a tax of five per centum on tleamount so derived over $1000, and that a like tax should be
levied, collected, and paid annually upon the gains, profits,
and income of every business, trade, or profession carried
on in the United States by persons residing without the
United States and not citizens thereof. The same section
declared that the tax therein provided for should be assessed,
collected, and paid upon the gains, profits, or income for the
year ending the 31st day of December next preceding the
time for levying, collecting, and paying said duty. What
that time was directed to be, as well as the duration of the
tax, was defined by the 119th section, which enacted as follows: "That the taxes on incomes herein imposed shall be
levied on the 1st day of March, and be due and payable on
or before the 30th day of April in each year."
No language could be more comprehensive. It embraces
income of every description, whether derived from labor or
property, and it particularly mentions income derived from
inierest and divideds, adding the words, "or from any source
whatever." It is not to be doubted that it includes income
derived from dividends on stock held in railroad companies,
and income received as interest on bonds of such companies.
This section, I think, is the only one that imposes any income tax. All the other sections, from the 117th to the
123d inclusive, are classified under the title "income," and
they relate to it, but they are provisions for the ascertainment of the amount, and for the collection of the tax. None
of them impose any new or different tax upon the taxpayer.
They all have reference to that income made taxable by the

116th section.

That, it was known, might be derived from

various sources, and provision was made for ascertaining its
amount, as well as for collecting the tax upon every item

BARNES V.

THE

RAILROADS.

ESup.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong,.Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

composing it. The 117th section, as amended by the act of
1867, required that there should be included in the estimate,
inter alia, the share of any person of the gains and profits of
all companies, whether incorporated or partnership, who
would be entitled to the same if divided, whether divided or
otherwise, "except the amount of income received from institutions or corporations whose officers, as required by law,
withhold a per centum of the dividends made by such institutions, and pay the same to the officer authorized to receive
the same, and except that portion of the salary or pay received for services in the civil, military, or naval, or other
service of the United States, including senators, representatives, and delegates in Congress, from which the tax has
been deducted." But these exceptions recognize the dividends and interest received from such companies, and the
gains from the-salaries or pay of United States officers, as'a
part of-the taxpayer's income. It is his share of the gains
and profits of the companies, or corporations, and not -the
gains of the companies themselves whiuh the exceptions
direct shall not be included. The reason of this is too obvious t6 escape notice, unless it be forgotten that thie 117th
section is but part of a system for levying and collecting an
income tax. If it be construed, as it must be, in connection with the other sections relating to the same subject, it
is plain that its purpose was to ascertain only that part of
a person's income, the tax upon which the next following
section (the 118th) required should be paid by the taxpayer
himself to the collector, leaving that part of his income,
which consisted of his share of the gains and profits of institutions or corporations whose officers, as required by law,
withheld a Per centuni of'its dividends and paid the same to
the officer authorized to receive it, to be ascertained and the
tax thereon to be collected by the companies themselves.
A special mode of collecting the tax on such dividends, interest, and government salaries was intended to be provided,
and was actually provided.
Passing by the 118th and 119th sections, which relate to
the manner of making returns of that part of a taxpayer's

Dec. 1872.]

]BARNES

v. THE

RAILROADS.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

income the tax upon which he is required to pay directly to
the collector, I come to the 120th, 121st, 122d, and 123d seetions. They all relate to that portion of the taxpayer's income excepted by the 117th section from the return which
he is required to make to the assessor by the 118th section.
They provide for the collection of the tax upon that portion.
The 120th imposes a duty of 5 per centum on all dividends
in scrip and money thereafter declared due, wherever and
whenever the same shall be payable to stockholders, policyholders, or depositors, as part of the earnings, income or
gains of any bank, trust company, or savings institution, and
of any fire, marine, life, or inland insurance company, either
stock or mutual. This tax the banks and other institutions
described were required to pay, and they were authorized to
withhold from all payments made on account of any dividends or sums of money that may be due and payable as
aforesaid the said duty of 5 per centum. It is unnecessary
to notice particularly the 121st section.
The 122d section enacted "that any railroad, canal, turnpike, canal navigation, or slack-water company, indebted
for any money for which bonds or other evidence of indebtedness have been issued, payable in one or more years after
date, upon which interest is stipulated to be paid, or coupons
representing the interest, or any such company that may
have declared any dividend in scrip or money due or payable
to its stockholders, including non-residents, whether citizens
or aliens, as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains of
such company, . . . shall be subject to and pay a tax of 5
per centum on the amount of all such interest or coupons,
dividends or profits, whenever and wherever the same shall
be payable, and to whatsoever party or person the same may
be payable, including non-residents, whether citizens or
aliens; and said companies are hereby authorized to deduct
and withhold from all payments on account of any interest
or coupons, and dividends, due and payable as aforesaid, the
tax of 5 per centum; and the payment of the amount of said
tax so deducted from the interest, or coupons, or dividends,
and certified by the president or treasurer of said company,

BARNES V.

THE

PAILAtOADS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opiiion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

shall discharge said company from that amount of the dividend, or interest, or coupons on the bonds or other evidences
of their indebtedness so held by any person or party whatever, except where said companies may have contracted
otherwise."
The 123d section enacted that there should be levied, collected, and paid on the excess above $1000 of all salaries of
officers of the United States a tax of 5 per centum, and it
required paymasters and disbursing officers to deduct and
withhold said tax when making payment to such officers.
All these sections, I think, relate to the tax upon income,
whether derived from interest, dividends, or from any source
whatever, imposed by the 116th section, and their sole purpose was, not to impose a new tax, but to provide a different
mode of collection from the taxpayer. The dividends, interest, and salaries mentioned in them were not required by
the 117th and 118th sections to be included in the general
estimate, or in the return made to the assistant assessor, because their amount was as certainly ascertainable by the corporations or officers required to collect the tax as it could
have been by any return of the taxpayer, and it was more
easily and certainly collectible.
I need not say more upon this branch of the case. If there
could be a doubt in any mind that the tax for the collection
and payment of which provision was made in the 122d section was a part of that imposed upon ibcome by the 116th,
it must be set at rest by the decision in Jackson v. The Northern Central -Railway, a case tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Maryland, and subsequently
removed here. The primary question in that case was
whether the tax on interest payable by railroad companies
(namely, the tax spoken of in the 122d section) was chargeable against non-resident alietts, and it was ruled-by the
Chief Justice that it was not. The ruling was based upon
the position that the tax on such interest was the same as
that imposed by the 116th section of the act of 1864, viz.,
a part of the income tax, and that as the'll6th section did
not include non-resident aliens, the tax on interest spoken

Dec. 1872.]

V. THE RAILROADS.
BARNES
8

Opinion of the Chief

jIustice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

of in the 122d was not chargeable against them-the deduction of 5 Per cent. being only a mode of collecting the income tax. This decision was subsequently affirmed in the
Supreme Court,* and the language of the court was as follows: "The decision was placed mainly upon the ground
that, looking at the several provisions bearing upon the
question, and giving to them a reasonable construction, it
was believed not to be the intent of Congress to impose an
income tax on non-resident aliens; that they were not only
not included in the description of persons upon whom the
tax was imposed, but were impliedly excluded by confining
it to residents of the United States and citizens residing
abroad [an exclusion only found in the 116th section], and
that the deduction from the prescribed income of the interest
on these railroad bonds, when paid by the companies, was
regarded as simply a mode of collecting this part of the income tax. We concur in this view." I understand this
case as determining several things First, that'the 116th and
122d sections of the act of 1864 are parts of one system, devised for income taxation; second, that the tax on railroad
dividends, and on interest of railroad indebtedness, is not a
different tax from that imposed upon income generally;
and, third, that the 122d section was intended merely to provide a special mode of collection for a part of the tax.
This decision was made, it is true, before the act of 1864,
as amended by the act of 1866, had been again amended by
the act of 1867, but the later amendment made no other
change in the law than extending its provisions so as to
embrace dividends and interest payable to non-resident
aliens.
Regarding it, then, as an incontrovertible proposition that
the tax mentioned in the 122d section is not a different tax
fro ithat imposed by the 116th, that it is a part of the tax
levied upon income generally, no matter from what source
derived, and that the purpose of the section was to provide
a special mode of collection of the tax upon income consist*

7 Wallace, 262.

816

BARNES V.

THE

RAILROADS.

[Sup.

ot.

Opifiion of-the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

ing of railroad interest and dividends, I cannot comprehend
why it did not expire with the expiration of the tax upon
other income. When that expired Was determined by the
119th section, which was in the following words: "The
taxes on incomes herein imposed shall be levied on the first
day of May, and be due and payable on or before the thirtieth day of June of each year until and including the year
1870, and no longer." Whatever else this clause may mean,
it manifestly embraces iu terms taxes on income fiom any
source-all income upon which the act imposed a tax. It
excepts none. It does not speak of taxes on income, a return of which is required to be made by the taxpayer to the
assessor, but its language is "taxes on incomes herein imposed."
As the 119th section imposed no tax, the reference must be
to the income tax imposed by all parts of the act-to all of
them, as well those upon railroad dividends, &c., as well as
those imposed upon dividends of telegraph, manufacturing,
or other companies, or upon income from any source.
The clause is also a clear enactment that the income to
which it refers should not be subject to a tax unless derived
or received prior to January 1st, 1870. 1o one who carefully reads the whole act can doubt that the 119th section
must be construed in connection with the 116th, and that if
speaks of the income made taxable by that section. That
enacted, as has already been noticed, that the tax thereby
imposed, including the tax on income derived from dividends
and interest, should "be assessed, collected, and paid upon
gains, profits, and income for the year' ending the 31st day
of December next preceding the time for levying, collecting, and paying said tax." Incontestably, therefore, though
the lart annual tax vas required' to be levied on the 1st
of March, 1870, it *as required to be a tax on the income
of the year 1869. Hence it is plain the provision that the
taxes on income should be levied-on. the Ist of March in
each year until and including the yeai 1870, ahd no longer,
must mean that'the income of 1:870 should not be subject
to taxation.
I think, therefore, these two propositions are beyond any

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES V. THE RAILROADS.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

reasonable doubt, or I should so think were it not that a
majority of my brethren are of a different- opinion.
1. The tax upon dividends made, and interest payable,
by railroad, canal, turnpike, canal navigation, and slackwater companies, for the payment and collection of which
provision was made by the 122d section, was a tax on income within the meaning of the 116th seqtion, and not a
different and independent tax.
2. That the tax upon all income, without regard to its,
source, "dt'ived" or "received" by the taxpayer prior to
January 1st, 1870, expired with the close of the next preceding year.
These conclusions are demanded, I think, alike by the
letter of the act of Congress and by its spirit. To my mind
they seem to be the only reasonable construction that can
be given to it. I see nothing to warrant the belief that
Congress intended to impose a burden upon income from
one species of property greater or longer continued than
that imposed upon income from other property, or that they
intended to discriminate against Federal officers and compel
them to pay a tax on their salaries, after taxes upon all other
salaries had ceased. The dividends received by a shareholder of a railroad company, or a canal, turnpike, or slackwater navigation company, or of a banking, trust, or insurance company, are, in every sense, as much his income as are
the dividends he may receive from any other company; for
example, a bridge, or a manufacturing-corporation. So is
the interest received for loans to a railroad company as truly
income of the bondholder as is the interest received by him
from permanent loans to any other corporation, or to natural
persons. Was it the intention of Congress to enact that one
who lent his money to a telegraph company, or to a mining
or manufacturing company, should be exempt from a tax
upon his interest received after December 31st, 1869; but
that one who lent to a canal or railroad company should
continue to pay the tax indefinitely and for all time? Is
such a reasonable construction of the act of 1864 and its
amendments? I cannot believe it. I cannot attribute to

BARNES

V. THE RAILROADS.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

Congress ally such injustice. The act shows no intent to
make any such discriminations. Yet such discriminations
ar.e made if the tax mentioned in the 122d section, as well
as thit mentioned in the 123d, did not expire when the tax
on other income expired.
I come now to the question-important to be considered
in view of the pleadings in these cases-whether the tax
mentioned in the 122d section was a tax upon the railroad
companies, or a tax upon the stockholders and bondholders
of those companies. In regard to this there ought to be no
doubt. If it was a tax upon the railroad company, then the
income of the stockholders and bondholders, derived from
their. dividends and interest, was exempt from all income
tax, although the 116th section taxed income derived from
any source, including interest and dividends. Such income
was not-to be returned to the assessor, and if not taxed in
the mode designated in the 122d section, it was not taxed
at all. To such a" absurdity the construction that the section lays'a tax upon the railroad company-for its income inevitably leads.
But look now at the language of the section. It required
any railroad company indebted for any money for which
bonds or other evidence of indebtedness have been issued,
bearing interest, payable one or more years after date, or
any such company that should declare any dividend as part
of the earnings, profits, or gains of such company, should
be subject to, and pay a tax of 5 per centum on all such interest, dividends, or profits vhenever and wheiever the same
should be payable, and to whatsoever party or person the
same should be payable, and authorized the componies-to deduct
and withhold from all payments on account of any interest or
dividends, due and payable as aforesaid, the, tax of 5 per
centum. It further enacted that the payment of the amount
so deducted from-mte interest or-dividends should discharge
the company from that amount of the dividend, or interest,
dud to the stockholder or bondholder. 'it is too clear for
argumentthat this was a collection of the tax fibm.the stockholder, or creditor, aid not from the c6mpany, and we have,

Dec. 1872.]

BA RzES

Opinion of the Chfef

v. THE

RAILROADS.

tistice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

in effect, so decided in the ase of the State Freight Tax.* Not
a dollar was to be taken from the treasury of the company.
The tax was to come wholly from the share, or the bondholder. The company was constituted the mere tax col-.
lector, and was made liable only in default of its duty as
such. If authorities are needed in support of so plain a
pro osition, they may be founid in Jackson v. Railroad Company, cited above, and in -Haightv. Railroad Comnpapy,t both
construing this act. Indeed, in some of the States this mode
of collecting a tax from shareholders and bondholders of
corporations has of late been frequently adopted, and, so far
as I know, it has never before been thought that the tax in
such cases was a tax upon the companies, instead of a tax
upon their shareholders or creditors. As well might it be
claimed that when a tax collector is charged with the amount
of the duplicate of taxes he is empowered by his warrant to
collect, the taxes are laid upon him, and not upon those
from whom he is required to collect them.
But the opinion of the majority of my brethren, that by
the 122d section Congress intended to tax the railroad companies for their gains, profits, and income, and not to tax
their bondholders and shareholders, leads to a very rtmarkable result. The interest due from the companies to their
creditors-interest which accrued in 1869-is treated as income of the companies for that year, and they are taxed for
it. Such is the effect of the judgments entered. The companies are compelled to pay an income tax, not upon what
they received, but upon what they were obliged to pay to
their creditors. A construction of the act of Congress that
leads to such a result cannot be right. It seems io me the
fact that the tax was exacted out of interest payable by the
companies, as well as from dividends declared and payable
by them, demonstrates that Congress had in view, in the
122d section, not the income of the companies, nor a tax
upon them for it, but the income of share and bondholders,
and a tax upon them. Railrpad companies were taxed upon
*15

Wallace, 232.

t 6 Id. 15.

.820

BA.,RES

v.

Tin

RAIL-)0ADS.

Opinion of the Ohief Justicp, and of Strong,

f[Sup, Ct.

Jj., dissenting.
azis,,ana.Field,
v

their gains in another section, the -03d.. They 'eie not ia.
tended to be taxed il),this.
Lolding it, then, t9Q be y,-ry learthat thissectiQn imposed
no new tax,, and that. its design was .merely to provide a
.modeof collection of a partof the income tax imposed by
the, 116th section upon the holders of. the bonds and tock
of railroad companies, the questipn is uot,.in .my judgment,
,what-the majority ,of,the court considers it to lbe,.whether
.the income upol which the tax in co.utroversy in these cases
was attempted to be levied was th.,ilieme of. the railroad,
.companies for 1$69,,bigt wxheth er jt was the income of the
stockholders. and bopdholders- fqrthat year, In two of the
cases the dividends were declared in December, 1869, but
were made payable in January, 1870. Tley were not, therefbre, receivable until 1870. Iti all the other cases, the dividends were declared, and the -interest fell due in the year
last mentioned. True, the, dividends were out of profits
made by the companies in 1869, and the interest on the debt
due by them accrued in that year. _' But were the dividends
and the interest income of the stockholders and bondholders
then? Plainly, tbat which was the income of the companies
in one year maynot have been the income of their shareholders or creditors until the next. If it was not their income -until 1870, it was not taxable against them, and the
tax claimed in these cases, is, as I have, shown, a tax upon
them, That nothing was income of the taxpayers. until it
was receivable by them is most apparent. The act itself
sufficiently shows this. It was income "derived," or received, either actually, or potentially, that alouewas made
taxable. The taxwas levied "whenever" and wherever the
dividends or interest should become payable. The. companies were" required to render rletnrns to the assessors, or
assistant assessors, on the tenth day of the month following
that in which the interest, coupons, or dividends became
"due and pgyale."* The tax was an excise. It was taking
out of theiucome ;a part of it, audit must, therefore, have
-

Vide,

122.

-

Dec. 1872.]

BARNES

v. THE

RAILROADS.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Strong, Davis, and Field, JJ., dissenting.

been a tax upon something received, or receivable-something out of which the tax could be paid when exacted.
And such was the uniform construction given to the act of
Congress by the government, until after the tax had expired.
Prior to the act of 1864 there was a tax on dividends of
three per cent., and when by that act the rate was raised to
five per cent. the Commissioner of Internal Revenue issued
a circular, dated July lst,'1864, declaring that "all dividends payable on and after July 1st, 1864, no matter when
declared, are subject tc the duty of 5 per centum." I have
no doubt, therefore, that the dividends declared, and the interest accrued, must be regarded as income of the stockholders, or bondholders, for the year in which they became
payable. It is quite immaterial, then, that the profits of the
companies were made, or that the interest on their debt
accrued, in 1869. They were not the taxpayers, and the tax
was not levied upon their income. It was- levied only upon
that part of their gains, or the interest due from" them,
which had become payable to, and, therefore, income of
their shareholders and bondholders. Those persons have
paid taxes upon the -full income of six entire years under
the act of 1864. The judgment%.3n. these cases compel them
to pay.a tax upon their income for six years and a half, when
all other persons whose income was derived from interest or
dividends in other companies were relieved at the expiration of six years. In my judgment, the act of Congress
warrailts no such injustice.
I think the judgments in all the cases should be affirmed.
[See the next case, and note to it on pages 885, 836.]

'70iL. XVI

