Oct. 1873.]

RAY V. SMITH.
Syllabus.

conducive to justice than to affirm a judgment' in a case
where it plainly appeared that the court mistook the law,
though the mistake might not be so presented as to be capable of being corrected by this court.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been frequently held by this court, that in passing
upon the questions presented in a bill of exceptions, it will
not look beyond the bill itself.* The pleadings, and the
statements of the bill, the verdict, and the judgment, are
the only matters that are properly before the court. iDepositions, exhibits, or certificates not contained in the bill, cannot be considered by the court. The case of Flandersv.
Tweed, was exceptional. The court intend to adhere to this
practice.
Under this rule there is then nothing whatever in the
present case for the court to pass upon.
It is impossible upon a record such as this is, that we
should know whether the charge is correct or erroneous, or
,whether the refusals to charge as requested were justified,
or whether they were improper.
As already said, there is absolutely nothing presented to
this court for consideration.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAY V. SMITH.
1. Although it may be conceded that notice of demand and non-payment
of a note need not be given to an indorser who has received funds from
the maker, indisputably and only for the purpose of paying the note
whenever presented (an indorser in such a case becoming liable as a
principal debtor), yet as such a rule does not apply when the indorser
having funds of the maker has them not in that way, but only from the
profits of a business in conducting which he was a partner of the maker,
and is simply authorized to apply the funds so in his hands to the pay* Norris v. Jatikson, 9 Wallace, 125; Lincoln v. Claffin, 7 Id. 136; Left-

wich v. Lecanu, 4 Id. 187; iRussell v. Ely, 2 Black, 580.

RAY V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
mert of notes at their maturity, and thus may have parted with them
a certain time after the maturity,-in such a case it is error to take away
from the jury the question whether the note was legally presented to
the maker for payment, and whether notice of dishonor was legally
given to the indorser. The most that in such a case can properly be
asked by the holder of the notes, is that the evidence should be submitted to the jury to find whether it proved that the defendant bad become the principal debtor by arrangement between him and the maker,
with instructions that if it did, the plaintiff was entitled to recover;
and that if it did not, the indorser could not be held liable without proof
of reasonable demand upon the maker, and notice.
2. Though a party may have taken exception before a trial to the refusal of
a court then to suppress a deposition, yet if he allow the deposition to
be read on the trial without opposition, he cannot avail himEelf, in this
court, of his previous exception..

ERROR

to the District Court for the Middle District of

Alabama; the case being thus:
Smith, in November, 1866, sued Ray in the court below
as the indorser of two negotiable notes, made by one Harkaway. The notes were both dated April 12th, 1861, and
were made payable at the Bank of Mobile, one on the 1st day
of March, 1862, and the other on the 1st day of N~ovember, in the same year. Both the maker and the indorser
were then, an~d continued to be, citizens of the State of
Algbama; and the holder of the notes was, and continued
to be, a citizen of the State of New York. When the notes
fell due in 1862, they were not presented for payment, in
consequence of the war of the rebellion then existing, but
they were presented in 1866, a certain time after the close of
the war, and were dishonored. Notice of the dishonor was
then give'n to the indorser.
The plaintiff alleged, in his declaration,;as an excuse for
the non-presentation of the notes at the time when they fell
due, the existence of the civil war, and the residence of the
holder in the State of New York, and that of the maker
and indorser in Alabama, regions then at war with each
other; and alleged further that he had presented the notes
and given notice of the dishonor within a reasonable time
afteP the termination of the war, specifying the date of the
presentation, &c. - The defendant set up that, the late named

Oct. 1873.]

RAY V. SMITH.
Statement of the case.

was not reasonable in point of time. And evidence was
given as to when the war ended and intercourse was resumed; -when the notes could have been presented, and
when they were in fact presented.
A portion of the evidence (descriptive of the course of
business out of which the claim arose) was derived from a
deposition of the plaintiff, taken de bene esse, which before
the trial the defendant had moved to suppress. The court
,on this motion refused to suppress it. An exception was
taken to this refusal, but on the trial it was read without
objection.
It appeared in evidence that the maker of the notes, and
Ray, the indorser, were partners in a business which was
actively conducted by Ray; that after the notes were indorsed to the plaintiff, and before their maturity, Ray had
in his hands of the profits of the business, belonging to -the
maker, a sum larger than the amount of the twp notes; that
this sum remained in his hands until after the notes matured, and that he was authorized to apply it to their payment, at their maturity. But it also appeared that he could
not find the notes at their maturity, nor until the spring of
1866, at which time, as already said, they were presented to
the maker for payment, and that before they were thus pre-.
sented, the maker had instructed the defendant to apply the
sum in his hands to the payment of other debts, which the
defendant had done.
The court charged:
"If there were no evidence in this case that the maker of the
notes in suit had provided the indorser with funds to discharge
them at maturity, then the question whether the notes were
legally presented for payment, and the question" whether legal
notice of protest was given to the indorser,-would have had to
be submitted to the jury. The evidence on this point is that
Ray was provided by the maker of the notes with the means
of indemnifying himself against his indorsement. He need not
have parted with these means until the notes were paid and in
hia possession. He chose to do so, however, and cannot now
complain of the want of demand on the. maker, or notice of

RAY

V. SMIT11.

[Sup. Ch.

Opinion of the court.

protest to himself. I therefore direct your verdict for the plaintiff for 81124.50, with interest thereon from the 4th- March, 1862,
and for $1124.50, with interest thereon from the 4th November,
1862."
To this charge the defendant excepted, and offered to
state to the court the grounds of his exceptions; but the
court refused any such statement.
Messrs. B. T. Merrick and S. 1# Bice, for the plaintiff in
error, insisted:
1st. That the 6ourt had taken the case improperly from
the jury.
2d. That it had improperly refused to suppress the deposition before the trial.
Mr. P. Phillips, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether timely presen.tment of the notes was made to
the maker, and whether due notice of their dishonor was
given to the defendant who had indorsed them, are questions
which were not submitted to the jury. The court below
appears to have been of opinion, that in view of the facts
given in evidence, neither demand of payment nor notice to
the indorser was necessary to justify a recovery against him.
The jury was instructed in substance, that even if there was
no legal demand and notice, the want of tbem was suffieiently excused; and that the plaintiff was entitled to a
verdict for the amount of the notes with interest from the
dates when, according to their terms, they fell due. It is
necessary, therefore, to inquire whether the evidence, as
exhibited in the bill of exceptions, warranted such instru'ctions.
It is undoubtedly the law, that though the plaintiff was
relieved by the war from obligation to make demand upon
the maker of the notes when they came to maturity, it was
necessary for him, in order to charge the indorser, to make
such demand within a reasonable time after it became pos-

Oct. 1873.]

RAY V. SMITI

°415

Opinion of the court.

sible; that is, after the close of the war; unless he was excused by the fact that the indorser had sufficient funds of
the maker in hand, which he had received in the course of
a current business, and which he bad authority to apply to
the payment of the notes at their maturity. And whether
that alone constituted a sufficient excuse, is the real question
now.
An indorser of a promissory note is only secondarily
liable. His responsibility is, in its nature, a contingent one,
and ordinarily, performance of the condition to make demand of the maker and give notice of his default in due
time is an essential part of the title of one who asserts an
indorser's liability. It has often been regretted that courts
have dispensed with the performance of that condition for
any cause. Still, the principal reason for the requirement
of demand and notice is, that the indorser, if looked to for
payment, may have the earliest opportunity t 9 take steps for
his own protection. Hence, it has been said, in some cases,
that when by no possibility a failure to make demand and
give notice could have injured him, or rather, when they
could by no possibility have enabled him to protect himself,
proof of demand and notice are not necessary. It must be
admitted there has been much inconsistency in the decisions
respecting the application of this rule. In some, it has been
hield that if an indorser has taken an indemnity from the
maker, he is not entitled to notice of default. But this is
not sustained by sound reason, and the best-considered cases
assert the contrary doctrine. The indemnity may prove insufficient. At all events, it is not inconsistent with the existence of a remedy over against the maker, and the correct
rule, as stated, by Bailey, J., in Brown v. Mtffey/,* is that
every indorser ought to have notice whenever he has a
remedy over. All the cases agree, however, that when, by
arrangement between the maker and the indorser, the latter
has become the principal debtor, and primarily liable, he
may not insist upon notice. Presentment to the maker fol* 15 East, 222.

RAY V. gmvi.

ESUP. CL.

Opinion of the-court.

lowed by notice to himself cal be of no serVice to him, for
he has no remedy over. And he becomes the priicipal
debtor when, either before or at thb maturity of the note, he
is supplied by the maker with sufficient funds for the purpose of paying it. Receiving the funds for such an avowed
purpose, lie assumes al obligation to take up the note; and,
as has been said, he may be regarded as al agent who has
un'dertaken to pay, and who, therefore, *cannot be disappointed if his principal, trusting to his obligation, takes no
further steps for the payment.
-Inthe present case, the evidence does not necessarily
establish that the funds Which the indors'er held were placed
]n his hands for the purpose of paying the notes. They
were derived from the profits of the' business, in conducting
which he was a partlier of the maker; and he was'merely
authorized to apply them to the payment of the notes, at
their maturity. Whether this proved the existence of an
obligation assumed by' him to take them up, or in other
words, whether, as between hin and the maker, he thus became the primary debtor, is a question which the court could
not correctly answer in the affirmative as a conclusion of
law. If it did establish such an obligation, absence of demand and notice were immateria'l, and the plaintiff was entitled to a verdict. But if it did not, if the inddrser, as between himself and the maker, h. d not become the principal
debtor, if the authority to pay the notes out of the fund ii
his hands was only an arrangemet for his inidehinity, we
think he was at liberty to pay them to the' maker at any
time after the maturity of the notes, and before he had any
iotice that they remained unpaid. In.such a- cise, his liability to the holder remained contingent, and consequently,
unless there was a legal demand and notice, lie cannot be
charged. It follows, that the judge of the court below erred
indirecting a verdict for the 'Plaintif. The most that Could
properly be claimed by the holder'of the notes, was that the
evidence should be submitted to the jmuy to'fiud whether it
proved that the defendant had become the principal debtor
by arrangement between him and the maker, with instruc-

Oct. 1873.]

MOORE V. ]UNTINGTOX.
Syllabus.

tions that if it did, the plaintiff was entitled to recover; and
that if it did not, the indorser could not be held liable without proof of reasonable demand upon the maker, and notice.
Nothing more need be said respecting the charge given
to the jury. But as the case goes back for another trial, it
is'proper to notice an exception taken to the refusal of the
court to suppress the deposition of the plaintiff The deposition had been taken de bene esse, and before the trial the
defendant moved to suppress it. But when it was offered
at the trial, it was read without objection, and without exception. It may be that had it been objected to then, it
should not have been received. But after having permitted
it to be read at the trial without opposition, we think it cannot be objected now that the court received it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED) AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

MOORE V. HUNTINGTON.
1. The court reverses a decree where the court below affrmed a report of a
master finding (on evidence not competent, and in the face of answers
by surviving partners responsive to a bill) that the interest of a complainant's intestate in a partnership was one-third, the answers averring
that it was but one-eighth.
2. 'here a person sues in chancery as administrator of a deceased partner,
to have an account of partnership concerns, alleging in h.is bill that he
is the sole heir of the deceased partner, the fact that he is not so does
not make the bill abate for want of necessary parties: since a decree in
his favor as administrator would not interfere with the rights of others
who might claim a distribution after the complainant received the
money decreed to him.
3. Where-a cross-bill and answers are filed in a case and the decree undertakes to dispose of the whole case, it should dispose of the issues raised
in them.
4. It is not error in an appellate State court giving judgment against an appellant to include in the judgment sureties in the appeal and writ of
error bond. By signing the bond they become voluntary parties to the
bond and subject themselves to the decree.
6. On a bill by the representatives of a deceased partner against.surviving
partners for an account, these last should, not be charged with the sum
which the partnership assets at the exact date of the deceased partner's
death were worth, but only with such sum as by the usn of reasonable
VOL. xvwr.

27

