592 MANUVAOTURING COIMPANY V. UNITED STATES. [Sup. Ct.
Statement of the case.

MANUFACTURING

COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

Where a manufacturer of guns agrees with the government to make and
deliver, and the government agrees to receive and pay for, all the carbines of a certain kind (described) not exceeding six thousand, which
-the mrn~ufacturer can make within six months from the date of the
contract, and the government afterwards requests that certain alterations
may be made in the weapon, to effect which necessarily requires some
months, and the alterations (along with others of the manufacturer's
own suggestion, which were judicious and materially improved the
weapon) were made; the request of the government to make the alterations implies such a reasonable extension of the time as is iequisite to
make them, and if the government was aware of the progress of the
work, and gave no notice that it would refuse to accept the same if not
delivered within the six months originally specified, it must be held to
be boupd by the reasonable intendment above mentioned; and if after
the request to make the alterations, the manufacturer, proceeded in
good faith and without unnecessary delay, the government was bound
to accept the six thousand carbines though not delivered within the six
months; and having refused so to accept is bound to pay such damages
as the manufacturer has sustained by the government's said refusal.

from the Court of Claims.
The Amoskeag Manufacturing Company brought suit in
the Court of Claims against the United States on a contract,
by which the company had agreed to make and deliver, and
the United States had agreed to receive and pay for, all the
Lindner carbines, tot exceeding six thousand, which the
company could make in six months from the 15th day of
April, 1863, to be approved and inspected by Major Hagner,
and by which for each carbine so inspected and delivered
the United States was to pay $20.
Immediately after making this contract, the company entered upon the preparations necessary to the performance of
the work; and it was found as a fhct by the Court of Claims
that the companyT had the necessary means and facilities,
and could have delivered the six thousand carbines of the
,kind contracted for within the six months limited, in conformity with the agreement as first made, had not changes
and alterations been desired and requested by the government
APPEAL

Oct. 1873.] MANUFACTURING COMPANY V. UNITED STATES. 598
Statement of the ease.

In regard to these changes, the court found that General
Ripley, chief of ordnance, by letter of the date of April 23d,
1863, requested certain alterations to be made in the construction of the carbine; that these were made by the contractors as requested, and that these necessitated other
changes to make the parts conform, and also alterations in
the machinery, and new tools and fixtures to perform the
work. Other changes were made in the construction of the
weapon by the contractors, on their own motion, which were

important and judicious, and which materially improved it.
How nmuch time these changes required did- not precisely
appear; but it was admitted that they necessarily required
two or three months, a part of which resulted from the action
of the department, and that the contractors proceeded in
good fhith and without unnecessary delay.
It was further found that, on or about the 5th of April,
1864, the company exhibited one of the weapons for inspection, and gave notice to the department that the company
was then ready to commence delivery, and would deliver the
entire six thousand as rapidly as the government could inspect them, and asked that they should be then inspected and
received by the department, which was not done then and
had not since been done. It was further found that inspection of contract arms was always made at the place of manufacture, and was made of the parts of the arm before they
were put together. It was also found that the time consumed by the company in filling the contract beyond the
time fixed by its terms, to wit, six months, was rendered
necessary and indispensable by the changes, alterations, and
delays caused solely by and for the interest of the government; and further that the government was hware of the

progress of the work, and gave no notice that it should refuse
to accept the work if not delivered within the six months.
The arms were inspected by a competent person, and found
to be according to contract, and were packed in cases and
tendered to the government, which refused to receive or
pay for them.
The six thousand carbines were still at the time of this
VOL. X=.

88

594 MAN.UACTURING OOMPA'N V. .NITED STATES. [Sup. Ct.
Opinion of the court.

suit, brought March 15th, 1870, in the hands of the company,
not having been offered for sale, and on the 21st of March,
1871, when the Court .of Claims gave its judgment, were
worth, according to the finding of the court, $3 each. Their
value or market price at any previous time was not found.
The Court of Claims (by an equally divided court) dismissed
the petition, and the manufacturing company appealed.
Mr. G. -H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr.-S. _F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, in support of that dismissal:
The contract was to take, not a definite number of carbines, but all that could be furnished within six months,
whether fifty or five thousand, so that they did not exceed
six thousand. In other words, the contract was for the results of the industry of the plaintiff on such carbines, limited to six months, be the results small or large, so that the
carbines did not. exceed, in nurfAber, six thousand.
The slight changes suggested by the United States would
not, apparently, either by their direct or indirect effect, have
diminished the percentage of those results to any considerable extent. The case, as made ouit by the company, leaves
the court ignotant of that extent. The company mingled
the effect upon the time of delivery, of the changes required
directly or indirectly by the government, with that of those
other improvements added of its ownrhead.. This is a sort of
voluntary confusion of effects that justified the decree below.
We need not say how very important time is in all matters
concerning a flagrant war, or how especially important during the year 1863 of the late war. The variation of a performantie under which the government in 1863 might reasonably have expected several thousand arms from time to
time within six months, to one in which it was to receive
none for a year, was a variation of capithl magnitude.
Messrs. C. F. Pecic and W. W. McFarland,contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER (having recited much as the reporter has given them, the chief points of the findings of
the court below) delivered the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1873.]

MANUFACTURING COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

595

Opinion of thecourt.

We think that the statement of this case, as it appears in
the main points in the findings of the Court of Claims, is
the best argument in favor of the claimant that can be made.
We cannot believe there would be any hesitation in holding
al individual liable who, after making such a contract as
was made in this instance, and requesting such alterations
for his own benefit, and who, while aware of the increased
time necessary, and that the other party was in good faith
and with reasonable diligence performing the work, should
say, "I will not receive or pay for the work done, because it
was not done within the time first stipulated."
There is no reason why the parties should not modify the
contract by a change in the character of the weapon and
time of delivery; and if it was well known to both that the
change in the weapon required a longer time, as the court
finds it was, it mu:t be implied that both parties consented
to such an extension of time as was necessary or reasonable
for the completion of the contract.
The reply to this is, that the United States did not contract for six thousand carbines, but only for so many as
could be made and delivered within the.six months, and
that, notwithstanding the change ordered in their construction, as none were delivered within that time, they were not
bound to take any afterwards.
But this is a narrow and incomplete view of the contract.
It leaves out the claimant's rights in the matter. The
claimant had a right .under the original coiltract to deliver
six thousand carbines within six months, and have his pay,
if he could make so many within that time.- He could have
made them all within that time, as found by the court, but
for his consent to the request of-the government to change
for its benefit the structure of the weapon. As before
stated, this requedt implied such an-extension of time as was
known to be necessitated by tha4t improvement, and the government must be bound by this reasonable intendment as
an individual would have been.. As it is found substantially
that the' claimant was ready and offered to deliver within a
reasonable time, he is entitled to such damages as he sus-

SOHN V. WATERSON.

[Sup. at.

Statement of the case.

tained by the refusal of the government to receive and pay
for the arms.
What are those damages? It is not found that the weapons
had at any time a market value or current selling price. It
is not found what they were worth (r could have been sold
for at the time they were "offered f6r delivery and refused.
They wr6 ndt then oi at any time sold or offered for sale
by the, claimant. The only criterion of damage furnished is
the finding of the court, that the six thousand carbines are
now (at the time of the judgment of the court) in the possession of the company, and of the value of $3 each.
As the case stands, we REVERSE the judgment of fhe Court
of Oblainis, and rehand the case, with directions to render a
judgment for the claimant for such damages as, they may
ascertain that the claimant has sustained by reason of the
refusal of the United States to accept and pay for the six
thousand carbines.

SOnN v. WATERSON.
In construing a statute of limitations, it must, so far. as'it affects rights of
action in kxistenca when: the statute is passed, be held, in the absence
of contrary.provision, to begin when the cause of action is first subjected to its operation,
Hence, when a right of actifn accrued in 1851 and a statute of limitations
'passed in 1859 barred all actions of its kind riot " commenced within'
two years next after the cadse or right of such action shall have accrued," held, that the cause of action began to run from the date of the,
statute, and tlbat-suit might have been brought any time within two
years from that date, and, accordingly, that the statute had not summarily cut off existimig right,; thus making itself unconstitutional.

BRRon to the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas;
the case, as appeared by the pleadings, being thus:
Iln 854, one Sohn, a eiti.en 6f Ohio, obtained a judgment
in one of the courts'of the Sftte named against a certain

