Dec. 1872.]

ALLEN V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

ALLEN ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
1. A demand by the United States for the proceeds of Indian trust bonds,
unlawfully converted to their own use by persons who had illegally procured and sold them, and had afterwards become wholly insolvent, is a
demand arising upon an implied contract, or one which may be sotreated
by a waiver of the alleged fraud in the conversion of the bonds.
2. It is, therefore, the proper subjectof set-off by the United States to a demand made by the general assignees in insolvency of the parties who had
thus converted tbe bonds to ther own use, for the price of certain property formerly belonging to the insolvents, and by their said general
assignees'sold to the United States.
3. The amount of the proceeds of the bonds, though not determined by judicial proceedings, was sufficiently liquidated to be the subject of set-off,
since it could be stated with certainty and interest be computed and
added.
4. And even if, prior to the passage of the act of March 3d, 1863, amending
the act establishing the Court of Claims, objection to the set-off existed
in the fact that the demand of the United States was unliquidated (assuming that to have been fact), none could exist subsequent to it; the
fifth section of that act covering this class of demands.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
A statute of the United States, passed March 3d, 1797,*
enacts that,
APPEAL

"When any revenue officer or other persons hereafter becoming indebted to the United States, by bond or otherwise, shall
become insolvent ... the debt due to the United States shall be
first satisfied, and the priority herely 'established shall be
deemed to extend to cases in which a debtor not having sufficient property to pay all his debts, shall make a voluntary
assignment thereof.
as to cases in which an act of legal
bankruptcy shall be committed."

And a statute of March 3d, 1863,t amending the act establishing the Court of Claims enacts:
"SECTION 3. That said court, in addition to the jurisdiction
now conferred by law, shall also have jurisdiction of all set-offs,
counter-claims, claims for damages, whether liquidated or un*1 Stat. at Large, 515.

f" 12 Id. 765.

ALLEN V. UNITED STATE9.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

liquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the goverpment, against any person making claim against the government in said court; and upon the trial of any such cause, it
shall'hear and determine such claim or demand both fbr and
against eh'government and claimant," &c.
These statufes being in force, Russell, Majors & Waddell,
partners in business, being at the time wholly insolvent,
executed and delivered, in Jfifua ry, 1861, to one Allen and
a certain Massey, two deeds of assignment, conveying all
their property in trust for the benefit of their creditors. In
November following, the claimants sold to the United States
a portion of the property thus conveyed, consisting of wagons
and oxen, for a sum exceeding $112,000. And the quartermaster of the. United Statesi who acted as agent of the government in the purchase, gave to them certificates that the
bills were "correct and just, and that the articles had been
accounted for on his property return." Of the sum mention'ed, only a part was paid; leaving a balance amounting
to $71,491, of which paymept was refused.
Thereupon Allen and Massey filed their petition in the
Court of Claims, to obtain payment of that balance.
It appeared from the findings of the Court of Claims, that
at the date of the assignments, Russell, Majors & Waddell
were indebted to the United States in the sum of 870,000
or thereabouts, for certain Indian trust bonds belonging to
the Lnited States, which they had illegally procured and
sold, and the proceeds of 'which they had applied to their
own use, and it was by reason of this indebtedness that the
payment to the claimants of the above mentioned balance
was refused.
The Court of Claims held that the United States were entitled to priority of payment out of the proceeds of the
property assigned by Russell, Majors & Waddell, under the
trust deeds, and to set off so much of the indebtedness of
that firm to them, as would be equal to the amount claimed
and proved; and accordingly dismissed the petition. Hence
the present aupeal.

Dec. 1872.]

ALLEN V.

'UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. James -Hughes,for the appellants:
1. The findings of the Court of Claims show affirmatively
that the claim which was set off against the appellants'
vouchers, was an unliquidated and disputed claim which the
government had never established, nor prosecuted to judgment, against Russell, Majors & Waddell, the peculiar character of which was such, that it could not be paid and
adjusted by the claimants acting as trustees under the
assignment.
2. It was competent for the United States to waive their
right of priority of payment ander the deeds of assignmenf,
and the purchase of the property and delivery of the formal
vouchers sued upon, constitute such waiver.
Mr. G. _H. Williams, Attorney-General; Messrs. C. H. Hill,
and TTr .McMichael, Assistant Attorneys- General, contra:
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Among the cases in which the United States are entitled,
by act of March 3d, 1797, to priority in the payment of
debts due to them over debts fo other creditors, is the case
where the debtor, not having sufficient property to pay his
debts, makes a voluntary assignment of the property he has
for their payment. Of the c'reditovs of Russell, Majors &
Waddell, the United States are therefore entitled to be preferred in the payment of their demand out of the proceeds
of the property in the hands of the claimants, the property
not being subject at the date of the assignments to any specific charge or lien. This preference the claimants cannot
disregard in the aistribution of the proceeds without making
themselves personally liable for the amount payable on the
demand of the United States.* If they could recover the
amount claimed in the present suit, they would be required
immediately to pay it over to the United States on the debt
of the assignors, after deducting the expenses of its collection. This is, therefore, a case in which the demand of the
* United States r. Clark, 1 Paine, 629.
VOL. XVII.

14

ALLEV V.'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

United States would be allowed as a'set-off against the claim
of the assignors, independent of the statute of March 3d,
1863, amending the act establishing the Court of -laims.
The demand being for the proceeds of certain Indian trust
bonds unlawfully converted by Russell, Majors & Waddell,
to their own use, is one arising upon .an implied contract, oi
may be so treated by the waiver of the alleged fiaud in the
conversion of the bonds.. Although the amount of theproceeds has not been determined by judicial proceedings, it
can be stated with certainty, and the. interest can be added
by computation. The demand is ttberefore the proper subject of set-off in a suitfor the recovery by the claimants of
the amount due upon a sale to the United States of property
hield by them under the .deeds of assignment,
If the objection urged by counsel of the claimants to the
allowance of the set-off, that the demand against Russell,
Majors & Waddell is unliquidated, would have been entitled
to consideration, supposing such to be the character of the
demand, independent of the statute mentioned, it is not entitled to any since the passage of thdit statute. The third
section of the statute is broad enough to authorize the Court
of Claims, in suits against the United. States, to hear and
,determine demands of the gov.ernment of every kind against
the claimant, or those whom the claimant represents, whether liquidated or unliquidate.d, and to set off against the
claim in suit the amount found in favor of the United States
upon such hearing and determination.
There is. nothing in the fact that the quartermaster, who
acted as agent of the United States in the purchase of the
wagons and oxen from the claimants, gave to them ,certificates of the correctness of their bills, which constitutes in
any respect a ,waivtr on the part of the United 8tates of
their. right of priority of payment, or even looks in that
direction.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

