Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. JOY.

211

Statement of the case.

-OLDIW V. JOY.
1. The treaty of the 29tri'December, 1835, between the United States and
the Cherokee Indians, was not made in virtue of the act of 28th of May,
1830, authorizing an "exchange" of lands west of the Mississippi, for
the territory claimed or occupied by any tribe of Indians within the
limits of any State or Territory, but was made under the treaty-making
power vested by the Constitution in the President and Senate.
2. The Indian tribes are capable of taking as owners in fee simple lands by
purchase where the United States in forim, and for a valuable and adequate consideration, so sell them to them.
3. Such sale is properly made by a treaty.
4. The above-mentioned treaty of 29th December, 1835, made such a sale to
the Cherokee Indians of t~e lands west of the Mississippi, known as
the " Cherokee Neutral Lands," and the fact and validity of the sale
have been recognized by Congress through appropriations made in execution of the treaty making it.
5. The cession to the United States by the Cherokees, in the treaty of, June
19th, 1866, of the said Neutral Lands owned by them as aforesaid, in
trust that the United States should sell them and hold the proceeds for
the benefit of the said Indians, was -a lawful cession and trust, and in
accordance with the policy and practice of the government.
6. It did not amount to an "abandonment" of the lands; and therefore
cannot raise a question whether the lands reverted to the United States
in pursuance of a condition inserted in the patent, that the lands should
reiert to the government, if the Ch'erokees abandoned them; assuming
that such a condition was lawful and of any effect, a matter not conceded.
7. Assuming that either this provision, in the patent or the extent to which
the Cherokees joined the rebel confederacy in the late rebellion amounted
to any abandonment, the United States, the grantors, alone could take
advantage of the breach of condition.
8. Their acceptance of the lands in trust, to sell them for the benefit of the
Cherokees, condoned the breach of condition if there was one.
9. The supplemental article 9f April 27th, 1868, to the already-mentioned
treaty of Junej,19th, 1866, was valid; and the sale and patent made to
one Joy pursuant to its purpose passed a good title to the said Joy;
though the treaty did not convey, propriovigore, the lands meant to be
sold, though it required officers of the United States to do certain acts
before the sale could be consummated, and though the contract of sale
to Joy was signed before the treaty was promulgated.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas;
the case being thus:
Prior to 'the year 1817 the Cherokee Indians all resided

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup., Ct.

Statement of the case.

on the east of the Mississippi; largely in Georgia. By treaties of theyear named, and of 1819,4. the tribe was divided
into two bodies, one of which remained where they were,
east of the Mississippi; and the other settled themselves
upon U nited States land in the country on the Arkansas
and White Rivers. The government being desirous to get
the entire tribe fo the west of t-e Mississippi River, treaties
were made by the United States, May 6th, 1828, and February 14th, 1838,t with this western part of the tribe, by
which the United States agreed to "possess" them as well
as those of their brethren who still resided.in States east
of the Mississippi, and to guarantee to them all forever
7,000,000 acres of land west of the Arkansas. But the part
of the tribe east of the river did not largely emigrate.
On the 28th of May, 1830, Congress passed an actT entitled " An act to provide for an exchange of-lands with the
Indians, residing in any of the States or Territories, and for
their. removal west of the Mississippi River." The first and
second sections of the act authorized the President, of the
United States to exchanqe certain lands west of 'the Mississippi River with any tribe or nation of Indians residing
within the limits of any of the States or TerritorieS, and
with which the United States had existing treaties, for the
whole or any portion of the territory claimed or occupied
by such Indians. The third section of the act was in these
words:
"And be it further enacted, that in the making of any such
exchange or exchanges, it shall and may be lawful for the President solemnly to assure the tribe or nation with which the exchange is made, that the United States will forever secure and
guarantee to them and their h.eirsor successors, the country
so exchanged with them, and if they prefer it, that the United
States will cause a patent or grant to be made and exQcuted to
them for the same; Provided always that such lands shall revert
to the United States if the Indians become extinct or abandon
the same.",7 Stat. at Large, 156, 195.

I

b. 811, 414.

14 Id. 411.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. JfOY.
Statement of the case.

Afterwards, on the 29th of December, 1835, and while this
act was in fill force-the United States, being in possession
of a certain 800,000 acres of land west of the Mississippi,
known as the "Neutral Lands"* (part of the cession made
by France to us April 30th, 1803,t originally occupied by
the Osage tribe, but of all their right in which the said tribe
had in 18251 made a cession to the United States)-the
President negotiated a treaty with the. Cherokees.ยง
The treaty contains these provisions:
"ARTICLE 1. The Cherokee nation hereby cede, relinquish,
and convey to the United States all the lands owned, claimed,
or possessed by them cast of the Mississippi River . . .for and
in consideration of the sum of $5,000,000, to be expended, paid,
and invested in the manner stipulated and agreed upon in the
following articles, &e.
"ARTcLE 2. Whereas by the treaty of May 6th, 1828, and
the supplemental treaty thereto of February 14th, 1833, with
the Cherokees west of the Mississippi,the United States guaranteed and secured to be conveyed by patent to the Cherokee nation of Indians the folloving tract of country [described as in
the treaty of 1833, and then quoting the following words from
the treaty:] 'which will make 7,000,000 of acres. . . . In
addition . . . the United States further guarantee to the Cher-

okee nation a perpetual outlet west, and a free and unmolested
use of all the country west of the western boundary of said
7,000,000 acres, as far west as the sovereignty of the United
States and their right of soil extend.' . .

.

And whereas it is

apprehended by the Cherokees that in the above cession there
is not contained a sufficient quantity of land for the accommodation of the whole nation on their removal west of the Mississippi, the United States, in consideration of the sum of $500,000,
therefore, hereby covenant and. agree to convey to the said Indians and their descendants, by patent in fee simple, the following
additional tract of land [described], estimated to contain 800,000
acres of land.
* The name, ":Neutral Lands," seems to have been given in consequence
of the tract having been originally one interposited between the white inhabitants of Missouri and the more wild and fierce portion of the Osages

on the west.
t 8 Stat. at Large, 200.

$

7 Id. 240.

lb. 478.

214

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"ARTICLE 3. The United States also agree that the lands
above ceded by the treaty'of February 14tb, 1833, including the
outlet and those ceded by this treaty, shall all be includedin one
patent executed to the Cherokee nation of Indians by the Presidentof
the United States, according to the provisions of the act of May 28th,
1830."
By an act making appropriations "for carrying into effect
certain Indian treaties," approved July 2d, 1836,* Congress
appropriated:
"For the amount stipulated to be paid for the lands ceded in
the first article of the treaty with the Cherokees of the 29th of
December, 1835, d~ducting the cost of the land to be procured
for them west of the Mississippi River, under the second afticle
of said treaty, $4,500,000."
On the 31st December, 1838, the President, referring to
the already mentioned treaties of May 6th, 1828, February
14th, 1833, and December 29th, 1835, and professing to act
"in execution of the agreements and stipulations contained
in the said several treaties," issued a patent giving and
granting the 800,000 acres of land described in the treaty
of 1835," unto the said Cherokee nation,". . . to have and to
hold the same, together with all the rights, privileges, and
appurtenances thereunto belonging, unto the said Cherokee
nation forever.
The grant, however, which included a large body of lands
not part of the iNeutral Lands, or conveyed under the treaty
of 1835, was made
"Subject to the condition provided by the act of Congress of
28th May, 1830, and which condition is that the lands hereby
granted shall revert to the United States, if the said Cherokees
become extinct or abandon the same."
On the breaking out of the rebellion the Cherokee Indians
generally favored it. Some of them actually joined the
rebel army, though a portion of these afterwards deserted
and entered the army of the United States.
* 5 Stat. at Large, 73.

Dec, 1872.]

H OLDEN V. JOY.
Statement of the case.

On the 5th of July, 1862, Congress, by its Indian Appro.
priation Act of that year, provided :*
"That in cases where the tribal organization of* any Indian
tribe shall be in actual hostility to the United States, the President is hereby authorized to declare all treaties with such tribe
to be abrogated by such tribe, if, in his opinion, the same can be
done consistently with good faith, and legal and national obligations."
This power thus intrusted to the Presideit he did not'
use, and the treaties with the Cherokee Indians remained
in force, notwithstanding the rebellion.
On the 3d of March, 1863,t by :the fou'rth section of the
Indian Appropriation Act, the President was authorized to
enter into negotiations with various Indian tribes for the
purchase of the lands occupied by them in the State of
Kansas. The section was thus:
"And be it further enacted, that the President of the United
States be, and he is hereby authorized to enter into treaties with
the several tribes of Indians respectively, now residing in the
State of Kansas, providing for the extinction of their titles to
lands held in common, within said State, and for the removal of
such Indians of said tribes as hold their lands in common, to
suitable localities elsewhere within the territorial limits of the
United States, and outside the limits of any State."
After the close of the rebellion, the act of March 3d, 1863,
being still in force, the President of the United States entered into negotiations with the Cherokee Indians for that
part of their laud situate in the State of Kansas. -The result of such negotiations was a treaty known as that of July
19th, 1866. This treaty, which is entitled "Articles of agreement and convention," is voluminous, and relates to many
subjects. Its preamble recites that "existing treaties betweehlthe United States and the Cherokee nation are deemed
insufficient," and that "the contracting parties agree as follows." Article seventeen provides thus:
"The Cherokee nation cedes in trust to the United States
*12 Star. at Large, 628.

-tIb. 793.

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
the parcel of land in the State of Kansas, which was sold to the
Cherokees inder provisions of the second article of the treaty
of 1835, and also that strip of the land ceded to the nation by
the fourth article of said treaty, which is included, in the State
of Kansas, and the Cher6kees consent that said land may be included in the limits and jurisdiction of the said State.
"The lands herein ceded shall be surveyed as the public lands
of the United States are surveyed under the direction of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, and shall be appraised
by two disinterested persons, one to be designated by the Cherokee National Council, and one by the Secretary of the Interior, and in case of disagreement, by a third person to be mutually selected by the aforesaid appraisers. The appraisement
to be not less than an average of one dollar and a quarter per
acre, exclusive of improvements.
"And the Secretary of the Interior shall from time to time,
as such surveys and appraisements are approved by him, after
due advertisement for sealed bids, sell such lands to the highest
bidder for cash, in parcels not exceeding one hundred and sixty
*-acres,and at not less than the appraised value, provided, that
whenever there are improvements of the value of $50 made on
the land not being mineral, and owned and personally occupied
by any person for agricultural purposes at the date of the signing hereof, such persons so owning and in person residing on
such improvements, shall after due proof made under such regulatiofis as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, be entitled to buy at-the appraised value the smallest quantity of land
in legal subdivisions, which will include his improvements, not
exceeding in the aggregate one hundred and sixty acres, the
expenses of the sale and improvement to be paid by the Secretary out of the proceeds of sale of said land. [provided that
nothing in this article shall prevent the Secretary of the Interior from selling the whole of said lands not occupied by adtual
settlers at the date of the ratification of this treaty, not exceed.
ing one hundred and sixty acres to each person entitled to preemption under the pre-emption laws of the United States, in a
body, to any responsible party for cash, for a sum not less than
one dollar per acre."]*
The proviso in brackets was npt in the treaty as originally signed, but
another, in some respects less extensive, for which the one inbrackets was
substituted.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. JOY.

Statement of the case.

The twenty-ninth article of the treaty read thus:
"The sum of $10,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary
to pay the expenses of the delegates and representatives of the
Cherokees invited by the government to visit Washington for
the purpose of making this treaty, shall be paid by the United
States on the ratification of this treaty."
By an act passed on the 29th of July, 1866,* this provision
was made:
"To enable the Secretary of the Interior to pay the reasonable costs and expenses actually paid or incurred by the delegates of the Southern Cherokees in coming to and going from
Washington, and during their stay in and about the negotiation
pending the confirmation of treaties with the Indian tribes, a
sum not exceeding $10,000. Provided, that sum shall be refunded to the treasury from the proceeds of the sales of the Cherokee
.NeutralLands in Kansas."
The-twelfth article of the treaty, section one, read thus:
"After the ratification of-this treaty, and as soon as may be
deemed practicable by the SeCretary of the Interior, and prior
to the first session of said council, a census or enumeration of
each tribe, lawfully resident in said Territory, shall be taken
under the direction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who,
for that purpose, is hereby authorized to designate and appoint
competent persons, whose compensaiion shall be fixed by the
Secretary of the Interior, and paid by the United States."
The Indian Appropriation- Act of 1866t made this provision :
"For this amount, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
enable the Secretary of the Interior to cause a census of each
tribe to be taken, under the provisions of the twelfth article of
the treaty of July 19th, 1866,-52500."
The twenty-eighth article of the treaty read thus:
"The United States hereby agree to pay for provisions and
clothing furnished the army, under Ap-p6the-le-ha-la-le, in the
winter of 1861-62, not to exceed the sum of $10,000 on the ac*. 14 Stat. at Large, 326.

-f Ib. 499.

'HoLD.EN V. JOY.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.
count to be ascertained and settled by the Secretary of the Interior."
The thirtieth article thus:
"The United States agree to pay to the proper claimants, all
losses of property by missionaries, or missionary societies, resulting from their being ordered'or driveu from the country by
United States agents, and from their property being taken and
occupied or destroyed by United States troops, not exceeding in
the-aggregate $20,000, to be ascertained by the Secretary of the
Interior."
The Indian Appropriation Act of Congress, just mentioned,
contains appropriations*
"For provisions and clothing" furnished the army unde'r Ap.
pothe-le-ha-la-le in the winter of 1861-62, per twenty-eighth article of the treaty of July 19th, 1866, $10,000.
"1
For'paying of losses of property by missionaries or missionary societies, &c., treaty July 19th, 1866, thirtieth article, $20,000."
These and other actst appropriated in the aggregate
$84,825 to carry the treaty into effect.
After this treaty of 1866 was ratified and proclaimed, Mr.
Harlan,-while Secretary of the Interior, made an agreement
with the American Emnigrant Company for the sale of the
Cherokee Neutral Lands to theni. By this agreement Mr.
Harlan "agrees to sell, and hereby does sell," to the company, the whole tract of 800,000 acres, known as the " Cherokee Neutral Lands," with the restrictions set forth in -the
seventeenth article of the treaty of 1866, at $1 per acre, payable -in instalments.
"The United States agree to cause said lands to be surveyed
as public lands are usually surveyed, in one year from the date
hereof, and on the payment of $50,000, to set apart for said
company a quantity of said lands, in one body, in as compact
form as practicable, extending directly across said tract of land,
from east to west, and containing a number of acres equal to
the number of dollarsthen paid, and from time to time to convey the same by patent, to said company or its assigns, when*14 Stat. at Large, 499.

t See 1b. 513; 16 Id. 359, 569.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. JOY.
Statement of the case.

ever afterward requested so to do, in such quantities, by legal
subdivisions, as said company shall indicate; and on the payment of each additional instalment, with interest as herein stipulated, to set apart for said company an additional tract of land,
in compact form, where said company may request, but extending directly across the said Neutral Lands from east to west,
containing a number of acres equal to the number of dollars of
principal thus paid, and to convey the same to said company or
its assigns, as hereinbefore described; and so on, from time to
time, until the whole shall be paid; and no conveyance of any
part of said lands shall be made until the same shall be paid for
as provided in this agreement, but said company may make
payments at earlier periods than those indicated, or pay the
whole, principal and interest, and receive titles of tracts of land
accordingly, if they shall so elect."
Mr. Browning, the successor in office of Mir. Harlan, disapproved of the sale before it had been consummated, and
"agreed," October 9th, 1867, with a certain Joy to sell the
same lands to him. This matter attracted the attention of
Congress. The House of Representatives accordingly, on
the lth of December, 1867, passed a resolution calling on
Secretary Browning for information with regard to the sale.
The secretary answered the inquiries.
The conclusion of Congress being that the original treaty
of 1866 had not made such provisions as would produce for
the Indians the greatest amount of money, the Indian commissioners were summoned a second time to Washington.
A supplemental treaty was now made (April 27th, 1868),
between the United States and the Cherokees. This treaty
refers to the sales to the Emigrant Company and to Joy;
and recites that for the purpose of harmonizing all interests
the company was about to assign their contract to Joy, and
agrees that this shall be done and that Joy shall cancel and
relinquish his contract made with Mr. Browuing.
It then agrees that whenever Joy shall have cancelled and
relinquished this contract with Mr. Browning, and shall
have accepted the assignment of this contract with the Emigrant Company and entered into a contract with the Secretary of the Interior to assume and perform the obligations

[Sup. Ct.

!=[OLDEN V. JOY.
Statement of the case.

of the company under it, the contract thus assigned, with
some modifications as to the time, &c., of payments, shall
stand. This treaty was proclaimed June 10th, 1868.
Two da,s before the ralification, that is to say on the 8th of
Juie, 1868, Mr. Browning and Joy entered into a new contract, reciting Joy's acceptance of the Emigrant Company's
obligation (which in terms Joy assumed); reciting further
the stirrender and cancellation of Joy's old contract, and
Mr. Browning, as secretary, agreeing that he would carry
out and execute all the provisions of the Emigrant Company's contract, except so far as modified by the supplemental treaty, and "cause patents of said lands to be'issued
to the said Joy or his assigns in accordance with the terms
I
and provisions thereof."
By the Indian Appropriation Act of July 27th, 1868,*
Congress enacted"That the sum of $10,356 be appropriated from any money in
the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to enable the Secretary
of the Interior to defray the expenses of the Cherokee delegation to Washington, District of Columbia, during the year 1867,
Provided ,that this sum be refunded to the Treasury of the United
States out of that portion of the proceeds of the sale of the Cherokee
.NeutralLands applicableto Cherokee nationalpurposes."
Afterwards, by the Indian Appropi'iati-n Act of 1871,t
Congress made certain provisos, ih the following terms :
"Provided that-hereafter no Indian nation or tribe within the
territory of the United States shall be acknowledged or recognized as an independent nation, tribe, or power, with whom the
United States may contract by treaty; Provided further, tfiat.
nothing herein contained shall be construed to in' alidate or im-'
pair the obligations of any treaty heretofore lawvtully made and
ratified with any such India'nnation or tri~bOn. the 31st of October, 1868-that is to say, after the
treaty of 1868 (the_ supplemental .treaty), bad been proclaimed, and after the act of Jtly_ 27th, 18Q8, had been
passed-Joy consummated his piurchbse of the Cherokee
*15 Stat. at Large, 223.

t i6 id,

666.

Dec. 1872.]

HqOLDEN V. JOY.
Statement of the case.

Neutral Lands, and the same were patented to
assignee.

ia or his

At the time when Joy's purchase was thus made, the
Indian Intercourse Acts (acts of 1802 and 1834) provided :*
"That no purchase, grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands,
or of any title or claim thereto, from any Indian natioii or tribe
of Indians, shall be of any validity in law-or equity, unless the
same shall be made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution."
Another law, also, passed January 9th, 1837,t enacted:
ยง 1. "That all moneys received from the sale of lands, that have
been or may be hereafter ceded to tMe United States by..ndian tribeiby treaties, providing for the" investment or payment to the
Indians, parties thereto, of the proceeds of the lands ceted-.to
them respectively, after deducting the expenses of surV'by and
sale, any sum stipulated to be advanced, and the experses of f ulfilling any engagement therein, shall be paid into the trefa"ry
of the United States, in the same manner that moneys received
from the sale of public lands are paid into the treasury.
ยง 2. "That all sums that are or may be requird t 'u inve,,tzd
by said treaties are hereby appropriated in conformit-Yw!tif
them, and shall be drawn from the treasuryas other publicmoneys are drawn therefrom, under such -instructiofis as mar
from time to time be given by the President."
In this state of facts and of statutory law, one Holdenfiled a bill in the court below against Joy, setting tip that "a
title had accrued to him to enter a certain quarter-section ofa tract of the lands already mentioned, to wit, the NeutralLands, sold as abovesaid to Joy. The bill alleged that the
land claimed was, on the 12th of February, 1867, public
land, to which the Indian title had been extinguished; that
he, the complainant, having the qualifications of a preemptor, on that day settled upon it and took possession of
the same; that he had acquired the legal and equitable right
to enter the same at the proper land office under the pre* See 2 Stat. at Large, 143,

12; 4 Id. 730,

12.

t 5 Id. 13o5.

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[SLIP. Ct.

Statement of the chse.

emption laws; that he then made settlement for the purpose of entering it under the said laws, and then took
and had ever since had; and now hhd, open, notorious, adverse, exclusive, and rightful possession of the premises;
that at the time he took possession the tribe of Cherokee
Indians did not live in the State, ,and had not since lived
there; that no individual Indian of the tribe lived on or
near the premises, and that the tract was never settled upon
by any person until it was taken possession of by him, the
complainant; that he took possession of the land at the time
and had continued to occupy it, without any objection from
the tribe of Indians or any one of the members of the tribe;
that he was the head of a family and a citizen of the United
States, &c., &c.
He admitted, however, that there was no public survey of
the tract returned and approved until a later period; that no
plat or survey of the tract made by authority had ever been
returfied to the office of the register and receiver,' or to the
office of the Surveyor-General; that the only record of the
survey was in the office of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office; and that no instructions had ever been given to
the register and receiver respecting the tract by the Secretary of the Interior. But 1ie alleged that he had at all times
been and still was ready and willing to make proof before
the register and receiver of his settlement and improvement
upon the tracti and to pay therefor: the price of $1.25 per
acre, and that he had tendered such proof and payment, and'
that the register and receiver had, at all times, refused to
take such evidence or to accept pay for the land.
lHe averred that a right had thus accrued to him to enter
the said lands under the pre-emption laws of the United
States, and the grievance alleged was that the respondent
had commenced an action of ejectment against him for the
purpose of ejecting him from the land. He prayed an injunction against the ejectment, and for other relief.
The bill also set forth in considerable fulness what it alleged was the title claimed by the respondent, and averred
that there was no other authority of law for the issuing of

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. JOY.
Argument for the appellant.

the patent of the 31st of October, 1868, to the respondent,
under which he claimed the premises in controversy, than
the several patents, treaties, and contracts set forth and referred to in the bill of complaint;* the same essentially as
those mentioned in the preceding statement.
The respondent demurred: (1.) Because the facts set forth
in the bill did not constitute a cause of action. (2.) Because
they were not sufficient to entitle the complainant to any
relief in a court of equity. (3.). Because the bill, if true,
showed "thatthe complainant had a complete and adequate
remedy in a court of law.
The court below sustained the deniurrei', and dismissed
the bill, whereupon the complainant appealed to this court.
The case was elaborately argued by Messrs. William -Lawrence, of Ohio, and B. F. Butler, for the complainawt, aid by
.Messrs. B. -. Curtis and W. P. Hale, contra.
For the appellant:*
The treaty of 1835 was made in pursuance of the act of
Congress of 1830. It refers to that act specifically in its
third section, and proposes to proceed "according to the
.provisions" of it.t By the treaty, then, the eastern Cherokees "exchanged" their lands for a possessory right in common with the western ones, in the 7,000,000 acres, ii the
"outlet," iii "the neutral lands," and in $4,500,000 in
money. They acqui'ed no higher title-.than a possessory
right; the sort of right they gave up. They paid no money.
The United States received-,none, but did agree to pay out
of the treasury five millions less half a million. There was
an exchange of possessory rights; nothing else'. In pursuance of that treaty a patent-itas issued in accordance with
the act of 1830, and only on condition that the lands should
The introductory and first five subsequent points were made by Mr.
Lawrence, the sixth by 3Mr. Butler. All were elaborately argued, and with
a learned citation of authorities. A copy of Mr. Lawrence's brief (152 pp.
8vo.) is in the Law Library of Congress, chapter 18, No. 2.
t Supra, p. 214, top of the page.

HOLDEN V. JOY;

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for thb appellant.

"revert to the United States if the said Clerokees should
become extinct or abandon the lanids." Now, on the ratification of the treaty of July 19th, i866, by which the whole,
of the lands were given up to the United States, and the Secretary of the Interior authorized to sell, them all1 where not
occupied by actual settlers, the possessory right of the Cherokees was extinguished. On the ratification of the treaty
they." abandoned the lands." The lands reverted to the
United States and became open to pre-emption.
It will not be denied that Holden's claim is goo& if the
sale to Joy was not good. Was this sale then -good, or not so?

We maintain certain, legal propositions, any one 6f which,
if true, 4estroys the title of Joy:
1. An act 'of Congress is necessary before the treaty, survey,
selection of lands, receipt of payment therefor, or.the peiformance
of the treaty trust to sell can be executed.
That the treaty does not ex proprio vigore convey a fee
simple legal title to Joy is obvious. It is in form a mere
agreement, and should be construed to be no more; for if
it is to operate as a law inform, even for the pu'pose of anthorizing a sale, or. the acts necessary to survey the lauds,
and select and separate the three classes into which the
treaty divides them and receive payment, it operates on a
subject the'whole of which is intrusted to Congress by the
Constitution. Assuming that it will be construed hut as an
agreement, it cannot be execited without the aid of an act
of Congress passed for that purpose. This is settled by the
courts.*"
2. Joy has acquired no fee simple or legal title, because there is
no authority-by treaty or otherwise-to issue a patent. A patent
issued without authority of law, all will admit iq void; and
the courts may inquire into conflicting. claims. resting on
questions of law. The treaty of July 19th, 1866, is silent oi
the subject of a patent or of the mode in which the title
held by .the ,United States shall pass. 'The supplemental
treaty professes to ratify a contract on-file in the Department
SFoster & Elam v. Neilson, 2, Peters, 25,; United. States v. Arredondo,
6 Peters, 691.

Dec. 1872.]

.HOLDENV. JOY.
Argument for the appellant.

of the Interior. The most that can be claimed for the treaty
and the contract is that they gave an inchoate right.
3. The Cherokee treaty could not constitutionally impose the
official duties, or confer the official powers on executive officers
necessary to execute it, so as to convey a Zitle to lands.
These officers are created by acts of Congress for specific
purposes and their powers are defined and limited. The
treaty power cannot usurp legislative power or interrupt
and prevent the performance of duties imposed by the latter
power on officers whose offices are established by law. Each
power must move in its own orbit. Neither can do that
which would retard, impede, burden, or in any manner control the other.
Now, this treaty attempts to confer various powers on,
and require duties of, the Secretary of the Interior, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, &c. The performance
6f these duties are prerequisite to the issuing of a patent.
If they were unauthorized, no patent can issue by reason of
them. They could have no more effect than if performed
by a stranger.
4. The Cherokee treaty, so far as it stipulates for a disposition
of lands, is void, because in conflict with the act of July 22d, 1854,
and to the act of June 2d, 1862.
The former act* provides:
"That all the lands to which the Indian title has been or
shall be extinguished, within said Territories of Kansas and Nebraska, shall be subject to the operations of the Pre-emption
Act of 4th September, 1841."
The latter,t extending the provision to all lands of the
government, enacts in the broadest language, that"All the land belonging to the United States, to which the Indian
title has been or shall be extinguished,shall be subject to tl~e operation
of the Pre-emptionAct of the 4th of September, 1841; Provided, however, that when unsurveyed lands are claimed by pre-emption,
notice of the specific tracts shall be filed within six-months after
the survey has been made in the field."
* 10 Stat. at Large, 310,
VOL. XVIL.

t 12 Id. 413.

12.
15.

226

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

Whether this treaty of 1866 rest on a power given by the.
Constitution or on one given by acts of -Congress, the two
acts cited, which dedicated these lands to pre-emption settlement, are superior to it, and in case of a conflict are
supreme. The Constitution ordains thatccThe Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States."
These acts, being regulations respecting the territory
named, are of necessity "regulations" also of the treaty
power.
If it should. be conceded that the treaty power-the President and Senate-cannot be regulated in any respect; that
they are over and above all law; yet the Commissioner of
the General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interiormere statutory'officers--are not beyond the control of law.
The acts of 1854 and 1862 operated as a regulation of and
-restraint on their powers. If so, they could perfor. no duty
in opposition to these acts. For if this is not so, then the
treaty power can repeal the laws creating the.Interior Department and set up a land office of its own.
5. An Indian treaty which undertakes to dispose of the public
lands without the authority of an act of Congressis unconstitutional
,-and void.
The Constitution, in substantially the same form in which
it delegates express and exclusive powers to the President
afid to the Supreme Court, delegates to Congress the power,
as we have seen, "to dispose of the territory . . . belonging
to the United States."
No reason can be given to sustain the treaty power in an
attempt to destroy the authority of Congress to dispose of
the public lands, which will not equally sustain the treaty
power in an effort to annihilate the executive power of
pardon, appointments to office, to command the army, &c.,
and the power of this court to exercise its original juris,diction.
k6. The treaty wa. promulgated on the 10th of June, and Mr.

Dec. 1872.]

H OLDEN V. JOY.
Argument for the appellee.

Secretay -Browningsigned the contract upon the 8th, that is to say,
two days before its promulgation.
.Blessrs. B. R. Curtis and TV. P. tll, contra:
The treaty of 1835 was not negotiated by force of the act
of 1830. That treaty is not one to lay off a district west of
the MississIppi, and "exchange" it for a district or lands
east of the Mississippi. It is a treaty to purchase the lands
of the Cherokees for $5,000,000, and a further agreement (o
sell the Neutral Lands to the Cherokees, 800,000 acres, for
the consideration of $500,000 to be paid therefor. Neither
of those objects was within the act of 1830, or authorized
thereby. The treaty was made under the treaty-making
power, by the President and Senate, and by and under that
power alone. That Congress so regarded the treaty is shown
by the Appropriation Act of July 2d, 1836,* where Congress
ratified and interpreted the treaty, so far as Congress could
ratify or interpret a treaty. The act refers both to the article
by which the eastern lands were bought for $5,000,000, and
to the article by which the neutral or western lands were
sold for $500,000. Both the articles are designated in that
act by Congress, and one is treated as a purchase, and the
other as a sale. The Indians, indeed, paid no money. They
had no occasion to pay any money; they bought the land
of their debtor, and they extinguished so much of the debt
as the price of the land amounted to.
The United States, as already said, stipulated, by the
treaty of 1835, to sell these lands, and make a valid'title in
fee simple to the Cherokee nation of Indians. Nothing was
said in that article of the treaty (and certainly nothing can
lbe implied) concerning any conditions which were to be inserted in the patent. Nevertheless, when the patent was
issued, it embraced not merely, the Neutral Lands, but other
large tracts of lands, which were to be conveyed independent of these Neutral Lands. And it contained two conditions; that the land should revert to the United States provided the nation should become extinct, or the land should
* .See sujpra, p. 214.

'HOLDEN

V. JOY.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

be abandoned by the nation., Now, the first of these conditions is one which would be silently engrafted on the grant
independent of any express words. When there is a grant
and the grante and his heirs become extinct the land
escheats to the state, whether the grantee be an individual
or a body of individuals. Therefore, we need not quarrel
with the first condition. But.the other condition-that in
regard to the abandonment of the land-is one, which if it
were necessary, we could show was wholly unwarranted by
the article in tWe treaty, which stipulated absolutely-not
conditionally, but absolutely-to make a title in fee simple.
But the matter is unimportant, because there has been no
abandonment. A conveyance to a trustee to sell for the
benefit of the grantor is not an abandonment.
Whether the President could have issued his proclamation,
and declared the treaty with the Cherokees terminated by
their having gone over to the rebels, we need not consider.
He never issued any proclamation in regard to the treaties
in force with the Cherokees. On the contrary, in the year
1866, immediately after the war, this treaty of June 19th
was made with the Cherokee nation. And the -United
States never did insist upon the prior hostility of the Cherokees, nor attempt to insist upon it, for any purpose. Now, if
it be a condition lawfully inserted in this patent, that if the
Cherokees should- abandon the lands, they shall revert to
the United States, it is a condition subsequent, and no one
but the United States can take advantage of it. If it be a
lawful condition, the United States could enter through its
officers for the breach of that condition, or the United States
might waive the breach, and release the condition itself
And by this treaty 'they have done both; because they have
accepted a cession of those lands from the Cherokees in trust
to sell them for .thebenefit of the Cherokees. After this,
manifestly not the United States themselves could take advantage of a breach of this condition, or insist on its existence for any purpose. A fortiori, a mere stranger to the
title could not do so.
So the title stood, ivhen the treaty of 1866 was made. Now

Dec.1872.]

HOLDEN V. JOY.
Argument for the appellee.

consider how far, and with what effect, Congress has interposed in reference to this treaty of 1866, and the supplemental article of 1868, by which this title was acquired.
We see in the first place, the negotiation of the original
treaty; the recognition of that fact by Congress, in making
an appropriation for the expenses, and in making other appropriations under the treaty, specifying the articles to carry
out what was promised in the treaty by those articles. We
find also that in doing this, Congress has expressly provided,
that although these moneys are to be thus advanced out of
the treasury, they are to be reimbursed from the, sales of
"neutral lands." What neutral lands? Only these. What
sales? Those provided for in the treaty. The principal treaty
bore date on the 19th day of July, 1866. The provisions
just referred to, for the payment of the expenses of the commissioners and other obligations, applied to expenses accruing in the negotiation of that treaty. But the commhissioners had again been summoned to negotiate le supplemental
article; they had come here some time in the year 1867,
having concluded their labors in April, 1868, and then a
provision is nmade by an act of the 27th of July, 1868, to pay
their expenses. This last act contains the proviso:
"That this sum be refunded to the treasury of the United
States out of that portion of the proceeds of the sale of the Cherokee
Ncutral[Landsin Kansas,applicable to Cherokee nationalpurposes."
The additional article of the treaty was concluded on the
27th of April, 1868. It was proclaimed the 10th of June,
1868. So that, on the 27th of July, 1868, when Congress
made this provision for deducting the amount of that appropriatiou out of the proceeds of the sales of the Cherokee
Neutral Lands, it could refer to nothing except this very sale
to Joy, which is now under consideration; because, that supplemental article had a provision that a contract should be
made by Joy to perform all that the land company had
agreed to perform, with -some modifications, and that the
lands should be patented to him under that contract, as fast as
they should be paid for.

HoLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the appellee.

So far as to the legislative history of this title. We pass
now to the pretensions which are set up here on the part of
the counsel of the appellant.
The learned counsel rely on several "legal propositions,"
which they seek to maintain.
It is said in the first and second places, that an act of Congress is necessary before the performance of the treaty trust
can be performed; that this treaty does not ex proprio vigore
convey any title to Joy; that it does not contain any patent

to Joy, nor provide for the issue of any to him. But it is
not consistent with the nature of the transaction that it
should so convey, or contain such a patent. It contains a
cession of the land to the United States, and that cession is
made to the United States in trust to sell. A sale had been
agreed upon between Joy and the Secretary of the Interior,
at the time when the supplemental article was negotiated.
That sale by the Secretary of the Interior, under the trust,
to Joy, is described and ratified and approved of in this supplemental article. Now, to say that this supplemental article
does not convey the lands to Joy, is to state what is true but
entirely consistent with what the treaty provides for, namely,
that the secretary was to convey them to him, by patent, in
the name of the United States, in whom the legal title had
been vested by the treaty.
It is further insisted, in the third place, that the validity
of these proceedings cannot be maintained because the Secretary of the-Interior, and the Commissioner of the Land
Office, are required to do something; that the treaty is invalid because these public officers are to do something under
the treaty. It would be an unusual sort of treaty, under
which some public officer was not to do something. If the
President and the Senate have the power to make such a
treaty as this, and the stipulations in the treaty are what this
court must consider them to be-appropriate stipulationsthen is it to avoid this treaty that the Secretary of the Interior is to perform 6ertain acts, and the Commissioner of the
Land Office certain other acts? Congress, in 1887, legislated
generally on this class of subjects, nainely, cessions by Indians

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN v. JoY.
Argument for the appellee.

in trust.* They speak of them as having been theretofore
made; and they show the expectation that they will be thereafter'made; they speak of surveys, and the expenses of surveys, of the sales and the expenses of the sales, and provide
how they shall be taken out of the proceeds. Certainly; if
there were to be surveys and sales, and other expenses, there
must be somebody t6 make surveys, and somebody to make
the sales, and somebody to incur the expenses, all of which is
plainly contemplated, in this act of Congress, regulating these
cessions in trust. And why not the Secretary of the Interior?
All these Indian afhirs belong to his department. He is the
appropriate officer to have the supervision over this subject,
and see that the stipulations of this treaty are carried out
fairly and effectually on behalf of the contracting parties.
Why should he not be selected under the treaty-making
power? It is argued that the treaty cannot appoint an
officer. That may be true; but if the treaty finds him
already appointed and charged with a class of duties, one of
which, under the treaty, falls naturally and properly under
his office, why, in the name of all that is practicable, should
he be not charged with the duty of performing it? The
Commissioner of the General Land Office was also to do
something. The law of Congress foresaw that the commissioner would be called upon to do something under treaties
of this kind, and accordingly an act was passed on the 8th
of April, 1864, which requires him to have the necessary
surveys made. On the 28th day of July, 1866, another act
was passed, making an appropriation for the expenses of
these and other similar surveys. This treaty was dated in
April, and was promulgated in June. The act contains this
provision:
"For surveying Indian and other reservations under treaty
stipulations at not exceeding $15 per mile from boundaries, $10
for townships, and $8 per mile for sections; $50,000."
We got the money, then, to make these surveys by the
will of Congress, and by the act of the 8th of April, 1864,t
*See sum'a, p. 221.

t 13 Stat. at Large,41.

H OLDEN V. JOY.

I

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the appellee.

already referred to, will be found a law providing that when
it should. become necessary to survey Indian lands, they
shall be surveyed under the Commissioner of Public Lands
in the same manner that public lands of the United States
are surveyed, which is precisely what they stipulated for in
this treaty, viz., that these surveys were to be made under
the direction of the commissioner in the manner the surveys
of the -United States lands are made.
Then in the fourth place it is said, 'that at the date when
the appellant entered upon this land, the land was public land
of the United States, subject to pre-emption. That is what the
opposite counsel undertake to maintain. If they can maintain that, they can succeed. If they cannot maintain that,
they must fail. And the inquiry is, whether they can?
The counsel argue that by an act passed on the 22d of
July, 1854, there is a provision, which they consider applicable to this case,
"That all the lands to which the Indian title has been or shall
be extinguished within said Territories of Nebraska and Kansas,
shall be subject to the operations of the Pre-emption Act of the
4th of September, 1841, under the -conditions, restrictions, and
stipulations therein mentioned."
Now, turning to the Pre-emption Act thus referred to,*
we find,
"That fiom and after the passage of this act, every person,.
being the head of a family, or widow, &c., &c., having filed his
declarations, who since the 1st day of June, 1840, has made, or
shall hereafter make a settlement in person, on the public lands
to which the Indian title had been at the time of such settlement extinguished."
There are two requirements, and both of them are esseutial. First, that it should be public lands of the United
States; and secondly, that the Indian title should be extinguished.
IThese were not public lands of the United States. The
โข 1,

* 5 Stat. at Large, 455.

Dec.1872.]

H OLDEN V). JOY.

Argument for the appellee.

United States bad sold them to the Cherokee nation of Indians for a valuable and adequate consideration years before,
covenanting that they should have a good title in fee simple,
and that title remained in the Indians down to the time
when the treaty of 1866 was negotiated. That treaty either
took effect or it did not take effect. If it did not take effect,
the title remained in the Indians. If the objections which
have been taken here were sufficient to show that that entire
seventeenth article of the treaty was void, certainly it cannot
be both void and valid; valid to transfer the legal title to
the United States, and void to declare the sole purpose of
the conveyance. If void, the title remained, as already said,
in the Indians. If valid, the legal title passed to the Uited
States; but the title of the Indianswas not extinguished within the
meaning qf this Pre-emption Act. If a man conveys land to a
trustee in trust to sell it, he pa~ses his legal title to such
trustee, but he does not extinguish his title. He is still the
beneficial owner of that land, and continues to be so until
the trust has been executed, and the title is passed- in conformity to it; and so it must be here.
So far from its being true, that there is anything illegal in
the nature of this trust or the manner in which it is declared
by an Indian treaty, so long ago as the year 1837, it was so

much a recognized part of the policy and .practice of this
government to accept cessions of Indian lands in trust by a
treaty, and to sell them and hold the proceeds f6r the benefit
of the Indians, that the subject is regulated by a general
law of Congress; a law passed on the 9th of January, 1837
[see the act quoted supra, p. 221]. The act makes a regulation of this general subject, recognizing the fact that such
treaties had been theretofore made, and were expected to be
thereafter made; and pointing out that after deducting from
the proceeds of sales provided and stipulated for by such
treaties, the expenses, the balance was to be put into the
treasury of the United States in the same manner as the
proceeds of sales of pqblic lauds.
. Indeed, somuch was it a matter of course, that such trea-.
ties should be made, so much were they expected to be made

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellee.

frequently, and sojust and proper was it considered that they
should be made and their stipulations carried into effect, that
in the latter clause of the section, as will be seen on reference to it,* there is a general sweeping appropriation covering eLverything which should be stipulated by such treaties;
an instance of legislation for the appropriation of moneys in
advance of treaties such as cannot be found anywhere else
in the history of this government. So that if there is a distinction to be made between treaties of this character and
designed for this purposeadd other treaties, they are placed
by this legislation of Congress even higher than any other
class of treaties.
Then, it is said, that an Indian treaty cannot vest in an
individu.al a valid title to Indian lands of which the United
States had the ultimate fee subject to the usual Indian title
of occupancy. Why not? "Because the Constitution says
that Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations concerning the territory and
property of the United States." Granted. But howis Congress to dispose of the property of the United States, including the public lands? Congress can only legislate.
Congress can dispose by manifesting its will, and only in
that way. Now, Congress has manifested its will in regard
to the acquisition of titles to Indian lands by Indian treaties.
From the begining of the second year of this government
down to the year 1871, when Congress passed an act concerning Indian treaties, to which reference will be made
presently, the will of Congress was manifested ; and it was
manifested to the effect, not only that individuals could acquire titles to Indian lands by Indian treaties, but that they
could be acquired by nobody in any other way.
O the 22d day of July, 1790, an act was passed,t
"That no sale of lands made by any Indians, or by any nation or tribe of Indians within the United States, shall be valid
to any person, or persons, or to any State, whether having a
right to pre-emption of that land or not, unless the same shall
*Supra, p. 221.

T1 Star. at Large, 138,

4.

:HOLDEN V. JfOY.

Dec. 1872.]

Argument for the appellee.

be made and duly.executed at some public treaty, held under
the authority of the United States."
This was a temporary act, which lasted for two years, and
until the end of the next Congress. Now, if we follow this
down, we shall find in 1793,* an act still more explicit;
though this, also, was only a temporary act. The language
of the section is *peculiar and very significant in reference
to the subject we are now considering, and has always been
continued in the legislation of Cong!'ess since,
"That no purchase or grant of lands, or any title or claim
thereto, from any Indian, or nation, or triba of Indians, within
the bounds of the 'United States, shall be of any validity in law
or equity unless the same be made by a treaty or convention entered into pursuant to tMe Constitution."
Here is the will of Congress; and, by a series of acts, it is
its established will; one passed in 1796,t another in 1802,1
another in June, 1834.ยง The last two are permanent Jaws
concerning Indian intercourse.
From the earliest time then, in the history of this government, Congress, using the power which it had to dispose of
the public lands, has manifested its will, that by an Indian
treaty, and that by an Indian treaty only, title to Indian'land
could be acquired, either by States or private individuals,
and Congress has said-when so manifesting its will-it
must be by a treaty such as is provided for under the Constitution, thus showing its construction of what an Indian
treaty was. Add to this the general law, already referred
to, regulating these trusts of cession, and sales under them,
and the dispositiou of the money, and the court has the
whole subject of the acquisition of titles by individuals under
Indian treaties so far as it depends on legislation; and in
conformity with this legislation are the numerous decisions
of this court, to the effect that titles to Indian lands may be acquired by treaty. And although by the act of 1871, Congress
undertook to, and perhaps did, put an end to the tribal ca* 1 Stat. at Large, p. 330,

8.

t 1b. 472.

+ 2 Id. 143.

4 Id. 730.

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

pacity of these dependent nations to negotiate further treaties, those already negotiated are expressly saved.
Then, next, it is said that the treaty was promulgated the
10th of June, apd that Secretary Browning signed the contract on the 8th of June.
To this the answer is:
(1.) That as respects the rights and duties of each of the
contracting parties, the treaty takes effect from its date;* and
the act of Secretary Browning was intended to be in the
discharge of a duty of the United States under the treaty.
(2.) The supplemental treaty did not require Secretary
Browning to enter into any executory contract; it validated
the contract of his predecessor, with modifications specified.
(8.) The lands having been: patented .to Mr. Joy, pursuant
to the treaty, it is immaterial whether he held a valid written
executory contract for such patents or not. Such a contract
would not strengthen his title by patent, nor can the absence of such contract weaken it.
Mr. Joy purchased these lands of the government in good
faith, and in accordance with the apparent and the real authority of the agents of the government to sell them. They
have been patented to him, he has paid for them, and the
purclase-money has been appropriated by Congress. Will
this court say he has acquired no title?
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Concessions made in the bill favorable to the respondent
are to be regarded as facts undisputed by the complainant,
and matters well pleaded, in favor of the complainant, are,
in view of the demurrer, to be considered as facts admitted
by the respondent. Viewed in that light, as the pleadings
must be, it will be most convenient to inquire, in the first
place, whether the title claimed by the respondent is a valid
one, as if it is, the decree must be affirmed, and if it is not,
the decree must be reversed, and the comnlainant may perhaps be entitled to relief.
* Haver v. Yakor, 9 Wallace, 32.

Dec. 1872.]

H OLDEN V. JOY.
Opinion of the court.

Disturbances, and in some instances collisions, of a threatening character, occurred between the Cherokee nation of
Indians and certain citizens of the States or Territories in
which they resided, in consequence of which the United
States and the Cherokee nation became anxious to make
some arrangement whereby the difficulties which had arisen
by the residence of the Indians within the settled parts of
the United States, under the jurisdiction and laws of the
States or Territorial governments, might be terminated and
adjusted. Measures of various kinds had been devised and
tried without effectually accomplishing the object, as will be
seen by reference to some of the early treaties with that nation and the acts of Congress upon the subject.*
Treaties of the kind were concluded with that nation of
Indians ol the 6th of May, 1828, and on the 14th of February, 1833, in both of which the United States agreed to possess the Cherokees of seven million. acres of land west of
the Mississippi River, bounded as therein described, and to
guarantee it to them forever, upon the terms and conditions
therein stipulated and agreed. Enough appears in those
treaties to show that it was the policy of the United States
to induce the Indians of that nation, resident in any of the
States or organized Territories of the United States, to sur-.
render their lands and possessions to the United States, and
emigrate and settle in the territory provided for them in
those treaties. Sufficient is known, as matter of history, to
justify the remark, that those measures, as well as some of
like kind of an earlier date, were unsuccessful, and that the
difficulties continued and became -more and more embarrassing.t
Prior measures having failed to accomplish the object of
quieting the disturbances or removing the difficulties, the
United States, on the 29th of December, 1835, concluded a
new treaty with the Cherokee nation, with a view to reunite
their people in one body and to secure to them a permanent
7 Stat. at Large, 311 ; Ib. 414.
t The Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Peters, 15; Worcester v. Georgia,
&Id. 515.

HOLDEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

home for themselves and their posterity in the country selected for that purpose, without tlhe territorial limits of the
State sovereignties, and where they could establish and enjoy a government of their choice, and perpetuate such a
state of society as might be consonant with their views,
habits, and condition.*
By the first article of the treaty the Cherokee nation
"cede, relinquish, and c onvey to the United States all the
lands owned, claimed, or possitsed by them east of the
.Mississippi River," and released all their claims for spoliations of every kind, for and in consideration of the sum
of $5,000,000, to be expended, paid, and invested in the
manner stipulated and agreed upon. in other articles of the
treaty.
Reference is made in the second article of the treaty to
the respective articles of the two before-menti6ned treaties,
.in which the United States agreed to possess"the Cherokees
of seven million acres 'of land, situated and bounded as
therein described, and guaranteed it to them forever upon
the terms and conditions therein stipulated and agreed.
Apprehension,it seems, was felt by the Cherokees that the
cession contained in those treaties, and confirmed in the
new treaty, did not contain a sufficient quantity of land for
the accommodation of the whole nation on their removal,
and in view of that fact the United $tates, in consideration
of $500,000, covenanted and agreed to convey to the said
Indians and, their descendants, by patent in fee simple, a certain tract of land, situated and bounded as therein described,
estimated to contain eight hundred thousand acres of laud,
ever afterwards known as the Cherokee neutral lands, and
it. is admitted in'the bill of complaint that it includes the
tract in controversy.
Authority was conferred upon the President by the -first
section of the act of the 28th of May, 1,830, to cause so much
of any territory belonging to the United States, west of the
Mississippi, not included in any State or organized Terri7 Stat. .at Large, 479.

Dec. 187i.]

D 2.OLDEN
V. JOY.
Opinion of the court.

tory, and to which the Indian title had been extinguished,
"as he may judge necessary," to be divided into a suitable
number of districts, for the reception of such tribes or nations of Indians as may choose to exchange the lands where
they now reside, and to remove there, and to cause each of
said districts to be so described by natural or artificial
boundaries as to be easily distinguished from every other.
Power is also conferred upon the President by the second
section of the act to exchange any or all of such districts
with any tribe or nation of Indians residing within the
limits of any of the States or Territories, for the whole or
any portion of the territory, claimed and occupied by such
tribe or nation, within the bounds of any one or more of the
States or Territories, subject to certain conditions therein
*prescribed. Section three provides that in making such exchanges the President may solemnly assure the tribe or nation that the United States will forever secure and guarantee
.to them and their heirs and successors the country so exchanged *vith them, and that, if they prefer it, the United
States will cause a patent or grant to be made and executed
to them for the same, provided that such huds shall revert
to the United States -ifthe Indians become extinct or abandon the territory.
Much reason exists to suppose that Congress in framing
those provisions had in view the stipulations of the treaty
concluded two 'years earlier, and it is equally probable that
the President and Senate in negotiating and concludiffg the
two treaties of later date were largely goveried by the several provisions in that act of Congress, but they were not
controlled by these enactments, as is evident from the fact
that the later of the two contains many stipulations differing
widely from the provisions of that act, as for example the
United States, in the supplemental article enlarging the
quantity of land set apart for the accommodation of the
nation, expressly covenant and agree to convey the additional tract to the said Indians and their descendants by.
patent, in fee-simple title, and the article does not contain
any such provision as that contained in the third section of

]=[OLDEN V.

JOY.

[Sup. OL.

Opinion of the court.

the act of Congress, that the land shall revert to the United
States if the Indians become extinct or abandon the territory.*
Attempt is made in argument to show that the last-named
treaty was negotiated by force of the act of Congress to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians, but it is clear
that t-he proposition cannot be sustained, as the treaty differs
widely in many respects from the provisions of that act of
Congress. Doubtless the intent and purpose were the same
-to quiet the disturbances and to induce the Indians remaining in the States and Territories to emigrate and settle
in the district of country set apart for them without the
limits of the several States and organized Territories-but
the treaty, though concluded-to promote the same object as
the act of Congress, adopts very different instrumentalities.
It is a treaty to confirm to the Indians the possession of the
seven million acres of land previously granted to the nation,
and t9 purchase their lands east of the Mississippi River for
the sum of $5,000,000, to be expended, paid, and invested
in the manner therein stipulated and provided.
Such prior grant of land was made or defined under the
two treaties before mentioned to secure a new home for the
Indians, without the limits of the several States and Territories, and to induce the Indians still residing within those
limits to emigrate and settle in the country long before set
apart for that pufpose. Large numbers of the Cherokees
emigrated and settled there'under the treaty of the 8th of
July, 1817, and measures of various kinds had been-adopted,
at later periods, to induce the residue of the nation to follow
those who had accepted the proffered protecti6n, but without
much success.t
Even treaties proved ineffectual, as one after another failed
to accomplish the desired end. They would not emigrate
without compensation for their improvements, and many
were reluctant to accept any of the terms proposed, upon
the ground that the quantity of land set' apart for the accom* 4 Stat. r t Large, 412

.

7 Id. 480..

t 7 Id. 166.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN v. Joy.
Opinion of the court.

modation of the whole nation was not sufficient for the purpose. Twice the United States offered the seven million
acres of laud, with other inducements, but the terms, though
formally accepted, did not have the effect to accomplish the
end. Experience showed that better terms were required,
and the government agreed to purchase their lands for the
consideration named in the treaty and to convey to the
Indians in fee-simple title, the additional tract of eight hundred thousand acres, for $500,000, to be deducted from the
consideration stipulated to be paid for the purchase of their
lands.
Other important stipulations are contained in the treaty,
among which are the following: (1.) That the United States
agree that the lands ceded shall all be included in one patent,
executed by the President, to the Cherokee nation, according to the provision of the before-mentioned act of Congress.
(2.) That the United States agree to extinguish, for the benefit of the Cherokees, the titles to the reservations within
their country, made in the Osage treaty to certain halfbreeds, and for that purpose the United States agree to pay
to the persons to whom the titles belong the sum of $15,000,
according to the schedule accompanying the treaty. (3.)
That the United States shall pay the American Board of
Commissioners for Foreign Missions for the improvements
they have on the ceded country the sums at which the same
shall be appraised, and that the money allowed for the improvements shall be expended in schools among the Osages,
and for improving their condition. (4.) That the land ceded
to the Cherokee nation shall, in no future time, be included,
without their consent, within the territorial limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory. (5.) That the United
States agree to protect the Cherokee iation from domestic
strifes and foreign enemies and against intestine Wars between the several tribes. (6.) That the United States agree
to remove the Cherokees to their new homes and to subsist
them for one year after their arrival. (7.) That the United
States shall liquidate claims for reservations and pay the
sums awarded to the claimants; and many other stipulaVOL. XVIL

16

242

RoLDEN

v. Joy.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tions which were of great value and highlv beneficial to the
Cherokee nation.
Valid treaties were made by the President and Senate
auring that period with the Cherokee nation, as appears by
the decision of this court in several cases.* Indeed, treaties
have been made by the United States with the Indian tribes
ever since the Union was formed, of which namerous examples are to be found in the seventh volume of the public
statutes.t Indian tribes are States in a certain sense, though
not.foreign States, or States of the United States, within the
meaning of the second section of the third article of the
Constitution, which extends the judicial powver to controversies between two or more States, between a State and
citizens of another State, between citizens of different States,
and between a State or the citizens thereof and foreign
States, citizens, or subjects. They are not States within
the meaning of any one of those clauses of the Constitution,
and yet in a certain domestic sense, and for certain municipal purposes, they are States, and have been uniformly so
treated since the settlement of our counti'y and throughout
its history, and numerous treaties made with them recognize
.them as a people capable 'of maintaining ihe relations of
.peace and war, of being responsible' in their political character, for any* violation of their engagements," or for any
aggression committed on the citizens of the United States
by any individual of their com~runity. Laws have been
enacted by Congress in the spirit of those treaties, and the
acts of our government, both in-the executive and legislative departments, plainly reebgnize such tribes or nations as
States, and the courts of the United States are bound by
those acts.1
Express power is given to the President, by and with the
advice and conpent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided
* United States v. Rogers, 4 Howard, 567.

t Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Peters, 17; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Id.
5MB.
: Doe v. Braden, 16 Howard, 635; Fellows v. Btacksmitb, 19 Id. 372"1
Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 619.

Dec. 1872.]

H OLDEN V. JOY.
Opinion of the court.

two-thirds of the senators present concur, and inasmuch as
the power is given, in general terms, without any description of the objects intended t6 be embraced within its scope,
it must be assumed that the framers of the Constitution intended that it should extend to all those objects which in
the intercourse of nations had usually been regarded as the
proper subjects of negotiation and treaty, if not inconsistent
with the nature of our government and the relation between
the States and the United States.*
Beyond doubt the Cherokees were the owners and occupants of the territory where they resided before the first
approach of civilized man to the western continent, deriving
their title, as they claimed, from the Great Spirit, to whom
the whole earth belongs, and they were unquestionably the
sole and exclusive masters of the territory, and claimed the
right to govern themselves by their own laws, usages, and
customs. Guided by nautical skill, enterprising navigators
were conducted to the New World. They found it, says
Marshall, C.J., in possession of a people who had made
small progress in agriculture or manufactures, and, whose
general employment was war,-hunting, and fishing. Expeditions were fitted out by all the great maritime powers of
the Old World, and they visited many parts of the newly
discovered continent, and each made claim to such part of
the country as they visited. Disputes arose and conflicts
were in prospect, which made it necessary to establish some
principle which all would acknowledge, and which should
decide their respective rights in case of conflicting preten-.
sions. Influenced by these considerations they agreed that
discovery should determine the right, that discovery should
give title to the government by whose subjects, or by whose
authority, it was made, against all other governments, and
that the title so acquired might be consummated by possession.t As a necessary consequence the principle estab* Holmes v. Jennison et al., 14 Peters, 569; 1 Kent, 166, 2 Story on
the Constitution, 1508; 7 Hamilton's Works, 501; Daer's Jurisprudence,
229.
j- Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheaton, 573.

244

HOLDENT V. JOY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lished gave to the nation making the discovery the sole right
of acquiring the soil and of making settlements on it. Obviously this principle regulated the right conceded by discovery among the discoverers, but it could not affect the
rights of those already in possession, either as aboriginal
occupants or as occupants by virtue of a-more ancient discovery. It gave the exclusive right to purchase, but did not
found that right on a denial of the right of the possessor to
sell. Colonies were planted by GreatBritainand the United
States,'by virtue of the revolution and the treaty of peace,
succeeded to the extent-therein provided to all the claims of
that government, both political and territorial. Throughout, the Indians as tribes or nations, have been considered
as distinct, independent communities, retaining their original, natural rights as the undisputed possessors of the soil,
from time immemorial, subject to the conditions imposed by
the discoverers of the continent, which excluded them from
intercourse with any other government than that of the first
discoverer of the particular section claimed. They could sell
to the government of the discoverer, but they could not-sell
to any other governments or their subjects, as the government of the discoverer acquired, by virtue of their discovery,
the exclusive pre-emption right to purchase, and the right
to exclude the subjects of all other governments, and even
their own, from acquiring title to the lands.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the lands
conveyed to the United States by the treaty were held by
the Cherokees under their original title, acquired by immemorial possession, commencing ages before the New World
was known to civilized man. Unmistakably their title was
absolute, subject only to the pre-emption right of purchase
acquired by the United States as the successors of Great
Britain, and the right also on their part as such successors
of the discoverer to prohibit the sale of the land to any other
governments or their subjects, and to exclude all other governments from any interference in their affairs.* Evidently.,
-- Mitchel et al. v. United States, 9 Peters, 748.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. JOY.
Opinion of the court.

therefore, the Cherokees were competent to make the sale
to the United States, and to purchase the lands agreed to be
conveyed to them by the second article of the treaty. Both
parties concede that the title of the United States to the tract
*known as the Cherokee neutral lands was perfect and complete, and that the tract includes the land in controversy.
Title to that tract was acquired by the United States as a
part of the Louisiana purchase from the French Republic.
By the treaty between the United Stat~s and the French
Republic of April 80th, 1803, the chief executive officer of
that republic ceded the said territory to the United States,
with all its rights and appurtenances, forever.* When the
President took possession of the Territory the absolute feesimple title and right of sovereignty and jurisdiction became
vested in the United States as the successor of the original
discoverer, subject only to the Indian title and right of occupancy as universally acknowledged by all the departments
of our government throughout our history. All agree that
this land then, and for many years thereafter, was occupied
by the Osage Indians. On the 2d of June, 1825, the Osage
tribes, by the treaty of that date, ceded to the United States
all their right, title, interest, and claims to the lands lying
. . .west of the State of Missouri, with such reservations,

and for such considerations, as are therein specified, which,
it is conceded, extinguished fidrever the title of the Osage
Indians to the neutral lands.t
Prior to the treaty of the 8th of July, 1817, the Cherokees
resided cast of the river Mississippi. Pursuant to that treaty
they were divided into two parties, one electing to remain
east of the Mississippi and the other electing to emigrate
and settle west of it, and it appears that the latter made
choice of the country on the Arkansas and White Rivers,
and that they settled there upon the lands of the United
States described in the treaty.t
Possessed as the United States were of the fee-simple title
to the neutral lands, discharged of the right of occupancy
*8 star. at Large, 200.

t- 7 Id. 240.

$Ib. 157.

HfOLDEN V). JOY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

by the Osage Indians, it was clearly competent for the
proper authorities of the United States to convey the same
to the Cherokee nation. Subsequent acts of the United
States show that the stipulhtions, covenants, and agreements
of the treaty in question were regarded by all the departments of the government as'creating binding obligations, as
fully appears from the fact that they all concurred in carrying the provisions into full effect.* Appropriations were
made for surveys, and surveys were ordered, and plats were
made, and on the 1st of December, 1838, a patent for the
land promised was issued by the President in full execution
of the second and third articles of the treaty. Among other
things it is recited in the patent that it is issued in execution
of the agreements and stipulations contained in the said
several treaties, and that the United States do give and grant
unto the Cherokee nation the two described tracts of land as
surveyed, containing the whole quantity therein mentioned:
to have and to hold the same, together with all the rights,
privileges, and appurtenances thereto belonging, to the said
Cherokee nation forever, subject to certain conditions therein
specified) of which the last one is that the land& hereby
granted shall revert to the United States if the said Cherokee nation becomes extinct or abandons the premises.
Objection is made by the appellant that the treaty was inoperative to convey the neutral lands to the Cherokee nation,
which may well be admitted, as none of its provisions purport proprio vigore, to make any such conveyance. Nothing
of the kind is pretended, but the stipulation of the second
article of the treaty is that the United States covenant and
agree to convey to the said Indians and their descendants,
by patent in fee simple, the described additional tract, meaning the tract known as the neutral lands; and the third
article of the treaty stipulates that the lands ceded by the
treaty, as well as those ceded by a prioi' treaty, shall all be
included in one patent, to be executed to the Cherokee na* inis v. United States, 15 Peters, 448; Forterfield v. Olark, 2 Howard, 76.

Dec.1872.]

HO[LDEN V. JOY.
Opinion of the court.

tion of Indians by the President, according to the provisions
of the before-mentioned act of Congress.*
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted that the President and
Senate, in concluding such a treaty, could not lawfully covenant that a patent should issue to convey lands -which belonged to the United States without the consent of Congress,
which cannot be admitted.t On the contrary, there are many
authorities where it is held that a treaty may convey to a
grantee a good title to such lands without an act of Congress conferring it, and that Congress has no constitutional
power to settle or interfere with rights under treaties, except
in cases purely political.1 Much reason exists in view of
those authorities and others which might be referred to, for
holding that the objection of the appellant is not well
founded, but it is not necessary to decide the question in
this case, as the treaty in question has been fully carried into
effect, and its provisions have been repeatedly recognized
by Congress as valid.ยง Congress, on the 2d of July, 1886,
appropriated $4,500,000 for the amount stipulated to be paid
for the lands ceded by the Cherokees in the first article of
the treaty, deducting the cost of the land to be conveyed to
them west of the Mississippi under the second article of the
same treaty, which is the precise aniount stipulated to be
paid for the concession, deducting the consideration which
the Indians agreed to allow for the neutral lands. Appropriations were also made by that act to fulfil and execute
the'stipulations, covevants, and agreements contained in the
* Gaines v. Nicholson, 9 Howard, 36; Insurance Company v. Canter, 1
Peters, 542.
t United States v. Brooks, 10 Howard, 442; Meigs v. McClung, 9 Cranch,
11.
$ Wilson v. Wail, 6 Wallace, 89; Insurance Co. "o.Canter, 1 Peters, 542;
Doe v. Wilson, 23 Howard, 461; Mitchell et a]. v. United States, 9 Peters,
749; United States v. Brooks et al., 10 Howard, 460; The Kans as Indians,
6 Wallace, 737 ; 2 Story on the Constitution, 1508; Foster et al. v. Neilson,
2 Peters, 254; Crews et al. v. Burcham, 1 Black, 356; 'Worcester v. Georgia,
6 Peters, 662; Blair v. Pathkiller, 2 Yerger, 407; Harris v. Barnett, 4
Blackford, 369.
Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Peters, 611; Lawrence's Wheaton, 48.

248

HOLDBN v. JoY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fourth, eleventh, seventeenth, and eighteenth articles of the
treaty, and for the removal of the Cherokees, and for surveying the lands set apart by treaty stipulatibns for the
Cherokee Indians west of the Mississippi River.* Coinmissioners were appointed to adjudicate the claims of individual Cherokees, as provided in the thirteenth article of
the tre1ty, and their compensation was fixed by Congress,
and appropriations 'were made by Congress for that purpose. Such a board was duly constituted, consisting of two
commissioners, and it was made the duty of the AttorneyGeneral, in case of their disagreement, to decide the point
in difference.t
Prior treaties between the United States and the Cherokee
nation proving to be insufficient to protect and -promote
their respective interests, the contracting parties, on the
15th of July, 1866, made a new treaty of that date, by the
first article of which they declare that the pretended treaty
made with the so-called Confederate States by the Cherokee
nation, on the 7th of October, 1861, is void, which is all
that need be said upon the subject, as botk parties repudiate
the instrument and concur that it is of no effect.T Many
new regulationis are there adopted and many new stipulations made, but they are all, or nearly all, foreign to the
present investigation, except the provision contained in the
seventeenth article. By that article the Cherokee nation
ceded, in trust, to the United States the tract of land which
was sold to the Cherokees by the United States under the
provisions of the second article of the prior treaty, and also
that strip of the land ceded to the nation by the fourth
article of said treaty, which is included in the State where
the land is situated, and the Cherokees consent that said
lands may be included within the lifiits and under the jurisdiction of the said State, to be surveyed as the public lands
- 5 Stat. at Large, 73.
- 4 Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 580, 598, 613, 615-621; 10 Stat. at
Large, 673, 687; 11 Id. 80.
1 14 Stat. at Large, 799; Ib 326; lb. 499.

-Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN V. Joy.

, 249

Opinion of the court.

of the United States are surveyed, under the direction of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and that the
lands shall be appraised as therein provided.
Annexed to that stipulation is a proviso that persons owning improvements and residing on the same, if of the value
of $50, and it appears that they were made for agricultural
purposes, may, after due proof, be entitled to buy the same
at the appraised- value, under the conditions therein specified.
Sales Qf the kind may be made 'under such regulations as
the Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe, but another
proviso is-annexed to the stipulation that nothing in that
article shall prevent the Secretary of the Interior from selling for cash the whole of said neutral lands in a body to any
responsible party for a sum not less than $800,000.
When the treaty was submitted to the Senate the last
proviso was stricken out and another was adopted in its
place, as follows: That nothing in the article shall prevent
the Secretary of the Interior from selling the whole of said
lands, not occupied by actual settlers at the date of the ratification of the treaty (not exceeding one hundred aud sixty
acres to each person entitled to pre-emption under the preernption laws of the United States), in a body, to any responsible party, for cash, for a sum not less than one dollar
per acre. Exception is there made of improvements made
by actual settlers, but the amendment in one respect is more
comprehensive than the original treaty, as it extends the
authority of the Secretary of the Interior to lands other than
'those known as the neutral lands, to which the original
treaty was confined.
Two objections are made to the title of the appellee as
affected. by that treaty, in addition to those urged to show
that the, prtor treaty between the same parties was inoperative and invalid. It is contended by the appellant that the
Cherokee possessory right to the neutral lands was extinguished -by the seventeenth article of the treaty, which undoubtedly is correct, but the conclusion which he attempts
to deduce from that fact cannot be sustained, that the Cherokee nation abandoned the lands within the meaning of the

HOL.DE V.JOY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

last condition inserted in the patent by which they acquired
the same from the United States.
Strong doubts are entertained whether that condition in
the patent is valid, as it was not authorized by the treaty
under which it was issued. By the treaty the United States
covenanted and agreed to convey the lands in fee-simple
title, and it may well be held that if that condition reduces
the estate conveyed to less than a fee, it is void; but it is
not necessary to decide that point, as it is clear that if it is
valid it is a condition subsequent, which no ond but the
grantor in this case can set up under any circumstances.*
Even if the rule was otherwise, still the point could not
avail the appellant, as the parties manifestly waived it in
this case, nor is it true that the sale in trust by the Cherokee
nation to their former grantor constitutes such an abandonment of the premises as that contemplated by the condition
inserted in the patent.
Unsupported in that proposition, the appellant in the next
place contends that the provisions of the seventeenth article
of the treaty are a mere agreement, that the article did not
operate to convey the lands to the United States; but the
court is entirely of a different opinion, as the proposition is
contradicted by the practice of the government from its
origin to the present time.t
Most of the objections urged against the prior treaty are
also urged to show that this treaty is inoperative and invalid,
to which the same answer is made as is giveil by the court
in response to the antecedent objections.
Under that article- of the treaty a contract was made and
executed, dated August 30th, 1866, by the Secretary of the
Interior, on behalf of the United States, and by the American Emigrant Company, for the sale of the so-called Cherokee neutral lands, containing eight hundred thousand acres,
more or less, with the limitations and restrictions set forth
* 4 Kent, 127-130; Cooper v.Roberts, 18 Howard, 181 ; Kennett -. Plummer, 28 Missouri, 145.
t Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Peters, 542; United States v. Brooks, 10
Howard, 460.

Dec. 1872.]

HOLDEN 2).JOY.
Opinion of the court.

in that article of the treaty as amended, on the terms and
conditions therein mentioned, but the successor of the Secretary of the Interior came to the conclusion that the sale,
as made by that contract, was illegal and not in conformity
with the treaty and the amendments thereto, and on the 9th
of October of the succeeding year he entered into a new contract on behalf of the United States with the appellee for the
sale of the aforesaid lands, on the terms and conditions in
said contract set forth. Embarrassment to all concerned
arose from these conflicting contracts, and for the purpose
of removing the same all the parties came to the conclusion
that it was desirable that the Emigrant Comphny should
assign their contract, and all their right, titlejclaim, and
interest in and to the said neutral lands, to the appellee" and
that he should assume and conform to all the obligations of
the said company under their said contract. All of the parties having united in that arrangement, the Uilited States
and the Cherokee nation, on the 27th oApril, 1868, adopted
a supplemental article to the last-named treaty, and the same
was duly ratified by the Senate and proclaimed by the President.* Acting through commissioners the contracting parties agreed that an amendment of the first contract should
be made, and that said contract as modified should "be and
the same is hereby, with the consent of all parties, reaffirmed
and made valid;". that the second contract shall be relinquished and cancelled by the appellee, and that sai'd first contract, as modified, and the assignment of the same, and the
relinquishment of Ithe second contract, "are hereby ratified
and confirmed whenever said assignment of the first contract and the relinquishment of the second shall be entered
of record in the Department of the Interior, and when" the
appellee "shall have accepted said assignment and shall
have entered into a contract with the Secretary of the Interior to assume and perform all the obligations of the Emigrant Company under said first-named contract, as therein
modified." Important modifications were made in the first
* 15 Stat. at Large, 727.

] 0r.DEN V. JOY.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

contract, but it is not important that they should be reproduced at this time.*
After the Indian title was extinguished by the treaty
ceding the neutral lands to the United States, and before
the supplemental treaty was concluded, many settlers, it is
claimed, including the appellant, went on these lands for
the purpose of settlement. They took, and have continued,
possession for the purpose of complying with and procuring
titles under the pre-emption laws passed by Congress, but the
local land offices were not open to them, and of course they
were denied the opportunity to make proof and payment.
Instead of that, patents of the lands, not belonging to actual
settlers, were issued to the appellee, and it is admitted by
the appellant that the patent of October 31st, 1868, covers
the land in controversy, and that he, the appellant, is not
entitled to relief if that patent gives to the appellee a valid
title.
Precisely the same objections were made to the treaty
ceding back the neutral lands to the United States, and to
the supplemental treaty, as were taken to the prior treaty
under which the United States covenanted to convey the
neutral lands to the Cherokee nation, and they must be
overruled for the reasons given for overruling the objections
to the prior treaty.
Acts-of Congress were subsequently passed recognizing
the treaty ceding back the lands to the United States, and
the supplemental treaty as valid, and making appropriations
to carry the siime into effect.t
Some other objections of a purely technical character
are made by the appellant to the title of the appellee, but
these are satisfactorily answered in the printed argument
filed in the case by the latter party, and, are accordingly
overruled.1
Viewed in any light, the court is of the opinion that the
* 16 Stat. at Large, 728.

t 15 Id. 222; 12 Id. 793; 10 Id. 283; 16 Id. 359; 5 Id. 73.
$ Attorney-General v. Deerfield Bridge Co., 105 Massachusetts, 9.

Dec. 1872.]

TYLER V. MAGWIRE.

Syllabus.

title to the land in controversy is in the appellee, and thatthere is no error in the record.
DECREE AFFIRMED IN EACH CASE.

NOTE.
WARNER V. JOY.
No. 327.

THE decree in this case (like the preceding one, an appeal
from the District of Kansas) was also affirmed; Mr. Justice
CLIFFORD (who delivered the judgment of the court) observing,

that it was clear that such a decree must be given, on an application of the principles adopted and the reasons given in the
case just decided; as the pleadings were substantially the same
ad in it, and there vas a stipulation of the parties that the court
might take and determine the demurrer- filed upon the agreements made in that case and without further argument.
So, too, judgment was here affirmed on a w'it of error (No.
328) to the same district, in a suit of ejectment by Toy against
Warner for these same lands, where judgment had been given
in favor of Joy; Air. Justice CLIFFORD, who delivered the judgment of the court, saying that the questions presened for decision were "in all respects the same as those presented and
decided in Holden v. Joy;" and that "the court, without hesitation, decides that theititle of the plaintiff is complete, and that
he is entitled to judgment for the recovery of the possession of
the premises in controversy."

TYLER V. MAGWIRE.
The Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, on appeal, dismissed a peti-

tion which sought to have the title to lands held by the defendant, under
a patent from the United States, divested, and vested in the complainant.
From this decree of dismissal a writ of error brought up the case under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, the complainant claiming
the land under a former patent from the United States.

