CONWAY V. STANNARD.

S
[Sup.
Of;.

Syllabus.

at least prinu facie the original was in court to answer the
notice of the party desiring to use the copy. How far the
plaintiff could have been permitted to show a variance of
the defendants' paper from the genuine, after it was once
introduced, we need not inquire. But a copy could not be
introduced until what seemed to be the original had been
before the court and become the subject of inspection by
the jury.
It has been urged that the court invaded the province of
the jury by giving instructions which left them no alternative but to Iind for the defendants. It may be true that,
under the charge of the court, they could do nothing else.
But a careful examination of the whole charge, which is
before us, shows that the court left the credibility of the
witnesses, and all disputed facts, to the jury, and based its
instructions to find for the defendants on their belief of
propositions which required such a verdict. This objection
is largely based upon the argument that the jury might
have found for the plaintiff a reasonable compensation for
his services on the common count, but to this it is a sufficient
answer to say that no testimony was offered of the value of
the services rendered under this count, nor any instructions
asked of the court on that count, and that through the whole
trial plaintiff is ' sted on his special contract, and that alone,
as the ground of his recovery.
We see no error in'the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

CONWAY v. STANNARD.
Under the fifteenth section 6f the.at of July 18th, 1866 (14 Stat. at Large,
180), providing for the sale of unclaimed perishable property, or prope6ry. the expense of keeping which'would reduce the proceeds of sale (as
ex. gr., hbrses), of less value than $500, used in smuggling goods into the
United States,-the collector need not give the twenty days allowed by
previous sections in thecdse of like propertyi non-perishable, for the

Oct. 1873.]

CONWAY V.

STANNARD.

Statement bf the case.
claimant to prefer his claim to it, and all6w fifteen days' notice of sale,
but may publicly advertise it for sale at once, on seizure, and proper
certificate by appraisers of its value and character, and, after not less
than one week's notice, may sell it.

ON certificate of division between the judges of the Circuit Court for the District of Vermont; the case being thus':
Before the act of July 18th, 1866,* was passed it was necessary, in all cases of seizure of property for violation of the
revenue laws, to institute proceedings in court for its condemnation.
The statute referred to effected a change in the mode of
proceeding where the property in question did not exceed
in value $500, and provided a way in which the title of the
owner could be divested without enforcing the forfeiture in
court.
By the eleventh section the seizing officer was required,
after having caused the property to be appraised, to give
notice for three successive weeks, describing the property,
stating the time, place, and cause of seizure, and requiring
any person claiming it to appear and file his claim with the

collector within twenty days from the first publication of such
notice.
By the twelfth section, if a claimant appeared within the
time prescribed, i. e., within twenty days from the first publication of this notice, filed his claim with the collector, and
gave proper bond, the forfeiture had to be enforced in the
proper court as in cases exceeding $500 in valte. But if no
claimant appeared within that time the officer was directed to
advertise the property for sale, giving not less than fifteen
days' notice of sale, and to deposit the proceeds of sale in the
treasury. By the thirteenth section it was enacted that if it
should happen that the owner, notwithstanding the publicity
given to the transaction did not know of the seizure and
sale, and was not guilty of any intentional fraud on the revenue, the Secretary of the Treasury, on satisfactory proof of
these facts, within three months from the deposit of the
* 14 Stat. at Large, 180.

CQNWAY V. STANNARD.

[Sup. or.

Argument for the plaintiff.

money, might remit the forfeiture and. restore the proceeds
of sale.
The fifteenth section of the act-the section-on which the
dispute in this case turned-requiies the officer, if the property, being of less value than $500, shall be certified on oath
by the appraisers, in their belief, to b'e liable to perish or
deteriorate by keeping, or cahnot be kept without disproportionate expense, "and when no claim shall have been interposed therefor as hereinbefore provided," to advertise that he
bad seized and would sell it, giving iot less than one week's
notice of such.seizure and intended sale.
This act of 1866 being in force, Staninard, as an officei of
the customs for the' disti'ict of Vermont, on the 14th of JanuAry; 1868, seized the horses, harness, and sleigh of one Con*ay, as being engaged in'smuggling goods from Canada.
He caused the property to be appraised immediately, and
the appraisers finding it worth $191, and no claim being interposed, and the appraisers certifying their belief on oath
that it was liable to speedy deterioration by keeping, and
,that the expense of keeping it would largely reduce the net
proceeds of the sal'e 6f it, -the collector-gave publid notice on
h6 i5th that he would sell it on the 29th following, and accordingly did sell it on the said 29th 6f January; that is to
say, without allowing Conway twenty days firom the notice
of seizure within which to prefer his claim. The proceeds
were paid into the treasury.
Hereupon Conway brought trespass de bonis asportatis,in
the court below, for taking and carrying away the horses, &c.
The collector pleaded the facts as abo e given.
The plaintiff demurred to the plea, and the opinion of the
judges being opposed upon the question whether the plea
was a bar to the action, the question was certified for decision here.
Mr. L. P. Poland,'for the plaintiff, and in support of the demurrer:
The substantial effect 6f a seizure and sale of property
un~der the provisions of the act of 1866, is to deprive the

Oct. 1873.1

CONWAY V. STANNARD.

Argument for the plaintiff.

owner of his property without any judicial determination
against him, or against his property. He may, indeed;
within three months, at his own cost and expense, appeal to
the clemency or discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury,
but all legal intendments and presumptions are against him;
the burden of proof is thrown upon him, to show that his
property was not forfeited, or that the.violation of law was
unintentional; and even this will not suffice, unless he also
prove that he had no knowledge of the seizure.
The proceeding is far more in invitum than those usually
so characterized,-tax sales, or sales on execution, and the
like. The notice by publication is all the notice that the
owner of the property is requi'ed to have before he is deprived of his property by an official and quasi judicial sale.
This mere statement of the statute, and of its severe penal
consequences, is enough to show that every requirement of
it should be strictly observed.
Now, by the fifteenth section, the owner is expressly given
twenty days within which to file his claim and bond, and
thus entitle himself to a legal trial before he is deprived of
his property. The section enacts that if the appraisers certify that the property is perishable, or cannot be kept with-

out disproportionate expense, "AND WHERE NO CLAIM SHALL
HAVE BEEN INTERPOSED THEREFOR, AS IS HEREINBEFORE -PRO-

thon the officer may proceed to advertise and sell
the property, and shall at such time as he thinks reasonable,
VIDED,"

BUT NOT LESS THAN ONE WELK.

These are absolute and indis-

pensable conditions required by the law, before the seizing
officer has any -authority to even advertise the property for
sale, and so absolutely essential are they for the protection
of the owner that they cannot be disregarded.
In the present case the defendants utterly disregarded
these provisions, and proceeded to advertise the property
for sale on the next day after seizing it, without notice to.
the plaintiff and without opportunity to assert his claim.
The case then is that of an officer who has neglected to perform an act legally required as preliminary to a sale. And
for this violation of law-wanton and flagrant in this caseoL. XVIL

26

CQNWAY V. STANNARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

all the authorities,' from the Six Carpenters' Case* to this
time,t make the defendant a trespasser ab initio and liable
in trQspass for the property.
But under any circumstances the plea is no bar.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. 1T Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded by the demurrer that the property was subject to forfeiture, but the counsel for the plaintiff insists that
the officer sold it before, by law, he had a right to do so,
and that this act- makes him liable as a trespasser ab initio.
It is unnecessary to consider the last point, because, in our
opinion, the seizing officer observed the requirements of the
statute on this subject, and is, therefore, protected from suit.
It is'further insisted, on the part of the plai'ntiff, that he
was allowed by the terms of the section twenty days from
notice of seizure within which to prefer his claim, and as
this condition was violated by the officer making the sale,
the plea is not a bar to the action. This construction is
more plausible than sound. It cannot be adopted, because
lit is inconsistent with other pQsitive directions, about which
-there is no controversy, and would, besides, defeat the manifest purpose that Congress intended to accomplish by this
legislation.
This secion is the last of the series concerning the seizure
and' sale of property worth less than $500.. The sections
which precede it apply to property'generally of this limited
value, wile' tis i affe-ts property of the same value, but of a
1 Smith's Leading Cases, 274, 7th Amherican edition, and notes; reported
originally in 8 Repdrts; 432,,146*.
t.Purrington v. LorjogT,7. Massachusetts, 388; Pierce v. Benjamin, 14
Pickering. 356; Smith v.Gates, 21 Id. 55; MGonugh v.Wellington, 6 Alien,
505 i Blake v. Johinson, I New Hampshire, 91; Barrett v. 'White et al., 3
Id. 210; Ferri nv.Symonds, 11 Id. 363 ; Cate v. Cate, 44 Id. 211; Sutton v.
Beach,2 termon;, 42;- Stoduhton: v.Mott, 13 Id. 176; Bond v. Wilder, i6
Id.,p93; Lamb v. Day et al., 8 Td. J07; Briggs v. Gleason, 29 Id. 78; Hall

v. Ray4 4Id. 576..

Oct. 1873.]

OONWAY

V.

STANNARD.

Opinion of the court.

perishable nature. The scheme adopted for the condemnation of property of this limited value, without a resort to
the courts, could not be complete unless it embraced property liable to deteriorate, as well as that which was not of
this character. And of necessity, the provisions for the condeniation of both could not be the same. Perishable property ought to be speedily sold, while property not in this
condition could not be injured by delay. The statute recognizes this difference, and provides for it. In the case of
property not perishable-doubtless, supposed to be the kind
which would usually come under condemnation-the first
step to be taken is to give notice of the seizure, which is to
be continued for three successive weeks. If the owner appears in twenty days from the first publication of this notice,
he can put a stop to the summary proceeding. If he does
not appear, the property is to be advertised for sale on
notice of not less than fifteen days. And he is turned over
to the Secretary of the Treasury for remission of the forfeiture, if he has suffered injustice at the hands of the government.
The requirements concerning the-disposition of perishable
property are very different. In the first place, no separate
notice of seizure is exacted of the officer, but the notice of
seizure is to go out with the notice of sale. This provision
shows that it was intended to fiasten the sale of this kind of
property; and it is clear that this object could not be attained if the officer had to publish a. preliminary notice of
seizure, wait twenty days for any one interested to prefer a
claim, and then advertise and sell. Before all this could be
done, the property miglt become worthless. At any rate,
the longer the delay the greater the deterioration; and in
recognition of this fact, the officer is authorized to sell property in this predicament in a week, if he thinks proper to
do so; while, as we have seen, he is estopped from selling
property not in this condition until the expiration of thirtyfive days from the publication of notice of seizure. In the
latter case, the owner can have twenty days to file his claim,
and yet the officer can discharge his duty under the law; in,

404

CONWAY V. STANNARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the former he cannot enjoy this privilege and the officer be
allowed to exercise his discretion to sell the property after a
week's notice.
The two things cannot coexist, nor is Congress chargeable with such loose legislation, for the condition can be
construed so as to harmonize all parts of the section, and
thereby secure an effective system for the speedy disposition
of property subject to forfeiture, of less value than $500,
whether perishable or not.
It is argued that the words "as hereinbefore provided"
control the condition, and make it broad enough to embrace
everything secured on this subject in a previous part of the
statute. This result by no means follows. The words, it is
true, are general, but they necessarily refer to the manner
of making the claim as previously directed, and not to the
time within which the chimant of property, not perishable,
could interfere.
The twelfth section pointed out the way in which the
party interested had to proceed in order to arrest the sale
of his property. He must file his claim with the officer,
state the nature of it, and give bond with certain conditions.
If these things were done, the summary proceeding was
stopped, and the district attoi'ney authorized to proceed to
condemn the property in the ordinary mode prescribed by
law.
By the fifteenth section, the owner of perishable property
was informed that if he interposed and perfected his claim
in the same way, the same consequences would follow. If
he did not choose to do this, the officer was directed, without
any loss of time, to advertise and sell his property, leaving
him, in case of injury, to seek redress at the hands of the
Secretary, of 'the Treasury.
This is the scope aInd extent of this section. On this
theory of construction the plan adopted for the sale of perishable property can be made to work effectively. On the
theory advanced by the plaintiff, it is practically inoperative.
It follows, from these views, that the demurrer to the
special plea in bar should have been overruled, and that,

Oct. 1873.]

"0"NITED STATES

v).

HENRY.

405

Statement of the case.

therefore, the question certified by the judges below must
be
ANSWERED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.

UNITED STATES VL.PENRY.
1. An officer who shows that he received a commission from the proper source,
and who serves and is recognized as such officer by his superiors until
his regiment is mustered out, and who presented himself at the proper
time and place to be mustered in, and was refused, makes out a prim
facie case for full pay under the joint resolution of Congress of July
26th, 1866, "for the relief of certain officers of the army."
2. It does not rebut this prinafacie case to prove that the officer who refused to muster him in alleged that he was not entitled to guch muster,
because the company to which he was assigned as lieutenant was below
the minimum in numbers.
3. Such a statement is not a finding of the fact by the Court of Claims that
the company was reduced below the minimum.
4. N~or does the fact, if found, bring the case within section twentieth of the
act of March 3d, 1863, forbidding the appointment of officers to a regiment when that regiment has been reduced below the minimum number
allowed for regiments.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
A joint resolution of Congress, approved July 26th, 1866,*
resolves:
"That in every case in which a commissioned officer actually
entered on duty as such commissioned officer, but, by reason of
being killed in battle, capture by the enemy, or other cause beyond his
control, and without fault or neglect of his own, was not mustered within a period of not less than thirty days, the pay department shall allow to such officer full pay and emoluments of
his rank from the date on which such officer actually entered on
such duty as aforesaid, deducting from the amount paid in accordance with this resolution all pay actually received by such
officer for such period."
APPEAL

An act of Congress of prior date, March 3d, 1863,t had
enacted i its twentieth section,* 14 Star. at Large, 368.

t- 12 Id. 734.

