Qct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BROWN.

445

Syllabus.

Congress was pas'sed to remove the restriction of the ninth
section of the act of 1863, and his claim was referred to the
Court of Claims "for adjudication thereof, pursuant to authority conferred upon said court by any existing law to
examine and decide claims against the lnited States, referred to it by Congress."* His claim was thus placed under
the jurisdiction of the court equally as though the ninth section were not in existence.
In the present case, no such general reference was made
of the claim of Atoeha, nor was any such extended authority over it conferred. The court was directed to make a
specific examination into the justice of the claim against
Mexico, and whether it was embraced within tire treaty;
and if the court was of opinion that the claim was a just one
and was embraced within tha.treaty, it was required "to fix
and determine" its amount, and when so determfined, the
act declares that the amount shall be paid." -The matter was
referred to the court to ascertain a particular fact to guide
the government in the execution of its treaty stipulations.
The court has acted upon the matter, and as no mode is
provided for a review of its action, it must be taken and regarded as final.
Our judgment is, that the return of the judges of the
Court of Claims to the alternative writ is sufficient, and a
peremptory mandamus is
DENIED.

RAILROAD COMPANY v. BRowN.
1. An act of Congress, in cases of a suit against a railroad company which
it incorporated, authorized service of process "on any director of the
company." On a suit brought, the marshal made a return of service,
July 6th, 1868, on J. S., "reputed to be one of the directors of the conpany." The record showed that on the 5th of May, 1866, J. S. was, in
fact, one of the directors. Held, sufficient service, in the absence of
proof, that J. S. was not one of the directors at the time of service; and
* 14 Stat. at Large, 611.

'RAILROAD COMPANY V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the defendant having appeared and moved, for want of sufficient service, the opening of a judgment which had been obtained for default;
which motion as asked for, the court refused, but granted on condition
that the defendant appeared; which he did, and proceeded to trial.
2. A railroad corporation run on the joint account of a receiver of part of
it and the lessees of the remaining part, held liable for injuries committed, by a servant of the parties tiorking it, upon the person of a passenger whom such servant improperly expelled from a car, into which
the passenger had entered; the railroad corporation having allowed
tickets to be issued in its own name, in the same form as it had done
before the road was leased, and the passenger, for aught that appeared,
not knowing that the railroad corporation was not itself managing the
road.
8. An act of Congress passed in 1863, which gave certain privileges which
it asked to a railroad corporation, enacted also'that "1no person shall be
excluded from the cars on accoun t of color." Held, that this meant
that persons of color should travel in the same cars that white ones did,
and along with them in such cars; and that the enactment was not satisfied by the company's providing cars assigned exclusively to people
of color, though they were as g9od as those which they a#signed exclusively for white persons, and in fact the very cars which were, at certain times, assigned exclusively to white persons.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court for the District of Columbia;
the case being thus:
In the year 1854, Congress authorized the Alexandria and
Washington Railroad Company,* a compafiy which had
been incorporated by the State of Virginia, and whose road
began at Alexandria, a town s~ven miles south of Washington, and ran northward to the south side of the Potomac,
to extend their road into the District of Columbia, in a way
designated.
The act of incorporation provided that in case of suit
against the company " the' service of process . . . may be
made on .. . any director of the company."
In 1863, the company got a further grant of power,t authorizing it to extend its road northward, so as to connect
itself with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. This grant
was, however, accompanied with a provision, "that no perso shall be excluded from the cars on account of color."
In 1866, the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown
* V) Stat. at Large, 810,

8.

t 12 id. m0.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. BROWN.
Statement of-the case:

Railroad Company, which had succeeded to the chartered
rights of the old Alexandria and Washington Company, ob-

tained from Congress an amendhient* to the Iast-mentioned
act-the act of 1863-so as to change the route of extension,
and for other purposes. This act speaks of "the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad Company," as
"a corporation lawfully succeeding to the charter, rights,
and privileges of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad
Company." The road, under its new name, was at the time
of this act leased to two persons named Stevens and Phelps.
The new company not very long after fell into pecuniary
difficulties, and the portion of it within the District of Columbia, by a decree of the Supreme Court of the District,
was placed in the possession of a receiver, and the whole
road was worked on the joint-account of the lessees on the
Virginia side and the receiver on the District side.
In this condition of things, one Catharine Brovn, a colored woman, 6n the 8th of February, 1868, anterior to the
adoption of the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments to the
Ponstitution, bought a ticket to come from Alexandria to
Washington. The ticket was issued in the name of "the
Washington, Georgetown, -and Alexandria Railroad Company;" as were, indeed, all the tickets at each end of the
route. No tickets were distinguished as for white persons
or colored persons, nor for any particular sort or class of
cars. All were exactly alike.
When the woman went to take her place in the cars there
were standing there two ca'rs, alike comfortable; the one,
however, set apart for colored persons, and the other "forwhite ladies, und gentlemen accompanying them ;'"the regulation having been that in going down from 'Washington to
Alexandria, the first should be occupied by the former, and
the last by the latter; and that in coming back the use
should be simply reversed. When about to get into one of
the cars, a servant of the persons managing the road, stationed near the cars to direct passengers, told the woman
* 14 Stat. at Large, 248.

RAILROAD COMPANY

v.

BROWN.

[Sup.
Ct.
[

-Statement of the case:

not to get into the car into which she was about to eilter,
but to get into the one before it; that he had been instructed
by persons in charge of the road not to-permit colored persons to ride in the car in which she was getting, but to have
them go in the other. The'"voman, hoxvever, persisted in
going into the car appropriated for white ladies, and the
man put her out with force, and, as she alleged, some insulL, She then got into. the car into which she had been
directed to get-the one assigned to colored people-was
carried safely into Washington and got out there.
Hereupon she sued the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad Company in the Supreme Court of the District.
The marshal of the District made return that he had
"served copy of summons and declaration on Joseph Stewart, reputed to be one of the directors of the company, the
defendant." Judgment was entered by default, and the
question of damages referred' to a jury for iniquisition. The
company afterwards moved to set aside the judgment because no sufficient service had been made. The court refused to grant this motion as thus asked for; but granted it
on the entry of an appearance in ten days by the company
and the receiver; and ordered the case to be put on the
calendar for trial. The case was tried. On the trial evidence was introduced by the defendant tending to show that
the ejection had not been with insult or umecessary force;
that the regulation of separating white from colored persons
was one which was in force on the principal railroads in the
country; that unless the said regulation ]ad been adopted
on this road, travel upon it would have been seriously injured; and that the establishment of such a regulation itself
increased the expenses of the road considerably, and that
without such a regulation the receipts of the road would
have decreased.
* The counsel of the company requested the court to instruct the jury:
,Jst. That on the evidence there-had not been due service
of process on the defendant, and that the plaintiff could not
recover.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COIPANY V. BROWN.

Opinion of the court.

2d. That if the injuries complained of were received when
the road was in the possession of the lessees and receiver,worked and conducted by them,-the verdict should be for
the defendant.
3d. That if by a standing regulatibn certain cars were appropriated and designated for the use of white persons, and
certain others for the use of colored, and all the cars were
equally safe, cleatn, and comfortable, and if this sort of regulation was one in force on the principal railroads of the
country, and one which unless it had been adopted on this
road, the travel on it would have been seriously injured and
the receipts of the road decreased, and if the establishment
of such a regulation itself increased the expenses of the road
considerably-then, in case no insult nor greater force than
was necessary had been used, and the plaintiff after taking
a seat in the car appropriated for colored persons, was carried safely into Washington and got out there-that the
plaintiff could not recover.
The court refused to give any one of the instructions, and,
a verdict having been givetf in $1500 for the plaintiff and
judgment entered ou it, the company brought the case here,
assigning as three causes of error the refusals to give the
charges requested.
Messrs.. T. T. Crittenden and D. Clarke, for the plaintiff in
error; Icsss. S. R. Bond and TV A. Cook, contra:
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Thcre are but three points in this record which the assignments of error bring before us for-review, and only the last
relates to the merits of the controversy.
1. It is objected that the Circuit Court did not acquire
jurisdictiou of the defendant below for want of proper service of process. But this objection is not w-ell taken, becfuse the process was served on Stewart, a director of the
road,'and this service was in conformity to law.* It is true
4 10 Stat. at Large, 810,
VOL. xvI.

29

3.

RAILROAD COMPANY v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

-

the marshal does not return as a fact that Stewart was a director, only that he was reputed to be so, but the record
shows he was a director when the road was leased, and in
the absence of proof to the contrary, it will be presumed
this relation existed when the summons in this case was
served. Even if the service were defective, the plaintiff in
error is not in d position at this time to except to it. The
record discloses that, soon after the action was commenced,
a judgment by default was entered for want of a plea, and
that the plaintiff in error appeared by attorney and moved
the court to set it aside on the ground that there had been
no sufficient service of process. This motion was denied
for the reason stated, but the court ordered the default to be
opened and the cause placed on the trial calendar, on the
condition that the appearance of the plaintiff in error was
entered by the receiver within a period of ten days. This
order was, doubtless, made.in order to give the compahy an
opportunity to defend, and at the same time to set at rest
the point raised about the service in case the merits of the
action were tried. The condition thus imposed was complied with, and for aught that appears, the subsequent litigation has been coiiduc-ted on the part of the company by
its voluntary appearance-in every stage of the case.
2. The second assignment of error denies the liability of
the corporation for anything done while the road is operated
by the lessees and receiver.
It is the accepted doctrine in this country, that a railroad
corporation cannot escape the performance of any duty or
obligation imposed by its charter or the general laws of the
St'ate by a voluntary surrender of its road into the hands of
lessees.* The operation of the road by the lessees does not
change the relations of the original company to the public.
It is argued, however, that this rule is not applicable where
the proceeding, instead of being voluntary, is compulsory,
as in the case of the transfer of possession to a receiver by
a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction. Wlhether
* 1 Redfield on the Law of Railways, 5th ed., chap. 22,

1, p. 616.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BROWN.

451

Opinion of the court.

this be so or not, we are not called upon to decide, because
it has never been held that the company is relieved from
liability, unless the possession of the receiver is exclusive
and the servants of the road wholly employed and controlled
by him. In this case the possession was not exclusive, nor
were the servants subject to the receiver's order alone. On
the contrary, the road was run on the joint account of the
lessees and receiver, and the servants employed and controlled by them jointly. Both were, therefore, alike responsible for the act complained of, and if so, the original company is also responsible, for the servants under such an
employment, in legal contemplation, are as much the servants of the company as of the lessees and receiver.
Apart from this view of the subject, the ticket on which
the plaintiff rode, was issued in the name *of the Washington, Georgetown, and Alexandria Railroad Company,. aswere all the tickets sold at both ends of the route. The
holder of such a ticket contracts for carriage with the company, not with the lessees and receiver. Indeed, there is
nothing to show that Catharine Brown knew of the. difficulties into which the original company had fallen, nor of the
part performed by the lessees and receiver in operating the
road. She was not required to look beyond the ticket,
which conveyed the information that this road was run as
railroads generally are, by a chartered company. "Besides,
the company ha-; ig permitted the lessees and receiver to
conduct the business of the road in'this particular, as if
there were no change of possession, is not in a position to
raise any question as to its liability for their acts.
The third and last .assignment of error asserts the right
of the company to make the regulation separating the colored from the white passengers.
If the defendant in error had the right to retain the seat
she had first taken, it is conceded the verdict of the jury
should not be disturbed.
It appears that the Washington and Alexandria Railroad
Company, in 1863, was desirous of extending its road from

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the south side of the Potomac near to the Baltimore. and
Ohio 'depot,.in Washingtou, and Congressional aid was asked
to enable it to do-so. The authority to make the extension
was granted,* and the streets designated across which the
road should pass. This grant was accompanid with several
provisions, among the number was one that no person
shall be excluded from the cars on account of color. In
1866, the plaintiff- in error, which had succeeded to the

chartered rights of the previous company, obtained from
Congress an amendmenf to the former act, so as to change
the route of the extension, and for other purposes.t The
latter act leaves all the provisions of the former act in full
force, and the present company, therefore, is obliged to observe in the running of its road all the requirements irQ=
posed by .Congress in its previous legislation on the subject.
This leads us to consider what Congress mueant in directing
that no person should be excluded frdm the cars of the company on account of color.
The plaintiff in error contends that it has-literally obeyed
the direction, because it has never excluded this class of persons from the cars, but on the contrary, has always provided
accommodations for them.
ingenious attempt to evade a compliance with
This is ani
the obvious yneaning of the requirement. It is true the
words taken literally might bear the interpretation put upon
them by the plaintiff in error, but evidently Congress did
not use them in any such limited sense. There was no
occasion in legislating for a railroad corporatiqn to annex a
condition to a grant of power, that the company should
allow colored persons 'to ride in its cars. This right had
never been refused, nor could there have been in the mind
of any one an apprehension that such a state of things
would ever occur, for self-inter;est would clearly induce the
carrier--south as well as north-to transp6rt, if paid for it,
all persons, whether white or black, who should desire transportation. It was the discrimination in the use of the cars
* 12 Stat. at Large, 805.

t- 14 Id. 248.

Oct. 1873.]

ADAMS V. BURKE.
Statement of the case.

on account of color, where slavery obtained, which was the
subject of discussion at the time, and not the fact that the
colored race could not ride in the cars at all. Congress, in
the belief that this discrimination was unjust, acted. It told
this company, in substance, that it could extend its road
within the District as desired, but that this discrimination
must cease, and the colored and white race, in the use of
the cars, be placed on an equality. This condition it had
the right to impose, and in the temper of Congress at the
time, it is manifest the grant could not have been made
without it. It was the privilege of the company to reject
it, but to do this, it must reject the whole legislation with
which it was connected. It canunot accept a part and repudiate the rest. Having, therefbre, constructed its road as it
was authorized to do, and in this way greatly added to the
value of its property, it will be held to a faithful compliance
with all the terms accompanying the grant by which it was
enabled to secure this pecuniary advantage.
In our opinion there is no error in the record, and the
judgment below must be
AFFIRMED.

ADAMS

v.

BURKE.

a patentee has assigned his right to manufacture, sell, and use
1. 'here
within a limited district an instrument, machine, or other manufactured
product, a purchaser of such instrument or machine, when rightfully
bought within -the prescribed limits, acquires by such purchase the right
to use it anywhere, without reference to other assignments of territorial
rights by the same patentee.
2. The right to the use of such machines or instruments stands on a different
ground from the right to make and sell them, and inheres in the nature
of a contract of purchase, which carries no implied limitation of the
right of use within a given locality.
.APPEAL from the Circuit Court fbr the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
On the 26th day of May, 1863, letters-patent were granted

