Dec. 1872.]

MASON V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

allow the ingress or egress to and from the public office in said
building of persons entitled to the same."
This proceeding by the circuit judge purported to be
based on the act of Congress, 31st May, 1870, entitled "An
act to enforce the-rights of citizens of the United States to
vote in the several States of this Union and for other purposes."*
The 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 19th, and 20th sections of the act
are intended to preserve the right of the voter. Each relates
to a specific wrong against him, and constitutes it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment.
The 23d section gives a remedy to one deprived of his
election to any office. The remedy is to consist in "anyappropriatesuit or proceeding to recover possession of the office."
Messrs. P. Phillipsand E. N. Ogden, in behalf of the petitioner;
1Messrs. Caleb Cushing and M. H. Carpenter,contra. Mr. T. .
Durant,whom the court declined to hear,for the State of Louisiana.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
We are all of opinion that when a final decree shall be
rendered in the Circuit Court in this case, an appeal will lie
to this court. We are also of opinion that this court has no
jurisdiction in this case to issue a writ of prohibition until
an appeal is taken.

MASON V. UNITED STATES.
The United States offered to A. an order for 50,000 muskets on certain terms
specified, with an agreement that 100,000 would be received if delivered
within a time named. A. accepted the offer, and laid out a large sum
of money in getting his works in condition to execute the order, and
thus and otherwise was able and ready to execute it. Subsequently to
this the War Department appointed a commission to adjust all contracts, orders, and laims on the deplhrtment in respect to arms, its de16 Statutes at Large, 140.

MASON V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
cision to be final and conclusive as respected the department, as to the
validity, execution, and sums due or to become due upon such contracts; and invited all persons interested in such orders to appear before it and be heard respecting their claims. "WhetherA. came before
it did not appear. The commission, however, did, without his consent
and against his remonstrance, pass on his case, and reported that the
order to him be confirmed to the extent of 80,000 muskets, upon condition that he should execute a bond with sureties for the performance of
the contract as thus modified, and upon his failure to execute such bond
that the original order should be held null. The bond being prepared
and sent to him by the department he executed it. -Held,that such execution was his voluntary act; i'nd that the original contract for the
100,000 muskets was thus changed and modified.

APPEAL from the Court of Claima; the case being thus:
On the 7th January, 1862, the chief of ordnance, General
Ripley, by direction of the Secretary of Wari made in writing, on behalf of the government, this offer to one Mason,
a manufacturer of atrms at Taunton, Massachusetts:
"I offer you an order for 50,000 muskets, with appendages, of
-the Springfield pattern, on the following terms and conditions,
viz.:" [Here followed a variety of minute specifications as to
the character of the muskets, and the time when they were to
be delivered.]
"It is farther directed by the War Department that double
the number of arms aud appendages, viz., 100,000, will be received, if manufactured at your establishment in Taunton, and
delivered within the times before specified for the delivery of
the 50,000 arms and appendages. All the other terms and conditions of this order remaining unchanged for the additional
50,000."
On the 20th January, 1862, Mason, in writing, accepted
the foregoing order, and his acceptance thereof was received
by the chief of ordnance.
Mason immediately proceeded to make changes of machinery in his machine works, and to. do whatever was necessary, to insure the full and complete performance of the
agreement, and was able and willing to perform his agreement according to the terms of it. His expenditures for
changing his machine works into an armory, as required

Dec.1872.]

MASON V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

by the agreement, amounted to $75,000, and the profits
which he would have made upon the muskets ordered, if
lie had been allowed to perform, would have amounted to
$5.25 per musket.
01 the 13th March, 1862, the War Department ordered" That Joseph Holt and Robert Dale Owen be a special commission to audit and adjust all contracts, orders, and claims on
the War Department in re~pect to arms; their decision to be
final and conclusive as respects the department on all questions
touching the validity, execution, and sums due or to become due
upon such contracts, and upon all other questions arising between contractors and the government upon such contracts.
"That the commission should proceed forthwith to investigate
all claims and contracts in respect to arms in the department,
or pending settlement and final payment, and adjudicate the
same."
The order added:
" All persons interested in such contracts may appear in person, but not by attorney, before said commissioners, and be

heard respecting their claims, at such time and place as the commissioners shall appoint. All claims that they may award in
favor of shall be promptly paid. No application will be entertained by the department respecting any claim or contract
which they shall adjudge to be invalid."
On the 15th of May, 1862, the commission, without the
consent and against the remonstrances of the claimant, decided and reported to the chief of ordnance:
"That the order to Mr. Mason be confirmed, subject to all its
terms, to the extent of 30,000 muskets, upon condition that he
shall: within fifteen days after notice of this decision, execute
bond, with good and sufficient sureties, in the form and with
the stipulations prescribed by law and the regulations, for the
performance of the contract, as thus modified, resulting from
said order and acceptance; and, upon his failure or refusal to execute such bond, then the said order shall be declared annulled and of
no effect."
. On the 30th of May, 1862, the chief of ordnance trans-

MASON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

:Restatement of the case in the opinion.

mitted a copy of this decision to Mason, and also the contract and bond contemplated by the commission in its decision, with the request that he would execute and file them
within fifteen days after their receipt by him, if he should
"accept the order as confirmed by the commission." Mason
thereupon executed such written contract, on the 25th day of
June, 1862, whereby he contracted and engaged to furnish
'to the defendants "30,000 muskets or the Springfield pattern." This contract was performed by both the parties,
and no other muskets were ever furnished by Mason to the
government.
Upon these facts the Court of Claims, as a conclusion of
law, decided :
That the original contract between the parties for the purchase and sale of 100,000 Springfield muskets was changed
and modified'by the voluntary act of the parties in the written
contract, 25th of June, 1862, and that the petition of the
claimant should be dismissed.
From that decree Mason took this appeal.
Mr. Thomas Wilson, for the appellant; Mr. G. H. Williams,
Attorney- General,and Mr. C. . Hill, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Parties having claims against the United States for labor
or service, or for personal property or materials furnished,
which are disputed by the officers authorized to adjust the
accounts, may compromise the claim and may accept a
smaller sum than the contract price; and where the claimant
voluntarily enters into a compromise and accepts a smaller
sum and executes a discharge in full for the whole claim,
he cannot subsequently recover in the Court of Claims for
any. part of the claim voluntarily relinquished in the compromise.
Mason contracted to manufacture and deliver 50,000 muskets with appendages, of the Springfield pattern. They
were to be in all respects identical with the standard riflemusket made at the National armory, with the regular ap-

Dec.1872.]

D ASON V. UNITED STATES.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

pendages, and were to be so constructed as to interchange
with that pattern and with each other in all their parts, and
they were to be subject to inspection in the same manner as
the arms are which are manufactured at the National armory;
and the stipulation was that none should be received except
such as passed inspection and were approved by the regular
inspectors. Deliveries were to be made at the times and iii
the quantities therein specified, and payments were to be
made, in such funds as the Treasury Department should
provide, on certificates of inspection and receipt by the inspectors, at the rate of $20 for each arm including appendages. Information was also communicated to the contractor by the War Department that double the number
specified in the contract would be received, if manufactured
at the contractor's establishment and delivered at the times
specified for the delivery of the first 50,000 arms, upon the
same terms and conditions as those specified in that contract.
On the 20th of January, 1862, the claimant accepted the
offer to manufacture and deliver the second 50,000 muskets
and appendages, as proposed in that offer, and duly notified
the chief of ordnance of his acceptance of the same in
writing. Pursuant to that arrangement the claimant proceeded to make changes in his machine works, and to do
whatever was necessary to enable him to perform his agreement, and the Court of Claims finds that he was able and
willing to perform the same, and that he expended $75,000
in changing his machine works into an armory for that purpose, and that if he had been allowed to fulfil the agreement his profits would have amounted to $5.25 per musket.
Complaint is made that the officers of the United States
prevented the claimant from perfoiming his contract, and
it appears that the Secretary of War, on the 13th of March,
1862, by an order of that date, appointed a special commission, consisting of two members, to audit and adjust all
orders and claims on the War Department in respect to
ordnance arms and ammunition, providing in the same
order that their decisions should be final and conclusive
upon the department on all questions touching the validity

MASON V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

and execution of the contracts, and the sums due or to become due upon the same, and upon all other questions
arising out of the contracts between the contractors and the
government. Whether the claimant ever appeared before
the commissibn does not appear, but it does appear that the

commissioners, on the 15th of May, in the same year, without the consent and against the remonstrance of the claimant,
decided and reported to the chief of ordnance that the contract of the claimant be confirmed, subject to all its terms,
to the extent of 30,000 muskets, upon the condition that he,
the climant, shall, within fifteen days after notice of the
decision, execute a bond, with good and sufficient sureties,,
in the fbrm and with the stipulations prescribed by law and
the regulations in such cases, for the performance of the
contract as thus modified, and that the contract shall be declared null and of no efrect in case he fails or refuses to execute such a bond. Due notice was given of the decision to
the claimant, and the chief of ordnance transmitted to him
the-draft of the contract and bond contemplated by the decision, with the request that he would execute and file the
same within fifteen days from their receipt i he should accept
the contract as cowifirrned by the commission, and the finding of
the Court of Claims shows that he executed the written contract whereby he contracted and engaged to furnish to the
United States 30,000 muskets of the Springfield pattern;
and the Court of Claims also finds that the contract was performed by both parties, and that no other muskets were ever
furnished to the United States by the claimant.
Much discussion of the case is certainly unnecessary, as it
isas clear as any proposition of fact well can be, that the
claimant voluntarily accepted the modification of the contract as suggested by the commissioners, and that he executed-the new contract in its place, which he must have
understood was intended to define the obligations of both
parties. ,-His counsel suggest that be accepted the new contract without relinquishing his claim for damages, arising
irom the refusal of the United States to allow him to fur-

Dec. 1872-1

D ASON V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

nish the whole 100,000 muskets, but the court is uuahle to
adopt that theory, as it is quite clear that he could not have
acted with any such motives consistent with good faith towards the War Department, as he must have known that
the chief of ordnance supposed when he, the claimant, returned the written contract duly executed, that the whole
matter in difference was adjusted to the satisfaction of all
concerned. Parties are bound to good faith in their dealings with the United States as well as with individuals, and
the court is of the opinion that no party in such a case could
be justified, after accepting such a compromise and executing such discharge, in claiming damages for a breach of the
prior contract which had been voluntarily modified and surrendered, unless the new contract was accepted under protest or with. notice that damages would be claimed for the
refusal of the United States to allow the claimant to fulfil
the contract which was modified in the new arrangement.
It is contended by the appellant that the case is different
in principle from the case of United States v. Adams,* and the
other casest of a corresponding character decided by this
court, and the court is inclined to the same opinion, as it is
a plain case of voluntary adjustment between the parties,
which all courts hold is final and conclusive. None of
those cases proceed upon the ground that such a commission
possessed any judicial power to bind the parties by their decision, or to give the decision any conclusive effect. Nor
can such a commission compel a claimant to appear before
them and litigate his claim, but if he does appear and prosecute it, or subsequently accepts the terms awarded as a final
.settlement of the controversy, without protest, he must be
understood as having precluded himself from further liti-

gation.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the adjustment
in this case, so far as the claimant is concerned, was the result of duress, but the charge is wholly unsupported by evi7 Wallace, 463.
t United States v. Child, 12 Wallace, 232; United States v. Justice, 14 Id.

MASON V. UNITED STATES.

.[$up.

at

Opinion of the Chief Justice, dissenting.

dence of -ny kind, except that the United States proposed
to annul tb.e, old -contract if the claimant refused to accept
the modification, which is wholly insufficient to establish
i
such a charge.
Apart from that, it is also suggested that the claimant at
that time could have no remedy by suit against the United
States, as the transaction preceded the passage of the law
establishing the Court of Claims. But he might have applied
to Congress for relief, as all other claimants were compelled
to do fro~r the organization of the government until the
law was passed allowing such parties to prosecute suits
against the United States.
. Duress, if proved, may be a defence to an action, and it
would doubtless be sufficient to relieve a party from the
effect of c'ompromise wlich was procured by such means,
but -the burden of proof to establish the charge, in every
such case, is upon the party making it, and if lie fails to introduce any such evidence to support it, the presumption is
that the charge is without any foundation.* Acceptance
from the governient of a smaller sum than the one claimed,
even in a case where the amount relinquished is large, does
not leave the government open to further claim on the ground
of duress, if the acceptance was without intimidation and
with a full knowledge of all the circumstances; and the case
is not changed because the circumstances attending the transaction were such that the claimant was induced from the
want of the money to accept the smaller sum in full, which
is not proved in this case.t
Examined in any point of view we think the decision of
the Court of Claims is' correct.
DECREE AFFIRMEP.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting:
I am unable to conpur in the opinion just read. The original contract was honestly and fairly made without taint of
nited States v. Hodson, 10 Wallace, 409; Brown v. Pierce, 7 Id. 214;
Baker v. Morton, 12 Id. 157.
t United States v. Child, 12 Wallace, 232.
*

Dec. 1872.]

SWEENi V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

fraud. This is not disputed. Large preparation at great
expense was made by the claimant for the fulfilment of it
on his part. It was violated by the United States without
reasonable cause, as I think, as expressly found by the Court
of Claims, without the consent, and against the rernonstrances of the claimant. A modified contract, -so called,
but really a sec6nd contract, was then made between the
parties, which was fulfilled on both sides; but there is niothing to show that this contract was freely made, or made at
all by the claimant in place of the first, oi that payment'of
the sums.due under it from the United States was accepted
by him in satisfaction of damages for the breach of the first.
I think that the United States are not absolved in their dealings with citizens from the obligations of honesty by which
individuals are usually controlled, and that the claimant is
entitled to damages.
[See the case next following.]

SWEENY V. UNITED STATES.
The doctrine of United States v. Clyde (13 Wallace, 35), of Mason v. United

States (supra,p. 67), and of other cases, affirmed, and the doctrine redeclared and applied, that where a claim is disputed by. the government, and the claimant accepts a certain sum in settlement thereof and
gives a receipt in full therefor, it is a bar to a subsequent action in the
Court of Claims for any residue asserted to be due.

APPEAL.from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:

One Sweeny, owner of a steamer, chartered her. at Louisville, March 3d, 1863, to the United States (the assistant
quartermaster of the military department where she was,
signing the charter-party in behalf. of the government), at

175 per day; no term of service being specified. On the
10th the per diem was increased, in writing, to $200, and was

