Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LoCKwooD.
Syllabus.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.*
As to.the first of the grounds, on which a dismissal of this
appeal is asked, on looking into the acts of Congress relating
to the connection of the district judge with the Circuit
Court, we are of opinion that, though upon appeals from
the District Court the district judge has no vote in the Circuit Court, he has in all other respects the powers of a member of the court, and may consequently allow appeals from

its decisions.
Secondly, it is apparent that, though no one of the claims
allowed exceeded $2000, yet the claim of the appellants,
which was disallowed, exceeded that sum.
Thirdly, we are of opinion that the decree may be considered as of either the 3d day of June or the 6th day of
June, 1872, and that the appeal was in time to operate as a
supersedeas under the act of 1789. That act, however, does
not prescribe the existing rule. The act of June 1st, 1872,t
which must govern the case, allows sixty days for the filing
of the bond by which the appeal is made to operate as. a
MOTION DENIED.

supersedeas.

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

LOCKWOOD.

1. A common carrier cannot lawfully stipulate for exemption from responsibility when such exemption is not just and reasonable in the eye of
the law.
2. It is not just and reasonable in the eye of the law for a common carrier
to stipulate for exemption from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servatits.
3. These rules apply both to common carriers of goods and common carriers
of passengers, and. with especial force to the latter.
4. They apply to the case of a drover travelling on a stock train to look
after his cattle, and having a free pass for that purpose.
* This.was the last opinion ever delivered by Chief Justice CHAsE, and the
last also given in the I&6'eiber Term, 1872. It was given on the 1st day
of May, 1873. The Chief Justice died on the following 7th.
t 17 Stat. at Large, 198.

RAILROAD CbMPANY v. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. C.

Statement of the case.
5. Query: Whether the same rules would apply to a strictly free passenger.
6. Held, arguendo: That a common carrier does not drop his character as
such merely by entering into a contract for limiting his responsibility.
7. That carefulness and fidelity are essential duties of his employment which
cannot be abdicated.
8. That these duties are as essential to the public security in his servants as
in himself.
9. That a failure to fulfil these duties is "negligence," the distinction between "gross" and "ordinary" negligence being unnecessary.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
L6ckwood, a drover, was injured whilst travelling on a
stock train of the New York Central Railroad Company,
proceeding from Buflido to Albany, and brought this suit to
recover damages for the injury. He had cattle in the train,
and had been required, at Buffalo, to sign an agreement to
attend to the loading,'transporting, and unloading of them,
and to take all risk of injury to them and of personal injury
to himself, or to whomsoever went with the cattle; and he
received what is called a drover's pass; that is to say, a pass
certifying that he had shipped sufficient stock to pass free
to Albany, but declaring that the acceptance of the pass was
to be considered a waiver of all claims for damages or injuries received on the train. The agreement stated its consideration to be the carrying of the plaintiff's cattle at less
than tariff rates. It was shown on the trial, that these rates
were about three times the ordinary rates charged, and that
no drover had cattle carried on those terms; but that all
signed similar agreements to that which was signed by the
plaintiff, and received similar passes. Evidence was given
on the trial tending to show that the injury complained of
was sustained in consequence of negligence on the part of
the defendants or their servants, but they insisted that they
were exempted by the terms of the contract from responsibility for all accidents, including those occurring from negligence, at least the ordinary negligence of their servants;
and requested the judge so to charge. This he refused, and
charged that if the jury were satisfied that the injury occurred without any negligence on the -part of the plaintiff,

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v. LOCKWOOD.

359

Opinion of the court.

and that the negligence of the defendants caused the injury,
they must find for the plaintiff, which they did. Judgment
being entered accordingly, the railroad company took this
writ of error.
It is unnecessary to notice some subordinate points made,
as this court was of opinion that all the questions of fact
were fairly left to the jury, and that the whole controversy
depended on the main question of law stated.
The case was elaborately argued by 171r. T. B. Strong, for
the company, plainiff in. error, and by Messrs. Trumnan Smith
and Cephas Brainerd, contra, early in the last term, with a
full citation of authorities; the counsel for the plaintiff in
error relying especially on the New York cases of Welles v.
The N€ew York Central Railroad Company,* Perlins v. Same,t
Smith v. Sam e,j Bissell v. S&me,§ Poucher v. Same,j by which
he argued that the case was to be determined; those being
decisions of the highest court of the State of New York,
within whose jurisdiction the contract was made and to be
executed, and where the alleged cause of action occurred.
Being held under advisement till this termMr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It may be assumed in limine, that the case was one of carriage for hire; for though the pass certifies that the plaintiff
was entitled to pass free, yet his passage was one of the
mutual terms of the arrangement fbr carrying his cattle.
The question is, therefore, distinctly raised, whether a railroad company carrying passengers for hire, can lawfully
stipulate not to be answerable for their own or their servants' negligence in reference to such carriage.
As the duties and responsibilities of public carriers ,were
prescribed by public policy, it has been seriously doubted
whether the courts did wisely in allowing that policy to be
departed from without legislative interference, by which
: 24 New York, 181; S. C. 26 Barbour, 641.
:1 lb. 222; S. (. 29 Barbour, 132.
25 New York, 442; S. C. 29 Barbour, 602.

j- 24 New York, 196.

II 49

New York, 268.

860

RAILIROAD

COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD..

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

needed 'modifications could have been introduced into the
law. But the great hirdship on th'e ca:rier in certain special
cases, where goods of great value or subject to extra risk
were delivered to him without notice of their character, and
where losses happened by sheer accident without any possibility of fraud or collusion on his part, such as by collisions
at sea, accidental fire, &c., led to a relaxation of the rule to
the extent of authorizing certain exemptions from liability
in such cases to be provided for, either by public notice
brought home to the'owners of the goods, or by inserting
exemptions from liability in the bill of lading, or other contract of carriage. A modification of the strict rule 6f responsibility, exempting the carrier from liability for accidental losses, where it can be safely done, enables the
carrying interest to reduce its rates of compefisation; thus
proportionally 'relieving the transportation of produce and
merchandise from some of the burden with which it isloaded.
The question is, whether such modification of responsibility by notice or special contract nay not be carried beyond legitimate bounds, and introduce evils against which
it was the direct policy of the law to guard; whether, for
example, a modification which gives license and immunity
to negligence and carelessness on the part of a public carrier
or his servants, is not so evidently repugnant to that policy
as to be altogether null and void; or, at least null and void
under certain circumstances.
In the case of sea-going vessels, Congress has, by the acs
of 1851, relieved ship-owners from all responsibility for loss
by fire unless caused by their own ddsign or neglect; and
from responsibility for loss of money and other valuables
named, unless notified of their character and value; and has
limited their liability to the value of ship and freight, where
losses happen by the embezzlement or other act of the master, crew, or passengers; or by collision, or any cause occurring, without their privity or knowledge; but the mafter
and crew themselves are held responsible to the parties injured by their negligence or misconduct., Sipilar enact-

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY. V. LOCKWOOD.

361

Opinion of the court.

ments have been made by State legislatures. This seems to
be the only important modification of previously existing
law on the subject, which in this country has been effected
by legislative interference. And by this, it is seen, that
though intended for the relief of the ship-owner, it still
leaves him liable to the extent of his ship and freight for the
negligence and misconduct of his employes, and liable without limit for his own negligence.
It is true that the first section of the above act relating to
loss by fire has a proviso, that nothing in the act contained
shall prevent the parties from making such contract as they
please, extending or limiting the liability of ship-owners.
This proviso, however, neither enacts nor affirms anything.
It simply expresses the intent of Congress to leave the right
of contracting as it stood before the act.
The courts of New York, where this case arose, for a long
time resisted the attempts of common carriers to limit their
common-law liability, except for the purpose of procuring a
disclosure of the character and value of articles liable to
extra hazard and risk. This, they were allowed to enforce
by means of a notice of non-liability, if the disclosure was
not made. But such announcements as "all baggage at the
risk of the owner," and such exceptions in bills of lading as
"this company will not be responsible for ihijuries by fire,
nor for goods lost, stolen, or damaged," were held to be
unavailing and void, as being against the policy of the law.*
But since the decision in the case of The -New Jersey Steam
.NavigationCompany f: Merchants' BankL,t by this court, in
January Term, 1848, it has been uniformly held, as well in
the courts of N : Yrk as in. the Federal courts, that a
common ca;i'ier may, by speidal contract, limit his commonlaw liability;' although considerable diversity of opinion has
existed as to the extent to which such limitation is admissible.
The case of The .New Jersey Steam Navwgation Company v.
Cole v. Goodwin, 19 Wendell, 257; Gould v. Hill, 2 Hill, 628.
t 6 fRoward, 344.

"862

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion -of the court.

Merchants' Bank, above adverted to, grew out of the burning
of the steamer Lexington. Certain money belonging to the
bank had been intrusted to Harnden's Express, to be carried
to Boston, and was'on board the steamer when she was destroyed. By agreement between the steamboat company
and Harnden, the crate of the latter and its contents were to
be at his sole risk. The court held this agreement valid, so
far as to exonerate the steamboat companyfrom the responsibility imposed by law; but not to excuse them for misconduct or negligence, which the court said it would not presume that the larties intended to include, although the terms
of the contract were broad enough for that purpose; and
that inasmuch as the company had, undertaken to carry the
goods from one place to another, they were deemed to have
incurred the same degree of responsibility as that which
attaches to. a private person engaged casually in the like
occupation, and were, therefore, bound to use ordinary care
in the custody of the goods, and in their delivery, and to
provide proper vehicles and means of conveya-ace for their
transportation; and as the court was of opinion that the
steamboat company had been guilty of negligence in these
particulars, as well as in the management of the steamer
during the fire they held them responsible for the loss.
As this has been regarded as a leading case, we may pause
for a moment to observe that the case before us seems almost
precisely within the category of that decision. In that case,
as in this, the contract was general, exempting the carrier
from every risk and imposing it all upon the party; but the
court would not presume that the parties intended to include
the negligence of the carrier or his agents in that exception.
It is strenuously insisted, however, that as negligence is
the only ground of liability in the carriage of passengers,
and as the contract is absolute in its terms, it must be construed to embrace negligence as well as accident, the former
in reference to passengers, and both in reference to the cattle carried in the train. As this argument seems plausible,
and the exclusion of a liability embraced in the terms of exemption on the ground that it could not have been in the

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

863

-

Opinion of the court.

mind of the parties is somewhat arbitrary, we will proceed
to examine the question before propounded;,namely, whether
common carriers may excuse themselves from liability for
negligence. In doing so we shall first briefly review the
course of decisions in New York, on which great stress has
been laid, and which are claimed to be decisive of the question. Whilst we cannot concede this, it is, nevertheless,.
due to the courts of that State to examine caefully the
grounds of their decision and to give them the weight which
they justly deserve. We think it will be found, however,
that the weight of opinion, even in New York, is not altogether on the side that favors the right of the carrier to
stipulate for *exemption from the consequences of his own or
his servants' negligence.
The first recorded case that arose in New York after the
before-mentioned decision in this court, involving the right
of a carrier to limit his liability, was that of Dorrv. The .zvew
Jersey Steam Varigation Company, decided in 1850.* This
case also arose out of the burning of the Lexington, under
a bill of lading which excepted from the company's risk
"danger of fire, water, breakage, leakage, and other accidents." Judge Campbell, delivering the opinion of the
court, says: "A common carrier has in truth two distinct
liabilities,-he one for losse by accident or mistake, where
he is liable as an insurer; the other for losses by default or
negligence, where he is answerable as an ordinary bailee.
It would certainly seem reasonable that he might, by express special contract, restrict his liability as insurer; that
he might protect himself against misfortune, even though
public policy should require that he should not be permitted
to stipulate for impunity where the loss occurs from his own
default or neglect of duty. Such we understand to be the
doctrine laid down in the case of The Nfew Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. The Merchants' Bank, in 6th Howard, and
such we consider to be the law in the present case." And
in Stoddard v. Long Island Railroad Comprany,t another ex* 4 Sandford, 186.

t

Id. 180.

364

RAILROAD COMPAN Y v. LoKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

press case, in which it was stipulated that the express company should be alone responsible for all losses, Judge Duer,
for the court, says': Conforming our decision to that of the
Supreme Court of the United States, we must, therefore,
hold: 1st. That the liability of the defendants as common.
carriers was restricted by the terms of the special agreement
between them and Adams & Co., and that this restriction
was valid in law. 2d. That by the just interpretation of this
agreement the defendants were not to be exonerated from
all losses, but remained liable for such as might result from
the wrongful acts, or the want of due care and diligence
of themselves or their agents and servants. 3d. That the
plaintiffs, claiming through 'Adams & Co., are bound by the
special agreement." The same view was taken in subsequent
cases,* all of which show that no idea was then entertained
of sanctioning .xemptions of liability for negligence.
It was not till 1858, in the case of Welles v. New York Gentral -RailroadCompany,t that the Supreme Court was brought
to assent to the proposition that a common carrier may stipulate against responsibility for the negligence of his servants.
That wasthe case of a gratuitous passenger travelling on a
free ticket, which exempted the company from liability. In
1862 the Court of Appeals by a majority affirmed this judgment,T and in answer to the suggestion that public policy
required that railroad companies should not be exonerated
from the duty of carefulness in' performing their important
and hazardous duties, the court held that the case of free
passengers could not seriously affect the incentives to carefulness, because there were veriyfew such, compared with
the great mass of the travelling Ifblic. - Perkinsv. The 1Vew
York Central Bailroad Company,§.(was -also the case of a free
passenger, with a similar ticket, ifid the court held that the
indorsement exempted the company from all kinds of negligence of its agents, gross as well as ordinary; that there is,
in truth, no practical distinction in the degrees of negligence.
t

Parsons v. Monteath, 13 Barbour, 353; Moore v. Evans, 14 Id. 524.
. lb. 196.
: 24 New York, 181.
26 Id. 641.

-

Oct. 1873.]

RILROAD COMPANY

V.

LocKWOOD.

365

Opinion of the court.

The next cases of importance that arose in the New York
courts were those of drovers' passes, in which the passenger
took all responsibility of injury to himself and stock. The
first was that of Smith v. New York Central -RailroadCompany,* decided in March, 1859. The contract was precisely
the same as that in the present case. The damage arose
from a flattened wheel in the car, which caused it to jump
the track. The Supreme Court, by Hogeboom, J., held that
the railroad company was liable for any injury happening to
the passenger, not only by the gross negligence of the company's servants, but by ordinary negligence on their part.
"For my part," says the judge, "I think not only gross
negligence is not protected by the terms of the contract, but
what is termed ordinary negligence, or the withholding of
ordinary care, is not so protected. I think, notwithstanding
the contract, the carrier is responsible for what, independent
of any peculiar responsibility attached to his calling or employment, would be regarded as fault or misconduct on his
part."

The judge added that he thought the carrier might,

by positive stipulation, relieve himself to a limited degree
from the consequences of his own negligence or that of his
servants. But, to accomplish that object, the contract must
be clear and specific in its terms, and plainly covering such
a case. Of course, this remark was extrajudicial. The
judgment itself was affirmed by the Court of Appeals in
1862 by a vote of five judges to three.t Judge Wright
strenuously contended that it is against public policy for a
carrier of passengers, where human life is at stake, to stipulate for immunity for any want of care. " Contracts in restraint of trade are void," he says, "because they interfere
with the welfare and convenience of the State; yet the State
has a deep interest in protecting the lives of its citizens."
He argued that it was a question affecting the public, and
not alone the party who is carried. Judge Sutherland agreed
in substance with Judge Wright. Two other judges held
-that if the party injured had been a gratuitous passenger the
*29 Barbour, 132.

-t 24 New York, 222.

366

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

company would have been discharged, but in their view he
was not a gratuitous passenger. One judge was for affirmance, on the ground that the negligence was that of the company itself. The remaining three judges held the contract
valid to the utmost extent of exonerating the company, notwithstanding the grossest neglect on the part of its servants.
In that case, as in the one before us, the contract was
general in its terms, and did not specify negligence of agents
as a risk assumed by the passenger, though by its generality
it included all risks.
The next case, Bissell v. The New York Central Bailroad
Company,* first decided in September, 1859, differed from
the preceding in that the ticket expressly stipulated that the
railroad company should not be liable under any circumstances, "whether of negligence by their agents, or otherwise," for
injury to the person or stock of the passenger. The latter
was killed by the express train running into the stock train,
and the jury found that his death was caused by the gross
negligence of the agents and servants of the defendants.
The Supreme Court held that gross negligence (whether of
servants or principals) cannot be excused by contract in
reference to the carriage of passengers for hire, and that
such a contract is against the policy of th6 law, and void.
In December, 1862, this judgment was reversed by the Court
of Appeals,t four judges against three; Judge Smith, who
concurred in the judgment below, having in the meantime
changed his views as to the materiality of the fact that the
negligence stipulated against was that of the servants of the
company, and not of the company itself. The majority now
held that the ticket was a free ticket, as it purported to be,
and, therefore, that the case was governed by Welles v. The
Central Railroad Company; but whether so, or not, the contract was founded on a valid consideration, and the passenger was bound by it even to the assumption of the risk
arising from the gross negligence of the company's servants.
Elaborate opinions were read by Justice Selden in favor,
29 Barboar, 602.

t. 25 New York, 442.

Oct. 1373.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY v.

:LocKWOOD.

367

Opinion of the court.

and by Justice Denio against the conclusion reached by the
court. The former considered that no rule of public policy
forbids such contracts, because the public is amply protected
by the right of every one to decline any special contract, on
paying the regular fare prescribed by law, that is, the highest
amount which the law allows the company to charge." In
other words, unless a man chooses to paythe highest amount
which the company by its charter is authorized to charge,
he must submit to their terms, however onerous. Justice
Denio, with much force of argument, combated this view,
and insisted upon the impolicy and immorality of contracts
stipulating immunity for negligence, either of servants or
principals, where the lives and safety of passengers are concerned. The late case of Poucher v. New York Central Bailroad Company* is in all essential respects a similar -ase to
this, and a similar result was reached.
These are the authorities which we are asked to follow.
Cases may also be found in some of the other State courts
which, by dicta or decision either fiLvor or follow, more or
less closely, the decisions in New York. A reference to the
principal of them is all that is necessary here.t
A review of the cases decided by the cou rts of New York
shows that though they have carried the power of the common carrier to make special contracts to the extent of enabling him to exonerate himself from the 'effects of even
-gross negligence, yet that this effect has never been given
t6 a contract general in its terms. So that if we only felt
bound by those precedents, we could, perhaps, find no authority for reversing the judgment in this case. But on a
* 49 New York, 263.
j Ashmore v. Pennsylvania Steam, &c., Co., 4 Dutcher, 180;. Kinney v.
Central Railroad Co., 3 Vroom, 407; Hale v. New Jersey Steam Navigation
Co., 15 Connecticut, 539; Peck v. Weeks, 34 Id. 145; Lawrence v. New
York Railroad Co., 36 Id. 63; Kimball v. Rutland Railroad Co.; 26 Vermont, 247; Mann v. Birchard, 40 Id. 326; Adams Express Co. v. Haynes. 42
Illinois, 89; Ib. 458; Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. Adams Express Co.,
Ib. 474; Hawkins v. Great Western Railroad Co., 17 Michigan, 57; S. C.,
18 Id. 427; Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co. v. Brady, 32 Maryland, 833;
25 Id. 128; Levering v. Union Transportation Co., 42 Missouri, 88.

RAILIOAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

question of general -commercial law, the Federal courts administering justice in New York have equal and co-ordinate
jurisdiction with-the courts of that State. And in deciding
a case which involves a question of such importance to the
whole country; a question on which the courts of New York
have expressed such diverse views, and have so*recently and
with such slight preponderancy of judicial suffrage, come to
the conclusion that they have, we should not feel satisfied
without being able to -place our decision upon grounds satis,factory to ourselves, and resting upon what we consider
s'ound' principles of law.
'In passing, however, it is apposite to call attention to the
-testimony of an authoritative witness as to the opere.tion
and "effect of the recent decisions referred to. "The fruits
of this rule," says Judge Davis, "are already being gathered
in increasing accidents, through the decreasing care and
vigi nce on the part of these corporations; and they ',ill
continue to be reaped until a just sense of public policy shall
lead to 'legislative restriction upon the power to make this
kind of contracts."*
We now proceed to notice some cases decided in other
Statesi in xihich a differeoit view of the subject is taken.
-In Pennsylvania, it is settled by a long course of decisions,
that a common carrier cannot, by notice or special contract,
limit his liability so 'as to exonerate him from responsibility
for his own nogligence or misifasance, or that of his servants
and agents.t "The aoctrine is firmly settled," says Chief
Justice Thompson, in Farnham v. Camden and Amboy RailroadCormpany,f'1"that a common carrier cannot limit his
liability so as to cover his own or his servants' negligence."
This iuability,,is affirmed both when the exemption stipu"'Stinson v Nef. York Central'Rilroad Co., 3? ewv York, 337.
f Lain' ',. Colder 8 Pennsylvania State, 479; Camden and Amboy Railroad Cu:v..-Baiduaut 16 Id: 67.;- Goldey v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 50 1d:242; -Towbll v Sakme, 32 Id. 414; Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Henderion,
61 Id. 816; Faralian v. Camden and Amboy Railroad Co., 55 Id. 53; Express 'ompany v,"faids, lb. 140; .Empire Transportation Co. v. Wamsutta
Oil Co., 63 Id. 14.
$ 55 Pennsylvdnfai State, 62.

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V,. LOCKWOOD.

869

Opinion of the court.

lated for is general, covering all risks, and where it specifically includes damages arising from the negligence of the
carrier or his servants. In Pennsylvania RailroadCompany v.
ffenderson,* a drover's 'pass stipulated for immunity of the
company in case of injury from negligence of its agents, or
otherwise. The court, Judge Read delivering the opinion,
after a careful review of the Pennsylvania decisions, says:
"This indorsemeut relieves the company from all liability
for any cause whatever, for any loss or injury to the person
or property, however it may have been occasiouei, and our
doctrine, settled by the above decisions, made upon grave
deliberation, declares that such a release is no excuse for
negligence."
The Ohio cases are very decided on this subject, and reject all attempts of the carrier to excuse his own negligence,
or that of his servants.t In Davidsonv. Graham,J the court,
after conceding the right of the carrier to make special contracts to a certain extent, says: "He cannot, however, protect
himself from losses occasioned by his own fault. He exercises
a public employment, and diligence and good faith in the
discharge of his duties are essential to the public interests.
*

. * And

public policy forbids that he should be relieved by

special agreement from that degree of diligence and fidelity
which the law has exacted in the discharge of his duties."
In Welsh v. Pitlsburg,Fort Wayhe, and Chicago Railroad,§ the
court says: "In this State, at least, railroad companies are
rapidly b~coming almost the exclusive carriers both of passengers and goods. In consequence of the public character
and agency which they have voluntarily assumed, the most
important powers and privileges have been granted to them
by the State." From these facts, the court reasons that it is51 Pennsylvania State, 315.
j- Jones v. Voorhees, 10 Ohio, 145; Davidson v. Graham, 2 Ohio State, 131;
Graham v. Davis, 4 Id. 362; Wilson v. Hamilton, lb. 722; Welsh v.Pittsburg, Fort Wayne, and Chicago Railroad, 10 Id. 75; Cleveland Railroad v.
Curran, 19 Id. 1; Cincinnati, &c., Railroad v. Pontius, Ib. 221; Knowlton
v. Erie Railway Co., lb. 260.
10 Id. 75, 76.
$ 2 Ohio State, 131.
VOL. XVII.-

24

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. LocKWOob.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

specially important that railroad companies should be held
to the exercise of due diligence at least. And as to the distinction taken by some, that negligence of servants may be
stipulated for, the court pertinently says- "This doctrine,
when applied to a corporation which can only aqt through
its agents and servants, would secure complete immunity for
the neglect of every duty." And in relation to a drover's
pass, substantially the same as that in the present case, the
.same court, in Cleveland Railroad v. Curran,* held: 1st. That
the holder was not a gratuitous passenger; 2dly. That the
contract constituted no defence against the negligence of
the company-s servants, being against the policy of the law,
and void. The c urt refers to the cases of Bissell v. The
New Yoi-k Central Railroad,t and of Pennsylvania-ailroad v.
llenderson,t and expresses its concurrence in the Pennsylvania decision. This was in Deceniber Term, 1869.
The Pennsylvania and Ohio decisions differ mainly in this,
that the former give to a special contract (when the same is
admissible) the effect of couverting the common carrier into
a special bailee for hire, whose duties are governed by his
contract, and against whom, if negligence ischarged, it
must be proved by'the party injured; whilst the latter hold
that the charadter of the carrier is not changed by the contract, but that he is a common carrier still, with enlarged
exemptions from responsibility, within. which the burden of
proof is on him to show that an injury occurs. The effect
of this difference is to shift the burden of proof from one
party to the other. It is unnecessary to adjuidicate that
point in this case, as the judge on the trial charged the jury,
as requested by the defendants, that the burden of proof
was on the plaintiff.
In Maine, whilst it is held that a common carrier may, by
.tpecial contract; be exempted from responsibility for loss
occasioned by natural causes, such as the weather, fire, heat,
frost, &c.,§ yet in a case where it was stipulated that a railt 25 New York, 442.
* 19 Ohio State, 1, 12, 13.
561 Pennsylvania State, 315.
Fillebrown v. Grand Trunk Railway Co., 55 Maine, 462.

Oct. 1873.] RAILROAD COmPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

371

Opinion of the court.

road company should be exonerated from all damages that
might happen to any horses or cattle that might be sent over
the road, and that the owners should take the risk of all
such damages, the court held that the company were not
thereby excused from the consequences of their negligence,
and that the distinction between negligence and gross negligence in such a case is not tenable. "The very great danger," says the court, "to be anticipated by permitting them"
[common calriers] "to enter into contracts to be exempt
from losses occasioned by miscoDduct or negligence, can

scarcely be overestimated. It would remove the principal
safeguard for the preservation of life and property in such
conveyances."*
To the same purport it was held in Massachusetts in the
late c use of School .Disir'ctv. Boston, &e., Railroad Gompany,t
where the defeudant set up a special contract that certain
iron castings were taken at the owner's risk of fracture or
injury during the course of transportation, loading, and un16ading, and the court say: "The special contract here -set
up is not alleged, and could not by law ie permitted, to exempt the defendants from liability for injuries by their own
negligence."
To the same purport, likewise, are many other decisions
of the State courts, some of which are argued with great
force and are worthy of attentive perusal, but, for want of
room, cau only be referred to here.1
These views as to the impolicy of allowing stipulations
against liability for negligence and misconduct are in acSager v. Portsmouth, 31 Maine, 228, 238.
102 Massachusetts, 552, 556.
1 Indianapolis Railroad v. Allen, 31 Indiana, 394; Michigan Southern
Railroad v. Heaton, 31 Id. 397, note; Flina v. Philadelphia, Wilmington,
and Baltimore Railroad, 1 Houston, 472: Orndorff v. Adams Express Co., 3
Bush, 194; Swindler v. Hilliard & Brooks, 2 Richardson (So. Car.), 286;
Berry v. Cooper, 28 Georgia, 543; Steele v. Townsend 1 37 Alabama, 247;
Southern Express Co. v. Crook, 44 Id. 468; Whitesides v. Thurlkill, 12
Smedes & Marshall, 599; Southern Express-Co. v. Moon, 39 Mississippi, 822;
New Orleans Mutual Insurance Co. v. Railroad Co., 20 Louisiana Annual,
802.

t

RAILROAIY OOMPANY v. LocKWooD.

[Sup. Qt.

Opinion of the court.

cordance with the early English authorities. St. Germain,
in The Doctor and Student,* pointedly says of the common
qa1frier: "If he would per case reftise to carry it" [articles
delivered for car riage] "unless promise were made unto him
that he shall not be charged for no misdemeanor that should
'be in-him, the promise were void, for it were against reason and against good manners, and so it is in all other cases
like."
A century later this passage is quoted -byAttorney-General
Noy in his book of Maxims as unquestioned law.t And so
the law undoubtedly stood in England until comparatively
a very recent, period. Seijeant Steven, in his Commentaries,t after stating that a common carrier's liability, might,
at common law, be varied by contract, adds that the law
still held him responsible for negligence and misconduct.
The question arose in England principally upon public
notices given by common carriers that they would not be
responsible for valuable gooda unless en.tered and paid for
according to value. The courts held that this was. a reasonable condition, and, if brought home to the owner, amounted
to a special contract valid in law. But it was .. held that
it could not exonerate the carrier if a loso occurred by his
actual misfeasance or gross negligence. Or, as Starkie says,
"proof of a direct misfeasance or gross negligence is in
e~ect an answer to proof of:,notice."§ But the term "gross
negligence" was so vague and uncertain that it came to represent every instance of actual negligence of the carrier or
his servant-or ordinary negligence in the accustomed mode
of speaking.1J Justice Story, in his work on bailments,
originally published in 1832, says that it is now held that, in
cases of such notices, the carrier is liable for losses and injury occasioned not only by gross negligence, but by ordinary negligence; or, in other words, the carrier is bound to
ordinary diligence.
Vol. 2, p. 185.
V
t Noy's Maxims, 92.
Dialogue 2, c. 38.
2
edition.
05,
6th
American
vol.
2,
p.,
:Evidence,
11Hinton v. Dibbin, 2 Adolphus & Ellis, new series, 649; Wyld v. PickSee. 571.
ford, 8 Meeson & Welsby, 4"".

*

*

Oct. 1878.]

RAILRtOAD ComPANY V. LoCKWOOD.
Opinion of the court.

In estimating the effect of these decisions it must be remembered that, in the cases covered by the notices referred
to, the exemption claimed was entire, covering all cases of
loss, negligence as well as others. They are, therefore,
directly in point.
In 1863, iA the great case of Peel- v. The North Staffordshire
Bailway Company,* Mr. Justice Blackburn, in the course of
a very clear and able review of the law ou the subject, after
quoting this passage friom Justice Story's work, proceeds to
say: "In my opinion, the weight of authority was, in 1832,
in favor of this view of the law, but the cases decided in our
courts between 1832 and 1854 established that this was not
the law, and that a carrier might, by a special notice, make
a contract limiting his responsibility even in the cases here
mentioned, of gross negligence, misconduct, or fraud on the
part of his servants; and, as it seems to me, the reason why
the legislature intervened in the Railway and Canal Traffic
Act, 1854, was because it thought that the companies took
advantage of those decisions (in Story's language), ' to evade
altogether the salutary policy of the common law.' "
This quotation is sufficient to show the state of the law in
England at the time of the publication of Justice Story's
work; and it proves that, at that time, common carriers
could not stipulate for immunity fo " their own or their servants' negligence. But in th6 case of Uzr v. Lancashire
Railroad company,t and other cases -decided whilst the
change of opinion alluded to by Justice Blackburn was
going on (several of which related to the carriage of horses
and cattle), it was held that carriers could stipulate for exemption from liability for even their own gross negligence.
Hence the act of 1854 was passed, called the Railway and
Canal Traffic Act, declaring that railway and canal companies should be liable for negligence of themselves or their
servants, notwithstanding any notice or condition, unless
the court or judge trying the cause should adjudge the conditions just and reasonable.1 Upon this statute ensued a
10 House of Lords Cases, 473.
$ 1 Fisher's Digest, 1466.

t" 7 :Exchequer, 707.

RAILRtOAD CoMPANY v. LOCKwOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

long list of cases deciding what conditions were or were not
just and reasonable. .The truth is, that thi§-statute did little
more thn bring back the law to the original position in
which it stood before the English codrts took their departure
from it. But as we shall have occasion to advert to this subject again, we pass it for the present.
It remains to see what has been held by this court on the
subject now under consideration.
We have already referred to the leading case of The New
Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. Merchants' Bank.* On
the precise pbint now under consideration, Justice Nelson
said, "If it is competent at all for the carrier to stipulate for
the gross negligence of himself and his*servants or agents,
in the transportation of goods, it should be required to be
done, at least, in terms that would leave no doubt as to the
meaning of the parties."
As to carriers of passengers, Mr. Justice Grier, in the case
of Philadelphia and Beading Railroad v. _Derbyt delivering
the opinion of the court, said: "When carriers undertake
to convey persons by the powerful but dangerous agency of
steam, public policy and safety require that they be held to
the greatest possible care and diligence. And whether the
consideration for such transportation be pecuniary or otherwise, the personal safety of the passengers should not be left
to the sport of chance, or thp negligence of careless agents.
Any negligence, in such cases, may well deserve the epithet
of ' gross.'" That was the case of a free passenger, a stockholder of the company, taken over the road by the president
to examine its condition; and it was contended in argument that, as to him, nothing but "gross negligence" would make
the company liable. In the subsequent case of The Steamboat New World v. KingT which was also the case of a free
passenger carried on a steamboat, and injured by the explosion of'the boiler, Curtis, Justice, delivering the judgment,
quoted the above proposition of Justice Grier, and said:
"We desire to be understood to- reaffirm that doctrine, as
* 6 Howard, 883.

t 14 Id. 486.

s16 1i1. 469, 474.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LocKwoOD.

375

Opinion of the court.

resting not only on public policy, but on sound principles
of law."
In York Company v. Central Railroad,*the court, after conceding that the responsibility imposed on the carrier of
goods by the common law may be restricted and qualified
by express stipulation, adds: "When such stipulation is
made, and it does not cover losses from negligence or misconduct, we can perceive no just reason for refusing its
recognition and enforcement." In the case of Walker v.
The TransportationCompany, decided at the same term,t it is
true, the owner of a vessel destroyed by fire on the lakes,
was held not to be responsible for the negligence of the
officers and agents having charge of the vessel; but that
was under the act of 1851, which the court held to apply to
our great lakes as well as to the sea. And in Express Company v. Kountze Brothers,j where the carriers were sued for
the loss of gold-dust delivered to them on a bill of lading
excluding liability for any loss or damage by fire, act of
God, enemies of the government, or dangers incidental to a
time of war, they were held liable for a robbery by-a predatory band of armed men (one of the excepted risks), because
they negligently and needlessly took a route which was ex*posed to such incursions, The judge, at the trial, charged
the jury that although the ccntract was legally sufficient to
restrict the liability of the defendants as common carriers,
yet if they were guilty of actual negligence, they were responsible; and that they were chargeable with negligence
unless they exercised the care and prudence of a prudent
man in his own affairs. This was hield by this court to be a
correct statement of the law.
Some of the above citations are only expressions of opinion,
it is true; but they are the expressions of judges whose
opinions are entitled to much weight; and the last-cited
case is a judgment upon the precise point. Taken in connection with the concurring decisions of State courts before cited, they seem to us decisive of the question, and
*

"Wallace, 113.

t lb. 150.

$8 Id. 342, 353.

376

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

[SUP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

leave but little to be added to the considerations which they
suggest.
It is argued that. a common carrier, by entering into a
special contract with a party for carrying his goods or person on modified terms, drops his character and becomes an
ordinary bailee for hire, and, therefore, may make any contract he pleases. That is, he may make any contract whatever, because he is an ordinary bailee; and he is an ordinary
bailee because he has made the contract.
W.e are unable to see the soundness of this reasoning. It
seems to us more accurate to say that common carriers are
such"by virtue of their occupation, not by virtue of the responsibilities under which they rest. Those responsibilities
may vary in different countries, and at different times, without changing the character of the employment. The common law subjects the common carrier to insurance of the
goods carried, except as against the .act of God or public
enemies. The civil law excepts, also, losses by means of
any superior force, and any inevitable accident. Yet the
employment is the same in both cases. And if by special
agreement the carrier is exempted from still other responsibilities, it does not follow that his employment is changed,
but only that his responsibilities are changed. The theory
occasionally announced, that a special contract as to the
terms and responsibilities of.-carriage changes the nature
of the employment, is calculated to mislead. The responsibilities of a common carrier may be reduced to those of an
ordinary bailee for hire, whilst the nature of his business
renders him a common carrier still. Is there any good sense
in holding that a railroad company, whose only business is
to carry passengers and goods, and which was created and
established for that purpose alone, is changed to a private
carrier for hire by a mere contract with a customer, whereby
the latter assumes the risk of inevitable accidenuz in the
carriage of his goods. Suppose the contract relates to a
single crate of glass or crockery, whilst at the same time the
carrier receives from the same person twenty other parcels,
respecting which no such contract is made. Is the company

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPA.NY V. LoCKWOOD.

377

Opinion of the court.

a public carrier as to the twenty parcels and a private carrier as to the one ?
On this point there are several authorities which support
our view, some of which are noted in the margin.*
A common carrier may, undoubtedly, become a private
carrier, or a bailee for hire, when, as a matter of accommodation or special engagement, he undertakes to carry something which it is not his business to carry. For example, if
a carrier of produce, running a truck boat between New
York City and Norfolk, should be requested to carry a keg
of specie, or a load of expensive furniture, which he could
justly refuse to take, such agreement might bemade in reference to his taking and carrying the same as the parties
chose to make, not involving any stipulation contrary to law
or public policy. But when a carrier has a regularly established business for carrying all or certain articles, and especially if that carrier be a corporation created for the purpose
of the carrying trade, and the carriage of the articles is
embraced within the scope of its chartered powers, it is a
common carrier, and a special contract about its responsibility does not divest it of the character.
But it is contended that though a carrier may not stipulate for his own negligence, there is no good reason why he
should not be permitted to stipulate for immunity for the
negligence of his servants, over whose actions, in his absence, he can exercise no control. If we advert for a moment to the fundamental principles on which the law-of
common carriers is founded, it will be seen that this objection is inadmissible. In regulating the public establishment
of common carriers, the great object of the law was to secure
the utmost care and diligence in the performance of their
important duties-an object essential to the welfare of every
civilized community. Hence the common-law rule which
charged the common carrier as an insurer. Why charge
him as such? Plainly for the purpose of raising the most
* Davidson v. Graham, 2 Ohio State, 131; Graham v. Davis & Co., 4 Id.
362; Swindler v. Hilliard, 2 Richardson, 286; Baker v. Brinson, 9 Id. 201;
Steele v. Townsend, 37 Alabama, 247.

378

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

stringent motive for the exercise of carefulness and fidelity
in his trust. In regard to passengers the highest degree of
careftilness and diligence is expressly exacted. In the one
case the securing of the most exact diligence and fidelity
underlies the law, and is the reason for it; in the other it is
directly and absolutely prescribed by the law. It is obvious,
therefore, that if a carrier stipulate not to be bound to the
exercise of care and diligence, but to be at liberty to indulge in the contrary, he seeks to Put off the essential duties
of his eniployment. And to assert that he may do so seenis
almost a contradiction in terms.
Now, to what avail does the law attach these essential duties to the employment of the common carrier, if they may
be waived in respect to his agents and servants, especially
where the carrier is an artificial being, incapable of acting
except by agents and servants? It is carefulness and diligence in performing the service which the law demands, not
an abstract carefulness and diligence in-proprietors and
stockholders who take no active part in the business. To
admit such a distinction in the law of common carriers, as
the business is now carried on, would be subversive of the
very object of the~law.
'It is a favorite argument in the cases which favor the extension of the carrier's right to contract for exemption from
liability, that men must be permitted to make their own
agreemi nts, and that it is no concern of the public on what
terms anindividual cht oses to have his goods carried. Thus,
in Dorr v. The New Jersey Steam Navigation Company,* the'
court sums up its judgment thus: "To say the parties have
not a right to make their own contract, and to limit the precise extent of their own respective risks and liabilities, in a
matter no way affecting the public morals, or conflicting.
with the public interests, would, in my judgment, be an unwarrantable restriction upon trade and commerce, and a
most palpable invasion of personal right."
Is it true that the public interest is not affected by indi1 Kernan, 485.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY v. LOCKWOOD.

Opinion of the court.

vidual contracts of the kind referred to ? Is not the whole
business community aflected by holding such contracts valid?
If held valid, the advantageous, position of the companies
exercising the business of common carriers is such that it
places it in their power to change the law of common carriers in effect, by introducing new rules of obligation.
The carrier and his customer do not stand on a footing of
equality. The latter is only one individual of a million.
He cannot afford to higgle or stand out and seek redress in
the courts. His business will not admit such a course. He
prefers, rather, to accept any bill of lading, or sign any
paper the carrier presents; often, indeed, without knowing
what the one or the other contains. In most cases, he has no
alternative but to do this, or abandon his business. In the
present case, for example, the-freight agent of the company
testified that though they made forty or fifty contracts every
week like that under consideration, and had carried on the
business for years, no other arrangement than this was ever
made with any drover. And the reason is obvious enough,if they did not accept this, they must pay tariff rates. These
rates were 70 cents a hundred pounds for carrying from
Buflido to Albany, and each horned animal was rated at
2000 pounds, making a charge of $14 for every animal carried, instead of the usual charge of $70 for a car-load; being a
ditffrence of three to one. Of course no drover could afford
to pay such tariff rates. This fact is adverted to for the
purpose of illustrating how completely in the power of the
railroad companies parties are; and how necessary it is to
stand firmly by those principles of law by which the public
interests are protected.
If tle customer had any real freedom of choice, if he had
a reasonable and practicable alternative, and if the employment of the carrier were not a public one, charging him
with the duty of accommodating the public in the line of
his employment; then, if the customer chose to assume the
risk of negligence, it could with more reason be said to be
his private affair, and no concern of the public. But the
condition of things is entirely different, and especially so

880

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under the modified arrangements which the carrying trade
has.assumed.. The business is mostly concentrated in a few
powerful corporations, whose position in the body politic
enables them to control it. They do, in fact, control it, and
impose such conditions upon travel and transportation as
they see fit, which the public is compelled to accept. These
circumstances furnish an additional argument, if any were
needed, to show that the conditions imposed by common carriers ought not to be adverse (to say the least) to the dictates
of public policy and morality. The status aud relative position of the parties render tiny such conditions void. Contracts of common carriers, like those of persons occupying
a fiduciary character, giving them a position in which they
can take undue advantage of the persons with whom they
contract, must rest upon their fairness and reasonableness.
It was for the reason that the limitations of liability first introduced by common carriers into their notices and bills of
lading were just and reasonable, that the courts sustained
them. It was just and reasonable that they should not be
responsible for losses happening by sheer accident, or dangers of navigation that no human skill or vigilance could
guard against; it was just and reasonable that they should
not be chargeable for money or other valuable articles liable
to be stolen or damaged, unless apprised of their character or
value; it was just and reasonable that they should not be responsible for articles liable to rapid decay, or fo" live animals
liable to get unruly from fright and-to injure themselves in
that state, when such articles or live animals became injured
without their fault or negligence. '-And when any of these
just and reasonable excuses were incorporated into notices
or special contracts assented to by their customers, the law
might well give effect to them without the violation of any
important principle, although modifying the strict rules of
responsibility imposed by the comnmon law. The improved
state of society and the better administration of the laws,
had diminished the opportunities of collusion and bad faith
on the part of the carrier, and rendered less imperative the
application of the iron rule, that he must be responsible at

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LooxWOD.

381

Opinion of the court.

all events. Hence, the exemptions referred to were deemed.
reasonable and proper to be allowed. But the proposition
to allow a public carrier to abandon altogether his obligatiofis to the public, and to stipulate for exemptions that are
unreasonable and improper, amounting to an abdication of
the essential duties of his employment, would never have
been entertained by the sages of the law.
Hence, as before remarked, we regard the English statute
called the Railway and Canal Traffic Act, passed in 1854,
which declared void all notices and conditions made by
common carriers except such as the judge, at the trial, 'or
the courts should hold just and reasonable, as substantially
a return to the rules of the common law. It would have
been more srictly so, perhaps, had -the reasonableness of
the contract been referred to the law instead of the individual
judges. The decisions made for more than half a century
before the courts commenced the abnormal course which
led to the necessity of that statute, giving effect to certain
classes of exemptions stipulated for by the carrier, may
be regarded as authorities on the question as to what exemptions are just and reasonable. So the decisions of our
own courts are entitled to like effect when not made under
the fallacious notion that every-.pecial contract imposed by
the common carrier on his customers must be carried into
effect, for the simple reason that it was entered into, without
regard to the character of the contract and the relative situation of the parties.
Conceding, therefore, tbatspecial contracts, mpade by common carriers with their customers, limiting their liability,
are good and valid so far as they are just and redsonable;
to the extent, for example,,of excusing them for all losses
happening by accident, without any negligence or fraud on
their part; when they ask to go still further, and to be excused for negligence-an excuse so repugnant to the law of
their foundation and to the public good-they have no longer
any plea of justice or reason to support such a stipulation,
but the contrary. And then, the inequality of the parties,
the compulsion under which the customer is placed, and the

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LOCKWOOD.

[Sup. qt.

Opinion of the court.

obligations of the carrier to the public, operate with full
force to divest the transaction of yalidity.
On this subject the remarks of Chief Justice Redfield, in
his recent collection of American Railway Cases, seem to us
eminently just. "It being clearly established, then," says
he, "that common carriers have public duties which they
are bound to discharge with impartiality, we must conclude
that they canot, either by notices or special contracts, release themselves from the performance of these public duties,
even by the consent of those who employ them ;for all extortion is done by the apparent consent of the victim. -.A
public officer or servant, who has h monopoly in his department, has no just right to impose onerous and unreasonable
conditions upon those who are compelled to employ him."
And his conclusion is, that notwithstanding some exceptional decisions, the law of to-day stands substantially as follows: "1. That the exemption claimed by carriers must be
reasonable and just, otherwise it will be regarded as extorted
from the owners of the goods by duress of circumstances,
and therefore not binding. 2. That every attempt of carriers, by general notices or special contract, to excuse themselves from responsibility for losses or dfamages resulting in
any degree from their. own want of care and faithfulness, is
against that good faith which the law requires as the basis
of all contracts or employments, and, they efore, based upon
principles and a policy which the law will not uphold."
The defendants endeavor to make a distinction between
gross and ordinary negligence, and insist that the judge
ought to have charged that the contract was at least effective
for excusing the latter.
We have already adverted to the tendency of judicial
opinion adverse to the distinction between gross and ordinary negligence. Strictly speaking, these expressions are
indicative rather of the degree of care and diligence which is
due from a party and which he fails to perform, than of the
amount of inattention, carelessness, or stupidity which he
exhibits. If very little care is due from him, aad'he fails to
bestow that little, it i&called gross negligence. Ifvery great

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. LoCKwooD.

383

Opinion of the court.

care is due, and he fails to come up to the mark required, it
is called slight negligence. And if ordinary care is due,
such as a prudent man would exercise in his own affairs,
failure to bestow that amount of care is called ordinary negligence. In each .case, the negligence, whatever epithet we
give it, is failure to bestow the care and skill which the situation demands; and hence it is more strictly accurate .perAnd this seems to be
haps to call it simply "negligence."
the tendency of modern authorities.* If they mean more
than this, and seek to abolish the distinction of degrees of
care, skill, and diligence required in the performance of
various duties and the fulfilment of various contracts, we
think they go too far; since the requirement of different degrees of care in different situations is too firmly settled and
fixed in the law to be ignored or changed. The compilers
of the French Civil Code undertook to abolish these distinotions by 'enacting that "every act whatever of man that
causes damage to another, obliges him by whose fault it
happened to repair it."t Toullier, in his commentary on the
code, regards this as a happy thought, and a return to the
law of 'nature.1 But such an iron rule is too regardless of
the foundation principles of human duty, and must often
operate with great severity and injustice.
In the case before us, the law, in the absence of special
contract, fixes the degree of care and diligence due from the
railroad company to the persons carried on its trains. A
failure to exercise such care and diligence is negligence. It
needs no epithet properly and legally to describe it. If it is
against the policy of the law to allow stipulations which will
relieve the company from-the exercise of that care and diligence, or which, in other words, will excuse them for negli* 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 453, 7th American edition; Story on Bailments, 571; Wyld %. Pickford, 8 Meeson & Welsby, 460; Hinton v. Dib
bin, 2 Queen's Beneb, 661; Wilson v. Brett, 11 Meeson & WVelsby, 115;
Beal v.South Devon Railway Co., 3 Hurlstone & Coltman, 337; Grill v.Iron
Screw Collier Co., Law Reports, 1 Common Pleas, 600; Philadelphia &
Reading Railroad Co. v.Derby, 14 Howard, 486; Steamboat New World
et al. v. King, 16 Id. 474.
l Vol. 6, p. 243.
f Art. 1382.

STITT V. HuIDEKOPERS.

-,[$up.
Or.
[

Syllabus.

gence in the-performance of that duty, then the company
remains liable forsuch ngligence, The, question whether
the company was guilty of negligence in, this, ase, which
caused ,the injury sustained by the plaintiff, was fairly left
to the jury. It was unnecessary to tell them,whether, in
the language oflaw writers, such negligence would be called
gross or ordinary.
The conclusions to which we have come areFirst. That a common carrier cannot lawfully stipulate
for exemption from responsibility when such exemption is
not just and reasonable in the eye of the law.
. Secondly.. That it is not just and reasonable in the eye of
the law for a, common carrier to stipulate for exemption
from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants.
Thirdly. That il~ese rules apply both to, carriers of goods
and carriers of passeugers for hire, and with special force to
the latter.
Fourthly. That a drover travelling on a pass, such as was
giyeh in this case, for the purpose of taking care of his stock
on the train, is a passenger for hire.
These conclusions decide the present case, and require a
judgment of affirmance. We purposely abstain from expressing any opinion as to what would have been the result
of our judgment had weconsidered the plaintiff a free passenger instead •of a passenger for hire.
JUDGMENT,

D.IRMED.

STITT V. HUIDEKOPERS.

1. It is a rule o evidence that, ordinarily, a witness who testifies to an
affirmative is entitled to credit in preference to one who testifies to a
negative, because the latter may have forgotten what actually occurred,
while it is impossible to remember what never existed.
2. An offer to sell at a fixed price, whether accompanied with an agency to
sell to others or not, may be revoked at any time prior to the acceptance of, the offer, unless there is an express agreement on good considera-

