Oct. 1873.]

REED v. GARDNER.

Statement of the case.

mum number allowed by law, beyond those necessary for
the command of such reduced number.
It is quite consistent with a reduction of Company D below the minimum for a company, that the regiment was not
below the minimum for a regiment. Indeed, it is unreasonable to suppose that because a single company is reduced
below the minimum, that the regiment is for that reason to
be so treated, and to have no more officers appointed in it
until that company is filled up.
There is no finding, nor any allegation, in the present
case, that the regiment was below the miuimuin, and, therefore, this act does not apply. Nor are we pointed by counsel to any law or reg-ulation of the service whi ch fixes what
is the minimum of a regiment of volunteer infantry. Nor
does the Court of Claims find any facts from which, if we
had such a law or regulation before us, we could decide
whether this regiment, or, indeed, this company, was in fact
below the mininium as established by law at the time the
claimant offered himself for muster.
Under these circumstances, the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be
AFFIRMED.

REED V. GARDNER.
In passing upon the questions presented in a bill of exceptions this court will
not look beyond the bill itself. The pleadings and the statements of the
bill, the verdict and the judgment are the only matters that are properly
before it. Depositions, exhibits, or certificates not contained in the bill,
cannot be considered by the court. The court declares its intention to
adhere to what is above presented as its practice; and declares further
that the case of Flandersv. Tweed (9 Wallace, 425), was exceptional.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Georgia.
Gardner sued Reed in the court below. His declaration
alleged that one Wilson had delivered to the defendant cotton, upon an agreement that he, the defendant, would sell

410

R EED v.

GARlDNER.

[Sup. Ct.

IReply.

the same, and out of the proceeds pay to him, Gardner, the
plaintiff, $4000, in which sum the saidWilson was indebted

to Gardner; that the property was sold, that the net proceeds were $9000; by means whereof the defendant-became
liable to pay to the plaiiitiff the $4000, and that he refused
to pay the same. To this the defendant interposed a general
denial and several special pleas. A trial was had, and verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiff, the
defendant brought the case here.
The bill of exceptions contained no statement of the evidence, or of the facts upon which the questions arose. It
consisted only of the charge' of the, judge, and df requests.
and refusals to charge. There was, however, in the-transcript a number of depositions,. exhibits, certificates, &c.,
which appeared to have been used in the trial of the case.
.Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson,for the plaintiffs in error,
stating a case shown, as they conceived, by these, sought toshow on it, that there had been error in the action of the
court below.

.Mr. Tw. Jr. Boyce, contra, argued that striking out the depositions, exhibits, certificates, &c., improvidently incorporated in the transcript, no such case as the counsel sought
to put before the court was found in what remained, the
true record, i. e., the pleadings, bill of exceptions, verdict,
and judgment; and asked for an affirinance.
.Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson replied that-it could not be
doubted that such evidence as was contained-in the depositions, exhibits, certificates, &c., had been, in fact, given,
and that the charge of the judge was based upon it; and
suggested that if this court should think that the evidence
was not put into the record in prope; form, then, that, as in
Jweed v..Planders,* the judgment shoult be reversed and
the cause remanded for a new trial; this course being more
* 9 Wallace, '425, 432.

Oct. 1873.]

RAY V. SMITH.
Syllabus.

conducive to justice than to affirm a judgment' in a case
where it plainly appeared that the court mistook the law,
though the mistake might not be so presented as to be capable of being corrected by this court.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been frequently held by this court, that in passing
upon the questions presented in a bill of exceptions, it will
not look beyond the bill itself.* The pleadings, and the
statements of the bill, the verdict, and the judgment, are
the only matters that are properly before the court. iDepositions, exhibits, or certificates not contained in the bill, cannot be considered by the court. The case of Flandersv.
Tweed, was exceptional. The court intend to adhere to this
practice.
Under this rule there is then nothing whatever in the
present case for the court to pass upon.
It is impossible upon a record such as this is, that we
should know whether the charge is correct or erroneous, or
,whether the refusals to charge as requested were justified,
or whether they were improper.
As already said, there is absolutely nothing presented to
this court for consideration.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAY V. SMITH.
1. Although it may be conceded that notice of demand and non-payment
of a note need not be given to an indorser who has received funds from
the maker, indisputably and only for the purpose of paying the note
whenever presented (an indorser in such a case becoming liable as a
principal debtor), yet as such a rule does not apply when the indorser
having funds of the maker has them not in that way, but only from the
profits of a business in conducting which he was a partner of the maker,
and is simply authorized to apply the funds so in his hands to the pay* Norris v. Jatikson, 9 Wallace, 125; Lincoln v. Claffin, 7 Id. 136; Left-

wich v. Lecanu, 4 Id. 187; iRussell v. Ely, 2 Black, 580.

