AVERILL V. SMITH.

[Sap. Ct.

Statement of the case.

AVERILL V. S IITH.
Trepass will not lie against a collector of interial revenue for improperly
seizing and carrying away goods as forfeited, where, on information'afterwards filed the marshal has returned that he has seized and attached
them, and where after-a trial absolving them a certificate of probable
cause has been granted under the eighty-ninth section of the act of February 24th, 1807, and where the owner of the goods has never made any
claim of the collector for them except by bringing the action of trespass.
The claimant of the goods after a trial where probable cause has been certified, ought to move the court for the necessary orders to cause the
property to be returned to-the rightful owners, if the court have itself
omitted to make such an order. It is not the duty of either the marshal
or collector to do so.

EaROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
New York.
AN act of Congress of February 24th, 1807,* enacts:
"That when any prosecution shall be commenced on account
of the seizure of any ship or vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise, made by any collector or other officer, under any act of
Congress, authorizing such seizre, and judgment shall be given
,for the claimant or claimants, if it shall appear to the court be,fore whom such prosecution shall be tried, that there was a
!reasonable cause of seizure, the said court shall cause a proper
-certificate or entry to be made' thereof; and in such case the
claimant or claimants shall not be entitled to costs, nor shall the
person who made the seizure, or the prosecutor, be liable to
action, suit, or judgment on account of such seizure and prosecution; provided, that the ship or vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise,

be, after judgment, forthwith returned to such claimantor claimants,
his, her, or.their agent or agents."

The 89th section of the Customs Act of March, 1799,t
contains a provision substantially the same.
These statutory- provisions being in force, one Smith
brought trespass against Averill, a collector of internal revenue,
for taking and cati'ying away certain barrels of whisky.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and gave notice, under
the practice of the second circuit, of his defences.
*2 Stat. at Large, 422.

t- I Id. 696.

Dep. 1872.]

AVERILL V. SM*ITH.

83

Argument for the collector.

The case was tried, and a special verdict found as follows:
"That the derbndant, being a collector of internal revenue,
on the 4th of February, 1868, seized as forfeited to the United
States, and carried away, and deposited in a'storehouse at Corning, the whisky mentioned; the same then being in the possession of and owned by the plaintiff; that an information was
filed against the same in the District Court of the United States
foi the said district; that on the 15th of May, 1868, a deputy
of the marshal of the district presented to the defendant a process of the said District Court, commanding him, the said marshal, to seize the said property; that the marshal made return
t-hat on the 4th of May, 1868, he did seize and attach the said
property, and had duly cited all persons to appear and assert
their claims thereto; that he did not at any time notify-to the
person having possession of, and in whose warehouse the said
whisky was stored by the said defendant, that he, the said
marshal, had taken possession thereof; that a claim and answer
to the said prol)erty was put in by Smith, the plaintiff, as o rner
thereof; that a trial was had and a judgment entered that the
property did not become forfeited, but that the same belonged
to said Smith, the plaintiff; that afterwards, the said court adjudged and certified that there was probable cause for tho said
seizure; that the plaintiff had never made claim of the defendant for the said property except by bringing the said action;
neither had said property, or any part thereof, ever been returned to the plaintiff, nor had, any offer been made to return
the same, but that the same still remained in such storehouse at
Corning aforesaid."
On this verdict judgment was entered for the plaintiff, and
to review that judgment the defendant prosecuted this writ

of error.
Mr. G.
. Williams, Attorney-General,and -Mr.Cf..H
Assistant Attorney- General,for the plain tiff in error:

;11,

Upon the facts shown by the special verdict, an action of
trespass will not lie against the defendant.
The second resolution in the Six Carpenters' Case,* was
8 Reports, 146; S. C., 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 216.

[Sup. or.

AVERILL V. SMITH.

Argument for the collector.

"that not doing cannot make the party who has the authority or license by the law a trespasser ab initio, because not
doing is no trespass; and, therefore, if the lessor distrains
for his rent, and thereupon the lessee tenders him the rent
in arrear, &c., and requires his beasts again, and he will not
deliver them, this not doing cannot make him a trespasser
ab initio." This principle has been universally recognized.
In West v. Nibbs,* it was held "that a landlord who has accepted the rent in arrear, and the expenses of the distress,
after the impounding, cannot be treated as a trespasser
merely because he retains possession of the goods distrained,
although his refusal to deliver them up to the tenant may
amount to a conversion so as to render him liable in trover."
And Gardner v. Oarnpbell,t Smith v. Egginton,t Waterbury v.
Lockwood,ยง Jacobsohn v. Blake,1] and other authorities collected and to be seen in the last edition of Smith's Leading
Cases, affirm this rule. The certificate of rrobable cause
showed that the original seizure of the goods was lawful,
and threw the onus probandiupon the claimants.
There was an omission, too, in the judgment of the District Court to make any order in respect of the return of
the goods. The goods were not in the possession of the collector. The marshal had taken them out of his possession
by order of a writ directed to him; and, of course, thenceforth they were in possessio* of the court. The collector
had nothing more to do with them. He could not return
them to the plaintiff. The goods being in possession of the
court, the plaintiff should himself have come into court and
.asked to have them back, when he would have received them
as of course.
B ut whatever effect this absence of an order in respect to
the return of the goods may have had upon the rights of the
parties on the judgment in the District Court, it was necessary for the owner to have taken active measures in some
4 Common Bench, 172.

t 7 Adolphus &. Ellis, 167.
II 6 Munning & Granger, 918,

t 15 Johnson, 401.

4 Day, 257.
924.
Seventh edition, vol. 1st, note to The Six Carpenters' Case.

:Dec. 1872-1

AvERILL V. SMITHo
Argument for the distiller.

form to recover his property, and to have encountered a refusal; and, without deciding whether he has a remedy in
trover or replevin, it is clear on the authorities that the
present action will not lie.
312% .f.T. Cooke, contra:
The case shows a trespass. The defendant, without process,
seized, took, and carried away plaintiff's property. The
cases cited on the other side, save one, were for acts of officers proceeding upon execution or process of the court. In
Gardnerv. Campbell, the defendant took the plaintiff's goods
under and by virtue of an execution, and it was decided,
simply, that replevin would not lie. This case has no bearing except to show that plaintiff herein could not have
replevied the goods if the position of plaintiff in error is
correct.
In Smith v. Egginton, and Waterbury v. Lockwood, the defendant, an officer, was acting under process of the court
directing the seizure of the goods of defendant named in
the process. The court seized them. The case of Jacobsohn
v. Blake, so far as it has any bearing, is against the position
claimed. The officer there did not seize the goods, and it
was upon this ground that the judges decided the ease.
Tindal, 0. J., says:
"In order to maintain such an action (trespass) there must
have been an actual seizure of plaintiff's goods."
The goods were simply examined and returned. In the
suit at bar they were seized, carried away, and never returned.
The property, when the collector seized it, was put into a
warehouse not owned by himself. The marshal attached
the property, and gave the proper notices; but he did not
remove the prioperty from the warehouse where it was deposited by the collector's order; and, so far as appears from
the special verdict, he did not in any way interfere with the
possession of it by the warehouseman, as the bailee of the
collector.

-[SIp. Ot.

AVERILL V. SMITH.
Argument for the distiller.

Assume, however, for the purposes of the argument, that
the return of the marshal is conclusive, and that either by
the iudorsemeut and delivery to him of the warehouse receipt for the property, or otherwise, he h ad properly executed his process, and afterwards held the property under
legal arrest until it was discharged by the judgment of, the
District Court.
The question then to be determined is, whether the certificate of reasonable cause, granted by the. District Court,
is a good defence to this action;, as the property s~ized was
never returned or offered to be returned to the owner.
Iii'a case like that complained of here, probable and reason abl e',cause is confessedly no defence, except where some
statute creates and defines the exemption from darnages.*
In this case the exemption is claimed under the first section of the act of the 24th of February, 1807, and the eightyninth section of the Customs Act of 1799. Now the case
of IToit v. ffook,t decided, in the.Supreme Judicial Court,
of Massachusetts, by Chief Justice Parker, and Justices
Thatcher, Putuam, and Wild, in. 1817, seems in point.
The property in tlat case (certain cattle) liad been seized
and libelled and then sold, penden1e lite, under the order of
the Distict Court of the United States. Afterit had been
sol'd the cause was tried, and Hoit, the plaintiff, as the then
claimant, had a verdict. The district judge thereupon decreed that the property was not liable to forfeiture; that
there was reasonable cause fdi- the seizure; that $384.43 for
the expenses, which had been incurred for the custody and
sustenance of'the cattle should be deducted fromthe proceeds of sale; add that the residue, $151.57, should be paid
to the claimant.
A verdict having been taken for the plaintiff in the State
court, subject to the opinion of that court, upon the facts
stated, the question whether the certificate and decree of the
District Court were a defence was argued, and the court decided that the certificate of reasonable cause could operate
*The Akpollon,- 9 W~heaton, 362, 373.

t" 14 Massachusetts, 210.

Dec. 1872.]

.AVERIrLL V. SMITH.
Argument for the distiller.

as a bar to an action only when the property was restored,
according to the proviso in the statutes above referred to,
and ordered judgment for the plaintiff on the verdict.
This case was decided by judges of the highest character
for learning and ability.
In the case before us all will agree that it was not the
duty of the marshal to make return of the property, to the
claimant; and that the District Court could only require
him to release the property fron the arrest. But if it were
the duty of the marshal to make the return, and the court
had power to require him to perform such duty, it would
nevertheless be very doubtful whether the marshal's neglect
of duty would not prevent the statute from operating as a
p.otection to the defendant. The return of the property
forthwith after judgment is a condition precedent to the exemption from liability declared by the statute; and it is
clear that it was the intention of Conjgress that a failure'to
make such return should fix the liability of the seizing officer. If the marshal neglected his duty to the injury of the
seizing officer, the latter must seek his remedy against the
marshal; and if any application to the District Court was
necessary to secure such return, it was the defendant's duty,
aiid not that of the plaintiff, to take care that such application was made, in order to secure the protection of the
statute.
But the marshal had no such duty imposed upon him in
this case. The defendant of course was liable to the warehouseman for storage, for which the latter could probably
retain the possession of the property-at least as against the
defendant-and perhaps as against the plaintiff, and against
the marshal after the order or judgment of the District
Court that the property should be discharged, and that there
was reasonable cauge for the seizure.
It is enough to require a citizen, when his goods have
been seized and not forfeit6d, to come into court and establish his title by judgment of the court; and when this has
been done, and the party who has committed the admitted
and gross wrong is protected by what is called a "certificate

A VERILL V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

of probable cause," it is -little enough to require him to
return the goods, or procure their return, and especially
where they remain under his own personal control, as it
can.hardly be doubted that they did in this case.
The judgment upon the verdict in favor of the'plaintiff
was right, and the judgment should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Judgments rendered in the Circuit Court, in any civil
action against a collector or other officer of the revenue, for
any act done by him in the performance of his official duty,
or for the recovery of any money exacted by or paid to him,
which shall have been paid into the treasury,.may, at the
instance of either party, be re-examined and reversed or
affirmed in this court upon writ of error, without regard to
the sum or value in controversy in such action.*
Certain personal property belonging to the plaintiff, consisting of four hundred and three gallons of whisky and the
barrels in which it was contained were seized by the defendant, as the collector of internal revenue for the 27th district of the State, and it appears that such proceedings were
h.ad that the district attorney for the'distric't filed an information against the same, in behalf of the United States,
founded upon that seizure, in which he alleged that the
property was subject to certain duties and taxes which had
been duly imposed upon the same, and that the property
was found by the defendant, as such collector, in the possession and custody, and within' the control of the plaintiff,
for the purpose of being sold by him in fraud of the internal
revenue laws, and with the design to avoid the payment of
the duties and taxes so imposed. Process in due'form was
issued and the marshal made return upon the same that he
had seized and attached the property, and cited all persons
to appear and assert their claims' as the process commanded.
Subsequently the plaintiff appeared and made claim that he
* 15 Stat. at Large, 44.

Dec. 1872.]

.AvEtILL v. SmiTni.
Opinion of the court.

was the true bond fide owner of the property, and filed a
claim and answer denying all the material allegations of theinformation, to which the district attorney replied tendering
an issue, upon which the parties went to trial and the jury
found that the property did not become forfeited as alleged
by the district attorney. Pursuant to the verdict the court
rendered judgment in'favor of the claimant, and that the
property be discharged, and the court also adjudged and
certified that there was probable cause for the seizure of the
property. Judgment was rendered for the claimant in. the
District Court on the 21st of August, 1868, and the.plafntif,
on the 25th of January of the next year, commenced the
present suit, which is an action of trespass, against the defendant, in the State court, wherein the plaintiff alleged that
the defendant, on the 4th of February, 1868, being the day
the defendant seized the property described in the information, with force and arms, at the place therein named,
seized, took, and carried away the described chattels, of the
value therein alleged, and that he converted the same to his
own use, and still unlawfully detains the same from the
plaintiff. Due application was made by the defendanf for
the removal of the cause from the State court into the Circuit Court, and it was accordingly removed as prayed by
the defendant, and he appeared and pleaded the general
issue, that he is not guilty in manner and form as the plaintiff has alleged in his complaiit. ' Issue having been joined
the cause came to trial, and the jury, under the instructions
of the court, returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum
of $1014.46, "su bj ect to the opinion of the court upon the ques-tions of law arising upon the-proof of a certificate of
probable cause, and upon the fact of the non-return of the
property." Considerable delay ensued,. but the case was
finally turned into a special verdict, and the court rendered
judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the sum found by the
jury. Whereupon the defendant sued out the present writ
of error and removed the cause into this court.
Trespass certainly will not lie in such a case for the act of

90

AvERILL

V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

seizure, unless it appears that the act was tortious or imauthorized, neither of which is provedor can properly be presumed in the present case, as the act of seizu're was made.
by the party as the -collector of the revenue and ii 'acase
where it-was his duty to make it if he really believed, what
he alleged, that the property was forfeited to- the United
States. Attempt to sell such property to avoid thP paymenf
of the internal revenue duties imposed thereon is a legal
cause of forfeiture, and if the defendant; as such collector,
had good cause to believe-aid did believe that the property
described in the information was forfeited to the United
States by any such attempt of the o'wner, it was his duty to
make the seizure, and inasmuch as the District Court, having
jurisdiction of the subject-matter, have adjudged and certified
that there was probable cause for the seizure, the 'court is
of the opinion that trespass will not lie for that act.* Nothing of the kind is pretended, even by the plaintiff, but he
insists that the decree discharging the property from the
attachment made by the marshal, under the process issued
by the District Court in pursuance of the prayer contained
in the information, made it the duty of the defendant to return the property to him as the lawful clainant, and that
inasmuch as the defendant fieglected to return the property,
he became a trespasser ab initio; but the court,-in view of
the circumstances, is not able to concur in that propositiou,
for several reasons: (1.) Because it is settled law, and always
'has been, since the decision in the case of Vaux v. .Newnan,t
that a mere nonfeasance does not amount to such an abuse
of authority as will render the party a trespasser ab initio.
(2.) Because the District Court, which had jurisdiction of
the subject-matter, adjudged and certified that there was
probable cause for the seizure of the property. (3.) Because
the property was taken out of the possession of the defendant
by virtue of the judicial process issued by the District Court,
pursuant to the prayer contained in'the information, and remained, throughout the litigation, in the custody of the marUnited States v. Distilled Spirits, 5 Blatcbfora, 410.

j- 8 .Coke, 146.

Dec. 1872.]

AkvERILL V. SMITIL
Opinion of the court.

shal as the officer of the court which issued the process. (4.)
Because the property under such circumstances, though in
the custody of the marshal for safekeeping, is, in contemplation of law, in the possession of the court for adjudication.
(5.) Because the plaintiff did not obtain any order from the
District Court for a return of the property nor make any
demand for the same either of the marshal or of the defendant.
1. Extended argument to show that a mere omission of
duty, or neglect to do what another has a right to exact, or
any other -nere nonfeasance, will not amount to such an
abuse of authority as will render the party a trespasser ab
initio, is quite unnecessary, as the proposition is not controverted, nor can it be, as it is supported by the highestjudicial
authority. It was resolved in the leading case that not doing
a thing cannot make a party a trespasser ab idijo, because
not doimg is no trespass, and, therefore, if the lessor distrains
for his rent and thereupon the lessee tenders him the rent
and arrears, and requires his beasts again, and the lessor
will not deliver them, this not doing cannot make him a trespasser, and that rule was affirmed in the case of West v.
Nibbs,* by the whole court. When an act is legally done,
said Spencer, 0. J., it cannot be made illegal ab inido, unless
by some positive act incompatible with the exercise of the
legal right to do the first act.t
2. Proof of probable cause, if shown by the certificate of
the District Court which rendered the decree discharging
"the property, is a good defence to an action of trespass
brought by the claimant against the collector who made the
executive seizure, provided it appears that judicial proceedings were instituted and that the charge against the property
was prosecuted to a final judicial determination. Where the
respondent prevails in such an information, the court, says
4 Manning, Granger, and Scott, 185.
t Gates v. Lounsbury, 20 Johnson, 429; Jacobsohn v. Blake, 6 Manning
& Granger, 925; Doolittle v. Blakesley, 4 Day, 265; Shorland v. Govett, 5
Barnewall & Cresswell, 488; Gage v. Reed, 15 Johnson, 403; Waterbury v.
Clark, 4 Day, 198; Ferrin v. Symonds, 11 New Hampshire, 363.

AvERILL v. SIT .S.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Parsons,* give to the prosecuting or seizing officers a
certificate of probable cause, if in their judgment he had
such cause for the seizure, and that, he says, protects the
officer who made the seizure from prosecution for making
the same; and he adds, that the final decree of the court in
a case of forfeiture regularly before the court is conclusive.
In cases of acquittal in revenue instance causes, says Mr.
Duntap,t the decree is for the restitution of the property in
the custody of the *court,and a warrant of delivery is immediately issued, but where there is reasonable cause of
.seizure the judge certifies that fact or causes an entry thereof to'be made, which protects the seizing officer from any
prosecution for the seizure. Probable cause, he says,l
means less than evidence which would justify a condemnation; and the same author says, if the court before whom
the cause is tried shall cause a certificate or entry to be
made that there appeared to be a reasonable cause of seizure,
the seizing officer shall be protected from all costs, suits,
and actions on account of the seizure and prosecution. Differences of opinion existed for a time as to the legal meaning of the term probable cause, but it is settled that it imports circumstances which warrant suspicion, and that a
doubt respecting the true construction of the law is as reasonable a cause of seizure as a doubt respectinig the fact.ยง
Property seized -under the internal revenue laws, when
the same is attached by the marshal under judicial process,
remains in his possession and is not in general- delivered
over to the collector, and in respect to all such property the
rule is well established that- it is in the custody of the law
or of the court, and that it is held by the marshal as the
officer of the court.
Goods of a maritime character seized under the principal
collection act were at one time required to be put into the
custody of the collector, an'd it is undoubtedly true that in
respect to such goods the collector is responsible for the safe
$ Ib. 308.
t Practice, 298.
On Shipping, 491.
Locke v. United States, 7 Cranch, 348; United States v. Riddle, 5 lb.
313; The George, 1 Mason, 27.

Dec. 1872.]

AVERILL V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

custody of the same to the same extent as the marshal is for
such as remain in his possession and keeping, and the rule
applied to each alike is that the keeper is responsible for
any loss or injury which the goods sustain by his neglect or
want of due care.*
Owners of property seized- cannot maintain an action for
the property pending the proceeding in rem to enforce the
forfeiture, as it cannot be determined before the final decree,
whether the taking be rightful or tortious. Consequently
the pendency of the suit in rem would be a good plea in
abatement, as was decided by this court more than half a
century ago.t Two other propositions were decided in tht
case which are of controlling importance in the present inve.stigation : (1.) That the certificate that there was reasonable cause of seizure would be a good bar to an action commenced after the decree of condemnation. (2.) That the
decree of acquittal, if accompanied by a denial of such a
certificate, establishes the fact conclusively that the seizure
was tortious and that the owner of the property is entitled
to his damages for the injury.$
Where the seizure is made in a case of capture jure belli it
is conceded that these principles apply without qualification,
but it is insisted that probable cause never furnishes a defence to an action for damages in the case of a municipal
seizure, except in cases where some act of Congress authorizes the courts to give it that force and effect, and it must
be admitted that such is the law as expounded by this court.ยง
Concede that, but it should b6 observed that this court in
the very case in which that rule is established, refer to the
89th section of the principal collection act, and to the sub1 Stat. at Large, 678, 69; -Burke v. Trevitt, 1 Mason, 100; Jennings
v. Carson, 4 Craneh, 21.
t Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheaton, 246.
$ Shattuck v. Maley, 1 Washington Gircuit Court, 249; United States v.
Gay, 2 Gallson, 360; The Friendship, 1 Id. 112; United States v. One Sorrel
Horse, 22 Vermont, 656; La Manche, 25 Law Reporter, 585; Wilkins V.
Despard, 5 Term, 117; The Ship Recorder, 2 Blatchford, 120; The.Malaga,
2 Am. Law Journal, 105; La Jeune Eugenie, 2 Mason, 436.
The Apollon, 9 Wheaton, 373; 1 Conklin's Admiralty (2d ed.), 459.

AvERILL I.

SMITH.

[Sup.- Ct;

Opinion of the court.

sequent "act respecting seizures," as containing express
provisions upon the subject, and the court decides that they
show the clear opinion of Congress that the claimant in such
a case shall not be entitled to costs, nor shall the person who
made the seizure or the prosecution be liable to an action,
suit, orjudgment on account of such seiznure, or prosecution.*
Appended to the section enacting such an exemption as exhibited in the first two acts is the following, to wit: "Provided that the ship or vessel, goods, wares, or merchandise
be, after judgment, forthwith returned -o such claimant or
claimants,' his, her, or their agent or agents." Taken literally, it is quite clear that the language in those provisos, respectively, would require what the defendant in a case like
the present could not perform, as he could not compel the
court to make an order for the return of the property, nor
could he compel the marshal to do what it is insisted the
language of the provisos require the defendant to do, but
the proviso in the act last refei'red to is df a very different
character, and reads as follows: "Provided such property
or articles as may be -held in 'custody by the defendant, if any,
be, after judgment, forthwith returned to the claimant or
claimants, his, her, or their agent or agents." Beyond all
doubt the construction which this court put upon the provisos-in the first two acts in the case referred to, was the
same as the. lafnguage employed by Congress ii 'the third
act imports, and itis believed that such is the construction
which has always been given to those two provisos ever
since they were enacted.
Imported goods when seized and subsequently atached
by-the marshal are sometimes deposited-with the collector
for safe custody, and in respect to such the rule would be a
reasonable one which should require him to surrender the
same to the owner as soon as the goods are acquitted, but it
would be monstrous to deny the collector the benefit to
which he would otherwise be dntitled from the certificate of
* .The Apollon, 9 'Wheaton, 378; 1 Stat. at Large, 696; 2 Id. 422; 3 Id.

199.

Dec. 1872.]

AVERILL V. SMITi.
Opinion of the court.

probable cause, for the reason that he did not return the
property which was taken out of his possession by judiciAl
process, and which the law requires the marshal to keep in
his custody as the officer of the court havingjurisdiction of
the controversy.
Process in ,era is founded on a right in the thing, and the
object of the process is to obtain the thing itself or a satis-faction out of it, and the executive seizure is required to

bring the property within the reach of judicial p'oces and
as af ording some protection to the owners against the causeless interference of irresponsible persons with their property, but it is merely a preliminary requirement, as the judicial arrest must follow, and the law makes it the duty of the
marshal to keep the property seized in, such safe and secure
manner as to protect it from injury while it is in his custody,
so that if it be condemned or be restored to the owner its
value to the parties may be unimpaired.* Perishable property may be sold and the proceeds paid into the registry of
the court, in which event the proceeds represent the property seized, but it must be obvious that the defendant in
that state of the case could not return the proceeds, as money
in the registry of the court can only be drawn out of the
registry pursuant to the order of the court, signed by the
judge and entered and certified of record by the clerk.t
Viewed in any light the better opinion is that it is the duty
of the claimant to move the court for-the necessary orders
to cause the property or its proceeds to be returned to the
rightful owner.
as preReference is made to the case of Hoit v. o,:
to that
in
respect
to
say
it
Suffice
scribing a different rule.
which
one
case that it is one of an exceptional character, and
is not very satisfactorily explained, but if it is understood as
supporting the views of the plaintiff the court here cannot
accept the conclusion as applied to the present case.
3. Sufficient proof was exhibited, of the most satisfactory
character, showing that the property was attached by the
" Benedict's Admiralty, 262; Pelham v. Rose, 9 Wallace, 103.
1 14 Massachusetts, 210.
t 3 Stat. at Large, 395.

BAILEY-v. RAIL0AD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

marshal, and was by him taken out of the possession of the
defendant, and that the defendant never afterwards obtained
its possession) which is all that need be said on that subject,
as it is quite clear that the defendant could, not return property which was in the possession of an officer of the court.
4. Enough has already been remarked to show that the
property wa6 in tho possession of the court for adjudication,
and that it was the-appropriate duty of the claimant to move
the court that it be restored to the rightful owner.
5. Argument to support:the fifth propositioni is quite unnecessary, as the special veirdict finds that the plaintiff never
made claim of the defendant for' the property except by
bringing the actiom, which-of itself is sufficient to show that
the judgment sh6uld be reversed.
JuDGMENT REVERSED,

tions to issue

and the cause remanded with direcA N Ew VEw mE.

BAILEY V. RAILROAD COMPA'Y.
A railroad company -with stockholders and bondholders, being much embarrassed, put before the latter a plan, by which they should surrender a
part of I.heir bonds and receive preferred stock ther.t-or: the same to
"be 7 per cent. stock and not cumulative, but to share with the
common stock any sturplus which may be earned over and above 7
per cent. upon both in.any one year." The bondholders having accepted
the plan, a-committee was appointed to ;carry out the intention" of it.
The committee reported an indenture in form to be signed by the bondholders and the company. The indenture contained this provision:
"And said corporation covenants and agrees that said preferred stock shall be
entitled to a dividend of 7 per cent. from the net earnings of said road in
each year, before any dividend shall be declared upon other unpreferred shares
of said corporation, and to an equal dividend with said other shares in the net
earnings of said corpoation, beyond sAID 7 per cent., but shall at no time be
entitled to -an accumulatea dividend," &c. The indenture was approved by
"the stockholders, who ordered it to be executed, and ordered the directors
"to procure such certificates in relation to the preferred stock, te be issued
under said -agreement, as may he necessary to carry the same into effect." In
#corDaqknce.with'this the directors issued and gave to the former bondhld~rs:eehticates which-, premising, that they were issued in adjustMsfnt of bonds,. . and subject to the terms And conditions of the indenture," &c., atd ",with the rights set forth therein," declared that the

