PACKET COMPANY V. MCCUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

PACKET COMPANY V. MCCUE.
A man standing on a wharf was hired by the mate of a boat desiring to
sail soon, and which was short of hands, to assist in lading some goods,
which were near the wharf, he not having been in the service of the
boat generally though he had been occasionally employed in this sort of
work. He assisted in lading the goods, an employment which continued about two hours and a half. He was then told to go to "the
office," which was on the boat, and get paid. He did so, and then et
off to go ashore. While crossing the gang-plank, in going ashore, the
boat hands pulled the plank recklessly in and from under his feet, and
he was thrown against the dock, injured, and died from the injuries.
On a suit under a statute, by his administratrix, for the injuries done to
him-the declaration alleging that hq had been paid and discharged,
and that after this, and when he was no longer in any way a servant of
the owners of the boat, he was injured-the defence was that he had
remained in the service of the boat till he got completely ashore, and
that the injuries having been done to him by his fellow-servants, the
owners. of the boat (the common master of all the servants) were not
liable. There was n dispute as to the facts, unless the question as to
when the relationship of master and servant ceased was a fact. This
question the court left tb the jury. Held that there was in this no error.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin. The case was thus:
Patrick McCue was a common laboring man, living in
Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, and employed in the railroad
warehouse in that place. On the evening of the 11th of
July, 1868" the steamer War Eagle, owned by the Northwestern Packet Company, 'arrived at the landing in Prairie
du Chien for tie purpose of taking freight from the warehouse. Being short of hands, the mate of the boat went to
the warehouse, and there employed McCue and four or five
other persons to assist in carrying freight from the warehouse and putting it on board the boat. This employment
continued about two hours and a half, at the end of which
time McCue and the rest were told to go to " the office"
upon the beat (the packet company having no office on
shore for the purpose of making such payments) and receive
their pay.

Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. MCCUE.
Statement of the case.

They proceeded there accordingly, were paid, and then
started to go ashore. As McCue was going ashore, the men
on board the boat pulled in the gangway plank while he
was on it. He was thus thrown down against the dock and
injured, and a few days afterwards died from the injury thus
received.
Hereupon Mary McCue, his widow and administratrix,
brought suit in the court below, under a statute of Wisconsin, to recover damages for the injuries which he had sustained.
The narr. alleged that McOue had never before been,
either generally or at intervals, a servant of the packet
company, and that at the time when the injuries occurred
and the cause of action accrued he was not so; but that contrariwise he had been employed by the company to work
for it on this occasion alone, and "for a short space of
time, to wit, for the space of one hour;" that this time had
elapsed; that the work had been done, anad that McCue had,
been paid for it, and that after all this, and after the relation
of master and servant had thus ceased, and McOue was attempting to get off the boat, and using due care, &c., "the
defendant and its agents then and there," regardless of their
duty, recklessly and without any reasonable cause, pulled in
and from under his feet; &c., the gangway plank, &c., by
which he fell and was injured, &c.
The defendant pleaded not guilty.
There was no doubt from the evidence that McCue was
without fault, and that the injuries which caused his death
were owing to the reckless carelessness of the servants of
the packet company.
On the trial it appeared that McOue bad before been occasionally employed by the packet company in the same
way in which he had now been; but there did not seem to
be any evidence that he was in their general employment:
and this was the first time in the year 1868 in which he had
been employed in this sort of work by the company.
The counsel of the packet company insisted, as the hiring was in the warehouse, as McCue had proceeded thence,

PACKET' COMPANY V. McOCUE.

[$up. Or.

Statement of the case.

as the freight was to be carried thence, and as the packet
company had no office on shore or anywhere else than the
office upon the boat, where McCue could be paid, that his
relationship to his employers had not terminated by the
simple fact of his getting his money at the office on the
boat, but, on the contrary, continued until he got back to
the warehouse, or at least and rather until he had got off
the boat; that until such latter time he was the servant of
the company, and. that the injuries done to him having been
done to him by his fellow-servants of the company he could
not recover from their common master, the packet company.
The counsel of the company therefore requested the court
to charge according to this view, and as matter of law upon
the conceded facts that the plaintiff could not recover.
The court declined so to charge, and charged thus:
"McCue had been occasionally employed by the defendants'
boats in the way in which he was in this instance; but there
does not seem to be any evidence to show that he -was in their
general employment, and in this particular year it would appear
that this was the first time he had been employed in this way,
so that he was employed for a special purpose, which being accomplished, the agreement or contract ceased.
"The contract was made in the warehouse, the freight was
there, the execution of the contract began there, and as soon as
the last portion of the freight was carried on board of the boat,
the-contract terminated, unless, indeed,' it continued because he
was to be paid off and had the right to go ashore from the boat,
and to be provided with the proper means of going ashore, so
that in one sense it is true, I suppose, that the contract began
on shore and was terminated by the act of going on shore by
McCue.
[" At the. same time it may also be said'that as soon as he
did the last work he was required to do, and was paid off, that
he was after that his own master with respeQt to the contract
made between them; that then it was optional with him to do
just as he chose.
"Therefore it will be left to the jury to say whether there
was the relation of servant-and principal or master, as, between

Oct 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. MaC0U.

Argument for the administratrix of the party injured.

the deceased McCue and the defendant, at the time of the injury.
And I am not now prepared to say, even if it were true that the
relation of servant and niaster did subsist, that then the action
could not be maintained, and I would like to have you find, gentlemen (inasmuch as it may be a material point, and of service
hereafter), whether, as a matter of fact, there was or not a termination of the employment between the company and the
deceased priot to or at the time of the injury. The counsel
for the defendant insists that this is a question of law under the
conceded facts; that, inasmuch as soon as McCue was paid off
he immediately proceeded to go on shore an'd was in the act of
going on shore, that constituted a part of the service. But as
the court thinks, for the reason that as soon as paid off, McCue
was his own master, and had the entire control and disposition
of himsel, to remain on board or go ashore, just as he pleased,
in one aspect it may be said that the service.-was terminated.
That question, however, the cour, leaves to the-jury, and asks
them to find what the fact is, from the evidence, on this point.
"Then, gentlemen, leaving the questions of fact to the jury,
it will be for the jury to say under the evidence whether the
plaintiff has made out his case as stated in the declaration. If
the service was terminated and this injury was the result of the
negligence of the servants of the defendant, then the plaintiff

may recover."]
The jury having found a verdict of $2800 for the plaintiff,
andjudgment having gone accordingly, the packet company
brought the case herb on exceptions to the refusal to charge
as requested, and to those parts of the charge within brackets, as given.

Mr. J. P. C. Cotirill,for the plaintiff in error (a brief of Mr.
J. TV Cary beingfiled on the same side):
11. A master is riot responsible to those in his employ for
injuries resulting-from the negligence of a fellow-servant
engaged in the same general business; and this is so although
the grades of the servants are*different, and the person injured is inferior in rank and subject to the directions and
general control of him by whose act the injury is caused.
Neither is it necessaly that the servants-the one that suffirs

PACKET COMPANY V. MCQUE.

•[Spat
[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the administratrix of the party injured.

a.nd tIe oue that causes the, injury-should be at the time
engaged in the same operation or particular work. It is
enough that they are in the employment of the same master,
engaged in the same common enterprise, both employed to
perfbrm duties and services tending to accomplish the same
general purposes. This rule, in the full extent in whibh we
state it, is one supported by authorities perfectly kdiown to
all. Its application to this case is plain, if the relationship
of Mcue was not terminated by the act of his receiving
his pay at the office on the boat; the captain's office, we
suppose.
2. It was not so terminated. The engagement
with
Mcue was on shore., His relation of servant there made
continued until he finally got back to shore. If not, what
relation did he sustain to the owner of the boat between the
moment that he got his pay and that in which he was in the
act of finally going ashore? He was not a passenger. He
was not a trespasser., Hlaving lawfully entered upon the
boat as a servant, and being required to leave it at the end
of the service, he would still be a servant until he had finally
quitthe boat. One of the risks which he assumed in entering upon his employment was his pass'age over the gang-"
plank, in going to and from the boat, in loading the freight.
Can it be said that he did not assume this risk in passing over
it, when finally leaying the boat, as much as lie did at any
other time when passing over the same plank, in -the course

of his einployment? Those in charge of the boat were in
duty bound to permit him to go ashore after'he had finished
carrying freight. They were bound to furnish him with the
means of goingashore. And he was himself bound by the
contract which he had made to go ashore. He could not
have remained on the boat under the contract which he had
made, and'to have been entitled to remain there he would
have been obliged to mlake some other contract. His contract of service, tierefore, did not terminate until he got
ashore.
3. The court left it to thejury io determine as a question
of fact whether or not Mcue, at the time he was injured,

Oct. 1873.]

PACKET COMPANY V. MCOUE.
Opifiion of the court.

was a servant of the packet company; whether there was
or not a termination of the employment between him and it
prior to dr at the time of the injury.
This was an error. The question was purely one of law.
The facts were all undisputed and conceded. It was conceded that McCue was hired by the mate oil shore to assist
the crew ini carrying freight from the warehouse to and upon

the *boat over the plank, and that he did so assist-; that as
soor as he deposited his last load' of freight on the boat, he
was directed to go to the office on the boat and get his pay;
that he went and got his pay and immediately thereafter
started to leave the boat by passing ovrthe plank, and that
while he was upon it, passing to the shore, it was hauled in
by the crew.and he was thrown against the dock and injured.
It was further undisputed that the packet company had no
office or .place on shore for paying its servants, and that the
only place for paying them was at the. office on the boat.
So of all the facts; all were undisputed and conceded. Now,
on such a case, it was the duty of the court to determine as
a question of law what the relation was existing between the
packet company and Mcue at the time he was injured,
and it was error to leave this question to the jury.*
Messrs. .Matthew .ale Carpentei and G. W. Laldn, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is insisted on the part of the plaintiff in error that a
mster is not responsible to a servant for injuries caused by
the negligence or misconduct of a fellow-servant engaged in
the same general business. Whether this general proposition be true or not it is not necessary to determine in the
state of this record. It is conceded, if the employment df
McCue by the company terminated before the injury complained of was suffered, that the company is liable, and this
the jury have found to be-thd fact.
* Parks v. Ross, 11 Howard, 372; Besson v. Southard, 10 New York, 240;
Storey v. Brennan, 15 Id. 526; People v. Cook, 4 Selden, 67.
VOL. XVII.

33

514

PACKET COMPANY

v. MdCUE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But it is said it was the province of the court, and not the
jury, to determine the point .of time at which the service
was ended; that as the facts were undisputed, it was a question of law, and the court should have told the jury the relation of master and servant subsisted when the accident
happened.
We do not think so. One of the theories on which the
suit was prosecuted was that McCue's special employment
had ceased when he was injured. This theory was resisted
by the defence, and the court, not taking upon. itself to determine as an absolute proposition when the employment
terminated, left i tto the jury to find how the fact was. Thi
ruling, in our opinion, was correct., It was for the jury to
say, from the nature of the employment, the manner of engaging the hands, the usual mode of transacting such a business, and the other circumstances of the case, whether the
service had or had not ceased at the time of the accident.
The pointwas submitted fairly to the jury, with no more
comments than the evidence justified. It was argued by
the plaintiff in 'error that the employment of necessity terminated on the land, because it was there McCue was engaged to do the work, and he bad the right to be povided
with the proper means of reaching it from the boaL. On
the contrary, the defendant in error contended the special
service ceased-when McCue had finished his work and was
paid off; that after this lie was not subject to the control or
direction of the officers of the boat, but at liberty to stay on
the boat or go off as he pleased. The jury took this latter
view of.the relation of the parties, and we cannot say that
they did not decide correctly. At any rate, their decision
on a question of fact is not subject to review in this court.
The defence at the best was a narrow one, and in our opinion
more technicrl than just.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See Railroad Company v. Fort, infra, p. 558.]

