Pi1Tp V. NOoK.

['Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

districts and towns, giving them, as they have supposed, the
monopoly of the patented machine or article within the district purchased. The decision of the court in this case will,
in my view, utterly destroy the value of a great portion of
this property.
I do not regard the authorities cited as establishing a different doctrine from that now contended for. The remark
of Chief Justice Taney, in Bloomer v. ikcQuewan, that "when
a machine passes to the hands of a purchaser, it is no longer
within the limits of the monopoly; it passes outside of it,
and i6 no longer under the protection of the act of Congress,"
is perfectly true in the sense and application in which the
Chief Justice made it. He was speaking of time, not territory; of the right to use a machine after the original patent had expired and a renewal had been granted, not bf
using it in a place outside of the grant. All the effects
mentioned by the Chief Justice would undoubtedly follow
so far forth as it was in the power of the vendor to produce
them, but no further. And he would never have contended
that those effects would follow any further than tire vendor's
power to produce them extended- That is the very question in this case. How far did the assignee's interest aud,
therefore, his power extend? In my judgment it was limited iu locality, both as to manufacture and use, and that lie
could not convey to another what he did not have himself.
I hold, therefore, thdt the dec"ee should be reversed.

PIHLP ET AL. V. NoCK.
In a suit by a patebtee, for damages against an infringer, the plaintiff can
recover only for actual damages, and he must show the damages by evidence. They cannot be left to conjecture by the jury. 'Where he has
sought his profit in the form of a royalty paid by his licensees and there
are no peculiar circumstances, the amount to be recovered will be regulated by that standard. Counsel fees cannot be Lacluded in the verdict,
and an instruction which directed thq jury to award to the plaintiff
""such sum as they shouldfind to be requiredl to remunerafe him for the
loss sustained by the wrongful act of the defeadants, and to .-reimburse
himfor-al such expenditures as have beennecessarily incurred by him in

Oct. 1873.1

PHILP V. NOCK.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

order to establish his right," was held to be erroneous as too broad and
vague, and as tending-to lead the jury to suppose that it was their duty
to allow counsel fees and perhaps other charges and expenditures equally
inadmissible.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Nock brought an action in the court below against Philp
and others to recover damages for the infringement of a
patent granted to him by the United States for an improve=
ment touching the lids of inkstands and the hinge whereby
such lids are attached. The case came on to be triedt in
March, 1870, and therefore while the Patent Act of July 4th,
1836,* which in suits against infiringers gives to patentees
"the actual damages sustained" by them, was in force; a
similar provisiou,-however, being made in the subsequent
Patent Act of July 8th, 1870.t The bill of exceptions showed
that the plaintiff gave in evidence that during the term of
the patent " the defendants had sold inkstands having hinges
that were infringements of the plaintiff's patent, to the number of seventy-five dozen, and that the royalty which the
plaintiff received for the use of his patent was at the rate of
'$2 per gross." The testimony being closed, the cort instructed the jury as follows:
"If the jury shall find a verdict for the plaintiff under the
foregoing instructions, they will award him such sum as they
shall find to be required to remunerate him for the loss sustained by the wrongful act of the defendants, and to reimburse
ERROR

him for all such expenditures as have been necessarily incurred by
him in order to establish his right."

To this instruction the defendant excepted.
A verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiff in the sum of $500 the defendants brought the case here.
31r. R. D. Mussey, for the plaintfif in error:

All the injury proved was that the defendants withheld.
royalty to the amount of $12.50. There was no evidence
of any "expenditure" by Nock, and the instruction had no
-* 5 Star. at Large, 123.

t 16 Id. 207.

"462

PHIL~P v. NTocx.

• [Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

foundation in the evidence. Its inevitable effect. upon the
minds of the jury was to lead them to believe they might
lump counsel fees, and such other expenditures as they
ifnferred, and out of them make. a total. The jury followed
this evident lead of the court, and rieturned a verdict for
forty times the amount proven.
Mr. G. W. Paschall,conira:
The bill of exceptions does not show all the evidence in
the case, but ,it may be gathered that the plaintiff below
proved that the defendants had in'ringed his right by selling
seventy-five dozef inkstands. What further facts he proved
is not stated.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The measure of the damages to be recovered against infringers pr~escribed by the act of 1886 as well as by the act
of 1870, is "the actual damages'sustained by the plaintiff."
Where the plaintiff has sought his profit in the form of a
royalty paid by his licensees, and there are no peculiar circumstances in the case, the amount to be recovered will be
regulated by that standard. If that test cannot be applied,
he will be entitled.to an amount which will compensate him
for the injury to which he has been subjected-by the piracy.
In arriving at their conclusion, the profit made by the defendant and that lost by the plaintiff are among tha elements
which the jury may consider. Where the infringement is
confined to a part of the thing sold, the recovery must be
limited accordingly. It cannot be as if the entire thing
were covered by the patent; or, where that is the case, as
if the infr-ingement were as large as the monopoly.

Counsel

fees cannot be included in the verdict. The plaintiff must
show his damages by evidence. They must not be left to
copjecture by the jury. They must be .proved, and iot
guessed at.
The instruction Under consideration was too broad and
too vagute. The jury could have hardly doubted that it was
their duty to allow the caunsel fees paid or to be paid by

Oct. 1873.]

CARL TON "v.

463

BOiKrE.

Statement of the ease and opinion of the court.

the plaintiff; and perhaps other charges and expenditiires
equally inadmissible..
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court
belov, with directions to issue
A

VENIRE DE N9VO.

CARLTON V. BOKEE.
1. Where a claim in a patent uses general terms of reference to the specification, sucl! as I5substantially in the manner and for the purpose herein.
set forth," although the patentee will not be held to the precise combination of all'the parts described, yet his claim will be limited, by reference to the history of the art, to what was really first invented by
him.
2. General claims inserted in a reissued patent will be carefully scrutinized,
and will not be permitted to extend the rights of the patentee beyond
wvhat is shown by the history of the art to have been really his invention. If made to embrace more the claim will be void.
8. One void claim, if made by inadvertence and in good faith, will not
vitiate the entire patent.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
William Carlton et Al., ds assignees of Christian Reichmann, filed their bill in equity in the court below to restrain
Howard Bokee from infringing a patent for an improvement,
in lamps, granted to Reichmann on the 21st of September,
1858, and reissued to Carlton and one Merrill on the 11th
of August, 1868.
The court below dismissed the bill, ana the complainant
took this appeal.
The case- can be gathered from the facts stated in the
opinion of the court.

Messrs. J. .B. Latrob and B. B. Curtis,for the appellant;
Messrs. C. F. Bake and C. M. Kellei', contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The lamp, as patented to Reichmann, was one of a large

