648

WALKER V. STATE HARBOR CoMMtssIoNERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We think that the learned judge who tried the case below
instructed ,the jury correctly.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WALKER v.

THE

STATE HARBOR COMMISSIONERS.

In the construction of the statutes of a State, and especially those affecting
titles to real property, where no Federal question arises, this court follows the adjudications of the highest court of the State. Its interpretation is accepted as the true interpretation, whatever may be the opinion
of this court of its original soundness. So held in a case where the Supreme Court of California had construed the terms " tide lands," used
in a statute of that State, as applying only to lands covered and uncovered by the tides, and as not including lands permanently submerged by
the waters of the bay of Sarn Francisco.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the Un-ited States for the
District of California.
Walker brought an action of ejectment against Marks
and others, the Board of State Harbor Commissioners, for
certain real property situated within the limits of the city
of San Fraicisco, State of California. The case, which was
tried by the court without a jury, by cbnsent of parties, arose
as follows:
In March, 1851, the legislature of the State of California
granted to the city of San Francisco au estate for ninetynine years in certain lands covered by the tide-waters of the
bay of San Francisco, situated within a designated line, described according to a map on record in the recorder's office
of the county, anid declared that the line thus designated
should "be and remain a permanent water-front" of the
city, reserving at the same time to the State the right to
regulate the construction of wharves and other improvements beyond the line, so that they should not interfere
with the shipping and commercial interests of the city and
harbor.

Oct. 1873.] WALKER V.STATE HARBOR COMMISSIONERS.

649

Statement of the case.

The premises in controversy were situated 'beyond and
immediately adjoining this line, and were covered by the
navigable waters of the bay at the lowest tide. If the streets,
as laid down on the map of the city, were extended into the
bay, the premises would form an entire block. Two grants,
together embracing the premises, were made, one in 1848,
and one in 1849, by an alcalde of the pueblo of San Francisco. Under these grants, and an act of the legislature of
California, approved on the 14th of May, 1861, which it was
contended, confirmed the grants, the plaintiff asserts title
to the demanded premises.
The defendants, who constituted the Board of State Harbor
Commissioners, were created under the act of the legislature, passed in 1863, entitled "An act to provide for the
improvement and protetion of the wharves, docks, and
water-front of the city and county of San Francisco." By
this act and a supplement to it passed in 1864, the defend-'
ants were authorized to take possession of and hold the bay
which lies along the water-front of the city and county of
San Francisco, and adjacent thereto, to the extent -of six
hundred feet, with the privileges and appurtenances, except
such portions as were held under valid leases, and of those
portions when the leases expired; and to construct a street
along the line of the water-front, and wharves, docks, and
other improvements intended for the convenience of shipping and commerce. In pursuance of the authority thus
conferred, and for the purposes' designated, the defendants
took possession of the premises in controversy.
The act of the legislature upon which the plaintiff relied
as confirming the alcalde grants is entitled "An act to provide for the sale of the marsh and tide- lands of the State."
It confirms the sales of all such lands previously made in
accordance with any act of the legislature providing for the
sale of the swamp and overflowed lands of the State, with
a proviso, as follows: "That no sales of lands, either tide or
marsh, excepting alealde grants, which are hereby ratified and
eofrwed, within five miles of said cities (San Francisco and
Oakland), or within one mile and one-half of the State prison

"650 WALIKER V. STATE HARBOR COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

grounds aforesaid (at Point San Quentin), shall be confirmed
by this act."*
The Circuit Court held that the alcalde grants under
which the plaintiff claimed, were not confirmed by the acA
of the legislature of May 14th, 1861, and gave judgment for
the defendants; and the plaintiff thereupon brougbt the
case to this court on writ of error.
Mess's. John E. Ward and Hall McAllister, for the plaintiff
in error; .Mr. T. T. Grittenden, contra:
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The alcaldes of the pueblo of San Francisco possessed no
authority to grant any lands c6vered by the tide-waters of
the bay. The grants, therefore, under which the plaintiff
claims were inoperative to pass any title to the premises.
This is admitted by counsel on both sides, and the only
qu'estion presented by the record for our determination is
whether the grants were confirmed by the act of the legislature of May 14th, 1861.
That question is not an open one for this court. It has
received its authoritative solution by the, judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State. In the case of The People v.
.Davidson,t the question arose in that court whether the
premises, upon which the defendants there had constructed
a wharf, which \ere the same premises in controversy here,
belonged to the defendants, who claimed them under the
same alcalde grants and the same act of the legislature of'
May 14th, 1861, and.the court, after full and extended consideration, held that the terms "tide lands," used ini the act,
applied only to lands covered and uncovered by the tides,
and did not 'include lands permanentl'y submbrged by the
waters of the bay of San Francisco; that the alcalde grants
confirmed by the -act were grants only of tide lands as thus
defined, and did. not embrace the grants under which the
*Statutes of CalIfornia of 1861, p.'363.

t 30 California, 379.

Oct. 1878.] -

THE STAR OF HOPE.
Syllabus.

defendants claimed, and that the premises, so far as they lay
below the line of low-water mark, belonged to the State.
It is not for us to express any opinion as to what would
be our construction of the act had the Supreme Court of
the State never spoken on the subject. In -the construction
of the statutes of a State, and especially those affecting titles
to real property, where no Federal question arises, this court
follows the adjudications of the highest court of the State.
Its. interpretation is accepted as the true interpretation,

whatever may be our opinion of its original soundness. It
becomes a part of the statute, as mush so as if incorporated
into the body of it, and in following the statute as thus interpreted we only apply to a local question the law of the
place. As has been often remarked, infinite mischiefs would
result if, in construing State statutes affecting titles to real
property, where no Federal question is involved, a. different
rule were adopted by the Federal tribunals from that of the
State courts.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE STAR OF HOPE.
Nuts in bags and boxes were shipped at New York to be delivered at San
that if nuts are stowed-in the
Francisco. It was shown on ther t-ial
hold an this voyage they are very liable to be'injured by s~veat; that it
is the almost invariable practice to carry them in the cabin, or cabin
state-rooms; and to bnter them on the bill of lading as to be thus carried;
and that if they are carried in the hold they are sometimes inclosed in
water-tight oil casks in order to keep them in proper condition. The
packages in this case were all marked " in cabin state-room." The contract of the bill of lading was that the goods should be delivered in San
Francisco " in good order and condition, dangers of the seas, fire, and
collisions excepted." The-goods were placed in the hold without notice
to the sippers, and were damaged on the voyage by sweating. Held,
that in view of the almost invariable practice as to the stowage of nuts
on this voyage, of the well-known fact that if stowed in the hold -they
are extremely liable to be injured by sweat, and of the marks and directions on the packages in question in this case, it was culpable negligence

