THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

defendant, for which he is liable in law to be.put upon trial,

convicted, and punished.
(3.) That the 82d section of the Crimes-Act enacts the
the only statute of limitation, applicable to the offence
charged against the defenidant, but that he cannot avail
himself of it under the demurrer filed to the indictment.

THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.
Under the 20th section of the act of July 20th, 1868, entitled. -An act imposing taxes on distilled spirits," &c., in the absence of a distiller's
having appealed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (as under the
10th section of the act he may do), for the correction of any error made
by the assessor in fixing the "true producing capacity" of his distillery, it is lawful for the government to assess and collect, as. for a deficiency, the taxes upon the difference between the said "producing
capacity" as estimated by the assessor and the amount of spirits actually
produced by such distillery, even though the distiller have in good faith
reported and paid taxes upon his whole production, and though such
production have exceeded 80 per centum of the producing capacity aforesaid.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
The 10th section of the "Act imposing taxes on distilled
spirits," &c., approved July 20th, 1868,* enacts:
"That every assessor shall proceed at the expense of the
United States, with the aid of some competent and skilful person to be designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
to make survey of each distillery registered for the production
of spirits in his district, to estimate and determine its true producing capacity, &c., a written report of which shall be made in
triplicate, signed by the assessor and the person aiding in making the same, one copy of which shall be furnished to the distiller, one retained by the assessor, and the other immediately
transmitted to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. If the
* 15 Stat. at Large, 129.

Dec. 1872.]

THE OOLLEOTOR V. BEGGS.
Statement of the case.

Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall at any time be satisfied

that such report of the capacity of a distillery is in any respect
incorrect or needs revision, he shall direct the assessor to make
in like manner another survey of said distillery."
The 19th section of the same act makes it the duty of
every distiller, on the 1st, 11th, and 21st days of each month,
or within five days thereafter, "to render to the assistant
assessor an, account in duplicate, taken from his books, stating the quantity and kind of materials used for the production of spirits each day, and the number of wine gallons
and of proof gallons of spirits produced and placed in warehouse."
The 20th section proceeded thus:
"On receipt of the distiller's first return in each month, the
assessor shall inquire and determine whether said distiller has
accounted, in his returns for the preceding month, for all the
spirits produced by him; and to determine the quantity of spirits
thus to be accounted for, the whole quantity of materials used
in the production of spirits shall be ascertained; and forty-five
gallons of mash or beer, brewed or fermented from grain, shall
represent not less than one bushel of grain; and seven gallons
of mash or beer, brewed or fermented from molasses, shall represent not less than one gallon of molasses. In case the return
of the distiller shall have been less than the quoantity thus ascertained, the distiller or other pei'son liable shall be assessed for
such deficiency at the rate of fifty cents for every proof gallon,
together with the special tax of four dollars for every cask of
forty proof gallons, and the collector shall proceed to collect the
same as in cases of other assessments for deficiencies; but ih no
case shall the quantity, of spirits returned by the distiller, together with the quantity so assessed, be for a less quantity of
spirits than 80 per centum of the producing capacity of the distillery as estimated under the provisions of this act."
In September, 1868, soon after the statute took effect, an
assessor addressed the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
at Washington for instructions on the subject of how the
true "producing capacity" of a distillery under section 10
of the above-quoted act was to be determined.

TnE

COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The commissioner thus replies to him:
"In determinifig the true producing capacity of a distillery
under the said section, it makes no difference whether the distillery is proposed to be ran one, ten, or twentyfour hours, nor
what number of bushels the distiller proposes to mash per day.
"You are to'determine, first, what number of bushels of grain
can be mashed and fermented in twenty-four hours; and second,
what quantity of spirits can be produced in twenty-four hours.
"What you are to determine is the absolute producing capacity, without deduction for any cause; you must estimate the
maximum quantity of spirits which can be produced by the distilldr, supposing him to run continuously for twenty-four hours.
"The number of bushels which you determine upon.these
principles can be mashed and fermented in twenty-foar hours,
is the basis upon which you will assess the per diem capacity tax
imposed by section.13.* The number of bushels so determined,
multiplied by the quantity of spirits which can under all circumstances (all the apparatus and machinery being ingood order)
be prbduced in the distillery from a bushel 6f graii, wbill give
the quantity of spirits which can be produced in twenty-four
hours; and this is the basis of the examination to be made by
you monthly of his return under section 20.
"If his returns exceed 80 per cent. of this, no assessment is
necessary, unless it shall appear that his actual production is in
excess of his returns."
In this state of things one .Beggs, a distiller, male true
and c6rrect reports for the months of September, October,
and N'ovember, 1868, of all the spirits by him actually produced. The amount of such spirits, so reported, exceeded
80 per centuni of the producing capacity of the distillery of
plaintiff for the said months respectively.
He also paid all the taxes assessable against him for such
pr:oduct so reported.
But by a survey of the distillery, which.had been made in
pursuance of the above-quoted section 10 of the act of July
This was a tax of $2.per day on every distiller whose distillery had an
aggregate capacity for mashing and fermenting twenty bushels of grain or
less, or sixty gallons of molasses or less, in twenty-fotfr hours, &c.-REP.

Dec. 1872.]

THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.
Argument for the United States.

20th, 1868, and in force during the said months of September, October, and November, 1868, the distillery was estimated to be capable of producing from each bushel of grain
used three and one-quarter gallons of spirits.
The amounts reported by Beggs as having been produced
at his distillery during the said months was less than three
and one-quarter gallons for each bushel of grain by him
used during that time.
He-reupon the assessor, maintaining that Beggs was bound
to pay taxes upon the amount of three and one-quarter gallons for each bushel of grain used by him during those
months, assessed him upon the diffirence between the
amount repSorted in his returns aforesaid and the said estimated product of three and one-quarter gallons per bushel
as fixed and determined in the survey; and made return of
this assessment to the collector. On demand made by the collector, Beggs paid under protest the sum assessed, and having made application for repayment of" it to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
who refused to repay it, he brought suit in the court below
against the collector, one Stevenson, to recover it.
The court found the facts above stated and held the assessment illegal, and the plaintiff entitled to recover.
Judgment being entered accordingly, the collector brought
the case here.
JTb'. C. 1T Hill, Assistant Attorney- General,for the collector,
plaintfff in error:
The judgment below was plainly wrong under the act.
The distiller used so much grain; this the case admits. He
did not, inl fiaet, get from it all which the assessors had, in
fixing the "true producing capacity" of his distillery;-fixed
as the amount which he could have got.' But that cannot
now be helped. They fixed (if indeed the distiller did get
all that was possible from his distillery) the true producing
capacity too high. And he ought at once to have appealed,
as the 10th section allowed him to do, to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. That section provides a complete sys-

186

THE COLLECTOR v. BEGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for.the distiller.

tern for measuring the producing capacity of a distillery,
and for correctihig any errors made in such measurement.
Any error which is made by the assessors must be corrected
in the manner pointed out, namely, by the appeal. Then a
new estimate may be made. But section 20 would seem to
place the question beyond a doubt. The 80 per-cent. therein
required to be assessed is the "80 percentum of the producing capacity of the distillery, as estimated under the provisions of this act," namely, under section 10.
The case falls within the principle established in many
States, that an action will not-ie to recover back a tax imposed on an overvaluation of property where the statutes
provide a remedy fbi the correction of any errors made by
assessors in valuing property.*
Messrs. J. D. Cox and H. L. Burnett, contra.
1. The general object of the act is stated in the first clause
of the 20th section. It is to "cetermine whether said distiller has accounted in his returns for the preceding month, for
all the spirits produced by him." It is therefore not the
purpose of the law to treat the distiller unfairly, nor to tax
him upon spirits which he does not produce, but only to
ascertain his actual production by a reasonably certain rule,
and to prevent fraud in his returns.
2. The basis of calculation is stated in the next clause, to
wit: "To determine the quantity of spirits'thus to be~accounted for, the whole quantity of materials used for the
production of spirits shall be ascertained."
In this case, it is part of the case as found,.that Beggs's
reports were "true and correct."
3. The next clause gives a means of estimating the quantity
of materials used.
4. We have next the provision, that, if the distiller has
returned a less quantity of grain used than this test would
show, he shall be assessed for the deficiency, and the assessment shall be collected.
* Ontario Bank v. Bunnell, 10 Wendell, 186; Osborn o. Danvers, 6 Pickering, 98; Howe v. Boston, 7 Cushing, 278.

Dec. 1872.]

THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.
Opinion of the court.

5. The section ends with the proviso, that "in no case
shall the quantity of spirits returned by the distiller, together with the quantity so assessed, be for a less quanfity
of spirits than 80 per centum of the producing capacity of the
distillery, as estimated under the provisions of this aet"
The "producing capacity" is estimated, in the quantity
of spirits per bushel of grain which the apparatus can make;
but in this last clause the gross quantity found by multiplying the product per bushel into the whole number of bushels
fermented, is, by a natural substitution, used instead of the
circumlocution which would otherwise be necessary.
Taking the several clauses together, it is manifest that no
margin or latitude whatever is allowed the distiller as to the
quantity of grain used. He must report the whole. He cannot even use his discretion in makixig the mash in his tubs
thinner than it will be by using one bushel of grain to every
forty-five gallons of the mixture which his vats will contain.
He is charged with the use of the quantity of grain which is
indicated by this measurement of his vats, and he must use
this quantity or bear the loss; for, if he returns less, the
assessor must charge him with the deficiency, estimate the
gallons of spirits the grain would make, and taxes for that
also must be collected from him.
The only latitude allowed is contained in the last clause-,
known as the eighty per cent. clause. His total product in
spirits must not be less than eighty per cent. of what the
whole quantity of grain used will make, at the rate per
bushel fixed by the official estimate of the " producing capacity" of his apparatus. The twenty per cent-is the maximum allowance to cover the variation in quality of grain, or
the accidents or unskilfulness of manufacture.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The twentieth section of the act of Congress in question
prescribed a mode for the ascertainment of the quantity of
spirits for which a distiller was required to account in his
monthly returns to the assessor. By a previous section the
distiller was required to make a return, but the twentieth

THE

COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

'Opinion of the court.

section made it the duty of the assessor, on the receipt of
the distiller's first return in each month, to inquire and determine whether he had accounted, in his return fbr the
preceding month, for all the spirits produced by him, and,
to determine the quantity of spirits thus to be accounted for,
it required that the whole quantity of materials used for the
production of spirits should be ascertained. It gave also a
rule by which the quantity-of materials used for the production of spitits should be ascertained and settled by the ass-essor, 6nd it then enacted that in case the return of the distiller
had been less than the quantity thus -scertained, be should
be liable to be assessed for such deficiency, at the rate of
fifty cents for: every pui'oof gall9n, iogetler with the special
tax of $4 -for every.cask of forty proof gallons, which the
collector was required to collect. It also enacted that in no
case should the quantity of"spirits returned by the distiller,
together with the quantity so assessed, be less than 80 per
centum of the produbing capacity of the distillery, as estiof the act.
matedf under'the provisions
The next preceding section (the 19th) made it the duty of
every distiller, on the 1st, 11th, and 21st days of each month,
or within five days thereafter, to rendei to the assistant
assessor an account in duplicate, taken from books he was
required to keep, stating not only the number of wine gallons and of proof gallons of spirits produced'and placed in
warehouse, but also th'e quantity and kind of materi6as used
for the production of spirits each day.
The purpose of these requisitions, as well as of many
others made by the statute, was obviously to guard against
fraudulent returns, and to secure to the government a tax
upon all spirits produced, and upon all which might have
been produced from the quantity of materials used. Hence
the distiller was required to return, not merely the amount
of his product, but the kind and quantity of'-mateikials used
by him, and the assessor was directed to test -the accuracy
of that return, and to -estimate, from the quantity of materials ascertained by him to have beeti used,'the nuinber
of gallons of spirits which should have been accounted. for.

Dec. 1872.]

TEE COLLECTOR

V. BEGGS.

Opinion of the court.

The quantity of materials used, as ascertained by the assessor, was made a measure 6f production, and upon all spirits
ascertained by .hat measure to have been produced, either
actually or potentially, the distiller was expressly required,
by the twentieth section, to pay the tax, without any reference to his return, or to what had been actually produced.
In no case could'he escape from liability to pay a tax on at
least 80 per centum of what his distillery was estimated to
be capable of producing, but if he produced more, or if the
quantity of materials which he had used, as ascertained and
determined by the assessor, showed that his production had
been or should have been greater,.he was subjected to the
required tax on the quantity of spirits which'that ascertained
quantity -of materials was capable of producing, and not
merely upon 80 per centum of that quantity. This was the
uiequivocal language of the act. Thus the quantity of materials used, as ascertained by the assessor, and not the actual
product of spirits, was made the measure of liability to taxation and of its extent.
This construction of the 20th section is in entire harmony
with all the other parts of the act. The 10th section directed
a survey of every distillery registered, or intended to be registered, for the production of spirits, in order to estimate
and determine its true producing capacity. This survey was
required to be made by the assessor of the collection district,
with the aid of some. competent and skilful person, to be
designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The
mode in which the producing capacity of the distillery was
to be ascertained, as prescribed by the regulations of the
commissioner, was. by measuring .each mash, or fermenting tub-by calculating how many bushels of grain, when
mashed (if grain was used), the fermenters would hold, by
considering the period of fermentation, and deducing therefrom theL number of bushels which could be fermented in
twenty-four hours. This ascertained, the assessor and hie
assistant were directed to estimate the quantity of spirite
that could be produced in the distillery from a bushel of
grain, and multiplying that by the number of bushels that

THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.

[Sup.-Ct.

Opinion of the court.

could be fermented therein in. twenty-four hours, the pif&ducing capacity of the distillery was to be ascertained and
fixed as a standard of taxation, or rather to determine the
minimum of taxation. At.all events the distiller was made
.taxable for a production of spirits not less than 80 per cent.
of the producing capacity of his, distillery, as determined by
the survey, whether that quantity, was actually, produced by
him or not; or whether he used a bushel of grain or not.
Eighty per cept. of the estimated (not the actual) capacity
of the distillery was the smallest amount for which he was
made taxable. But if he actuallyproduced more, or if the
quantity of grain or other materials used for distillation, as
ascertained by the assessor, showed a larger production, lie
was made taxable tb the full extent.of that production thus
shown. No other interpretation can be given to the 20th
section.
.Now, applying this to the facts ofthis case as found by
the Circuit Court, it becomes very evident that the judgment should have been given for the-defendant below.
It is true the actual production of, spirits for the three
months, September, October, and November, 1868, as returned by the plaintiff below, and correctly returned, was
more.than 80 per cent. of the producing capacity of his
distillery for those three months. Whether it was more
than 80 per cent. of -the producing capacity, as determined
by- the survey, provided for in the tenth section of the act, is not
found, nor is it material. It is found that by reason of
the survey made in pursuance of that section, the distillery
was esimated to be capable of producing from each bushel
of grain used, three and one-quarter gallons of spirits; that
the quantities reported by the plaintiff, as having been produced during those three months, were less than three and
one-quarter gallons for each bushel of grain used by him
during that time, and that the additional assessment made,
of which he complains, was for the difference between the
quantity reported in his returns and the estimated product
of three and one-quarter gallons for each bushel of grain
used, the -possible production determined by the survey.

Dec. 1872.]

.
D APEYRE

V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

Such being the facts, as found, the plaintiff was expressly
declared by the 20th section to be-assessable for the .diflrence between his return and the estimated possible product,
and it was made the duty of the collector to collect it. The
survey and estimate of producing capacity made under the
10th section were conclusive; while they remained, though
subject to revisi6n, under the direction of the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. And the extent of liability to taxation
was, under the act of Congress, directed to be measured,"
not by the actual product of spirits, but by what should have
been the product of the materials used, according to the estimate made under the 10th section.
It follows that the assessment made was legal, and that
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. The Circuit Court,
therefore, erred in giving judgment for the plaintiff JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the record remitted with in-

structions to enter
JUDGMENT FOR THE DEFENDANT.

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.
1. A proclamation of the President relieving parties who had been transacting business in ignorance of it, from penalties, and restoring to them
their rights of property, held, under special circumstances, by the judgment of the court to have taken effect when it was signed by the President and sealed with the seal of the United States, officially attested.
2. Publication in the newspapers held, in the same way, not requisite to
make it operative.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By the act of 13th July, 1861,* the President was authorized to proclaim, "that the inhabitants of a State, or any
part thereof, where such insurrection exists, are in state of
insurrection against thE United States ;" and thereupon, "all
APPEAL

12 Stat. at Large, 257,

5.

