Oct

1873.]

UNITED STATES V. LAPblNE.
Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. LAPiNE.
In February, 1862, while the whole State of Louisiana, including the city
of New Orleans, was under the civil and military control of the rebels
of the late rebellion, a mercantile firm in New Orleans sent their agent
into certain interior parishes of the State to collect, money due to the
firm and to make purchases of cotton. After the agent had got into the
interior parishes, but before he had bought any cotton, the city of New
Orleans, where his principals were, was captured (April 27th, 1862), by
the forces of the United States, and remained from that time under the
control of the government, the interior parishes, however, still remaining in the control of the rebels. Subsequently to this the agent made
purchases of cotton from persons in these interior parishes, still, as just
said, under the control of the rebels. Hded that the firm was guilty of
trading with the enemy, and that the property was rightly taken by the
Federal government.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
"On the 20th of February, 1862, while the whole State of
Louisiana, including the city of New Orleans,was in the possession and under the control of the rebels, Lap~ne & Ferr' , a
mercantile firm in the said city, sent wheir travelling clerk
from the said city of New Orleans into certain parishes in
the interior of the State, to collect moneys due to the firm
there, and gave him authority to purchase sugar and cotton
for the firm.
"In March or- April, 1862, they requested one Avegno,
who was then going from New Orleans to the said parishes,
to remit to their said clerk the sum of $5000, and to assist
the said clerk in the business of buying sugar and cotton.
Avegno agreed to do this; and, in pursuance of his agreement, did deliver the said sum to the said clerk, in the said
interior parishes, then in the possession arid under the col,trol of the rebels.
"While the said clerk and the said Avegno were in the
said parishes, on the 27th day of April, 1862, the city of
New Orleans was captured by the United States forces, and
thenceforth through the whole term of the rebellion was
held by those forces.
APPEAL

UNITED STATES v.

-*

LAPtNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"WAfter the said capture, the said clerk with the said sum
of $5000 and other moneys collected by him in the said parishes, which parishes were, when the purchases were made,
in the possession and under the control of the rebels, bought
in different lots a quantity of cotton, and left it at the places
where it was purchased.
"He returned from those parishes to New Orleans on
the 14th of July, 1862, There was no evidence of any communication having been had between him and Lap6ne &
Ferr4, in relation to the said purchases of cotton, between
the capture of New Orleans and his own return to that city,
except the aforesaid delivery. to him by Avegno of the said
$5000.
"The cotton so purchased remained at the points at which
it was purchased until April and May, 1863, when it was
captured by military forces of the United States and shipped
to and received by the Federal authorities at New Orleans."
Hereupon Lapbne & Ferr4 filed a petition in-the Court of
Claims, claiming the cotton or the proceeds ofit as their
property; and the Court.of Claims decreed that it belonged
to them. From this decree the United States took the
present appeal.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General,for the appellant, relied
on Griswold v. Waddington,* United States v. (rossmayer,t and
Montgomery v. United States..
Mr. W. P. Clarke, Contra, sought to distinguish the case
from the cases mePtioned, and relied on United States v. Anderson.ยง
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
All commercial contracts with the subjects or in the territory of the enemy, whether made directly by one in person,
or indirectly through an agent, who is neutral, are illegal
and void. This principle is now too well settled to justify
15 Johnson, 57; 16 Id. 438.
j 15 Id. 395.

t 9 Wallace, 72.
9 Id. .56.

Oct. 1873.]

UN.ITED STATES V. LAPbNE.
Opinion of the court.

discussion.* No property passes and no rights are acquired
under such contracts.
In March, 1862, the whole of the State of Louisinua was
in the .military possession of the Confederate forces. Intercourse between the inhabitants of the different portions
therdof was legal, and contracts made, between them were
legal.
On the 27th of April, in the same year, the city of New
Orleans was captured by the military forces of the United
States, and thereafter remained under their control. From
that time commercial intercourse between ,the inhabitants'
of thatecity and the inhabitants of other portions of the State
of Louisiana 'which remained under the Confederate rule
became illegal. Ordinarily the line of non-intercourse is
the boundary line between the territories of contending nations. The recent war in the United States was a civil war,
in which portions of the same nation were engaged in hostile
strife with each other. The State of Louisiana, although
one of the United States, was under the control of the Confederate government and their armies, and was an enemy's
country. While the city of New Orleans was under such
control it was a portion of an enemy's country. When that
city was captured by the forces of the United States, the line
of non-intercourse was changed, and traffic before legal became illegal. - This line was that of military occupation or
control by the forces of the different governments, and not
that of State lines. This principle was expressly decided in
31ordgorne)j v. United Slates.t There the cotton sold was in
the parish of La Fourche, a parish of the State of Louisiana,
and belonged to Johnson, an enemy domiciled in al enemy's
country, to wit, the parish of La Fourche, in the same State.
The sale was made by an agent of Johnson, in the city of
New Orleans, to Montgomery, a British subject. This court
held the sale to be void and that no title passed to Johnson.
Like that in Montgomery's case, the agency here was cre* Woolsey's International Law,
Wallace, 395.

t Suyra.

117; Montgomery v. United States, 15

UNITED STATES-v. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the cse.

at&d.while it was legal to create an agency. In each case,
also, existed the important fact that the transaction of purchase took place' after the parties became residents of hostile
p'rtions of the same State. Burridge was appointed the
agent of Johnson in Montgomery's case, as was the agreement in this case- made \vith Avegno, and, the money advanced by him, while the parties were all residents of and
under the control of the Confederate government. But the
cotton was sold by Burridge, as here the cotton was purchased by the clerk after this relation had ceased. In each
instance the purchase of the cotton was a transaction with
an alien enemy.

The agency to purchase cotton was terminated by the hostile position of the parties. The agency to receive'payment
of debts due to Lapene & Co. may well have continued.
But Avegno was no debtor to that firm. He advanced
money to their agent when it was legal to do so. With tlfis
money, and other moneys belonging to then, while in an
enemys country, the agent of the-plaintiffs bought the cotton in question. This purchase gave effectual aid to the
enemy by furnishing to them the sinews of war. It was
forbidden by the soundest principles of public law. The
purchaser obtained no title to the cotton, and has no claim
against the government for its capture.
JUDG

FNT REVERSED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice MILLER and Mr. Justice FIELD.

UNITED STATES V. BOUTWELL.In the absence of. statutory provision to the contrary, a mandamus against
an officer of the government abates on his death or retirement from
His successor in office cannot be brought in by way of amenA- offi e.
ment of the proceeding or on an order foi the substitutibn of parties.

Mr.1. W. Corwine, in behalf of the owhgers of .
an order on the Treasury of the United States, had applied
ON MOTION.

