Dec. 1872.]

THE NUESTRA

SERORA DE REGLA.

29

Syllabus.

lief on the part of the defendants in view of the other evidence in ,the cause.
The eighth, ninth, and twelfth errors are founded upon
the refusal of the court to instruct the jury that the Merchants' Bank was bound by an alleged settlement of the controversy, if they believed certain evidence which does not
appear upon the bill of exceptions, namely, to the effict that
the president of the Merchants' Bank, on the day after the
presentation of the check sued on, in a conversation with
Hutchinson, acceded to his view of the subject and allowed
Sherman's note as part payment of the check. It appears
that the court granted the two former instructions prayed
for, with this qualification, namely, provided the loan was
originally ma de between the defendant and the Merchants'
Bank, and not with Sherman, or that the proceeds went to
the benefit of the bank as part of its assets or property.
As the bank went into bankruptcy within forty-eight hours
after this supposed settlement, the qualification was probably not an unreasonable one. But as the bill of exceptions
before us does not contain a particle of evidence on the subject, it is unnecessary to decide this question.
These being all the errors assigned, the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

THE KUESTRA SERORA DE REGLA.
1. In prize cases, wherever it appears that notice of appeal or of intention to
appeal to this court was filed with the clerk of the District Court within
thirty days next after the final decree therein, an appeal will be allowed
to this court whenever the purposes of justice require it.
2. Cunsel fees before a commissioner on the settlement of damages on an
award of restitution, disallowed as excessive and unwarranted.
3. A Spanish-owned vessel on her way from New York to Havana put in
distress, by leave of the admiral commanding the squadron, into Port
Royal, S. C., then in rebellion, and blockaded by a government fleet,
and- was there seized as prize of war and used by the government ...
She was afterwards condemned as prize, but ordered to be restored. She
never was restored. Damages for her seizure, detention, and value being

Ti

IENUESTRA

SESORA DE :REGLA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
awarded. Held, that clearly she was not lawful prize of war or subject
of capture; and that her owners were entitled to fair indemnity, though
it might be well doubted whether the case was not more properly a subject for diplomatic adjustment than for determination by the courts.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Southern District
of New York.

The steamer Nuestra Seflora de Regla, then recently built
in New York for a Spanish corporation doing business in.
Cuba, and owned by it, was on her way, November, 1861,
to Havana. On her voyage thither, being in distress and
-wantof coal, she put into Port Royal, near Obarleston, S. C.
(then in rebellion against the United States, and blockaded
by a government squadron), under permission of the admiral in command. She was here seized November 29th, 1861,
as prize of war, and used by the government till June%1862;
when she was brought to New York and condemned in
prize. On the 20th of-June, however, in the following year
(the United States in the meantime using the vessel), a decree of restitution was ordered. The vessel, however, never
was restored. The case being referred to a commissioner to
ascertain the damages for the seizure and detention, he made
a report on the 10th of May, 1871, in which he awardedFor the use of the vessel from November 29th, 1861,
up to and including June 20th, 1863, being 568
days, with interest at the rate of six per cent. per
.
annum to the date of his report, .
For expenses and services of claimant's agent in re.
maining with and at.tending to said vessel,
For counsel fees in defending Mhe proceedings, .
For the value of the vessel when she shall have been
restored, at the rate of six per cent., with interest,
Total, .$214,881

$167,370 66
5,680 00
5,000 00
36,833 331
00

Several exceptions (not necessary to be specified, as they
were not passed on by this court) were taken to this report
by the government, but on the 28th of October, 1871, the
exceptions were overruled and the report confirmed, and
final judgment rendered against the libellants and captors
for said sum, together with $6086.84, interest thereon from

Dee1872.]

THE NUESTRA SESORA DE REGLA.

31

Opinion of the court.

the date of the report to the date of this decree, the sum as
finally decreed amounting, in all, to $220,970.84.
On the 7th of November, 1871, the United States filed
with the clerk of the District Court at New York, notice
that the libellant "appeals to the Supreme Court of the
United States from the decree made in the said action on
the 28th of October, 1871," and the case was now here, and
a notice of the appeal served by copy on the proctor for the
claimants, on the 17th of the same month. On the 17th of
February, 1872, the appeal was allowed by Mr. Justice
Swayne, of the Supreme Court, at Washington, and the
claimants cited to appear before said court on the 21st of
March, 1872.
The questions were argued in this court:
1st. Whether the court had jurisdiction?
2d. If it had, how the case stood on merits?
Mtr. G. E. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. C. H. Hill,
W. Ji. .Evarts
Assistant Attorney- General,for the apmellants; .Mr.
and C. -Donohue, contra
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In prize cases, wherever it appears that notice of appeal,
or of intention to appeal, to this court was filed with the
clerk of the District Court within thirty days next after the
final decree therein, an appeal will be allowed to this court
whenever the purposes of justice require it. An appeal is
accordingly allowed in this case, under the second section
of the act of March 3d, 1873, making appropriations for the
naval service, and for other purposes.
The decree of the District Court included the sum of
$5000, for counsel fees. We think that the amount was
greatly excessive, and the allowance of counsel fees wholly
unwarranted,
It is clear that the vessel was not lawful prize of war or
subject of capture, and the corporation which owned her is
doubtless entitled to fair indemnity for the losses sustained
by the seizure and employment of the vessel; but it may be

BRANSON V. WIRTH.

[Sup. Ct.

'Syllabus.

well doubted whether it is not more properly a subject of
diplomatic adjustment than of determination by the courts.
For the errors in the decree already indicated, it is
YERSED, and

RE-

the cause is
REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.,

BRANSON V. WIRTH.
The government, as appeared by the exemplification of the record of a patent,
had granted, January 10th, 1818, to A. the northeast quarter of a certain tract of land, in pursuance confessedly of a warrant and location
upon that quarter; the exemplification of the record of the patent, however, showing that eight years after the date of the patent a 'memorandum : had been made [by whom did not appear] on this record,
that the patent itself was issued for the southeast quarter. The government had confes.edly issued a patent to Z. for this southeast quarter on
the 7th of January, 1818; that is to say, three days before the date of
the pfitent to A., for whatevrr corner the patent to A. really was. In
1819 A. conveyed to B. the southeast corner, describing it as the quarter
which had been granted by patent to him, January 10th, 1818. In
1824 B. conveyed to C., describing the land as the southeast corner. In
1825 0. conveyed to D.; and in 1829 D. conveyed to E., the deeds of
both these last describing the land as the southeast corner;, but the latter
deed not being put on record. In 1827 a private act of Congress was
passed authorizing the legal representative or assignee of A. to register
with the register of the proper land office any unappeopriated quartersection, &c., "1in lieu of the quarter-section patented to the said A. on
the 10th of January, 1818, which had been previously patented to Z.;"
and in pursuance of this act E. did, in 1838, enter another lot.
In 1843, on an assumption that the government had conveyed away its
title to it, the northeast quarter -was sold under the laws of Illinois for
State taxes and bought by 0. And in 1868, on an assumption that the
title was still in the government, the same quarter was patented by the
United States to P.
On a suit by P. against 0., H-eld1st. On a, supposition that the patent was given for the northeast quarter,
that there was no estoppel shown either by the deeds from A. to E.,
both inclusive, or by the act of Congress.(it being a private act), or by
E.'s selection of a new lot which prevented the defendants from showing the truth of the cise, to wit, that the patent was for the northeast
quarter.

