EX PARTE WARMOUTIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

thorized to sell, without the intervention of a court of
equity.* The property when sold under the mortgage of
Hovey was hastening to decay.

When, he bought, it rented

for $5000 per year. When Sloan bought, its condition was
such that it could be rented for only $500.
When this bill was filed nearly eight years had elapsed
since the sale was made to Sloan. Making allowance for
the difficulty of intercourse between the North and the
South during the war, there was acquiescence, express and
implied, for three years after, the war ceased. This, if not
conclusive, weighs heavily against the complainant. Ve
see no reason to disturb the decree. This conclusion has
rendered it unnecessary to consider so much -of the record
is relates to R. R. Bridgers and his associates and their vendee, Commodore Wilkes. We have given no thought to
that part of the case.
DECREE AFrnmE.

Justices MILLER, FIELD, and STRONG were absent.

EX PARTE WARMOUTH.
I. Where the Circuit Court of the United States proceeds to exercise jurisdiction under the twenty-third section of the act of 31st May, 1870, entitled "An act to enforce the rights of citizens of the United States to
vote in the several States of this Union, and for other ptrposes," an
appeal will lie to this court from its final decree.
2. This court has no power to issue the writ of prohibition in such a cause
until such appeal is taken.

SuR application of -1. 0. Warmouth, for a prohibition to
the circuit judge for the district 6fLouisiana.
The application now. made was filed-December 10tb, 1872,
based on a bill (and the proceedings under It) which had
*Demarest and Wife) v. Wynko op, 3 Johnson's Chancery, 184.

Dec. 1872.]

Ex

PARTE "WARMOUTH.

Statement of the case.

been filed November 16th, 1872, on the equity side of the
Circuit Court fir the district of Louisiana, wherein one Kello-g was complainant, and Warmouth, Wharton, Hatch,
Da Pont6, McEnery, and the New Orleans Repuhlican
Printing Company, defendants; all the parties being
averred to be citizens of Louisiana.
That bill averred that in November, 1872, an election was
held for governor and lieutenant-governor, as well as for
officers of the executive, judicial, and legislative departments; that the complainant and one McEnery were opposing candidates for governor; that at the election no one was
enabled to vote who had not been registered; that Warmouth had appointed supervisors of registration with the
fraudulent intent of preventing persons entitled to vote from
being registered, and that in fact a large number, estimated
at ten thousand, were on f'ivolous pretences prevented from
being registered, and were thus prevented from voting for
Kellogg, the complainant; that Warmouth, combining-with
the supervisors afid assistants, had caused a false count to
be made of the votes, and given untrue returns and certificates of election; that in counting the votes and issuing
certificateg he had not complied with the law of the State;
that he had illegally appointed Wharton secretary of1 state,
and with him elected Hatch and Da Pont6 members of the
returning board ; that it was the intention of this board to
make a pretended canvass of the votes, so as to exclude from
the count the votes of persons of color prevented from being
cast, and thus to deliver to the pretended secretary of state
such certificate of result as to make it appear that the said
McEnery was elected, which would embarrass and delay him
in the, prosecution of legal proceedings in the said Circuit
Court; that he believed it to be the intention of Warmouth
to mutilate the said certificates and returns, and that they
should be preserved for proper action when the time for
such action shall arrive.
The bill then prayed for an injunction, restraining the
defendants from canvassing any return or certificate, or subVOL. XVII.

5

Ex

PARTE WARMOUTH.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

mitting the same to the pretended board, composed of Wharton, Hatch, and Da Ponte:
That an injunction issue to McEnery, prohibiting him
from acting as governor, or setting up any claim to the office.
That an injunction also issue to the Tew Orleans Republican Printing Company, controlling the publication of the
New Orleans Republican, restraining it from publishing any
notice, statement, or document relating to said election, and
emanating from said board.
The bill further prayed that Warmouth deposit with the
clerk sworn copies of all the papers relating to the said election, in order thdt they may be beyond his power of de-struction.
Further, that the writ of injunction might be granted in
the first instance pendente lile, and after due proceedings be
made perpetual.
On this bill restraining orders were issued as prayed for,
November 17th, 1872, and subsequently, to wit, on 19th of
November, 1872, process in contempt for disobeying such
.orders, and requiring the present petitioner to answer interrogatories as to what he had done as governbr of Louisiana
,on the premises.
In presenting the application now made, it was shown to
.this court that since the filing of it the said circuit judge
had issued the following order:
"In order to prevent the further obstruction of the proceedings in this cause, and further to prevent the violat:n of the
orders of this court to the imminent danger of disturbing the
public peace, it is hereby ordered, that the marshal of the United
States, for the district of Louisiana, shall forthwith take posseision of the building known as the Mechanics' Institute, and
occupy the State House fbr the assembling of the legislature
there .in the city of New Orleans, and hold the same subject
to further order of this court; and meanwhile prevent all unlawful assemblage therein under the guise or pretext of authority claimed by virtue of, pretended canvass and returns
made by said. pretended returhing officers in contempt and violation of said restraining.ordr. - But the marshal is directed to

Dec. 1872.]

MASON V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

allow the ingress or egress to and from the public office in said
building of persons entitled to the same."
This proceeding by the circuit judge purported to be
based on the act of Congress, 31st May, 1870, entitled "An
act to enforce the-rights of citizens of the United States to
vote in the several States of this Union and for other purposes."*
The 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 19th, and 20th sections of the act
are intended to preserve the right of the voter. Each relates
to a specific wrong against him, and constitutes it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment.
The 23d section gives a remedy to one deprived of his
election to any office. The remedy is to consist in "anyappropriatesuit or proceeding to recover possession of the office."
Messrs. P. Phillipsand E. N. Ogden, in behalf of the petitioner;
1Messrs. Caleb Cushing and M. H. Carpenter,contra. Mr. T. .
Durant,whom the court declined to hear,for the State of Louisiana.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
We are all of opinion that when a final decree shall be
rendered in the Circuit Court in this case, an appeal will lie
to this court. We are also of opinion that this court has no
jurisdiction in this case to issue a writ of prohibition until
an appeal is taken.

MASON V. UNITED STATES.
The United States offered to A. an order for 50,000 muskets on certain terms
specified, with an agreement that 100,000 would be received if delivered
within a time named. A. accepted the offer, and laid out a large sum
of money in getting his works in condition to execute the order, and
thus and otherwise was able and ready to execute it. Subsequently to
this the War Department appointed a commission to adjust all contracts, orders, and laims on the deplhrtment in respect to arms, its de16 Statutes at Large, 140.

