REA v. MfSSoURL

[Sup.

at.

Syllabus.

estate was before it for settlement, 'although publication was.
made by the auditor for the presentatiou of claims. No explanation is made or attempted of this neglect, and the only
grounds disclosed by the bill for relief are-fully met by the
answe:s, and re not ustained by any-proof.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the decree
of the court below, dismissing the bill, was correct; and it
is unnecessary to consider the objections to it founded upon
the non-joinder of thesarviving partners of Withers, and
the statute of limitations.
DECREE APFIRMIED.

REA v. MIssoURI.
1. Although a -greater latitude is allowable in the cross-examination of a
party who places himself on the stand, than in that of other witnesses,
still, where the cross-examinatioil'is directed to inatterg not inquired
about in theprincipal examination its course and extent are very largely
subject to the control of the court in the exercise of a sound discretion ;
and the exercise of that discretion is not reviewable on a writ of error.
2. Where A. bad levied on certain goods as owned by B., which 0. claimed,
the allegation of A. being that there had been collusion between'B. and
0 , and that 0. was a mere inqtrument of B:, he!d on a suit by C. against
A. for damages-(the jury having been charged by the circuit judgein
a way not excepted to, and coming in for additional instructions and.
being again charged by the district judge, who now happened to be on
the bench)1st. That where the manifest tendency of the additional instructions, contrary to that of the original vharge, was to give the jury the impression
that evidence was required of a ehdracter more direct and positive than
that of facts and circumstances tending to the conclusion of fraud, and
such as might reasonably induce the jury tb believe that C. held 'the
property but in trust for B., the additional instructions were erroneous.
.Andfurther, that it would not be inferred by this courtthat the jury had.
taken them in connection with the qualifications made in the original
charge.
2d. That any statements made by.B. in the absence of 0., which were afterwards assented to by the latter or were part of the res gesia, were evidence in the suit.

Oct. 1873.]

REA V. MIssouRL
Statement of the case.

3d. That an intimate personal and business relation between B. and C.
having been shown, it was error to instruct the jury that it was immaterial Ps to the ownership of the goods how C. acquired his means, or
whether his exhibit of them was correct or not.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case being thus:
The First National Bank of Washington, D. C., in 1899,
having a judgment against one Perry Fuller, who had been
a large dealer with the Indians on the Western frontier,
having more than one trading-place there, levied on certain
goods at St. Louis, in Missouri, which they alleged to be
his. One Hayes, however, claimed them ; and the sheriff
refusing to go on with his levy unless indemnified, the bank,
along with Rea and another, in accordance with a statute of
Missouri, executed a bond to the State of Missouri, conditioned that the bank should indemnify the sheriff against
the seizure of the goods, and should also pay Hayes, and
any person claiming title to the property, for aii damages
which they should sustain in consequence of such seizure
and sale.
The sheriff hereupon sold the goods under the attachment, and thereupon an action was brought in the name of
the State of Missouri on the relation and to the use of Hayes
against the sureties in the boild, Rea, and the other; the
suit, of course, being in fact, one by Hayes, for an illegal
seizure and sale of his goods.
The bank set up that the goods belonged to Fuller, and
that the purchase of them by Hayes was a simulated and
fraudulent one, and was in truth made for the benefit of
Fuller.
The great question on the trial was whether there was or
was not a fraudulent scheme between the two persons, by
which the goods in questi6n were to be purchased in Hayes's
name, but in secret trust for the use and benefit of Fuller,
wholly or in part.
In the-course of the trial Hayes, the virtual plaintiff, was
placed on the stand, by his own counsel, to show the value

R:E& V . M ISSOURI.

[Sup. 6%.

Statement of the case.

of the goods in question, and the fact that he had purchased
them on his own account alone. His cross-examination was
very long, covering fifty pages of the printed record, and took
a wide range. It appeared on this cross-examination that in
1865 he had been a clerk in the Indian Department at a
salary of $1500, and bad a wife and child, and that these
goods were bought in 1869, and had cost about $24,000, being
bought partly for cash and partly on credit. Td explain his
ability to make a purchase, in either way, on soconsiderable
a-scale, the witness having stated that in 1865-some four
years before the goods were bought-bhe was worth $45,000,
he was asked how he had acquired that sum. As to a portion of it he stated that he had advanced money,-sometimes
83000 or $4000, and from that to $6500 at a time,-fo a third
person to buy up government vouchers on speculation; and
that he and this person had shared, share and share alike in
the profit.
The record then disclosed the following dialogue:
Counsel for the defendants (to the witness):
Question. To whom did you lend this money to buy Indian
,vouchers?
Answer. To a friend of mine.
Question. Who was it?
Answer. If the court requires I shall tell the name, not
without.
Question. You decline to answer?
Answer. If the court requires it. I will answer.
The Court. If there is some reason why he does not wish to
disclose the name, the court will not oblige him to do it.
Counsel for the defendants. The witness might answer the
questions; they are very short.
The Court. He may have personal reasons why he does not
choose to name the parties; if so, I won't press him.
Counsel for the plaintiff. Suppose the man was an officer of
the government, and made himself criminally liable?
Counsel for the defendants. Then let the witness state it.
The Court. If there are personal reasons why the witness does
not choose to answer, he need not state it.
Witness. I prefer not to give it.

Oct. 1873.]

REA V.

MVISSOURL

Statement of the case.

And thereupon, no answer being given, an exception was
noted.
Hayes also stated in his cross-examination, that Fuller &
Co. and McDonald & Fuller, firms dealing with the Indians,
and in which Perry Fuller was interested, were indebted to
him for services rendered to them in certain contracts which
they had with the government in 1866, and that they had
paid him large amounts on that account, a matter which thedefendants denied to be true.
The goods had been purchased at New York by Hayes,
and the bills made and the goods shipped to St. Louis in
his name alone.
A great mass of evidence of a circumstantial character
was taken on the subject, showing the history and character
of the connection between Hayes and Fuller; and as the defendants contended, tending to prove that Hayes was a mere
tool of Fuller's, in this as well as other transactions. It was
shown that Hayes had been in intimatd relations with Fuller
previously to this purchase; that Fuller. though a dealer
with the Indians, and in the West, was much in Washington, and that Hayes, as already said, was a clerk in theIndian
Department in that city, and that the two persons were acquainted in this manner in 1861; that Fuller being afterwards, 1868, appointed revenue collector at New Orleans,
Hayes was appointed an appraiser under him, with a salary
of 01800; that in the matter of the purchase of the goods
levied on, Fuller recommended'Hayes as a purchaser of
them, certified to his responsibility, indorsed his notes fora
part of the purchase-money, and pledged his wife's securities as collateral to a portion thereof: A great variety of
other evidence of many kinds was given tenaing, as the
counsel of the defendants conceived, to show intimacy and
collusion. Amongst this evidence were various declaratiQns
of both Hayes and Fuller, made at different times, as well
when they were together as when they were not.
The testimony being closed the circuit judge charged the
jury thus:
"If you find from the evidence that Hayes was the sole

REA v. Misso[uI.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
owner of the goods, and that Fuller had no interest or right of
property therein, then the bank had no right to levy its attachment upon them, and the defendants are liable to the plaintiffs
for their damages.
"But if you find that Fuller owned the property attached, or
was a copartner, though a secret copartner with Hayes in respect to said goods, or had a joint interest in them, then, in
either case, the bank had a right to attach the goods, and the
defendants are not liable in'this action; and in this action are
not liable although Hayes, as between himself and Fuller, may
have had a joint interest, with Fulier, in the goods"
After stating that the goods were purchased in New York
in the name of Hayes, and that the bills we'e made to him,
and that primfifacie, therefore, the goods would be Hayes's,
the learned judge added:
"But the bank asserts that, although 'the goods were thus
purchased ostensibly or apparently in the name of Hayes, yet
that the purchasb was in pursuance of a secret agreement or
uniderstanding between Hayes and Fuller, to the effect that
Hayes should buy, in his own name, but for Fuller's benefit and
use, or for the joint use and benefit of Hayes and Fuller, and
that the motive or inducement for this arrangement or understanding was that Fuller was in embarrassed circumstances, or
was apprehensive of trouble if his name was known in the purchase. In other words, the bank alleges that there was a fraudulent scheme between Fuller and Hayes, by which goods were to
be purchased in Hayes's name, but in secret trust for the -use
and-benefit of Fuller wholly or in part."
The learned judge then told the jury that the alleged
fraudulent scheme might be established by circumstances;
that it was not-necessary to establish it by express or positive testimony; and after other pertinent remarks, not now
material to be stated, the case was submitted.
The jury having remained out until the next morning
failed to agree, and returned into court, when they were
again charged by the district judge, then holding a Circuit
Court, as follows:
[" If the property in question was bought and.shipped solely

Oct. 1878.]

~V.MISSOURIt.
Oct. 873.]REA
Statement of the case.

in the name of Hayes, then the jury should find the ownership
to be exclusively his, unless the defendants have proved that
notwithstanding such purchase and shipment, the fact really is
that the ostensible and apparent ownorship of Hayes was to
cover up and conceal a proprietary interesrof Fuller in the
goods. In other words, the possession of the goods by Hayes,
the same having been bought and shipped solely in tiis name,
throws upon the defendants the burden of proving that Fuller
bad a property interest therei*n, or was part owner thereof.]
["The defendants, in proving a secret or other agreement or
understandingbetween Hayes and Fuller as to ownership of these
goods, must first establish that fact by competent evidence, independent of any declarations 'or statements by Fuller in the
absence of Hayes.]
["In order to prove such understanding, the defendants cannot resort to such declarations or statements by Fuller; hence,
discarding from your minds on that branch of the inquiry all
statements made by Fuller in the absence of Hayes, you should
first determine whether such an understanding existed. If it
did not exist, or is not proved by testimony independent of such
statements by Fuller, then the jury cannot consider such statements by Fuller as any evidence whatever in this case. If satisfied by such independent evidence that such an understanding
existed, then Fuller's declarations are competent testimony, and
not otherwise.]
[" It is immaterial as to the ownershippf the goods how Rayes
acquired his means, or whether his exhibit of his means was
correct or not, if he actuially bought the goods solely for himself. The merchants of whom he bought, if the pulrchase was
based on false representations, had their legal redress, but the
defendants cannot impair the title on such grounds;] that testimony it is proper for the jury to consider in reference to the
credibility of Hayes as a witness, and also as tending to show
what connection, if any, Hayes had at the time with Fuller, and
so with respect to the manner in which he acquired his means
or credit.
[" If he wronged the government, or violated his official obligations, or procured an unfair advantage in his settlement with
Fuller & Co. or McDonald & Fuller, this is not the case in which
he is to be tried for such alleged misconduct. This is a simple
question as to the ownership of'the goods in controversy, and not as

REA V.

MIISSOURL

[Slip. ot.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

to other or outside questions, and such questions have.nothing
to do with the merits of this case further than they affect the
credibility of witnesses, or throw light upon the alleged understanding between Hayes and Fuller as to their ownership of this
property."]
After this last charge the jury brought in a verdict of
$23,127; and judgment being entered accordingly, the defendant brought the case here on an exception to the ruling
as to THayes's refusal to, answer, and on exceptions to different
parts, put above in brackets, including, in all, almost every
part of the charge as last above given. No exception was
taken to the charge of the circuit judge; on the contrary, it
was admitted to be proper.
Messrs. J .B. Henderson and A. F. Smith, for the plaintiffft

error :
1. As to the refasal of the court to make Hayes,name the third
person, stlyled his friend; the exception to, the ruliig,of the court,
on the admission of evidence.
Whether or not Hayes. did own $40,000 when he bought
these goods was a question of'capital importance in. the case.
If he did, HE might well have bought them. If he did not,
and owned nothing, Hs could not have bought them at all;
and this, his inability to, buy them, taken in connection with
the intimate relation, both generally and in this particular
transaction, shown with Fuller, made patent the collusion
and fraud which was set up and charged by the bank, and
which was the gist of the case. The matter which it was
sought by the question to prove went, therefore, directly to
the foundation of the case. There was nothing irrelevant
or even collateral in it.
Moreover, the question put was one invited, by what the
witness himself had shown, to wit, that he had, been but an
inferior clerk-one at $1500 a year-and had a wife and
child with himself to provide for. How then did he, during
that time, come to get $40,000 ?
Our purpose in the question was obvious. We wished
Hayes to name his alleged friend, that we might call that

Oct. 1873.]

REA V. MgISSOURI.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

"friend" and show by him that Hayes's statement was false,
and that Hayes had never made anything in the way alleged.
The witness, it will be observed, did not set up as a ground
for his refusal that a disclosure of his alleged friend's name
would criminate either the friend or himself. He simply
declined to name him; and the court sustained the witness.
Now, while it is no doubt true, that when a witness is
under cross-examination and the object of counsel is merely
to test his accuracy, or his memory, or to impeach him by
an exposure of his transactions outside of the case on trial,
the whole control of the cross-examination rests 'With the
judge who presides, and that the judge may either restrict the counsel or may throw the door wide open-the
only limits being that the witness shall not be required fo
give evidence tending to prove himself guilty of a crime,
and that he shall not be required to expose himself to a
penalty or forfeiture-yet when the evidence in question is
principal evidence, and is n6t collateral or irrelevant to the
issue, the witness will not be excused from answering. And
this is true even if it appear that the answer will tend to degrade him ;* a matter which, as we have said, was not here
alleged.
Further. A witness having voluntarily and without objection testified-to part of a transaction in such a manner
as favorably to affect the case of one side, cannot afterwards
object to tell the remainder of the story, when such remainder
might afford an explanation or an answer to the part already
told. And this is again true, even though telling the remainder will tend to convict the witness of a crime.t
454; 2 Phillips on Evidence, 939 (ed. of
80, 81; The People v. Abbot, 19
Evidence,
on
Swift
593;
note
also
1859),
Wendell, 192-195; Great Western Turnpikce Company v. Loomis, 32 New
York, 127, 137; The People v. Lohman, 2 Barbour, 224-5; Lohman
v. The People, 1 Comstock, 379-385; In re Lewis, 39 Howard's Practice
Reports;, 155; Hill v. State, 4 Indiana, 112; Weldon v. Burch, 12 Illinois,
374; Clementine v. State, 14 Missouri, 112; State v. Douglass, 1 Id. 527;
Ward v. State, 2 Id. 120; Ginn v. The Commonwealth, 5 Littell; 300; Clark
v. Reese, 35 California, 89.
t Roberts v. Garen, 1 Scammon, 396; Pitcher v. The People, 16 Michigan,

1 Greenleaf on Evidence,

R k i7. ISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the defendant in error.

2. As to the additionalinstructions: While -the first charge
properly left to the jury the real question in the casenamely,-whether the.goods bought by Hayes in his own
name were bought upon some secret trust for the benefit
of Fuller-the additional instructions, or new charge, as it
really was anid might be better called, was calculated to lead
the jury to throw out of account every consideration but the
one, who bought the goods, and to give no weight to the
facts, which tended to prove that there was a secret trust
for Fuller.
The additional instructions or new charge, moreover, gave
an unusual and- a prejudicial prominence to the consideration that if Hayes wr'onged the government, or violated his
official obligatiobs, or' procured an unfair advantage in his
settletlent with Fuller & Co.; or McDonald & Fuller, this
was not the case in which he was to be tried for such alleged
misconduct, especially when the judge added, "This is a
simple question as to the ownership of the goods in controversy,
and hot-as to other or outside questions."
This was almost like directing a verdict for the plaintifi.
Besides this, the additionat instructions or new charge left
out of view the consideration that the jury should consider
the fact whether Hayes had the means to buy these goods
and undertake this business, and that if he had not, the jury
might properly infer that the business Was Fuller's, and that
Hayes was his secret agent.
The effect of the additional instructions or new charge, as
a whole, was to obliterate what the circuit jdg.d had said in
the first charge.
.M1r. J. 0. Broadhead, contra:
1. As to the refusal of the court to make Hayes disclose the
name of the third person, referred to as his friend; the exception
to the ruluig of the court on the evidence.
142; 'Woburn v. Henshaw, 101 Massachusetts, 193; Crittenden v. Strother, 2
Cranch's Circuit Court, 464; Chamberlain'v: Wilson, 12 Vermont, 491; State
v. K--, 4 New Hampshire, 562; Foster v. Pierce, 11 Cushing, 437.; Commonweali.h v. Price, 10 Gray, 472,476; McGarry v. The People, 2 Lansing,
227; Low z. Mitchell, 18 Maine, 374; Coburn v. Odell, 10 Foster, 540.

Oct. 1873.1

R:EA V. MISSOURL

Argument for the defendant in error.

The examination in- chief has no reference to this subject.
Could not the other side, if desiring testimony de novo, have
called the witness ?*
But, under any circumstanc.es, can a witness be compelled
to state a fact in order that the other side may contradict
him? Moreover, an answer, if one had been given-and even
if the information given by it had been followed out-that is
to say, if the friend had been named, and even if that friend
had, said that he had never had any transactions with Hayes
"--wouldnot have been relevant to the matter in issue:
1st. Because all transactions alleged with the friend were
in 1866, more than three years before the purchase of these
goods.2d. Because the witness did not say that he had paid cash
for the goods. On the contrary, it is part of the case that
he did not pay cash for them, but that he bought them
largely on credit. A man who buys largely on credit rarely
has cash. Here the goods cost. but about $24,000, and even
that sum was not paid in cash. Nor indeed does it appear
whether it has ever yet been paid at all.
Moreover, the mattes whether the witness should answer
rested with the judge. ;ie did give a vast latitiude to the
cross-examination. He had a right to say where it should
stop.t
2. As to the additionalinstructions: These were but suppletory to the cbarge, which is admitted by the opposite side to
have been right, and which still remained the principal and
fundamental exposition of principles applicable to the case,
and must have been so regarded by the jury. The whole of the new instructions, when analyzed and
abbreviated, is this:
1st. That if Hayes bought and shipped.the goods in his
own name, then p rima fae they are his, and the burden of
proving a property interest in Fuller is on the defendants.
2d. That the alleged secret understanding between Hayes
The Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad v. Stiwpson, 14 Peters, 461.
I 463.
lb.

REA V. M/ISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and Fuller, as to the ownership of the goods, cannot be
established by the declarations of Fuller, made in the abgence of Hayes, but that such declarations are competent
against Hayes after the secret understanding is established
by other testimony to the satisfaction of the jury.
3d. That the testimony as to how Hayes acquired his
means; whether his exhibit to the merchants of his means
was correct or not, whether he took an unfair advantage in
his settlements with Fuller & Go., or McDonald & Fuller, is
immaterial as to the ownership of the goods, but competent
and proper to be considered by the jury as affecting the
credibility of Hayes, and as tending to show what connec.tion there was between Hayes and Fuller at the time of the
transactions to which this testimony is directed.
What is there in any one of these charges that does not
embrace a Correct proposition of law?
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
1. As to the exceplion to the ruling of the court on the admission
of evidence in the case. The cross-examination of Hayes was
very, long, and took a wide range: much wider than is
allowed in United States courts in the case of an ordinary
witness, where the cross-examination is usually coufined
within the scope of the direct examination.* But a greater
latitude is undoubtedly allowable in the cross-examination
of a party whoplaces himself on the stand than in that of
other witnesses. Still, where the cross-examination is directed to matters not inquired about in the'principal examination, its course and extent is very largely subject to the
control of the court in the exercise of a sound discretion;
and the exercise of that discretion is not reviewable on a
writ of error. That was precisely the case here. The witness, on his cross-examination, having stated that he was
worth $45,000 at. a period some four years prior to the purchase of the goods, was asked how he had acquired that
* Johnston v. Jones et al., 1 Black, 216 ; Teeso et al. v. Huntingdon et al.,
23 Howard, 2.

Oct. 1873.]

REA V. MISSOURI.

Opinion of the court.

sum. As to a portion of it he stated that he had advanced
money to a friend to buy up government vouchers on speculation upon shares. Being asked to name this friend, he declined; and the court refused to compel him to disclose it.
This refusal was excepted to. We think it was entirely in
the discretion of the court to compel an answer or not. It
was on a new matter first introduced on the cross-examination, and was in fact a cross-examination upon a cross-examination. If a court did not possess discretionary power
to control such a course of examination, trials might be rendered interminable.
2. As to the exception to the additionalinstructions of the court.
This presents a more serious question; and an examination
of them leads us to the conviction that, taken as P whole,
they were calculated to mislead the jury as to the character
of the evidence necessary to make out the charge of fraud
and to prove the issue on the part of the defendants.
To establish frau'd, it is not necessary to prove it by direct
and positive evidence. Circumstantial evidence is not only
sufficient, but in most cases it is the only proof that can be
adduced. It was not necessary in this case, for the defendants, in order to maintain the issue on their part, to pro "e
by dilrect and positive evidence, that Fuller had a secret
trust or property in the goods. It was sufficient if they
proved such facts and circumstances tending to that conclusion as might reasonably induce the jury to believe that he
had such trust or property. The sufficiency of such circumstantial evidence was not, in our judgment, properly presented to the jury; but, on the 6ontrary, the manifest tebdency of the charge was to give them the impression that
evidence of a more positive and direct character was required. The court said: "The possession of the goods by
Hayes, the same having been bought and shipped solely in
his name, throws upon the defendant the burden of proving
that Fuller had a property interest therein, or was part
owner thereof." Whilst this may have been strictly true in
a sense in which it might be understood by an educated
lawyer, it did not express the whole truth in a form likely

REA v. MIS1OuURL.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of thq court.

to be understood. by.the jury in such a complicated case as
the one before them. 5'Property interest" and "ownership" are words of precise legal signification, and -the jury
might readily con.cludethat an interest or trust in the goods,
by which Fuller, was to receive, Qr to participate in the
profits, was not such property or ownership.- And yet such
an initerest o.r trust would have been sufficient to sustain the
charge made by the defendants, and to entitle. them to a
verdict.
The passage quoted is but one of several expressions contained in the charge, all'tending to give the'impression that
a technical ownership or property in Fuller was necessary
to be proved, in order to sustain the validity of the seizure
of the goods under the attachment. A furtherspecificatiou
is unnecessary.
. It may be.urgedthat the qualifications made in the original charge given to tile jury before they were sent out, Tendered,further qualification unnecessary in the -final charge
On the contrary,4t is a more just
now underconsideratioinference to suppose that the final charge was regarded by
the jury as-explanatory and corrective of the first. * And as
the .point on. which they were likely to have had,.,difficulty and diference of opinion, would be the sufficiency of
the circunmstanpes proved, to.nmake out the case of the de-.
fendants,,a charge like that which was finally given; coming
after their fruitless discussion, ignoring altogether the force
of circumstauttial evidence, and reiterating that the. only
issue was property or no, property in .Fuller, must have had
a strong. ten,dency to lead them -to ail entire disregard of
such evide:ice.
We.also think-the judge erred in laying it down so absolutely as be did, that the defendants in proving a secret or,
other agreeiet or understanding between Hayes aud Fuller
as to the ownership of the goods, must first establish that
fact independent of any declaratious, or statements by Fuller
in the absence of Hayes. Any statements made by Fuller
inthe absence of Hayes, which were afterwards assented to
by the latter, or which were a-part of the res gesto of the

ELDRED v.

Oct. 1873.]

.BANK.

Syllabus.

purchase'of the. goods, were competent evidence. For example, the statement of Fuller when commending Hayes to
the vendors of the goods, that he was worth forty or fifty
thousand dollars, if shown to be untrue, was very material
evidence.
We also think the judge erred in instructing the jury that
it was immeiterial as to the ownership of the goods, how
Hayes acquired his means, or whether his exhibit of his
means was correct or not. Considering the connection between Hayes and Fuller, the fact that Fuller recommended
Hayes as a purchaser of the goods, certified to his responsibility, indorsed his notes for a part of the purchase-money,
and pledged his wife's securities as collaberal to a portion
thereof, an inquiry into Hayes's means at the time of the
purchase, and the correctness of his exhibit, was competent
and proper. The opposite idea proceeded from the view of
the case before noticed, to wit, that the only legitimate inquiry was, as to the naked property of the goods. Whereas,
the case really turned upon the ancillary question, whether
Hayes and Fuller were engaged in a fraudulent scheme to
procure goods in the name of Hayes, but for the secret
benefit of Fuller.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO ORDERED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented, on the first point, the
exception to the ruling-of the court on the admission of evidence.

ELDRED.

. RANK

). 'Cho court adheres to the doctrine that a judgment on a note or contract
merges the note or contract, and that no other suit can be maintained
on the same instrument.
2: Such a judgment, when binding personally, can be introduced in evidence
and, relied on as a bar to a second suit on.the note.
VOL. XY

.

85

