'

KIBE"

BENSON.

*[8up. Ct.

Statement of the case.

These 'rincip1es require the affirmation of the decree in
the present case, and it islaccordingly
AI'FIRMED.

Mr, Justice HUNX.T dissented, holding that the transaction
was a loan by the company to the appellant.

, NoYE.
At the same time with the preccdJng 6ase Were subimitied
and adjudged'two other cases, V eyer v. 7'ocke, Assignee,' and
Jaeger v. Same Defendant, both from the same courb as the preceding case, which though differing, both, in some respects,-tbe
latter case .especially, which was a suit at law,-from the one
just above :reported, were declared by. the. court to fall within
the sane governing principles., In both cases the decision bein favo, of the assignee in bankruptcy, and in
low had be.
both it was accordingly ;affirmed.in this ,court.

]KIBBE

v. BENSON.

1. Under a statute which requires .that in 'actions of ejectment where the
premises are aptually, ocupied,,th, declaration shall he served by delivering a copy thereof . . . to the defendant named therein, who shall be
in the ocbupancy :of the preiniseg, or if he be ajs eht by leaving the same
with some white person of -th6 family, of the age of ten years or Iipwa~ds, "qt the dwelling-house of. subh defendant;" a leaving -of the
declaration%with such a white-person qf the fimilywhen he is at a distance of one hundred and twenty-five feet from the house and in a
corner, of 'the y'rd of the house, is hot a compliance with the requirement.of 'the statute.
2: Judgment.obtained by default, on such a service, the defendant not having
had actual notice of what was done, and, averring a good title in himself, set aside on bill in equity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Courf for the'Southern District

of Illinois; the case being ihus:
A statute of Illinois, relating to actions of ejectment,
adopted by the Federal court sitting in the Illinois district,

Oct. 1873.]

13:iBBE v. BmNSON.
Statement of the case.

.

makes the following provision relative to the service of the
writ:
"If the premises are actually occupied the declaration shall
be served by deliverihg a copy thereof with the notice above
prescribed to the defendant named therein, who shall be in the
occupancy thereof, or by leaving the same with some white
person of the family, of the age of ten years or upwards, at the
dwelling-house of such defendant, if he be absent."*
This statute and this provision of it being in force, one
Kibbe brought ejectment in the court below at January Term,
1867, against a certain Pleasant Benson, to recover possession of a tract of land in Illin'ois, containing eighty acres,
upon which there was a dwelling-house in which Benson
with his family lived. A declaration was filed by the plaintiff, and to it was appended an affidavit made by one Turner,
not the marshal or then an officer of justice, though an
agent of Kibbe, thaL on a day specified he, Turner, had
served the declaration and the usual notice to plead by delivering a copy to John Benson, the father of the defendanit
in the case, and a member of his family, at the dwelling-house
iof the said defendant.
No plea being-put in, judgment was. entered by default at
June Term, 1867, but no immediate steps were taken to
enforce the judgraeht. In September, 1869, a writ of possession was issued on the judgment, and Benson was about
to be tur'ued out.
Hereupon he filed a bill in the court below against Kibbe,
to set aside the judgment entered as above mentioned.
The bill, averring a--good and perfect title to the land in
the complainant, set forth the.facts above stated, but denied
that the declaration was served on the father, as sworn to in
the affidavit filed with the declarationa, or that it -was delivered at the complainant's dwelling-house to any member
of the complainant's flimily. It averred, in addition, that
the complainant was ignorant of the 6ommencement or existence of such suit until September, 1869, when a deputy
Gross's Statutes, edition of 1868, p. 245.
voL. xV.

40

KIBBE

v. BENSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

marshal appeared at his house demanding possession of the
land on which he was'living, by virtue of an execution
issued upon the said judgment; that the complainant was
not informed of the existence of the judgment until more
than two years had elapse d from its recovery, within which
time he would have been entitled under the statutes of Illinois to move'to set it aside.
The answer of Kibbe denied the materital allegations Of
the bill, averred that the declaration was delivered to Benson, the father,* who was then and th"ere informed of the
contents of the paper delivered to him and had full notice
of its purpose and object, and it denied specifically that the
writ of possession was withheld for the term of two years.
One principal question, therefore-a question preliminary
to any one of law-was a 'question of fact; in what manner,
if in any, had the declaration been served?.
On this point the testimony of Turner, who made the
oiiginal affidavit, and of on'e Paullin, who was with him
when he made whatever service he did make, were given
in support of the service;oand the .testimony of John Benson, the father (to whom Turner alleged that he had given.
the declaration), and of Pleasaut Benson, the now complainant, were given against it.
Turner testified that on the 13th of September, 1866, he
went to. the dwelling-house .of Benson for the purpose of
servihg him with the declaration, that he knocked at the
front door of the house, inquired for Mr. Benson, was told
by the person opening the door that he was away from
home, and as Turner testified that he thought he was informed, absent in Missouri; that afterwards on the same
day, in' the presence of Paullin, he had a conversation with
John-Benson, the father, and told him that he had come to
make service of the declaration, unless some compromise
should be made; that while Bonson was standing nearthe
southeast corner of the 'yard, adjoining the dwelling-house
and inside of the yard, and not over one hundred and twenty-five
feet from the dwelling-house, he handed to him a copy of the
declaration, explaining its nature and character, reading to

Oct. 1873.]

Xrj3BBE v. BENSON.
Opinion of the court.

him the whole of the notice therein, and requesting him to
hand the same to his son, Pleasant Benson; that the said
John took the same, and after taking it into his hands threw
it upon the ground, muttering some angry words.
Paullin testified substantially to the samething.
Each of these witnesses was subjected to a rigorous crossexamination.
On the other hand, John Benson testified that no paper
was read to him or received by him on the 13th of September, 1866; that at a yointfrorn about one hundred andfifty to one
hundred and eighty' rods from the house, and not within the inclosure, a paper was offered to him, which he utterly refused
to take and did not take.
Pleasant Benson testified that he had no notice or knowl-edge, in any form, of the declaration or'of i6s service; that
his father did not smonw him, deliver to him, or inform him
that a declaration or any other paper had been served upon
him in relation to the land.
The Circuit Court decided that the judgment at law should
be vacated and set aside, the cause reinstated upon the
docket, and be tried in the same manner as though no
former trial had been had therein. It was from this decree that the present appeal was taken.
o counsel appeared for the appellant; Mr. H. S. Greene;
for the appellee.
Mr. Justice H1UNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The cases in which equity will interfere to relieve against
a judgment at law, are reasonably well settled.
1st. It will not relieve against a judgment at law on the
ground of its'being contrary to equity, unless the defendant
was ignorant of the fact creating such equity pending the
trial, or it could not have been received as a defence.*
2d. If the party could -have defended the suit, but allowed
judgment to go by his own neglect, he cannot have relief
• Lansing v. Eddy, I Johnson's Chancery, 49; Barker v. Elkins, Ib. 465;,,
Norton v. Woods, 22 Wendell, 520.

. 628

628
K~~iBlE v. BENSON.[Sp

[Sup.'dtt

Opinion of the court.

in equity for a matter whichhe might have availed himself
of at law.*

3d. If there be a defence, but the party could not agail
himself of it in the suit at law, by reasbn of fraud or accident, equity will relieve against'the judgment at law. The
rule is well expressed by C. J. Marshall in the .MarineInsurance Company v. Hfodqson:" "Without attempting (he says)
to draw any precise line to which equity will advance, and
which, they cannot pass, in restraining parties from availing
themselves of,judgments obtaitied at law, it may safely be
said, that any fact which clearly proves it to be against con-'
science to execute a judgment and of which the injured
party could not have availed himself in a court of law, or
*of which he might have availed himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or accident unmixed with any fault or negligence in himself ox his agents, wil justify anapplication
to a court of chaneery."
The question of jurisdiction in 'the. present case is identical with the question of the merits. If the party has established the facts on which he relies to sustain his action, he
comes within the rules giving relief in equity'against judgments at law. If heis not one of the class entitled to such
relief; he has no standing in.a court of equity. A determination of the allegations of fict upon which the jurisdiction
rests, will, therefore, determine the entire case.
The most important fact in dispute concerns the service
of the declaration ipn John Benson, the fatlle: of the origi.ual defendait; and: the manner and place of such service.
Turner testifies that the service was made at a point not
exceeding one hundred aifd txentuy-five feet from the dwelling-house, but does not assert that it was within any of the
adjoining buildings b "out-houses;"and if within what i
fimiliarly called the door-yard of the establishment, it was
at a remote corner of the yard. Benson, the father, locates"
the scene at a point one hundred and fifty to one hundred
Hew1ett v. Hewlett, 4 Edward's Chancery, 7; Floyd v. Jayne, 6 Johnson's Chancery, 479; Graham v. Stagg, 2 Paige, 321.
t 7 Crancb, 336.

Oct. 1873.]

KRIBBE

v).

BENSON.

Opinion of the court.

and eighty rods distant from the dwelling-house. No one
would contend that a service at this last point could with
propriety be called a service at the dwelling-house.
Some hititude was, no doubt, izitended to be given by this
statute. It is not required that the paper shall be delivered
to a person who is iu the house at the time of such delivery.
It may be delivered to one who is at the dwelling-house
merely. This expresses the idea of nearness of place, and
is less definite than if it had beeii said, in the house or on
the house. To say that one is at home, may mean that he
is in the town or city of his residence, or it may mean that
he is upon his grounds or in his house.
The intended effect of this expression is illustrated by the
other portion of the provision, which forbids (by irnplication) the delivery of the paper to one who is not of the age
of ten years or upwards. If delivered to a young child,
there would not be that probability of its delivery to the
defendant in the suit, which might be expected if it was left
with one understanding the necessity of its delivery to the
person 'for whom it was intended. Both the person upon
whom, and the place where, service may thus-be made, are
intended to secure a delivery to the party interested. It is
not unreasonable to require that it should be delivered on
the steps or on a portico, or in some out-house adjoining'to
or immediately connected witfi the family mansion, where,
if dropped or left, it would be likely to reach its destination.
A distance of one hundred and twenty-five feet and in a
corner of the yard is not a compliance with this requireien t.
The case falls within the scope of the authorities in which
relief is given against-a judgment. 'When Turner made
affidavit that he served the declaration, by delivering the
same to John Benson, at the dwelling-house of his son, he
erred-either as to the law or the fact. If he did not deliver
the paper to Benson at all, he was wrong in his statement'
of fact. If he did deliver it, he was wrong in his conclusion
that he delivered it at the dwelling-house of his son. A
judgment has been entered where the service was insuffi-

S'MIThs1S):

SnOHEMUAKXER..

[sU.ot.

Statement of the case.

cient, and the' defendant has had no opportunity to defend
his estate. It is not necessary to decide upon the conflicting evidence. It is a case, where, either by fraud. or by
accident, or by mistake, without fault on his part,'the defendant has been deprived of the opportunity to make his
defence, and within the rule laid down by 0. J. Marshall,
the judgment must be set aside; andan opportunity afforded
to test the question in acouit of law.
JUDGM.NT AFFIRMED.

SMITHs v. SHOEMAKEj.
1. In an action ofejectment, a letter of the plaintiff's grantor, written to the
ancestor of the defendant, is.not competent evidence to show that the ancestor entered'into possession under the license of the plaintiff-s grantor,
without some evidence that such letter was received or acted on about
the time of such entry by the ancestor.
2. L.general objeetibn that such letter is a declaration of the grantor of his
own rights was sufficient.
3. If, in the appellate court, the party introducing such a letter relies on
any special circumstances as an exception to the rule (as that it was part
of the 2esgestw), that eircumstance must appear in the bill of exceptions
or by the record in some other manner. The admission will be held to
be erroneous unless this appears.
4. There being no extrinsic evidence that the letter was ever received or
acted on by the ancestor, the date found in the letter, though near the
time of entry, is not sufficient evidence of that fact to justify its admission. The important fact being its receipt by the defendant's ancestor,
at a particular time, cannot be established by the date found in the
letter for the purpose of admitting the letter. The date would thus
p~rove the letter, and the letter prove the date, without evidence that
either was true.
5. Wfien it is argued here that an error in the court below worked no injury
to the party complaining, the fact that it worked no injury must be
made to appear beyond question. If it is oiily to be seen by a mere
preponderance of evidence, and the error is substantiated, the judgment must be reversed.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
David Shoemaker brought ejectment, in December, 1868,
against Caroline Smith, Mary Smith, et al., for certaiu real
ERROR

