1'90

HOARRELL V.

BEALL.

u Ct.
[Sup.

Statement of the case.

HARRELL

v.

BEALL,

ASSIGNEE.

Where a question brought to this court is wholly one of the weight of evidence, involving no controverted proposition of law, this court will not,
under the pressure of business which now rests upon it, consider itself
justified in reproducing in its opinion the facts on which its judgment
rests. It will content itself with announcing fully its conclusions upon
the evidenci.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Georgia.
Beall brought a suit in chancery in the court below, in his
character of assignee in bankruptcy of one Jarrell, against a
certain Harrell and one Echols, to set aside what he charged
to be a fraudulent sale to Echols of the bankrupt's property,
and to have the prQperty subjected to the payment of debts
in the bankruptcy proceeding.
The -material allegations of the bill were, that the bankrupt, in a state of insolvency, procured the sale of valuable
real estate belonging to him, under judgments which were
a lien on it, and that by collusion with Echols, who was his
clerk and agent, it 'vas bought in by Echols for a merely
nominal sum, one out of all proportion to its real value;
that the purchase was made really for Jarrell, and the money,
if any, which was actually paid on the execution sale was
furnished by Jarrell; that the title to the land and some
notes for rent remained in Echols's name until he disposed
of them, as it was charged that he had 'done, to the defendant, Harrell; that Harrell purchased with notice of the.
fraudulent conduct-of Echols, and -for a sum far below the
value of tlie property purchased.
The defence of Harrell was, that there was no fraud in
the original purchase by Echols, and if there was any, that
be, Harrell, was an. innocent purchaser for value without
notice.
The question was thus one of fact only.
Upon a large quantity of evidence, which when coming
to this court filled a transcript .or record-book that covered
APPEAL

Oct. 1873.]

HARRELL V. BEALL.
Opinion of the court.

seventy-one 8vo. pages in a style that would make at least
one hundred and twenty-five pages like the body of these
Reports, the court below considered that the sale to Echols
was a plain fraud; and that'if Harrell, who had purchased
from Echols, failed to perceive that it.was so, his failure arose
fronm a culpable inattention to what he was bound to attend
to. That court accordingly decreed in favor of the assignee.
Harrell alone appealed.
Harrell,propriO persond, argued his case, orally, and filed a
brief of his own, and also one of Mr. A. T. Akerm an.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court 4
The appellant has furnished a brief and an oral argument
which .have received the attentive consideration of the court.
There is no appearance here for the appellee, and this has
made us more careful in the examination of the record.
The question is wholly one of the weight of evidence, involving no controverted proposition of law; and the pressure of business on this court will not justify ug in reproducing in -our opinion the facts on which our judgments
rest in such cases. It must suffice to say that we are-convinced that the sale to Echols was a barefaSed frand, and
that if the appellee did -not know it when he purchased of
Echols it was because he intentionally shut his eyes to the
truth, and that he had such notice and information as made
it his duty to itquire further, and that the slightest effort
by- him in that direction would. have discovered the whole
fraud.
Shich were the views on which the decree below was
fQunded, and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice DAVIS.

-

