WILLIAMS V. BAKER.

[Sup. at.

General statement of the case.

general importance.

Suffice it to say they have all been

examined and the court is of the opinion that they must
severally be overruled, and that there is no error iu the
record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

1h. Justice STRONG dissented from this judgment and
from the preceding opinion respecting the construction and
legal effect of the written agreement between the parties.
Mr. Justice HUNT also dissented.

WILLIAMS V. BAKER.
CEDAR, RAPIDS RAILROAD

Co.

r. DES MOInES NAVIQATION

C0.

1. The history given of the le.islatibn of the land grants for the improvement of the Des M1oines River, and of the grants for railroad purposes,
which have been supposed to conflict.
2. This court on full consideration affirms the decision in the cases of lrolcoti
Moines Company (5 Wallace, 681), and Reily v. lVells (dev. The .le.s
clared by this court to have nothing to distinguish it from that ca-P, and
therefore not reported), namely, "that the title to those lands never
passed to the railroad company by the grant under which it claimed,
because, by the express terms of the proviso, they were reserved from the
grant; and that by the Joint Roeohition of Congress of 181. and the
act of 1862, on the same subject, the State of Iowa did receive the title
for the use of those to whom she had sold them as part of the original
Des loines River grant."
3. The decision of Jolcott v. TheDe Moines Company, as an authoritative
exposition of the law of this case, is not weakened by the supposed collusion of the parties to that suit, it being shown by the record that all the
questions were fully argued by other parties who iptervened, and that
the court maturely and deliberately considered the question which they
were now asked to econsider. Nor does this court look with approval
upon a labored effort to prove by testimony that its judgment was obtained by collusion, when the judgment is cited in another case only to
establish principles of law,-and not by way of evidence or estoppel.

[Though th t,*o cases here reported were decided in order
of time prior to that of the .U.mestead'Company r- Valley

Dec. 1872.]

WILLIAMS V. BAKER.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Railroad next in order of place (beginning on page 153), and
are referred to in it, yet the reader who is not already acquainted with the facts of what is known in Iowa as the Des
Moines River land litigation may, possibly, find it as well to
read, before reading the cases now immediately given, the
later one, beginning, as already said, on page 15.3, and in
which a diagram will assist his comprehension of a topography common to both cases.]
ON appeals from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
These were two suits in chancerT, brought originally in
the State courts of Iowa, and transferred to the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district, to quiet title to
real estate. In the first case the complainant was Baker,
who held title under the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company. The defendant was Williams, and he held
under the Cedar Rap. Is Railroad Company. In the second
case,,the Cedar Rapids Railroad Company was complainant,
and the Navigation and Railroad Company, with others,
defendants; and in this suit the complainant set up that
suits at law had been commenced against numerous persons, its grantees, which were harassing and expensive, and
prayed that its title and the title of its said grantees should
be qaicted. The defendants in that suit denied the title
thus set up, and alleged that tlheir own title, that of the Des
Moiies Navigation and Railroad Company, was the true
title. The court below decided, in both cases, in favor of
the parties claiming under the latter title, and in both cases
the adverse side appealed to this court.
.Iessr... . Cook and B. R. Curtis, for the title under the
r712. F. Withrow, contra,
Cedar Rapids Railroad Company;
for that under the Des Moines Company.
Mr. Justice 'MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The foundations of the title on each side of this controversv rest on acts of Congress, and the decision of the cases
requires their construction. The cases are identical, except
that as the holder of each of the conflicting titles becomes
VOL. XVII.
10

WILLIAMS V. BAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

plaintiff in turn, he is thrown upon the strength of his own
title, rather than the weakness of the opposing one.
The title of Baker has its inception in the act of August
8th, 1846,,the material part of which is in these words:
"There-is hereby granted to the Territory of Iowa, for the
purpose of aiding said Territory in improving the navigation of
the Des Moines River from its .mouth to the Raccoon Fork, so
called,.in said Territory, one equal moiety in alternate sections
of the public lands remaining unsold and not otherwise disposed
of, incumbered, or appropriated, in a strip five miles in width on
each side of said river, to be selected within said Territory by
an agent or agents, to be appointed by the governor thereof,
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury of the
United States."
It was also provided that the lands should become the
property'of the State of Iowa on her admission as such into
the Union, which was soon expected.
The State oflIowa passed laws for the work of improving
the navigation of the river, which contemphtted a series of
locks and dams, and after prosecuting the work foe some
time under a State board of public works, made a contract
with a corporation called the Des Moines Navigation and
Railroad Company for the further progress of this improvement. By this contract the lands-of the Congressional grant,
which constituted the 'sole fund for making the improvement, were to be conveyed by the State to the company, at
fixed prices, as they' earned them in the progress of the
work.
The Secretary of the Treasury, as the lands were selected
by the agent of the State and the selections approved by
him, certified the approved lists to the State, and this was,
and always has been, considered the appropriate mode of
evidencing the title of the State under the grant. The State
conveyed by patent to the navigation company the lands so
certified as the progress of the work authorized it, according to the terms of the contract. All the lands in controversy hereohave been so certified to the State by the Secre-

Dec. 1872.]

DWILLIAMS

v.

BAKER.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

tary of the Treasury, or of the Interior, to which department, on its organization, that matter was transferred.
But in the progress of the work, and after the lands lying
between the mouth of the river and the Raccoon Fork had
been nearly or entirely exhausted, a question arose in the
land department whether the grant included any lands above
that point. This was a very important question, for, if it
did not, the whole scheme was a failure, much the larger
portion of the lands below that point having been entered by
individuals before the passage of the act, and the river being
quite as long, or longer, above the fork, and within the State,
than below.
This question was the subject of opposing decisions by at
least three secretaries and as many attorneys-general, and
occupied several years of negotiation between the State and
the department. At one period of the controversy the lands
were all certified to the State by the secretary, Mr. Stuart.
'While this controversy was going on between the State
of Iowa and the department, Congress passed the act of
1856, which will be more fully considered hereafter as the
source of title of the Cedar Rapids Company, by which there
was granted to the State of Iowa alternate sections of land
for building several railroads across the State east and west,
which roads run through the lands we have been speaking
of as in controversy under the act of 1846.
In 1857 or 1858, Mr. Litchfield, who had such title as the
navigation company could give under the State of Iowa,
brought a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States to
recover possession of a tract of these lands, in which he was
resisted by the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company, one
of the beneficiaries under the railroad grant of 1856, and
that suit coming to this court,* it was here held that the
original grant did not extend above the Raccoon Fork,
and that the acts of the Secretary of the Interior in certifying such lands to the State of Iowa were void and conferred
no title, and that Mr. Litchfield had none.
20 Howard, 66.

WILLIAMS v. BAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This decision was received as a final settlement of the
long-contested question of the extent of the grant. But it
left the State of Iowa, which had made engagements on the
faith of the lands certified to lher, in an embarrassed condition, and it destroyed the title of the navigation company to
lands of the value of hundreds of thousands of dollars, which
it had received from the State for money, labor, and material actually expended and furnished. What was also equally
to be regretted was, that many persons, purchasers for value
from the State or the navigation company, found their sup-.
posed title an invalid one.
This decision was made and published in 1860, and to
remedy the grave evils above mentioned, Congress, on the
2d day of March, 1861, passed a joint resolution in the following words:

"Resolved, That all the title which the United States still retain in the tracts of land along the Des Moines River, and above
the mouth of the Raccoon Fork thereof, which have been certified to said State improperly by the'Department of the Interior
as part of the grant by act of Congress, approved August 8th,
1846, and which is now held by bond fide purchasers under the
State of Iowa, be, and the same is hereby relinquished to the
State of Iowa."
To show still further the intention of Congress to make
good to the State as far as possible all that was claimed by
her 'under the original grant, Congress passed an act, approved July 12th, 1862, by which the grant was in express
terms extended to the northern boundary of the State, and
as somt of the lands had been sold by the United States, provision was made for the selection of an equal quantity of
lands of the government in any other part of the State.
This legislative history of the title of the State of Iowa,
and Af those to whorn she had conveyed the lands certified
to her by the Secretary of the Interior as part of the grant
of 1846, including among her grantees the Des Moines Navigation- and Railroad Company, needs no gloss or criticism
to show that the title of the State and her grantees is per-

Dec. 1872.]

WILLIAMS V. BAKER.
Opinion of the court.

feet, unless impaired or defeated by some other and extrinsic
matter which would have that effect.
Such matter is supposed to be found in the act of 1856,
already referred to, granting lands to the State of Iowa to
aid in building railroads. The argument is, that as by the
true construction of the act of 1846 none of the lands above
the Raccoon Fork were granted for the improvement of the
river, the grant of 1856 covered all the lands erroneously
certified to the State under the former, which came within
the descriptive terms of the latter grant.
This argument is undoubtedly sound so far as it goes, upon
the theory that the State of Iowa had no title in 1856 to the
lands in question, and that it was in the power of Congress
to grant the lands to railroads. And the whole argument
may be simplified and the question at issue narrowed by the
concession, that unless these lands are excepted out of the
grant of '1856 by a proviso in that act, the railroad companies did get the title of the government by that act, and by
the subsequent location of their lines of road so as to include
the lands in controversy.
That proviso is in the following language:
"And provided further, That any and all lands heretofore reserved to the United States by any act of Congress, or in-any
other mann-er by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding
in any object of internal improvement, or for any other purpose
whatsoever, be, and the same is hereby, reserved to the United
States from the operation of this act, except so far as it may be
found necessary to locate the routes of said railroads through
such reserved lands, in which case the right of way only shall be
granted, subject to the approval of the President of the United
States."
The effect of this proviso upon the title asserted in these,
suits under the railroad companies, to the lands certified to
the State of Iowa as part of the river improvemert grant,
has been passed upon by this court in three different cpses,
and in each of them it has been held that all these lands
were, at the time of the passage of the act of 1856, reserved
within the meaning of the proviso, and that therefore no

-WILLIAMS v. BAKER.
Is

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

title passed to the State or to the railroad companies. It is
not pretended that'any title has been acquired-by any other
grant, or in any other manner.
It would seem that this should close the present controversy without further argument. But counsel have not hesitated to ask a reconsideration of the principles involved in
those decisions; and the great value of the lands, the title
to which must be governed by them, as well as the character
of some of the reasons urged against their conclusiveness,
have induced us to listen attentively to the oral argument on
that subject, and to consider with deliberation and care all
that has been presented on thttt point in writing.
The first and the leading case on the subject is that of
Wolcoll v. The Des Moines Company.* It was a suit brought
by Wolcott against the Des Moines Navigation Company,
on a covenant of warranty of title, which it was alleged had
failed under the decision in the case of Litchfield v. The Dubuque and Pacific .RailroadCornpany. This court, in the Wolcott case, decided two propositions: 1st, that by reason of
the proviso in the act of 1856 the railroad companies -acqnired no title to these lands; and 2d, that by the joint resolution of 1861 the title erroneously certified to the State,
under the act of 1846, was validated and made good, and
that therefore Wolcott had no cause of action on his covenant of warranty.
It is now said that Wolcott and the navigation company
were in collusion to procure this decision, there being no real
contest between them, and that the object was to procure
from this court-a decision adverse to the title of the railroad
companies, none of whom were parties to the suit. Much
evidence is found in the record of the cases now before us
as heard in the Circuit Court to establish and to refute this
allegation. We do not here intend to pass upon it, and we
must be permitted to question both the taste and legal competency of testimony offered in an inferior court, to show
that a decision in this court was obtained by fraudulent de*

5 Wallace, 681.

Dec. 1872.]

WILUrAMS

v.

BAKER.

Opinion of the court.

vices, when that decision is not relied on as evidence of any
fact, or pleaded as an estoppel, but merely because it may.
be referred to as settling a principle of law applicable to the
case at bar.
There is in the record of that case, as it remains in this
court, sufficient answer to this objection to the opinion as an
authority on the law of this case.
The writer of this opinion, though then a member of the
court, declined to take any part in its decision because he
had been of counsel for the navigation company in a general way, and did not know how far he might have been
engaged in that case. But when it was submittd on printed
arguments on both sides, he saw at once that the legal propositions involved did affect materially the title of several railroad companies in Iowa lo the lands in question, and he
felt it to be his duty to call the attention of those of his
brethren who must decide the case to that fact. On this
suggestion an order was made that those companies be notified of the pendency of that suit, with liberty to intervene
and be heard on the question in which they were interested.
--They did intervene. The case was postponed for over a
year, and several arguments were submitted in favor of the

railroad companies by-able counsel, on "the very questiol
now ufider consideration, and an order was made inviting_all parties interested to do so. It was after a full consideration of all these arguments that the decision was made. But •
there was an additional security that the court would care-.
fully consider the question in the fact that there was sub-mitted at the same time the case of Burr v. The.D Aloaes
.Navigation and Railroad Gorapany on a similar warranty a{
title. _Mow, though both suits were decided in the Circilt-,
Court for the Southern District of New York, they were
decided by different judges, and the decisions were in conflict. This of itself would demand of the court t, careful
consideration of the point of difference, which was the yerypoilt now under consideration.

The same question precisely came up shortly afterwards
in the case of .Har.iel Reily v. TV B. Wells, and was again

WILLIAMS

v.

BAKER.

[Sup. Or.

Opipion of the court.

fully argued, and from the opinion of the court, which remains on file, though unreported, the following language is
tnken: "The reasons for this withdrawal of the lands from
public sale, or private entry, are stated at large in the opinion
of the (court in Wolcott v. The Des Moines Comptuy, and need.
not be repeated. The point of the reservation was very
material in that case, and we have seen nothing in the present one, either in the facts or in the arguments, to distinguish
it." Whatever, therefore, may have been the design of the
original parties to the suit of Wolcott v. The -Des Moines Company, it is clear that the question here involved was argued
fully by parties deeply interested on both sides, and received
the attentive consideration of the court, and as an authoritative exposition of its views is entitled to the same weight
as other well-considered cases.
We do not propose to review or add to the able and, to
us, satisfactory argument of the judge who delivered that
opinion, as well as the one in Reily v. Wells, but will notice
the only new legal proposition advanced by counsel in the
present case.
It is attempted to be shown that the proviso on which so
much depends was one which in almost the same words it
has been usual to insert in all grants of a similar character
by Congress. And it is argued that, therefore, it could'have
no special reference in the mind of Congress to the lands
certified under the act of 1846. If, however, this were conceded,'it must remain true that the effect of the proviso was
to cover such cases as came within its terms, whether known
or unknown to Congress, and the opinion in the case referred to shows how distinctly those lands did come within
the laiqfuag" and spirit of the proviso. So clear is this that
it still seems to us that Congress did know of this reservatioti, and did intend to protect it as stated in that opinion.
We, therefore, reaffirm, first, that neither the State of
Iown, nor the railroad companies, for whose benefit the
grant of 1856 was made, took any title by that act to the
lands then claimed to belong to-the Des Moines River grant
of 1846; and, second, that by the joint resolution of 1861,

Dec. 1872.] HOMESTEAD

COMPANY V. VALLEY RAILROAD.

153

Statement of the case.

and the act of 1862, the State of Iowa did receive the title
for the use of those to whom she had sold them as part of
that grant, and for such other purposes as had become proper
under that grant.
The decrees in both cases are accordingly
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS did not take part in this decision, on
account of a supposed interest in the question; and Mr.
Justice BRADLEY did not sit on the hearing.

HOMESTEAD COMPANY V. VALLEY RAILROAD.
1. In this case the court decides, for the fifth time, that neither the State of
Iowa nor any railroad company for whose benefit the act of Congress
of May 15th, 1856 (11 Stat. at Large, 9), was made, took any title to
the lands then claimed by the Des Moines Navigation and Railroad
Company, under what is known as the River Grant of August 8th, 1846
(6 Id. 77); and that the joint resolutioi of March 2d, 1861 (13 Id. 543),
and the act of July 12th, 1862 (12 Id. 25), on this subject transferred
the title from the United States and vested it in the State of Iowa for
the use of its grantees under the said River Grant.
2. Neither the railroad companies nor their grantees, as respected any lands
iranted by the said act of May 15th, 1856, or by the act of the legislatAre of Iowa, passed July 14th, 1856, were cestui que trustq of what are
called the Indemnity Lands, which were granted by the act of Congress
of July 12th, 1862; nor in view of the action of the officers of Iowa and
of the Federal government on the subject, and of the subsequent legislation of the said State and of Congress on it, were they entitled otherwise
to any portion of those lands.
& A party who has no title to lands cannot acquire one by mere payment
of taxes on them.
4. A party by paying taxes which another party ought to pay, but does not
pay, cannot make such second party his debtor by having stepped in and
paid the taxes for him, without being requested so to do.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa;
the case being thus:

On the 8th of August, 1846, Congress granted* to the

then Territory, and now State, of Iowa"

9 Stat. at Large, 77.

