Oct. 1873.]

WILSON V.

CITY BANK.

Syllabus.

Our conclusion, therefore, is that the Comet burner is no
infringement of Reichmann's reissued patent so far as that
patent is valid.
This view of the case makes it unnecessary to discuss the
question relating to the alleged invention of Collins. Whilst
his conduct and testimony and that of the other witnesses
who testify to his invention are susceptible of much criticism,
we think it proper to say that we should feel great difficulty
in disregarding it altogether. If the models presented by
him were really his invention at the time sworn to, the
Reichmann patent has no foundation whatever to stand on.
But waiving the discussion of this question we feel bound
to affirm the decree of the Circuit Court for the reasons
above stated.
DECREE AFFIRMED.*

WILSON V. CITY BANK.
1. Under a sound construction of the thirty-fifth and thirty-ninth sections of
the Bankrupt Act something more than passive non-resistance in an insolvent debtor, is necessary to invalidate a judgment and levy on his
property when the debt is due and he has no defence.
2. In such case there is no legal obligation on the debtor to file a petition in
bankruptcy to prevent the judgment and levy, and a failure to do so is
not sufficient evidence of an intent to give a preference to the judgment
creditor, or to defeat the operation of the bankrupt law.
3. Though the judgment creditor in such a case may know the insolvent
condition of the debtor, his judgment and levy upon his property are
not, therefore, void, and are no violation of the act.
4. A lien thus obtained by him will not be displaced by subsequent proceedings in bankruptcy, though commenced within four months after levy
of the execution or rendition of the judgment.
5. Veryslight circumstances, however, which tend to show the existenc3 of an
affirmative desire on the part of the bankrupt to give a preference, or to,
* This case was adjudged at the term before last, but owing to the Re-

porter's inability to procure drawings of the different burners spoken of in
the opinion, and which, as to most of them, were exhibited to the court only
by the production of the burners themselves, an earlier report has not been
practicable.

WILSON V. CITY BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
defeat the operation of the act, may, by giving color to the whole transaction, render the lien void.
6. These special circumstances must be left to decide each case as it arises.
Thipresent one held to be destitute of any such evidence, and distinguished from Buchanan v. Smith (16 Wallace, 277).

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota; the case
being thus:
The'Bankrupt Act of 1867* provides in the earlier part
of it, that if any persons residing within the jurisdiction of
the United States, shall apply by petition to the judge of the
judicial district in which he has resided, &c., settipg forth
"his inability to pay all his debts in full, his willingness to
surrender all his -estate and effects, for the benefit of his
creditors," and his desire to obtain the benefits of the act,
he may, after certain proceedings mentioned, and with certain excepted cases, obtain "a discharge from all his debts."
A subsequent part of the same act provides for proceeding
by creditors to obtain a decree of bankruptcy against theirdebtor, who has not made any such voluntary application.
After the enactment relating to the first case conaemplated-that is to say, of the debtor, himself, voluntarily applying to be decreed a bankrupt, the act in its thirty-fifth
section thus proceeds:
"SECTroN 85. That if any person, being insolvent, or in contemplation of-insolvency, within four months before the filing
of the petition by or against him, with a view to. give a preference
to any creditor or person having a claim against him, or'who is
under any liability for him, procures any part of his property to
be attached, sequestered, or seized on execution, or makes any
payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance of any
part of his property either directly or indirectly, absolutely or
conditionally, the person receiving such payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or conveyance, or to be benefited thereby,
or by such attachment, having reasonable cause to believe such
person is insolvent, and that such attachment, payment, pledge, as14 Stat. at Large, 534.

Oct. 1873.]

WILSON V. CITY BANK.

475

Statement, of the case.

signment, or conveyance is made in fraud of the provisions of this
act, the same shall be void, and the assignee may recover the
property or the value of it from the person so receiving it, or
so to be benefited.
"And if any person being insolvent or in contemplation of
insolvency or bankruptcy, within six months before the filing
of the petition by or against him, makes any payment, sale,
assignment, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of any
part of his property to any person who then has reasonable
cause to believe him to be insolvent, or to be acting in contemplation of insolvency, and that such payment, sale, assignment,
transfer, or other conveyance is made with a view to prevent
his property from coming to his assignee in bankruptcy, or to
prevent the same being distributed under this act, or to defeat
the object of, or in any way impair, hinder, impede, or delay'
the operfition and effect of, or to evade any of the provisions of
this act, the sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance shall be
void, and the assignee inay recover the property, or the value
thereof as assets of the bankrupt.
"And if such sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance is not
made in the usual and ordinary course of business of the debtor,
the fact shall be primd facie evidence of fraud."
The 'thirty-ninth section, which relates to " involuntary
bankruptcy," enacts thus:
"SEoTioN 39. That any person residing and owing debts as

aforesaid who, after the passage of this act, shall depart from
the State, district, or Territory of which he is an inhabitant,
with intent to defraud his creditors, or being absent shall, with
such intent, remain absent; o shall conceal himself to avoid
the service of legal process, in any action for the recovery of a
debt or demand provable under this act, on. shall conceal or remove any of his property to avoid its being attached, taken or
sequestered on legal process, oR shall make any assignment, gift,
sale, conveyance, or transfer of his estate, property, rights or
credits, either within the United States or elsewhere, with intent to delay, defraud, or hinder his creditors, oR who has been
arrested and held in custody under or by virtue of mesne process
or execution, issued out of any court of any State, district, or
Territory, within which such debtor resides or has property,
founded upon a demand in its nature provable against a bank-

WILSON V. CITY BANIK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
rupt's estate under this act, and for a sum exceeding $100, and
such process is remaining in force and not discharged by payment or in any other manner provided by the law of such State,
district, or Territory applicable thereto, for a period of seven
days; or has been actually imprisoned for more than seven days
in a civil action founded on contract for the sum of $100 or upwards; on who, being bankrupt or insolvent, or in contemplation
of bankruptcy or insolvency, shall make any payment, gift,
grant, sale, conveyance or transfer of money or other property,
estate, rights or credits, or give any warrant to confess judgment; or procure or suffer his property to be taken on legal process, with intent to give a preference to one or more of his creditors,
or to any person or persons who are or may be liable.for him as
indorsers, bail, sureties, or otherwise, or with the intent, by
such disposition of his property, to defeat or delay the operation
of this act; oR who, being a banker, merchant or trader, has
fraudulently stopped or suspended, and not resumed payment
of his commercial paper within a period of fourteen days, shall
be deemed to have committed an act of bankruptcy, and, subject
to the conditions hereinafter prescribed, shall be adjudged a
bankrupt on the petition of one or more of his creditors, the
aggregate of whose debts-provable under this act amount to at
least $250, provided such petition is brought within six .months
after the act of bankruptcy shall have been committed.
"And if such person shall be adjudged a bankrupt, the assignee may recover back the money or other property so paid,
conveyed, sold, assigned or transferred contrary to this act, provided the person receiving such payment or conveyance had
reasonable cause to believe that a fraud on this act was intended,
or that the debtor was insolvent. And such creditor shall not be
allowed to prove his debt in bankruptcy."
These enactments'being in force, one Wilson, assignee in
bankruptcy of the firm of Vanderhoof Brothers, lately merchants at the city of St. Paul, filed a bill against the City
Bank of the said city to determine which of the parties,
complainant or defendant, was entitlet'to the stock of goods
of the bankrupts, or the proceeds thereof. The factsof the
case, about which there was no dispute, were thus found by
the court:

Oct. 1873.]

WILSON V. CITY BANK.
Statement of the case.

"cOn the 26th of February, 1870, judgment by default was
rendered by one of the District Courts of the State of Minnesota
in favor of the bank against Yanderhoof Brothers for the sum
ol $2130, On the same day execution was issued, and the
sheriff immediately made a levy upon the whole stock of goods
of the debtors, which was sold by him for $2385, which is now
in the hands of the bankrupt court to await the determination
of this suit. The suit by the bank was brought on promissory
notes, commercial paper made by the debtors Yanderhoof
Brothers to the City Bank of St. Paul, one of which notes was
more than fourteen days past due when suit was brought thereon
by the bank.
"After the levy of the said execution and before the sale by
the sheriff, Yanderhoof Brothers were adjudicated bankrupts 6n
the petition of creditors filed against them after judgment bad
been obtained and levy made under the execution. The Van.
derhoofs had no defence to the notes upon which the bank had
sued them, and put in no defence. They had no property except their said stock in trade, Which, at cost prices, was about
equal to the amount of tleir liabilities.
"The debtors Vanderhoof Brothers were insolvent when said
suit was brought against them by the bank, and the bank had
then reasonable cause to believe it, ana knew that they had
committed an act of bankruptcy, and that they had no property but their said stock in trade. The Vanderhoofs gave no
notice to any of their creditors of the suit commenced against
them by the bank, and having no defence, did not defend it nor
go into voluntary bankruptcy, nor otherwise make any effort
to prevent the judgment b.eing obtained or the levy of the execution.""
On this case the following questions arose at the trial, in
relation to which the judges were opposed in opinion:
"1st. Whether or not an intent on the part of said debtors,
Vanderhoof Brothers, to suffer'their property to be taken on
legal process, to wit, the said execution, with intent to give a
preference to said bank, or with intent thereby to defeat or delay the operation of the Bankrupt Act, can be inferred from the
foregoing facts?
"2d. Whether, under said facts, the said bank in obtaining

478

WILSON V. CITY BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the assignee.
said judgment and making the said levy bad reasonable cause
to believe that a fraud on the Bankrupt Act was intended?
"3d. Whether, under said facts, the bank obtained by the
levy of its execution a valid lien on the said goods as against
the assignee in bankruptcy ?"
The questions were accordingly certified here for decision.
"Mr. E. G. Rogers, for the assignee in bankruptcy:
I. Being insolvent, the Vanderhoofs suffered their entire
stock of goods to be seized on execution on the judgment
by default, obtained against them by the bank, with intent
to give a preference to the bnk over their other creditors,
and in fraud of the thirty-fifth and thirty-ninth sections of
the Bankrupt Act.
(1.) They suffered their property to be seized on execution.*
(2.) This was a transfer of the property, within the meaning of the thirty-fifth and thirty-ninth sections of the act.t
The bank stands in no better position than if the Vanderhoofs had paid the debt in money or in gbods.$
(3.) It was a transfer out of the usual and ordinary course
of Vanderhoof Brothers' busiiiess, and, therefore; ptimafacie
fraudulent.
(4.) The necessary consequence of Vanderhoof Brothers
suffering their entire stock in trade, and their entire property to be levied on, was to break up their business and put
it out of their power to pay their other creditors. It appropriated their whole property to the payment of a single
creditor, putting the property into the hands of that creditor,
* In re Dibblee, 2 Bankrupt Register, 185-187.
t In re Black & Secor, 1 Bankruptcy Register, 81; Wilson v. Brinkman,
2 Id. 149; In re Wright, Ib. 155; Fitch et al. v. D.cGie, Ib. 164.
$ Shawhan v. Wherritt, 7 Howard, 644; Smith v. Buchanan, 4 Bankrupt
Register, 134. [The second cited case which came up on appeal to this court,
and in which the decree of the court below was affirmed (see .Buchandn v.
Smith, 16 Wallace, 277), -was not cited in its hppellpte form, by the learned
counsel, the volume in wh~ich the report is contained not having been at the
time published.-REP.] Wilson v. City Bank, 5 Id. 274, opinion of ]Dil-

Ion, J.

Oct. 1873.]

WILSON V.

'Ci " BANK.

479

Argument.for the assignee

enabling him to pay himself in full, without regard to whether other creditors were paid or not, and thereby necessarily gave a preference to that creditor.
It was an act of bankruptcy, and under the circumstances
it was almost inevitable that the other and unpreferred
creditors should proceed against-Vanderhoof Brothers in
bankruptcy (as has actually been the c~se), in which event
the effect of suffering the levy is to impede, hinder, and delay the operation of the Bankr~upt Act.
Vanderhoof Brothers must be presumed to have intended
these natural and legal consequences of their conduct; they
might have prevented them by filing their petition in voluntary bankruptcy. N ot having done so, but having suffered
a creditor to obtain a preference Which they might have prevented, they must be presumed to have intended to give
such preference.*
II. The bank having knowledge of the Vanderhoofs' acts
of bankruptcy, and having also at least reasonable cause to
believe the firm insolvent, had also reasonable cause to believe that a fraud upon the Bankrupt Act was intended by
them, and in fact did themselves intend to obtain a preference in fraud of the act.

1. It follows as a necessary conclusion that if the bank
had reasonable cause to believe the Vanderhoofs insolvent,
"they had reason to believe that the Vanderhoof Brothers
in neglecting to make payment of their debts, in submitting
to suit and in neglecting to take the steps contemplated by
the Bankrupt Act for the purpose, and equal benefit of alt
their creditors according to the plain intent and purport of
.the law, were acting in fraud of the law itself."t
Denny v. Dana, 2 Cushing, 160; Beals v. Clark, 13 Gray, 18; In re
Drummond, 1 Bankrupt Register, 10; In re Black & Seeor, lb. 81 ; In re
Craft, lb. 89; In re Sutherland, Ib. 140; Foster v. Hackley, 2 Id. 131; In
re Dibblee, lb. 185; In re Wells, 3 Id. 95; In re Smith, lb. 98; In re Clark
& Bininger, lb. 99; S. C., on appeal, 4 Id. 77; Campbell v. The Traders'
Bank et al., 3 Id. 124; Driggs v. Moore, lb. 149; In re Bloss, 4 Id. 37;
Martin v. Toof, 4 Id. 158.
t Wilson v. City Bank, 5 Bankrupt Register, 274, opinion of Dillon, J.;
Smith v. Buchanan et al., 4 Id. 134.

WILSON V. CITY BANK.

Esnp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

They had reason to believe that if they seized all the Vanderboof goods on execution, the bank would obtain a preference over their other creditors, and thereby a fraud on
the act would be perpetrated. They as well as the Vanderhoofs must be presumed to have intended the consequences
of their conduct, and these consequences were to give the
bank a preference, and to prevent the property from being
distributed equally among all Vanderhoof Brothers'-creditors under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
2. The transfer effected by the levy being out of the usual
and ordinary course of Vanderhoof Brothers' business, was
primdfacie evidence to the bank of fraud.
III. The bank, after acts of bankruptcy 'of the Vanderhoofs, of which it had full knowledge, and with reasonable
cause to believe the Vanderhoofs insolvent, could not by
proceeding in a State court obtain a valid lien and seize the
property of the bankrupts to the exclusion of their other
creditors. This is said by the Supreme Court of the United
States, in Shawhan v. Wherrilt,* to be "the chief and importaut question involved" in that case, and it was there held
that such a proceeding on the part of the creditor was a
fraud upon the Bankrupt Act, and therefore void.
Mr. Harvey Officer, contra, citing Wright v. illey,t as in
point, and other cases.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinibn of the court.
The questions presented to this court by the certificate of
division require, for a satisfactory answev, a carefu.l consideration and construction of sections fhirty-five and thirtynine -of the Bankrupt law, withb reference to .the general
spirit and purpose of that law. .6) looking to these the first
and most imuortant consideration which demands our attention is the discrimination made by the act between the pases
of voluntary and involuntary bankruptcy. In both classes
of cases undoubtedly the primary object is to secure a just
distribution of the bankrupt's property among his creditors,
*7

Howard, 627, 644, 645.

f

Bankrupt :Register, 197.

Oct. 1873.]

WILSON V.

CITY BANK.

Opinion of the court.

and in both the secondary object is the release of the bankrupt from the obligation to pay the debts of those creditors.
But in case of voluntary bankruptcy the aid of the law is
invoked by the bankrupt himself, with the purpose of being
discharged from his debts as his principal motive, and in the
other the movement is made by his creditors with the purpose of securing the appropriation of his property to their
payment, the discharge being with them a matter'of no
weight and often contested.
There is a corresponding difference in the facts on which
the action of this court can be invoked in these different
classes of bankruptcy. When the party himself seeks the
aid of the court the averment lie is required to make is a
very simple one, namely, that "lie is unable to pay all his
debts in full, and is willing to surrender all his estate and
effects for the benefit of his creditors, and desires ta obtain
the benefit of the act," that is, to be discharged from the
claims of his creditors. On filing a petition containing this
request he is declared by the court a bankrupt. The allegation cannot be traversed, nor is any issue or inquiry as to
its truth permitted. The- administration of his effects proceeds thereafter under the direction of the court, and may
end in paying all his debts with a surplus to be returned to
the bankrupt, or the result may be nothing for the creditors,
and the unconditional release of the bankrupt.
But while the debtor may on this*broad basis call on the
court to administer his estate, the creditor who desires to do
the same thing is limited to a few facts or circumstances,
the existence of which are essential to his right to appeal to
the court. And when any one of these facts is set forth in
a petition to the court by the creditor, the truth of the allegation may be denied by the debtor, and on the issue thus
found, he may demand the verdict of a jury.
The reason for this wide difference in the proceedings in
the two cases is-obvious enough. When a man is himself
willing to refer his embarrassed condition to the proper
court with a full surrender of all his property, no harm can
come to any one but himself, and there can. be no solid objecVOL. XVII.

31

482

WILSON V.

OiTY BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion to the course he pursues. But when a person claims
to take from another all control of his property, to arrest
him in the exercise of his occupation, and to* impair his
standing as a business man, in short to place him in a position which may ruin him in tho midst of a prosperous
career, the precise circumstances or facts 6n which be is
authorized-to. do, this, should not only be well defined in the
la'w, but clearly established in the cburt.
. It is.
the thihty-ninth section of the Bankrupt Act which
lays down in nine or ten subdivisions the facts and circumstances which give a man's creditors the right to have him
decltared a bankrupt, and his property administered in a
banikruptcy court. One.of them is the case of a person who
being bankrupt or insolvent, or'in contemplation of insolVency, shall make any paymentj gift, grant, sale, conveyance, or transfer of money or other property, estate, rights,
or credits,- or give any warrant to confess judgment or pieocure or suffer his property to be taken on legal process with
intent to give'a preference to one or more of his creditors,
or to any person or persons who may be liable for him as
indorsers, bail sureties, or otherwise, or with intent by such
disposition of his property to defeat or delay the operation
of the act. And the same section declares that if such person shall be adjudged a bankrupt, the assignee may recover
back the money or property so paid, conveyed, sold, assigned, or transferred, contrary to the act; provided, the
person receiving such payment or conveyance, had reasonable cause to believe tht'a fraud on the Bankrupt Act wa8
intended, or that the debti. was insolvent.
The case before us is one of involuntary bankriptcy; but
there is no question here whether the -party was rightfully
,declared a bainkrupt. The statement of facts shows-that the
,debtors were insolvent when the bank commenced its pro.ceedings in the State court, and that the bank'had then reasonable cause to believe they were insolvent, and knew that
they had committed an act of bankruptcy, to wit,'had permitted one of their notes to go unpaid more than fdurtee~n
,days .after it was due.

Oct. 1873.]

WILSON: V. CITY BANK.
Opinion of the court.

It is maintained that under these circumstances the baikrupt "suffered his property to be taken on legal process
with intent to give a preference to the bank, and to defeat
or delay the operation of the act." Undoubtedly, the facts
stated bring the bank within the proviso, as to knowledge
of the debtor's insolvency; and if the debtor suffered his
property to be taken within the meaning of the statute, with:
intent to defeat or delay the operation of the act, then the
assignee should recover the property. So that this sufferance
and this intent on the part of the bankrupt are the matters
to be decided. The first and principal question on which
the judges became divided is, whether such intent is to be
inferred from the facts stated.
The thirty-fifth section of the act, which is designed to
prevent fraudulent preferences of a person in contemplation
of insolvency or bankruptcy, declares that any attachment
or seizure under execution of such person's property, procured by him with a view to give such a preference, shall be
void if the act be done within four months preceding the
Pling of the petition in bankruptcy by or against him.
Though the main purpose of the thirty-ninth section is to
define acts of flie trader which make him a bankrupt, and
that of the thirty-fifth is to prevent preferences by an insolvent debtor in view of bankruptcy, both of them have the
common purpose of making such preferences void, and enabling the assignee of the bankrupt to recover the property;
and both of them make this to depend on the intent with
which the act was done by the bankrupt, and the knowledge
of the bankrupt's insolvent condition by the other party to
the transaction. Both of them describe, substantially, the
same acts of payment, transfer, or seizure of property so declared void. It is, therefore, very strongly to be inferred
that the act of sffering the debtor's property to be taken on.
legal process in section thirty-nine, is precisely the same as.
procuring it to be attached or seized on execution in section
thirty-five. Indeed, the words procure and suffer are both
used in section thirty-nine.
What, then, is the true meaning of that phrase in the act?.

484

WILsoN v. CITY BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In both cases it must be accompanied with an intent. In section thirty-five it is to give a preference to a creditor; in section thirty-nine it must be to give a preference to a creditor,
or to defeat or delay the operation of the Bankrupt Act. In
both there must be the positive purpose of doing an act forbidden by that statute, and the thing described must be done
in the promotion of this unlawful purpose.
The facts of the case before us do not show any positive
or affirmative act of the debtors from which such intent may
be inferred. Through the whole of the legal proceedings
against them they remained perfectly passive. They owed
a debt which they were unable to pay when it became due.
The creditor sued them and recovered judgment, and levied
execution on their property. They afforded him no facilities to do this, and they interposed no hindrance. It is not
pretended that any positive evidence exists of a wish or design on their part to give this creditor a preference, or oppose or delay the operation of the Bankrupt Act.
There is nothing morally wrong in their course in this
matter. They were sued for a just debt. They had no defence to it, and they made none. To have made an effort
by dilatory or false pleas to delay a judgment in the State
court would have been a moral wrong and a fraud upon the
due administration of the law. There was no obligation on
them to do this, either in law or in ethics. Any other creditor whose debt was due could have sued as well as this one,
and any of them could have instituted compulsory bankrupt
proceedings. The debtor neither hindered nor facilitated
any one of them. How is it possible from this to infer,
logically, an actual purpose to prefer one creditor to another, or to hinder or delay the operation of the Bankrupt
Act?
It is said, however, that such an intent is a legal inference
from such inaction by the debtor, necessary to the successful
operation of the Bankrupt law; that the grand feature of
that law is to secure equality of distribution among creditors
in all cases of insolvency; and that, to secure this, it is the
legal duty of the insolvent, when sued by one creditor in an

Oct. 1873.']

WILSON V. OiTY BANK.
Opinion of the court.

ordinary proceeding likely to end in judgment and seizure
of property, to file himself a petition of voluntary bankruptcy, and that this duty is one to be inferred from the
spirit, of the law, and is essential to its successful operation.
The argument is not without force, and has received the
assent of a large number of the district judges, to whom the
administration of the Bankrupt law is more immediately
confided.
We are, nevertheless, not satisfied of its soundness.
We have already said that there is no moral obligation on
the part of the insolvent to do this, unless the statute requires it, and then only because it is a duty imposed by the
law. It is equally clear that there is no such duty imposed
by that act in express terms. It is, therefore, an argument
solely of implication. This implication is said to arise from
the supposed purpose of the statute to secure equality of
distribution in all cases of insolvency, and to make the argument complete, it is further necessary to hold that this can
only be done in bankruptcy proceedings under that statute.
Does the Rtatute justify so broad a proposition ? Does it in
effect forbid all proceedings to collect debts in cases of insolvency, in other courts, and in all other modes than by
bankruptcy ? We do not think that its purpose of securing
equality of distribution is designed to be carried so far.
As before remarked, the voluntary clause is wholly voluntary. No intimation is given. that the bankrupt must file a
petition under any circumstances. While his night to do so
is without any other limit than his own sworn averment
that he is unable to pay all his debts, there is not a word
from which we can infer any legal obligation on him to do
so. Such an obligation would take from the right the character of a privilege, and confer on it that of a burdensome
and, often, ruinous duty.
It is, in its essence, involuntary bankruptcy. But the initiation in this kind of bankruptcy is, by the statute, given
to the creditor, and is not imposed on the debtor. And it
is only given to the creditor in a limited class of cases. The
argument we are combating goes upon the hypothesis that

WILSON V. CITY BARK.

[Sup., Ct.

Opinion of the court.

there is another class given to the creditor by inference,
namely, where the debtorought himself to go into court as
a bankrupt and-fails to do it. We do not see the sojudness
of this implication from anything in the stathte.
We do not construe the act as intended to cover all cases
of insolvency, to the exclusion of other judicial proceedings.
It is very libera:l in the classes of insolvents which it d6es
include, and needs no extension in this direction by implication. But it still leaves, in a great majority of cases, parties
who are really insolvent, to the chances that their enevgy,
care, and prudence in business may enable them finally to
recover without disastrous failure or positive bankrupty.
All experience shows both the wisdom and justice of this
policy.
Many fiid themselves with ample means, good credit,
*large business, technically insolvent; that is, unable to meet
their current obligations as fast as they mature. But by
forbearauce of creditors, by meeting only such debts as are
pressed, and even by the submission of some of their property to be seized on execution, they are finally able to pay
all, and to save their commercial character and much of
their p.roperty. If creditors are not satisfied with this, and
the parties have committed an act of bankruptcy, any creditor can institute proceedings in a bankrupt court. But
until ibis is 'done, their honest struggle to meet their debts
and'to avoid the breaking up of all their business is not, of
itself, to be construed into an act of bankruptcy., or a fraud
upon the act.
* It is also argued, that inasmuch as to lay by and permit
one creditor to obtain judgment and levy on property necessarily gives that creditor a preference, the debtor must be
supposed to intend that which he knows will follow.
The general legal proposition is true, that where a person
does a positive act, the consequences of which he knows beforehand, that he must be held to intend those consequences.
But it cannot be inferred that a man intends, in the sense
of desiring, promoting, or procuring it, a result of other persons' acts, when he contributes nothing to-their success or

Oct. 1873.']

WILSON V. CITY BANK.
Opinion of the court.

completion, and is under no legal or moral obligation to
hinder or prevent them.
Argument confirmiatory of these views may be seen in the
fact that all the other acts or modes of preference of creditors
found in both the sections we have mentioned, in direct context with the one uhder consideration, are of a positive and
affirmative character, and are evidences of an active desire
or wish to prefer one creditor to others. Why, then, should
a passive indifference and inaction, where no action is required by positive law or good morals, be construed into
such a preference as the law forbids?
The coinstruqtion thus contended for is, in our opinion,
not justified by the w6rds of either of the sections referred
to, and can only b sustained by imputing to the general
scope of the Bankrupt Act a harsh and illiberal purpose, at
variance with its true spirit and with the policy which
prompted its enactment.
Undoubtedly very slight evidence of an affirmative character of the existence of a desire to prefer one creditor, or
of acts done with a view to secure such preference, might
be sufficient to invalidate the whole transaction. Such evidence might be sufficient to leave the matter to a jury, or to
support a decree, because the known existence of a motive
to prefer or to defraud the Bankrupt Act would color acts or
decisions otherwise of no significance. These cases must
rest on their own circumstances. But the case before us is
destitute of any evidence of the existence of such a motive,
unless it is to be imputed as a conclusion of law from facts
which we do not think raise such an implication.
These latter considerations serve to distinguish the present
case fr6m that of Buchananv. Srgilh,*.decided at the last term,
and which may seem to conflict, in soxne of the expressions
used in thiht opinion, with those found in this. That was a
bill in chancery involving several distinct issues of fact, on
which much and conflicting testimony was given, and the
contern-ion was mainly as to what was established by the
* 16 Wallace, 277.

WILSON V. CITY BANK.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the 6ourt.

evidence. There was satisfactory proof that the creditor,
before pursuing his remedy in the State court, had urgently
sought to secure a preference by obtaining from the debtor
a transfer of certain policies of insurance on which a loss
was due. The case was also complicated by an assignment
made by the debtor, under which the assignee took posses.
sion before the creditor procured his judgment in the State
court. That case was well decided on the evidence before
the court. But in the case now before us the questions we
have discussed are presented nakedly and without confusion,
by facts found by the court and undisputed, and we have
been compelled, on careful consideration of the Bankrupt
Act, to the following conclusions:
1. That something more than passive non-resistance of an
insolvent debtor to regular judicial proceedings, in which a
judgment and levy on his property are obtained, when the
debt is due and he is without just defence to the action, is
necessary to show a preference of a creditor, or a purpose to
defeat or delay the operation of the Bankrupt Act.
2. That the fact that the debtor under such circumstances
does not file a petition in bankruptcy is not sufficient evidence of such preference or of intent to defeat the operation
of the act.
3. That, though the judgment creditor in such case may
know the insolvent condition of the debtor, his levy and
seizure are not void under the circumstances, nor any violation of the Bankrupt law.
4. That a lien thus obtained by him will not be displaced
by subsequent proceedings in bankruptcy igainst the d~btor,
though within four months of the filing of the petition.
These propositions require the questions certified to us to
be answered as follows: The first and second in the NEGATIVE,

and the third in the

AFFIRMATIVE.

