DECISIONS
IN

TH

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1872, AND OCTOBER TERM, 1873.

CORDOVA V. HOOD.
1. "Where a deed of land shows on its face that the consideration is yet "1to
be paid," a second purchaser (that is to say, a put-chaser from the
vendee), who has notice of the deed, takes"the land in those States (of
which Texas is one) where the English chancery doctrine of a vendor's
lien prevails, subject to the vendor's lien, unless such lien has been in
some way waived.
2. In the case of such a deed it is the duty of the new purchaser to inquire;
and where inquiry is a duty, the party bound to make inquiry is affected
with all the knowledge which he would have got had he inquired.
3. Though it is true that taking a note with a surety from the vendee is
generally evidence of an intention to rely exclusively upon the personal
security taken, and therefore, presumptively, is an abandonment or
waiver of a lien, yet this raises only a presuniption, and as a presumption only it may be rebutted by evidence that such was not the intention
of the parties.
4. The testimony of the vendor received to rebut, and being positive, held
sufficient to do so.
5. Where a vendor already has a lien, evidenced by a note for the payment
of all and every part of the purchase-money so long as it remains unpaid, the lien for any purchase-money afterwards still unpaid is not lost
by the fact of his receiving part payment of the note before its maturity,
taking a new note payable at the same time and in the same way and
place as the original note, and a destruction of such original one.
6. By the laws of Texas (which in a matter connected with real estate was
respe6ted by this court in a suit coming from Texas) an assignment of a
note given for the purchase-money of real estate carries the vendor's
lien.

from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Texas, on a decree dismissing a bill filed to enforce a
vendor's lien. The case was thus:
On the 4th of March, 1859, B. G. Shields, by instrument of
(1 )
1
VOL. XVIL
APPEAL

CORDOVA V. HOOD.

[sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

writing, "bargainped and sold to G. M. Hood" (both parties.
being of Texas) a tract of land in that State, described, "for
the sum of $27,000, to be paid by the said Hood as follows."
Certain drafts and notes to be given. by Hood were then
specified; among thbe notes one for $9000, payable at the
Uiuion' Baink, New Orleans, April, 9th, 1862.'

The deed

ended with a covenant that "on the completion of the payments
before mentioned" Shields would warrant and defend the
premises to Hood, his heirs and assigns, against all persons
lawfully claiming or to claim them. In point of fact, when
the papers came to be executed, the notes were signed notonly by Hood, the purchaser, but also by his son,- G. M.
Hood, Jr. On the 1st of April, 1862, before the note that
becate due on the 9th matured, Hood, Sr., called on Shields
-and stited to him thit he had some surplus cash with which
he desired to pay a part of itoff Shields accordingly took
his money, and a new note was executed for the balance ;
the old note being given up' The new note, like the old
one had been, was made payable April 9th, ' i862, and at the
Union Bank, New .Orleans. This new note Shields afterwards (in the autumn of 1862): assigned to one Bartlett.
In May, 1863, Hood sold the land to two persois, named

Scroggin nd Hanna; and Bartlett having become bankrupt,
his assignee in bankruptcy, one Cordova, now -iled a bill
in The court below against both the Hoods, Scroggin, and
Hanna, to enforce the lien. The bill did not allege that the
6omplainant had exhausted his r'emedy at law against Hood,
the vendee of the land, who, or whose estate in point of fact,
appeared to be'solvent.
:The Hoods let a decree pass pro confesso. Scroggin and
Hanna set up in answer, or in Argument, that all vendor's
lien had been waived by taking Hood, Jr., as a party, who,
not being interested, was a surety on the notes; that even
if any lien had existed under or by virtue of the note of
$9000,.such lieu was waived when that note was paid, as
in law it was completely when it was .surrendered; the
tran'saction having been not a credit on an old debt, of so
much cash paid, but an acceptance of cash and of a new

-

Dec. 1872.]

CORDOVA

V. HOOD.

Statement of the case.

debt, accompanied by an annihilation and extinction of the
old one; that, at any rate, however all this might be as between Shields and Hood, they, Scroggin and Hanna, were
purchasers, bond fide and without notice of any lien; that,
fhrther, if Shields, the vendor, might himself have enforced
a lien against the land, had he continued to hold the note'
and debt, the right of enforcement was a right personal to
him, and that it did not pass to Bartlett, his assignee, and
as little certainly to Cordova, assignee in a second remove.
Shields, who was examined, thus testified:
"The recital in the instrument executed to -. M. Hood, Sr.,
on the 4th of March, 1850, corresponds with the facts, except
that the name of G. M. Hood; Jr., was also signed to the notes.
The land was sold to Mr. Hood, Sr., and his responsibility,
coupled with a vendor's lien, secured by the regular form and
terms of the instrument, was deemed by me a sufficient security,
Mr. Hood, Jr., accompanied his father to my house, and was
represented by his father to be his agent. I do not remember
why it was that Mr. Hood, Jr.'s, name was signed to the notes.
The deed or instrument was prepared, to the best of my recollection, before the notes, and in the absence of Mr. Hood; the
notes, after the arrival of Mr. Hood and son. Tjheir joint signatures was probably a suggestion of the moment and did not
alter or take from the facts recited in the instrument. Mr.
Hood, Sr., did execute'the notes to secure the payment of the
amounts, and at the time, and for the considerations mentioned in the deed. The additional signature of Hood, Jr.,
was simply that much more; a gratuity not called for by nor
altering the contract. ir. Hood, Sr., was represented, by those
who knew him in Eastern Texas, to be a wealthy man. His
son was considered responsible and ti'ustworthy as far as I
know. The reason for not taking a mortgage is shown by theterms of the instrument, by which the venuor's lien is plainly
retained and held. 'I have no recollection of who was present
when the terms of the instrument securing the vendor's lien
were discussed, if discussed at all. There never was any question between us on that point; it being considered i of course,
that my obligation of warranty in the instrument iyould only
be made perfect or complete upon the payment of the whole
amount of the purchase-money.

CORDOVA V. HOOD.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

"The payment of.a portion of the note of $9000 in advance,'
and taking another note, was simply a matter of convenience,
and not intended, in any manner, or to any extent whatever,
to impair or affect the lien retained by the terms of the instrument to secure the payment of the whole amount of the purchase-money. It was positively and unequivocally so stipulated
and agreed between us at the time of the excution of the said
note of $5015; so stated and understood, without question, between us.
"The note was traded to Bartlett, with the statement from
me that it was secured by a vendor's lien on the land sold -to
Hood; Sr. I will further state that I believed at the time that
Mr. Bartlett had special reference to'that fact in the transaction,
and that he felt that the note of G. M. Hood, Sr., to secure the
remainder of the last payment for the land, with the right of
the vendor's lien upon said land, was safer foi him (Bartlett)
than cotton, which he gaye me for it; then liable at any moment
to impressment.
"Both Hanna and Scroggin spoke to me, some time sinceperhaps 1868 or 1869-in reference to the terms of sale by me
to Hood. I gave them such information as my recollection of
the facts warranted. One of them, and perhaps both, stated
that they had been informed by Mr. Hood that he had paid the
whole amount of the purchase-money; in reply to which I gave
them true information, as nearly as I could. At the time there
was more than $9000 due."
Bartlett was also examined.

He said:

"When Shields sold the note to me, he told me distinctly and
positively that it was secuied by a lien on the land. This was
perfectly understood between us. I relied on this lien when I
purchased it."
Scroggin and Hanna were also both examiiied. They testified that Hood, Sr., was one of the wealfhy men in Texas;
that they supposed that the land haid been sold to him onhis personal responsibility; that with his own lips he'declared to them that every dollar was paid on the land; that
they had never heard of any lien. It appeareh, however, on
cross-examination that they had seen the record of the deed
of March 4th, 1859, from Shields to Hood, before purchasing

Dec. 1872.]

CORDOVA V. H:OOD.

Opinion of the court.

from Hood, and had had it. examined by their professional
adviser for their own "protection."
The court below confirmed the decree so far as 'the bill
was confessed, but dismissed it as against Scroggin and
IHanna. From that decree Cordova took this.appeal.
Messrs. Conway Robinson, TV. G. Hale, and B. 2.Merrick,
for the appellants; 21r. G. F. .Moore, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees must be held to have had notice of whatever equities were revealed in the line of their title. They
claim through a conveyance from Hood, Sr., who had purchased from Shields in 1859, and the deed from Shields
plainly exhibited the fact that the purchase-money reinained to be paid. It contained not even a receipt for
the consideration of the sale. In form it was a deed of
bargain and sale, but there was not, enough in it to show
that the use was executed in the vendee. On the contrary,
it recites a consideration "to be paid" in instalments at'subsequent dates, for which a draft and notes were given. That
the vendor, by such a deed, had a lien for the unpaid purchase-money, as against the vendee and those holding under
him with notice, unless the lien was waived, is the recog,
.nized doctrine of English chancery, and Texas is one of the
States in which the doctrine has been adopted.* It is a
general principle that a vendor of landthough he has made
an absolute conveyance by deed, and though the consideration is in the instrument expressed to be paid, has an equitable lien for the unpaid purchase-money, unless there has
been an express or an implied waiver of it. And this lien
will be enforced in equity against the vendee and all persons holding under him,.except bonefide purchasers, without
notice.t With greater reason, it would seem, should such
a lien exist and be enforced when, as in this case, the deed,
Osborn v. Cummings, 4 Texas, 13; Neel v. Prickett, 12 Id. 138; Bris,oe v. Bronaugh, 1 Id. 326.
t Mackreth v. Symmons, 15 Vesey, 329.

CORDOVA V. HdOD.

I

[Sn*P. i

Opinion of the court.

instead 'of containing a receipt for the purchase-money, expressly states that it remahis unpaid.
The important question to be consideredtherefore, is whether the lien 'has been waived. That there was no express
waiver by Shields' at the time when his deed to Hood was
made and delivered, or at any subsequent time, is not only
not proved, but is plainly disproved. Shields himself has
estified that the'lien was never released by him, and that
when the note of his vendee for $5015 was. taken for the unpaid portion of the larger note given at the time of the sale,
it'was with tbe distinct understanding between lim alnd Hood
that the.payment then made, and the execution of the note
for the balance, made no differehce whatever respecting the
vendor's lien to secure the balance, but,that
the land
should continue just as liable to secure payment of said
.balance as before."
It remains then to inquire whether there was any im lied
waiver of a ,lien. When the deed was, made the vendor
took for the purchase-money promissory notes signed not
only by Hood, the vendee, but by Hood, Jr., his son. Had
the notes been signed by the vendee alone no implication of
an intent to waive a vendor's lien cbuld have arisen. It is
everywhere ruled that where such a lien isrecognized at dll
it is not affbeted by the vendor's taking the bond or bill
single of the vendee, or his negotiable promissory pote, or
his check, if not presented or if unpaid, or any instrument
involving merely his personal liability.* It is true that,
.taking a note or a bond from tlfe vendee with a, surety, has
generally been held evidence of an intention to rely exclusively upon the personal security taken, and therefore, presumptively, to be an abandonment or waiver of a lien, fBut
this raises only a presumption, open to rebuttal by evidence
that such was not the intention of the parties.t And we
* See numerous cases collected in .note 1, Leading Cases in Equity,- Hare.
& Wallace, 235, under the case of Mackreth v. Symmons. t Campbell v. Baldwin, 2 Humphreys, 248, 258; Marshall v. Christmas,
3 Id. 616; Mims v. Railroad Co., 3 Kelley, 838; Griffin v. Blanchar, 17
California, 70; Parker v. Sewell, 24 Texas; 238; Dibblee v. Mitchell, 15
Indiana, 435.

Dec. 1872.]

CORDOVA

v.

H OOD.

Opinion of the court.

think the evidence in this case clearly shows that neither
party to the deed understood that the vendor intended to
take the note of Hood, Sr., and Hood, Jr., as a substitute
for the lien. The only evidence we have bearing directly
upon the subject is in the testimony of Shields. To some
extent he does undoubtedly confound his own impressions
with what occurred when the notes were given. But we
think it may fairly be deduced from his statements that
there was no intention then to waive the lieu, which the
law implied.from the terms of the deed. He is unable to
state why the son's name was signed in conjunction with
the father's, but he is positive that the additional signature
was simply a gratuity not called for by the contract nor
altering it. He states also there never was any question between himself and his vendee respecting a vendor's lien,
adding, it being considered, of course, that his obligation of
warranty in the deed would only be made perfect or complete upon the payment of the whole amount of the purchase-money. And that taking the notes as they were taken
was not intended as a waiver of a vendor's lien, or at least
that it was not understood by the vendee to be such a waiver,
is placed beyond doubt by what took place afterwards, on
the 1st of April, 1860. There the renewed note was given
for a part of the original purchase-money, and it "was positively and unequivocally stipulated and agreed by the vendor
and vendee" that the original lien was retained, that the
land should continue liable as before. How could this be,
if the lien had been waived ? Waiver is a thing of intention
As well as of action, and it is impossible to believe, in view
of this testimony, there was an intention to give up the
security of the land. Were this a bill to enforce the lien
against the lands in the hands of Hood, the purchaser, it
would not be permitted to him to assert that the vendor
had, from the first, relied, only upon the personal security
taken.
And Scroggin and Hanna, the purchasers from Hood, are
in no better position. They are not bond fide purchasers
without notice. As we have seen, the lien for the purchase-

8

CORDOVA V. HOOD..'

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

money was apparent in the line of their title. Th deed
from Shields to Hood informed them that the consideration
was unpaid. It imposed upon them the duty of inquiring
whether it remained unpaid when they were about to make
their purchase.* Wherever inquiry is a duty, the party
bound to make it is affected with knowledge of all which he
would have discovered had he performed the duty. Means
of knowledge "vith the duty of using them are, in equity,
equivalent to knowledge itself. Had inquiry been made of
the vendor, it would easily have been ascertained that a portion of the purchase-money remained unpaid. Inquiry of
Hood, the debtor, if any such inquiry was made, was an idle
ceremony. The deed poiited to the person from whom purchasers from Hood were bound to seek information.
It has been suggested in the argument on-behalf of the
appellees, that taking up the original note, and giving another note for an'unpaid balance of the first, may have termina.ted the lien if any existed. Undqubtedly no agreement
made in 1860, when the new note was given, created a vendor's lien for its security. But the original lien was for all
the purchase-money, and for every part of it so long as it
remained unpaid. It was not merely security for the notes
first given; it was for the debt of which the notes were evidence. Giving the new note was not payment of the debt,
it was oni-y a change of the evidence, and, therefore, the fact
that it was given did not affect the lien. In Mims v. Locketl,t
it was held that if a vendor of laud takes a note fdr the
price, and subsequently renews it, adding in the new note sum bf money due him by the vendee on a different account, his vendor's lien will not be invalidated tlir-eby.
It has been further argued that even if Shields, the vendor,
* might have enforced a lien against the land had he continued
to hold the note, Bartlett, his assignee, cannot. It is contended that a vendor's lien is a personal right of the vendor
himself, not assignable. And hence that the assignee of a
note given for the purchase-money cannot resort in equity
M
"cAlpine v. Burnett, 23 Texas, 649.

t 23&
Georgia, 287.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

HICKEY.

Syllabus.

to the land sold. It must be admitted that such. is the doctrine of vei'y many cases, perhaps of those which have been
best considered, though there are many well-reasoned judgments to the contrary. But we think, for the purposes of
the present case, the law, as held by the Supreme Court of
Texas, must furnish the rule of decision. And the decisions
of that court appear to be that an assignment of the notes
given for purchase-money carries with it the lien to th'e
assignee.*
It has been held that in order to enforce a vendor's lien,
the bill must show that the complainant has exhausted his
remedy at law against the personal estate of the vendee, or
must show that he cannot have an adequate'remedy at law.
And this bill makes no such showing. But in Texas, as in
some other States, the creditor may proceed in the first instance to enforce the lien in equity.t
Upon, the whole, then, we think the Circuit Court erred
in 'dismissing the complainant's bill. He was entitled to a
decree.
DECREE REVERSED,and

the case remitted with, instructidns

to enter a decree for the complainant against Scroggin and
Hanna, the appellees and defendants below.

UNITED STATES V.

tICKEY.

1. When the Court of Claims, on a claim embracing several items, rejects'
some but allows others, against which allowance the United States alone
appeals, this court will not give consideration to the items rejected and
against whose rejection the claimant has not appealed, except so far as
may be necessary for a proper understanding of the item allowed. '
2. Where a lessee, after letting to another, reserving a rent, has assigned
all his "right, title, and interest" in the lease, and "authorized the
assignee to sue for, collect, and recover the lease, and the'rights to the
rent reserved under the same," declaring "it to be distinctly under]oore v. Raymond, 15 Texas, 554; Watt v. White, 33 Id. 425.
M
t'fXcAlpino v. Burnett, 19 Texas, 497.

