Oct. 1873.]

GODWIN

V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

GOODWIN V. UNITED STATES.
In August, 1865, at the close of the rebellion, A. chartered a vessel to the
United States, at a fixed sum per day, to carry military stores from
Wilmington, North Carolina, to the city of New York, A. warranting
her to be then "tight, staunch, and strong," and agreeing that while in
the service of the government she should be kept so, and that the time
lost by her not being so should not'be paid for by the government; "the
war risk to be borne-by the United States, the marinerisk by the owners"
On her voyage she sprung a leak and put into the island of St. Thomas,
raised money there on a bottomry bond, and with it was repaired. Arriving in New York, and the bottomry bond not being paid, the vessel
and cargo were libelled by the holder of the bond, attached by the marshul, and retained by him from the 10th of March to the 30th of July,
a space of one hundred and forty-four days; when a decree was made
against the vessel, and the cargo was liberated. The vessel was discharged from the service of the United States on the 7th of August following.
On a suit in the Court of Claims by A. to recover the per diem of $50 a
day, for the one hundred and forty-four days, during which the vessel
was detained by the marshal, held that the United States was not liable
for a per diem during that term; that the detention was incident to the
"marine risk," which the owner had expressly assumed, and that the
United States not having been blameworthy, there was nothing to shift
the burden from the party on whom the contract placed it.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims, in which court one
Goodwin, who had chartered a schooner to the United States,
at a fixed per diem, sought to recover the per diem during
one hundred and forty-four days in which, under the circumstaiices hereinafter mentioned, the vessel had been detained by the marshal of the United States on a libel filed
against her.
The Court of Claims dismissed his petition, and Goodwin
took this appeal.
Mr. T. J. D. -Fuller,for the appellants; Messrs. G. H.
Williams and C. E. Hill, contra.
Ivli'. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.,
The charter-party out of which this controversy has arisen

GOODWIN V. "UNITEDSTATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

is dated on the 26th of August, 1865. It stipulates, among
other things (1), that the schooner was then, and while in
the service of the government should be kept, "tight,
staunch, and strong," at the cost of the owners, and that
the time lost by any deficiency in these respects should not
be paid for by the United States. "The war risk to be
borne by the United States, the marine risk by the owners."
(2) The 'United States agreed to pay $50 per day for the
time the vessel was engaged in their service.
On the 17th of November, 186&, pursuant to the charterparty, the schooner left Wilmington, in North Carolina, for
the port of New' York-, laden with ordnance and ordnance
stores. On her way she sprung a leak and was compelled
to bear away and put into the port of St. Thomas, in the
'West Indies, for repairs. There the captain executed a bottomary bond, binding the vessel and cargo, and amounting,
principal and inter6st, to $17,399.71. Having received the
necessary- repairs the vessel left-St. Thomas on the 26th of
January, 1866, and reached New York on the 13th o'f February ensuing. There, the bottomry bond not being paid
at maturity, the vessel and cargo were libelled in the District
Court, and, on the 10th of March, they were attached on
that proceeding. The District Court dismissed the libel.
An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court. That court
affirmed the decree as to the cargo but reversed it as to the
vessel,- and finally decreed against the latter for the amount
due on the bond. The vessel was held by the marshal under
the attachment from the 10th of March until the 30th of
July. She was discharged from the service of the.United
,States on the 7th of Aug.ist.
A claim was made against the United States in: general
average. It was adjusted and paid to the satisfaction'of the
owners. All the per, diem compensation claimed has also
been paid except that for the time the vessel was in thehands of the marshal. Whether the claim for general average, and that for. the time lost by the vessel in deviating
from her course, going to St. Thomas, there awaI-ting re-.
pairs, and goibg thence to her port of destination, were not

Oct. 1873.]

OUTNER V.

UNITED STATES.

Syllabus.

covered by the marine risk she had assumed, are questions
not before us, and which we need not, therefore, consider.
The claim of per diem compensation for the time the
marshal held the vessel, is the only ground of controversy
between the parties, and it is the only subject open for examination in this case.
During that time, she was in the custody of the law, she
was in no wise in the employment of the United States nor
subject to their control. She did not, and could not render
them any service while thus held.
The United States had not stipulated to pay in such a
contingency. On the contrary, the detention was incident
to the marine risk which the owners had expressly assumed.
It was a fruit of that peril. The United States are not
blameworthy, and not responsible. The contract puts all
such burdens upon the shoulders of the owners. Those burdens cannot be shifted and thrown upon the other patty.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

OUTNER v. UNITED STATES.
1. A sale made without "a license to trade," by a loyal citizen of the United
States, on the 6th of March, 1865, when Savannah was occupied by the
Federal troops, to a loyal citizen of New York, of cotton which had
been returned by the owner, registered, and taken into possession by the
United States, and sent for sale to New York under the Captured and
Abandoned Property Act, held void, although the bill of sale of the
cotton authorized the attorney of the vendors to receive the proceeds of
sale and pay them to the vendees, and was thus argued to have been not
a sale of the cotton at Savannah, Georgia, but a sale of claim in Washington, D. 0. This was apparently decided under the act of July 13th,
1861, prohibiting and making unlawful "all commercial intercourse between the inhabitants of any State proclaimed to be in a state of insurrection against the United States, and the citizens of the rest of the
United States, so long as such condition of hostility should continue ;"
and the act of July 2d, 1864, making the prohibition applicable to all
commercial intercourse to persons being within districts within the lines
of National military occupation in such States.

