Oct. 1873.]

CARL TON "v.

463

BOiKrE.

Statement of the ease and opinion of the court.

the plaintiff; and perhaps other charges and expenditiires
equally inadmissible..
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court
belov, with directions to issue
A

VENIRE DE N9VO.

CARLTON V. BOKEE.
1. Where a claim in a patent uses general terms of reference to the specification, sucl! as I5substantially in the manner and for the purpose herein.
set forth," although the patentee will not be held to the precise combination of all'the parts described, yet his claim will be limited, by reference to the history of the art, to what was really first invented by
him.
2. General claims inserted in a reissued patent will be carefully scrutinized,
and will not be permitted to extend the rights of the patentee beyond
wvhat is shown by the history of the art to have been really his invention. If made to embrace more the claim will be void.
8. One void claim, if made by inadvertence and in good faith, will not
vitiate the entire patent.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
William Carlton et Al., ds assignees of Christian Reichmann, filed their bill in equity in the court below to restrain
Howard Bokee from infringing a patent for an improvement,
in lamps, granted to Reichmann on the 21st of September,
1858, and reissued to Carlton and one Merrill on the 11th
of August, 1868.
The court below dismissed the bill, ana the complainant
took this appeal.
The case- can be gathered from the facts stated in the
opinion of the court.

Messrs. J. .B. Latrob and B. B. Curtis,for the appellant;
Messrs. C. F. Bake and C. M. Kellei', contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The lamp, as patented to Reichmann, was one of a large

CARLTON V. .BOKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

number of attempts made about the time to utilize petroleum
and its virious products for purposes of illumination. The
old lamps adapted to sperm oil, lard, and other gross and
sluggish oils were unfitted for the use of so volatile and dangerous a substance. In them the flame was set close to the
lamp, and the tube holding the wick was projected downward into the oil, so that the heat of the flame might be
communicated thereto in order to render it more fluid and
susceptible to the capillary attraction of the wick. Such an
arrangement as .this with.petroleum would have produced a
speedy explosion. This arFI. 1.
ticle required that the flame
should be elevated as fair as
possible above the lamp and
that the metallic wick tube
should' not co mmunicate
beat to the fluid. This
was one object to be attained in the burners required for the use of the
new illuminator. Another
for
was some contrivance
concentrating a current of
k

1any

"

V

m
k'- k

g

,

=escaping

----

air upon the flame itself; so
as to consume as perfectly

as possible all the rapidly
volatile gases, both
a,; a-saving of lighit and as'a
preventive of the disagreeable odors-which they would
othdrwise diffuse.
Reichmanu's burner, illustrated in Figure 1, was in-

tended to. accomplish these
main objects as well as some
subsidiary ones, which will
hereafter appear. It consisted of several distinct parts, combined 'and arranged in a particular manner. First, a flat

Oct. 1873.]

OARLTON V.

BOKEE.

Statement of the case an& opinion of the court.

wick-tube (indicated in the figure by the letter c) attached
to the cap or stopper of the lamp, and rising above the same
one or two inches, more or less, according to the size of the
burner, but not projecting into the lamp below. Secondly,
ratchet-wheels attached to the side of the wick-tube on a
small shaft (g), for laising and lowering the wick. Thirdly,
a slide or sleeve (i) fitted to slip up and down over the wicktube, and sufficiently tight to stay in any position thereon,
and furnished with arms (o, o), two or more, for supporting
above the wick-tube a dome or deflector (m). Four~thly, the
dome aforesaid, having an oval or oblong slot for the flame
to pass through, so that part of the flame might be above
the dome and part below it. The object of this dome was
to collect and concentrate the air upon the flame, in order
to make it burn more brightly and consume the hydro-carbon and other gases which emanated from the petroleum.
It also acted as a deflector of the light proceeding from the
lower part of the flame, whereby it was thrown downward
towards and around the lamp, whereas the light from that
part of the flame above the dome was all thrown upward or
horizontally about the room. Fifthly, around the periphery
of the dome several narrow slips of the metal (I,) were turned
up, to act as arms or supports to the glass chimney of the
lamp, and between these arms spaces were cut out of the
edge of the dome, to allow air tb pass up betw-en the dome
and chimney for the purpose of guiding the fi,.ne and feeding it with additional oxygen. Sixthly, the chimney itself
(p), which was placed inside of and upon the said arms or
supports, and held in its position thereby.
This was the combination of elements of which Reichmann's burner consisted, and it will be perceived that the
chimney was so elevated that the flame of the lamp below
the dome was exposed on every side, and a current of air or
a rapid movement of the lamp would extinguish it. This.
was the great defect of the burner, which prevented its intro- o
duction into general use, and rendered it of little value. The
principal.advantage which Reichmann in his patent claimed
for it was that it allowed the light from the under side of
VOL. xVI.

30

466

CARLTON

v.

BonEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

the deflector to be reflected or thrown downward upon the
table or lamp, This was effected by the use of upright,
slender arms to support the dome, so that the space around
and underneath the dome was left. open and uninclosed.
He also claimed some less important advantages in his arrangement of the ratchet-wheels for raising the wick, and
.one or two other things of no importance in this controversy.
The patent had but one claim and that amounted to the
general combination of elements referred to and their peculiar arrangement. It was in these words:
"What I claim as new and desire to secure by letters-patent
is, in combination with the lamp, the slotted, open, bell-shaped
cap (i.e., the dome), when so constructed, arranged, and operating as to allow light to be deflected downwards, substantially
in the manner and for the purpose herein set forth and explained."
In order to understand how narrow this claim really was,
it is necessary to know a little of the history of the art.
Two well-known burners are conceded to have been in use
before Reichmann's invention, which hae a material bearing on his claims; the Vienna burner and Stuber's burner.
These have been' exhibited to us.
The Vienna burner, shown in Figure 2, contained the flat
.wick-iube, the ratchet-wheel attached thereto (but covered
and 'not exposed as in Reichmann's), and a slotted dome
above the Wick for the flame to pass through, and a chimney; but the dome was not supported by slender arms, as
in Reichmaun's, but was connected with a gallery, which
supported the chimney and surrounded the wick-tube and
dome, and* rested on' the lamp or cap b'elow, so that all
the light of the flame belowthe dome was inclosed and lost
and could not-issue out as in Rleichmann's burner. The
drawing shows the dome (a), the surrounding gallery (b),
and the lower part of the wick-tube (c).
The Stuber burner, invented by John Stuber in 1856, and
made in- considerable quantities in that and the following
years at Utica, New -York (shown, in Figure 3), was an im-

Oct. 1873.]

CARLTON v. BOKEE.
Statement of the case and opinion of the court.
FIG. 2.

FIG. 3.

a

/d

61=00000o000ooooooo
OOOOOO3000DOO3)

FIG. 4.

CArTTON v. B6xEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

proveme--t on the Vienna burner, in this, that the gallery
was so low as to leave a considerable open space under the
dome for the reflected light to pass out in a downward di.rection, and the dome was supported by slender arms (d),
but these arms were attached to the gallery and not to a
sleeve fitted on to the wick-tube. It differed, therefore,
from Reichmann's in these respects: the chimney was supported on a low gallery instead of the dome itself, and the
dome was supported by arms (d) attached to this gallery instead of arms attached to a sleeve on the wick-tube.* Therefore, with these burners before us, all the invention we can
discover in Reichmann's burner is the peculiar mode of supporting his dome by slender arms attached to a sleeve fitted
on to the wick-tube, and the elevation of the chimney on the
outer edge of the dome. The latter peculiarity, as we have
seen, is a defect which rendered the burner nearly useless.
The lamp made and sold by'the defendants is substantially
exhibited (in a sectional view) in Figure 6, which was patented to L. J. Atwood, October 13th, 1863. The dome and
chimney are lifted from their place on the cap of the lamp
to show the parts.
The allegation of the complainants that the defendant
uses Reichmann's invention of peripheral springs (m)around
the edge of the dome (h) for steadying his chimney wo regard
as fallacious. The transformation by a mere trick of words
and vague generalities of the- arms or supports used by
Reichmann to sustain his chimney into peripheral springs
may be ingenious, but it cannot stand the test of sober consideration. It -is not pretended that Reichmann produced
ianything more than the arms or supports shown in his original patent, marked k in Figure 1. These were mere slips of
* The Figure 4 shows another form of Stuber's invention. In Figure 3
upright strips of metal embrace the exterior of the chimney so as to make it
stand steadily. In Figure 4 an ornamented crown-piece with large openings,
reducing the quantity of metal embracing the chimney to not greatly more
than what is in the "upright strips of metal," seen in Figure 3, performs the
same functions that the last do in the burner illustrated bythe said Figure 3.
-REP.

Oct. 1873.]

CARLTON v.o

o0KEE.

Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

metal turned up around the edge of the dome, such as had
been in common use for a great period of time. All that
Reichmann did new in this regard was to elevate his chimney on the top of the dome. This, in fact, rendered his lamp
in the main useless, and the defendant does not copy it, but
slips his chimney down around the dome and places it -on a
platform perforated with holts, which rests upon the cap of
the lamp and answers to the bottom or floor of Stuber's gallery. He thus surrounds the flame with the chimney below
as well as above the dome and prevents it from being extinguished by drafts of air without obstructing the issue of the
light from below the dome. In this respect his lamp is
more like Stuber's than Reichniann's. It is true that he
keeps his chimney from coming in contact with the dome
by surromding the latter with a fine spiral spring or metallie fringe (m), but this has no resemblance or analogy to the
supporting arms appended by Reichmann to his dome.
The question whether the defendant's burner, which is
called the Comet, contains the other peculiarity of Reichmann's burner, namely, the supporting of the dome by slender arms attached directly to a sleeve fitted snugly upon the
wick-tube, admits of more discussion. The dome was supported by slender arms both in Stuber's and Reichmann's
lamps, but in the former the arms were attached to the surrounding gallery on which the chimney rested, and which
was slipped over a raised portion bf the base (f) to which
the wick-tube was affixed and there held in place by a bayonet fastening, whilst in Reichmann's burner the atms were
attached to a sleeve, fitted directly upon the wick-tube so
snugly as to support the dome and chimney firmly and
steadily, as before described. Now, in the Comet burner of
the defendant, the arms supporting the dome (k), Figure 5,
are attached to the platform before mentioned, which answeers the place of the gallery floor in Stuber's burner; and
the central portion of whieh is perforated with an opening
or-slot (i)so as to pass down over the wick-tube when being
placed oii the lamp; around this slot or opening the platform is raised next to the wick-tube in a conical form (g), so

[Sup. CL.

CARLTON V. BOKEE.
Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

that the top edge of the raised part touches the wick-tube,
and thus helps to give steadiness to the dome and chimney.
The arms are attached to this raised part. But this raised
portion of the platform is very far from being Reichmann's
sleeve, which was a pecuFIG. 5.
liar characteristic in his
-----------------"lamp,
and the sleeve arrangement was all that
Reichmann pretended to
have produced. Its .generalization in the reissued
.patent
.

is simply effected by

a dexterous use of words
and vague generalities.
We are constraified to
hold, therefore, that the
Comet burner is not ani
infringement of Reichmann's original' patent or

.2

m

m

,k
Y

o .

f

of the invention which is

exhibited' in his original
specification.
It is proper next to inquire as to the bearing of

the reissued patent on the
question in litigation between the parties. The
defences made by the defendant against this reissue are, first, that it was
obtained illegally, wrongfully,and by false preten-

.ces, and because it seeks
to claim things of which
Reichmann was not the
original and first inventor;
secondly, that the original
patent itself was void, be-

Oct. 1873.]

CARLTON V. B3OKEE.
Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

cause the only thing in it whiTh Reiebmann had any pretence of inventing was anticipated by a man by the name of
Michael Collins, as early as 1843.
The specification of the reissued patent describes the
burner of :Reichmann substantially as was done in the original patent, being interspersed, however, with observations as
to the uses and objects of particular parts, evidently borrowed
from subsequent experience and events. .The single claim
of the original patent is expanded into seven distinct claims.
The first three of these claims, taken with the qualifications
which they contain, and limited as they must be by the
state of the art at the time when the original patent was applied for, amount to precisely the same thing and to no more
than the one claim of the original patent. The first is for a
combination of only two elements, it is true, the flat wicktube and the dome, which combination is found in both the
Vienna and Stuber burners; but a qualificatioa is added,
that the combination is to be "t.Iaxder the arrangement substantially as shown and described, so that, while directly con
nected with each other, the said parts shall allow light to pass
out or be reflected from between them, as set forth. ' Thus
it is made essential to the invention here claimed, not only
that the two elements named should be present, but that
they should have the arrangement described in the patent,
and should have a direct connection with each other, and
that the light should be reflected from between them. All
these things exist in the Stuber burner except one. In that
burner the wick-tube and the dome are not directly connected together. The dome is first connected with the gallery and the gallery with the wick-tube. So that the claim
is reduced to the same thing which was claimed in the original patent. The same may be said of the second and third
claims. If they mean anything more than the claim in the
original patent they are void. Being identical with that
they are needlessly multiplied, and by exhibiting a seeming
of claimsto which.Reichmann was not entitled they are calculated to confuse and mislead. We'think it proper to reiterate our disapprobation of thes,, ingenious attempts to

CARLTON

v.

BOKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case and opinion of the court.

expand a simple invention of a distinct device into an allembracing claim, calculated by its wide generalizations and
ambiguous language to discourage further invention in the
same department of industry and to cover antecedent inventions. Without deciding that a repetition of substantially
the same claim in different words will vitiate a patent, we
hold that where a. specification by ambiguity and a needless
multiplication qf nebulous claims is calculated to deceive
and mislead the public, the patent is void.
The fourth claim was clearly anticipated by the burner
of Stuber. It is in the following words:
" A lamp-burner composed of two groups of elements, the first
consisting of the base with its wick-tube and wick-adjusting
rack and pinions; the second of a chimney-holder, deflector, and
such other parts as may be needed for the proper combustion
of the fluid so as to produce an illuminating flame, the two
groups being united by friction, and the latter when in position
in the burner being supported by the former without the intervention of any mechanical device whereby the two may e rigidly connected together, substantially as and for the purpooes
herein shown and set forth."
Everything here claimed is found in Stuber's burner. If
this claim is valid Stuber could be enjoined. The addition
of a bayonet fastening by Stuber does not destroy the identity of his lamp with the alleged invention described in this
claim. It follows that this claim is void for this reason,
without reference to other objections which have been suggested in relation to it. One void claim, however, does not
vitiate the entire patent, if made by mistake or inadvertence
and without any wilful default or intent to defraud or mislead the public. Giving to the complainants the whole benefit of this indulgence there is still nothing in the remaining
claims which the defendant is called upon to answer. They
are merely for combinations of parts in the original burner
of Reichmann which the defendant does not use unless the
pretence of a claim to peripheral springs as distinguished
from lReichmann's arms and supports can be sustained. We
have already seen that this cannot be done.

Oct. 1873.]

WILSON V.

CITY BANK.

Syllabus.

Our conclusion, therefore, is that the Comet burner is no
infringement of Reichmann's reissued patent so far as that
patent is valid.
This view of the case makes it unnecessary to discuss the
question relating to the alleged invention of Collins. Whilst
his conduct and testimony and that of the other witnesses
who testify to his invention are susceptible of much criticism,
we think it proper to say that we should feel great difficulty
in disregarding it altogether. If the models presented by
him were really his invention at the time sworn to, the
Reichmann patent has no foundation whatever to stand on.
But waiving the discussion of this question we feel bound
to affirm the decree of the Circuit Court for the reasons
above stated.
DECREE AFFIRMED.*

WILSON V. CITY BANK.
1. Under a sound construction of the thirty-fifth and thirty-ninth sections of
the Bankrupt Act something more than passive non-resistance in an insolvent debtor, is necessary to invalidate a judgment and levy on his
property when the debt is due and he has no defence.
2. In such case there is no legal obligation on the debtor to file a petition in
bankruptcy to prevent the judgment and levy, and a failure to do so is
not sufficient evidence of an intent to give a preference to the judgment
creditor, or to defeat the operation of the bankrupt law.
3. Though the judgment creditor in such a case may know the insolvent
condition of the debtor, his judgment and levy upon his property are
not, therefore, void, and are no violation of the act.
4. A lien thus obtained by him will not be displaced by subsequent proceedings in bankruptcy, though commenced within four months after levy
of the execution or rendition of the judgment.
5. Veryslight circumstances, however, which tend to show the existenc3 of an
affirmative desire on the part of the bankrupt to give a preference, or to,
* This case was adjudged at the term before last, but owing to the Re-

porter's inability to procure drawings of the different burners spoken of in
the opinion, and which, as to most of them, were exhibited to the court only
by the production of the burners themselves, an earlier report has not been
practicable.

