UNITED STATES V. ISHA4.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement'of the case.

UNITED STATES V. ISHAM.
1. The words memorandum, check," in that part of the schedule of instruments~required by the statute of June, B0th, 1864 (13 Stat. at Large, p.
298, 158), to be stamped, which-in theprinted statute-books are printed
"
with a comma between them, should read, "memorandum-check, with
a hyphen instead of a comma.
2. In settling whether an instrument sh6uld be stamped or not, regard is to
be bad to its-form, rather than to its operation. Though it may be a
device to avoid the revenue acts, and though its operation may have the
effect of avoiding them, yet if the device be carried out by means of
legal forms, it is subject to no legal. censure.
ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the Eastern'District of .Michigan;
the case being thus:
The act of June 80th, 1864, "to provide internal revenue
to support the govern ment," e.,* requires certain instruments, specified in a schedule which it contains, to be
stamped. The schedule is as follows:

BANK-CnECK, draft, or order for the payment of any sum of
money whatever, drawn upon any bank, banker, or trust company, or for any sum exceeding $10 drawn upon any other
person or persons, companies or corporations at sight or on
.....
deniand,
-Billof.exchange (ipiland), draft, or order for the payment of any
sum of money Aot exceeding $100, otherwise than at sight or
on demand, or any promissorynoe (excep bank notes issued
for circulation, and checks made afid intended to be forthwith
presented, and which shall be presenteffto a bank or banker
for payment), or any memorandum, check, receipt, or other
written or printed evidence of an amouni of money to be paid on
demand, or at a time designated, for a sum not exceeding
$100, .........
And for every additional $100, or fractional part thereof in excess
.
.
..
..
of $100..

2 cents.

5

"

This statute being in force, the United States filed, in 1871,
a criminal information in' the court below against E. B.
IRham, for issuing without a stamp and with intent to evade
13 Stat. at Large,
14 16. 144.

158, p. 298, amended by the act of July 13th, 1866;

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. ISHAM.
Statement of the case.

the provisions of the above-quoted act, a paper in the form
of a draft drawn upon one C. J. Canda. The paper, which
was attached to and rhade part of each count of the information, was in this form:

[V.]
[1190]

IRON CLIPFS COMPANY.

[FVE.]

NEGAUNEE, MICE., Jan. 3d, 1870.

Pay to the order of.....,E B. Isham, Supt.. ...... or bearer,
.fiveolr,
Value receired, and charge to account of
To C. J. C uDA, EsQ., New York.
Countersigned:

. R. ISHAML
E. S. GREEN, Clerk.

It appeared from the testimony offered by the government, that the Iron Cliffs Company was a corporation of
Michigan; situated at Negaunee, in the State just named,
and engaged in mining iron-ore and in manufacturing pigiron. It had an office at Negaunee, where its business was
carried on, and a head office in New York, where its board
of directors met, and its funds were kept. Isham was superintendent of the works at Negaunee, and resided there.
Canda was treasurer of the company, and resided in New
York. The company had been in the practice of issuing
paper like the instrument above set forth, in payment for
labor or other debts due at the mine since January, 1868,
nearly all payments of balances due for labor having been
made since that time and up to 1871, when the information
was filed, in it. The amount issued annually since that time
had been about $100,000. The blanks were sent to Isham
from New York, and signed by him as drawn. The denominations issued were of $1, $2, $3, $5 and $10. When
the Iron Clifs Company began to issue this paper, there
were hardly any facilities for getting currency into the
country, except taking it through one hundred and twenty
miles of staging, and through a wilderness chiefly; and when
it was issued, it, to some extent, went into circulation, and
answered the purpose of a local currency. It was taken at
a store, in which the company was interested, in payment for
VOL. XV11.

32,

UiItED STATES V. ISHAM.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case. .

goods, and by all the banks and banking-houses .in that
region, and sometimes paid out by them, on checks. But
when in the course of business it came into the hands of a
bank or banker, or a merchant, it was generally. retained
until a considerable amount of it was on hand-say from
$1000 tb $2000-and then either sent to New Yorkby express for redemption, or Isham took it up and gave to the
holder'a draft on New York for the amount. When Isham
took this paper in this way, by giving the holder a large
draft for it, he frequently reissued it, or paid it out again in
the course of-the company's business at the mine; but when
it was finally paid in, New York, it was cancelled and de-,
stroyed.
On this and similar evidence the following questions arose,
concerning which the defendant requested the court to instruct the jury in his favor, and for a verdict of acquittal:
"' 1st. Whether-the instrument was on its face subject to be
stamped?
1,2d. Whether the evidence tending to prove that Isham. was
superintendent of the Iron Cliffs Cbmpany, and drew the instrument in that capacity, or that Canda was the treasurer of
the said company, and the instrument was drawn upon him in
that capacity, or that the said paper was drawn in the course
of the' company's business, was relevant and admissible?
"3d. Whether, if the paper in question was made and issned
with the design that it should be used as a local circulating
medium, and was actually used by the holders as such, it thereby
became subject to be stamped, and whether the evidence given
by the prosecution, tending to prove these facts, was relevant
and admissible?
"4th. Whether, assuming every fact which the evidence in
support of the prosecution tended to prove, the defendant was
guilty of the offence charged?
"5tb. Whether the information in this case sufficiently charged
any offence under-the laws of the United States?"

And the following further question, upon which the district attorney requested the court to charge in favor of the
prosecution:

Oct. 1873.]

O NITED STATES V. ISHAM.
Argument for the United States.

"6th. Whether if the instrument set forth in the information
and adduced in evidence was issued with the design and inteit
to secure time for the payment of the debt it represented, it was
therefore subject to stamp duty?"
Which questions (the judges being divided in opinion
upon them) were now certified to this court for its opinion.
Jfr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, for the United States:
The schedule of instruments required by the act of 1864
to be stamped,. includes in its second paragraph (as quoted
supra, p. 496), "any merorandum, check, &c., or other written
or printed ovidence of an amount of money to be paid on
demand."
If not
The instrument under consideration is a "check."
a "check," it is a "memorandum, or other written or
printbd evidence of an amount of money to be paid on demand." This would be the ordinary and popular view of
the instrument, and if either a "memorandum" or "check,"
"or other written or printed evidence for a sum of money
to be paid on demand," &c., it must be stamped.
In legal view, however, instruments which assume the
form of drafts, but which are drawn by a party upon himself,
although loosely and for general purposes, as we have said,
styled drafts or checks, are, in' essence, promissory notes.
The case is the same where the drawer and the drawee are
apparently different persons, but in truth mere agents of
one person known to all parties,'and acknowledged as the
only debtor in the transaction. In such cases the paper is
accepted from its origin, and the contingent liability of the
drawer, so characteristic of mere checks, never arises, being
merged before issue in the absolute liability of the same
person, as acceptor. That such instruments are promissory
notes, was decided in England in the leading case of Miller
v. Thornson,* and has been sustained in several cases in this
country; notably by the high commercial authority of the
* 3 Manning & Granger, 576.

U1ITED STATES V. ISHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the prisoner.

Court of Appeals of New York in Fairchildv. The Ogdensburgh -RailroadGompany.*.
Now, here the evidence shows, that the drawer (Isham),
payee (Isham again), and drawee (Canda) vere agents of one
corporation, the only debtor; and indeed that Isharn himself, the drawer, ,redeemed the bills when they had got in
considerable amounts ($10,00 to $2000) in the hands of a
bank, banker, or merchant.
Independently of the evidence the character of the instrument is disclosed on its face. It is there numbered 1190.
It is shown to be one of a large number, of like sort, issued
by a company in the region of the iron mines, engaged
in dealing in iron. Isham, the drawer and.payee, is styled
"sup't," superintendent. Canda, designated as- of New
York, the source of capital, no one could doubt was a
treasurer.
Alike visibly and by proofs, the transaction was a device
to avoid the payment of a stamp duty, and its operation
was a fraud on the internal revenue act.
Messrs. C. P. James and J. H bley Ashlon, for the prisoner,
argued contra:
1st. That doubtless the 'wbrds "memorandu rni, check,"
printed in the statute-book with!,a.comma between them,
were, in respect of the comma, incorrectly printed; that
statutes as engrossed, had no punctuation in -them; that, as
this cofirt has said,t punctuation is "a most'fallible standard" by which to interpret an instrument, and that the act
as passed was doubtless " memorandum check." Aided
by the printer, the words should have appeared " memorandum-check." This quite altered the sense.
As for the rest of the phrase, " other written or printed
evidence," &c., the precedin.g "partof the schedule having,
* 15 New York, 337; and see Hasey v. The White Pigeon Beet Sugar

Company, 1 Douglass, Michigan, 193.
j- Ewing v. Burnett, 11 Peters, 54; and seeEx parte Irvine, I Pennsylvania
Law Journal, 292 and 300, where the observation'was applied to a statute.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED

STATES "V. ISHAM[.

501

Opinion of the court.

by exclusion, specifically described this instrument, the g6neral words would not apply.
2d. That the instrument was, inform, a draft or order tor
the payment of money drawn upon a person other than "a
bank, banker, or trust company," and it was for less than
$10; that the stamp duty was to be regulated by the form of
the paper; and that not being in form a promissory note,
the stamp requisite for instruments which were in that form
was unnecessary.
The paper, therefore, required no stamp, and the prosecution must fail.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of the opinion that the position taken by the
counsel. of the defendant is corret,-that the paper issued
-required no stamp, and that the prosecution must fail.
The scheddle of instruments required by the statute of
1864 to be stamped, designates the various instruments and
writings to be taxed by the well-known names and descriptions of the paper, and specifies the amounts of duty in substance as follows:
1st. Every bank-check, 2 cents.
2d. Every draft or order for the payment of any sum of
money at sight or on denand (except where the draft or order
is so drawn on a person, company, or corporation other than
a bank, banker, or trust company, and for a sum not exceeding $10), 2 cet.its.
3d. Every bill of exchange, draft, or order for the payment of any sum of money othenvise than at stght or- on demnand, for every $100, 5 cents.
4th. Every promissory note, for each $100, 5 cents.
5th. Every memorandum, check, receipt, or other written
or printed evidence of an amount of money to be paid on
demand or at a time designated, for a sum not exceeding
$100, 5 cents.
6th. If the draft or order is drawn on a person not a
banker, 6r a bank or a trust company, and does not exceed
$10, then no stamp is required.

UNITED STATES V. ISHAM.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

There is probably an error in the punctuation of the
statute ini regard to the item which reads, "memorandum,
check, receipt, or other written or printed evidence of an
amount of money to be paid." It should read "memorandum-check (with a hyphen between the words), receipt, or
other written or printed evidence." A "check" was specifically provided for already in the schedule, and it is not
*tobe assumed that Congress. would, in the same schedule,
make two provisions, differing from each other, for the same
subject. A memorandum-check, however, is an instrument
well known in the commercial law, which, it might be
claimed, did not come under the general term of a check,
and which, therefore, had not been specifically provided for.
A memorandum-check is in the ordinary form of a bankcheck, with the word "memorandum" written across its
face, and is not intended for immediate presentation, but
simply as evidence of an indebtedness by the drawer to the
holder.
Mr. Parsons, in his work on lNotes and Bills,* says: "It
has been said that the word 'memorandum,' or 'mere.,'
written on the check would not affect the right-of the holder.
We think this might have been doubted, because there is a
well-known custom in all our commercial cities of drawing
and using checks in this form merely as due-bills, or as what
they are, an'd are called ' memorandum-checks."'
In Dylcers v. The Leather Manufacturers'Bank,t it was said:
"The weight of the testimony is, that this memorandum
amounts to nothing more than an indication of an understanding that the check is not to be presented immnediately
for payment, so as to destroy the drawer's credit with the
bank, where he has not provided funds to meet the draft."
It is stated further in Parsons, + that the holder may present the same for payment, if the name of the bank is not
cancelled on the check.
In Frianklin Bank v; .Reenian,ยง the court speak of memo* Vol. 2, p. 66.

SSupra.

t" 11 Paige, 615.
16 Pickering, 535.

OcL. 1873.1

UNITED STATES:V. ISHAM.

Opinion of the court.

ran dum-checks as well known in Boston, and say-that the
rules of business with regard to them are well understood.
In Glover v. Graeser,* it is said that memorandum-checks,
being regular bank-checks with the word "memorandum"
written on their face, are constantly used in settlement of
accounts between merchants, as admissions of amounts of
money due.
This reading makes the statute harmonious and sensible,
providing for bank-checks, drafts, inland lMills, promissory
notes, memorandum-checks, receipts, and assigning to each
its proper position.
It is said that in many instances the statute refers to the
same subject more than once, under' different names, and
with different rates of duty, and that embarrassment in the
construction of the statute may arise from this cause. Thus
a~check, whether drawn upon a bank or an individual, is in
the nature and form of an inland bill of exchange, having
a drawer; a drawee, and usually a payee. The statute describes checks, drafts, and promissory notes, and subsequently speaks of a memorandum-clieck; also of a receipt
or other written or printed evidence of an amount of money
to be paid. These general terms plainly include the specificitions already made. A bank-check, a memorandumcheck, a draft, or a bill of exchange- each furnishes written
or printed 'vidence of an amount of money to be paid. So
does a promissory note. A.note is, indeed, the regular and
usual evidence in dealings between men, that money is to
be paid, whether in cities or in the country, and whether
the transactions be limited or extensive; and yet, bankchecks and drafts, or orders at sight or on denfind, require
different stamps from memorandum-checks, bills of exchange, and promissory notes.
A few simple rules will dispose of the most of the difficulties that may arise:
1st. Instruments' described in technical language, or in
*

10 Richardson's Equity, 446.

UNITED

STATES V.

ISHAM.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

terms especially descriptive of their own character, are
classed under that head, and are not to be included in the.
general words of the statute.
2d. The words of the statute are to be taken in the sense
in which they will be understood by that public in which
they are to take effect. Science and skill are not required
in their. interpretation, except where scientific or technical
terms are used.
3d. The liability of an instrument to a stamp duty, as
well as the amount of such duty, is determined by the form
and face of the instrument, and cannbt be affected by proof
of facts outside of the instrument itself.
4th. If there is a doubt as to the liability of an instrument to taxation, the construction is in favor of the exemption,, because, in the language of Pollock, 0. B., in Girr v.
Scudds * "a tax cannot be imposed without clear and express
words for that purpose."
These principles are based in good sense, and are sustained by the authorities.In Williams v. Jarrett,twhere the question was, whether
a bill was liable to the stamp duty imposed upon bills "exceeding two months after date," it was held, that the date
meant the time expressed on the face of the bill, and that it
did not depend upon the fact that the bill actually had more
than two months to run. Denman, 0. J., says: "If a bill
bears no date, we must ascertain by evidence tht day wheii
it issued, but where there is a date, that must be considered as the time to which the schedule refers."
In Whistler v. Forster,j the same language is used by Erle,
C.J., and by Willes, J. The latter says: "Drafts payable
to order, not being affected by either of those enactments,
fall within the law as to bills of exchange, which have been
repeatedly held not to be void by post-dating, though that
11 Exchequer, 191; see also Conroy v. Warren, B Johnson's Cases, 259,
to the same effect.

f 5 BarnewalU & Adolphus, 32.

$-14

Common Bench (New Series), 257.

Oct. 1873.']

UNITED

STATES V.

ISHAM.

Opinion of the court.

should have, the effect of making the instrument require a
less stamp than if it had been dated correctly and payable
at the same time."
In bull v. O'Sulllran,* decided in 1871, the cases of Whistler
v. Forster, and Willianms v. Jarrett, are approved, and the
rule is thus announced: "There is nothing in the statutes
to invalidate a post-dated check on a banker payable to
order on demand, and in determining what is the requisite
stamp to make such an instrument admissible in evidence,
the instrument alone is to be looked at. Such a check is
aailable in the hands of a person who took it with knowledge that it was post-dated, and is admissible in evidence
with only a penny stamp." lannan, J., further says: "We
are of opinion that the stamp acts above referred to, so far
as they relate to bills of exchange and orders for the payment of money, deal with those documents only as they appear on their face, without reference to any collateral agreement or condition by which their apparent operation may
be affected."
It is not necessary, in this view of the case, to decide
whether an order drawn by one officer of a corporation upon
another officer of the same corporation is in law a promissory note, nor whether it may simply be treated as such in
pleading; nor is it necessary to decide whether the fact that
the order is drawn upon Mr. Canda individually, and not as
treasurer of the corporation, will affect the result. Whatever may be the law on this subject, it will not afect the
case before us. The instrument we are considering is, in
form, a draft or check upon an individual. It is not in forni
a promissory note. It must, therefore, pay the stamp duty
of a draft or order, and not that of a promissory note. It
is not permissible to the courts, nor is it required of individuals who use the instrument in their bisiness, to inquire
beyond the face of the paper. Whatever upon its face it
purports to be, that it is for the purpose of ascertaining the
stamp duty. The paper here, as we have said, has the dis* law Reports, 6 Q. B. 209.

506

UNITED STATES V. ISHAM.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of thecourt.

tinctive form of a draft or check upon an individual. It
falls under that specific description, and is to be taxed according to that description, not varied by proof, and not
ranked under any general terms contained in the statute.
It is said that the transaction proved upon the trial in this
case, i4 a device to avoid the payment of a stamp duty, and
that its operation is that of a fraud upon the revenue. This
may be true, and if not true-in fact hr this case, it may well
be true in other instances. To this objection there are two
answers:
1st. That if the device is carried out by the means of legal
forms, it is subject to no legal censure. To illustrate. The
Stamp Act of 1862 imposed a duty of two cents upon a bankcheck, when drawn for an amount not less than twenty'dollars. A careful individual, having the amount of twenty
dollars to pay, pays the. same by handing to his creditor two
checks of ten dollars-each. He thus draws checks in payment of his debt to the amount of twenty dollars, and yet
pays no stamp duty. This practice and this system he pursues habitually and persistently. While his operations deprive the government of the duties it might reasonably
expect to receive, it is not perceived that the practice is
open to the charge of fraud. He resorts to devices to avoid
the payment of duties, but they are not illegal. He has the
legal right to split up his evidences of payment, and thus to
avoid the tax. The device we are considering is of the same
nature.
Another answer may be given to the objedtion, more comrehensive in its character. It is this: that the adoption of
a rule that the form of the instrument can be disregarded,
and its real character be investigated for the purpose of determining the stamp duty, would produce difficulties and
inconveniences vastly more injurious than that complained
of. Such a rule would destroy the circulating capacity of
bills, or drafts, or orders. The present act imposes the same
stamp duty upon inland bills of exchange and promissory
notes, but this is an accidental circumstance only. Suppose
that the draft is made subject to a tax of five cents on the

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. ISHAM.
Opinion of the court.

hundred dollars, and the note to a tax of ten cents on the
hundred dollars. The defendant contends that a draft or
bill drawn by one officer of-a company upon another officer
of the same company, is, in legal effect, a promissory note.
Upon the supposition thus made, its real character would
require a tax of twice the amount of that indicated upon its
face, and if the stamp be too small, the instrument is absolutely void from its inception.* In the language of the statute, it shall be "deemed invalid and of no effect."
Is every man to whom a paper in the form of a bill of exchange is presented, bound to inquire whether there are not
outside circumstances that may affect its nature? Having
ascertained this, is he bound to delay all. proceedings until
he can take legal advice upon its nature and character?
This he must do uponi the theory contended for, and he
must be certain, also, that his advice is correct; otherwise
he will lose the money he advances upon the bill. The
same rule, it is contended, will apply where the drawee does
not appear upon the face of the bill to be an officer of the
company. Such is the case before us, where Mr. Canda, the
drawee, does n6t appear upon the bill itself to be connected
with the company, and yet the prosecution contends that it
may be proved that he is its treasurer, and that thereupon
the instrument ceases to be a draft or order for the payment
of money, and becomes a promissory note.
That the rule contended for is impracticable in a commercial country is too obvious to require farther illustration.
We are satisfied that the principles heretofore laid down
must govern the case before us.

These views require that an answer in the negative should
be given to each of the questions certified to this court.
They are accordingly so answered, and the record must be
returned to the court below with directiong to
DIs MISS THE INFORMATION.
* Stat.,

158.

