Oct. 1873.]

DANIEL V.

WHARTENBY.

Statement of the-case.

We repeat the doctrine of this court laid down in Deery v.
aj,* that while it is a sound principle that no judgment
should be reversed on error when the error complained of
worked no injury to the party against whom the ruling was
made, it must appear so clear as to be beyoind doubt that the
error did not and could not have prejudiced the right of the
party. The case must be such that this court is not called
on to decide upon the preponderauce of evidence that the
verdict was right, notwithstanding the error complained of.
Other errors are assigned as to the charge of the court,
but, as no exception was taken to that charge, it cannot be
considered; nor do we deem the errors alleged as growing
out of the prayers -asked and refused likely to occur again,
even if they are fairly presented by the record now.
For the error in admitting the letter objected to the judgment is reversed and the case remanded for
NEW TRIAL.

Mr. Justice DAVIS was absent at the argument.

DANIEL V. WJHARTENBY.

A testator gave his estate, both real and personal, to his son, R. T., "during
his natural life, and after his death to his issue, by him lawfully begotten
of his body, to such issue, their heirs and assigns forever." In case
R. T. should die without lawful issue, then, in that case, he devised the
estate to his own widow and two sisters, "during the natural life of
each of them, and to the survivor of them," and after the death of all
of them to J. W., his heirs and asigns forever; with some provisions
in case of the death of J. W. during the life of the widow and sisters.
Held that the rule in Shelly's Case did not apply, and that the estate in
R. T., the first taker, was not a fee-tail, but was an estate for life, with
remainder in fee to the issue of his body, contingent upon the birth of
such issue, and in default of such issue remainder for life to his widow
and two sisters, with remainder over in fee, after their death, to J. W.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Delaware.
James Whartenby brought ejectment in the court below
* 5 Wallace, 795.

PIANI.E.L V. WHARTENBY.

I, .[u
[

,ct.

Statement of the case in.tha opinion.

against William Daniel and others .for certain premises in

the St4te ofDelaware.
Under the instructions given to the.jury a verdict was
rendered in ,favor of theplaintiff And .judgmentiwas entered
accordingly. TJhe. defejdants,,having, excepted to the instructions; sue outthis writ of errorand ,brought.the case
here for. review.
IMr., ?eqqrdy Jqohnsonrfor.fleplaintiffs in error ; Messrs. T.
and,J. 4,. Bayard, contra.

.

Mr. Justice SWAXNE stated the case' and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The premises in, controversy were devised by the will of
JampsTibbitt. The case turns upon theconstruction and
effect to be given to the following clause of that instrument:
"All the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, both real
'
and personal,,of what -kind'hndnatu!4re ev6e
, 1 giv6, devise,
and bequeath to my son, Richard Tibbitt, during his natural
life, and after his death to his issue, by him lawfully begotten
of his body, to such issue, their heirs and assigns forever. In
case my son, :Richard Tibbitt;, shall, die without lawful issue,
then, in that case, to my wife, Elizabeth Tibbitt, and my sister,
Sarah heath,, and, my sister, Rebeeca Mull, during the natural
life of ea'eh of' then/, an'd to the survivor of them, 'and, after the
death'of all of thom' o Jiames IWhartenby, sob of Thomas Whartenby, of the city of Philadelphia,'to him the sdid'James1hVbary, his heirs 'and assigns forever. In case te, said James
Whartenby shall, die before my son, Richard Tibbitt, my wife,
Elizabeth, my sister;,Sarah Heath., and my sister;.Rebecca Mull,
then, and in that case,,to'Samuel Stevenson; soin of'Philip, and
to Ricb;afd Whartenby, son of John, each, two huhdr:ed dollars
shall bepid out of miy estate, and the rest and remainder to
,'illiarn Whartenby, Thomas Whartenby" and John Whartenby,
children of said Thomas Whartenby, of Philadelphia, to them
and their' heirs and assigns forever)'
"Ribhrd' Tibbitt, -the first devi§e1, oi the '14th of 'May,
1853, after the death of,:the testator, conveyed the premises

Oct. 1873.]

DANIEL V. WHARTENBY.
Opinion of the court.

to Jacob Hazel, who, on the same day, reconveyed to Richard.
Richard died in April, 1863, withoht issue, not having married. Elizabeth Tibbitt, the widow of the testator, and his
two sisters, Sarah Heath and Rebecca Mull, were living at
the time of the making of the will, survived the testator,
and died before the commencement of this suit. James
Whartenby, the devisee in remainder, and the next in succession, is still living, and is the defendant in error in this
case. The plaintiffs in error claim title by virtue of a sale
under a judgment and execution against Richard Tibbitt.
The rule in Shelley's case is in force in Delaware, and an
estate tail may be barred there by such a conveyance as that
by Richard to Hazel.
Under the law of descents of Delaware all the children
share alike-descendants from them taking per stirpes.
The question before us is whether the estate given to
Richard, the first taker, was an estate in fee-tail, or whether
he took only an estate for life, with remainder in fee to the
issue of his body, contingent upon the birth of such issue,
-and, in default of such issue, remainder for life to his widow
and two sisters, with remainder over in fee after their death
to James Whartenby, the defendant in error.
It is insisted by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error that
the words "issue of his body by him lawfully begotten." in
the devise, are words of limitation and not of purchase, and
that the rule in Shelley's case applies.
For the defendant in error it is maintained that those
words are the synonym of children, and must have the same
legal effect as if that phrase had been used by the testator
instead of those found in the devise; that under the circumstances they are words of purchase, and that the rule in
,I
Shelley's case has, therefore, no application.
That rule is thus laid down by Lord Coke: "Where the
ancestor, by any gift or conveyance taketh an estate of freehold, and in the same instrument an estate is limited, either
mediately or immediately, to his heirs in fee or in fee-tail,
the heirs are words of limitation of the estate, and not of
VOL. Xvii.

41

DANIEL V. WHARTENBY.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

purchase."
An eminent English authority gives this definition, as abridged by Chancellor Kent. The chancellor
pronounces it accurate. "Where a person takes an estate
of freehold, legally or equitably, under 'a deed, or -will, or
other writing, and in the same instrument there is a limitation by way of remainder, eithe.r with or without the interposition of another estate, of any interest of the same legal
or equitable quality to his heirs, or heirs of his body, as a
class of persons to take in succession from generation to
generation, the limitation to the heirs entitles the. ancestor
to the whole estate."t
The rule is much older than Shelley's case. In that case
several judgments in the Year-Books in the time of Edward
Ill are cited in support of it. Blackstone found it recognized in a case adjudged in 18th Edward II.t Some writers
trace its origin. to the feudal system, which favors th6 takihig
of estates by descent rather than by purchase, because in
the former case. the. rights of wardship, marriage, relief, and
other feudal incidents attached, while in the latter the taker
was relieved fromthose burdens. Others attribute it to the
aversion of the common law to fees in abeyance, a desire to
promote the transferability of real property, and, as far as
possible, to make it liable for the specialty debts of the" ancestor. The subject is one of curious and learned speculation rather thani of any practical consequence.
Although the rule has beeu an undisputed canon of the
English common law for more than five centuries it has been
abolished in most of the-States in our Union, and where it
still obtains, questions relating to it are of unfrequent occurrence.
In considering it with reference to the present case a few
cardinal principles, as well settled ag the rule itself, must be
kept in view.
In construing wills, where the question of its application
arises, the intention of the testator must be fully carried, out,
4

- 1 Preston on Estates, 2683, 419; 4 Kent, 245.
1 Reports, 104.
Hargrave's Law Tracts, 501.

Oct. 1873.]

DANIEL V. 'WHARTENBY.
Opinion of the court.

so far as it can be done consisteitly ;with, the rules of law,
but no further.* The meaning of this is that if the testator
has i-i-e technical language, which brings the case within
the rtle, a declaration, however positive, that the rule shall
not apply, or that the estate of the ancestor shall not continue beyond the primary express limitation, or that his
heirs slhall take by purchase and not by descent, will be unavailing to exclude the rule and cannot affect the result.t
But if there a'e explanatory and qualifying expressions, from
which it appears that the import of the technical language
is contrary to the clear and plain intent of the testator, the
former must yield and the latter will prevail.T The rule is
one of property and not of construction.§
While the rule is held to apply as well to wills as to deeds,
the words isue of his body are more flexible than the words
hdrs of his body, and courts more readily interpret the former
as the synonym of children, and a mere descriptiopersonarum,
than the latter. "The word issue is not ex vi ternini within
the rule in Shelley's case. It depends upon the context
whether it will give an estate tail to the ancestof."
Where there is a devise like this, if the rule in Shelley's
case applies, the estate, upon the death of the first taker,
goes, according to the English common-law rule of descent,
to the eldest son, to the exclusion of all the other children.1
But if to the gift in remainder there are'superadded words
of limitation which change this course of descent, the rule in
Shelley's case does not apply and the children take by purchase.**
It remains to examine the case before us in the light of
these considerations.
t Ib.; 2 Jarman on Wills, 311, 313.
$ Hargrave's Law Tracts, 495; Wild's Case, 6 Reports, 16; Doe v. Laming, 2 Burrow, 1100; Lees v. Mosley, 1 Younge & Collyer (Exch.), 589;
Bagshaw v. Spencer, 1 Vesey, 142.
Ted's Leading Cases on Real Property, 483..
ff Sisson v. Seabury, 1 Sumner, 244.
1 Preston on Estates, 379..
Shelley's Case, Tod's Leading Cases on Real Property, 493; Montgomery v. Montgomery, 3 Jones & Latouch, 47; Doe d. Bosnall v. Harvey,
4 Barnewall & Cresswell, 610.
* Hargrave's Law Tracts, 489.

644

DANIEL V."WHAR TENBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The estate is given to Richard, the first taker, "during his
naturallife."
Lord Chancellor Sugden says these words "are, I think,
entitled to weight, although when the intention requires it
they may be wholly rejected."*
The estate is given, "after his death, to his issue by him
lawfully begotten of his body." These must necessarily have
been his children. They could not have been otherwise. It
will do no violence, either to the language here used or to
the context, if this clause be regarded as if the testator bad
substituted the latter words for the former in framing this
part of the instrument. If this had been done there could
have been no controversy between these parties.t The
words of inheritance which follow are, "to such issue, their
heirs and assigns, forever." These are the usual and largest
terms enployed in the creation of a fee simple estate. A
descent of the prope'ty, to satisfy them, -must be according
to the law of inheritance of the State of Delaware with fespect to fee simple property. Such would be the inevitable
result, apd such clearly was the intention of the deviso'.
This would be an entire departure frbm the course of descent which must, necessarily follow'from the rule in Shelley's case, 'if that rule were .to control the transmission of
the inheritance. The descent prescribed is to be, not from
Richard, but -from hi s issue. The language of the testitor
is too explicit to leave any room for-doubt upon the subject.
In Montgomery v. l ontgomery,' before referred to,J the
chancellor said: "It appears to be clearly settled that Etdevise to A.'for life, with remainder to his issue, with superadded words of limitation in a manner.inconsistent with the
descent from A., will give the word issue the operation of a
word of, purchase. This is established by a -series of cases,
*Montgomery v. Montgomery, 3.Jones & Latouch, 61; see, also, Archer's
Case, 1 Coke, 67; Clerk v. Day, Cro. Eliz., 313; Wild's Case,' supra; Doe
v. Collis, 4 Terih, ,294; 'Ginger- v.White, Willes, 348.
4 I-fwre Sandersi,4TFaige, 293; Rogers v. -Rogers, 3 Wendell, 503, Chrystie v.Phyfe;,19 New York, 844;, Wild's Case, 6 Reports, 17.
38 Jones & Latouch, 61.

Oct. 1873.]

DANIEL V. WHARTENBY.
Opinion of the court.

from Doe d. Cooper v. Collis,* to Greenwood v. IRothwell."t
Issue is either a word of purchase or limitation, as will best
effectuate the devisor's intention.•
The next clause is: "In case my said son, Richard Tibbitt,
shall die without lawful issue, then, and in that case, to my
wife, Elizabeth Tibbitt, my'sister Sarah Heath, and my
sister, Rebecca Mull, during the natural life of each of them,
and to the survivors of them; and, after the death of all of
them, to James Whartenby, son of Thomas Whartenby, of
the city of Philadelphia, to him, the said James Whartenby,
his heirs and assigns forever."
These are substitutionary devises, both contingent upon
the death of Richard without issue. In that event, an estate
for life was given to the widow and two sisters, and a remainder in .fee to James Whartenby. That such was the
quantity and quality of these estates, if Richard was not a
donee in tail, cannot be doubted.
Finally, the devisor declares, that "in case the said James
Whartenby shall die before my son, Richard Tibbitt, my
wife, Elizabeth, my sister, Sarah Heath, and my sister, Rebecca Mull, then, and in that case, to Samuel Stevenson, soil
of Philip, and Richard Whartenby, son of John, each two
hundred dollars shall be paid out of my estate, and the rest
and remainder to William Whartenby, Thomas Whartenby,
and John Whartenby, children of the said Thomas Whar.
tenby, of Philadelphia, to them and their heirs and assigns."
The language used with reference to the devisees last
named was sufficient, if the devise had tpken effect, to give
them a fee simple- estate. That language, as well as the
fact that thera was no further devise over, leads necessarily
to the conlusion that such was the purpose of the testator.
In describing the estate given to Richard, and that given
to the widow and two sisters, in the contihgencies specified,
the terms of the devise in each case are the same. They
are, during the natural life of each devisee. So, as to the
4 Term, 294.
Doe -. Collis, 4 Term, 294.

t 6 Scott's New Reports, 670.

646

DANIEL V. WARTENBY..

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

estate given to the issue of Richard, if any should survive
him; the estate given to James Wharteuby, in default of
such issue; and tlhat given contingently to the three devisees last named, the same language is employed in each
case. The devise is to them, their heirs and assigns forever.
Why should a different effect be given to the same Ian*guage when applied to different persons in the same class?
*If the widow and two sisters could take umder that employed as to them only an estate for life,'why should Richard
take more? And if James Whartetiby and the tbree lastnamed devisees could take a fee simple, whicl, laying out
of view the deed to Hazel, no one questions, why not the
issue of'Richard, if such issue had been born and survived
him? The identity of the language and the aptness of the
terms employediudicate the meaning and purpose of the
testator in each case.
The theory that only a life estate was intended to be given
to Richard, derives further support from the solicitude mani
fested by the testator, that whatever Richard might take
under the will should not be subjected to the payment of
the liability he. hact incurred as the surety of his brother.
In that event the testator declares that "all the right of the
said Richard shall cease and determine as fully as though he
were dead, and that no purchaser shall have any right, titlei
or claim thereby to any part of my estate so sold."
It canndt reasonably be supposed that the testator intendedto give Richard a fee, which even with his consent might
be "so sold," and if he had children, thus cul them off and
.transfer the estate out of the family; and if he left no issue,
defeat th e rest of the scheme of the will. These results
could be guarded. against only by giving a life estate to
Richard, and nothing more.
In this class 'of cases in the English courts the doctrine
of Shelley's case is applied unless there are circumstances
which clearly take the devise out of that rule. Every doubt
is resolved in favor of its application. Here, We think, the
tendency should be otherwise.
There, the rule is in accordance with the established law

Oct. 1873.]

DANIEL V. WHARTENBY.

Opinion of the court.

of descent-the general sentiment of the people-their public policy and the spirit-of their institutions. It helps to
conserve the power and splendor of the ruling classes, by
keeping property in the line of descent which the rule prescribes.
Our policy is equality of descent and distribution. Such
is the sentiment of our people, and such the spirit of our
institutions.
This is manifested by the statutes of descent and distribution which exist in all our States and Territories.
We entertain no doubt that the testator intended to give
a life estate only to Richard, and a fee simple to his issue,
and that they should be the springhead of a new and independent stream of descents. We find nothing in the law of
the case which prevents our giving effect to that intent.
We hold that the rule in. Shelley's case, for the reasons
stated, does not apply. The estate given to the children of
Richard was a contingent remainder. Upon the birth of
the first child it would have vested, but subject to open and
let in after-born children. The devise to Richard and his
issue disposed of the entire estate. The devises over to the
widow and testator's two sisters, and to James Whartenby;
were executory devises. Upon the death of Richard, with
the possibility of issue extinct, the devise to James became
a remainder in fee simple vested at once in interest, but deferred as to the period of enjoyment until the termination
of the intermediate life estates.*
Numerous authorities have been cited on both sides. We
have examined them and many others. It is impossible to
reconcile the conflict which they present. Lord Chancellor
Sugden said no one could do it.t No controlling principle
caii be deduced from them.
The conclusion at which we have arrived is sustained by
many well-considered cases, both English and American.
* Doe v. Howell, 10 Barnewall & Cresswell, 196; Doe v. Howell, 5 Manning & Ryland, 24.
t Montgomery v. Montgomery, 3 Jones & Latouch, 50.

648

WALKER V. STATE HARBOR CoMMtssIoNERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We think that the learned judge who tried the case below
instructed ,the jury correctly.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WALKER v.

THE

STATE HARBOR COMMISSIONERS.

In the construction of the statutes of a State, and especially those affecting
titles to real property, where no Federal question arises, this court follows the adjudications of the highest court of the State. Its interpretation is accepted as the true interpretation, whatever may be the opinion
of this court of its original soundness. So held in a case where the Supreme Court of California had construed the terms " tide lands," used
in a statute of that State, as applying only to lands covered and uncovered by the tides, and as not including lands permanently submerged by
the waters of the bay of Sarn Francisco.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the Un-ited States for the
District of California.
Walker brought an action of ejectment against Marks
and others, the Board of State Harbor Commissioners, for
certain real property situated within the limits of the city
of San Fraicisco, State of California. The case, which was
tried by the court without a jury, by cbnsent of parties, arose
as follows:
In March, 1851, the legislature of the State of California
granted to the city of San Francisco au estate for ninetynine years in certain lands covered by the tide-waters of the
bay of San Francisco, situated within a designated line, described according to a map on record in the recorder's office
of the county, anid declared that the line thus designated
should "be and remain a permanent water-front" of the
city, reserving at the same time to the State the right to
regulate the construction of wharves and other improvements beyond the line, so that they should not interfere
with the shipping and commercial interests of the city and
harbor.

