168

UNITED STATES V. COOK.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V.

COOK.

1. Where a statute defining an offence contains an exception, in the enacting
clause of the statute, which is so incorporated with the language defining the offence, that the ingredients of the offence cannot be accurately.
and clearly described if the exception is omitted, an indictment founded
upon the statute must allege enough to show that the accused is not
within the exception. But if the language of the section defining the
offence is so entirely separable from the exception, that the ingredients
constituting the offence may be accurately and clearly defined without
any reference to the exception, the indictment may omit any such reference. The matter contained in the exception is matter, of defence, and
to be shown by the accused.
2. No exception or proviso of any kind is contained in the act of Congress
of August 6th, 1846 (9 Stat. at Large, 63), making a paymaster in the
army who embezzles public money, guilty of felony.
3. Therefore, a statute of limitations cannot be taken advantage of by demurrer.
4. The 82d section of the act of April 30th, 1790 (sometimes called the
Crimes Act), enacts the only limitation applicable to the offence of a
paymaster of the army, indicted for embezzling the public money.
ONl certificate of division of opinion of the judges of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Ohio; the case
being thus:

The 16th section of the act of August 6th, 1846,* enacts:
11That all officers and other persons charged... with the safekeeping, transfer, and disbursement of the.public moneys...
are hereby required to keep an accurate entry of each sum received, and of each payment or transfer ; and that if any one
of said officers.. shall convert to his own use ... any portion of
the public moneys intrusted to him for safe-keeping, disbursement, or transfer, ... every such act shall be deemed to be an
embezzlement of so much of the said moneys as shall be thus...
converted, ... which is hereby declared a felony;... and any
officer or agent of the United States convicted thereof shall be
sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than six months,
nor more than ten years, and to a fine equal to the amount of
.

the money embezzled."
* 9 Stat. at Large, 63.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

COOK.

Statement of the case.

The 32d sectiod of an act of April 30th, 1790,*- entitled
"An act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States," thus enacts:
"No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offence not capital, unless the indictment or information for the
same shall be found or instituted within two years from the time
of committing the offence, &c. Provided that nothing herein
contained shall extend to any person or persons fleeing from
justice."
The 3d section of an act of 1804,t entitled "An act in addition to the act entitled," &c. (as above), thus further enacts:
" Any person or persons guilty of any crime arising under the
revenue laws of the United States.. i may be prosecuted, tried,
and punished, provided the indictment... be found at any time
,withinfive years after committing the offence, any law or -provision
to the contrary notwithstanding."
These statutes being in force, one Cook was indicted in
the court below at October Term, 1864, for the embezzlement of funds held by him as paymaster in the army of the
United States.
The indictment was filed on the 1st of November, 1864;
and the first five counts charged acts of embezzlement on
the 1st of May, the 6th of July, the 15th of October, the
12th of September, and the 20&th of September, in the year
1862.
The defendant demurred to these counts, because it appeared upon the face of them, severally, that the crime
charged was committed more than two years before the finding and filing of the indictment, and that the prosecution
therefor was, before the finding and filing of the indictment,
barred by the statute in such cases made and provided.
Three questions now arose on which the judges were opposed in opinion, and which they accordingly certified for
answers by this court:
First. Whether it was competent -forthe defendant to take
* I Stat. at Large, 119.

t2

Id. 290.

Th ITED STATES V. CooK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the prisoner.

exception, by deinurrer, to the. sufficiency of the first five
counts of the indictment for the causes assigned.
Second. Whether the said five counts, or either of them,
allege or charge, upon their face, any crirme or offence against
the defendant for which he is liable in law to be put upon
trial, convicted, and punished.*
Third. Whether the 32d section of the qct of 1790, sometimes called the Crimes Act, applied.to the case, and limited
the time within which all indictment must be found for such
an 6ffeuce, or whether in regard to the period of limitation,
within which an indictment was to be found, the case was
governed by the act of 1804, or any other act limiting the
prosecution of offences charged in the said five counts.
Messrs. Hunter, .Kebler, and Whitman, for the prisoner:
1. The demurrer should be sustained.
In all prosecutions for crime, the indictment must, upon its
face, show that the defendant is charged with a crime, lie
is called to answer to the charge alleged against him, and to
nothing else. And it follows if the indictment upon which a
party is charged, do not, upon its face, in terms, embody a
charge of crime, it is the duty of the court, at any stage of
the prosecution, and in any form whatever in which the
want of such charge or allegation slill be brought to its
notice, to desist from further exercising its jurisdictioh over
the defendant. This defect of the indictment may be shown,
on motion to quash, or on "demurrer,or it may be noted by
the court, suO sponte. On principle the inability of the court
to proceed extends to all classes of defects, whether in the
substance of the act alleged as crime, not being such in law;
or by reason of exemption of the defendant, by law, froia
prosecution under the facts alleged against him. It is not
the fact, but the allegation-the charge in the indictment, that
gives jurisdiction. If, taking the fact as charged, no crime
* Both of these questions were presented in the record as one, but as this
court in its consideration of the matter divided the question into two parts,
it is so here divided.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. Coos.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

for which the defendant is liable, under the law, to be prosecuted, tried, and punished is charged, does it matter what
the reason is?
There is, no doubt, some aiversity of opinion on the subject, iii criminal practice, in respect to the manner in which
this defence of limitation may be taken advantage of, but
there surely need not be any delicacy or hesitation about requiring the prosecution, prizn facie, to bring itself by proper
allegations within the law, so far as to show a primd facie
case of crime, legally punishable under the law. Numerous
cases,* including Commonwealth v. _Rzffner,t and .Hatwood v.
The Slate,T affirm this view.

2. The limiation of the act of 1790, and not that of the act of
1804, or any other, governs the case.
A. paymaster, or an additional paymaster in the army, intrusted with the funds of the government to be disbursed in
the time of war, in the payment of the soldiers in the field,
is not in any proper sense, or in any recognized acceptation
of terms, in their practical or legal sense, a revenue officer.
Ir. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General, and Mr. C. ff. till,
Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Officers and other persons charged with the safe-keeping,
transfer, and disbursement of the public moneys, are required by an act of Congress to keep an accurate entry of
each sum received, and of each payment or transfer; and
the sixteenth section of the same act provides that if any one
of the said officers shall convert to his own use, in any -%,ay
whatever, any portion of the public moneys, intrusted to
him for safe-keeping, disbursement, or transfer, or for any
other purpose, every such act shall be deemed and adjudged
to be embezzlement of so much of the public moneys as
" State v. Bryan, 19 Louisiana Annual, 435; United States v Watkins, 3
Cranch's Circuit Court, 441, 442, 550; People v. Miller, 12 California, 291;
McLane v. State, 4 Georgia, 835; People v. Santvoord, 9 Cowan, 655.
* 18 Indiana. 492.
t 28 Pennsylvania State, 259.

UNITED STATES V. COOK.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

shall be thus taken and converted, which is therein declared
to be a felony; and the same section also provides, that all
persons advising or participating in such act, being convicted thereof before any court of the United States of competent jurisdiction, shall be punished as therein provided.*
Founded on that provision, the indictment in this case
contained six counts, charging that the defendant, as paymaster in the army, had in his custody for safe-keeping and
disbursement, a large sum of public nioney, intrusted to him
ii- his official character as an additional paymaster in the
arli , and that he, on the respective days therein alleged,
did unlawfully, knowingly, and feloniously embezzle and
convert the same to his own use. Such conversion is alleged
in the first count, on the Ist of May, 1862, in the second on
the 6th of July, in the third on the 16th of October, in the
fourth on the 12th of September, in the fifth on the 20th of
September, and in the sixth on the 15th of November, all in
the same year. Service was made, and the defendant appeared and demurred to the first five counts, showing for
cause, that it appears on the face of the indictment, and by
the allegations of the said everal counts, that the crime
charged against him was committed more than two years before the indictment was found, and filed in court.
Three questions were presented by tle demurrer for the
decision of the court, upon which the opinions of the judges
were opposed, in substance and effect as follows: (1.) Whether it was competent for the defendant to take exception,
by demurrer, to the sufficiency of the first five counts of the
indictment for the causes assigned. (2.) Whether the said
five counts, or either of them, allege or charge, upon their
face, any crime or offence against the defendant for which
he is liable in law to be put upon trial, convicted, and punished. Both.of those questions are presented in the record
as one, but inasmuch as the answers to them must be different, it is more convenient to divide the question into two
parts. (3.) Whether the thirty-second section of the Crimes
* 9 Stat. at Large, 63.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V.

COOK.

Opinion of the court.

Act applies to the case, and limits the time within which an
indictment must be found for such an offence.*
Forgery of public securities was made a capital felony by
that act, as well as treason, piracy, and murder, and the
thirty-second section of the act provides that no person shall
be prosecuted, tried, or punished for treason or other capital
felony, wilful murder or forgery excepted, unless the indictment for the same shall be found by the grand jury within
three years next after the treason or capital offence shall be
done or coromitted.t
Provision is also made by the succeeding clause of the
same section, that no person shall be prosecuted, tried, or
-punished for any offence, not capital, unless the indictment
for the same shall be found within two years from the time
of committing the offence. Fines and penalties, under any
penal statute, were also included in the same limitation, but
that part of the clause having been superseded by a subsequent enactment, it is omitted.1
Appended to the thirty-second section, enacting the limitation under consideration, is the following proviso: Provided that nothing herein contained shall extend to any person or persons fleeina from.justice.ยง
Where a statute defining an offence contains an exception,
in the enacting clause of the statute, which is so incorporated
with the language defining the offence that the ingredients
of the offence cannot be accurately and clearly described if
the exception is omitted, the -rules of good pleading require
that an indictment founded upon the statute must allege
enough to show that the accused is not within the exception,
but if the language of the section defining the offence is so
entirely separable from the exception that the ingredients
constituting the offence may be accurately and clearly defined without any reference to the exception, the pleader
may safely omit any such reference, as the matter contained
1 Stat. at Large, 119.
5 Id. 322; Stimpson v. Pond, 2 Curtis, 502.
1 Stat. at Large, 119.

t lb.

UNITED

STATES V. COOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the exception is matter of defence and must be shown by
the accused.*
,Ofleaces created by-statute, as well as offences at common
law, must be accurately and clearly described in an indictment, and if they cannot be, in any case, without an allegation that the accused is not within an exception contained
in the statute defining the offbnce, it is clear that no indictment founded upon the statute can be a good one which
does not contain such an allegation, as it is universally true
that no indictment is sufficient if it does n'ot accurately and
clearly allege all the ingredients of which the offence is
composed.t
With' rare exceptions, offences consist of more than one
ingredient, and in some cases of many, and the rule is universal that every ingredient of which the offince is composed must be accurately and clearly alleged in the indictment, or the 'indictment will be bad, and may be quashed
on motion, or the judgment may be arrested, or be reversed
on error.1
Text-writers and courts of justice have sometimes said,
that if the exception is in the enacting clause, the 'party
pleading must show that the accused is not within the exception, but where the exception is in a subsequent section
or statute, that the matter contained in the exception is
matter of defence and must be shown by the accused. Undoubtedly that rule will frequently hold good, and in many
cases prove to be 'a safe guide in pleading, but it is clear
that it is not a universal criterion, as the words of the statute
defining the offence may be so entirely separable from the
exception that all the ingredients' constituting the offence
may be accurately aidalclearly alleged without any reference
to the exception.ยง
Cases have also arisen, and others -may readily be supSteel v. Smith, 1 Barnewall & Alderson, 99; Archbold's Criminal
Pleading, 15th ed. 54.
t 1ex v. Mason, 2 Term, 681.
Archboil's Criminal Pleading, 15th ed. 54.
Commonwealth v. Hart, 11 Cushing, 132,

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. COOK.

Opinion of the court.

posed, where tlie exception, though in a subsequent 6lause
or section, or even in a's-ubsequent statute, is nevertheless
clothed in such language, and is so incorporated' as an
amendment with the words antecedently employed to define
the off-nce, that it would be impossible to frame the actual
statutory charge in the form of an indictment with accuracy,
and the required certainty, without an allegation showing
that the accused was not within the exception contained in
the subsequent clause, section,, or statute. Obviously such
an exception must be pleaded, as otherwise the indictment
would not present the actual statutory accusation, and would
also be defective for the want of clearness and certainty.*
Support to these views is found in many cases where the
precise point was well considered. Much consideration-was
given to the subject in the case of Commonwealth v. lart,t
where it is said that the rule of pleading a statute which
contains an exception is the same as that applied in pleading
a private instrument of contract, that if such an instrument
contains in it, first, a general clause, and afterwards a separate and distinct clause which has the effect of taking out
of the general clause something that otherwise would be included in it, a party relying upon the general clause in plead.
ing, may set out that clause only, without noticing, the separate and distinct clause which operates as an exception, but
if the exception itself is incorporatedin the general clause then
the party relying on "the general clause must, in pleading,
state the general clause together with the exception," which
appears to be correct, but the reasons assigned for the alternative branch of the rule are not quite Satisfactory, as they
appear to overlook the important fact in the supposed case
that the exception itself is supposed to be incorporated in
the general clause.
Where the exception itself is incorporated in the general
clause, as is supposed in the alternative rule there laid down,
then it is correct to say, whether speaking of a stafute or
* State v. Abbey, 29 Vermont, 66; 1 Bishop's Criminal Proceedings, 2d
ed., 639, n. 3.
t 11 Cushing, 130.

UNITED STATES V.

COO.

[Si p. or.

Opinion of the court.

private contract, that unless the exception 'in the general
clause is negatived in pleading the clause, no offence, o;r no
cause of action, will appear in the indictment or' declaration
when compared with the sthtute or contract, but when the
exception or proviso is in a subsequent substantive clause,
the case contemplated in the enacting or general clause may
be fully stated without negativing the exception or proviso,
as a prima facie case is stated, and it is for thd party for
whom matter of excuse is furnished by the statute or contract to bring it forward in his defenfce.
Commentators and judges have sometimes been led into
error by supposing that the words "enacting clause," as
frequently employed, mean the section of the statute defining the offence, as contradistinguished from a subsequent
section in the same statute, which is a misapprehension of
the term, as the only real question in the case is whether
the exception is so incorporated with the substance of the
clause defining the offence as to constitute a material part
of tle description of the acts, omission, or other ingredients
which constitute the offence.. Such an offence must be accurately and clearly described, and if the exception is so incorporated with the clause describing the offence that it becomes in fact a part.of the description, then it cannot be
omitted in the pleading, but if it is not so incorporated with
the clause defining the offeimce as to beco'me a material part
of the definition of the offince, then it is matter of defence
and must be shown by the other party, though it be in the
same section or even in the succeeding sentence.*
Both branches of the rule are correctly stated in the case
of Steel v. Snith,t which was a suit for a penalty, and may
perhaps be regarded as the leading case upon the subject.
Separate opinions were given by the judges, but they were
unanimous iii the conclusion, which is stated as follows by
the reporter: "Where an ait of Parliament in the enacting
2 Leading Criminal Cases, 2d ed. 12; 'avasour v. Ormrod, 9 Dowling
& Ryland, 599; Spieres v. Parker, 1 Term, 141; Commonwealth v. Bean 14
Gray, 53; 1 Starkie's Criminal Pleading, 246.
-i 1 Barnewall & Alderson, 99.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. OOK.
Opinion of the court.

clause creates an offence and gives a penalty, and in the
same section there follows a proviso containing an exemption which is not incorporatedin the enacting,clause by any words
of reference, it is nQt necessary for the plaintiff in suing for
the penalty-to negative such proviso in his declaration." All
of the judges concurred in that view, and Bayley, J., remarked that where there is an exception so incorporated
with the enacting clause that the one cannot be read without
the other, there the exception must be negatived.
Doubtless there is a technical distinction between an exception and a proviso, as an exception ought to be of that
which would oth&rwise be included in.the category from
which it is excepted, and the office of a proviso is either'to
except something from the enacting clause or to qualify or
restrain its generality, oreio exclude some ground of misinterpretatio'n of it, s extending to cases not intended to be
brought within its operation, but there are a great many .examples where the distinction is disregarded and where the
words are used as if they we'e of the same signification.*
Few better guides"hpon the general subject can be found
than the one given at a very early period, by Treby, 0. J.,
in Jones v. Axent in.which he said, the diffrence is that
where an exception is ificorporated in the body of the clause
he who pleads the clause ought also to plead the exception,
but when there is a clause fo'r the benefit of the pleader,
and afterwards follows a proviso which is against him, he
shall plead the clause and leave it to the adversary to show
the proviso; which is substantially the same rule in both its
branches as that given at A much more recent period in the
case of Steel v. Smith, which received the unanimous- concurrence of the judges of the court by which it was promulgated.
Apply those rules to the case before the court, and all difficulty-is removed in answering the questions for decision.
Neither an exception nor a proviso of any kind is contained
.Gtfrly v. Gurly, 8 Clarke & Finelly,.764; Minis v. United States, 15
Peters, 445; Stephen on Pleading, 9th Am. ed. 443._
t1 Lord Raymond, 120.

VOL. XV11.

12

178

UITED STATES V. CooK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the act of Congress 'defining the offence, and every ingredient of the offence therein definied is accurately and
clearly described in the indictment. Nfothing different is
pretended by the defendant, but the contention is that the
demurrer does .not admit the force and effect of these
allegations, because. another act of Congress provides that
no person shall be-prQsecuted, tried, or convicted of the
offence unless the indictment for the same shall be found
within two years from the time of committing the offence.
Argument to show that a demurrer to an indictment adinits every matter of fact which is well pleaded is unnecessary, as the proposition is not denied, and inasmuch as the
-offence is well alleged in each of the counts to which the
-demurrer applies,- it is difficult to see, upon what ground it
can be contended that the defendant may, by demurrer, set
up the statute of limitations as a defence, it appearing beyond all doubt that the act defining the offence contains
fneither an exception nor a proviso of any kind.
Tested by the principles herein suggested it is quite clear
that such a theory cannot be supported, but it must be admitted that decided cases are referred to which not only
'countenance that view, but adjudge it to be correct. Some
of the cases, however, admit that the judgment cannot be
arrested for such a defect, if it appears that the statute of
limitations contains any exception, as the presumption in
that state of the case would be that evidence was introduced
.at the trial which brought the defendant within some one
.of the exceptions.-*
,Obviously-the supposed error, if it be one, could. not be
,corrected by a motion in arrest, for the reason suggested in
.those vases, and i is quite as difficult to understand the reason of the rule which affirms that a demurrer will work any
such result, as it cannot be admitted that a demurrer is a
.proper pleading where it will have the effect to shut out
,evidence properly admissible under the general issue to reState v. Hobbs, 39 Maine, 212; People .v. Santvoord, .9 Cowen, 660;
:State ut Rust, 8 .Blackford, .195.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. CooK.
Opinion of the court.

but the presumption of the supposed defect it was filed to
correct.
Suppose that is so, then it clearly follows that the demurrer ought not to be sustained in this case, as the statute of
limitations in question contains an exception, and it may be
that the prosecutor, if the defendant is put to trial under
the general issue, will be able to introduce evidence to show
that he, the defendant, is within that exception. Although
the reasons given for that conclusion appear to be persuasive
and convincing, still it is true that there are decided cases
which support the opposite rule and which affirm that the
prosecutor must so frame the indictment as to bring the
offence within the period specified in the statute of limitations, or the defendant may demur, move in arrest of judgment, or bring error.*
Sometimes it is argued that the case of Commonwealth v.
Rtuffne',t and Halwood v. The Stale,. adopt the same rule,
but it is clear that neither of those cases supports any such
proposition. Instead of that they both decide that it is not
necessary to plead the statute of limitations in criminal
cases; that the defendant may give it in evidence under the
general issue, which undoubtedly is correct, as it affords the
prosecutor an opportunity, where the statute contains exceptions, to introduce rebutting evidence and bring the defendant within one of the exceptions.
Accused persons may avail themselves of the statute of
limitations by special plea or by evidence under the general
issue, but courts of justice, if the statute contains exceptions,
will not quash an indictment because it appears upon its
face that it was not found within the period prescribed in
the limitation, as such a proceeding would deprive the prosecutor of the right to reply or give evidence, as the case
may be, that the defendant fled from justice and was within
* State v. Bryan, 19 Louisiana Annual, 435; United States v. Watkins,
3 Cranch, Circuit Court, 550; People v. Miller, 12 California, 294; McLane
v. The State, 4 Georgia, 340.
: 18 Indiana, 492.
j 28 Pennsylvania State, 260.

UNITED STATES V. COOK.

S
[Sup.
Ot

Opinion of the court.

the exception.* Nor is it admitted that any different rule
would apply in the case even if the statute of limitations did
not contain any exception, as time is not of the essence of
the offence; and also for the reason that the effect of the
demurrer, if sustained, would be to preclude the prosecutor
from giving evidence, as he would have a right to do, under
the general issue, to show that the offence was committed
within two years next before the indictment was found and
filed.
Examples are given by commentators which serve to illus-'
trate the general doctrine even better than some judicial
opinions. No mariner, it was enacted, who was serving on
board any privateer employed in certain British colonies,
should be liable to be impressed unless it -appeared that he
had previously deserted from an English ship of war, and
the act provided that any officer who should impress such a
mariner should be liable to a penalty of fifty, dollars. 'Judgment was arrested in an action brought for tb penalty there
imposed, because. the declaration did not allege that the
mariner had not previously deserted, as that, circumstance
entered into the very description of the offence and constituted a part of the transaction made penal by the statute.t
Labor and travelling on the Lord's day, except from necessity and charity, are forbidden in some States by statute,
which also furnishes an example where the exception is a
constituent part of the offence; as it is not labor and travelling, merely, which are prohibited, but it"nnecessary labor and
travelling, or labor and travelling not requiredfor charily.t
Innkeepers are also prohibited by statute, in some jurisdictions, to entertain on the Lord's day, persons, not lodgers
in the inn, if resident in the town where the inn is kept,
and an indictment founded on that statute was held to be
bad, because it did not aver that the persons .entertained
'United States v. White, 5 Cranch, Circuit Court, 60; State v. Howard,
15 Richardson (South Carolina), 282.
t Spieres v. Parker, 1 Term, 141.
1 State v. Barker, 18 Vermont, 195.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. COOK.
Opinion of the court.

were not lodgers, as it is clear that that circumstance was
an ingredient of the offence.*
So an English statute made it penal for any person, not
employed in the public mint, to make or mend any instrumeat used for coining, and it was held that the indictment
must negative the want of authority, as that *clause was a
part of the description of the offence.t
Equally instructive examples are also given by commentators, to show that nothing of the kind is required where
the exception is not incorporated with the clause defining
the offence, nor connected with it in any manner by words
of reference, as in such cases it is not a constituent part of
the offence, but is a matter of defence and must be pleaded
or given in evidence by the accused.1
Sufficient las already been remarked to show what answer must be given to the first and second questions, which
are both contained in the first interrogatory in the recoid,
and it is only necessary to add in respect to the third, which
is numbered second in the transcript, that the only statute
of limitations applicable to the oflfene alleged in the indictment, is the one enacted in the 32d section of the original
Crimes Act, which cannot, however, avail the defendant
ifunder the demurrer filed to the indictment.
Let the following answers be certified to the Circuit
Court:
(1.) That it is not competent for the defendant to take
exception by demurrer to the first five counts of the indictment, for the cause assigned.
(2.) That the said five counts, and each of them, do allege
and charge upon their face a crime or offence against the
" Commonwealth v. Tuck, 20 Pkcring, 361.
1 East's Pleas of the Crown, 167; 2 Leading Criminal Cases, 2d edition, 9.
1 Bishop's Criminal Proceedings, 2 ed., P4405, 632, 635, 639; Steel v.
Smith, 1 Barnewall & Alderson, 99; State v. Abbey, 29 Vermont, 66; 1
American Orimina! Law, 6th ed., P4 378, 37.9; 1 Wat. Archbold's Criminal
Practice, ed. 1860, 287; Rex v. Pearce, Russell & Ryan, Crown Cases, 174;
Rex v. Robinson, lb. 821; Rex v. Baxter, 2 East's Pleas of the Crown, 781;
Same Case, 2 Leach's Crown Cases, 4th ed. 578; 1 Gabbett's Criminal Law,
283.

THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

defendant, for which he is liable in law to be.put upon trial,

convicted, and punished.
(3.) That the 82d section of the Crimes-Act enacts the
the only statute of limitation, applicable to the offence
charged against the defenidant, but that he cannot avail
himself of it under the demurrer filed to the indictment.

THE COLLECTOR V. BEGGS.
Under the 20th section of the act of July 20th, 1868, entitled. -An act imposing taxes on distilled spirits," &c., in the absence of a distiller's
having appealed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue (as under the
10th section of the act he may do), for the correction of any error made
by the assessor in fixing the "true producing capacity" of his distillery, it is lawful for the government to assess and collect, as. for a deficiency, the taxes upon the difference between the said "producing
capacity" as estimated by the assessor and the amount of spirits actually
produced by such distillery, even though the distiller have in good faith
reported and paid taxes upon his whole production, and though such
production have exceeded 80 per centum of the producing capacity aforesaid.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
The 10th section of the "Act imposing taxes on distilled
spirits," &c., approved July 20th, 1868,* enacts:
"That every assessor shall proceed at the expense of the
United States, with the aid of some competent and skilful person to be designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
to make survey of each distillery registered for the production
of spirits in his district, to estimate and determine its true producing capacity, &c., a written report of which shall be made in
triplicate, signed by the assessor and the person aiding in making the same, one copy of which shall be furnished to the distiller, one retained by the assessor, and the other immediately
transmitted to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. If the
* 15 Stat. at Large, 129.

