RAILROAD COMPANY

v.

FULLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FULLER.
A State'legislature passed in 1862 an act "in relation to the duties of railroad conipanies," enacting"lst. That each railroad company should annually, in a month named by
the act, fix its rates for the transportation of passengers and of freights
of different kinds;
2d. That it should, on the first day of the next month, cause a printed copy
of such rates to be put up at all its stations and depots, and cause a copy
to remain posted during the year;
3d. That a failure to fulfil these requirements, or the charging of a higher
rate than was posted, should subject the offending company to the payment of certain penalties prescribed.
Congress, afterwards (in 1866), by an act whose title was "An act to
facilitate commercial, postal, and military communication, between the
several States," and which recited that "the Constitution of the United
States confers upon Congress, in express terms, the power to regulate commerce among the several States ;" and goes on " Therefore,
be it enacted," &c., enacted "That every railroad company in the United
States, whose road is operated by steam. . . be, and hereby is authorized to
carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges, ferries, all passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freights, and other property on their way from any
State to another State, and to receive compen ation therefor." And enacted
further, "That Congress may at any time, alter, amend, or repeal this act."
Held, in the case of a railroad running through several States, including
that where the State enactment above mentioned had been made, that
the State enactment was but a police law, and therefore constitutional.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa; the
case being thus:
A statute of Iowa "in relation to the duties of railroad
companies," passed in 1862,* thus enacts:
"In the month of September, annually, each railroad company shall fix its rates of fare for passengers, and freights for
transportation of timber, wood, and coal, per ton, cord, or thousand feet, per mile, also, its fare and freight per mile, for transporting merchandise and articles of the first, second, third, and
fourth grades of freight.
"And- on the 1st day of October following, shall put up at
Lawg of.the Ninth General Assembly of the State of Iowa, second sec-

tion, chapter 16.9.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FULLER.

561

Statement of the case.
all the stations and depots on its road, a printed copy of such
fare and freight, and cause a copy to remain posted during the
year.
"For wilfully neglecting so to do, or for receiving higher
rates of fares or freight than those posted, the company shallforfeit not less than $100, nor more than $200, to any person
injured thereby and suing therefor."
On the 15th of June, 1866,* Congress passed ail act thus:
"An Act tofacilitateCommercial, Postal,and Military Communication
among the several States.
"Whereas, the Constitution of the United States confers upon
Congress, in express terms, the power to regulate commerce
among the several States, to establish post-roads and to raise
and support armies; therefore"SECTION 1. Be it enacted, That every railroad company in
the United States, b-hose road is operated by steam, its successors and assigns, be and is hereby authorized to carry upon
and over its road, boats, bridges, and ferries, all passengers,
troops, government supplies, mails, freight, and property.on
their way from any State to another State, and to receive compensation therefor. . . . Provided, &-c.
"SEcTION 2. Be it further enacted, That Congress may at any
time, alter, amend, or repeal this act."
These two enactments, of the State and of the 'United
States, being on the statute-books, the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company-a corporation chartered by
Illinois and having its principal lace of business at Chicago
in that State, and working a continuous line of railway from
the said Chicago, through Illinois, Iowa, and other States
(by the legislatures of which, of course, the different parts
of its road were authorized),-having posted their rates of
freight and put up a schedule or them in their office, in the
station, was transporting, in pursuance of the request of
one Fuller, certain goods of his from the said Chicago in
Illinois to a place called Marshalltown, in Iowa. Having
charged and received from Fuller, as he alleged, a higher
14 Stat, at Large, 66.
VOL. XVIr.

36

RAILROAD ComPANY v. FULLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

rate of freight than that posted, Fuller sued them in one of
the District Courts of Iowa to recover the penalty which the
Iowa enactment purported to give in such a case. The company set up, among other defences, that the said enactment
was in violation of that clause of the Constitution* which
ordains that"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations arid- among the several States."
The court in which the suit was brought and the Supreme
Court of the State on appeal from it, held that the enactment of Iowa was but a "-police regulation," and accordingly that it was valid. Judgment going accordingly the
case was now brought here.
Messrs. H. C. Henderson and B. C. Cook, for the plaintiff in
error:
Whether, if the United States had not legislated upon the
matter of "compensation " to railroad companies carrying
"freight and property on their way from any State to
another State," the enactment of Iowa would be good as
falling within the language of cases like Ex parte M1cNiel,t
Willson v. The Blackbird Cr3eek MarshCompany,J Gilman v. The
City of Philadelphia,§and othiers-in which it is said that the
States may legislatebut only until Congress sees fit to do
so-it is wholly irrelative to the present case to inquire.
For here Congress by its act of June 15th, 1866, has legislated. And there was great reason (it may be said incidentally) why at thattime Congress should legislate. Then for
the first time our railways were about to cross the Rocky
Mountains, to span the continent, and unite oceans. The
subject had now become one of National importance. Congress, aroused by the vastness of this ehterprise, saw the subjectin its true relations, commercial,postal, ani military; and
accordingly-it meant to take and did take the whole subject
under its care, for the protection and benefit of all the people
.Article 1, 8.
" 2 Peters, 260.

t 13 Wallace, 240.
Wallace, 728.
-3

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FULLER.
Argument for the railroad company.

of the United States. The act itself shows all this. Its title
is to "facilitate commercial intercourse.., among the several States." Its preamble recites that the Constitution of
the United States confers upon it (Congress), in express
terms, the power to regulate commerce between them, and,
"therefore," it enacts. Therefore it makes one unconditional
provision about compensation to railroads carrying freight
or property on its way, by steam and rail, "ffrom any State
to another State;" and there too it stops. Has not Congress then "regulated" the subject? If so, the right of the
States by any view to do the same thing has ceased. It is
unimportant that Congress while acting has not seen fit in
its regulations to.go into a great variety of details. Regulation does not necessarily consist in prescribing details, though
when they are prescribed that too is "regulation;" perhaps
What, however, is. wise regulation
not wise regulation.
must when acting on the subject
Congress
unwise,
what
and
alone decide, and it has decided. The right of the State to
regulate at all has, therefore, ceased. Yet here the State
does attempt to regulate, and not only so but to regulate in
opposition to Congress. Congress gives to the railroad company the right "to carry," and to receive compensation
"therefor;" that is to say, it gives to the company the right
to receive compensation for carrying, simply. The company is not bound, "in the month of September," to fix
"rates" or "freights," or "on the 1st day of October following," to "put up at all the stations and depots onjts
road a printed copy of such fare and freights;" and by the
legislation of Congress no one can sue the company And.recover any $100 or any $200 penalty fol-its "wilfully ifeglecting so. to 'do." Congress leaves all this matter of fixing
rates, and of announcing them, &c., to the agreement of the
parties, and the laws of trade; and would refer any party
.aggrieved by a breach of contract to the ordinary remedies
of justice. But the State comes in, and that very part of
the subject which Congress has regulated, and regulated in
one wayi it attempts to regulate, and to regulate in a different way; a way which does not "facilitate commercial in-

RAILROAD COMPANY'-D. FTLLER.

EStip. Ct.

Argument for the party suing.

tercourse among the several States," but which rather 'em
barrasses it by exposing the companies to the vexation and
odium of continual suits for penalties.
Further. As if to withdraw the whole matter'in terms.
from being interfered with by State legislation, the act of
the National legislature says expressly:
"That Congressmay at any time alter, amend, or repeal this
act."
The court below considered that the action of the State
was no regulation of commerce, and -only a "police regulation." What is police? Sir William Blackstone has defined
it in his Commentaries.* He says:
"By the public police and economy, I mean the dug regulation and domestic order of the kingdom, whereby the individuals
of the state, like the members of a well-governed family, are
bound to conform their general behavior to 'the rules of propriety, good Deighborhood, and good manners, and -tobe decent,
industrious, and inoffensive."
Police regulations are in their very nature local, confined
to the States enacting them) and can have no force or operation beyond those things which are purely internal to such
state. If they extend to or affect a commercial transaction,
between two or more States, or'the citizens of two or more
States, they so far cease to be police regulations and become
regulations of commerde among the several States.
Now, this enactment was not local. If applicable to the
case at bar is the court below held it to be,-since it gave
judgment for an 'overcharge on the whole carriage from
Chicago, in Illinois, to Marshalltown in Iowa,---the enactment applies as much to the whole road of the company as
to aiiy part of it; to that part of it-iu Illinois And other
States as' well as to that in Iowa, and to the freight or compensation eai'ned in another State as to that.earned in"Iowa.
Messrs. J
ubley Ashton and N. Wilson) contra:
Admitting that the transportation of property by railroads
* Vol. 4, p. 162;

nd see Bouvier's Law Dictionary, Title "Police."

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD CouPANY V. FULLER.

565

Argument for the party suing.

is "commerce," does the enactment of Iowa attempt to regulate it? In no sense does it interfere wiith the business of
the roads. It places no restriction or impediment upon the
free transportation by them of either property or persons.
The times .and places when and where they should receive
and deliver whatever they transport is not interfered with.
The terms, conditions, and circumstances under which they
shall transact their business are in no.manner provided for.
In short, transportation upon these roads is just as free, just
as untrammelled, as it was befor6 the act. The transportation itself by these roads is in no sense regulated. The regulations of the act extend to .the prevention of abuses, injustice, an-d oppression toward the people, resulting from the
unfair and unlawful practices of the agents and officers of
the corporation or of the corporations themselves. It is intended simply for ihe protectio-n of the people of the State,
and in its practical operation has no other effect.. In this
view it is, as the court below held it to be, a police regulation, and within the scope of-the authority of the State government. If the State may rightfully prevent, by fit legislation, railroad corporations from destroying the property of
its citizens through the negligent acts of their servants, and
provide penalties to be imposed for such acts, may it not
interpose its authority to protect the people from greater
losses by fraudulent and unfair dealings of such servants, or
of the corporations themselves? If the most insignificant
municipality within the State through which a railroad runs
may prescribe the rate of speed to be run by the cars of the
corporation engaged in the business of transportation, in
"commerce," for the purpose of protecting the property or
persons of its citizens, may not the State so legislate as to
prevent fraud and impositions by the corporation or its
servants? It would be strange if the State, to whom the
people look for the protection of their private rights and the
security of property, is powerless, as against these corporations, that owe their very being to charters derived from
State legislation, to prevent loss and injury to its citizens by.
fraudulent and unfair dealing.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FULLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of certain facts, &c.

Police regulations, while they may even affect commerce
and operate upon those engaged therein, are not obnoxious
to the Constitution-of the United States.* Quarantine and
health laws, under which vessels engaged in commerce may
be delayed for weeks in completing their voyages, or cargoes
may be seized and destroyed, and sailors and soldiers of the
United States imprisoned and punished for their violation,
are constitutional. This court has very recentlyt said, -that
it is not everything that affects commerce that amounts to a
regulation of it within the meaning of the Constitution.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The case lies within a narrow compass, and presents but a
single question for our consideration. That question is not
difficult of solution. The second section, chapter 169, of the
laws of the ninth General Assembly of Towa is as follows:
"In the month of September, annually, each railroad
company shall fix its rates of fare for passengers and freight.,
for transportation of timber, wood, and coal per ton, cord,
or thousand feet, per mile; also, its fare and freight per mile
for transporting merchandise and articles of the first, second,
third, and fourth grades of freight; and on the first day of
October following shall put up at all stations and depots on
its road a printed copy of such fare and freight, and cause a
copy to remain posted during the year. For wilfully neglecting so to do, .or for receiving higher rates of fare or
freight than those posted, the company shall forfeit not less
than one hundred dollars nor more than two hundred dollars to any person injured thereby and suing therefor."
The plaintiff in error was sued in the proper District
Court of the State for violations of these provisions. Among
other defences interposed, the company plead that the statute was in conflict with the commercial clause of the ConstiGibbons v.Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1; Brown v.Maryland, 12 Id. 419; The
Mayor v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102; License Cases, 5.Howard, 504; Passenger
Cases, 7 Id. 283.
t State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wallace, 293; Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Id. 479.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FULLER.

567

Opinion of the court.

tution of the United States. Fuller demurred to the plea.
The court sustained the demurrer and the company excepted. The case was afterwards submitted to a jury. The
company prayed the court to instruct them that the act was
invalid by reason of the conflict before mentioned. The
court refused, and the company again excepted. A verdict
and judgment were rendered for the plaintif The company
removed the case to the Supreme Court of the State, and
there insisted upon these exceptions as errors. That court
affirmed the judgment of the District Court, and the company thereupon prosecuted this writ of error. Was there
error in this ruling?
The Constitution gives t6 Congress the power "to regulate cotnm6rce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes."
The statute complained of providesThat each railroad company shall, in the month of September, annually, fix its rates for the transportation of passengers and of freights of different kinds;
That it shall cause a printed copy of such rates to be put
up at all its stations and depots, and cause a copy to remain
posted.during the year;
That a failure to fulfil these requirements, or the charging
of a higher rate than is posted, shall subject the offending
company to the payment of the penalty prescribed.
In all other respects there is no interference. No other
constraint is imposed. Except in these particulars the company may exercise all its faculties as it shall deem proper.
No discrimination is made between local and interstate
freights, and no attempt is made to control the rates that
may be charged. It is only required that the rates shall be
fixed, made public, and honestly adhered to. In this there
is nothing unreasonable or onerous. The public welfare is
promoted without wrong or injury to the company. The
statute was doubtless deemed to be called for by the interests
of the community to be affected by it, and it rests upon a
solid foundation of reason and justice.

m

5 8

RAILROAD COMPANY v. -FULLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opiniol of the court.

It is not, in the sense of the Constitution, in auy wise a
regulation.of commerce. It is a police regulation, and as
such forms "a portion of the immense mass of legislation
which embraces everything within the territory of a State
not surrendered to the General Government, all which can
be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves."*
This case presents a striking analogy to a I .'ominent feature in the case of The Brig James Gray-v. The Ship John
_1r"aser.t ,There the city authorities of Charleston had
passed an ordinance prescribing where a vessel should lie in
the harbor, what light she should show at night, and making
other similar regulations. It was objected that these requirements were regulations of commerce and, therefbre, void.
This court affirmed the validity of the ordinance.
In the complex system of polity which exists in this country the powers of government may be divided into four
classes:
Those which belong exclusively to the States.
Those which belong exclusively to the National Governraeut...
Those which may be exercised concurrently and independently by both.
And those which may be exercised by the.States but only
until Congress shall see fit to act upon the subject.
Thd authority'of the State then retires and lies in abeyance
until the occasion for its exercise shall recur.T
Cofnmerce is traffic, but it is much more. It embraces
also transportation by land and water, and all the means
and a'pliances necessarily employed in carrying it on.§
Th6 authority to. regulate commerce, lodged by the Constitution in Congress, is in part within the last division of
the powers of government above mentioned. Some of the
rules preseribed in the exercise of that power must from. the
nature of things be uniform throughout the country. To
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1.
: Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wallace, 240.
1061, 1062.
2 Story on the Constitution,

t 21 Howard, 184.

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FULLER.

569

Opinion of the court.

that cxtent the authority itself must necessarily be exclusive,
as much so as if it had been declared so to be by the Constitution in express terms.
Others may well vary with the varying circumstances of
diferent localities. Where a stream navigable for the purposes of foreign or interstate commerce is obstructed by
the authority of a State, such exercise of authority may be
valid until Congress shall see fit to intervene. The authority
of Congress in such cases is paramount and absolute, and it
may c6nipel the abatement of the obstruction whenever it
shall deem it proper to do so. A few of the cases illustrating
these views will be adverted to.
In Wilson v. The Blackbird Creel. Marsh Company,* under a
law of the State of Delaware, a dam had been erected across
the creek. This court held that the dam was a lawfiul structure, because not in conflict with any law of Congress.
Iu Gilman v. The City of Pliladelphia,tthe State of Pennsylvania had authorized the erection of a bridge over the
Schuylkill River, in the city of Philadelphia. This court
refused to interpose, because there was no legislatiou by
Congress affecting the river. The authority of Congre~s
over the subject wis affirmed in the strongest terms.
In The Wheeling Bridge Case,J the bridge was decreed to
be a nuisance, because Congress "had regulated the Ohio
River, and had thereby secured to the public the free and
Congress subsequently
unobstructed use of the same."
legalized the bridge, and this court held the case to be
thereby terminated.
In Cooley v. The Board of Wardens,§ the validity of a State
law establishing certain pilotage regulations, was drawn in
question. It was admitted by this'court that the regulations were regulations of commerce, but it was held that
they were valid and would continue to be so until superseded by the action of Congress.
In .Ex pare McNiellj the same question arose, and the
doctrine of the preceding case was reaffirmed.
. 2 Peters, 250.
12 Howard, 319.

j- 3 Wallace, 728.
[] Suzpra.

: 18 Howard, 430.

HORN V. LOCKHART.

[Sup. C.

Syllabus.

In -The amnes Gray v. The John I-Maser,* stress was laid
upon the fact that there was no act of Congress in conflict
with the city ordinance in questioii. - See, also, in this counection, Osborne v. The 6'ly of .obile.t
If the requirements of the statute here in question were,.
as contended by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, regedalions of commerce, the question would arise, whether, regarded
in the light of the authorities referred to, and of reason and
principle, they are not regulations of such a character as to
be valid until superseded by the paramount action of Congress. But as we are unanimously of the opinion that they
are merely police regulations, it is unnecessary to pursue
the subject.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

HORN v. LoCKHART .ET AL.
1. When objection is taken to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States by reason of the citizenship of some of the parties to a
suit, the question is whether to a decree authorized by the case presented they are indispensable rarties. If their interests are severable
from those of other parties, and a decree without prejudice to their
rights can be made, the jurisdiction of the court should be retained and
the suit dismissed as to them.
2. To a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United States by legatees in
a will to compel an executor to account for moneys received by him
from sales of property belonging to the estate of his testator, and to pay
to -them their distributive shares, it is no answer for the executor to
show that he invested such funds in the bolids of the Confederate government by authority of a law of the State in which-he was executor,
and that such investment was approved by the decree qf the probate
court having settlement of the estate. Such investment was a direct
contribution to the resources of the Confederate-government, and was
an illegal transaction, and the decree of the probate court approving the
investment and directing the payment of the distributive shares of the
legatees in such bonds was an absolute nullity, and affords no protection,
to the executor in the courts of the United States.
* 21 Howard, 184.

2 16
1 Wallace, 479.

