BRANSON V. WIRTH.

[Sup. Ct.

'Syllabus.

well doubted whether it is not more properly a subject of
diplomatic adjustment than of determination by the courts.
For the errors in the decree already indicated, it is
YERSED, and

RE-

the cause is
REMANDED FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.,

BRANSON V. WIRTH.
The government, as appeared by the exemplification of the record of a patent,
had granted, January 10th, 1818, to A. the northeast quarter of a certain tract of land, in pursuance confessedly of a warrant and location
upon that quarter; the exemplification of the record of the patent, however, showing that eight years after the date of the patent a 'memorandum : had been made [by whom did not appear] on this record,
that the patent itself was issued for the southeast quarter. The government had confes.edly issued a patent to Z. for this southeast quarter on
the 7th of January, 1818; that is to say, three days before the date of
the pfitent to A., for whatevrr corner the patent to A. really was. In
1819 A. conveyed to B. the southeast corner, describing it as the quarter
which had been granted by patent to him, January 10th, 1818. In
1824 B. conveyed to C., describing the land as the southeast corner. In
1825 0. conveyed to D.; and in 1829 D. conveyed to E., the deeds of
both these last describing the land as the southeast corner;, but the latter
deed not being put on record. In 1827 a private act of Congress was
passed authorizing the legal representative or assignee of A. to register
with the register of the proper land office any unappeopriated quartersection, &c., "1in lieu of the quarter-section patented to the said A. on
the 10th of January, 1818, which had been previously patented to Z.;"
and in pursuance of this act E. did, in 1838, enter another lot.
In 1843, on an assumption that the government had conveyed away its
title to it, the northeast quarter -was sold under the laws of Illinois for
State taxes and bought by 0. And in 1868, on an assumption that the
title was still in the government, the same quarter was patented by the
United States to P.
On a suit by P. against 0., H-eld1st. On a, supposition that the patent was given for the northeast quarter,
that there was no estoppel shown either by the deeds from A. to E.,
both inclusive, or by the act of Congress.(it being a private act), or by
E.'s selection of a new lot which prevented the defendants from showing the truth of the cise, to wit, that the patent was for the northeast
quarter.

Dec. 1872.]

BRANSON V. WIRTH.

S..atement of the case.
2d. That the "memorandum" on the record being no part of the record,
and but the memorandum of a third person, could not be received in
evidence to contradict the record.
3d. That accordingly it was error to have instructed the jury that the defendants had not shown outstanding title in the northeast quarter (the
lot sued for), either in A. or in any one under him, and that the plaintiff was entitled to recover.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Illinois; the case being thus:
-Wirth brought ejectment against Branson and another
for the recovery of the northeast quarter of section 18, in a
certain township in Fulton County, Illinois. On the trial
he made title under a patent from the United States to one
Leonard for the lot in question, dated 20th February, 1868.
The defendants claimed title under a sale of the lot for
thxes in 1843 under the laws of Illinois, in consequence of
the non-payment of the taxes laid in 1839. But as public
lands cannot be taxed, it was necessary for the defendants
to show that the government title was extinguished prior to
1839. To do this they gave in evidence, from the records
of the General Land Office, an exemplified copy of a military land warrant for 160 acres of land issued to Giles Egerton, in December, 1817, a location thereof in his favor upon
the lot in question on the 10th of January, 1818, and a
patent to Egerton for the same lot dated on the same day.
But on the margin of the exemplified -copyof the patent was
a memorandum, copied as follows, viz.:*
Cc
INDORSED.

"This patent was issued for the S. E. quarter instead of the
N. E. quarter, as recorded; sent certificate of that fact to l. .
Clemson, at Lebanon, Illinois. See his letter of 19th May, 1826."
The defendants did not offer this memorandum in evidence, and objected to its being read, but, at the instance
of the plaintiff, it was allowed to be read to the jury.
* The word "indorsed," in said memorandum, was in red ink.
rest of the memorandum in black ink.
I
Vo;i. Xvi'.
8

The

BRANSON V. WIRTH.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

The defendants then gave in evidence a deed dated July
29th, 1819, from Giles'Egerton to one Thomas Hart for "the
southeast quarter of section 18," &c., closinig the description
as fbllows:
"Which quarter-section was granted to th'e said Giles in consideration of his military services, as will appear by a patent
obtained from the General Government, dated the 10th day of
January, 181.8."
[The defendants contended that the word "southeast" in
this deed was written by fiistake, and should have been.
"northeast."] They further adduced (aid in support of this
view) an exemplified copy of a patent from the United States
to one James Durney (another soldier), dated January'7th,
i818 (that is to say, three days before the alleged grant to
Egerton), for this southeast quarter of section 18.
The plaintiff in rebuttal gave in evidence deeds for the
southeast quarter-section as follows: from Thomas Hart to
Samuel Hfunt, dated 12th May, 1824; from Hunt to E. B.
Clemson, dated 7th April, 1825; and from .lemson to John
Shaw, dated 20th October, 1829; the two fdrmer being regularly recorded; the last iot recorded. The plaintiff then
gave in evidence an act of Congress, approved March 3d,
1827, entitled "An act for the relief of the legal representatives of Giles Egerton," by which it was enacted that the
legal representative or assignee of Giles Egerton be "authorized to enter with the register of the proper land officeany unappropriated quarter-section of land in the tract reserved, &c., in lieu of the quarter patented to the said Giles on- the
10th day of January,1818, which had been previously patented to
James .Durney, and upon such entry a patent shall issue to
such representative or assignee for the quarter-section so
selected." The plai-ntiff then proved that John Shaw entered another lot in April, 1838, in pursuance of this act.
To all this evidence offered by the plaintiff in rebuttal the
defendants objected.
It thus appeared from the records of the land office (bara'ing-the memorandum in the margin of the patent), that the

Dec. 1872.][

D BRANSON v. WrRTr.
Argument in support of the ruling.

northeast quarter of section 18, which was the lot in question,
bad been regularly entered under a valid land warrant, and
regularly patented; but it also appeared that the patentee,
either by mistake of the scrivener or from some other cause,
had conveyed to a third person the southeast quarter of the
same section, as the lot so patented; and that the subsequent
conveyances copied this description. Also that one of the
subsequent grantees, several years afterwards, finding the
southeast quarter embraced in a prior patent, got leave from

Congress to enter another lot in the place of it, and did so.
This was all the evidence in the cause. The patent itself
was not produced; nor did it appear what had become of it.
The court instructed the jury, that the defendantts had
not shown outstanding title to the lot in question, either in
Giles Egerton or in any one claiming under him, and that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover. To this charge the defendants excepted.
Xr. -Yoratio C. Burchard,in support of the ruling below:
I. Egerton'spatent granted the southeast quarter.
Four independent facts seem to show that although Giles
Egerton was entitled to receive upon his location a patent
for the northeast quarter, the patent he actually received was
for the southeast quarter.
1st. The marginal entry on the record.
2d. The recitals in Egerton's deed to Hart.
3d. The conduct of the subsequent grantees.
4th. The recitals in the act of Congress of March 3d, 1827.
1. The marginalentry. This was undoubtedly written upon
the face of the record. It has stood there since 1826; nearly
fifty years. It cannot be presumed to have been made without the authority or sanction of the officer having charge of

the records; the Commissioner of the General Laud Office.
It was there o, record, and upon the page of'the record of
the alleged patent, when the commissioner, in 1868, made
the exemplified copy of the record offered in evidence below.
He had no -right to separate them. They were the record
as he found it.

BRANSON V. WIRTH.

[Sup. at.

Argument in support of the ruling.

Pie recitals in Egerton's deed. Egerton declares in his
deed to Hart that it will appear by his patent, obtained January 10th, 1818, that the southeast quarter of section 18, &c.,
was granted to him in consideration of his military services.
He doubtless then had in his possession the patent actually
issued to him on the 10th of January, A.Dw 1818, and from
it himself drew, or the scrivener for him, the deed to Hart.
The deed itself supports this conclusion; it contains internal
evidence of the fact. The description of the tract, the recitals of Egerton's title and consideration for.which he obtained a patent, and date of its issue, must have been taken
from the patent. The particular quarter-section upon which
a bounty land warrant should be located in a military tract
was then determined by lot, and not by selection, as at present.* The soldier held no certificate of location, His patent
was the only evidence furnished him as to what tract he had
become the owner of.
8. The conduct of Egerton's grantees. It is evident that
there was a mistake in the patent to Egerton, as intended
to be issued, or in the deed from him to Hart, and in the
mesne conveyances from Hart to Shaw. If the successive
deeds followcd the patent, each purchaser inspecting the
title-papers of his grantor would hive no occasion to question the validity of the title he was about to acquire. When,
however, it appeared that an elder patent had been issued
to Durney for the southeast quarter, it behooved the last
grantee, tracing title to thiat tract through, Egerton, to examine his title-papers and ascertain and have rectified any
mistake occurring therein. To do this required a comparison of deed with prior deed and with the patent. If a misdescription had occurred in any mesne conveyance, or in the
deed from Egerton to Hart, the mistake would have been
sought to be corrected by a new deed from Egerton, or a bill
in chancery bad he refused to execute one. The conduct of
the parties-the grantees of.Egerton-shows that no mistake
was discovered in the deeds, and no variance in them from
-2.

*

Act of April 29th, 1816, Land Laws, vol. 1, p. 702.

Dec. 1872.]

BRANSON V.

WIRTH.

Argument in support of the ruling.

the patent. No new deed appears to have been executed or
proceedings instituted to correct a mistake in the deeds and
make them correspond with the patent. On the contrary,
the grantee came to the United States claiming that his deed
and the patent to Egerton were conveyances of the southeast
quarter of section 18, and that as the tract had been granted
by an elder patent to Durney, the government should give
the legal representative or assignee of Giles Egerton the
right to select another quarter-section in lieu thereof. The
fact that Durney's patent for the southeast quarter was oldef

than Giles Egerton's must have been ascertained by an examination of the latter patent itself.
4. The act of March 3d, 1827. The act, as a reason and
justification for its passage, alleges that the quarter patented
to Giles Egerton on the 10th day of January, A.D. 1818,
had been previously patented to Durney. The court will
not presume that the legislative department declared this to
be a fact and gave it the sanction of a legal enactment without satisfactory proof of its truth. The patent itself, at that
time in the possession of Egerton or his grantee, wag, doubtless, produced before the committee which examined and
recommended the passage of the bill.
The four facts to which we have adverted corroborate
each other, and taken together are only reconcilable with
the conclusion that no matter what patent should have been
and was intended to be issued to Giles Egerton, the patent
signed, sealed, and received by him, purported to grant the
southeast quarter and not the northeast quarter.
The proof, therefore, shows thatII. The legal title to the northeast quarterremained in the United
States until the issue of the patent to Leonard.
The location of Egerton's bounty warrant upon the land
did not convey to him the legal title. It gave him a right
to a conveyance, which right he could waive or relinquish.
The title of the United States can only pass by patent or by
act of Congress in words of present grant.*
*

Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters,-499.

BRANSON -V. WIRT.[.

[LSup. Ct.

Argument in support of the ruling.

IH. The plaintiffs in error are estopped from selting up title in
-Egerton.
They present the issue of a Tatent to Egerton for the
northeast quarter, either as ,a basis of title in themselves or
as an outstanding title in him or -inHart: They can assert
for or under him no better title than he could for himself"or
his grantees.
A person claiming title under one who is estopped, is also
bound by the estoppel.*
1st. Egerton, by the deed to Hart of the southeast quarter,
and its recitals that his patent granted that tract, and by the
successive conveyances- from Hart to Shaw, with the acceptance by the latter of another quarter-section from the United
States in lieu of that quarter, became estopped from claiming Fhat his patent granted him the northeast quarter.
A person is always estopped by his own deed, and will
not be allowed to aver anything in contradiction of what he
has once solemnly and deliberately admitted.- Admissions
which have been acted upon by others are conclusive against
the party making them, in all cases between him and the
party whose conduct he has thus influenced.j
2d. Egerton's successive grantees, Hart, Hunt, Clemson,
and Shaw, are bound and, estopped by the recital and facts
that estop Egerton.
A party who executes a deed is estopped from denying
not only the deed but every fact which it recites, and all
persons claiming under and through the party estopped are
bound by the estoppel.5
3d. The recitals in the act of Congress of the 3d of March,
1827, and Shaw's entry of a quarter-section under its provisions, also estop him from questioning the truth of the
*McCravey

v. Remson, 19 Alabama, 430; Phelps v. Blount, 2 Devereux,

177.

t Lazon v. Peeman, 3 Mississippi, 529; Denn v..Brewer, Coxe, 172; Ridgway v. Morrison, 28 Indiana, 201.
M
McClellan v. Kennedy, 8 Maryland, 230; Cummings v. Webster, 43
Maine, 192.
SStow v. Wyse, 7 Connecticut, 214.

Dec. 1872.]

BRANSON V. "WIRTH.
Opinion of the courL

facts recited in the act.* The act asserts that the quarter
patented to Egerton on the 10th day of January, A.D. 1818,
had been previously patented to Durney. The latter's patent was for the southeast quarter. Egerton's patent, therefore, according to the act, granted that quarter. Shaw,
Egerton's remote grantee, availed himself of its provisions;
he-must be held to admit its statements. The entry was to
be iii "lieu of" the quarter patented to Egerton, so that it
was a relinquishment by Shaw of whatever -quarter that patent
granted. The act and the entry would estop Shaw, and all
parties whose right or title under the patent Shaw had acquired, from claiming title under the Egerton patent.
4th. The estoppel is available at law. Equitable matters
creating an estoppel have been recognized in many cases as
available at law.t
Mr. S. C. Judd, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the coiurt.
The court below instructed the jury, that the defendants
had not shown outstanding title to the lot in question, either
in Giles Egerton, or in any one claiming under him, and

that the plaintiff was entitled to recover. To this charge
the defendants excepted.
The court did not state the ground on which the charge
to the jury was based; whether on the ground that the original patent of Giles iEgerton was in fact given for the southeast quarter-section, and not for the northeast quarter; or
on the ground that Egerton and those in privity with him
were estopped on that point.
We will first consider the ground of estoppel, on the supposition that the patent was, or may have been, in fact given
for the lot in question, but that the supposed estoppel prevented Egerton, and those in privity with him, from alleg* Cary v. Whitney, 48 Maine, 516.
t French v. Spencer, 21 Howard, 228; Brown v. Wheeler, 17 Connecticut,
345; Corbett v. Norcross,- 35 New Hampshire, 99.

BRANSON V. WIRTH.

[sup. Oh.

Opinion of the court.

ing that fact. What, then, was this estoppel? Who was
bound by-it? and who can set it up?
The supposed estoppel is founded on the deed given by
Egerton to Hart, in July, 1819, for a lot described as the
southeast quarter of section 18, and as granted to Egerton by
his patent of January 10th, 1818.
Now if the patent thus referred to was, in fact, for the.
northeast quarter, there was a mere mistake in the deed
which might have been rectified in equity, or, perhaps, by
a reference to the patent itself. Bat standing as it did,
without being reformed, what at most was the estoppel
which it created? and who could have taken advantage of
it at that time? First, Egerton was technically estopped, at
law, to deny that his patent covered the southeast quarter,
wLich the deed, in terms, conveyed; secondly, this estoppel
related only to the southeast quarter; thirdly, it existed only
as between Egerton on the one-side, and Hart on the other,
and their respective privies. Thus far, it did not bind the
government, nor could the government take advantage of
it, being a stranger to the estoppel. It did not impair the
title of the government, or of its patentee, to the southeast
quarter, assumed to be conveyed; nor did it reinvest the
government with the title to the northeast quarter. If the
original 'patent was in fact for the northeast quarter, the
government could not have reclaimed that quarter against
its own patent, whatever deed Egerton may bave given to
a third party for a diffbrent lot. And Egerton's heirs, or
his grantees of the northeast quarter, would have stood in
his place. And the defendants in this ease, coming into
possession of that quarter' under a tax sale, are to be regarded in the same light (at leastthat is the plaintif's claim)
as Egerton himself would be if he were in possession of it.
Such was the position of 'the parties at the giving of the
deed to Hart in 1819. Has anything since occurred to
change that position, and to divest the title of the lot in
question out bf Egerton, or his legal assigns, by estoppel?
We think not.
The assumed title to the southeast quarter conveyed to

Dec. 1872.]

BRANSON V.

WIRTIL.

Opinion of the court.

Hart passed from hand to hand by several mesne conveyances until, in 1827, the then grantee procured the act of
Congress, authorizing him to enter another lot in lieu of
the southeast quarter, which the act supposes to have been
patented to Egerton, but previously patented to James Durney. It is contended that this act and the subsequent entry
of another lot in pursuance of it, operated to estop Egerton
and his grantees from claiming the northeast quarter.
But the legal estoppel which affected Egerton and his
grantees, was not changed by that act. And in speaking of
the grantees of Egerton, we must distinguish between those
claiming under the deed to Hart, which assumed to convey
the southeast quarter, and those claiming (as the defendants
do) as grantees of the northeast quarter. The former class
are those who are entitled to claim the benefit of the estoppel; the latter we are supposing to be bound by the estoppel.
The act of Congress was procured in 1827 by the grantee
under the deed to Hart, eight years after the date of that
deed; and it recites that the patent was for the southeast
quarter. Now it is well settled that recitals in a private act
bind none but those who apply for it.* The act in question
was made for the benefit of the grantee under Hart's deed.
He claimed the southeast quarter, but found that it bad been
patented to Durney; and he applied for leave to enter another lot. How can his act change or enlarge the estoppel
by which Egerton and his grantees of the lot in question
were bound before? A person entitled to the benefit of an.
estoppel may transfer it by transferring the estate, but he
cannot change it or enlarge it. Every grantee of the south-.
east quarter, through Hart, to the end of time, may estop
Egerton and his assigns from denying that his patent was
for the southeast quarter. But the government is not a
grantee of that quarter under or through Hart. The government is still, in law, a stranger to the estoppel.
It is supposed that Egerton and his assigns are estopped
by the fact that the government was induced to give to EgerElmondorff v. Carmichael, 3 Littell, 472, 480- 2 Cowen & Hil's Notes,
251.

BRANSON V. WIRTH.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

ton's grantee another lot in consequence of the declaration
contained in his deed to Hart. This may be ground for an
equitable estoppel, not:a legal one, and therefore not available in. an action of ejectment where the title is in issue. If
one person is induced to do an act prejudicial to himself in
consequence of the acts or declarations of another, on which
he had a right to rely, equity will enjoin the latter from
asserting his legal rights against the tenor of such acts or
declarations. But, then, the person charged has an opportunity of explaining, and equity will decree according to
the justice of the entire case.* Had the government, after
ginting another lot to Egerton's grantee, in pursuance of
the act of Congress, filed a bill against Egerton to prevent
him from asserting title to the lot in question, perhaps it
would have been a good defence for him to have shown that
the discrepancy in his deed was a mere mistake, and that
the agents of the govei'nment had no right to rely on it, because their own records would have shown that the patent
was in fact given for the northeast quarter. But however
this may be, the only estoppel arising out of the transaction
referred to, which the government could set up, was an
equitable and not a legal one.
hven ifit were otherwise, and if the government could,
in any aspect of the case, claim the benefit of the legal
estoppel, itivould be prevented from doing so by its own
.patent granted to Egerton. That would present the case of
estoppel against estoppel, which Lord Coke says setteth the
matter at large.t No one can set up an estoppel against his
own grant. Whoever else, therefore, might set up the estoppel against Egerton's title to the lot in question, the government could not do so. Its own patent would stand in
the way. And whatever the government could not do, its
subsequent grantees could not do.
It is suggested that Egerton's grantee, who procured the
act of Congress and a patent for another lot, represented
Egerton, and by his acts bound Egerton in the same manner
2 Smith's Leading Cases, 702, 748, ed. 1866.
j Coke Littleton, 352 b; 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 658 [584].

Dec. 1.872.]

BRANSON V. WIRTI.
Opinion of the court.

as himself.' But this may well be questioned. He could
bind himself by his own acts; but he could only bind Egerton to the extent of Egerton's deed, and the effect of that
has been fully considered. Egerton never asked the government for another patent, n'or did be authorize his grantee
to do so. The transaction which took place between that
grantee and the government was, as to Egerton and his
grantees of the lot in question, res inter alios aca.
The conclusion to which we have come on this part of the
case is, that there was no estoppel shown by the evidence
which would prevent the defendants from showing the truth
of the case, as to which quarter-section was actually granted
to Giles Egerton by his patent of January 10th, 1818.
This is, therefore, the next question to be considered.
Had the patent itself been exhibited on the trial, il would
have ended all controversy on the subject. But it was not
exhibited, and it did not appear what had become of it. An
exemplified copy, however, of the record of it, as it remains
in the archives of the General Land Office, was produced.
This showed that the patent was for the northeast quarter
of sectlofi 18, being.the lot in controversy.' It was also
shown from the same records, that 'his lot had been duly
entered in favor of Egerton, under his military land warrant,
on the day of the date of.the patent. It was further shown,
that the southeast quarter of section 18 had three days before been patented to another person, Durney. This cumulative evidence seems irrefragable to the effect that the patent
was in fact given for the lot in controversy.
Against this evidence, we have only, first, the description
in the deed from Egerton to Hart, where the word "southeast" is used instead of "northeast;" secondly, the memorandum in the margin of the record, and thirdly, the recital
in the act of Congress. As to the first, it is a kind of variance which so frequently occurs by mistake of the scrivener
(as every surveyor and land lawyer knows), that it is scarcely
worthy of a moment's consideration, when opposed to the
record of the patent. As to the second-the memorandum
made in the margin of the record-it is not known when it

OLCOTT

v. BYNUM.

[Sup. ct.

Syllabus.

was made, except that it must have been after the 19th of
May, 1826, the date of the letter referred to in the memorandum itself, which was eight years after the date of the
patent; nor is it known who made it, nor on what evidence
itwas made. Such a memorandum, being no part of the
record itself, cannot be received to contradict the record,
It would be a very dangerous precedent to allow it to have
that effect. It is not the record of any act of the department, nor of any document entitled to registry in its archives.
It is nothing but a memorandum of a third person, and hearsay evidence at best.
As to the recital of the statute, whilst the recitals of public
acts are regarded as evidence of the facts recited, it is otherwise, as we have seen, in reference to private acts. They
are not evidence except against the parties who procure
them.* The statute in question is a mere private act, and
cannot be rceived as evidence, except as against the person
who procured it, who was not Egerton, but his remote assignee under the Hart deed. It can only be used. as evidence against the person on whom it acts as an estoppel.
We conclude, therefore, that the charge of the court below was erroneous, and that the judgment must be REVERSED,
with directions to award a
VENIRE DE NOVO.

OLCOTT V.

BYNUM

ET AL.

Under the statutes of North Oarolina regulating the conveyance of real
estate in that State, no copy of a registefdd copy of 6, deed can be read
in evidence in place of the original, even if it be proved that the original is lost.
A resulting trust of land does not arise in favor of one of two joint purchasers, unless his part is some-definite portion of the whole, and what
money he pays is paid for some alicuot part of the property, qsa fourth,
third, or a moiety. Nor can it arise in any case for more-than the
* 2 Phillipson Evidenrm, 106; 6th Ani. ed.

