POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND.I-IHAVEN RY.
201 U. s:

543

Syllabus.

trical power,. and the allegation is hardly made doubtful by the
answer. We cannot believe- that the expenditure of that sum
was unworthy of consideration by the city, or that the city
intended to exact it as an obligation that could be imposed on
.the company, or regarded it as anything but a benefit'to the
city, to be recompensed and secured by the ordinance which
was passed.
It is urged by the appellee that the roads operated by it constituted a unified system, And by virtue of the ordinance of
July.17, i893, fixing the time of the expiration of the grant
thereby made the twenty-sixth of January, 1910, and the ordinance of February, 1894, in which the date of the expiration
of.the grant there provided for was the first day of July, 1914,
eitended the time of all, the grants composing the system until
1914. We do not think this question properly arises on the
record,. and we, therefore, do not pass upon it.
Decree affirmed.

POWERS, AUDITOR GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN, v. DETROIT,, GRAND HAVEN AND MILWAUKEE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 394. -Argued February 26, 1906.-Decided April 16, 1906.

Where a railroad company is reorganized under a special act of the legislature but no new corporation is chartered a statutory exemption from
taxation -is not destroyed.
A State may, through. its legislature, make a valid contract as to taxation
with a corporation which the latter can enforce; and this court is not,
under the rule generally applicable as to the binding effect of decisions
of the Supreme Court, of the State construing its statutes, concluded by

OCTO'BER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

the decisions of that court as to .whether such a contract exists, ,the extent ofits terms and whether any subsequent law has impaired its obligation.. But where the Supreme Court of the State sustains the validity
of the statute from which a contract is claimed, this court follows that
decision and determines what the pontract is.
Provisions in a state statute for -a special rate of taxation in respect to a
particular corporation, made with a view of inducing large expenditures
and the completion of an unfinished rdad of great public importance,
and which are formally accepted and complied with, amount to a contract within the protection of the impairment clause of the Federal
.Constitution, and no other tax can be imposed on the corporation.
An annual tax of one per cent imposed by a special statute on the capital
stock of a particular corporation to be paid in lieu of all other taxes except for penalties imposed thereupon and prescribed to be estimated each
year on the last annual report of the corporation, held, under the circumstances of this case, to be a tax upon the property of the corporation,
and not a tax upon the shares of stock held by the stockholders.

THIS case,, which is a suit brought'by the appellee in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Michigan, while involving the validity of the railroad tax law
of the State of Michigan, acts 1901, p. 236, No. 173, recently
considered by this court (ante, p. 245), involves the further
question of the existence and scope of an alleged contract in
respect to taxation. The Detroit and Pontiac Rail Road Company was chartered by the legislature of the Territory of Michigan, March 7, 1834, the Oakland and Ottawa Rail Road Company by the legislature of the State of Michigan, April 3, 1848,
Laws 1848, p. 351.- By an act of February 13, 1855, Laws of
1855, p. 305, the Detroit and Pontiac Rail Road was authorized
to change its name to the Detroit and Milwaukee Railway Company, to purchase all the' rights, property and franchises of the
Oaklarld and Ottawa Rail Road Company for the building and
operating a continuous line of road from Detroit to Lake Michigan, and the purchase and sale thus provided for was duly
effected. Section 9 of this act provided that-

"* * * the said company shall, on or before the first day of July,

pay the state treasurer an annual tax of one per cent on the capital stock of said company paid in, which tax shall be in lieu of
all other taxes, except for penalties imposed upon said company

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY.
201 U.S.

545

Argument for Appellant."

by tts act of incorporation, or any other law of this State. The
said tax shall be estimated upon the last annual report of said
corporation."

-

Since 1850 the state constitution has contained these provisions:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws but shall
not be created by special act except for municipal purposes.
All laws passed pursuant to this section may be amended, altered or repealed. But the legislature may, by a vote of twothirds of the members elected to each house,' create a 'single
bank with branches." Section 1, art. XV.
"The' legislature shall pass no law altering or amending any
act of -incorporation heretofore granted, without the assent of
two-thirds of the members elected to each house; nor shall any
such act be renewed or extended. This restriction shall not
apply to municipal corporations." Section 8, art. -XV.
In 1860 certain mortgages on the road'were foreclosed and
the company reorganized, and again in 1878 the road with its
appurtenances and franchises was sold upon mortgage foreclosure and again reorganized as the Detroit, Grand' haven and
Milwaukee Railway Company. These foreclosures and reorganizations took place under the authority of act No. 96, p. 252,
Laws of 1859
On the hearing in the Circuit Court it,was held that section 9,
above quoted, created a contract between the State and the
company which prevented the enforcement against it of the
railroad tax law, and a decree was entered accordingly, 138
Fed. Rep.,264, from which decree the state auditor appealed
directly to this court.
Mr., Timothy E. Tarnsey, with whom Mr. John E. Bird,
Attorney General of the State of Michigan, was on the brief,
for appellant:
I There was also a separate brief by Mr. Roger Irving Wykes,
on which were Mr. John E. Bird, Attorney General of the State
of Michigan, .Mr..Charles A. Blair and Mr. Loyal E. Knappen.
voit. cox-35

-

.546

4oCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U.

.

The act of 1834, the original charter, is silent upon the subject of taxation; hence the power to tax remained unfettered-.
Providence Bank y. Billings, 4,Pet. 514.
It is denied that the railroad company obtained any ne*
contract rights by the legislation of 1855.' That act merely
changed the name of-the Detroit & Pontiac Rail Road Company
to the Detroit & Milwaukee Railway Company, and authorized
such company to purchase the property, rights and franchise
of the Oakland & Ottawa Rail Road Company, and then declared in section 4, "in case of said purchase or consolidation,
the said Detroit & Milwaukee Railway Company shall hold the
whole df said road and, property, subject in all respects to the
original charter of the Detroit & Pontiac Rail 'Road Company,
as amended from time. to time," etc.
To ascertain the extent of the powers,I privileges and' fraiichises -which may be exercised'by the Detroit & MilWaukee
Railway Company; the original charter or act of 1834 must be
searched, -and amongst the powers, privileges and franchises
there conferred is not found the immunity from taxation. If
the legislature of.1855 intended that the exemptiow6r immunity
from taxation should become a part of the charter of said company and a contract between the State and it, it would not
have confined the powers, privileges and franchises to the original charter, but would have conferred authority to exercise the
powers, privileges and franchises therein and herein conferred.
No language is contained in the ninth section by which' the
State binds itself to continue the rate of taxation therein im:
posed, during the continuance of the charter by the railway
company or for any definite time.
The legislature of Michigan did not possess the power to enter
into -acontract to exempt from taxation in 1855 under the
constitution of 1850. Walcott v. People, 17 Michigan, 81'; Gulf
& Ship Island Ry. Co. v. Hewes, 183 U. S. 71.
The constitution of 1850 provided for-formation of' corporations under general laws and for the amendment and repeal
of all laws passed- pursuant to it. The provisions. of the

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY.
201 U. S.

547

Argument for Appellant.

act of 1855 must be read in connection with the constitution.
Planters' Fire'& Marine Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S.
193.
The tax provision in the act of 1855 was a mere gratuity and
subject to repeal. Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527; West
Wisconsin Ry. Company v. SuperVisors, 93 U. S. 595; Turnpike
Co. v. illinois, 96 U. S. 63; PhiladelphiaR. R. Co.'s Appeal,
102 Pa. St. .123 - Attorney General v. Joy, 55 Michigan, 94.
This court will decide for itself independently of the state
courts whether there is a contract or whether its obligation is
impaired. If the decision of that question requires a construction of state constitutions and laws, this court is not necessarily
governed by previous decisions of a state court upon the same
or similar points except where they have been so firmly established as to constitute a rule of property.' Jefferson Branch
Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken
Co.,1 Wall. 116; L. N. R. R. Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S., 244;
Vicksburg S. & P. R. Co. v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665; Mobile &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Shelby County v.
Union & Planters' Bank, 161 VJ. S. 149.
If the immunity from taxation contained in the act of 1855
is held to be 'a contract with the railway company -named
therein such- immuity did not pass to the complainant. Morgan v. Lou isiana, 93 U. S. 217.
The exemption from taxation is 'a personal right and not a
franchise essential to the operation of a railroad, hence without
express statutory direction it does not pass to the purchaser
of th6 road at foreclosure. Railroad Co. v. Gaines, 97,fUC S.
711; Railway Co. v. Commissioners, 103 U. S. 4; Railroad Co.
v. Hamblen County, 102 U. S. 274; Wilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S.
421;.Memphis R. R. Co. v. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 617;
Chesapeake &c. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 184; Pickardv. East Tennessee &c. R. R. Co. 130 U. S. 641; MercantileBank v. Tennessee,
161 U. S. 164.
The franchise to be a corporation was neither mortgaged nor
sold, nor could it have been. Memphis &c. R. R. Co. v. Berry,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U. S.

112 U. S.. 609; Julianv. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S.93; People

v. Cook, 148 U. S.397.
Attorney General v. Joy, 55 Michigan, 94, is not in conflict
with this view. 'That involved whether the Detroit, G. H. &
Milwaukee existed as a corporation, not whether it was the
same corporation as the Detroit & Pontiac or the Detroit &
Milwaukee.
'The foreclosure proceedings of .1860 did not extinguish the
corporate existence of the Detroit & Milwaukee Railway Company, nor did it continue that same existence in the new purchasers,- but it continued as a separate and distinct entity for
such purposes as the stockholders thereof might lawfully use
it for, and it was'in legal effect nothing more nor'less than a
surrender or abandonment of the old charter by the corporators to the Stateand a grant de novo of a similar charter to the
purchasers, as was held in Memphis &c.' R. R. Co. v. Berry, 112
\1
U. S. 609..
Foreclosure sale under mortgage of corporate property conveys merely a right to organize under existing laws; and such
organization is a distinct entity, not acquiring original corporation's immunity from taxation. Section 1, art' 15 of the Michigan constitution declares that corporations may form under
general laws.but shall not be created by special act except for
municipal purposes. All laws passed pursuant to-this section
may br' amended, altered or repealed. When the present complainant and.its immediate predecessor acquired rights in this
railroad, this constitutional provision was in force. Memphis
&c. R. R. Co. v. Berry, 112 U. S. 609; St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v.
Berry, 113 U. S.476; Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U.'S. 689; People
v. Cook, 148 U. S.397. See also Northern Central R. R. Co.
v. Maryland, 187 U. S.258.
Section 9 of the act of 1855 relates only to taxation upon
capital stock paid in, and does not assume to exempt or limit
taxation upon other property of the company.
There must be no doubt or ambiguity in the language used
upon which the claim to exemption is found. Phanix F. & Al.

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY.
201 U. S.

549

Argument for Appellant.

Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Chicago &c. v. Gu7ey, 120
U. S. 596; Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S..687; Tennessee v.
.Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129.
The capital stock and,the shares of stock in the hands of the:
shareholders may both be taxed and it is not double taxation.
Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; People v. Tax Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244.
The term capital stock is defined in Burrall v. Bushwick Railroad Company, 75 N. Y. 211, as that money or property which
is put in a single corporate fund by those who by subscription
therefor become members of a corporate body. See also Berry.
v.. Merchants' Exchange Company, 1 Sandf. 307; State v. Morristowin Fire Association, 3 Zabr. 195; Bailey v. Clark, 21 Wall.
286; Tradesmen's Pub. Co. v. Knoxville Car Wheel Co., 95 Tennessee, 634.
But the capital stock is not the same thing as the property
of the corporation. Commercial F. Insurance Co. v. Board of
Revenue, 99 Alabama, 4; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 623; Beach on Priv. Corp. 426; Central
R. &c. Co. v. Wright, 164 U., S. 327; Memphis &c. R. Co. v.
Gaines, 97 U. S.697; State v. Morristown F. Assoc., 23 N. J. L.
195; Berry v. Merchants' Ex. Co., 1 Sandf. Cli. 307; Quincy R.
Bridge Co. v. Adams County, 88 Illinois, 621.
The property of a corporation fluctuates, and may be greater
or less than the original capital invested, according as the business has resulted in a profit or a loss. But the capital stock
remains fixed and unaffected by the accidents of business.
Farrington v. Tennessee; Commercial Fire Insurance Co. v.
Board of Revenue; State v. Morristown F. Association, supra.
The sum total of all the assets of a corporation is sometimes
said to constitute a capital, but the term "capital" is here used
in its economic sense as "wealth in use," and not as synonymous with capital stock, in which sense it is also sometimes
used. Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 104 U. S. 495; State v.
Norwich &c..R. Co., 30 Connecticut, 290; Ohio &c. R. Co. v.
*Weber, 96 Illinois, 443; Pacific Hotel Co. v. Lieb, 83 Illinois,,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U. S.

602; Traders &c. Insurance Co. v. Brown, 142 Massachusetts,
403; People v. Wemple, 78 Hun, 67; People V. Knight, 75 App.
Div. N. Y. 164; Howland v. Edmonds,.24 N. Y. 315; People v.
Tax &c. Commissioners, 23 N. Y. 219; State v. Cheraw &c. R.
Co., 16 S. Car. 528; Tradesmen's Pub. Co. v. Knoxville Car Wheel
Co., 95 Tennessee, 634; State Bank v. Milwaukee, 18 Wisconsin,
284.
Undivided profits or surplus form no part of the capital stock,
though they do form part of the-general capital or assets of the
corporation. Farrington v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 686; Hightower v. Thornton, 8 Georgia, 486 (52 Am. Dec. 412); People
v. Wemple, 78 Hun, 63; Berry v. Mer. Exch. Co., 1 Sandf. Ch..
307; Williams v. Western U. Tel. Co., 93 N. Y. 187; Sun Mt.
Ins. Co. v. New York, 8 N. Y. 241; State v. Bank of Commerce,'
95 Tennessee, 221; State Bank v. Milwaukee, 18 Wisconsin;
284.
Money borrowed by the corporation forms no part of its capital stock. State v. Cheraw R. Co., 16 S. Car. 528. The franchise of the corporation constitutes no part or element of its
capital stock. People v. Coleman, 34 Am. & Eng. Corp. Cas..
223.
A corporation is not limited in its ownership of property to.
the amount fixed as its capital stock. State.v. Morristown F.
Assoc., 23 N. J. L. 195; Berry v. Merchants' Exch. Co., 1 Sandf.
Ch. 307.
Upori the other hand the amount ot capital stock is limited
to the amount actually subscribed for and issued, and is not
necessarily the amount named in the articles of association,
which latter is merely the authorized capital stock. Fisk v.
Chicago R. Co., 36 How. Pr. (N. Y.) -22; Pratt V. Munson, 17
Hun, 475; Green Point SugarCompany v. Whitin, 69 N. Y. 338;
Commonwealth v. Lehigh Ave. R. Co., 129 Pa. St. 414; Philadelphia v. Ridge Ave. Pass. R. Co., 102 Pa. St. 190; Philadelphia v. Philadelphia &c. R. Co., 52 Pa. St. 177.
The accumulated surplus of a corporation. is defined to be
"the fund the corporation has in excess of its capital stock, after

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY. 551
201 U. S.

Argumnent for Appellee.

payment of its debts.". State v. Parker,.35 N. J. L. 578; State
v. Utter, 34 N. J. L. 480; State v. Yard, 42 N. J. L. 359.
In view of the clear distinction between the stock in the
-,hands of the shareholders, the capital stock, the property of
the corporation, the surplus over and, above the capital stock
and the franchise, each may be regarded as separate and distinct classes of property, and the exemption, if one exists, be
no further than the language clearly imports, viz., upon the
amount of the capital stock paid in.
But it is not the capital stock the State seeks to tax; it is
the property of the railroad company; appraised at $6,195,000,
while the amount of capital stock paid in, -as shown by the
bill of complaint is the sum of $2,517,140, showing property of
the value of $3,677,860 in excess of the amount of capital stock
paid in.
Whether this excess is the result of accumulated earnings,
or property produced by the sale of bonds, does not appear,
but it is quite clear that it is a surplus and is the property of
the corporation and subject to taxation, and it does not appear
that any part of said capital styck paid in has been converted
into the property taxed. If it did so appear, then- the exemption could only extend to the amount of the capital stock paid
in.
Mr. H. Geer and Mr. L. C. Stanley for appellee:
Section 9, act 140, Laws. of 1855, is a part of the complainant's charter, and its repeal by act 5, Laws of 1900, was in violation: of the contract clause of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it impaired the obligation of the contract between complainant and the State of Michigan, and therefore
complainant is not.subject to taxation under act 173, Laws of
1901. . Bank v. Knoop, 16 How. 369; McHenry v. Alford, 168
U. S. 651;,Stearns v. Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223; Railroad Co.
v. St. Louis County, 179 U. S. 302; Bank v. Parker, 192 U. S..
73.
The charter is a contract protected by the Constitution both.

OCTOBER TERM, .1905.
Argument for Appellee.

of the United States and of the State.

.201 U. S.

Greenwood v. Freight

Co., 105 U. S. 13..
A territorial legislature has all the power. of a state legislature, except as limited by the Constitution and by the act of
Congress. Walker v. Southern Pac. Ry.; 165 U. S; 593.
A distinction between an exemption from taxation contained
in a special charter and general encouragement to all persons
to engage in a certain class of enterprise is pointed out in East
Saginaw Co. v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379.
The test of a covenant, according to the court in the Wisconsin & Michigan case, is that the consideration should purport to be the motive for the promise, and the prorise must
purport to- be the motive for the consideration. This test is
met and satisfied in this case. The State proposed the terms
on which it was to get a completed railroad highway, and these
terms were accepted, and by these terms some millions of money
were expended in providing that highway. See New Jersey v.
Yard, 95 U. S. 114..
In the present case, the legislature was making a contract
and not a law, because, first, the statute was passed with reference to this case alone, and not generally as to all;. second, acceptance was provided for and doubtless was made.
The tax limit is part of the charter, and is not such a contract
under the state constitution as to make it subject to amendment. -That it is a contract appears from its form and the
circumstances under which it was made; that is to say, the
need and desire on the part of the people in 1855 to have a
railroad across the State.
No new corporation resulted from the merger.
The act itself speaks'of the transaction as merger, consolidation or purchase, but it is essentially a merger. No new
corporation is created; but the old Detroit & Pontiac Company
is given a new name. The period of its existence is not prolonged. The name is not a controlling circumstance. A new.
corporation might have been created with the old name or a

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY.
201 U. S.

553

Argument for Appellee.

new name given to'the. old corporation, as was done here. But
it is significant that the act declares that the Detroit & Pontiac
Company shall be. kno.,wn hereafter by. the name of the Detroit
&.Milwaukee Railway Company. No new company purchases
or absorbs the property of both companies, but one company
purchases all the property of the other. The charter of the
one continues-; its functions -continue; new stockholders are
admitted. In short, "the Oakland & Ottawa Rail Road Company shall thereupon become merged in the Detroit & Milwaukee Railway Company." The case is covered by Keokuk &
Western Railroad v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301. No new stock
is created. There is no new property to be represented by
stock. See also Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 137; Tomlinson - v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460; Central R. R. v. Georgia,
92 U. S. 665; Wilmington: &c. R. R, v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S.
.
279.
- •
The act of, 1855 is -not repugiant to the constitution. Attorney General v. Joy, 55-Michigan, 94. And the Federal cour-ts
choose to be bound by such deciion. Pennsylvania College,
13'Wall., 190; Cromwell v. County'of Sac, 94U. S.359, 365.
.The statute of 1901 increasing the rate of tax impairs the
obligation of the contract. Pingree v. Michigan Central; 118
Michigan, 314; .New Jersey. v. Yard, supra;.Pearsall v. Great
Northern.R. R., 161 U. S. 663.
This appellee is the identical Detroit'& Pontiac Rail Road
Company, and entitled to enjoy charter rights and immunities
both of that company and of the Detroit & Milwaukee Railway
Company under the amendment 'of 1855. .No new corporations resulted from foreclosure;
A grant of corporate existence, that is,. of a new- corporate
existence, is never implied. In the construction of the-statute
every presumption is against it. Memphis Railroad Company
v., Commissioners, 112 U. S.609, 618; CentralRailroad*& Banking Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, 670. Unless restricted by constitutional: provisions the' legislature has supreme power with
reference to corporations either in endowing them with life or

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

201 U. S.

continuing their existence. Williamette Company v. Bank of
B. C., 119 U. S. 191; Morris v. Railroad, 67 Texas, 692, 700.
Corporate life is not cut short by insolvency. Chemical Bank
v. Hartford, 161 U. S. 4. A reorganization is not necessarily
the, organization of a .new corporation. 2 Clark & Marshall,
Private Corporations, 974. The enlargement of the powers of
a company is not by any means necessarily the creating
of a new corporation. Broughton v. Pensacola, 93 U. S.
266.
The act of 1901 which assumed to enact that this and other
like companies, in whose chartered history there had been a
foreclosure and sale, should thereby become extinct as corporations and get new and different life under the general statute,
or should be deemed to have done so, impaired the charter
tax limit. Wallace'v. Loomis, 97 U. S. 154.
The charter was construed by the legislature as well as by
the courts prior to the act of 1901. See act of 1861 reaffirming
tax limitation. This legislative construction will be followed. Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Southern Pacific
R. R. v. Orton, 32 Fed. Rep. 478; Webster v. Cooper, 14
How. 504.
.This court will follow the decision of the Supreme Court of
the State; and by reason of the long acquiescence in the decision, will hold the State estopped from claiming the contrary.
Wilkes Co. v. Coler, 180 U. S. 506; Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 20.
The terms "capital stock paid in," as used in the charter
tax limit, extend to and mean the corporate property in which
that stock is invested. The company is to pay this tax. The
words "paid in" signify the capital amassed in the treasury.
There is no thought in this language of the shares in the hands
of shareholders. It is capital collected, not capital distributed
among the shareholders. This extends to the corporate property represented by the capital and in which the capital is invested. Railroad Co. v. Gaines, 97 U. S. 697, 707; D., L. '&
W. Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 354.

POWERS V. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY.
201 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Many questions which might otherwise be perplexing are.
settled by the- decision of the Supreme Court of Michigan in
Attorney General v. Joy et al., 55 Michigan, 94. That was an
information brought by the Attorney General in the Supreme
Court of the State, charging the defendants with claiming and
usurping the corporate rights and franchises of the Detroit,
Grand Haven and Milwaukee Railway Company. The act of
1855 was sustained, notwithstandingi some alleged defects in
its passage, and it was decided that it did not create a new corporation but simply authorized the old territorial corporation,
the Detroit and Pontiac Rail Road Company, to change its name
and extend its line of road, and, further, that this act in no
respect confficted with sections 1 and 8, article XV, of the state
constitution. The court also sustained the act of 1859, under
which the foreclosures took place, and held that by them no
new company'was chartered, that there was, simply a reorganization and continuance of the old company.
The latter act provides that upon certain conditions new
stock shall be issued in lieu of the old stock, the old officers of
the company superseded, "and the new stockholders and officers shall, in the law, be deemed and taken to be the stockholders and officers of said corporation, the charter and all laws
appertaining thereto continuing to be the charter and laws
regulating and governing said corporation, except that it may
be known and called, and sue and be sued, and may contract
and do all acts which in the law it could have done in its old
name, in and by the name set forth in the declaration aforesaid" (p. 253).
The testimony in this case shows compliance with these conditions. Compliance was also shown in Cook v.- Detroit, Grand
Haven & Milwaukee Railway Company, 43 Michigan, 349, and
in that case the validity of the new organization as a continuance of the old corporation was recognized.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

We thus come to the question of the effect of section 9 of
the act of -1855. It has been often decided by this court, so
often that a citation of authorities is unnecessary, that the
legislature of a State may, in the absence of special restrictions
in its constitution, make a valid contract with a corporation
in respect to'taxation; and that such contract can be enforced
against the State at the instance.of the corporation. It is said.
that we are not concluded by a decision of the Supreme Court
of a State in reference to the matter of contract; that while
the rule is to accept the construction placed by that court.upon
its statutes, an exception is made in case of contracts, and that
we: exercise an independent judgment upon the question
whether a contract was made, what its scope and terms are,
and also whether there has been any law passed impairing its
obligation. Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S.488. It is in order
to uphold the provision of the Federal Constitution that no
State shall pass a law impairing the obligation- of a contract
that this duty of independent'judgment is cast upon this court.
But here the Supreme Court of the State has ruled in favor of
the continued existence of a corporation and the app~licability
of certain statutes, and when upon the face*of such statutes a.
valid contract appears we accept the ruling that the statutes
are valid and applicable enactments. In other, words, the
Supreme Court 'of the-State having sustained the validityof
a statute from which a contract is claimed, this court follows
that. decision, and starts with the question, what contract is
shown by statute?
The particular section which it is claimed creates the contract (section 9 of the act of. 1855), provides that the company
shall pay an "annual tax of one per cent on the capital stock
of said 'company paid in, which tax shall be in lieu of all other
taxes, except- for penalties imposed upon said company by its
act of incorporationj or any other law of this State." It is
contended in the first place that this is a.mere gratuity, which
can be*Withdrawn at any time, a statute in respect to taxation
subject to change like other revenue statutes, and Wisconsin

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND HAVEN RY.
201 U. S.

557

Opinion of the Court..

& Michigan Railway Company v. Powers, 191 U.S. 379, is cited
as authority. But the difference, between that case and this
is bbvious. That arose on.a general law in respect to taxation;
this on a provision in a special act having reference to a particular corporation, an act which called for and received acceptance by the corporation. It was said in the opinion in
that case (p. 385):
'A distinction between an exemption from taxation contained in a special- charter and general encouragement to all
persons, to engage in a certainclass of enterprise, is-pointed out
in East Saginaw ManfiacturingCompany v. East Saginaw, 13
Wall..373 ('Salt Company' v. East Saginaw'); 7S. C., 19 Mich-,
igan, 259. In earlier and later cases it was mentioned that
there was no counter-obligation, service, or detriment incurred,
that'properly could be regarded as a consideration for the supposed contract. Rector &c. of Christ Church v. Philadelphia
County, 24 How. 300; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22'Wall. 527; Grand
Lodge &c. of Louisiana v. New Orleans, 166 U. S. 143.
The presence dr absence of consideration is an aid- to construction in doubtful cases-a circumstance -to take into account in
determining whether the State has purported to bind itself
irrevocably' or merely -has used wordsof prophecy, encouragement or bounty, holding -out a hope but'not amounting to a'
covenant."
That'there was ample consideratibn for a contract in this
case, if consideration be necessary, is shown by t L opinion of
the Supreme Court in Attorney General v. Joy, "supra,when it
says (p. 101):
"The act of 1855 was not promoted exclusively in the 'interest of the railroad companies named in it; but the State itself
was largely concerned, and expected to accomplish 'important
public purposes by' means of it. Twenty years before that
time the'State had planned for the 'construction of several par-,
allel lines-of railroad across the State from. east to west; one
of which was to be north of the line of the Michigan 'Central
Railroad, and was expected to be'of itry high, value; not only

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

to all that part of the State through which it would run, but
to the whole State. Much disappointment had come from the
road not being constructed; and when the Detroit and Pontiac
Rail Road Company, which already had near thirty miles of road
in successful operation, and could command means for the con-

struction of more, proposed, on certain terms 'which were expressed in the act of 1855, to purchase the rights and franchises
of the Oakland and Ottawa Company, and.to extend their own
road to Lake Michigan, there is no reason for doubting that the
people of the State at large looked upon this as a favorable
opportunity for accomplishing a desire which twenty years before had found expression in the legislation of the State, and
which ever since had been kept constantly in view."
"It has already been seen that the important public purpose
which the State had in view in assenting to the act of 1855 has
been accomplished; the railroad from Pontiac to Lake Michigan
has been constructed and for many years operated, and the
order to accomplish this
State has reaped 'the benefits. But in.
phiblic purpose it seems to have become necessary to put the
bonds and shares of -the Detroit and Milwaukee Railway Company upon' the market as well in Europe as in this country:
the State recognized' the necessity, and by its legislation provided for facilitating sales. The bonds and shares were sold
to the amount of very many millibns; and every -purchaser of
one of them made the purchase in reliance upon legislation of
this State which appeared to sanction if not to invite it"
(p. 104).
See further Home of the Friendlessv. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430, 436,
in which'we said'
"It is objected that there is 'noconsideratioh stated in the
act for the release from taxation, which it is claimed is necessary in order to uphold the contract. But this is a mistaken
view of the law on this subject.
"There is no necessity of looking for the consideration for a

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND AAVEN RY.
201 U.S.

559

Opinion of the Court.

legislative contract outside of the objects for which the corporation was created. These objects were deemed by the legislature to be beneficial to the community, and this benefit constitutes the consideration for the contract, and no other is
required to support it."
Surely no clearer case of contract can be presented than one
in which a legislature passes an act in respect to a particular
corporation making special provision concerning taxation, and
does so with a view of inducing large expenditures by the corporation and the completion of an unfinished- road, whose
completion is deemed of great public importance, and where
the special provision is, as required, formally accepted, the
expenditures made and the road completed.
It is suggested that this provision is not in terms made perpetual. A sufficient answer to this is found in Home of the
Friendlessv. Rouse, supra (p. 437):
"Testing the contract in question by these rules, there does
not seem to be any rational doubt about its true meaning.
'All property of said corporation shall be exempt from taxation,' are the words used in the act of incorporation, and there
is no need of supplying any words to'ascertain the legislative
intention. To addthe word 'forever' after the word 'taxation'
could not make- the meaning any clearer. It was undoubtedly
the purpose of the legislature to grant to-the corporation a
valuable franchise, and it is easy to see that 'the franchise
would be comparatively of little value if the legislature, without taking direct action on the subject, could at its will 're'bme
the power of taxation."
.
It is further contended that the contract provided in section 9 is one relating to the property of the shareholders and
not to that df the corporation. The terms "share," "stock,"
"capital," "capital stock" are of frequent and not uniform
use, and we have often to turn to the'context to see what is indistinction extended by its use in a particular case. That a
ists between that which is the property of the several shareholders and subject to taxation as other property belonging
'

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

to them,, and that which. is the property of the collective incorporated person we call a corporation, and subject to taxation as
such, has been repeatedly pointed out. See Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679; RailroadCompanies v. Gaines, 97'U. S. 697;
Railway Company v. Loftin, 98 U. S. 559; Bank v.' Tennessee,
104 U. S., 493; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129; Bank
of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134; Shelby County v.
Union &c. Bank,. 161 U. S. 149; Central Railroad &c. Company
v. Wright, 164 U. S.327; New Orleans v. Citizens'. Bank, 167
U.-S. 371; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 17Z U. S.
664; Citizens':Bank v. Parker, 192 U. S.73; Delaware, L. &c.
Railroad Company v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341.
In the first of these cases a bank's charter provided that the
company "shall pay. to the State an annual tax of one-half of
'one per cent on each share of the capital stock subscribed,
which shall be in lieu of all other taxes,." and it was held that
that was a contract in reference to the property of the.shareholders, and prevented further taxation upon their separate
property. In the opinion it was said (pp. 686, 687).:
"The capital stock and the shares of the capital stock are
distinct things.. The capital stock is the, money paid or authorized or. required to be paid in as the basis -of the business of. the bank, and the means of- conducting its operations.
The.capital stock and the shares may both be taxed,
and it is not double-taxation.."
In the second is this ruling (p_ 707):
"In general, an exemption of capital stock, without more,
may, with great propriety, be considered, under ordinary circumstances, as-exempting that which, in the ,legitimate operations of the corporation, comes to represent the capital."
And in Tennessee v. Whitworth, supra,p. 136, this description
of separable elements of value was given:
"In corporations four elements of taxable -value are sometimes found: .1,-franchises; 2, capital stock in the hands :of the
corporation; 3, corporate property; and, 4, shares of the capital stock in the hands of the individual stockholders. Each

POWERS v. DETROIT'& GRAND HAVEN RY.
201- U. S.

561

Opinion of the Court.

of these is, under some circumstances, an appropriate subject
of taxation."
In several of the cases attention is called to the qualifying
words which show- an intent on the part of the.legislature, of
something other than that generally embraced within the term
"capital stock." But itis'unneeessary to review these cases
detail.
in'
By section 9 the tax is "on the capital stock of said company
-paid in." Clearly that refers' to the property which the corporation has received and .presumably holds. It is not the
individual property of the shareholders which is contemplated,
but that which is in the treasury of the corporation, or included
among its assets. This, as we have seen, is the ordinary
meaning, of the term ".capital stock.' Further, we find that
this tax is -tobe "in lieu of all other taxes, except for penalties
imposed upon said company." In other words, the tax upon
the company of one per cent may be increased by penalties
imposed upon the company and in noother way. Again,
the tix - is to, ':be estimated upon the last annual report- of
said corporation.'! -. While such 'report might be expected to
include not' merely the property' belonging to the' corporation
but also the nui ber and names' of the stockholders and the
number of shares held by each,; and possibly also the amount
paid in by.each, yet the word:"estimate'd"'carries with it
the idea of valuation rather than of 'mathematical apportipment. It suggests that the property reported by -the. corporation is to be the basis -upon which' the assessors shall
make their valuation, so that the tax is "'estimated" upon
that property rather than fixed by the mere process of multiplication or division. That the tax is to be paid by the company is of course not conclusive on the question, but it is in
harmony with all the' other provisions of the section. Still
further, we have the practical construction placed by the
authorities -0r a -long series of years-continued up to the
year '1898. Under those circumstances we are of. opinion'
that the tax provided for by section 9 is a tax upon the propVOL. cci-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

erty of the corporation and not, a tax upon the shares of stock
held by the shareholders. There was, however, a contract
between the State and the corporation which prevented the
subjection. of the property of the corporation to any other
than the tax prescribed in the statute.
The decree of the Circuit Court is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

HADDOCK 'v. HADDOCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
N6. 119. Argued December 11 1905.-Decided April 12. 196.
The husband and wife being domiciled in New York, the husband left the
wife, acquired, in good faith, after a lapse of years, a domicil in Connecticut, and obtained in-that State, and in accordance with its laws, a judgment of divorce based on constructive, and not actual,, service of process,
on the wife, who meanwhile remained domiciled in New York and never
appeared in the action. The' wife subsequently sued for divorce in
New York and obtained personal service in that State on the, husband
*who pleaded the Connecticut jddgment. Held,
Without questioning.the power of the State of Connecticut to enforce the
decree within its own borders, and w'ithout ntimating any doubt that the
State of Ne.r York might give it such degree of efficacy that' it might be
entitled 'to in view of the public policy of. the State, that the Connecticut
:decree, rendered as it was without being based on personal gervice of the
process on, and therefore without personal jurisdiction of' the court over,'
the wife, 'was not entitled to obligatory enforcement in the: State of
New 'York b" virtue' of the full faith-and credit clause of the Federal'
' '
11
., ,
Constitution.
A suit for divorce brought in-a State other than that of domicil of matrimony against a wife' who is still domiciled therein is not'a proceeding
in rem justifying the court to enter a ,decree as to the res, or marriage
relation, entitled -to .be enforced. outside of the teritorial jurisdiction
.of the court.
,.
Questions concerning alleged fraud in contracting a marriage and laches
"bn"'the part of' one'of the parties in 'bringing 'an action for divorce are
matters solelyof state cognizance and may' not even be allowed to in-

