OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

201 U. S.

its penalties adjusted.,r As the Standard established can be
proved in the hands of a producing vendor, he is exempt from
the penalty; as it cannot certainly be proved in the hands of
other vendors so as to prevent evasions of the law, such vendors
are not exempt. In the one case the source of milk can be
known and the tests of the statute applied; in the other case
this would be impossible, except in few instances. We cannot
see that any particular hardship results. The non-producing
vendor must exercise care in his purchases, and good all around
may be accomplished. Through penalty on the non-producing
vendor the producer is ultimately reached, though he may
seem to be indulged. He will have to raise the standard of the
milk of his herd if he would keep or extend his trade, as anything but a mere retailer of his product.
Judgment affirmed.

RAWLINS v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT
No. 547.

OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

Argued April 6. 1006.-Decided April 16, 1906.

If the state constitution and laws in regard to selection of jurors, as construed by the state court, are consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment, this court can go no further, and will not revise the decision of the
state court as to whether the local law has been coriiplied with.
There is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment which prevents a State
from excluding and exempting from jury duty certain classes on the
bona fide ground that it is for the good of the community that their
regular work should not be interrupted.
Even when persons liable to jury duty under the state laws are excluded
it is no ground for challenge to the array, if a sufficient number of unexceptionable persons are present.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Randolph Cooper, with whom Mr. Oscar M. Smith
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

RAWLINS v. GEORGIA
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John C. Hart for defendant in error, submitted, the
court declining to hear oral argument.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error were indicted for murder, tried, and
found guilty. Leonard Rawlins was sentenced to the penitentiary for life, and the others were sentenced to be hanged.
When the grand jury was organized each of the accused filed
a written challenge to the array, on the ground that "while
there are in Lowndes County many lawyers, many preachers,
ministers, many doctors, many engineers and firemen of railroad trains, and many dentists, as many as ten of each class
named, or other large number of each of said class, all citizens
and residents of said county, and being competent and qualified jurors, as to age and uprightness, experience and intelligence, and as to all the legal qualifications of a juror, yet each
and every one of these classes of citizens, and each and every
member thereof in the county, is expressly and purposely excluded from the grand jury service by the commissioners failing
and refusing to put any of said names in the box, so that, not
being in the box, they can not be legally drawn for seryice."
The challenge was repeated as a plea in abatement, and the
petit jury was challenged on the same ground. Rights under
the Fourteenth Amendment were specially set up and claimed.
The challenges and pleas were overruled subject to exceptions.
The exceptions were overruled by the Supreme Court of the
State, 52 S. E. Rep. 1, and a writ of error was taken out to
bring the case to this court.
At the argument before us the not uncommon misconception
seemed to prevail that the requirement of clue process of law
took up the special provisions of the state constitution and
laws into the Fourteenth Amendment for the purposes of the
case, so that this court would revise the decision of the state
court that the local provisions had been complied with. This
is a mistake. If the state constitution and laws as construed

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

by the-state court are consistent .with the Fourteenth Amendment, we can go no further. The only question for us is,
whether a State could authorize the course of proceedings
adopted, if that course were prescribed by its constitution in
express terms.
When the question is narrowed to. its proper form the answer
does not need much discussion. The nature of the classes exclud~d was not such as was likely to affect the conduct of the
members as jurymen, or to make them act otherwise than those
who were drawn would act. The exclusion was not the result
of race or class prejudice. It does not even appear that any
of the.defendants belonged to any of the excluded classes. The
ground of omission no doubt was that pointed out by the state
court, that the business of the lpersons omitted was such that
either they would have been entitled to claim exemption or that
probably they would have been excused. Even when persons
liable to jury duty under the state laws are excluded it is no
ground for challenge to the array, if a sufficient number of unexceptionable persons are present. People v. Jewett, 3 Wend.
314. But if the state law itself should exclude certain classes
on the bona fide ground that it was for the good of the community that their regular work should not -be interrupted, there
is nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent it. The
exemption of lawyers, ministers of the gospel, doctors, and
engineers of railroad trains, in short substantially the exemption complained of, is of old standing and not uncommon in
the United States. It could not be denied that the State properly could have excluded these classes had it seen fit, and that
undeniable proposition ends the case.
Judgment affirmed.

