DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Syllabus.

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 102. Argued -December 5, 6, 1905.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The general rule that courts of the United States have no jurisdiction upon
the subject of divorce or for allowance of alimony, because diversity of
citizenship does not exist and no pecuniary value is involved, has no
application to territorial courts or to the appellate jurisdiction of this
court over those courts.
The Territorial Practice Act of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, under which the
jurisdiction of this court does not extend to reexamining the facts but
is limited to determining whether the findings support the judgment
and to reviewing errors as to admission or rejection of testimony on exceptions duly takpn, has no application to appeals from the Philippine
Islands.
Under § 10 of the-act of'July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691, appeals are allowed from
judgments .of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands where the
amount exceeds $25,000, in the same manner as from judgments of the
Circuit Courts of the United States, and such appeals extend to an ex•amination of the facts as well as the law, and where alimony or separation
of conjugal property has been awarded by the decree of divorce amount-

468. Ann Arbor'Railroad Company v.-Same.
469." Cincinnati, Saginaw & Mackinaw Railroad C mpany v,. Same.
470. Chicago, Detroit & Canada Grand Trunk Junction Railroad Company
v. Same.'

471.
472.
473.
474.
475.
476.
477.
478.
479.
480.
481.
482.
483.
484.
485.
486.
487.

Munising Railway Company V. Same.
Lake Superior & Ishpeming Railway Company v. 'Same.
Marquette & Southeasten Railway Company v. Same. "
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company v. Same.
Sault Ste. Marie Bridge Company v. Same.
Mineral Range Railroad Company v. Same.
Duluth, South Shore & Atlantic Railway Company v. Same.
Detroit, -Grand Haven & Milwaukee Railway Company v. Same.
Pontiac, Oxford & Northern Railroad Company v. Same.
Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste. Marie Railway Company v. Same.
Copper Range Railroad Company v. Same.
Gogebic & Montreal'River Railroad Company v. Same.
Manistee & Southeastern Railroad Company v. Same.
Escanaba & Lake Superior Railroad Company v. Same,
Grand Rapids & Indiana Railway Company v. Same.
Wisconsin & Michigan Railway Company v. Same.'
Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Company v. Same.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

ing to over $25,000 and this court takes jurisdiction of the appeal by
reason of the amount involved it may, if necessary to determine whether
the. decree was right in that respect, pass upon the sufficiency of the
testimony authorizing or refusing the divorce.
For the purposes of the jurisdiction of this court it makes no difference
whether the amount claimed by the wife in a suit for divorce in the
Philippine Islands be termed alimony or her share of community property.
Under § 10 of the Philippine Island Act of 1902 appeals are allowed in all
cases where the amount in controversy exceeds $25,000-and this court
has no power to create an exception not made in the statute;. it would
be judicial legislat on.
The abandonment by the husband of his wife, excluding her from, his house'
and forming open and illicit relations with other women who bear him
children, is sufficient to bring his adultery within the rule of law in the
Philippine Islands that adultery of the husband must be accompanied by
public scandal and disgrace to the wife in order to entitle her to a divorce.
In this case the Court of First instance, on uncontradicted evidence as to
the husbnd's adultery and scandal ensuing therefrom, found that the
wife was entitled to a divorce and tl at there was no adultery on her part;'
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands found that the wife had
committed adultery, basing the finding on a letter written by her and
construed to be in the nature of a confession, and for that reason alone
reversed the judgment. On examining the record this court holds that
such letter .does not amount to.a confession, and that .there is insufficient evidence of her having committed adultery, and therefore reverses
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands.

TIns was aosuit brought in the Court of First Instance of the
province of Iloilo by the appellant as plaintiff against her husband, the defendant, for a judicial separation or divorce a mensa
et thoro, and equal separation 'f the property of the conjugal
partnership, for an allowance to the plaintiff for her support
during the pendency of the action, and for counsel fees, costs
and general relief, upon the ground, of the husband's adultery
and the public scandal and disgrace thereby brought upon the
plaintiff.
In his answer defendant alleged, by way of recrimination,
adultery on the part of the wife, denied the existence of any
community property, and prayed for a divorce without alimony.
-Upon the trial, the court decreed a divorce to the plaintiff
on account of her husband's adultery, as well as the payment

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

of $81,042.76, Mexican money, due her as her unpaid share of
the property belonging to the conjugal partnership, as-well as
the -suni of $3,200, Mexican money, as an allowance for her support since the date upon which the action was instituted, being
at the rate of four hundred pesos a month for eight months,
with costs.
After motion for a new trial had been made and overruled,
defendafit appealed to the. Supreme Court, Which reversed the
decree of the -court below, incorporated in its opinion certain
findings of fact, and ordered judgment, absolute that the' complaint be dismissed.
. Whereupon plaintiff appealed to this court under section 10
of the act of July 1, 1902, to provide a temporary civil government in the Philippine Islafids, 32 Stat. 691 i 695, a copy of
which section is given in the margin. 1
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury
for the appellant:
This case, involves the jurisdictional amount and an appeal
lies tQ; this court. 32 U. S. Stat., p. 695. , A money judgment,
although an incident to a divorce suit, confers jurisdiction.
Simms v. Simms, 175 U. S.. 62. This court can and should
review the facts as in appeals from the District. of Columbia.
Rev. Stat. § 705; 27 Stat. 434; Beyer V. Letevre 186 U. S. 114.
1 "Siec. 10. That the Supreme Court of the Uniied States shall have.
jurisdiction to review., revise, reverse, modify, or affirm the final judgments
and decrees of the Supreme Court, of the Philippine Islands in all actions,

cases, causes and proceedings now pending: therein, or hereafter, determined
thereby,, in which the Constitution or any statute, treaty, title, right or
privilege of the United States'is involved, or in causes in which the value
in controversy exceeds twenty-five thousand. dollars, or in: which the title
or possession of real estate exceeding in value the sum of twentyfive thousand dollars to be ascertained by the oath of either party or of other competent witnesses, is involved or brought in question; and such final judgments or decrees may and can be revi~wed revised, -reversed, modified or
affirmed by said Supreme Court of the United States on appeal or writ of
error by the party aggrieved, in the same manner, under the same regulations, and by the same procedure, as'far as applicable, as the final judgments
and decrees of the Circuit Courts of the.United States."
VOL.

cci-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U. S.

An appeal, as distinguished from a writ of error, brings up the
facts as well as the law, and even the concurrent findings of
two courts below will be reversed, if clearly in conflict with
the evidence. Wiscart v. d'Auchy, 3 Dall. 321; Johnson v.
Hdrmon, 94 U. S. 371; Stuartv. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1; The
Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655; Towson v. Moore, 173 U. S. '17;
Illinois v. Ill. C. R. R. Co., 184 U. S. 77; Shapirio v. Goldberg,
192 U. S. 232. Aliter, in appeals from Territorial Courts, in
which the evidence at large is not returned. 18 Stat. 27; Idaho
& Oieg: Lehid Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S.'509.
The evidence in support of the allegation of plaintiff's adultery is full of contradictions and improbabilities, and indicates
a conspiracy' The letter of March 6, 1899, is not a confession
6f guilt.
The parties cohabited matrimonially after the time when defendant claims to have discbvered his wife's alleged adultery.
This' disproves' the charges against, plaintiff and also operates
as a condonation of any prior offense. Condonation bars the
defense of recrimination and restores the matrimonial union to
its original status. The restored spouse may obtain a divorce
from the other spouse subsequently guilty of adultery. Partidas VI, Tit. 9, Law 6; Sanchez De Sancto Matrimonii Sacramento, Lib. X, Disp. VII, n. 1, Disp. VI, n. 7, pp. 335, 336;
Anichini v. Anichini, 2 Curt. Ec. 210; Sellers v. Sellers, 1 Swab.
,,& Tr. 482; Goode v. Goode, 2:Swab. & Tr. 48; Jones v. Jones,
3 C. E. Green (N. J.), 33; Morrell v. Morrell, 1 Barb. (N. Y.)
318'; Bishop on"Marriage, Div. & Sep. vol. II, sec. 405; 9 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed. 821. Section 106, Philippine Civil
Code, merely establishes recrimination as a defense. Partidas
VI, Tit.' 2, Law 8, deals only with the marital relations of the
parties pending a divorce suit. It is an elaboration of the provision of Instit. Lib. II, Tit. XVI, of the Corpus Juris Canonici,
that during the suit separation 'a thoro is not necessarily required. See also Ballerini, Opus Theol. Mor.' vol. VI, p. 380,
n. 788; Gaspari, Con Treat. on Mat. vol. II, p. 328, par. 1366;
Evernz on Matrimony, vol. IV, p. 1069, h. 117.

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The rule contended for is the only one to conserve morality.
Under arjy other a husband who had once forgiven an erring
wife would have a perpetual license to live in continuous adultery himself.
The findings of the Court of First Instance were not plainly
and manifestly against the weight of evidence and the Philippine Supreme Court' was not authorized to make new findings
upon the facts and order judgment absolute against the plaintiff under Philippine Code Civ. Proc. sec.. 497, subd. 3. The
defendant's motion for a new trial was irregular and insufficient.
The evidence was conflicting, and the question was chiefly of
the credibility of witnesses. This was a question for the trial
court, not for an appellate tribunal. Davis v. Schwartz, 155
U. S. 631; Crawford v. Neal, 144 U. S. 585; Kimberly v. Arms,
129 U. S. 512; Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136. It cannot
have been the intention of the statute to empower the Appellate
Court to order judgment absolute in such cases.
There was no appearance for the appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court,
An important question of jurisdiction is presented by the
record in this case. It has been a long established rule that the
courts of the.United States have no jurisdiction upon the subject of divorce, or for the allowance of alimony, either as an
origifal proceeding in chancery, or an incident of a divorce or
separation, both by reason of fact that the husband and wife
cannot usually be citizens of different States, so long as the
marriage relation continues (a rule which has been somewhat
relaxed in recent cases), and for the further reason that a suit
for divorce in itself involves no pecuniary value. Barber V.
Barber,21 How. 582, and the analogous cases of Kurtz v. Moffitt,
115 U. S. 487; Durham v. Seymour, 161 U. S. 235, and Perrine
v. Slack, 164 U. S. 452,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

But-the general rule above stated has no application to the
jurisdiction of the territorial courts, or of, the appellate jurisdiction of this court over those courts. Hence, we held in
Simms v. Simms, 175 U. S. 162, that an appeal lies from a .decree.of the Supreme Court of a Territory dismissing the suit of
a husband for a divorce and awarding to a wife alimony and
counsel fees, amounting in all to more than $5,000, so far as
the decree fixes the alimony. This was an appeal from the
Supreme Court of Arizona, and the court held that the above
considerations expressed in Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582, had
no application to the appellate jurisdiction of this court over
the courts of a Territory; that Congress, having entire dominion
and sovereignty over Territories, "has full legislative power
over all subjects upon which the legislature of the State might
legislate within the State; and may, at its discretion entrust
that power to the legislative assembly of a Territory," citing
Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682. It was further held that so far as
the question of divorce was concerned, the decree could not be
reviewed by this court, "both because that was a matter the
value of which could not be estimated in money; and because
the refusal of, the divorce involved no matter of law, but mere
questions of fact depending on the evidence, and which this
court is not authorized to reexamine." It was further said
"the decree for alimony and counsel fees, although in one sense
an incident to the suit for divorce, is a distinct and severable
final judgment in favor of 'the defendant for a sum of money
of a sufficient jurisdictional amount, and is therefore good
ground of appeal." The appeal in that case did not involve
,themerits.
The intimation that this court could not review the refusal
of the divorce because it could not reexamine questions of fact
was undoubtedly thrown out in view of the Territorial Practice
Act of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, providing that "on appeal"
(from a territorial court) "instead of the evidence at large, a
statement of the facts of the' case in the nature of a special
verdict,' and also the rulings of the court on the admission or

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rejection of evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court below, and transmitted to the Supreme Court,
together with the transcript of the proceedings and judgment
or decree."
Since that act was passed we have always held that the jurisdiction of this court on an appeal from the Supreme Court
of a Territory did not extend to a reexamination of the facts,
but was limited to determining whether the findings of fact
supported the 'judgment, and to reviewing errors in the admission or rejection of testimony, when exceptions have been duly
taken to the action of the court'in this particular. Stringfellow
v. Cain, 99 U. S.610; Eilers v. Boatman, 111 U. S.356; Idaho
&c.'Land Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S.509; Mammoth Mining
Company v. Salt Lake Machine Co., 151 U. S.447; Young v.
Amy, 171 U. S. 179.
This act, however, has no application to the Philippine Islands, appeals from the Supreme Court of which are regulated
by section 10 of the act of July I, 1902, 32 Stat. 691, wherein it
is declared that appeals from the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands shall extend to all actions, cases, causes and pro:
ceedings "in which the value in controversy exceeds $25,000."
These are. reviewable on appeal or writ of error by the party
aggrieved, in the same manner as the final judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of the United States. There is no
requirement that the facts shall be found. Appeals from the
final decrees in these (Circuit) courts extend to an examination
of the facts a well as the law. While upon such review this
court will generally accept the concurrent conclusions of the
trial and appellate courts, yet, as was said by Mr. Justice
Brewer in Beyer v. LeFevre, 186 U. S. 114, 119: "There has
always been recognized the right and duty of this court to examine the record, and if it finds that the conclusions are wholly
unwarranted by the testimony it will set the verdict or report
aside and direct a reexamination."
In this case there was no finding of facts either by the Court
of First Instance, or by the Supreme Court of the Islands, ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

cept as they appear in the opinion. It is doubtful whether
this is a finding of facts within the statute, Lehnen v. Dickson,
148 U. S. 71; British Queen Mining Co. v. Baker Silver Mining
Co., 139 U. S. 222; Dickinson v. Planters' Bank, 16 Wall. 250;
Saltonstall v. Birtwell, 150 U. S. 417; Stone v. United States,
164 U. S. 380, but in any event it is not binding upon us in the
absence of an authority to make it.
While, as indicated in Simms v. Simms, the decree for alimony, although in one sense an incident to the suit for divorce,
is a distinct and final judgment for a sum of money, and is
therefore a good ground for appeal from that.part of the decree; yet, where the appeal is from the whole decree (as in this
case), or even from a part of the decree, and the denial of alimony or separation of the conjugal property depends upon the
evidence which bears upon the right to a divorce, we cannot
determine that question without passing upon the sufficiency
of the testimony authorizing or refusing the divorce. An appeal from the decree for alimony or other property right would
be of no value whatever, unless the facts connected with the
allowance or refusal of such right were open to review in the
appellate court. Although an appeal from a part of a decree
does not bring up the part not appealed from, yet, if the whole
decree must be reviewed in order to decide the appeal, such
appeal brings up the entire record. Kelsey v. Western, 2 N. Y.
500; Union Trust Company v. Trumbull, 137 Illinois, 146, 159;
Walker v. Pritchard, 121 Illinois, 221, 227. The case is even
stronger where the appeal is taken from the whole decree.
The hardship of denying an appeal in this .case, as well as
review of the testimony upon the subject of divorce, is apparent
when the peculiar provisions of the Philippine Code are considered.
By article 1315: "Persons who may be joined in matrimony
may, before celebrating it, execute contracts, etc. In the absence of contracts relating to property, it shall be understood
that the marriage has been contracted under the system of
legal conjugal partnership."

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Article 1401: "To the conjugal partnership shall belong:
"1. Property acquired for a valuable consideration during
the marriage at the expense of the partnership property,
whether the acquisitioi is made for the partnership or for one
of the spouses only.
"2. -That obtained by the industries, salaries, or work of the
spouses or of either of them;
"3. The fruits, income, or interest, collected or accrued during the marriage, coming from the partnership property, or
from that which .belongs to either one of the spouses."
Article 1392" "By virtue of the conjugal partnership the
earnings or profits indiscriminately obtained by either of the
spouses during the marriage shall belong to the husband and
wife, share and share alike, upon the dissolution of the marriage."
Article 1407: "All the property of the marriage shall be considered as partnership property until it is proven that it belongs exclusively to the husband or to the wife."
Article 73: "A decree of divorce shall pfoduce the foilowing
effects:
"Sub. 3. The guilty spouse shall lose all that has been given
or promised him or her by the innocent one oif by any other
person in consideration for the latter; and the innocent spouse
shall keep all that he or she has received from the guilty one,
being permitted, besides, to claim forthwith all that may have
been promised by the same."
In the opinion of the Court of First Instance it is stated that
the plaintiff received from her mother two thousand pesos,
which, with interest amounting to three hundred and, forty-five
pesos, must be regarded as the portion contributed by the wife
to the conjugal partnership. For the purposes of jurisdiction
it make no difference whether the amount, elamed be.termed
alimony or the wife's share of the community property. It is
sufficient that she claimed to be entitled to am amount exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars,, and t st tbe! clhim: was not
baseless is shown by the decree of the Cuirt of First, Instance

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

allowing it. By the decree of the Supreme Court she was denied
al recovery of any description, upon the ground of her adultery.
If 7upon a review of the testimony it were found that she was
not guilty of adultery, she would unquestionAl~y be entitled
to one-half of the conjugal property.
As section 10 of the Philippine statute above cited allows an
appeal to this court from "judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in all actions, cases,
causes and proceedings.

in which the value in con-

troversy exceeds twenty-five 'thousand dollars," we: know of
no power in this court to create an exception where the statute
has made none. Such a decision would be a plain case of judicial legislation.
Our conclusion upon this branch of the case is that the appeal was properly taken, and that it calls for a reexamination
of the grounds upon which the petition for a separation of the
conjugal property and alimony pendente lite was denied.
2. In her complaint ' the plaintiff charges abandonment by
her husband without cause, and also adultery with three women,
by each of whom he had children, and which resulted in public
scandal and the disgrace of'the plaintiff. In his answer defendant denies that he abandoned the plaintiff without sufficient
cause, and avers that "he ejected her from his house on account
of indignation," created by her adultery with a Spanish corporal; he denies the various allegations of adultery charged
against him, and says that even if they are true, they are nothing more than the "necessary consequences of the indescribable
conduct of the plaintiff."
The parties were married in July, 1891, 'she being fourteen
years of age and he twenty-three, and lived happily together
for about thirteen months, when in August, 1892, a separation
ensued.
Upon the trial the defendant made no denial of his adulteries,
but simply declined to answer any questions on the subject.
His adultery, however, with three separate women and the
birth of a child by each was proven to the satisfaction of both

DE LA RAMA' v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

courts below, and was not attempted to be disproved by evidende on the part of. the defendant. - Under the Spanish law
the adultery of the husband, tobe a good ground for separation,.
must be accompanied by public scandal and disgrace of the
wife. Although there is no evidence that the husband "ejected
her from his house on account of indignation," as set up. in his
answer, the fact that he abandoned his wife, excluded her from
his house, and formed open and illicit relations with three other
'Women who bore him a family of children, is quite sufficient
evidence that his adultery was accompanied by public scandal
'and disgrace to the wife.
There was a-difference of opinion between the trial court and
'the Supreme Court as to the adultery of the plaintiff. This is
the principal contested fact in the case. The question really
'is, whether the finding of the Court of First 'Instance, that the
plaintiff had not committed adultery, was so manifestly against
the weight of evidence that the Supreme Court was justified in
reversing it.

B section 497 of the Code of Civil Procedure it is enacted
that "the Supreme Court shall not review the evidence taken
in the. court below, nbr retry the questions' of fact, except,
3. If' the excepting party filed a motion in the Court

6f First. Instance for a new trial, upon'the ground that the
findings of, fact wete plainly and manifestly against the weight of
evidence, and the judge overruled said motion, and due exception was taken to his overruling the-same, the-Supreme Court
may review the evidence, " ,etc.
'
The defendant did move for a new trial in the Court of First
Instance on the grbund that the "conclusions which in said decision have been deducted from the facts are contradictory to
what the evidence filed in this case have shown."
This is not a literal compliance with section 497, above cited,
as it is not stated that the findings of fact are plainly and manifestly against the weight of the evidence. It seems rather to
fall within the terms of section i45 of the Code of Civil Proce,dure, by the terms of which the- Court of First Instance may, at

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

any time during the term at which the action has been tried,
set aside the judgment and grant a new trial on the ground that
"the evidence was insufficient to justify the decision, or that
it is against the law." But in this connection it is also provided by section 146 that the "overruling or granting of a motion for a new trial shall not be a ground of exception, but
shall be deemed to have been an act of discretion on the part
of the judge."
Defendant also prepared a bill of exceptions containing the
evidence upon which the hearing was had in theSupreme Court.
Under the circumstances, and waiving the question whether
there was such a motion for a new trial, as is contemplated bysection 497, we are of the opinion-that the judgment of the Court
of First Instance should not have been reversed, unless the
findings of that court-were plainly and manifestly against the
weight, of the evidence.
The adultery charged upon the plaintiff is said to have been
committed with one Corporal Zabal of the Civil Guard at Talisay, where the parties then lived. The principal testimony
establishing that fact is that of Apolonia Aurelio, a confidential
servant, who swears she entered the services of the plaintiff in
1891; that the corporal used to frequent the plaintiff's house
during the absence of the husband, who was wont to- leave home
to inspect his haciendas; that plaintiff habitually visited the,
quarters of the Civil Guard for the purpose of meeting Zabal,
and that Zabal was also in the habit of going to the plaintiff's
house at ten o'clock at night and remaining until morning;
that defendant became acquainted with these facts from a letter
written by plaintiff to be sent to Zabal at the quarters of the
Civil Guard, but purloined by the witness and given to defendant. This letter, which upon the theory of the defendant
would have furnished conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's
adultery, was destroyed. The letter, if written at all, was
written in May, yet her husband continued to live with her
until August, when he carried her to her parents in the town
of Vallodolid, apparently for a visit, cohabited with her there,

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and then abandoned her. His version is that he took her to
her mother on the same or the next day after he discovered the
letter, and that he did not cohabit with her there, although he.
occupied the same room, in which there was but one bed.
Little reliance was placed upon the testimony of Apolonia by
either of the courts below, as it appeared that she did not enter
the service of the plaintiff until the year 1893, after the couple
had separated, and that she was then sent by the husband to
the wife as a servant. She lso told a most improbable story
of always sleeping in the room of the plaintiff during her husband's absence, and even while the corporal was there. The
Court of First Instance found that the attitude of the witness
was apparently hostile to the plaintiff by reason of the fact that
Apolonia was about to marry a man whom the plaintiff disliked, and the plaintiff had punished her.
Upon the other hand, the Court of First Instance did not
hesitate to say that the attitude of the plaintiff during the trial
of the case was such as to impress the court very favorably in
her behalf. "Her entire bearing was that of a modest, retiring,
self-respecting and conscientious woman." There was testimony tending to show that Apolonia did not want to testify,
but was given two packages of paper money in order to induce
her to do so, and that another witness was also paid for his
testimony. The .testimony of Apolonia is to a certain extent
bolstered up by that of three or four men, whose intelligence
was evidently of such a low order that they can scarcely deserve to be called corroborating. witnesses. The judge of the
court came to the conclusion that "the testimony of this woman is too uncertain and too suspicious to justify any court in
declaring the plaintiff guilty of adultery, especially wher the
worthlessness and the dubious character of the testimony of
the other witnesses for the defendant on this subject increase
the probability of the existence of something in the nature of
a conspiracy to destroy the case of the plaintiff, and to support
that of the defendant in the present action."
As, already stated, these parties were married in July, 1891,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905:.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

the plaintiff then being but fourteen years of age. The intrigue With Zabal, if it occurred at all, took place within thirteen months thereafter, as the parties separated in August,
1892. The story that a bride of fourteen, happily married and
living in comfort if not in luxury, should immediately after her
marriage enter into a liaison with a .common soldier, should re-'
ceive him at her house in the presence of her servants, without
an attempt at concealment, spend the night with him with her
confidential maid apparently sleeping in the same room, should
openly visit his quarters at night, taking her maid with her, is
so improbable that it should only be accepted upon evidence
leaving no other legitimate conclusion to be drawn from it except that of adultery. The inference that this testimony was
fabricated was so strong that the courts below were fully .justified in disregarding it. The Court of First Instance discarded
it entirely. The Supreme Court evidently placed no reliance
upon it, but found conclusive evidence of adultery in a letter
written in March, 1899, .by,the plaintiff to her husban*d.
This letter, which was written seven years after their separation, is printed in the margin. 1 'We do not regard it asby any
' The letter of.March 6, 1899, addressed by the plaintiff to the defendant
reads as follows:
"My respected and unforgetable Esteban:
"Pardon that I disturb your tranquility, E., that in the midst of a profound sentiment that afflicts me I find consolation for my profound grief
in addressing the man who loved me in the time of my good fortune, and
who led me to the altar before the eyes of the being whom we most love,
God. Remember me; let fall a drop of compassion 'from your soul; look
at me back again with your cheerful eyes at the woman who is watching
for you. I know well that you are very disgusted with me, and for just
reason-for having claimed my pension. Be calm, quiet yourself, reflect
a moment for my situation, which I will explain to you.
"When you went to Europe, mother went to see you to explain our
situation to you, and you answered that it had nothing to do with you.
She insulted you, Esteban; you had reason to be offended.
"Now, regarding my having demanded my pension, you are also in the
right, but pardon my impudence in stating what I have to say:
"I swear to you, E., and call God to witness, that when you went to
Spain, my pain was unbearable thinking of my fatal misfortune. I had
become completely desperate, and Orozco wrote and advised me to de-

DE LA RAMA v. DE LA RAMA.
201 U. S.

Opinion.of the Court.

means conclusive. While it is perhaps susceptible of the construction put upon it by the husband, it is entirely consistent
with the theory that she had-been abandoned by her husband
without cause; was left in a desperate state of mind, was anxious to regain his favor, and to make any sacrifice to induce him
to take her back and resume their former relations. She hints
at no misconduct of her own, but intimates that he is disgusted
with her, and for just reason, for having claimed her pension..
She says that when he.went to Spain. her pain was unbearable;
that she had become c6mpletely desperate, and was advised to
demand her pensi6n because of the fact that he was going to
reside abroad permanently, and she finally commenced proceedings in view of her desperate situation. So far from confessing adultery, she says that if those who wished her ill "have
told you more, they have made a mistake, for the truth about
my comportment is that it cannot be complained of." There
is nothing indicating that after their separation her conduct
had not been irreproachable.
Tlie paragraph much relied. upon is as follows: "I keep
yet on my face the shame of what has happened, notwithstanding that it has been already many years since we parted.
mand my pension -in view of the faot that you were going to reside permanently in Spain; then I finally did commence proceedings in view of
my 'desperate situatiou, and nothing further came of the matter during
your absence.
"If the Lacsons, who wish me ill, have told you more, they have.made
a mistake, for the truth about my comportment is that it cannot be complained of; you can secure information regarding my conduct during our
separation here in Valladolid.
"I keep yet on my face the shame of what has happened, notwithstanding .that it has been already many years since we parted. Therefore, my
husband, forgive me; erase what has happened, remember me for God's
love; behold our dark fate. In you I trust my future.
"E., I have heard that. you have had some misfortunes. I send my
sympathy, although I am unworthy of your presence.
"I also learn from Modesto that you do not wish to have my pension
sent. Do as you wish.
"Good-bye, E., take good care of yourself, and command,
."Your faithful servant Q. B. S. P.,
"March 6, 1899.
"AGuEDA
Bam jmro."

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Therefore, my husband, forgive me; erase what has happened;
remember me for God's love; behold our dark fate. In you
I trust my future." This;is by no means necessarily a confession of guilt.
The letter is that of a broken-hearted woman, who is willing
to make any sacrifice necessary to be restored to her husband's
favor and to submit to any humiliation necessary to regain his
'affection. She makes no confession of adultery, points to her
"comportment" since their separation as showing nothing that
could be complained of, but in her frequent repetition of the
claim she had made for her. pension points to that as the source
of her husband's disgust. Bearing in mind that her husband
had seduced her when she was only thirteen years of age, and'

thatsince their separation, and for nearly a decade, he had not
only repudiated her, but had maintained unlawful relations
with at least three other women, all of whom had borne him
children, we think that, even if two constructions were possible,
the Court of First Instance was right in putting that construcletter which was most favorable to the plaintiff.
tion
Weupon
havethereached
the conclusion that there is no such pieponderance of evidence in favor of the theory. of plaintiff's guilt,
as authorized the Supreme Court to set'aside the conclusions
of the court belw upon the ground that these findings were
plainly and. manifestly against the weight of the evidence. In
this-connection it is proper to bear in mind that the trial judge
had all these witnesses before him, and doubtless formed his
conclusions largely from their appearance on the' stand,, their
manner of giving testimony and their apparent credibility.
Under the circumstances we think the Supreme Court'should
have affirmed rather than reversed the action of the lower court.
While the right of the plaintiff to her proportion of the conjugal property, to alimony pending suit and to other allowances
claimed is the basis of our jurisdiction, the decree of the Supreme Court in dismissing plaintiff's petition renders it unnecessary to review the action of the Court of First Instance in
fixing the amount that it held plaintiff was entitled to recover.

KEEN v. KEEN.
201 U.' S.

Statement of the Case.

We are therefore of opinion that the decree of the Supreme
Court dismissing the petition must be reversed, and the causeremanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE DAY dissented upon the question of
juTisdiction.

KEEN v. KEEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 188.

Argued March 7, 8, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Where the only assignment of error does not involve any Federal question
the mere statement in the motion for new trial that the judgment deprives
plaintiff in error of his property without due process of law, denies him
equal protection of the laws, and is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, without any allegation as to why the judgment has this effect, no
notice of which is taken by the state court in denying the motion does
not properly raise a Federal question so as to give this court jurisdiction
to review under § 709, Rev. Stat., even though the writ be allowed by
the presiding judge -of the state court.
What facts constitute a common-law marriage in a State is purely a local,
and not a Federil, question.

THIS was an action of ejectment begun by Sophronia K.
Keen in the Circuit Court of St. Charles County against Ellis
Keen, to recover a tract of land in that county to which plain-

tiff averred she was lawfully entitled. The petition was in
the usual form of a declaration in ejectment, and the answer
a general denial.
Eli Keen was the common source of title, plaintiff claiming
one-half of the land, subject to the payment of debts, under
section 2939 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, upon the
ground that she was the widow of Eli Keen, who died in

