OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

not rest on any defect in the original location. On the contrary, the Land Department held the proceedings sufficient to
entitle the Kohnyo claimant to proceed to patent for this
particular tract if it should so elect. It was only when the
Kohnyo claimant abandoned that tract by making its election that it waived its right to patent it, and permitted the
receiver's lreceipt to be cancelled to that extent.
That cancellation did not itself operate to restore tle southerly tract to the public domain, which had already takeri place
by the action of the Kohnyo claimant in compliance with the
judgment of the Land Department.
We concur in the conclusions of the Supieme Court of Colorado, and the judgments are

Affirmed.

AMADEO v. NORTHERN ASSURANCE COMPANY.
AMADEO v. ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
Nos. 199, 200 and 201.

Argued March 8,1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Royal Insurance Co. v. Miller, 199 U. S: 353, followed to effect that, in
the absence of jxpress legislation affecting Porto Rico, the law prior
to the extension of the Civil Code thereto in 1889 concerning limitations
of personal actions, is that generally prevailing under Spanish law and
in these cases on insurance policies, the loss under which had occurred
prior to 1889, the twenty-year term applied and not the fifteen-year
term applicable under the Civil Code after its extension to Porto Rico.
A party having no legal interest in maintaining or reversing a judgment
is not always a necessary party to writ of error or appeal, and if.
the
defendant has pleaded below that a party plaintiff has no interest in
the cause of action, having assigned the same, and as a result of such
plea the assignee has been substituted, 'the defendant, cannot assert in
this court that the original plaintiff was more than a nominal party, and
the writ will not be dismissed on account of his death and failure to give
notice to his succession.

AMADEO v. NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.
201 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Objections as to forms of writ of error not taken below will not be entertairied here to defeat the jurisdiction of this court--and an amendment
bringing in a corporation in liquidation as assignee of the party plaintiff held, under such conditions, to bring in the liquidator also.
Although. irregularities may exist in appeal bonds, if the cases are sent
back for further proceedings no order need be entered here regarding
them.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Fritz v. Briesen, with whom Mr. Charles M. Boerman
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The period of prescription on an action 'on a policy of fire
insurance, acciuing in 1885; is twenty years. Royal Insurance
Company v. Miller, 199 U. S. 353. The decision in that case
is controlling and these cases must be reversed.
Antonio Jos6 Amadeo is only a nominal plaintiff. He,
or his estate, has no further pecuniary interest in this litigation. This is a fact admitted'upon the'record by both sides.
The poicies and the proceeds thereof have been assigned to
the firm of Pastor Marquez Company, in liquidation, one of
the plaintiffs in error, as shown by the record:
The death of one of several appellants or plaintiffs in error
does. not- abate a suit, nor necessitate a revival of it in the
Appellate Court. The cause survives to, and may be prosecuted by, the other plaintiffs in error. 2 Cyc. 771; 5 Ency.
PL: & Prn 815; McKinney v. Carroll, 12 Pet. 66, 71; Moses
v. Wooster, 115 U. S. 285; Palmer v. Davis, 28 N. Y. 242.
Amadeco was a proper party, but he was not a necessary
party, and his representatives need not intervene. If he was
an unnecessary party', the court below may be ordered to
strike his name from the title of the suit, leaving only the
Pastor Marquez Company, the real party in interest.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Francis H.
Dexter,and Mr. John Spalding Flannery were on the brief, for
defendants in error:
The writs of error in these cases should be dismissed for
manifest irregularities, both in.
form and in prosecution.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

201 U. S.

Amadeo having died subsequent to judgment, and before
any writ of error was sued out, no valid writ of 6rror could
thereafter be sued out or prosecuted in-his name, and assuming that "The Pastor Marquez Company" was otherwise authorized and competent to seek relief in this court, it could only
do so in this case after notification to the succession of the deceased. It appears from the pleadings that Pastor Marquez
Company was in liquidation, and that Pedro Salazar was the
liquidator. Under the Spanish ,law as under English common
law this action, in so far as in favor of Pastor Marquez Company
was and is concerned, could only be maintained in the name
of the liquidator.
While the absence of an appeal bond or the failure of the trial
judge to note his approval thereon will not render the writs of
error void, still the filing of duly approved security is prerequisite to the prosecution of such writs in the appellate court.
Passing the irregularities in the matter of the appeal bonds,
which, in so far at least as the absence of the approval thereof.
by the district judge is concerned, might be corrected in this
court, Seymour. v. Freer, 5 Wall. 822; Dodge v. Knowles,
114 U. S. 430; Stewart v. Masterson, 124 U. S. 493; Beardsley
v. Arkansas &c. Co., 158 U. S. 123, the defects. in the writ
of error are irretrievable.
As Amadeo was dead at the time the writ of error was prayed
for and issued, the suit, as to him, abated, subject to be revived
only upon compliance with the statutory requirements, sec; 9,
act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 473, or the rules of this court.
Amadeo, originally the sole plaintiff, by amendment to the
declaration was made joint plaintiff with "Pastor Marquez:
Company, in liquidation," of which Pedro Salazar was the
liquidator. Amadeo having died, his legal representatives or
successors alone had the right to prosecute an appeal in the
interest of his estate. IThe failure of his representatives or'
successors to appeal or sue out a writ of error did not authorize
his co-plaintiff to wage the writ. on his behalf or in his interest
or that of his succession, nor can such co-plaintiff'prosecute

AMADEO v. NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an appeal or writ of error to reverse the judgment against him,
even where the right of action survives, except such death
shall have been suggested upon the record. Rev. Stat. ยง956;
Masterson v. Herndon, 10 Wallace, 416.
In such cases no importance is to be attached to the technical mode of proceeding called summons and severance, but
it is settled that it must appear in some way from the record
that the missing parties had been notified to appear and had
failed to do so, or, if appearing, had refused to join. Meagher
v. Minnesota Thresher Mfg. Co., 145 U. S. 608, 611; Feibelman
v. Packard, 108 U. S. 14; Estis v. Trabue, 128 U. S. 225;
Mason v. United States, 136 U. S. 581; Hardee v. Wilson, 146
U. S. 179; Sipperly v. Smith, 155 U. S. 86.
A writ of error in such a case cannot be amended by inserting the names of other plaintiffs in error, nor can a judgment
of severance be now had even with their consent. Mason v.
United States, 136 U. S. 581.
The writ of error, having been sued out without notification
to the representatives of the deceased, may not be amended,
but should be dismissed. Dolan v. Jennings, 139 U. S. 385.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In No. 199 the action was commenced April 21, 1903, by
Antonio Jos6 Amadeo as sole plaintiff to recover from the
Northern Assurance Company damages in the sum Of $10,000
on a certain fire insurance policy issued on property in Porto
Rico. The policy was dated December 21, 1884, and insured
plaintiff against loss by fire for one year from that date. The
loss was alleged to have occurred February 7, 1885.
Defendant filed several pleas, and, among others, that "the
alleged cause of action did not accrue within fifteen years before this suit," and that prior to the institution of the suit the
policy and its proceeds had been duly sold and transferred by
plaintiff "to the firm of Pastor Marquez and Company, who
are the only persons entitled to sue herein."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Plaintiff demurred to both these pleas but, subsequently,
by leave of court, amended his declaration by adding to the
caption, after the name Amadeo, the words "for the use of and
together with Pastor Marquez Company, in liquidation," and
by inserting in the body of the declaration the following:
"And plaintiff avers that about the month of August, 1885,
the said policy was assigned to the Pastor Marquez Company,
which is a company in liquidation and of which Pedro Salazar
is liquidator."
Thereafter plaintiff's demurrer to defendant's pleas of prescription was overruled by the court, and plaintiff excepted,
and subsequently replied that the prescription pleaded had
been interrupted "extrajudicially." To that replication defendant interposed a demurrer, which was sustained by the
court. Plaintiffs thereupon declined to plead further and the
court entered judgment, January 12, 1904, as follows: "And
it is therefore adjudged by the court that issue is found in
favor of the defendant and that the plaintiffs recover nothing
herein, and that the defendant go hence with judgment for
costs against the plaintiffs." It now appears that plaintiff
Amadeo died intestate May 14, 1904. September 20, 1904,
application was made for the allowance of a writ of error from
this court to review the judgment, which was allowed September 21, 1904. On December 20, 1904, an appeal bond in the
sum of $500, wherein Pastor Marquez and Company was named
as principal and Lucas Amadeo and Felix Salazar as sureties,
was filed in the clerk's office of the District Court, but the bond
did not bear the approval of the judge. The bond was entitled "Antonio Jos6 Amadeo and Pastor, Marquez and Co. vs.
Northern Assurance Co.;" recited that "whereas the abovenamed plaintiffs have sued out a writ of error' to the Supreme
Court," etc., and was conditioned that "the above-named
plaintiffs shall prosecute said writ to effect," etc. It was signed
"Pastor Marquez & Com. en Liqid. E. Salazar, Lucas Amadeo,'
Felipe Salazar." The writ of error, which is, dated December 31, 1904, bears the allowance of the district judge, who

AMADEO v. NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

also signed the citation under that date. The writ of error
and the citation describe "Antonio Jose Amadeo for the use
of and together with the Pastor Marquez Company in liquidation" as plaintiffs in error. The writ of error asserts that the
error complained of wrought damage to "said Antonio Jos6
Amadeo for the use of and together with the Pastor Marquez
Company in liquidation." The transcript of record was
docketed in this court March 15, 1905.
In No. 200, the action was brought by Antonio Jos6 Amadeo
alone, upon two policies of insurance against the Royal Insurance Company, April 21, 1903. The policies of insurance
were dated September 15 and December 21, 1884, respectively,
and insured plaintiff against loss and damage for one year from
their respective dates. The loss as alleged, occurred February 7, 1885. Defendant, among other defenses, pleaded prescription of fifteen years and transfer by plaintiff, prior.to the
institution of the suit, of the policies and all interest therein.
To these pleas plaintiff at first -demurred, but subsequently
with leave of the court amended his declaration as follows:
In the title, after the name of the plaintiff, by adding the following words, "for the use of and together with the Pastor
Marquez Company in liquidation," and. by adding in the body
of the declaration the following: "And plaintiff avers that on
or about August, 1885, the said policy was assigned to the
Pastor Marquez Company, which is a company in liquidation
and of which Pedro Salazar is,
liquidator." Plaintiff's demurrer to' defendant's pleas of prescription having been overruled and exception thereto noted, plaintiff replied that the
prescription had been interrupted "by extrajudiciaI.demand;"
to which replicatioln defemait interpose(d a demurrer, which
was sustained. An;d plaintiff having refused to plead further
to defendant's pleas of prescription and "failing to offer proofs
as to the other issues made and tendered,." judgment was on
the fifteenth day of January, 1904, entered for defendant as
follows: "That the plaintiffs herein, Antonio Jos6 Amadeo,
for himself and for the use and benefit of the firm of Pastor

OCTOBER TERM, .1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Marquez and Company, and Pedro Salazar as liquidating
partner of the said Pastor Marquez and Company, take nothing by either of their said suits, and that the defendants go
hence without day and recover of and from the said plaintiffs
all costs in this behalf incurred or expended, for which execution may issue." Petition for allowance of writ of error was
filed September 20, 1904, and allowed the next day. An appeal bond entitled "Jos5 Antonio Amadeo and Pastor Marquez
and Company vs. Royal Insurance Co." was "filed and approved Dec. 20th, 1904," but the copy of the bond in the
transcript of record does not show the approval of the district
judge. This bond was signed by ' Pastor Marquez & Co. en
liqui., E. Salazar, Felipe Salazar, Lucas Amadeo," Pastor
Marquez & Co. being described as principal and Lucas Amadeo
and Felipe Salazar as sureties. The writ of error and citation
were as in case No. 199. Record filed March 15, 1905.
No. 201 was a consolidation of two similar actions, and the
course of procedure was like that in Nos. 199 and 200. The
judgment was rendered January 15, 1904, in favor of defend-'
ant and against "Frederico Amadeo, for himself and for the
use and benefit of the firm of Pastor Marquez and Company,
and Pedro Salazar as liquidating partner of the said Pastor
Marquez & Company."
The appeal bond was filed December 20, 1904, and was
signed by "Pastor Marquez and Co. in liquidation, E. Salazar,
Felipe Salazar and Lucas Amadeo;" and did not bear the approval of the district judge. The record was filed March 15,
1905.
The sureties on each of the appeal bonds in Nos. 199, 200
and 201 made affidavit as to their responsibility before the
clerk of the District Court, and acknowledged the execution
of the bonds before him.
it was admitted at the bar that on the merits these judgments must be reversed. Royal Insurance Company v. Miller,
199 U. S. 353.
But it is insisted that the writs of error in Nos. 199 and 200

AMADEO v. NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.
201 U. S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

should be dismissed because Antonio Jos6 Amadeo died after
judgment and before the writs of error were sued out, and the
Pastor Marquez. Company, if otherwise competent, could'not
prosecute the writs until after notice to the succession of, the
deceased. And, further, that as it appeared the Pastor
Marquez Company was in liquidation, the writs of error as
well'as the actions could only be prosecuted in the name of
the liquidator, which was denied. to be the fact here. And that
the writ of error in No. 201 should be dismissed on the latter
ground as well as because of want of summons and severance.
Antonio Jos& Amadeo was dead when the writs of error
issued in Nos. 199 and 200, and it is contended that the writs
cannot be maintained because the actions had not been revived below, the death was not suggested on'the record, and
no notice of intention to take out the writs was given to his
succession. Defendant, however,- pleaded, among other defenses, that Amadeo had no interest in the cause of action,
because the policies and their proceeds had been duly sold and.
transferred to Pastor Marquez and Company, who were alone
entitled to siue. And thereafter the complaints were amended,
as previously stated. For the purposes of these motions to
dismiss, defendant in error cannot be permitted in this court
to assert that Amadeo was other than a nominal. plaintiff, and
the cases fall within the principle, occasionally applicable, that
parties having no legal interest in maintaining or reversing a
judgment or decree are not necessary parties to a writ of error
or appeal. Basket v. Hassell, 107 U. S. 602; Germain v.
Mason, 12 Wall. 259; ,Forgay v. Conrad,, 6 How. 201.
And although these records are much confused and very carelessly made up, we think that it may be properly held that the
effect of the amendments was to bring the liquidator into court,
with the liquidating company, and, at.all events, that, in view
of defendants' pleas, the amendments thereupon, and the want
of objection below in respect of the liquidator, that objection
should not now be entertained in defeat of our jurisdiction.
These considerations control the disposition of No. 201.

'202

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

As to the suggested irregularities in the appeal bonds, they
do not render the writs of error void, and we do not feel called
on to enter any orders in regard to them, as these cases must
go back for further proceedings.
Judgments reversed and causes remanded for further proceedings in conformity with law.

WISCONSIN v. HITCHCOCK.
IN EQUITY.
No. 12, Original.

Argued February 21, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The provisions in the enabling act of August 6, 1846, authorizing the people
of the then Territory of Wisconsin to form a state government, and by
which section 16 in every township of the public lands, in that.Territory, not sold or otherwise disposed of was granted to the State for the
use of schools, did not operate to vest in the State section 16 of townships within the La Pointe or Bad River and the Flambeau Indian Reservations from which the Indians have never been required to'remove;
and this notwithstanding by the provisions in treaties executed prior to
1846 the Indians occupying them ceded those lands to the United States
only retaining the privileges of occupancy thereof until required to remove therefrom by the President of the United States, and that a er
1846 the same lands were included in the reservations as they now exist.
United States v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 557, followed, as determinative of this
case (although it did not have reference to the particular Reservation
involved in this case). It was held that the court will not, at this time
and at the instance of the State, interfere with the administration by
the Interior Department of the lands in question for the benefit of the
Indians for whom the Reservation was established.

THE State of Wisconsin seeks by this suit to enjoin the defendant as Secretary of the Interior from interfering; in anywise, with its. use, possession or enjoyment of certain lands,
embraced within the present La Pointe or Bad River and the
Flambeau Indian Reservations in that State.

