OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

201 U. S.

wish to be regarded as sanctioning any relaxation of the rule
above stated, already laid down in the prior decisions of this
court.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN concurs

in the result.

UNITED STATES v. WICKERSHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 185.

Submitted February 28, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The provisions of the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883, are broad and
comprehensive; under it, the Executive order of May 16, 1896, Rule III,
and the order and list of the Secretary of the Interior of June 9 and
September 26, 1896, based thereon, stenographers receiving the specified
salaries employed in offices of surveyors-general were brought within
the protection of the law and can only be removed-at least by a subordinate officer of the Department-for just cause and upon written
charges on notice with opportunity to defend; and until removed in
accordance with the law and rules thereunder, and so long as he remains
ready and willing to discharge the duties of his place, he cannot be deprived of the compensation legally belonging to one entitled to hold
the position notwithstanding the surveyor-general in whose office he
is employed attempts to discharge him and excludes him from the office.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Louis A. Pradt, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr.
Felix Brannigan, Assistant Attorney, for the United States:
It is unnecessary to present any argument as to whether or

not Wickersham was or was not in the classified civil service

UNITED STATES v. WICKERSHAM.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

of the United States within the intention of the act approved
January 16, 1883. 22 Stat. 403. The act and the orders or
regulations prescribed under it did not place Wickersham in
the position of a salaried officer of the United States holding
an office with unlimited tenure; and therefore that, whether he
was rightfully or wrongfully (lismissed (suspended)-that is to
say, refused to be continued in employment by the surveyorgeneral for Idaho-he was not entitled to a judgment for any
salary or compensation after November 1, 1897.
The civil service law' is not in conflict with the principles of
the law of master and servant. Under the latter law no dismissed employ6 could recover a valid judgment against his
employer under the circumstances of the present case. The
civil service law does not contemplate that such an employ6
as Wickersham shall be permanently em)loyed, nor that le
shall not b dismissed (suspended) from employment at any
time by the officer who had the authority to employ him,even
when that officer erroneously assumed that he did not need
the services of the employ6.
No person can be appointe(l to -n office in the service of the
United States except by the President, or the head of a Department, or a court, an(l the "salaryr" of the ,office must be
fixed by law or by a regulation authorized by law. There is
nothing in the record showing that appellee was ever employed
or hired by any surveyor-general for any definite time, or that
he ever held an office of the United States, or was ever entitled
to the salary of such an office.
Mr. William R. Andrews and Mr. Samuel D. Luckett, for
appellee:
The power to remove does not include the power to suspend
an officer. Meechem's Public Officers, § 453; Throop on Public Officers, §§ 402, 404; State v. Jersey City, 25 N..J. L. 536;
Gregory v. Mayor, 113 N. Y. 416; Bovee v. Herron, 24 La. Ann.
595.
The rules of the civil service declared upon what grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

and in what mode the appellee might be removed, and it was
beyond the power of any superior officer to remove or suspend
him for any other reason or in any other mode. Keech v.
Thompson, 94 N. Y. 459; Commonwealth v. Shaver, 3 W. & S.
344; Lowe v. Commonwealth, 3 Met. (Ky.) 241. See also Auditor v. Hardin,8 B. Monroe, 672; Dennison v. St. Louis, 90
Missouri, 22; Field v. Commonwealth, 32 Pa. St. 483; Foster v.
Kansas, 112 U. S.205; Kennard v. Morgan, 92 U. S. 483; Ken-,
nedy v. McGarry, 21 Wisconsin, 497; Throop on Public Officers,
§364; Willard's Appeal, 4 R. 1. 595; Gorman v. Board of
Police, 3 Abbott, 488; Perkins v. United States, 20 C. Cl.
443.
The appellee having been illegally suspended, and the officer
having jurisdiction of him as an employ6 having annulled such
suspension, he is entitled to his salary during the time of such
suspension. Throop on Public Officers; State v, Carr, 3 Mo.
App. 6; Fitzsimmons v. Brooklyn, 102 N. Y. 536; Andrews v.
Portland, 79. Maine, '484; Bailey v. State, 56 Mississippi, 637;
Mayor v. Woodward, 12 Heisk. (Tenn.) 499; People v..Brennan,
30 How. Pr. (N. Y.) 417; Dorsey v. Smith, 28 California,. 21.
Appellee having been suspended-not removed, is entitled to
his salary, irrespective of the legality of his suspension. Sleigh
v. United States, 9 C. Cl. 375. See also Chisolm v. United States,
27 C. Cl, 97; Throop on Public Officers, § 500; Emmitt v. The
Mayor, etc., supra.
Where an officer has been prevented from performing the
duties, of his office he is entitled to his salary. Fitzsimmons v.
Brooklyn, 102 N. Y. 536; Adams v. Justices, 21-Georgia, 206;
Savage et al. v. Pickard, 82 Tennessee, 46.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellee brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover
upon an alleged claim for compensation at the rate of $i,100
per annum, from November 1, 1897, to July 1, 1902, and
,averred that he was a clerk in the office of the United States

UNITED STATES .v. WICKERSHAM.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

surveyor-general in Boise, Idaho, in the classified civil service,
from/which employment on said first-mentioned date, he was
suspended, without fault of his own or just cause. He stated
his readiness to discharge the duties of the office and set forth
in detail what he claimed amounted to a wrongful suspension
therefrom by the United States surveyor-general of the State
of Idaho. The finding of facts is quite. voluminous, and it is
unnecessary to set it all out in detail. The facts pertinent to
the decision of this case may be summarized as follows: Several years prior to May 6, 1896, claimant was employed as a
clerk, stenographer and typewriter in the office of the surveyorgeneral of the.United States for the State. of Idaho, at a salary
of $1,100 per annum. On that date.the President of the United
States made and promulgated an order relating to the civil
service, which provided, among other things:
"Rule III..
"i. All that part of the executive civil service of the United
States which has been, or may hereafter be, classified under the
civil service act shall be arranged as follows: The Departmental Service.
"2. The Departmental Service shall include, officers and employos as follows:

"(b) All executive officers and employ6s outside of the District of Columbia not covered in (a), of whatever designation,
whether compensated by fixed salary or otherwise"Who are serving in a.clerical capacity, or whose duties are
in whole or in part of a clerical nature."
On June 9, 1896,: the Secretary of the Interior issued the following order:
"Civil Service Classification of Officers and Employds.
"Department of. the Interior,
"Washington, June 9, 1896.
"By direction of the President of the United States, and in
accordance with the third clause of section 6 of the act entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

'An act to regulate and improve the civil service of the United
States,' approved January 16, 1883:
"It is ordered, That the officers and employ6s in or under
this Department included within the provisions of the civil
service law and rules be, and they are hereby, arranged in the
following classes:
"Class E, all persons receiving an annual salary of $1,000 or
more, or a compensation at the rate of $1,000 or more, but less
than $1,200 per annum. .
"
On September 22, 1896, the Acting Secretary of the Interior
communicated to the Civil Service Commission the names of
the incumbents, with their legal residences, and the dates of
appointment, added to the classified ,departmental service by
the. extension of May 6, 1896,. also inclosing a similar list of
such positions and employ6s in the offices of the surveyorgeneral, which contained the name of the appellee with his
title, "stenographer and typewriter," date of appointment,
salary, residence and class. The appellee was verbally informed by the surveyor-general of his selection, and, after executing-the prescribed oath, entered upon his duties. At the
time of his employment the custom was to allow the surveyorgeneral to select the clerical force of his office. Appellee was
continuously employed as such stenographer and typewriter
until November 1, 1897, on which date he was suspended from
service. by, the surveyor-general. No charges in writing or
orally were preferred against him, the surveyor-general basing
the suspension on the ground that appellee's services were not
needed on account of lack of work to be done. On November 15, 1897, the surveyor-general reported to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office an accumulation -of mineral work,
the employment of certain clerks by himself, with the request
for additional clerical force. On November 22, 1897, the Commissioner of the General Land Office advised the surveyor.general that the ground taken -that certfin persons were dismissed because there was no further occasion for their services
and the appointment of other persons in their places could not

UNITED STATES v. WICKERSHAM.
201 U. S.

395

Opinion of the Court.

be sustained. On February 24, 1898, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, in reply to a letter from the surveyorgeneral under date of February 21, 1898, in which he had asked
authority to employ two additional draftsmen and four transscribing clerks, to be paid from the funds reported as available,
said: "No authority can be given you to employ the additional force desired, except as provided under the civil service,
rules. I am constrained to say that but for your summary
action in dispensing with so many of your employ~s, in violation of the law governing such matters, the difficulties in dispatching the work of your office would not have prevailed to
such an extent." On May 14, 1898, the Commissioner advised the Civil Service Commission as follows: "Referring to
my request of the 20th ult., for a certificate of a list of eligibles
for appointment as stenographer and typewriter, at $900, in
the office of the surveyor-general of Idaho, I have been informed that an examination was recently held by your Commission in said State for persons possessing the required qualifications, and it is urgently requested that as soon as possible
this office may be furnished with a certificate from those citizens of Idaho who are 6ligible for the place desired to be filled
under my call of the 20th ult., as the surveyor-general reports
that his work is much impeded and embarrassed for the lack
of a competent stenographer." On June 15, 1898, the President of the Civil Service Commission addressed a communication to' the Secretary of the Interior, in which he said: "In
this connection the Commission invites your attention to the
fact that although surveyor-general Perrault suspended the
above-named employds (Lellman and Wickersham) and three
others (D. J. Cohen, Joseph P. Chinn and Alice S. Howey) over
seven months ago, on the alleged ground .of. lack of work.
(which has been effectually disproved), these. persons still remain separated from the service, while others occupy the positions to which they are properly eAtitled."
Since November 1,
1897, claimant has not been permitted to perform the duties
of stenographer and typewriter in said office, although after

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

said date he stood ready and willing to discharge the duties
thereof, and he has received no compensation from the United
Staites since October 31, 1897. On November 5, 1897, he protested against his- suspension, and on December 28, 1897, he
demanded his salary. On January 1,1899, he assumed office
as district clerk of Ada County, Idaho, and served for one year.
On April 9, 1898, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
directed the reinstatement of the clerks whose places had not
been permanently filled, among others naming the appellee, and
directed the surveyor-general to prefer formal charges against'
such persons as he had reported for inefficiency, etc., and to
hand a copy of the charges and a copy of the order to each of
the clerks and give them three days within which to make a
response., In pursuance 'of this instruction the surveyorgeneral on April 16, 1898, preferred charges against the appellee,
and on the same day reinstated him. On May 10, 1898, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office advised the surveyorgeneral that the appellee w6uld be reinstated in the service of
the bureau, as his continuance in the surveyor-general's office
would not be harmonious and in the best interests of the public
service. On the same day he was offered a position in Washington at $1,000 per annum, without transportation, which he
declined. He was offered the alternative of accepting a position in the General- Land Office in Washington at a reduced
salary, or to await the occurrence of a vacancy elsewhere, but
he has not since been offered a position elsewhere in the service.
On August 8, 1898, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office made appellee's suspension permanent., The Court of
Claims rendered a judgment in favor of the appellee for the
amount of his compensation from the first of November, 1897,
from. which date, it was found, he wao wrongfully' suspended,
until May 10, 1898, when his services in the office of the surveyor-genbral were discontinued and he was offered a position
in the bureau at Washington, which he declined.
It is the contention of thq Government that Wickersham
was not an official appointee of the-President or the head af

UNITED STATES v. WICKERSHAM.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a Department, but was merely an appointee of the surveyorgeneral, without definite employment and subject to removal
at the will of that officer. The employment of the appellee is
alleged to be no different than the ordinary engagement of
master and servant, and it is urged that the attempted suspension by the surveyor-general was tantamount to dismissal by
an employer of one who was engaged without definite term and
subject to :dismissal at any time.
The provisions of the act of Congress of January 16, 1883,
to regulate'and improve the civil service of the United States,
1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 392, are broad and comprehensive. By
section 6 of the act the power is conferred upon the President
of the United States to require the heads of Executive Departments to classify for the purposes of the-act and the examination therein provided for, and to include in one or more of said
classes, so far as practicabley, subordinate places, clerks and
officers in the public service pertaining to their respective departments, not before classified for examination. The order
of the President of May 6, 1896, Rule III, provides that thedepartmental service classified under the act should include
officers and employds, among others, "All executive officers.
and employ6s outside the District of Columbia

..

.

of

whatever designation, whether compensated by fixed salary or
otherwise, who are serving in a clerical capacity, or whose
duties are in whole or in part . of a clerical nature." In accordance with the statute and under the provisions of this
order the Secretary of the Interior, on June 9, 1896, made an
order classifying the officers and employ6s of his Department,
Class E, including 'persons receiving $1,000 or more of'salary,
or compensation at the rate of $1,000 or more, but less than
$1,200 per annum. On September 26, 1896, under the extension order referred to and the action of the Secretary of the
Interior, the Acting Secretary of the Interior filed a list of positions and employ6s with the Civil Service Commission, which,
uiuong others, in the list of 6mploy6s in the offices of surveyorsgeneral, contained the name: of the appellee as a stenographer

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

and typewriter, the date of his appointment, salary and residence, as stated in the findings of fact. By the action recited
on the part of the President and the head of the Department
of the Interior, Wickersham was brought within the protection
of the law and the President's order afforded to persons duly
entered in the classified civil service. While he may not technically have been an officer of the United States 'with a fixed
term and compensation, he Certainly was within the subordinate places provided for in the statute, and within the "employ~s outside the District of Columbia," covered by the
President's order of May 6, 1896. That order expressly included officers and employ6s, whether compensated by A fixed
salary or otherwise, serving in a clerical capacity or whose
duties were in whole or in part of a clerical nature. The Secretary of the Interior certified the name of the claimant to the
Civil Service Commission as an employ6 in the office of the
surveyor-general, within the terms of the statute and the Executive order. He was, therefore, entitled to the protection
of the President's order of July 27, 1897 (14 An. Rep. Civ.
Serv. Comm.'133): "No removal shall be made from any position subject to competitive examination except for just cause
and upon written charges filed with the head of the department
or other appointing officer, and of which the accused shall have
full notice and an opportunity to make defense." If the. contention of the Government be correct, and the attempted suspension by the surveyor-general was equivalent to a dismissal
from office, such action would run counter to the requirements
of the Presidential order just quoted. The action of the
surveyor-general was not upon written charges, and no notice
or opportunity to make defense was given to the accused, as
provided in that order. The appellee being entitled to the
protection of this order, and to have notice of the charges preferred, and an opportunity to make defense, the attempted
removal, if such it was, was without legal effect; nor can we
find any authority, statutory or otherwise, authorizing the
suspension in the manner undertaken in this case. The at-

UNITED STATES v. WICKERSHAM.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tempted' suspension was, held'to be without authority by the
Commissioner of -the General Land Office, and the surveyorgeneral was directed to reinstate the claimant and to proceed
by regular' charges against him. In the meantime the record
shows that the claimant was ready and willing to discharge
the duties of his position, and had received no compensation
therefor during the time of his'wrongful suspension. Whether
he could have been summarily removed or suspended by the
President or other competent authority is not the question now
before the court, but the question is whether the employ6 during his wrongful suspension by a subordinate officer is entitled
to. the compensation provided by law. We see no reason in
such an attitude of the case, where the wrongful suspension is
clearly established; and the ability of the incumbent to discharge the duties of his office affirmatively found, for withholding from himthe compensation given by law to an incum.bent of the place. If this be not so, then a regular and duly
qualified employ6 in the public service, protected by the statute and the orders of the President made in pursuance thereof,
can be deprived of the benefit and emolument of his position
by a wrongful and illegal suspension from his duties. We- do
not think such a, contention can be sustained either by reason
or authority. Where an officer is wrongfully suspended by one
having no authority to make such an order, he ought to be,
and is, entitled to the compensation provided by law during
such suspension. Throop on Public Officers,'§ 407; Emmitt v.,
Mayor '&c. of New York; 128 N. Y.. 117. This was the view
entertained by the Court of Claims in deciding Lellmann's case,
37 C. Cl. 128, on the authority Of which the case at bar was
decided by that court. We think the ruling was correct.
.The case comes to this: The appellee, by his -appointment,
practically made by the-Secretary of the Interior in entering
his name in the classified list and designating him for the service required, was entitled to the privileges and emoluments of
his position until he was legally disqualified by his own action
or that of some duly authorized public authority. The at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

tempted suspension without authority of law, he remaining
ready and willing to discharge the duties of the place, could
not, during the period of such wrongful suspension, have the
effect to deprive him of the compensation legally belonging to
one entitled to hold the position.
Judgment affirmed.

BLAIR v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
NORTH CHICAGO CITY RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BLAIR.
CITY OF CHICAGO v. FETZER.
.BLAIR v. CITY OF CHICAGO.
CHICAGO WEST DIVISION RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BLAIR.
CITY -OF CHICAGO v. FETZER.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE ,-"',NITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS..
Noa. 331, 832, 333, 334. 335 and 336. Argued January 11, 12, 15, 1906.-7ecision
amounced March 12, 1906.-Opinion filed April 2, 1906.
Where notes are made by a corporation payable to the order of its own
treasurer, a citizen of the same State, as a matter of convenience and
cttom, and indorsed and delivered by him to a bona fide holder who,
a citizen of a different State, furnishes the money represented by the
note directly to the corporation, the treasurer is not in fact an assignee of
the note within the mening of the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433,
and suit may -be brought by such holder in the Circuit Court of the
United States having jurisdiction of the parties, notwithstanding such
diversity does not exist as to the treasurer first indorsing the note. Falk
V. Mes, 127 U. S. 597; Holmes v. Goldsmith, 147 U. S. 150.
Where there is a proper cause of action and diverse citizenship, jurisdiction
of the Federal courts exists, and the motive of t~e creditor who desires to
litigate in that forum is immaterial, and does not affect the jurisdiction;
nor is such jurisdiction if it actually exists, affected by the fact that a

