OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

BROWN v. GURNEY.
SMALL v. BROWN.
BROWN v. SMALL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
Nos. 97, 98 and 99.

Argued December 5, 1905.-Decided April 2, 1906.

The Land Department refused to issue a patent on a mining lode location
for which the local office had issued final certificate on the ground that
the entry embraced two tracts separated by a placer claim; but gave
the applicant the privilege for a definite period of electing which tract
he would take, the entry to be' cancelIed on one of the tracts specified
unless he meanwhile appealed or made his election. Within the period
he waived his appeal and elected to take the other tract. Subsequently
the Land Department entered a formal order cancelling the entry as to
the tract abandoned. Meanwhile three entries were made of the abandoned tract. The first immediately after the Land Department had
refused the patent ; the second immediately after the election and relinquishment was made; and the third immediately after the final order
of cancellation was entered. In consolidated adverse proceedings between these three entrymen, held, that:
In adverse proceedings each party is practically a plaintiff and must show
his title.
The order refusing to grant the patent did not of itself restore the land to
the public domain during the period of election, but the relinquishment
of the original entryman to the abandoned tract operated to do so eo
instanti, and the formal order of cancellation merely recorded a preexisting fact, and the rights of the party entering the land immediately
after the relinquishment were superior to those of the other entrymen.
Rulings of the Land Department as to land covered by a location cannot
be challenged collaterally in separate proceedings and the principle of
freedom from collateral attack is equally applicable in cases of final
entry as in those where patent has issued.
A final certificate issued after submission of final proof and payment of
purchase price is for many purposes equivalent to a patent.

BROWN applied for a patent on a mining claim, known as
the Scorpion, and Gurney adversed this application as the
owner and claimant of the Hobson's Choice, as did Small,

BROWN v. GURNEY.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

also, as the owner and claimant of the P. G. claim. Thereafter
each brought suit in support of his adverse claim in the District Court of Teller County, Colorado.. The cases were tried
together on an agreed statement of facts. This showed that
the, Scorpion, Hobson's Choice and P. G. locations covered
substantially the same tract of ground, and were all made in
compliance with law, with the exception repeated in connection with each of said locations: "Provided, however, that it
.is not admitted- that at the time of said location the ground
enbraced in said location was a part of the vacant'and unappropriated public domain."
. It appeared that prior to May 28, 1895, a mining lode location called the Kohnyo was owned by the Cripple Creek Mining Company, which claim was divided into two non-contiguous
tracts by the Mt. Rosa placer claim. The north end of the
Kohnyo, comprising five hundred feet of the claim, was where
the discovery of mineral was made, and it also contained a
discovery shaft and the other workings and improvements
of the claim. The south end being seven hundred feet in
length, did not show mineral, and was without development
work of any kind.
The following diagram illustrates the situation:

A

o

The local Land Office permitted the claimant of the Kohnyo
to enter the two tracts as one claim, but the Department
ultimately refused to issue a patent for such tracts, basing
the refusal upon the ground that two portions of a lode mining claim, separated by a patented placer, could not be included
within one patent. The Land Office gave the applicant,
however, the privilege to apply for a patent upon either of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

the segregated tracts, and directed that, in default of an election or appeal by the claimant within sixty days from the date
of the order, the entry of that portion of the claim lying south
of the Mt. Rosa claim should be cancelled without further
notice. This decision was rendered May 28, 1895, and no
appeal was taken from it: but tho claimant of the Kohnyo
instituted proceedings against the claimant of the Mt. Rosa
placer, the purpose of which was to secure title to the vein
of the Kohnyo, which, it was claimed, passed through the portion of the placer claim which conflicted with the Kohnyo
location. These proceedings were prosecuted before the Land
Department, with the result that on.May 7,'1898, a decision
was rendered against the Kohnyo claimant's contention of a
known vein in the placer conflict.
June 14, 1898, the claimant of the Kohnyo filed in the
Land Office a written instrument, dated June 10, by which it
elected to retain and patent the north end of the Kohnyo
claim, and in which it also waived any right to further question or review the decision of the Secretary of the Interior
of May 7, 1898, affirming the decision. of May 28, 1895.
July 15, 1898, the Commissioner of the General Lanl Office
cancelled the entry of the Kohyno claim as to that portion
south of the Mt. Rosa placer.
May 13, 1898, Brown located this seven hundred feet as
the Scorpion lode claim. June 23, 1898, Gurney located" the
same premises as the Hobsoi's Choice lode claim, and July 16,
1898, Small located the same ground as the P. G. lode claim.
July 15 and 16, 1898, the claimant of the Scorpion filed amended
and second amended certificates.
On these facts, judgment was rendered for defendant in each
case, from which plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of
the State. That court reversed the judgment in Gurney v.
Brown, ahd entered judgment that Gurney recover the premises included in the Hobson's Choice location, and for costs;
and reversed, the judgment in Small v. Brown, and entered.
judgment "that neither party has established any right to the

BROWN v. GURNEY.
201 U. S.

Argument for Brown.

premises in controversy," and for costs. The opinion is reported in 32 Colorado, 472.
*Mr. William C. Prentiss,'with whom Mr. Charles F. Potter
and Mr. Horace F. Clark were on the brief, for Brown, plaintiff in error in Nos. 97 and 99, and defendant in error in No: 98:
The stipulation contains no evidence upon the question of
whether or not the land in question Was vacant or unappropriated and subject to' location.
The acceptance of the application of Brown by the local
officers is evidence' that' the land Was unappropriated and subject to entry, but even in, the' absence of evidence the presumption 'must be that landin the so-called public land States
has remained unappropriated, Lockhart v. Johnson, 181 U.I S.
516, and, therefore, Brown,' being prior in time, must be held
to be paramount in right 'of possession.
I There is no comp 'tent evidence of the existence of the
Koh'nyo location or 'the fact that entry of the same had been
made. The Land 'Department decisions are not proof. The
proper proof of a mineral entry' is the full record of the application and final 'receipt accompanied by the survey so as
to fik the locus. Culver v. Uthe, 133 U. S. 655. And proper
proof of a mining location, embraces evidence of discovery,
etc.', location notice, certificate of location'and assessment
Work.
A missing fact cannot be supplied by a concession of counsel.
This has been repeatedly held in Colorado. Pueblo v. Robinson, 12 Colorado, 593; Townsend v. Fulton Co., 17 Colorado,
145. The rule is the same in this court. Zadig v. Baldwin,
166*U. S. 485.
The pendency of a mineral entry does not prevent location
by another of the ground covered thereby, and such location
becomes effective if the entry be cancelled or relinquished and
the possessory title forfeited or abandoned. Lavagnino v.
Uhlig, 198 U. S. 443.
Location proceedings and patent proceedings are distinct,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Gurney.

201 U. S.

and application for patent and entry do not affect the status
of the ground, so far as possessory title is concerned, unless
patent finally issue and, by relation back, cut out any intervening claims. If the patent proceedings prove abortive and
the entry be cancelled there can be no relation back, and it
follows that the effect of the certificate of purchase is destroyed. In such case the applicant is relegated to his possessory title. Clipper Mining Company v. Eli Mining and
Land Company, 194 U. S. 220, 226; Jaw Bone Lode v. Damon
Placer, 34 L. D. 72. See also Murray v. Polglase, 23 Montana,
401; Adams v. Polglase, 32 L. D. 477; S. C., 33 L. D. 30..
. The Kohnyo entry, as to the south 700, feet thereof, if not
invalid, was eliminated at the expiration of sixty days from
notice of Commissioner's decision of May 28, 1895, which was

a direction to the local officers to cancel the Kohnyo entry
as to the south 700 feet thereof upon default by the claimant
in making election and furnishing evidence as therein allowed
or taking appeal. Guillery v. Butler, 24 L. D. 209; Northern
Pacific R. R. Co. v, DeLacey, 174 U. S. 622.
And in such case the application for reinstatement takes
effect as of the date formal application is made to the register
of the local office for republication of notice. Jaw Bone Lode
v. Damon Placer, 34 L. D. 72.
The entry as to the southerly 700 feet was not eliminated
by the filing of a relinquishment. It was not cancelled by
formal order. 3 Copp's Land Owner, 38.
Mr. Charles C. Butler, with whom Mr. J. C. Helm was on
the brief, for Gurney, defendant in error in No. 97, submitted:
That the land in question was vacant and unappropriated
was assumed to be true throughout the case. It cannot now
be denied. Pratt v. Conway, 148 Missouri, 291; Humes v.
Proctor, 151 N. Y. 520; 2 Ency. Law & Procedure, 675; Lemmon v. Sibert, 15 Colo. App. 136; Elliott on Appellate Procedure, § 489.
The act of 1881 has always been construed to mean that it

BROWN v. GURNEY.
201 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

is not sufficient to entitle the applicant for patent to a judgment in his favor, that the plaintiff fails to prove title to the
ground in the contesting location. It is held that before defendant, who is a patent applicant, can have judgment, he
must prove that he has title to the ground. And it is also
held that, in making such proofs, all the requirements of law,
relating to the location of a mineral claim must be shown to
have been complied with.

And if neither the plaintiff nor the

defendant has made such proofs, then the jury must return
a verdict accordingly and judgment be entered that neither
party is entitled to the ground. McGinnis v. Egbert, 8 Colorado, 55; Becker v. Pugh, 9 Colorado, 589; Manning v. Strahlor,
11 Colorado, 453; Lindley on Mines, § 763; Perego v. Dodge,
163 U. S. 168; Brannigan v. Dulaney, 2 L. D. 751.
The territorial extent of the Kohnyo location is res adjudicata
and is not subject to collateral attack. The action of the
Land Department in matters within its jurisdiction is just as
conclusive and binding and impervious to collateral attack as
is judicial action by one of the ordinary and usual judicial
tribunals. Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 450; Smelting Co.
v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 640; Lindley on Mines, § 208.
There was no appearance for Small, plaintiff in error in
No. 98, and defendant in error in No. 99.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in these cases, which was intended to be, and
was, passed upon, -is when, in respect of the three locations,
did the premises in controversy become subject to location?
In the state Supreme Court, counsel for Brown contended
that the judgments below must be affirmed because the agreed
facts failed to identify the premises in dispute as part of the
Kohnyo claim; did not establish the validity of that location;
And did not affirmatively show that the premises, when lo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

cated as the Scorpion, were not part of the unappropriated
public domain.
But 'the Supreme Court applied the rule that where the
existence of certain facts is assumed in the trial court and the
trial proceeds, without objection, on that assumption, and the
case is decided in reliance thereon, neither party wifl be heard
in the court of review to question there for the first time the
existence of the facts, and especially not where the alleged
omissions might have been supplied if called to the attention
of the trial 'court. And properly applied -it, for the identity
of the ground in controversy and the validity of the original
.Kohnyo location were, conceded by both parties; and, ihdeed,
counsel really' does not deny them as matters of fact but
simply objects that the stipulation' did not include them.
Moreover, we think 'the stipulation and exhibits attached
containing the various proceedings before the Commissioner
of the General Land Office and' the Secretary of the Interior
establish the validity 'of the Kohnyo location. According to
that record, the Kohyo claim had passedto final entry; this
entry. had been' recognized by, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and the Secretary; the'question litigated itn the
Land Department for something like three years, as to the
knowledge of the placer applicant at the iinii (f'his application for patent of the existence of the, Kohn o V'ein in the
placer ground, had been decided adversely to the Kohnyo
claim;' the -Kohnyo claimant had thereupon accepted this
decision, acquiesced therein, and availed himself of the privilege extended by the Commissioner's decision of May 28, 1895,
and elected to retain the northerly tract of the Kohnyo claim,
which amounted to a relinquishment of the southerly tract,
and the entry as to that tract was thereafter formally cancelled.
It may be added also that in adverse procc(ings each party
is practically a plaintiff and must show his title. Jackson v.
Roby, 109 U. S. 440; Perego v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160, 167.
By the act of Congress of March 3, 1881, 21 Stat. 505, c. 140,
it was provided that if in an adverse suit "title to the ground
'

BROWN v. GURNEY.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in controversy shall not be established by either party, the
jury shall so find, and judgment shall be entered according to
the verdict." Under that act it is held that before the applicant for a patent can have judgment he must prove his claim
of title to the ground. The object of the statute was, as we
said in Perego'v. Dodge, supra, to provide, in the case of a
total failure of proof of title, for an adjudication "that neither
party was entitled to the property, so that the applicant could
not go forward with his proceedings in the Land Office simply
because the adverse clairnant had failed to make out his case,
if he had also failed." 2 Lindley on Mines, § 763, and cases
cited.
Of course it is essential that at the date of a location the
ground located on should be part of the pfiblic domain, and
in the present case the specific question affirmatively raised
was whether the ground in controversy was.apart of the public
domain at the time of the respective contested locations.
It seems to us that when the Scorpion locator attempted
to make that location he conceded the validity of the Kohnyo
location and the segregation by that location from the public
domain. of the southerly portion of that claim, but assumed
that the decision of the Secretary of May 7, 1898; operated
to restore that tract to the public domain as of that date,
since he relocated' it on May 13, and on the following fifteenth
of July filed an amended location. But the filing of the latter
certificate did not cure the defect arisingfrom-the fact that the
discovery shaft of the Scorpion was upon ground covered -by
the Kohnyo's claim, and the filing of the amended certificate
could not perfect the Scorpion location in view of the previous
location of the Hobson's Choice, which created intervening
rights in favor of a third person.
The stipulation of facts was evidently prepared in respect
of the inquiry concerning the date at which the ground in
controversy, reverted .to and 'became a part of the public domain, and that embraced the question whether that resulted
from the decision of the Secretary of May 7, 1898; or from

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

the filing of the Kohnyo claimant of its election to retain the
northerly tract and relinquish the other, June 14, 1898; or
upon the formal cancellation of the entry July 15, 1898.
Nevertheless it is further contended that the proceedings
in the Land Department between May 28, 1895, and May 7,
1898, did not suspend the operation of the decision of the
Commissioner of May 28, 1895, and since by that order' the
Kohnyo's applicant was required to make its election within
sixty days from that date, as to which end of the claim it
would retain and patent, in default of which election the entry
of the southerly portion became cancelled, and the Kohnyo's
claimant did not make such election until June, 1898, that the
entry became cancelled as to the ground in controversy, at
the expiration of sixty days from May 28, 1895, and thereupon the tract reverted to the public domain. The Land
Department ruled otherwise. It treated the order of May 28,
1895, as suspended during the intermediate period, while the
proceedings as to the knowledge of the placer claimant of the
existence of the Kohnyo lode were pending. Manifestly because if it was known by the placer applicant at the time of
application for the patent that the Kohnyo vein extended
through the placer ground, then the vein did not pass by the
patent, and the Kohnyo's claimant might be entitled to patent
both ends of its claim, embracing the vein and a strip through
the placer location.
And when on July 15, 1898, the Department cancelled the
Kohnyo entry as to the tract in controversy, it was declared
that: "In view of the fact that no motion for a review of the
departmental decision of May 7, 1898, affirming the decision of
this office of May 28, 1895, was filed within the time prescribed
by the rules of practice, the decision, last mentioned became
final, and it now devolves upon this office to execute the same."
The election, then, by the Kohnyo claimant, filed in the
Land Office June 14, 1898, was an abandonment of the south
seven hundred feet of the Kohnyo claim, which took effect
co instanti. Lindley, §§ 642, 643, 644; Derry v. Ross, 5 Colo-

BROWN v. GURNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

rado, 295, 300. This was voluntarily done, and took effect
notwithstanding the receiver's receipt had not been formally
cancelled. The order of cancellation of July 15 simply recorded a preexisting fact, and did not change the effect of the
previous abandonment. By reason of that abandonment the
southerly tract, for the first time, reverted to and became a
part of the public domain. And as the Hobson's Choice was
the first location of the ground made after such abandonment,
it follows that it was valid, and that its owner was entitled to
a decision in its favor.
We again state the dates of the respective locations. The
Scorpion was located May 13, 1898. The Hobson's Choice
was located June 23, 1898. The location of the P. G. was
July 16. Thus it is seen that the Scorpion was attempted to
be located at a time when the premises were not subject to
location; that the Hobson's Choice was located when the
premises had reverted to the public domain; and that the
location of the P. G. was after that date.
We have accepted the rdlings of the Land Department that
the Kohnyo location covered the southerly as well as the
northerly end of that claim. Such was the decision of May 28,
1895, and that of the Secretary of the Interior of May 7, 1898,
and the formal cancellation of July 15, 1898. In this separate
distinct proceeding counsel cannot challenge these rulings. The
attack is collateral and cannot be entertained. Steel v. Smelting Company, 106 U. S: 447; Smelting Company v. Kemp, 104
U. S. 636. True those decisions refer to instances where the
patent had issued, but the principle of freedom from collateral
attack is equally applicable where final entry has been made.
The final certificate issued by the receiver after the submission
of final proof and payment of the purchase price, where such
is required, has been repeatedly held to be for many purposes
the equivalent of, a patent. We are advised in argument that
the patent was issued, but it is objected that though such may
be the fact it is not so stated in the facts agreed.
The cancellation of the entry of the seven hundred feet did
VOL. cci-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

not rest on any defect in the original location. On the contrary, the Land Department held the proceedings sufficient to
entitle the Kohnyo claimant to proceed to patent for this
particular tract if it should so elect. It was only when the
Kohnyo claimant abandoned that tract by making its election that it waived its right to patent it, and permitted the
receiver's lreceipt to be cancelled to that extent.
That cancellation did not itself operate to restore tle southerly tract to the public domain, which had already takeri place
by the action of the Kohnyo claimant in compliance with the
judgment of the Land Department.
We concur in the conclusions of the Supieme Court of Colorado, and the judgments are

Affirmed.

AMADEO v. NORTHERN ASSURANCE COMPANY.
AMADEO v. ROYAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
Nos. 199, 200 and 201.

Argued March 8,1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Royal Insurance Co. v. Miller, 199 U. S: 353, followed to effect that, in
the absence of jxpress legislation affecting Porto Rico, the law prior
to the extension of the Civil Code thereto in 1889 concerning limitations
of personal actions, is that generally prevailing under Spanish law and
in these cases on insurance policies, the loss under which had occurred
prior to 1889, the twenty-year term applied and not the fifteen-year
term applicable under the Civil Code after its extension to Porto Rico.
A party having no legal interest in maintaining or reversing a judgment
is not always a necessary party to writ of error or appeal, and if.
the
defendant has pleaded below that a party plaintiff has no interest in
the cause of action, having assigned the same, and as a result of such
plea the assignee has been substituted, 'the defendant, cannot assert in
this court that the original plaintiff was more than a nominal party, and
the writ will not be dismissed on account of his death and failure to give
notice to his succession.

