OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

201 U. S.

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

Submitted March 9, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Although in a limited sense there is an element of contract in becoming a
shareholder of a national bank, the liability for debts of the institution
is not contractual but is based on the provisions to that effect in the
national banking law. The Government creating the bank has prescribed the terms upon which ownership of its shares can be acquired,
and only those are exempted from liability who are specially described
in the statute; nor can any shareholders be exempted from such liability by a state statute.
Under § 5151, Rev. Stat., a married woman residing in Florida, who has.
inherited stock in a national bank, which has been transferred to her
and on which she has received and accepted dividends, is subject to a
personal judgment for an assessment of the comptroller, notwithstanding
that under the laws of Florida a married woman cannot enter into a
contract.
Nothing in the law of Florida incapacitates a married woman in that State
from becoming the owner, by bequest or otherwise, of stock in a national bank. How and from what property such a judgment shall be
satisfied not involved or decided in this action.
THE

facts, which involve the right of a receiver of a na-

tional bank in Florida to enforce the statutory liability under
§ 5151, Rev. Stat., against a married woman, a resident of
that State and -'wner of record of shares of stock of the bank
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. H. Buckman for plaintiffs in error:
In order to maintain this judgment it must be held either
that the relation of the stockholder is not contractual or that
the national banking act is paramount to the constitution
and laws of a State.
If the liability is to be determined by the act it must turn
upon the legal definition of the terms "persons" and "share-

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

holders," the act says only "natural persons" can be incorporators. Section 5139, Rev. Stat.
An act authorizing persons to form a corporation means
persons of full age, though no age be stated. 1 Cook on Corporations, .4th ed., p. 1, n. 1; Re Globe Association, 63 Hun,
263; Re Saxon, 1 Ch. 210. A pledgee of such stock is not
liable to such assessment, even though he had caused the
stock, for his protection, to be transferred to him on the books
of the bank. Pauley v. State Loan & Trust Co., 165 U. S.
606.
The terms "persons" and "shareholders" are technical and
must be given their accepted legal definitions as defined at the
time of the passage of the act, and mean only such persons who
were sui juris and competent to contract, the act expressly
providing that persons under disability might- be the owners
or holders of stock through their trustees, guardians, etc., and
yet not liable personally. Section 5152, Rev. Stat.
The relation between the shareholders and the corporation
is a contractual one, and the liability for an assessment upon
stock in the case of insolvency is a contract and not a penalty
liability. Cook on Corporations, 4th ed., § 10, n. 1, p. 30;
n. 1, p. 31, §§ 64, 66, 67, 318, 319; Godfrey v. Terry, 97 U. S.
171; Carroll v. Green, 92 U. S- 509; Norris v. Wrenshall, 34
Maryland, 492; Wickson v. Nesmeth, 46 N. H. 371; Coming
v. McCullough, 1 N. Y. 47; Coleman v. White, 14 Wisconsin,
700; Huntington v. Atrill, 146 U. S. 657; 2 Purdy's Beach on
Corporations, § 220.
Whether a liability exists or not must be determined by
the status of the persons at the time, and according to the law
of the place when the contract was made and not by the national banking act or the act creating the corporation. The
competency of a married woman to take, hold and transfer
shares of stock is governed by the law of her domicil. 1
Purdy's Beach on Corporations, §§ 353, 390. So also as to
infants, persons under duress, or under coverture. Story, Conflict of Laws, §§ 97, 103.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

201 U. S.

Florida was the domicil of both this corporation and the
married woman. Liability in case of insolvency under the
national banking act is a statutory liability, and the defenses
to this liability are substantially the same as in other cases of
statutory liability. Cook on Corporations, 4th ed., 405. So
held as to defenses based on the statute of limitations. Howell
v. Roberts, 29 Nebraska, 483; Queenan v. Palmer, 117 Illinois,
619;'Richmond v. Iron, 121 U. S. 27; Child v. Coffin, 17 Massachusetts, 64; Carroll-v. Green, 92 U. S. 509; Godfrey v. Terry,
97 U. 'S.171; Moores v. Nat. Bank, 104 U. S. 625. See also
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 130.
The personal competency or incompetency of parties to a
contract can always be set up as a defense to the avoidance of
such alleged contract or as to any liability growing out of the
same, and this includes idiots, infants, persons under duress,
and persons under coverture. Gould, Pleading, 257, 258.
No person under legal disability could therefore be included
in the legal contemplation of the terms "persons" and "shareholders" used in the national banking act, as such persons
would be incapable of entering into the contractual relation
in those States or jurisdictions where those disabilities existed;
and at common law .aeither an infant, a married woman, nor
a person non compos could make a contract, and could not,
therefore, be a'shareholder in a corporation. Cook on Corporations, 4th ed., §§ 66, 250, 318, 319, 320; 9 Ry. and Corp.,
L. J. 197; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 369; Canal Bank v. Partee,
99 U. S. 325. The common law is still, in force in Florida and
a married woman cannot make a contract; and no action at
law may be brought or judgment rendered against. her.
The Supreme Court of Florida has decided that a married
woman in this State cannot bind her person by contract either
at law or in equity, Dollner v. Snow, 16 F16rida, 86, or become
a partner, De Graum v. Jones, 23 Florida, 83, and her promissory note is void. Hodges v- Price, 18 Florida, 342; Dollner
v. Snow, 16 Florida, 86; Gos& v. Turner, 21 Florida, 406;
Randall v. Bougardis, 23 Florida, 264.

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
201 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

All laws passed by state authority not contrary to the constitutional provisions of the United States, are supreme within
the States and cannot be gainsaid by the Federal Government.
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, §§ 21, 22.
The husband of the married woman is and was but a nominal
party defendant; the only object of the suit was to enforce an
alleged liability growing out of a contract, the result of which
could only have been a personal money judgment against a
married woman which both the law and procedure of the
State of Florida prohibit. The United States Court was bound
to have been governed by the law and procedure in force in
the State of Florida, and that law had determined that the
courts of the State were without jurisdiction to entertain or
enforce such a proceeding or to render such a judgment.
The national banking act provides no remedy or method of
procedure for the enforcement or collection of these liabilities.
Resort must, therefore, be had to the law of that jurisdiction
in which the alleged liability is sought to be enforced, and the
law of the forum must govern as to the remedy. Glenn v.
Sumner, 132 U. S. 152; Robertson v. Perkins, 129 U. S. 233;
Williams v. Benedict, 8 How. 107; Simonton on Federal
Courts, 152.
Mr. Duncan Upshaw Fletcher for defendant in error:
A married woman is under no disabilities in Florida as to
the property she may acquire and own. Alston v. Rawles,
13 Florida, 117; Hall v. Einstein, 34 Florida, 602; Constitution, Florida, Art. XI; Rev. Stat. Florida, §§ 1197, 1793, 2069.
2070.
If she is not incapacitated from becoming the owner of the
stock she became a shareholder, and is such now, and is liable
to assessment under the national banking laws. It must be
conceded that a married woman may own and hold stock in
a national bank in Florida, and her liability and the means of
enforcing it are controlled by the laws of the United States and
not by those of the State. She became liable as a shareholder

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

201 U. S.

under the laws of the United States, and the remedy of the
receiver is an action at law as in- the case of any other shareholder. Keyser v.'Hitz, 133 U. S.138, 150; In re First National
Bank of St. Albans, 49 Fed. Rep. 120; Bandy v. Cocke, 128
U. S. 138; Zane on Banks and Banking, 77, 674. See also
Lamoser v. Keeler, 123 U. S. 376. The remedy is at law.
Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498. The United States court has
jurisdiction herein without regard to the amount involved.
Brown v. Smith, 88 Fed. Rep. 565.
This statutory liability is not in favor of the bank, but of
its creditors. Wickham v. Hull (Iowa), 71 N. W. Rep. 352,
353; Irons v. Manufacturers' Bank, 21 Fed. Rep. 197.
Even if a married woman should subscribe for stock and
only pay in a part of the par value, she might be assessed
with other stockholders and be obliged to pay, because her
obligation is created by statute of the United States. The
element of power to contract might enter into such a case,
perhaps, but in the case at bar the stock was bequeathed to
plaintiff in error and transferred to her on the books, and she
"received and accepted" it, as she avers in her plea. Her
obligation, in this instance particularly, is created by the acts
of Congress and not by any law of Florida. McDonald v.
Thompson, 184'U. S.71; Aldrich v. Campbell, 97 Fed. Rep. 663.
A married woman is liable to assessment whether her stock
was bought by her or bequeathed to her. Witters v. Sowles,
32 Fed. Rep. 767; Kerr v. Urie (Ind.), 37 Atl. Rep. 789; Keyser
v. Hitz, 133 U. S. 139.
The judgment of the Comptroller is conclusive as to the
necessity for and amount of the assessment. Zane on Banking, 112; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S.673. One who allows himself to be represented on-the books of the bank as owner of stock
will not be heard to dispute liability. Zane on Banking, 82.
National banks are instrumentalities of the Federal Government, created for a public purpose, and as such, necessarily
subject to the paramount authority of the United States.
Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220.

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the CourP.

If a married woman becomes a stockholder she assumes the
liability of one under the acts of Congress. Otherwise we have
the peculiar spectacle, which shocks the conscience, of a shareholder in a national bank who is entitled to all the benefits,
dividends, rights and privileges of the other shareholders, but
can disclaim and prevent the enforcement of the obligations
and liabilities which rest on the other shareholders, not only
as against the bank, but as against the creditors as
well.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By the Revised Statutes of the United States it is provided
that the shareholders of every national banking association
shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably,
and not one for another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such association, to the extent of the amount of their
stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the
amount invested in such shares; that persons holding stock
as executors, administrators, guardians or trustees, shall not
be personally subject to any liabilities as stockholders, the estates and funds in their hands being liable in like manner and
to the same extent as the testator, intestate, ward, or person
interested in such' trust funds would be, if living and competent to act and hold the stock in his own name; and, that a
receiver of a national bank may, if necessary to pay the debts
of such association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders. Rev. Stat. §§ 5151, 5152, 5234.
Proceeding under these statutes the receiver of the First
National Bank of Florida brought this action against Henrietta S. Christopher (her husband John G. Christopher being
joined as co-defendant) to recover the amount due from her
as a shareholder of that bank under an assessment made by
the Comptroller of the Currency against the stockholders of
that bank in order to pay its debts.
The case made by the record is this: At the time of the failure

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

of the bank, on March 14, 1903, fifteen shares of its stock stood
in the name of Mrs. Christopher. The stock was bequeathed
to her by her father in 1886, and his executors caused it to be
transferred to her name on the books of the bank. This was
done without any request from or direction by her. Although
not aware of such transfer until the. stock had been issued and
delivered to her in November, 1887, since that date she has
held the certificate for the fifteen shares. It is shown that in
1894 she joined with other shareholders in securing an amendment of the bank's articles of association, which extended the
corporate existence of the bank until the close of business on
May 26, 1914. It further appears that she received several
semi-annual dividends, from three to five per cent, on her stock
from November, 1887, up to and including February 1, 1896,
at which time the last dividend on the capital.stock of the
bank was declared and paic to stockholders. The dividends
were paid by checks made payable to her order and personally
indorsed by her. After the transfer of the stock Mrs. Christopher's name appeared on the registry of shareholders as the
owner of the fifteen shares of stock, and the books kept by the
bank showed the amount of dividends paid to her from time
to time on those shares.
A personal. judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court
against Mrs. Christopher for the amount due on the assess-,
ment made by the Comptroller. Th6 judgment was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals which held that nothing in the
law of Florida disabled married women from owning in their
own right stock in national banking associations, and from
incurring the liabilities resulting therefrom. 134 Fed. Rep.
842.
That the Comptroller had authority to make the assessment
against- stockholders, and that such assessment is conclusive
as to the amount to be collected, cannot be questioned. Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673, 681;'
Keyser v. Hitz, 133 U. S. 138; Bushnell v. Leland, 164 U. S.
684, 685,

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Did the coverture of Mrs. Christopher at the time her name
was placed on the books of the bank as a shareholder as well as
when she received the certificate of stock, protect, her against
a personaljudgment at law for the amount due under the assessment made by the Comptroller of the Currency? That is the
controlling question in the case.
This question is, we think, substantially answered by the
judgment of this court in Keyser v. Hitz, 133 U. S. 138, 150, 152.
That was an action at law against Mrs. Hitz, a married woman,
who owned shares of stock in a savings bank which was converted into a national bank. The action against her was based
on an assessment made by the Comptroller of the Currency.
One of the contentions in the case was that the coverture of
the defendant at the time she acquired the stock, as well as
when the bank failed, protected her against an assessment under
the act of Congress. The transaction occurred in the District
of Columbia, where the bank was located. It was not contended that the defendant was incapacitated by the laws of
the District from becoming the'owner of bank stock, and hence
the court did not consider what would have been the result,
if the local statutes had prohibited married women from becoming the owners of bank stock. Upon that basis, the court
said: "Assuming then, that she was not incapacitated from
becoming the owrier of stock in a bank, and that she was a
shareholder in the savings bank, she became, upon the conversion of that bank into a national bank, a shareholder in the
latter. Rev. Stat. § 5154. In that event she became, by
force of the statute, individually responsible to the amount of
her stock, at the par value thereof, for the contracts, debts and
engagements of the national bank equally and ratably with
other shareholders. Section 5151, which imposes such individual responsibility upon the shareholders of national banks,
makes no exception in favor of married women. The only
persons holding shares of national bank stock, whom the statute
exempts from this personal responsibility, are executors, ad.ministrators, guardians, or trustees. Section 5152. It is not for

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

the courts, by mere construction, to recognize an exemption
which Congress has not given." Again: "We are of the opinion
that the coverture of the defendant did not prevent the plaintiff from recovering a judgment against her for the amount of
the assessment in question, if she was, within the meaning of
the statute, a shareholder in the bank at the time of its suspension. But the question as to what property may be reached
in the enforcement of such judgment is not before us, and we
express no opinion upon it."
The present defendant insists that she was incapacitated
under the constitution of Florida and under the decisions of
the Supreme Court of that State from becoming the owner of
the stock bequeathed to her by her father. In support of this
proposition we are referred to the following provision in a
statute of Florida enacted November 6, 1829: "The common
and statute laws of England, which are of a general -and not of
a local nature, with the exception hereinafter mentioned, down
to the fourth day of July, 1776, be and the same are hereby
declared to be in force in this Territory: Provided, The said
statutes and common law be-not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States and the acts of the Legislative Council of thib Territory." Also, -to the following provisions of the Constitution of Florida: "All property, real
and personal, of a wife owned by her before marriage or
lawfully acquired afterward by gift, devise, bequest, descent
or purchase, shall be her separate property, and the same
shall not be liable for the debts of' her husband without her
consent, given by some instrument in writing, executed according to the laws respecting conveyances by married
women." Art. 11, § 1. "A married woman's real or personal property may be charged in equity and sold, or the
uses, rents and: profits thereof sequestrated for the purchase
money thereof, or for money or thing due upon any agreement made by her in writing for the benefit of her separate
property, or for the price of any property purchased by her,
or for labor and material used with her knowledge or assent in

, CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court

the construction of buildings, or repairs, or improvements upon
her property, or for agriculture or other labor bestowed thereon
with her knowledge or consent." Art. 11, § 2.
The argument is that at common law a married woman
could not make, or bind herself personally by, a contract, and
was incapable, by the law of Florida, as at common law, of
entering into a contract, at least one that would subject her
to personal liability; that the relation of a shareholder to a
national banking association was of a contractual character;
and consequently, to render a personal judgment against the
defendant Mrs. Christopher was, in effect, to hold her personally
bound by a contract which under the laws of Florida she was
incapable of making.
The vice in this argument is in the assumption that the liability of Mrs. Christopher as a shareholder arises wholly out
of contract between herself and the bank or its creditors;
whereas, upon becoming a shareholder, she made, strictly, no
direct contract ,with anyone; and became, as was held in Keyser
v. Hitz, above cited, by.force of the statute individually responsible to the amount of her stock, for the contracts, debts and
engagements of the bank equally.and ratably with other shareholders. Such statutory liability was created for the protection of creditors, and in order to strengthen the bank in the
confidence of the public. The bank, although its shares of
stock were private property, was an instrumentality of the
General Government. in the conduct of its affairs. Farmers'
&c. Nat. Bank v. D~aring,91 U. S. 29, 33. In Davis v. Elmira
Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283, the court said that "national
banks are instrumentalities of the Federal Government,
created for public purposes, and as such are necessarily subject to the paramount authority of the United States." This
principle'was reaffirmed in Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, 237.
-See, also, Pacific Nat. Bank v. M ixter, 124 U. S. 721.
In McClaine.v. Rankin, 197 U. S. 154, 161, 163, which was
an action against a shareholder of a national bank to recover
the amount due on an assessment made by the Comptroller of
VoL. ccm- 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

the Currency, and in which the question was as to the nature
of the cause of action, this court said: "Some statutes imposing individual liability are merely in affirmation of the common law, while others impose an individual liability other than
that at common law. If § 5151 had provided that subscribing
to stock or taking shares of stock Amounted to a promise directly to every creditor, then that liability would have been a
liability by contract. But the words of § 5151 do not mean
that the stockholder promises the creditor as surety for the
debts of the corporation, but merely impose a liability on him
as secondary to those debts, which debts remain distinct, and
to which the stockholder is not a party. The liability is a
consequence of the breach by the corporation of its contract
to pay, and is collateral and statutory.

.

.

.

But here the

right to sue did not obtain until the Comptroller of the Currency had acted, and his order was the basis of the suit. The
statute of limitations did not commence to run until assessment made, and then it ran as against an action to enforce the
statutory liability, and not an action for.breach of contract."
In Robinson v. Turrentine, 59 Fed. Rep. 554, 555, it was
held that the liability of a married woman for an assessment
upon national bank stock did not grow out of contract, although it was one of a class of liabilities which may be enforced
by an action in form ex contractu. In the same case it was
said: "By the banking laws of the United States all the shares
in the stock of national banks are liable tr an assessment like
the one levied on the stock of plaintiff's bank. To hold that
a state law, were there such a law, could except certain shares
from the liability, would enable States to defeat the policy
of the Federal Government in establishing the national banking system. That the Congress has power to establish and
legislate" for such banks has not, since 1819, been an open
question. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316. If a purchase-of stocks in a national bank by a married woman without the written consent of her husband gives her the ownership
of such stock, judgment must be given against the feme de-

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVELL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fendant. If she owned the stock at the failure of the bank,
she is liable to the assessment; if she did not., she is not liable.
While the Federal Government exclusively controls the question of the liabilities of stockholders in national banks, it is not
doubted but that a State has power to say that, for reasons
seeming good to its legislature, and not in conflict with organic
law, a particular class of persons shall not be permitted to own
particular classes of property."
In Kerr v. Urie, 86 Maryland, 72, 77, it was held that a
married woman residing in Maryland was capable of holding
shares of stock in a national bank located in Texas, and, as such
shareholder, was subject to the personal liability imposed by
the national banking laws, without regard to the question
whether she was entitled under the laws of the State where the
bank was located to become the owner of such stock. The
court said: "We conclude, therefore, that by virtue of the
transfer in Maryland, and without regard to the laws of Texas,
Mrs. Urie became the equitable and real holder of the stock
in question, and if this be so, no question as to her powers of
disposition, or as to whether she is or is not capable under the
laws of Texas to make contracts, can arise in this case, for the
liability of the stockholder arises not under any law of Texas,
which it is contended has not been proven in this case, but
under - the act of Congress. And the contracts which it is
claimed she is liable on are not her contracts, but the contracts
of the bank. Witters v. Sowles, 35 Fed. Rep. 641; § 5152,
Rev. Stat. The right to be a stockholder is given to her by
the law of the State where she resides, and her rights and
liabilities as such are provided by the acts of Congress."
Recurring to the provisions in the statute and constitution
of Florida, it is clear that they do not incapacitate a married
woman in that 'State. from becoming the owner by bequest or
otherwise of stock in a national banking association. On the
contrary, it seems that all property, real and personal, owned
by a married woman before marriage, or lawfully acquired
afterward by gift, devise, bequest, descent or purchase, is her

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

separate property. Nevertheless, it is said, by the settled
course of decisions in that State a married woman cannot bind
herself personally by contract at law or in equity, or by becoming a partner, or by making a promissory note. Dollner
v. Snow, 16 Florida, 86; Hodges v. Price, 18 Florida, 342;
Goss v. Furman,21 Florida, 406; De Graum v. Jones, 23 Florida,
83, and Randall v. Bourgardez, 23 Florida, 264. But those,
cases are not in point here; for, in each of them, the personal
liability attempted to be imposed upon the married woman
arose entirely out of contract, express or implied, on her part,
and not by force of any statute. The argument made in this
case in behalf of Mrs. Christopher assumes that the liability
sought to be fastened upon her arises wholly out of contract;
that is, out of an implied obligation, at the time her name was
placed on the registry of shares and she received dividends,
to contribute to the-extent of the value of such shares to the
payment of the debts of the bank. But that implied obligation, although contractual in its nature, could not standing
alone, be made the basis of this action. Without the statute
she could not be made liable individually for the debts of the
bank at all. No implied obligation to contribute to the payment of such debts could arise from the single fact that she
became and was a shareholder. Her liability for the debts
of the bank is created by the statute, although in a limited
sense there is an element of contract in her having become a
shareholder; and the right of the receiver to maintain this action depends upon, and has its sanction in, the statute creating
liability against each shareholder, in whatever way he may have
become such. There have been cases in which there appeared
such elements of contract as were deemed sufficient, in particular circumstances, to support an action. Concord First Nat.
Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364, 372; Whitman v. Oxford Nat.
Bank, 176 U. S.559, 565, 566; Matteson v. Dent, 176 U. S.521.
But that fact does not justify the contention that an action
upon an assessment made by the Comptroller is nbt based upon
the statute.

CHRISTOPHER v. NORVEML.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In McDonald v. Thompson, 184 U. S. 71, 73, which was the
case of a formal subscription to the capital stock of a national
bank, and which also involved the meaning of the words
"contract or promise in writing" in a statute of limitations,
the court said: "There was no contract in writing With the
creditors or depositors of the bank, and none with the bank
itself, to which the receiver could be said to be a privy, except
to pay for the stock as originally issued. Granting there was
a contract with the creditors to pay a sum equal to the value
of the stock taken, in addition to the sum invested in the
shares, this was a contract created by the statute, and obligatory upon the stockholders by reason of the statute existing at the time of their subscription; but it was not a contract
in writing within the meaning of the'Nebraska act [of limitation], since the writing-that is, the subscription-contained no
reference whatever to the statutory obligation, and no promise
to respond beyond the amount of the subscription. In none of
the numerous cases upon the subject in this court is this obligation treated as an express contract, but as one created by the
statute and implied from the express contract of the stockholders to take and pay for shares in the association." All
shareholders of stock in national banks become such, subject
to the condition, declared by statute, that liability, to the
extent of their shares, is imposed upon them for the contracts, debts and engagements of the bank. The statute, in
effect, says to all who become owners of national bank stock,
no matter in what way they become shareholders, that they
cannot enjoy the benefits accruing to shareholders, and escape
liability for the contracts, debts and engagements of the bank.
In other words, the Government that created the bank haiprescribed the terms upon which ownership of its shares could
be acquired, and individual liability incurred-by shareholders
-executors, administrators, guardians or trustees only being
exempted from individual liability. No exception is made in
favor of married women holding property. If the constitution
o statutes of Florida had expressly incapacitated or forbidden

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

201 U. S.

a married woman from becoming under any circumstances the
owner of bank shares-as counsel for plaintiff in error insists
is the case-a question would be presented that does not arise
upon the record of this case; and as the local law does not
forbid married women from becoming the owners of bank
stock, we do not go beyond what is necessary for the decision
of the present case under the national banking law. All that
we now decide is that the court. below properly interpreted
the statute, and did not err in rendering a personal judgment
against Mrs. Christopher, as a shareholder in the bank, for the
amount due under the assessment of the Comptroller. In
what way the plaintiff may proceed in order to obtain satisfaction of the judgment is not a question to be determined
in this action.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

concur in

the result.

WYMAN v. WALLACE.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 191.

Submitted March 6, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Where a national bank has gone into liquidation under § 5220, Rev. Stat.,
and one holding its notes seeks to enforce the additional liability imposed

by § 5151, Rev. Stat., against a stockholder by a suit in the nature of a
creditor's bill on behalf of himself and all other creditors, a case is presented under the laws of the United States giving the Circuit Court jurisdiction independently of diverse citizenship, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final but an appeal therefrom will lie to this
court.
It is not necessary in order to maintain such a suit that the creditor should
first obtain judgment on the notes.
A national bank finding itself embarrassed though possessed, of a large
amount of assets apparently in excess of its obligations is not prohibited

