HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Syllabus.

shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars." The matter in
dispute here was that part of the judgment of the District Court
Which was disallowed by the Supreme Court and that was less
than five thousand dollars.
Appeal dismissed.

HALE v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 340.

Argued January 4, 5, 1906.-Decided March 12, 1906.

Under the practice in this country the examination of witnesses by a Fedeml grand jury need not be preceded by a presentment or formal indictment, but the grand jury may proceed, either upon their own knowledge
or upon examination of witnesses, to inquire whether a crime cognizable

by the court has been committed, and if so they may indict upon such
evidence. In summoning witnesses it is sufficient to apprise them
of the names of the parties with respect to whom they will be called
to testify without indicating the nature of the charge against" them,
or laying a basis by a formal indictment.
The examination of a witness before a grand jury is a "proceeding" within
the meaning of the proviso to the general appropriation act of 1903, that
no person shall be prosecuted on account of anything which he may
testify in any proceeding under the Anti-trust Law. The word should
receive as wide a construction as is necessary to protect the witness in
his disclosures.
The interdiction of the Fifth Amendment operates only where a witness
is asked to incriminate himself, and does not apply if the criminality is
taken away. A witness is not excused from testifying before a grand
jury under a statute which provides for immunity, because he may not
be able, if subsequently indicted, to procure the evidence necessary to
maintain his plea. The law takes no account of the practical difficulty
which a party may have in procuring his testimony.
A witness cannot refuse to testify before a Federal grand jury in face of
a Federal statute granting immunity from prosecution as to matters
sworn to, because the immunity does not extend to prosecutions in a
state court. In granting. immunity the only danger to be guarded against
is one within the same jurisdiction and under the same sovereignty.
The benefits of the Fifth Amendment are exclusively for a witness compelled
to testify against himself in a criminal case, and he cannot set them up
on behalf of any other person or individual, or of a corpo ation of which
he is an officer or employ6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

A witness who cannot avail himself of the Fifth Amendment as to oral
testimony, because of a statute granting him immunity from prosecution, cannot set it up as against the production of books and papers, as
the same statute would equally grant him immunity in respect to matters proved thereby.
The search and seizure clause of the Fourth Amendment was not intended
to interfere with the power of courts to compel the production upon a
trial of documentary evidence through a subpwna duces tecum.
While an individual may lawfully refuse to answer incriminating questions
unless protected by an immunity statute, a corporation is a creature of
the State, and there is a reserved right in the legislature to investigate
its contracts and find out whether it has exceeded its powers.
There is a clear distinction between an individual and a corporation, and the
latter, being a creature of the State, has not the constitutional right to
refuse to submit its books and papers for an examination at the suit of
the State; and an officer of a corporation which is charged with criminal
violation of a statute cannot plead the criminality of the corporation as
a refusal to produce its books.
Franchises of a corporation chartered by a State are, so far as they involve
questions of interstate commerce, exercised in subordination to the power
of Congress to regulate such commerce; and while Congress may not haye
general visitatorial power over state corporations, its powers in vindication of its own laws are the same as if the corporation had been created
by an act of Congress.
A corporation is but an association of individuals with a distinct name and
legal entity, and in organizing itself as a collective body it waives no
appropriate constitutional immunities, and although it cannot refuse
to produce its books and papers it is entitled to immunity under the
Fourth Amendment against unreasonablesearches and seizures, and where
an ex~amination of its books is not authorized by an act of Congress a
subpona duces tecum requiring the production of practically all of its
book s and papers is as indefensible as a search warrant would be if
couched in similar-terms.
Although the subpana duces tecum may be too broad in its requisition, where
the witness has refused to answer any question, or to produce any books
or papers, this objection would not go to the validity of the order committing him for contempt.

THIS was an appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court
made June 18, 1905, dismissing a writ of habeas corpus
and remanding the petitioner Hale to the custody of the
marshal.
The proceeding originated in a subpona duces tecum, issued
April 28, 1905, commanding Hale to appear before the grand
jury at a tinle and place named, to "testify and give evidence

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in a certain action now pending

....

in the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
between the United States of America and the American Tobacco Company and MacAndrews & Forbes Company on the
part of the United States, and that you bring with you and
produce at the time and place aforesaid":
1. All understandings, agreements, arrangements, or contracts, whether evidenced by correspondence, memoranda, formal agreements, or other writings, between MacAndrews &
Forbes Company and six other firms and corporations named,
from the date of the organization of the said MacAndrews
& Forbes Company.
2. All correspondence by letter or telegram between MacAndrews & Forbes Company and six other firms and corporations.
3. All reports made or accoun'ts rendered by these six companies or corporations to the principal company.
4. Any agreements or contracts or arrangements, however
evidenced, between MacAndrews & Forbes Company and the
Amsterdam Supply Company or the American Tobacco Company or the Continental Company or the Consolidated Tobacco
Company.
5. All letters received by the MacAndrews & Forbes Company
since the date of its organization from thirteen other companies named, located in different parts of the United States
and also copies of all correspondence with such companies.
Petitioner appeared before the grand jury in obedience to the
subpoena, and before being sworn asked to be advised of the
nature of the investigation in which he had been summoned;
whether under any statute of the United States, and the specific charge, if any had been made, in order that he might learn
whether or not the grand jury had any lawful right to make the
inquiry, and also that he be furnished with a copy of the complaint, information or proposed indictment upon which they
were acting; that he had been informed that there was no ac
tion pending in the Circuit Court as stated in-the subpoena, and
that the grand jury was investigating no specific charge against

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

any one, and he therefore declined to answer: First, because
there was no legal warrant for his examination, and, second,
because his answers might tend to incriminate him.
After stating his name, residence and the fact that he was
secretary and treasurer of the MacAndrews & Forbes Company,
he declined to answer all other questions in regard to the business of the company, its officers, the location of its office, or
its agreement or arrangements with other companies. He was
thereupon advised by the Assistant District Attorney that this
was a proceeding under the Sherman Act to protect trade and
commerce against unlawful restraint and monopolies; that under the act of 1903, amendatory thereof, no person could be
prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture on account
of:any matter or thing concerning which he might testify or
produce documentary evidence in any prosecution under said
act, and that he thereby offered and assured appellant immunity from punishment. The witness still persisted in his refusal to answer all questions. He also declined to produce
the papers and documents called for in the subpoena:
First. Because it would have been a physical impossibility
to have gotten them together within the time allowed.
Second. Because he was advised by counsel that he was under no legal obligations to produce anything called for by the
subpoena.
Third. Because they might tend to incriminate him.
-Whereupon the grand jury reported the matter to the court,
and made a presentment that Hale was in contempt, and that
the proper proceedings should be taken. Thereupon all the
parties appeared before the Circuit judge, who directed the
witness to answer the questions and produce the papers. Appellant still persisting in his refusal, the Circuit judge held him
.to be in contempt, and committed him to the custody of the
marshal until he should ansver the questions and produce the
papers. A writ of habeas corpus was thereupon sued out, and
a hearing had before another judge of the same.court, who discharged the writ and remanded the petitioner.

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. De Lancey Nicoll, with whom Mr. Junius Parker and
Mr. John D. Lindsay were on the brief, for appellant in this case
and in No. 341 argued simultaneously herewith.'
There were no facts authorizing the Circuit Court to entertain any charge against appellant. Unless the grand jury in
prosecuting the investigation acted within its jurisdiction, the
court had no authority to punish the witness for his supposed
contumacy in refusing to answer questions. People v. Cassels,
5 Hill, 164; Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713; Scott v. McNeal,
154 U. S. 34; Cooley, Const. Lim. 7th ed. p. 575; United States
v. Terry, 39 Fed. Rep. 355.
No judicial matter was pending in the Circuit Court when
appellant was required to attend before the grand jury, or when
the orders of May 5 and May 8 were made, in or upon which he
could lawfully be required to testify or produce evidence.
Notwithstanding the subpwna said "in a certain action," no
action was pending; there can be no action, prosecution or
criminal proceeding, until after someone has been formally accused of acts constituting a criminal offense by indictment or
by information. Post v. United States, 161 U. S. 583, 587.
Nor was there any particular charge against the corporations
named in the subpoenaduces tecum, or under investigation. The
.grand jury was merely engaged in an effort to find out whether
they had or had not transgressed the Sherman Act.
An ex parte investigation, based upon mere suspicion, without
any complaint or charge, and that may be without result, is not
a "case" or "controversy" within the meaning of the Constitution. Pacific Railway Commission v. Stanford, 32 Fed. Rep.
241; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447.
The grand jury was not in the exercise of its proper and legitimate authority in prosecuting the alleged investigation; consequently its requirement, and the orders of the court, based
upon it and the witness's refusal, were coram non judice and Void.
IMcAlister

v. Henkel, pos4'p. 90.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U. S.'

At common law the powers of grand juries were restricted'to
indictments returned after the examination of witnesses, and
presentments made upon their own knowledge or observation.
The former Was a written accusation of one or more persons
of a crime or misdemeanor, preferred to, and presented upon
oath by the grand jury. Blackstone, Bk. IV, c. 23.
The grand jury was continued as a part of our Federal institutions by the Fifth Amendment; but its powers and duties,
not being defined by the Constitution or any Federal statute,
are only such as grand juries possessed at common law, namely,
of considering and acting upon indictments previously framed
and laid before them by a known prosecutor, and of presenting facts within their own knowledge. United States v. Mundell, Iredell, J., 1795, 8 Virginia (6 Call), 245, 247.
No Federal statute authorizes a grand jury to inquire into
matters called to their attention by the court or prosecuting attorney, where there is no specific charge against one or more
individuals.. Such a statute would be unconstitutional, and the
idea that a grand jury has practically unlimited inquisitorial
power rests, upon various loose and ill-considered utterances
in reported cases. 17 Am. &.Eng. Ency. 2d ed. 1279.
No case in this country holds that there can be a legitimate
inquiry without a previous charge; and except in Tennessee,.
where there is legislative authority in respect to certain offenses, the idea of general inquisitorial power is repudiated.
Re.Lester, 77 Georgia, 143; Lewis v. Commissioners, 74 N. Car.
194; Ward v. State, 2 Missouri, 120. See also Frisbie v. United
States,. 157 U. S. 160; People v. Kelly, 24 N. Y. 74; O'Hair v.
People, 32 Il. App. 277; Webster's Case, 5 Greenleaf, 432; Post
v. United States, 161 U. S.585; Beavers v. Henkel, 194. U. S.
73, 84.
Although a grand jury may send for witnesses before indictment actually framed, some specific charge must be pending
before them directed against a particular person or persQns.
Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S.547; United States v. Kilpatrick, 16 Fed. Rep. 765; Lloyd v. Carpenter, 3 Pa. L. J. 188.

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

I A grand jury does not possess, and cannot, under the constitution of this State exercise, purely inquisitorial power, because
such power is no sense a judicial one.
The greatest evil incident to the Star Chamber was its inquisitorial procedure. Upon suggestion or suspicion citizens
were subpoenaed and subjected to examination under the ex
officio oath. See preamble of act for the abolition of that court
(July 5, 1641; 16 Charles I, c.- 10; 5 S. R., 110) reciting the
violation of the statute of 25 Edw. III.
To exercise judicial power there must be parties to the proceeding, .amatter in controversy,.an assertion and a denial; in
short, a distinct issue to be determined. Cooley, Const. Lim.
132; Matter of Pacific Railway Commission v. Stanford, 32 Fed.
Rep. 241; Interstate Con?. Com. v. Brim son; 154 U. S.447.
The theory of our criminal proceeding, like that of Great
Britain, .is accusatory and not inquisitorial. United States v.
James, 60 Fed. Rep. 257. See opinion of Chief Justice Marshall
in United States v. Hill, 1 Brock. C. C. 159.
Section 1 of the act of February 25, 1903, does not give the
petitioner immunity from prosecution; on account of the trans.actions concerning which he was directed to testify and produce
evidence before the grand jury, the investigation before that
body not being a" proceeding, suit or prosecution ' under either
of ;the acts referred to in the act of February 25, 1903.; consequently the petitioner was within the legitimate exercise of his
right under the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, when he
refused to testify or produce evidence before the grand jury on
the ground tlat by so doing lie might have criminated himself.
The legislative guaranty must have a broad construction in
favor of the right which it is intended to secure. Counselman
v. Hitchcock, supra..
See also as to similar language in the act of February 11,
1893, Brown v. Walkcr, 161 U. S. 591; but the immunity is
worthless here unless the language subsequently used, "proceeding, suit or prosecution," embraces a grand jury investi-

gation..

If it does not, the witness is deprived of his constitu-

voL. cci-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

201 U. S.

tional rights; any reasonable doubt on this head should be
resolved in his favor.
A witness hereafter pleading the immunity afforded by this
act as a bar to criminal prosecution will be held to strict proof,
especially if he seeks to plead this Federal statute as a bar to
a state' prosecution. See Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372.
An inquiry before a grand jury is not a "suit" nor a" prosecution.:" Post v. United States, supra; Paul v. Virginia, 148
U. S. 107; State v. Wolcott, 21 Connecticut, 279; Constitution,
Fifth Amendment.
The act of February 25, 1903, is unconstitutional in that it
undertakes to deprive the various States of their right and
power to prosecute persons concerned in transactions, which
violate their own laws, thus infringing upon the provision of
the Tenth Amendment. Brown v. Walker, supra, is against
this proposition, but see Jack v. Kansas, 199 U, S. 372, where
it is in effect limited by the improbability only of state prosecution rather than the right of the State to proceed.
The order of May 5 requiring appellant to produce the papers
called for in the subpena duces tecum was void under the Fourth
Amendment. Its enforcement would amount to the ancient
seizure and search which continued by usage in England until
the decision of Lord Camden in Entick v. Carrington,19 How.
St. Tr. 1029. See also Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616,
626; Hartranft's Appeal, 85 Pa. St. 433; Ex parte Brown, 72
Missouri, 83; In re Lester, 77 Georgia, 143; In re Morer, 101
N.' W. Rep. 588.
The writ must also particularly describe the papers desired.
Ex parte Brown, supra; Sandford v. Nichols, 13 Massachusetts,
286.
A corporation is entitled to the same immunities as an individual. It cannot be compelled to incriminate itself. Wigmore on Evidence, §2259; Logan v. Penna. R. R. Co., 132 Pa.
St. 403; Santa Clara County v. Railroad Company, 118 U: S,
394; King of Sicilies v. Willcox, 7 St. Tr. (N. S.) 1049.
By the express provisions of the Sherman Act corporations

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

are deemed to be persons. Section 8. A corporation can only be
examined through its officers, directors or agents. In the
present case the Governinent undertook deliberately by that
method to compel the corporation to submit to examination,
not as a witness, but by forcin!g one of its officers and directors
to produce its books and papers for the sole purpose of ascertaining whether or riot the corporation had committed a crime
under the Sherman Act.
The rule that the protection of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments is the personal privilege of the witness and cannot be

claimed for the benefit of auiothcr has no possible application
to the case of an officer, director or agent of a corporation who
seeks to secure, to the corporation its constitutional rights and
immunities; for these rights can only be asserted through its
officers, directors and agents.
In this view the witness is not sveking to invoke the privilege
of another, but the corporation itself invokes its own privilege
in the. only manner and by the only means it can einploy for
that purpose.
If, under these circumstances, it could be said that the corporation was a witness, and, therefore, entitled to the imnunity
afforded by the statute, this might, perhaps, meet our present
contention. But the position of the Government is that. the
avowed purcorporation is not protected by the statute. Its
pose is to use the papers as the basis of an indictment against
the corporation. See Davies v. Lincoln National Bank, 4 N. Y.
Morse, 101 N. W.
Suppl. 373; Rex V.Purnell,Wilson, 239; In i'e
Rep. 588.
Mr. Henry IV.Taft, Special Assistant to:The Attorney General, with whom The Attorney General and Alr. Felix H. Levy,
Special Assistant to The Attorney General, were on the brief,
for the United States in this case and in No.. 341:
The procedure of a grand jury in this country at the time of
the enactment of the Fifth Amendment was, and, with unimportant exceptions, has remained quite different from that of

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the. United States.

201 U. S.

the similar body in England. Under this procedure the grand
jury proceeds, before a bill of indictment is framed, to investigate, at the instance of the court or of their own body or of the
district attorney, a suspected or alleged crime and to determine
whether it has been committed, and, if so, who committed it.
In so doing they exercise broad inquisitorial powers. The administration of the criminal law in this country necessitates this
procedure, and this was clearly within the common law powers
of a grand jury in 1791 when the Fifth Amendment was adopted
however different the usual practice in England may have been
at that time.
The power of a grand jury extends to the broadest kind of
an inquisitorial proceeding. Counsel for appellant have mistaken a radical change of mere procedure for an attempted enlargement of power. Or if it is a question of power, long before
1791 the American idea prevailed that the State and not the
individual is the agency which should start a criminal prosecution; that this was vitally different from the English idea and
necessarily involved radical changes in the grand jury system
and the extension of its powers; and that it was with reference
to such .a system and such powers that the Fifth Amendment
was adopted.
During the first hundred years of our independence precedents are not numerous and authority for grand jury procedure
rests not so much upon adjudications of the courts, as upon
practice sanctioned by long usage and general recognition.
As to power of grand jury to find indictments on its own investigations, see lectures delivered by Judge Wilson in 1791 and
1792, Works James Wilson, ed. 1896, p. 213, and charge of
Judge Addison, 1791, Common Pleas Court, Fifth Circuit, Addison's Pa. Rep. Appx. 38; but see Lloyd v. Carpenter, 1845,
5 Penn. L. Jour. 55 and State y. Smith, 1838, Meigs, 99.
United States v. Mundel (1795), 8 Virginia (6 Call.), 245, does
not support' appellant's contention. Its tendency is the other
way. See also Ward v. State (1829), 2 Missouri, 120; State v.
Freeman (1842), 13 N, H. 488.

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

It thus appears that at the date of the adoption of the Fifth
Amendment and for fifty years thereafter under the procedure
sanctioned by usage and precedent, an American grand jury
(1) could proceed in cases other than those in which a private
prosecutor presented a duly engrossed indictment, and (2) on
its own motion or at the instance of the court or the prosecuting
attorney, could (and necessarily by an inquisitorial method)
investigate an alleged or suspected crime and after the investigation direct an indictment to be drawn.
The legality of the grand jury, without the agency of. the
district attorney, calling witnesses, whom they interrogated as
to their knowledge concerning a Cuban expedition, was Austained, and the broad inquisitorial powers of grand juries was
recognized. See report in note to § 337, Wharton's Crim. P1.
& Pr. 8th ed., and see also the charge delivered by Justice Field
to a grand jury in California. 30 Fed. Cas. 994; 2 Sawyer, 667.
The limitations placed by Mr. Justice Ficld upon the inquisitorial powers of the grand jury do not relate to matters brought
to their attention either by the court or by the district attorney,
and that they permit a general investigation of a crime upon the
"personal knowledge" of a juror, where such knowledge goes
no further than to include "facts which tend to show" that a
crime has been committed, which, of course, implies the power
to call witnesses other than the grand juror having such knowledge. See alsi:u United States v. Kinball, 117 Fed. Rep. 156;
Frisbie v. United States, 157 U. S. 160; United States v. Reed,
27 Fed. Cas. 737; United State.s v. Terry, 39 Fed. Rep. 355;
United States v. ]IcAro!y, 18 How. Pr. 380.
In the state courts see State v. Terry, 30 Missouri, 368; Ex
parle Brown, 72 Missouri, 83; Conion.wealth v. Sm yth, 11 Cush.
473; State v. lVolcott, 21 Connecticut, 272; State v. Magrath,
44 N. J. L. 227; Blatiey v. State, 74 Maryland, 153; Peopte v.
Northey, 77 California, 618; McCullough v. Commonwealth, 67
Pa. St. 30; Rowland v. Commonw:ealth, 82 Pa. St. 405; Thompson and Merr'iam on ,hiries, §§ 612, 615; Wharton's Crim. P1.
& Pr. 8th ed. § 338. O'Hoir v. People, 32 Ill. App. 277; State

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

201 U. S.

v. Smith, Meigs, 99; Lewis v. Board of Commissioners,74 N. Car.
194, and United States v. Kilpatrick, 16 Fed. Rep. 765, distinguished.
A specific charge against a particular person is not necessary
to give the grand jury jurisdiction. The English practice of
private prosecutors has never prevailed. The grand jury acts
on information of the district attorney or from its ovn knowledge or information otherwise obtained. Thompson and Merriam on Juries, § 609; 1 Bishop's Crim. Pr. §278; charge of
Mr. Justice Field, 30 Fed. Cas. 994; The King v. John Lukens,
1 Dallas, 7.
In its beginnings the grand jury seems to have been devised
as a convenient method to assist itinerant justices in England
in detecting crime and punishing it. They seem clearly to-have
been expected to investigate, and originally they indicted frequently, on mere rumor. See Pollock & Maitland's History of
the English Law, vol. 2, pp. 622, 639, for description of the
grand jury before the time of Edward I, founded on Bracton
and Britton; Bracton, "De Corona," Twiss' ed. vol. 2, c. 22,
fol. 143, p. 451; Reeves' History English Law, vol. 1, p. 457;
Stephens' History Crim. Law. vol. 1, p. 253; Stubbs' Constitutional History of England, vol. 1, p. 661 et seq.; Earl of Macclesfield v. Starkey (1684), 10 Howell's State Trials, 1330.
A specific charge involves definiteness. Date and circumstances and the technical accuracy characteristic of an indictment are not necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction by the
grand jury.
A witness could object to answering a question because the
proceeding was not properly inaugurated, demand a.ruling by
the court as to whether under the charge presented the question was admissible; and thus an investigation begun before
the grand jury would soon assume the aspect of a trial in court,
-subverting the whole purpose of the grand jury system and
seriously affecting the administration of' justice.
If appellant's claim be conceded that a charge be necessary,
it must follow that he can object to the admissibility of evidence

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

on the ground that it is not'competent under the charge. But
the granting of such a right would necessarily result in a violation of the secrecy of the proceedings of the grand jury and of
the rule that a witnoss has no right to question the regularity
of the proceedings of a grand jury. United States v.'Brown, 1.
Sawy. 533, Fed. Cas. 14,671; McGregor '. United States, 134
Fed. Rep. 187; United States v. Cobban, 127 Fed. Rep. 713;
United States v. Farrington,5 Fed: Rep. 343; United .States v.
Ambrose, 3 Fed. Rep. 283.
The court will assume that the district attorney and the grand
jury proceeded in accordance with their sworn duties and in
accordance with law. United States v. Terry, 39 Fed. Rep. 355;
United States v. Hunter, 15 Fed. Rep. 712; United States v.
Reed, 2 Blatchf'. 435.
A witness before a grand jury has no right to raise objections
as to the constitution of that body, unless his constitutional
rights are clearly in danger. Ex parte Haymond, 91 California,
545.
No inconvenient or unjust results can attend the adoption of
the rule the Government contends for, and sound public policy
demands that it be held that the action. was properly set in
motion in this case.
It was contended below that to concede inquisitorial powers
to a grand jury without in every case requiring a specific charge
against a particular person would open up under the guise of
the administration of justice possibilities of wrong'and oppression "beyond conception."
In -the many jurisdictions where'broader inquisitorial powers
exist and have been exercised by grand juries, they have not
been used as an engine of oppression. The system is surrounded with such safeguards that the danger of abuses is very
remote.
The scope of the powers of a grand jury is limited -by the
jurisdiction of the court of which it is an appendage. United
States v. Hill, 1 Brock. 156. It is also subject to the direction
of the court and cannot effectually exercise some of its most

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

201 U. S.

important functions without the interposition of the court. It
must resort to the court to enforce by subpena the attendance
of witnesses, and it is only through the order of the court that
witnesses may be punished for contumacy. Commonwealth v.
Bannon, 97 Massachusetts, 214; Heard v. Pierce, 8 Cush. 338.
The court may inquire whether the grand jury has exceeded its
powers, People v. Naughton, 7 Abb. U. S.421, 426; Denning v. The State, 22 Arkansas, 131, 132, and may punish the
entire jury or any of its members. Turk v. State, 7 Ohio Pt.II,
240, 243; State v. Cowan, 1 Head, 280; Re Ellis, Hemp. 10.
Thus, while the grand jury is an independent body, its independeiice is confined within well-defined limits.
Whether a cause or action under the title mentioned in the
subpoena was pending is unimportant. The proceeding might
have proceeded without a title. Titles of proceedings before a
grand jury are invariably fictitious. United States v. Reed, 27
Fed. Cas. 737; Appeal oj Hartrant,85 Pa. St. 433.
The Fourth Amendment does not relate to the compulsory
production of papers for use as evidence. Summers v. Moseley,
2 Cr. & M- 477; Wertheim v. Continental R. & T. Co., 15 Fed.
Rep. 718; Adams v. United States, 192 U. S. 585; Interstate
Com. Com. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25; In re Moser, 101 N. W. Rep.
591; 1 Greenleaf, Evidence, 16th ed. § 469a; Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616:
Unreasonableness under the Fourth Amendment cannot be
predicated upon either the- indefiniteness of the description of
the books and papers called for'in the subpoena or upon the
volume of evidence and the inconvenience in producing it.
United States v. Babcock, 3 Dillon, 567; In re Storror, 63 Fed.
Rep. 564;' United States' v. Tilden, 10 Ben. 566; In re Mitchell,
12 Abb. Pr. 249.
It was not for the witness to determine whether the- description. of the papers was sufficiently definite or the papers themselves material 'to the inquiry, or whether the production of such
a volume of papers was oppressive. I-e must comply, so' far
as it was possible, with the terms of the writ and produce the

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

papers submitting, as he might be advised, any objection to
their use in evidence. See note by John D. Lawson, 15 Fed.
Rep. 723; see also Doe v. Kelly, 4 Dowl. 273; Key v. Russell,
7 Dowl. 693; Amey v. Long, 9 East, 483; Holtz v. Schmidt, 2
Jones & Sp. 28; Bull v. Loveland, 10 Pick. 9; Chaplain v. Briscoe, 5 Sm. & M. 198; Corsen v. Dubois, 1 Holt, 239; Field v.
Beaumont, 1 Swanst. 209; Mitchell's Case, 12 Abb. Pr. 249; Doe
v. Clifford, 2 C. & K. 448; In re O'Toole, 1 Tuck. 39. See also
Wigmore on Evidence, § 2200, at page 2979.
Every person subject to the jurisdiction of a competent tribunal is bound to give testimony. This is a "solemn and important duty that every citizen owes to his country." Ward
v. State, supra.

He is privileged to decline only in case his

answers may tend to criminate him. Our system of jurisprudence does not permit a witness to refuse to answer because he
prefers not to or even because his answer will tend to degrade
-him, except, only, where degrading testimony is interposed
solely to affect his credibility. 1 Greenl. on Ev. §§ 454, 455.
See cases cited. Where the reason of the privilege ceases the
privilege also ceases. Broom's Legal Maxims, 654; Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S.597, 599.
The protection of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments is based
alone upon the personal privilege of the witness... The objections urged by the witness cannot be relied upon for the benefit
of the corporation of which he is an officer, and if the privilege
cannot be asserte(l in behalf of a corporation under the Fifth
Amendment it is plain that it may not be so ,availed of under
the Fourth Amendment.
Where the question of criminality is not involved, an officer
of a corporation having the books of the company in his custody is bound to produce them in obedience to a .ubpaa duces
tecum. Wertheim v. Continental R'y & Trust Co., 15 Fed.
Rep. 718. The same rule applies,'even though the l)roduction
of the evidence may tend to incriminate the corporation; one
of its officers may not assert in its behalf the privilege secured
to persons by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. See

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of,the Court.

201 U. S.

United States v. Amedy, 11 Wheat. 412; Beaston v. The Farmers' Bank of Delaware, 12 Pet. 134. That word in the Fifth
Amendment does not include corporations, as the mischief intended to be reached did not apply to corporations.
The privilege embodied in the Amendment is upheld on
grounds .wlich vary to sonic extent; but the privilege is personal and is based upon the consideration of the law for the
individual in his capacity as a witness. Brown v. Walker, 161
U. S. 596; Best on Evidence, 9th ed. p. 113; 3 Taylor on Evidence, § 145:3 1' Greenleaf on Evidence, 16th ed. § 469d, and
cases cited in. frotes; Commonwealth v. Shaw, 4 Cush. 594;
Phillipps on Evidence, 4th Am. ed. p. 935; Starkie on Evidence, 10th Am. ed. 4; Wigmore on Evidence, § 2263; .State
v. Wentworth, 65 Maine,, 234, 241 ; Reynolds v. Reynolds, 15 Cox
Cr. Cases, 108, 115; Bartlett v. Lewisj 12 C. B. (N. S.) 249, 265.
While sporadic cases look in a differefit direction, there have
been many decisions, both in this country and in England, in
which the courts have refused to permit the privilege to be
asserted by an officer or employ in blehalf of a corporation
of which he is the representative. New York Life Ins. Co. v.
People, 195 Illinois, 430; In re MoAser, 101 N.W. Rep. 591; In
re Peasley, 44 Fed. Rep. 271; Gibbons v. Waterloo Bridge, 5
Price, 491; Rex v. Purnell, Wilson, 239.
MR. JUSTICE 13ROWN, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Two issues are presented by the record in this case, which are
so far distinct as to require separate consideration. They depend upon the applicability of different provisions of the Constitution, and, in determining the question of affirmance or reversal, should not be confounded. The first of these involves
the immunity of the witness from oral examination; the second,
the legality of his action in refusing to produce the documents
called for by the subptena du ces terum.
1. The appellant justifies his action in refusing to answer the

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

questions propounded to him, 1st, upon the ground that there
was no specific "charge" pending before the grand jury against
any particular. person; 2d, that the answers would tend to criminate him.
The first objection requires a definition of the word "charge"
as used in this connection, which it is not easy to furnish. An
accused person is usually charged with crime by a complaint
made before a committing magistrate, which has fully performed -its office when the party is committed or held to bail,
and it is quite unnecessary to the finding of an indictment by
a grand jury; or by an information of the district attorney,
which is of no legal value in prosecutions for felony; or by a
presentment usually made, as in this case, for an offense committed in the presence of the jury; or by an indictment which,
as often as not, is drawn after the grand jury has acted upon
the testimony. If another kind of charge be contemplated,
when and by whom must it be preferred? Must it be in writing,
and if so, in what .form? Or may it be oral? The suggestion
of the witness that he should be furnished with a copy of such
charge, if applicable to him is applicable to other witnesses summioned before the grand jury. Indeed, it is a novelty in criminal procedure with which we are wholly unacquainted, and one
which might involve a betrayal of the secrets of the grand jmy
room.
Under the ancient English system, criminal prosecutions were
instituted at the.suit Pf private prosecutors, to which the King
lent his name in the interest of the public peace and good order
of society. In such cases the usual practice was to prepare the
proposed indictment and lay it before the grand jury -for their
consideration. There was much propriety in this, as the most
valuable function oi the grand jury was not only to examine
into the commission of crimes, but to stand between the prosecutor and the accused, and to determine whether the charge was
founded upon credible testimony or was dictated by malice or
personal ill will.
We are pointed to no case, however, holding that a grand jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

cannot proceed without the formality of a written charge. Indeed, the oath administered to the foreman, which has come
down to us from the most ancient times, and is found in Rex v.
Shaftsbury, 8 Howell's State Trials, 759, indicates that the
grand jury was competent to act solely on its own volition.
This oath was that "you shall diligently inquire and true presentments make of all such matters, articles, and things as shall
be given to you in charge, as of. all other matters, and things as
shall come to your own knowledge touching this present service,"
etc. This oath 'bks remained substantially unchanged to the
present day. Theie was a difference, too, in the nomenclature
of the two cases of accusations by private persons and upon
their own knowledge. In the former case their action was embodied in an indictment formally laid before them for their
consideration; in the latter case, in the form of a presentment.
Says Blackstone in his Commentaries, Book IV, page 301:
"A presentment, properly speaking, is a notice taken by a
grand jury of arty offense from their own knowledge or observation, without any bill of indictment laid before them at the suit
of the King, as the presentment of a nuisance, a libel, and the
like; upon which the officer of the court must afterwards frame
an indictment, before the party presented can be put to answer
it."
Substantially the same language is used in 1 Chitty Crim.
Law, 162.
In United States v. Hill, 1 Brock. 156, it was indicated by
Chief Justice Marshall that a presentment and indictment are
to be considered as one act, the second to be considered only
as an amendment to the first, and that the usage of this country
has been to pass over, unnoticed, presentments on which the
attorney does not think it proper to institute proceedings.
In a case arising in Tennessee the grand jury, without the
agency of the district attorney, had called witnesses before
them, whom they interrogated as to their knowledge concerning the then late Cuban expedition. Mr. Justice Catron sustained the legality of the proceeding and compelled the wit-

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.'

Opinion of the Court.'

nesses to answer. His opinion is reported in Wharton's Criminal Pleading and Practice, 8th ed. § 337. He says: "The
grand jury have the undoubted right to send for witnesses and
have them sworn to give evidence generally, and to found presentments on the evidence of such witnesses; and the question
here is, whether a witness thus introduced is legally bound to
disclose whether a crime has been committed, and also who
committed the crime." His charge contains a thorough discussion of the whole subject.
While presentments have largely fallen into disuse in this
country, the practice of grand juries acting upon notice, either
of their own knowledge or upon information obtained by them,
and incorporating their findings in an indictment, still largely
obtains. Whatever doubts there may be with regard to the
early English procedure, the practice in this country, under the
system of public prosecutions carried on by officers of the State
appointed for that purpose, has been entirely settled since the
adoption of the Constitution. 'In a lecture delivered by Mr.
Justice Wilson of this court, who may be assumed to have
known the current practice, before the students of the Unit
versity of Pennsylvania, he says (Wilson's Works, vol' II,
page 213):
"It has been alleged, that grand juries are confined, in their
inquiries, to the bills offered to them, to the crimes given them
in charge, and to the evidence brought before them by the prosecutor. But these conceptions are much too contracted; they
present but a very imperfect and unsatisfactory view of the
duty required from grand jurors, and of the trust reposed in
'them. They are not appointed for the prosecutor or for the
court; they are appointed -for the government and for the people; and of both the government and people it is surely the
concernment that, on one hand, all crimes, whether given or
not given in charge, whether described or not described with
professional skill, should receive the punishment, which the law
denounces; and that, on the other hand, innocence, however
strongly assailed by accusations drawn up in regular form, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.*

201 U. S.

by accusers, marshalled in legal array, should, on full investigation, be secure in that protection, which the law engages that
she shall enjoy inviolate.
"The oath of a grand juryman-and his oath is the commission under which lie acts-assigns no limits, except those
marked by diligence itself, to the course of his inquiries: Why,
then, should it be circumscribed by more contracted boundaries? Shall diligent inquiry be enjoine(l? And shall the means
and opportunities of inquiry be' prohibited or restrained?"
Similar language was used by Judge Addison, President of
the Court of Common Pleas, in charging. the grand jury at the
session of the Common Pleas Court in 1791 (Addison's Pa. Rep.
Appx. p.38):
"If the grand jury, of their own knowledge, or the knowledge
of any of them, or from the examination of witnesses, know of
any offense comnitted in the county, for which no indictment
is preferred to them, it is their duty, either to inform the officer,
who prosecutes for the State, of the nature of the offense, and
desire that an indictment for it be laid before them; or, if they
do not, or if no such indictment be given them, it is their duty
to give such information of it to the court; stating, without any
particular form, the facts and circumstances which constitute
the offense. This is called a presentment."
.The practice then prevailing, with regard to the duty of grand
juries, shows that a presentment may be based not only upon
their own personal knowledge, but from the examination of
witnesses.
While no case has arisen in this court in which the question
has been distinctly presented, the.authorities in the state courts
largely preponderate in favor of the theory that the grand jury
may act upon information received by them from the examination of witnesses without a formal indictment, or other charge
previously laid before them. An analysis of cases approving
of this method of procedure would unduly burden this opinion,
but the following are the leading ones upon the subject: Ward
v, State, 2 Missouri, 120; State v. Terry, 30 Missouri, 368; Ex

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

parte Brown, 72 Missouri, 83; Commonwealth v. Smyth, 11 Cushing, 473; State v. Wolcott, 21 Connecticut, 272, 280; State v.
Magrath, 44 N. J. L. 227; Thompson & Merriam on Juries,
§§ 615-617. In Blaney v. Maryland, 74 Maryland, 153, the
court said:
"However restricted the functions of the grand juries may
be elsewhere, we hold-that in this State they have plenary inquisitorial powers, and may lawfully themselves, and upon
their own motion, originate charges against offenders though
no preliminary proceedings have been had before a magistrate,
and though neither the court not the state's attorney has laid
the matter before them.".
The rulings of the inferior Federal courts are to the same effect. Mr. Justice Field, in charging a grand jury in California
(2 Sawy. 667), said to the grand jury ,acting upon their own
knowledge:
" Not by rumors or reports, but by knowledge acquired from
the evidence before you, and from your own observations.
Whilst. you are inquiring as to one offense, another and a different offense may be proved, or witnesses before you may, in
testifying, commit the crime of perjury."
Similar language was used in United States v. Kimball, 117
Fed. Rep. 156, 161; United States v. Reed, 2 Blatch. 435, 449;
United States v. Terry, 39 Fed. Rep. 355. And in Frisbie v.
United States, 157 U. S. 160, it is said by Mr. Justice Brewer:
"But in this country it is for the grand jury to investigate
any alleged crime, no matter how or by whom suggested to
them, and after determining that the evidence is sufficient to
justify putting the suspected party on trial, to direct the preparation of the formal charge or indictment."
There are doubtless a few cases in the state courts which take
a contrary view, but they are generally such as deal with the
abuses of the system, as the indiscriminate summoning of witnesses with no definite object in view and in a spirit of meddlesome inquiry. In the most pertinent of these cases, In re Lester, 77 Georgia, 143, the Mayor of Savannah, who was also ex

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

officio the presiding judge of a court of record, was called upon
to bring into the Superior Court the "Information Docket" of
his court, to be used as evidence by the State in certain cases
pending before the grand jury. It was held "that the powers
of the body are inquisitorial to a certain extent is undeniable;
yet they have to be exercised within well defined limits.
The grand jury can find no bill nor make any presentment except upon the testimony of witnesses sworn in a particular case,
where the party is charged with a specified offense."
This case is readily distinguishable from the one under consideration, in the fact that the subpoena in this case did specify
the action as one between the United States and the American
Tobacco Company and the MacAndrews-Forbes Company; and
that the Georgia Penal.Code prescribed a form of path for the
grand jury, "that the evidence you shall give the grand jury
on this bill of indictment (or presentment, as the case may be,
here state the case), shall be the truth, ". etc. This seems to
confine the witness to a charge already laid-before the jury.
In Lewis v. Boardof Commissioners, 74 N. Car. 194, the English practice, which requires a preliminary investigation where
the accused can confront the accuser and witnesses with testimony, was adopted as more consonant to principles of justice

and personal liberty. It was further said that none but witnesses have any business before the grand jury, and that the
solicitor may not be present,- even to examine them. , The
practice in this particular in the Federal courts has been quite
the contrary.
Other cases lay down the principle that it must, be made to
appear to the grand jury that th.ere is reason to believe that a
crime has been committed, and that they have not the power
to institute or prosecute an. inquiry on the chance that some
crime may be discovered. In Matter of Morse, 18 N. Y. Criminal Rep. 312; State v. Adams, 70 Tennessqe, 647 (an unimportant case, turning upon a local statute). In Pennsylvania grand
juries are somewhat more restricted in their powers than is
usual in other States, McCullough v. Commonwealth, 67 Pa. St.

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

30; Rowand v. Commonwealth, 82 Pa. St. 405; Commonwealth
v. Green, 126 Pa. St. 531, and in Tennessee inquisitorial powers
are granted in certain cases and withheld in others. State v.
Adams, supra; State v. Smith, Meigs, 99.
We deem it entirely clear that under the practice in this
country, at least, the examination of witnesses need not be
preceded by a presentment or indictment formally drawn up,
but that the grand jury may proceed, either upon their own
knowledge or upon the-examination of witnesss, to inquire for
themselves whether a crime cognizable by the court has been
committed; that the result of their investigations may be subsequently embodied-in an indictment, and that in summoning
witnesses it is quite sufficient to apprise them of the names of
the parties with respect to whom they will be called to testify,
without indicating the nature of the charge against them. So
valuable is this inquisitorial power of the grand jury that, in
States where felonies may be prosecuted by information as well
as indictment, the power is ordinarily reserved to courts of impanelling grand juries for the investigation of riots, frauds and
nuisances, and other cases where it is impracticable to ascertain
in advance the names of the persons implicated. It is impossible to conceive that in such cases the examination of witnesses
must be stopped until a basis is laid by an indictment formally
preferred, when the very object of the examination is to ascertain who shall be indicted. As criminal prosecutions are instituted by the State through an officer selected for that purpose,
he is vested with a certain discretion -with respect to the cases
he will call to their attention, the number and character of the
witnesses, the form in which the indictment shall be drawn,
and other details of the proceedings. Doubtless abuses of this
power may be imagined, as if the dbject of the inquiry "were
merely to pry into the details of domestic or business life. But
were such abuses called to the attention of the court, it would
doubtless be alert to repress them. While the grand jury may
not indict upon current rumors or unverified reports, they may
act upon knowledge acquired either from their own obserVOL. cci-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

vations or upon the evidence of witnesses given before
them.
2. Appellant also invokes the protection-of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that no person "shall
be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself," and in reply to various questions put to him he declined
to answer, on the ground that he would thereby incriminate
himself.
The answer to this is found in a proviso to the General Appropriation Act of February 25, 1903, 32 Stat. 854, 904, that "no
person shall be prosecuted or be subjected to any penalty or
forfeiture for or on account of any transaction, matter or thing
concerning which he may testify or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise, in any proceeding, suit, or prosecution under
said acts," of which the Anti Trust Law is one, providing, however, that "no person so testifying shall be exempt from prosecution or punishment for perjury committed in so testifying."
While there may be some doubt whether the examination of
witnesses before a grand jury is a suit or prosecution, we have
no doubt that it is a "proceeding" within the meaning of this
proviso. The word should receive as wide a construction as is
necessary to protect the witness in his disclosures, whenever
such disclosures are made in pursuance of a judicial inquiry,
whether such inquiry be instituted by a grand jury, or upon the
trial of an indictment found by them. The word "proceeding"
is not a technical one, and is aptly used by courts to designate
an inquiry before a grand jury. It has received this interpretation in a number of cases. Yates v. The Queen, 14 Q. B. D.
648; Hogan v. State, 30 Wisconsin, 428.
The object of the amendment is to establish in express language and upon a firm basis the general principle of English and
American jurisprudence, that no one shall be compelled to give
testimony which may expose him to prosecution for crime. It
is not declared that he may not be compelled to testify to facts
which may impair his reputation for probity, or even tend to
disgrace him, but the,line is drawn 'at testimony that may ex-

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pose him to prosecution.

If the testimony relate to criminal

acts long since past, and against the prosecution of which the
statute of limitations has run, or for which he has already received a pardon or is guaranteed an immunity, the amendment
does not apply.
The interdiction of the Fifth Amendment operates only where
a witness is asked to incriminate himself-in other words, to
give testimony which may possibly expose him to a criminal
charge. But if the criminality has already been taken away,
the Amendment ceases to apply. The criminality provided
against is a present, not a past criminality, which lingers only
as a. memory and involves no present danger of prosecution.
To put an extreme case, a man in his boyhood or youth may
have committed acts which the law pronounces criminal, but
it would never be asserted that he would thereby be made a
criminal for life. It is here that the law steps in and says that
if the offense be outlawed or pardoned, or its criminality has
been removed by statute, the Amendment ceases to apply. The
extent of this immunity was fully considered by this court in
Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, in which the immunity
offered by Rev. Stat. section 860, was declared to be insufficient.
In consequence of this decision an act was passed applicable to
testimony before the Interstate Commerce Commission in almost the exact language of the act of February 25, 1903; above
quoted. This act was declared by this court in Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S. 591, to afford absolute immunity against
prosecution for the offense to which the question related, and
deprived the witness of his constitutional right to refuse to answer. Indeed, the act was passed apparently to meet the declaration in Counselman v. Hitchcock, p. 586, that "a statutory
enactment, to be valid, must afford absolute immunity against
future prosecution for the offense to which the question relates." If the constitutional Amendment were unaffected by
the immunity statute, it would put it within the power of the
witness to be his own judge as to what would tend to incriminate him, and would justify him in refusing to answer almost

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

any question in a criminal case, unless it clearly appeared
that the immunity was not set up in good faith.
We need not restate the reasons given in Brown v. Walker,
both in the opinion of the court, and in the dissenting opinion,
wherein all the prior authorities were reviewed, and a conclusion
reached by a majority of the court, which fully covers the case
under consideration.
The suggestion that a person who has testified compulsorily
before a grand jury may not be able, if subsequently indicted
for some matter concerning which he testified, to procure the
evidence necessary to maintain his plea, is more fanciful than
real. He would have not only his own oath in support of his
immunity, but the notes often, though not always, taken of the
testimony before the grand jury, as well as the testimony of
the prosecuting officer, and of every member of the jury present.
It is scarcely possible that all of them would have forgotten the
general nature of his incriminating testimony or that any serious conflict would arise therefrom. In any event, it is a question relating to the weight of the testimony, which could
scarcely be considered in determining the effect of the immunity statute. The difficulty of maintaining a case upon the
available evidence is a danger which the law does not recognize.
In prosecuting a case, or in setting up a defense, the law takes
no account of the practical difficulty Which either party may
have in procuring his testimony. It judges of the law by the
facts which each party claims, and not by what he-may ultimately establish.
The further suggestion that the statute offers no immunity
from prosecution in the state courts was also fully considered
in Brown v. Walker and held to be no answer. The converse
of this was also decided in Jack v. Kansas, 199 U. S. 372,
namely, that the fact that an immunity granted to a witness
under a state statute would not prevent a prosecutio of such
witness for a violation of a Federal statute, did not invalidate
such statute under the Fourteenth Amendment. It was held
both by this court and by the Supreme Court of Kansas" that

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the possibility that information given by the witness might be
used under the Federal act did not operate as a reason for permitting the witness to refuse to answer, and that a danger so
unsubstantial and remote did not impair the legal immunity.
Indeed, if the argument were a sound one it might be carried
still further and held to apply not only to state prosecutions
within the same jurisdiction, but to prosecutions under the
criminal laws of other States to which the witness might have
subjected himself. The question has been fully considered in
England, and the conclusion reached by the courts of that
country that the only danger to be considered is one arising within the same jurisdiction and under the same sovereignty. Queen v. Boyes, 1 B. & S. 311; King of the Two
Sicilies v. Willcox, 7 State Trials (N. S.), 1049, 1068; State
v. March, 1 Jones (N. Car.), 526; State v. Thomas, 98 N. Car.
599.
The case of United States v. Saline Bank, 1 Pet., 100, is not
in conflict with this. That was a bill for discovery, filed by the
United States against the cashier of the Saline Bank, in the District Court of the Virginia District, who pleaded that the emission of certain unlawful bills took place, within the State of
Virginia, by the law whereof penalties were inflicted for such
emissions. It was held that defendants were not bound to answer and subject themselves to those penalties. It is sufficient
to say that the prosecution was under a state law which iiposed the penalty, and that the Federal court was simply
administering the state law, and no question arose as to a
prosecution under another jurisdiction.
But it is further insisted that while the immunity statute may
protect individual witnesses it would not protect the corporation'of which appellant was the agent and representative. This
is true, but the answer is that it was not designed to do so. The
right of a person under the Fifth Amendment to refuse to incriminate himself is purely a personal privilege of the witness.
It was never intended to permit him to plead the fact that
some third person might be incriminated by his testimony, even

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 V. S.

though he were the agent of such person. A privilege So extensive might be used to put a stop to the examination of every
witness who was called upon to testify before the grand jury
with regard to the doings or business of his principal, whether
such principal were an individual or a corporation. The question whether a corporation is a" person" within the meaning of
this Amendment really does not arise, except perhaps where a
corporation is called upon to answer a bill of discovery, since it
can only be heard by oral evidence in the person of some one
of its agents or employ6s. The Amendment is limited to a person who shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against hiwself, and if he cannot set up the privilege of a third
person, he certainly cannot set up the privilege of a corporation.
As the combination or conspiracies provided against by the
Sherman Anti Trust Act can ordinarily be proved only by the
testimony of parties thereto, in the person of their agents or
employ6s, the privilege claimed would practically nullify the
whole act of Congress. Of what use would it be'for the legislature to declare these combinations unlawful if the judicial
power may close the door of access to every available source of
information upon the subject? Indeed, go strict is the rule that
the privilege is a personal one that it has been held in some
cases that counsel will not be allowed to make the objection.
We hold that the questions should have been answered.
3. The second branch of. the case relates to the non-production by -the witness-of the books and papers called for by the
subpena duces tecum. The witness put his refusal on the
ground, first, that it was impossible for him to collect them
within the time allowed; second, because he was advised by
counsel that under the circumstances he was under no obligation to produce them; and, finally, because they might tend to
incriminate him.
Had the witness relied solely upon the first ground, doubtless
the court would have given him the necessary time. The last
ground we have already held untenable. While the second
ground does not set forth with technical accuracy the real rea-

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

son for declining ,oproduce them, the witness could not be expected to speak with legal exactness, and we think is entitled
to assert that the subpcena was an infringement upon the
Fourth Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that
'.'the

right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,

papers and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures,
shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly
describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things
to be seized."
The construction of this amendment was exhaustively considered in the case of Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616,
which was an information in rem against certain cases of plate
glass, alleged to have been imported in fraud of the revenue acts.
On the trial it became important to show the quantity and value
of the glass contained in a number of cases previously imported;
and the district judge, under section 5 of the act of June 22,
1874, directed a notice to be given to the claimants, requiring
them to produce the invoice of these cases under penalty that
the allegations respecting their contents should be taken as confessed. We held (p. 622) "that a compulsory production of
a man's private papers to establish a criminal charge against
him, or to forfeit his property, is within the scope of the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution, in all cases in which a search
and seizure would be," and that the order in question was an
unreasonable search and seizure within that Amendment.
The history of this provision of the Constitution and its connection with the former practice of general warrants, or writs
of assistance, was given at great length, and the conclusion
reached that the compulsory extortion of a man's own testimony, or of his private papers, to connect him with a crime or
a forfeiture of his goods, is illegal (p. 634), "is compelling him
to be a witness against himself, within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution, and is the equivalent of a
search and seizure-and an unreasonable search and seizurewithin the Fourth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Subsequent cases treat the Fourth and Fifth Amendments as
quite distinct, having different histories, and performing separate functions. Thus in the case of Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, the constitutionality of the
Interstate Commerce Act, so far as it authorized the Circuit
Courts to use their processes in aid of inquiries before the Commission, was sustained, the court observing in that connection:
"Itwas clearly competent for Congress, to that end, to invest
the Commission with authority to require the attendance and
testimony of witnesses, and the production of books, papers,
tariffs, contracts, agreements and documents relating to any
matter legally committed to that body for investigation. We
do not understand that any of these propositions are disputed
in this case."
The case of Adams v. New York, 192 U. S.585, which was a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of New York,
involving the seizure of certain gambling paraphernalia, was
treated as involving the construction of the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments to the Federal Constitution. It was held, in substance, that the fact that papers pertinent to the issue may
have been illegally taken from the possession of the party
against whom they are offered, was not a valid objection to
their admissibility; that the admission, as evidence in a criminal trial of papers found in .the execution of a valid search warrant prior to the indictment, was not an infringement of the
Fifth Amendment, and that by the introduction of such evidence defendant was not compelled to incriminate himself.
The substance of the opinion is contained in the following paragraph. It was contended that "If a search warrant is issued
for stolen property and burglars' tools be discovered and seized,
they are to be excluded from testimony by force of these Amendments. We think they were never intended to have that effect,
but are rather designed to protect against compulsory testimony from a defendant against himself in a criminal trial, and,
to punish wrongful invasion of the home of the citizen or
the unwarranted seizure of his papers and property, and to

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

render invalid legislation or judicial procedure having such
effect."
The Boyd case must also be read in connection with the still
later case of Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S.
25, which arose upon the petition of the Commission for orders
requiring the testimony of witnesses and the production of certain books, papers and documents. The case grew out of a
complaint against certain railway companies that they charged
unreasonable and unjust rates for the transportation of anthracite coal. Objection was made to the productioh of certain
contracts between these companies upon the ground that it
would compel the witnesses to furnish evidence against themselves in violation of the Fifth Amendment, and would also subject the parties to unreasonable searches and seizures. It was
held that the Circuit Court erred in holding the contracts to be
irrelevant, and in refusing to order their production as evidence
by the witnesses who were parties to the appeal. In delivering
the opinion of the court the Boyd case was again considered in
connection with the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, and the
remark made by Mr. Justice Day that the immunity statute of
1893 "protects the witness from such use of the testimony given
as will result in his punishment for crime or the forfeiture of his
estate."
. Having already held that by reason of the immunity act of
1903, the witness could not avail himself of the' Fifth Amendment, it follows that he cannot set up that Amendment as
against the production of the books and papers, since in respect
to these he would also be protected by the immunity act. . We
think it quite clear tlat the search and seizure clause of the
Fourth Amendment was not intended to interfere with the
power of courts to compel, through a subpcena duces tecum, the
production, upon a trial in court, of documentary evidence. As
remarked in Summers v. Moseley, 2 Cr. & M. 477, it would be
"utterly impossible to carry on the administration of justice"
without this writ. The following authorities are conclusive
upon this question: Amey v. Long, 9 East, 473; Bull.v. Love-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

land, 10 Pick. 9; U. S. Express Co. v. Henderson, 69 Iowa, 40;
Greenleaf on Evidence, 469a.
If, whenever an officer or employ6 of a corporation were summoned before. a grand jury as a witness he could refuse to produce the books and documents of such corporation, upon the
ground that they would incriminate the corporation itself, it
would result in the failure of a large number of cases where the
illegal combination was determinable only upon the examination of such papers. Conceding that the witness was an officer
of the corpolration under investigation, and that he was entitled
to assert the rights of the corporation with respect to the production of its books and papers, we are of the opinion that there
is a clear distinction in this particular between an individual
and a corporation, and that the latter has no right to refuse to
submit its books and papers for an examination at the suit of
the State. The individual may stand upon his constitutional
rights as a citizen. He is entitled to carry on his private business inhis own way. His power to contract is unlimited. He
owes no duty to the State or to his neighbors to divulge his
business, or to open his doors to an investigation, so far as it
may tend to criminate him. He owes no such duty to the
State, since .hereceives nothing therefrom, beyond the protection of his life and property. His rights are such as existed by
the law of the land long antecedent to the organization of the
State, and can only be taken from him by due process of law,
and in accordance with the Constitution. Among his rights are
a refusal to incriminate himself, and the immunity of himself
and his property from arrest or seizure except under a warrant
of the law. He owes nothing to the public so lohg as he does
not trespass upon their rights.
.Upon the other hand, the corporation is a creature of the
State. It is presumed to be incorporated for the benefit of the
public. It receives certain special privileges and franchises,
and holds them subject to the laws of the State and the. limitations of its charter. Its powers are limited by law. It can
make no contract not authorized by its charter. Its rights to

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act as a corporation are only preserved to it so long as it obeys
the laws of its creation. There is a reserved right in-the legislature to investigate its contracts and find out whether it has
exceeded its powers. It would be a strange aliomaly to hold
that a State, having chartered a corporation, to make use of
certain franchises, could not in the exercise of its sovereignty
inquire how these franchises had been employed, and whether
they had been abused, and demand the production of the corporate books and papers for that purpose. The defense
amounts to this: That an officer of a corporation, which is
charged with a criminal violation of the statute, may plead the
criminality of such corporation as a refusal to produce its books.
To state this proposition is to answer it. While an individual
may lawfully refuse to answer incriminating questions unless
protected by an immunity statute, it does not follow that a
corporation, vested with special privileges and franchises, may
refuse to show its hand when charged with an abuse of such
privileges.
It is true that the corporation in this case was chartered under the laws of New Jersey, and that it receives its franchise
from the legislature of that State; but such franchises, so far
as they involve questions of interstate commerce, must also be
exercised in subordination to the power of Congress to regulate
such commerce, and in respect to this the General Government
may also assert a sovereign authority to ascertain whether such
franchises have been exercised in a lawful manner, with a due
regard to its own laws. Being subject to this dual sovereignty,
the General Government possesses the same right to see that
its own laws are cespected as the State would have with respect
to the special franchises vested in it by the laws of the State.
The powers of the General Government in this particular in the
vindication of its own laws, are the same as if the corporation
had been created by an act of Congress. It is not intended to
intimate, however, that it has a general visitatorial power over
state corporations.
4. Although, for the reasons above stated, we are of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

opinion that an officer of a corporation which is charged with a
violation of a statute of the State of its creation, or of an act of
Congress passed in. the exercise of its constitutional powers,
cannot refuse to produce the books and papers of such corporation, we do not wish to be understood as holding that a corporation is not entitled to inrmunity, under the Fourth Amendment,
against unreasonable searches and seizures. A corporation is,
after all, but an association of individuals under an assumed
name and with a distinct legal entity. In organizing itself as
a collective body it waives no constitutional immunities appropriate to such body. Its property cannot be taken without
compensation. It can only be proceeded against by due process of law, and is protected, under the Fourteenth Amendment,
against unlawful discrimination. Gulf &c. Railroad Company
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154, and cases cited. Corporations are
a necessary feature of modern business activity, and their aggregated capital has become the source of nearly all great enterprises.
We are also of opinion that an order for the production of
books and papers may constitute an unreasonable search and
seizure within the Fourth Amendment. While a search ordinarily implies a quest by an officer of the law, and a seizure
contemplates a forcible dispossession of the owner, still, as was
held in the Boyd case, the substance of the offense is the compulsory prodution of private papers, whether under a search
warrant or a subpcena duces tecum, against which the person,
be he individual or corporation, is entitled to protection. Applying the test of reasonableness to the present case, we think
the subpcena duces tecum is far too sweeping in its terms to be
regarded as reasonable. It does not require the production of
a single contract, or of contracts with a particular corporation,
or a limited number of documents, but all understandings, contracts or correspondence bntween the MacAndrews & Forbes
Company, and no less than six different companies, as well as
all reports made, and accounts rendered by such companies from
the date of the organization of the MacAndrews & Forbes Com-

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

HARLANj

J., concurring.

pany, as well as all letters received by that company since its
organization from more than a dozen different companies, situated in seven different States in the Union.
If the writ had required the production of all the books, papers and documents found in the office of the MacAndrews &
Forbes Company, it would scarcely be more universal in its
operation, or more completely put a stop to the business of that
company. Indeed, it is difficult to say how its business could
be carried on after it had been denuded of this mass of material,
which is not shown to be necessary in the prosecution of this
case, and is clearly in violation of the general principle of law
with regard to the particularity required in the description of
documents necessary to a search warrant or subpoena. Doubtless many, if not all, of these documents may ultimately be required, but some necessity should be shown, either from an
examination of the witnesses orally, or from the known transactions of these companies with the other companies implicated,
or some evidence of their materiality produced, to justify an
order for the production of such a mass of papers. A general
subpoena of this description is equally indefensible as a -search
warrant would be if couched in similar terms. Ex parte Brown,
72 Missouri, 83; Shaftsbury v. Arrowsmith, 4 Ves. 66; Lee v.
Angas, L. R. 2 Eq. 59.
. Of course, in view of the power of Congress over interstate
commerce to which we have adverted, we do not wish to be understood as holding that an examination of the books of a corporation, if duly authorized by act of Congress, would constitute an unreasonable search and seizure within the Fourth
Amendment.
But this objection to the subpoena does not go to the validity
of the order remanding the petitioner, which is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

concurring.

I concur entirely in what is said in the opinion of the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
HARLAN,

-

J., concurring.

201 U. S.

in reference to the powers and functions of the grand jury and
as to the scope of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. I
concur also in the' affirmance of the judgment, but must withhold my assent to some of the views expressed in the opinion.
It seems to me that the witness was not entitled to assert, as
a reason for not obeying the order of the court, that the subpcena
duces tecum was an infringement of the Fourth Amendment,
which declares that "the right of the People to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures, -shall not be violated, and no warrants
shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched,
and the persons or things to be seized." It may be, I am inclined to think as a matter of procedure and practice, that the
subpona duces tecum was too broad and indefinite. But the
action of the court in that regard was, at the utmost, only error,
and that error did not affect its jurisdiction to make the order,
nor authorize the witness-whose personal rights, let it be observed; were in no wise involved .in the pending inquiry-to refuse compliance with the subpoena, upon the ground that it
involved an unreasonable search and seizure of the books, papers and records of the corporation whose conduct, so far as it
related to the Sherman Anti Trust Act, was the subject of examination. It was not his privilege to stand between the corporation and the Government in the investigation before the
grand jury. In my opinion, a corporation--" an artificial being, invisible, intangible and existing only in contemplation of
law "-cannot claim the immunity given by the Fourth Amendment; for, it is not a part of the "People," within the meaning
of that Amendment. Nor is it embraced by the word "persons" in the Amendment. If .acontrary view obtains, the
-power of the Government by its representatives to'look into the
books, records and papers of a corporation.of its own creation,
to ascertain whether that corporation has obeyed or is defying
the law, will be greatly curtailed, if not destroyed. If a corporation, when its affairs are under examination by a grand jury

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

McKENNA, J., concurring.

proceeding in its work under the orders of the court, can plead
the immunity given by the Fourth Amendment against unreasonable searches and seizures, may it not equally rely upon that
Amendment to protect it even against a statute authorizing or
directing the examination by the agents of the Government
creating it, of its papers, documents and records, unless they
specify the particular papers, documents and records to be examined? If the order of the court below is to be deemed invalid
as an unreasonable search and seizure of the papers, books and
records of the corporation, could it be deemed valid if made
under the express authority of an act of Congress? Congress
could not, any more than a court, authorize an unreasonable
seizure or search in violation of the Fourth Amendment. In
my judgment when a grand jury seeking, in the discharge of its
public duties, to ascertain whether- a corporation has violated
the law in any particular, requires the production of the books,
papers and records of such corporation, no officer of that corporation can rightfully refuse, when ordered to do so by the
court, to produce such books, papers and records in his official
custody, upon the ground simply that the order was, as to the
corporation, an unreasonable search and seizure within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENN-A,

also concurring.

I concur in the judgment but not in all the propositions declared by the court. I think the subpcena is sufficiently definite. The charge pending was a violation of the Anti Trust Act
of 1890. The documents and papers sought were the understandings and agreements of the accused companies. That the
documents commanded were many or evidenced transactions
occurring through a period of time are not circumstances fatal
to the validity of the subpcena. If there was a violation of the
Anti Trust Act, that is, combinations in restraint of trade, it
would be probably evidenced by formal ageements, but it
might also be evidenced or its transactions alluded to in tele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
McKENNA, J.,

concurring.

201 U. S.

grams and letters sent during the time the combination operated. Each telegram, each letter, would contribute proof, and
therefore material testimony. Why then should they not be
produced? What answer is given? It is said the subpena is
tantamount to requiring all the books, papers and documentsfound in the office of the MacAndrews & Forbes Company, and
an embarrassment is conjectured as a result to its business.
These, then, I assume, are the detrimental consequences that
will be produced by obedience to the subpoena. If such consequences could be granted they are not fatal to the subpoena.
But they may be denied. There can be at most but a temporary use of the books, and this can be accommodated to the
convenience of parties. It is matter for the court , and we cannot assume that the court will fail of consideration for the interest of parties or subject them to more inconvenience than the
demands of justice may require.
J1 cannot think that the consequences mentioned are important- or necessary to the argument. A more serious matter is
the application of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States.
It is said "a search implies a quest by an officer of .the law; a
seizure contemplates a forcible dispossession of the owner."
Nothing can be more direct and plain; nothing more expressive*
to distinguish a subpcena from a search Warrant. Can a subpcena lose this essential distinction from a search warrant by
the generality or speciality of its terms? I think iiot.- The
dAstinction is based upon what is authorized or directed to be
done-not upon the form of words by which the authority or
command is given. "The quest of an officer" acts upon the
things themselves-may be secret, intrusive, accompanied by
force. The service of a subpoena is but the delivery of a paper
to a party-is open and aboveboard. There is no element of
trespass or force in.
it. It does not disturb the possession of
property* It cannot be finally enforced except after challenge,
and a judgment of the court upon the challenge. This is a safeguard against abuse the same as it is of other. processes of the

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., concurring.

law, and it is all that can be allowed without serious embarrassment to the administration of justice. Of course, it constrains
the will of parties, subjects their property to the uses of
proof. But we are surely not prepared to say that such uses
are unreasonable or are sacrifices which the law may not demand.
However, I may apprehend consequences that the opinion
does not intend. It seems to be admitted that many, if not all,
of the documents may ultimately be required, but it is said
"some necessity should be shown, either from an examination
of the witnesses orally, or from the known transactions of these
companies with the other companies implicated, or some evi-dence of their materiality produced, to justify an order for their
production." This intimates a different objection to the order
of the court than the generality of the subpoena, and, if good
at all, would be good even though few instead of many documents had been required or described ever so specifically. I
am constrained to dissent from it. The materiality of his testimony is not open to a witness to determine, and the order of
proof is for the court. Besides, if a.grand jury may investigate
without specific charge, may investigate, upon the suggestion of
one of its members, must it demonstrate the materiality of every
piece of testimony it calls for before it can require the testimony? - So limit the power of a grand jury and you may make
it impotent in cases where it needs power most and in which
its function can best be exercised.
But what does the record show? It shows that Hale refused
to give the testimony that, this court says, should have preceded the order under review. He refused to answer what the
business of the MacAndrew & Forbes Company was or where
its office was, or whether there was an agreement with the company and the American Tobacco Company in regard to the
products of their respective businesses or whether the company
he represented sold its products throughout the. United States.
The ground of' refusal was that there was no legal warrant or
authority for his examination, not that the documents or tesVol,. CCI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
MCKENNA,

J., concurring.

201 U. S.

timony was not material or not shown to be material. Besides,
after objection made to the laying of a foundation, qomplaint
cannot be made that nofoundation was laid. And it seems to
be an afterthought in the proceedings on habeas corpus that the
ground objection to examination did not exclusively refer to
the want of power in the grand jury.
By virtue ,of its dominion over interstate commerce Congress
has power, the opinion of the court asserts, over corporations.
engaged in that commerce. And the power is the same as if
the corporations had been created by Congress. And yet it is
said to be a power subject to the limitation of the Fourth
Amendment. To this I am not prepared to assent. I have
already pointed out the essential distinction between a subpena
duces tecum and a search warrant, and, it may be, the case at
bar demands from me no expression of opinion of the Fourth
Amendment. And I am mindful, too, of the reservation in the
opinion of the court of the power of Congress to require by
direct legislation the fullest disclosures of their affairs from corporations engaged in interstate commerce. While recognizing
this may be true, and, that until such power is exercised, there
may be reasons for holding that corporations are entitled to the
protection of the Fourth Amendment, there are reasons against
the contention, and I wish to guard against any action which
would preclude against their consideration in cases where the
Fourth Amendment may be a more determining factor than it
is in the case at bar. There are certainly strong reasons for the
contention that if corporations cannot plead the immunity of
the Fifth Amendment, they cannot plead the immunity of the
Fourth Amendment. The protection of both Amendments, it
can be contended, is against the compulsory production of evidence to be used in criminal trials. Such warrants are used in
aid of public prosecutions (Cooley Constitutional Lim. 6th ed.
364), and in Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, a relation between the Fourth Amendment and the Fifth Amendment was
declared. It was said the Amendments throw great light on
each otheri "for the 'unreasonable searches and seizures' con-

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

BREWER,

J., and the

CHIEF JUSTICE,

-dissenting.

demned in the Fourth Amendment are almost always made for
the purpose of compelling a man to give evidence against himself, which in criminal cases, is condemned in the Fifth Amendment; and compelling a man 'in a criminal case to be a witness
against himself,' which is condemned in the Fifth Amendment,
throws light on the question as to what is an 'unreasonable
search and seizure' within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment. And we have been unable to perceive that the seizure
of a man's private books and papers to be used in evidence
against him is substantially different from compelling him to
be a witness against himself." Boyd v. United States is still
recognized, and if its reasoning remains unimpaired, and the
purpose and effect of the Fourth Amendment receives illumination from the Fifth, or, to express the idea differcntly, if the
Amendments are the complements of each other, directed against
the different ways by which a man's immunity from giving evidence against himself may be violated, it would seem a strong,
if not an inevitable conclusion, that if corporations have not
such immunity they can no more claim the protection of the
Fourth Amendment than they can.of the Fifth.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

with whom the

CHIEF

JUSTIcE con-

curred, dissenting.
With what is said in the opinion of the court of the necessity
of a "charge, " with the proposition that the immunity granted
by the Federal statute is sufficient protection against both the
Nation and the several States, with the hblding that the protection accorded by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution is
personal to the individual and does not extend to an agent of
an individual or justify such agent in refusing to give testimony
-incriminating his principal, and also that the subp~na duces
tecum cannot be sustained, I fully agree.
Further, I desire to einplh'size certain truths which in this
and other cases decided to-day seem to be ignored or depreciated. The immunities and protection of articles 4, 5 and 14

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER, J., and the CHIEF JusTiwE, dissenting.

201 U. S.

of the Amendments to the Federal Constitution are available to
a corporation so far as in the nature of things they are applicable. Its property may not be taken for public use without
just compensation. It cannot be subjected to unreasonable
searches and seizures. It cannot be deprived of life or property
without due process of law.
It may be well to compare the words of description in articles
4 and 5 with those in article 14:
"Article 4. The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue,
but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons
or things to be seized."
"Article 5. No person

.

.

.

shall be compelled in any

criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor to be deprived
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall
private property be taken for public use, without just compensa tion."
"Article 14.
.
Nor shall any State deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor
deny to any person Within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws."
In Santa ClaraCounty v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 118 U. S.
394, 396, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said:
"The court does not wish-to hear argument on the question
whether the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution, which forbids a State to deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, applies to thesecorporations. We are all of opinion that it does."
See also PembinaMining Company v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S.
181; Missouri Pacific Railway Company v. Mackey, 127 U. S.
205; Minneapolis. & St. Louis Railway Company v. Beckwith,
129 U. S.26; Charlotte &c. Railroad v. Gibbes, 142 U. S.386;
Monongahela Navigation Company v. United States, 148 U. S.
312; Gull, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S,150, 154,

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

BREWER,

J., and theC iEF

JUSTICE, dissenting.

and cases cited; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
These decisions were under the Fourteenth Amendment, but
if the word" person" in that Amendment includes corporations,
it also includes corporations when used in the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments.
By the Fourth Amendment the " people" are guaranteed protection against unreasonable searches and seizures. "Citizens"
is a descriptive word; no broader, to say the least, than "people."
As repeatedly held, a corporation is a citizen of a State for
purposes of jurisdiction of Federal courts, and,- as a citizen, it
may locate mining claims under the laws of the United States,
McKinley v. Wheeler, 130 U. S.630, and is entitled to the benefit of the Indian Depredation Acts. United States v. Northwestern Express Company, 164 U. S.686. Indeed, it is essentially but an association of individuals, to which is given certain
rights and privileges, and in which is vested the legal title. The
beneficial ownership is in the individuals, the corporation being
simply an instrumentality by which the powers granted to
these associated individuals may be exercised. As said by
Chief Justice Marshall in ProvidenceBank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514,
562: "The great object of an incorporation is to bestow the
character and properties of individuality on a collective and
changing body of men."
United States v. Amedy, 11 Wheat. 392, was the case of an
indictment under an act of Congress for destroying a vessel with
intent to prejudice the underwriters. The act of Congress declared that "if any person shall . . . willfully and corruptly cast away . .
any ship or vessel . . . with
intent or design to prejudice any person or persons that hath
underwritten, or shall underwrite, any policy," etc. The indictment charged an intent to defraud an incorporated insurance company, and the court held that a corporation is a person
within the meaning of the act, saying (p. 412):
"The mischief intended to be reached by the statute is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER,

J., and the

CHIEF JusTICE,

dissenting.

201 U. S.

same, whether it respects private or corporate persons. That
corporations are, in law, for civil purposes, deemed persons, is
unquestionable. And the citation from 2 Inst. 736, establishes
that they are so deemed within the purview of penal statutes.
Lord Coke, there, in commenting on the statute of 31 Eliz. c. 7,
respecting the erection of cottages, where the word used is, 'no
person shall,' etc., says, 'this extends as well to persons politic
and incorporate, as to natural persons whatsoever.' "
Neither does the fact that a corporation is engaged in interstate commerce in any manner abridge the protection and applicable immunities accorded by the Amendments. The corporation of which the petitioner was an officer was chartered by
a State, and over it the General Government has no more control than over an individual citizen of that State. Its power
to regulate commerce does not carry with it a right to dispense
with the Fourth and.Fifth Amendments, to unreasonably search
or seize the papers of an individual or corporation engaged in
such commekce, or deprive him or it of any immunity or protection secured by either Amendment.
It is true that there is a power of supervision and inspection
of the inside workings of a corporation, but that belongs to the
creator of the corporation. If a State has chartered it, the
power is lodged in the State. If the Nation, then in the Nation,
and it cannot be exercised by any other authority. It is in the
nature of the power of visitation.
In Angell & Ames on Corporations, 9th ed. c. 19, §§ 684, 685,
the authors say:
"To render the charters or constitutions, ordinances and bylaws of corporations of perfect obligation, and generally to
maintain their peace and good government, these bodies are
.subject to visitation; or, in other words, to the inspection and
control of tribunals recognized by the laws of the land. Civil
corporations are visited by the Government itself, through the
medium of the courts of justice; but the internal affairs of
ecclesiastical and eleemosynary corporations are, in general,
inspected and controlled by a private visitor.

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 U. S.

BREWER, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

"In this country, where there is no individual founder or
donor, the legislature are the visitors of all corporations founded
by them for public purposes, and may direct judicial proceedings against them for abuse or neglects which at common law
would cause a forfeiture of their charters."
The matter is discussed in Blackstone's Commentaries, in
.par. 3, chap. 18, Book I, and he says:
"I proceed, therefore, next to inquire how these corporations
may be visited. For corporations, being composed of individuals, subject to human frailties, are liable, as well as private
persons, to deviate from the end of their institution. And for
that reason the. law has provided proper persons to visit, inquire into, and correct all irregularities that arise in such corporations, either sole or aggregate, and whether ecclesiastical,
civil or eleemosynary."
And in respect to civil corporations he adds, same paragraph
and chapter (*782):
"The law having by immemorial usage appointed them to
be visited and inspected by the King, their founder, in His
Majesty's Court of King's Bench, according to the rules of the
common law, they ought not to be visited elsewhere,-or by any
.other authority."
In 2 Kent, *300, the author says: "The visitation of civil corporations is by the Government itself, through the medium of
the courts of justice."
In Amherst Academy v. Cowls, 6 Pick. 427, 433, it was held
that:
"Without doubt the legislature are the visitors of all corporations founded by them for public purposes, wlhere there is no
individual founder or donor, and may direct judicial process
against them for abuses or neglects which by common law would
cause a forfeiture of their charters."
The right of visitation is for the purpose of control and to see
that the corporation keeps within the limits of its poivers. It
would be strange if a corporation doing business in a dozen
States was subject to the visitation of each of those.States, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Bzwm, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

201 U. S.

compelled to regulate its actions according to the judgmentsperhaps the conflicting judgments-of the several legislatures.
The fact that a state corporation may engage in business which
is within the general regulating power of the National Government does not give to Congress any right of visitation or any
power to dispense with the immunities and protection of the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments. The National Government
has jurisdiction over crimes committed within its special territorial limits. Can it dispense in such cases with these immunities and protections? No more can it do so in respect to the
acts and conduct of individuals coming within its regulating
power. It has the same control over commerce with foreign
nations as over that between the States: Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616, arose under the Revenue Acts, and the. applicability of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments was sustained. In
that case is an elaborate opinion by Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, in which the origin of the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments is discussed, their relationship to each other
shown, and the necessity of a constant adherence to the underlying thought of protection expressed in them strenuously insisted upon. I quote his words (p. 635):
"It may be that it (the proceeding in question) is the obnoxious thing in its mildest and least repulsive form; but illegitimate. and unconstitutional practices get their first footing
in that way, namely, by silent appioaches and slight deviations
from legal modes of procedure. This can only be obviated by
adhering to the rule that constitutional provisions for the security of person and property should be liberally construed.
A close and literal construction deprives them of half their efficacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the right, as if it
consisted more in sound than in substance. It is the duty of
courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen,
and against any stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto
should be obsta principiis."
Finally, as the subpoena duces tecum was the initiatory step
in the proceedings before the grand jury against this petitioner,

HALE v. HENKEL.
201 V. S.

BREWER, J., and the CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

as that is the major fact in those proceedings, and as it is agreed
that it is not sustainable, it seems to me that the order adjudicating him in contempt should be set aside, and this notwithstanding that subsequently he improperly refused to answer
certain questions.
The case is not parallel to that of an indictment in two counts
upon which a general judgment is entered, and one of which
counts is held good and the other bad, for a writ of habeas corpus
is not a writ of error, and the order to be entered thereon is for
a discharge or a remand to custody. If a discharge is ordered
no punishment can' be inflicted under the judgment as rendered,
and if a new prosecution is instituted containing the good count
a plea of former conviction will be a full defense. But in the
case at bar an order for a discharge will have no such result.
The habeas corpus statute, Rev. Stat., § 761, provides that "the
court, or justice, or judge shall proceed in a summary way . . .
to dispose of the party as law and justice require." Justice
requires that he should not be subjected to the costs of this
habeas corpus proceeding, or be punished for contempt when he
was fully justified in disregarding the principal demand made
upon him.
The order of the Circuit Court should be reversed and the case
remanded with instructions to discharge the petitioner, leaving
to the grand jury the right to initiate new proceedings not subject to the objections to this.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in
these views.

