SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

is levied on the enumerated article which it most resembles
in any of the particulars before mentioned;

.

"

The imported merchandise are undoubtedly manufactured
articles and do not miss by a great deal being identical with
"carbons for electric lighting" in the most restricted sense of
that description. They have, therefore, similarity in all the
particulars mentioned in section 7 to such carbons.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
Circuit Court are reversed and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to sustain the decision of the
Board'of General Appraisers.

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS COMPANY.
ERROR, TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MAINE.
No. 206.

Argued March 9.12. 13, 1906.-Decided April 2,1906.

The distinction between trespass and disseisin may be modified by statute.
as properly as it may be established by -common law. Nothing in the
Fourteenth Amendment hinders a State from enacting that in future
the doing of such overt acts of ownership as are possible on wild lands,
under a recorded deed showing that the actor claims title coupled with
,the payment of taxes, the owner not paying any meanwhile or doing any
act indicative of ownership, shall constitute a disseisin which if continued
long enough shall bar an action for the land; nor is such an act unconstitutional because it fixes the period at twenty years and allows it to
become operative as to suits commenced five years after its enactment
as it would be within the power of the legislature to fix the entire period
of limitation at five years, and the owner would have an opportunity
to defeat the disseisin by asserting ownership within that time; such a
statute would not be construed' as permitting suit to be barred by a
period of twenty years' inactivity prior to the enactment of the statute.
if acts of ownership were exercised thereafter.
Ifa state statute, as construed by the state court, is constitutional, this court
follows that construction.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

201 U. S.

Mr. William Frye White, with whom Mr. Taber D. Bailey
and Mr. John B. Cotton were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Chapter 162 of the Public Laws of Maine, 1895, was a limitation law and the state court in its construction of it deprived
petitioner of property without due process of law.
The title of this act is "An act to make state tax sales more.
effectual," yet it is brought into this case, as a perfect defense,
where state tax sales are not mentioned or referred to. There
can be-no constitutional objection to a limitation law, pure
and simple, because it affects the remedy. When remedies are
tampered with to the detriment of existing substantial rights,
the remedial character of such statutes alone would not suffice
to render them unobnoxious to the objection successfully
urged against other retroactive laws. Wade on Retroactive,
Laws, § 224.
Calling a statute a limitation law does not make it so unless
that is its effect. A court can construea statute most obnoxious to constitutional guaranties as a limitation law, but if
its effect is to impair and destroy vested rights, such construction should not stand.
A state statute which -obliges a person in the constructive
possession of land, which from its nature and character
is capable of no other possession, to bring suit to recover
the land, therefore compelling a resort to legal proceedings by one who is in the complete enjoyment of all he
claims deprives him of property without due process of
law.
The word "wild" used in the statute precludes the idea
of any actual occupation. There is no actual possession because as soon as a settler or inhabitant has reduced it to possession, it ceases to be wild, and this statute does not apply. The
court below found that tlis statute did apply and therefore
settled the fact that this was wild land.'
Where there is no actual possession, constructive possession
follows the legal title. Where one has the legal estate in fee
of lands, he has the constructive possession unless 'there is an

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

actual possession in someone else. 28 Am. & Eng. Ency. of
Law, 239.,
The plaintiff had the legal title on the date of the enactment
of this act, and it being wild land there could be no adverse
possession sufficient to divest him of his title.
Cuttings and partial clearings under claim of ownership
during twenty or more years, incident to casual lumber operations, are ineffectual to establish any title by disseizin of the
true owner; especially when such owners stood in the relation
of cotenants with the persons in possession. Fleming v. Paper
Co., 93 Maine, 110; Millet v. Mullen, 95 Maine, 421; Slater v.
Jephson, 6 Cush. 1'29; Cook v. Babcock; 11 Cush. 129. The
payment of taxes on land is not an act of possession, especially
of wild land, Hudson v. Coe, 79 Maine, 83.
The payment of taxes by the actual occupant of land is
evidence of the adverse character of the occupancy, but is
not evidence that the taxpayer is in fact occupying the land.
Millet v. Mullen, 95 Maine, 401; Little v. Megquier, 2 Maine,'
176.
The registry of a deed of land executed and acknowledged
by a grantor who had no right to the granted pi'emises is'not
constructive- notice to the true owner that such' conveyance
had been made. The registry of a deed is constructive notice
only to future purchasers under the same grantors. Bates v.
Norcross, 14 Pick. 224. The mere entry by the grantee under
a recorded deed without an open, exclusive occupation manifested by fencing or otherwise, does not amount to a disseizin
against the will of the true Qwner. Bates v. Norcross, supra.
This statute seeks first to make acts of trespass acts of
disseizin, and theI it seeks to compel the owner of the land
because he has suffered these trespasses to be committed,'
which could not under'the then existing laws affect the title
to his land, bring suit to recover his land. In express terms'
it cuts off the owner of wild lands from the use and enjoyment
of his property and only leaves him a right to brin* suit to
recover what he already owns. Where before he was seized

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff -n Error.

201 U. S.

of his land and had a right of entry in it, by a mere act of the
legislature he is disseized for he must become disseized to
bring a real action to recover his land. Stearns on Real Actions, 215, 216.
All the incidents and rights of the ownership of wild lands
are transferred by legislative authority alone, from one private
person to another, and that without compensation, and the
owner is forced out of the constructive possession and enjoyment of his property, and made to enter upon expensive litigation to regain it. No acts of ownership however strong during the. five years of grace will save him, but he must bring
suit or lose his land.
One who is himself in the legal enjoyment of his property
cannot have his rights therein forfeited to another, for failure
to bring suit against that other within a time specified, to test
the validity of a claim which the latter asserts, but takes no
steps to legally enforce. Grossbeck v. Seeley, 13 Michigan, 329;
Cooley, Const. Lim., 6th ed., 449; Baker v. Kelley, 11 Minnesota, 358; Elbridge v. Kuehl, 27 Iowa, 160, 173; Monk v. Carbin, 58 Iowa, 503; Wahn v. Shearman, 8 Serg. & R. 357; Farrar
v. Clark, 85 Indiana, 449.
Hill v. Kricke, 11 Wisconsin, 442; Le/jingwell v. Warren, 2
Black, 599, distinguished as relating to a wholly prospective
statute, while under this statute the owner in constructive possession is compelled to bring suit to retain his land, and also
prior to the Fourteenth Amendment the court followed the
Wisconsin rule.
A state statute which changes the law of disseizin in respect to titles existing when it was passed and on account
of such retroactive legislation, creates new obligations and
imposes new duties, by converting an estate in possession into
a mere right of action and deprives the owner of property
without due process of law.
Every statute which takes away or impairs vested rights
acquired under existing laws, or creates a new obligation, imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability in respect to

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

transactions or considerations already past must be deemed
retrospective. Society &c. v. Wheeler, 2 Gall. 105; Proprietors
&c. v. Laboree, 2 Greenl. 286; Coffin v. Rich, 45 Maine, 515;
Sturges v. Carter, 114 U. S. 512.
In the earlier cases where such retroactive laws were attacked for their supposed conflict with the National Constitution, the Supreme Court of the United States refused to pass
adversely to the validity of such as had been sustained by the
courts of last resort in the States where they were enacted.
This was before the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Satterlee v. Mathewson, 2 Pet. 380, 413; Watson v. Mercer, 8
Pet. 88. Since the passage of that Amendment, the taking
of property from one by means of a statute retroacting upon
rights previously acquired, is not by due process of law, or the
law of the land. Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164
U. S.404; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.97.
The constitution of the State has secured to every citizen
the right of "acquiring, possessing and enjoying property,"
and property cannot by a mere act of the legislature be taken
from one man and vested in another directly, nor can it by
the retrospective operation of law, be indirectly transferred
from one to another, or be subjected to the government of
principles in a court of justice, which must necessarily produce
that effect. Webster v. Cooper 14 How. 488, commenting
on the Laboree case, supra. See also Lewis et al. v. Webb, 3
Greenl. 335; .Given v. Marr, 27 Maine, 220; Austin v. Stevens,
24 Maine, 520; Coffin v. Rich, 45 Maine, 515; Atkinson
v. Dunlap, 50 Maine, 117- Adams v. Palmer, 51 Maine,
493. And see Thistle v. Frostburg Coal Co., 10 Maryland,
147.
Where, before the true owner was obliged to incur no expense to retain his property, this statute creates a personal
liability to put out money which'he may never recover back,
and compels him to run the risk of losing his land by a lawsuit. There has been a confiscation of that money required
to be paid out, which he does not recover back, without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

201 U. S.

hearing whatever.' Dunn.v. Snell, 74 Maine, 27; ,Bennett v.
Davis, 90 Maine, 102.
Mr. Orville Dewey Baker, with whom Mr. Amos K. Butler
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The statute of 1895 has received a judicial construction
from the-court of last resort in Maine. As construed it is not
in conflict with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
A construction so given to a statute by the highest court
of a State must be accepted by this court in judging whether
the statute conforms to the Constitution of the United States.
Railway Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 414; Railway v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 418, 456; Railway v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142, 152;
Tullis v. Railway, 175 U. S. 353.
The Supreme Court of Maine having construed the -statute
as one of limitations and as having only a prospective operation, it is not repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. A statute will not be held invalid on
the objection of a party whose interests are not affected by
it in the manner which the Constitution forbids. Cooley,
Const. Lim., 180, 181.
But plaintiff is still further limited. He must show that
therewas manifest error in the state court in some one of the
very respects specially set up by him in the specifications of
error. The plaintiff must also show that the errors relied on
appear in the record of the state court, and not merely and
solely in the final opinion of that court.
The errors assigned do not appear "in the record" of the
state court and the constitutionality of the state law was not
properly raised or pleaded, or in any way drawn in question
by the plaintiff in the state court. Murdock v. Memphis, 20
Wall. 634; Moore v. Mississippi, 21 Wall. 639;"Railroad v.
Efewes, 183 U. S. 68; Powell,v. Brunswick Co., 150 U. S. 439;
Railroad v. Louisville, 166 U. S. 715.
The plaintiff asks this court to reverse the construction put

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon a Maine statute by the Maine court and reopen and re-.
verse what is res adjudicata. This the court will 'not dd.
Railway v. Minnesota, 134 .U. S. 418, 456; Railway v. Illinois,
163 U. S. 142, 152; Railway. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580,
586.
The statute of 1821 under review in the Laboree case was
'by its express terms retroactive and was held invalid on that
g round.
The principle upon which the act of 1895 is based is not
novel. It has been repeatedly passed- upon in other States
under similar. statutes. See Newland v. Marsh, 19 Illinois,
376, 380; Stearns v. Gittings, 23 Illinois, 387; Lawrence v.
Kfnney, 32 Wisconsin, 293; Knox v. Cleveland, 13 Wisconsin,
274; Hill v. Kricke, 11 Wisconsin, 442, approved in Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Waler v. Sherman,, 8 S. & R.
357; Eldridge v. Kenkl, 27 Iowa, 175; Farrah v. Clark, 85
Indiana, 453.

MR. JUSTICE HOLmES delivered' the opinion of the court.
This is an action of trover for logs, brought by the plaintiff
in error in the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine. The defendant admitted carrying off the logs, but set up title.to the land
on which they were cut, one-half in itself and one-half in its
licensors. At the trial the plaintiff proved a prima facie title
to an undivided interest in the land. The defendant relied
upon the Maine Public Laws. of 1895, c. 162, § 1. With regard to that, the Chief Justice, presiding, instructed the jury
that if the defendant and its'licensors, respectively, had.satisfled the conditions of § 1, it was entitled to a verdict. A
verdict was found for. the defendant on that. ground. The
ruling was taken to the full court on exceptions and a motion
for a new trial. At the argument there it was.urged that the
statute, if applicable. to ithe plaintiff, was contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment and void.. But the court,. adverting
to the question, decided the contrary, and the defendant had

OCTOBER TELRM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

judgment. 98 Maine, 268. The case then was brought to
this court.
The material sections of the act of 1895 are as follows:
"SEc. 1. When the State has taxed wild land, and the
state treasurer has deeded it, or part of it, for non-payment
of tax, by deed purporting to convey the interest of the State
by forfeiture for such non-payment and his records show
that the grantee, his heirs or assigns, has paid the State and
county taxes thereon, or on his acres or interest therein, as
stated in the deed; continuously for the twenty years subsequent to such deed; and when a person claims under a recorded deed describing wild lands taxed by the State, and the
state treasurer's record shows that he has, by himself or by
his predecessors under such deed, paid the state and county
taxes thereon, or on his acres or interest therein as stated in
the deed, continuously for twenty years subsequent to recording such deed; and whenever, in either case, it appears
that the person claiming under such a deed, and those under
whom he claims, have, during such period, held such exclusive, peaceable, continuous and adverse possession thereof as
comports with the ordinary management 'of wild lands in
Maine, and it further appears that during such period, no
former owner, or person claiming under him, has paid any
such tax, or any assessment by the county commissioners, or
done any other act indicative of ownership, no action shall
be maintained by a former owner, or those claiming under
him, to 'recover such land, or to avoid such deed, unless commenced within said twenty years, or before January one,
nineteen hundred. Such payment shall give such grantee or
person claiming as aforesaid, his heirs or assigns, a right of
etry and seizin in the. whole, or such part, in common and
undivided, of the whole tract as the deed states, or as the
number of acres in the deed is to the number of acres assessed.
"SEc. 4 This act shall not apply to actions between cotenants, nor to actions now pending in court, nor to those
commenced before January one, nineteen hundred."

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant and its licensors claimed under the second
branch -of the statute. They held under recorded warranty
deeds describing wild lands taxed by the State, running back
for more than twenty years, and, although it must be taken
that the first deed of the series was executed by owners of a
part interest only, that deed naturally was held by the state
courts to be a repudiation of the tenancy in common and to
lay a foundation for the working of the act. With that question we have nothing to do. The state treasurer's record
showed that. the defendant, its licensors and those under whom
they claim, had paid the taxes thereon continuously down
to the bringing of this suit. The same persons had held such
exclusive, peaceable, continuous and adverse possession of the
land as comports with the ordinary management of wild lands
in Maine, and during the same period no former owner had paid
any tax or done any other act indicative of ownership. These
facts are .admitted or must be assumed to be established by
the verdict. This action was brought in 1902 for acts done
from 1900 to 1902, -after the time allowed by § 4 had run.
The question is whether the statute is constitutional as applied to. such a case.'
Before considering the construction of the statute we will
deal with an objection which seems to be made to it, even if.
solely prospective as we subsequently shall explain. Suppose
that the law gives no effect whatever to acts done before its
passage, still it is suggested that when it went into operation
the plaintiff but for its provision would have been in constructive possession, and the statute purported at once to
disseize. him and to put him to an action to recover. the land.
But so far as the statute is prospective it merely enacts, subject to the qualification in § 4, of which we shall speak in a
moment, that certain acts, if done in the future, shall constitute
a disseizin, and that the disseizin if continued for the due time
shall ripen into title. The distinction between trespass and
disseizin may be modified by statute as properly as it may
be established by common law. Also statutes of limitation

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

may be passed where formerly there were none. So far as
the Foqrteenth Amendment is concerned there is nothing to
hinder a State from enacting that in future the doing of such
overt acts of ownership as are possible on wild land, under a
recorded deed which shows that the actor claims title, coupled
with payment of the taxes, the owner meantime not paying
them, and doing no act indicative of ownership, shall constitute a disseizin, or that such disseizin if continued long enough
shall bar an action for the, land. We think it unnecessary to
cite the state decisions on similar statutes or to argue that
proposition at greater length. See Le/fingwell v. Warren, 2
Black,. 599.
The main argument for the plaintiff is that if, as was the
fact, the defendant had maintained the statutory occupation
for the twenty years before the passage of the. act the statute
purported retrospectively to give it the title, or,. if the statute
did not go to that length, that at least it counted the fifteen
years. preceding the enactment with the five following '.it to
January 1, 1900, in order to make up the twenty years required
by . 1, in any suit broughtafter that date. The former, more
extreme suggestion, is answered by § 4. By the words of that
section the statute: did not apply to actions brought before
January 1, 1900. Therefore, if but for the statute, the plaintiff would have had a constructive seizin and might have.
declared in' trespass, .he still had it during five years, and might
have declared in the same way.
The only matter requiring analysis is the question of the
former owner's position after January 1, 1900, when the act.
applied. The action then required to be brought by the former.
owner is an action "to recover such land, or. 'to avoid, such
deed." An action to recover the land presupposes, that the
former owner still is out by a continuance, up to the time when
the suit, is brought, of the acts and omissions of the parties.'
concerned respectively which are made to constitute a' disseizin. The requirement that the statutory. disseizin should
continue until the action 'was brought is further shown, by,

SOPER v. LAWRENCE BROTHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

201 .U. S.

the word "said" in the phrase "unless commenced within
said twenty years," to which "or before January one, nineteen
hundred," is the alternative. Said twenty years are the years
during which the disseizor has been. paying taxes -and holding
possession. If between"1895 and 1900 the former owner had
been paying the taxes and doing- acts indicative of ownership
he would be seized by the very terms of the statute. He
Would have no occasion to sue, and we hardly understand it
to be suggested that he -could be sued on the strength of a
disseizin satisfying the statute during the twenty years before
it was passed, but ending in 1895. If such a suggestion should
be made it would be disposed of by 'recalling again that for
*five years after the-enactment, for purposes of suit at least,
,he stood constructively seized by force of § 4; whenever apart
-from the statute he would not have been disseized. Of course
.therefore he was not disseized retrospectively before the date
of the act. It is still more absurd to suppose that the act
.meant that if he had paid the taxes and done acts of owner*ship, so that he was not merely, constructively but actually
seized during the five years, his title was to vanish when that
-time

had elapsed.

Th discussion is 'narrowed, then, to the consideration of' an
action begun, as this was, after January 1, 1900; when the defendant has held that statutory possession for the five years
following the act and for fifteen years before. If the plaintiff
had brough.t a real action instead of the present suit, he would
have'been, barred if the statute is good. The plaintiff says
that the counting of the fifteen years before the enactment
makes the statute bad. But suppose that the statute had
enacted simply that if the conditions:of. § 1 should be maintained from the date of the act until January 1, 1900, and no
action brought, the former owner should be barred, there can
be no question that it'would have been valid. It was not and
could not be .argued that a statute of limitations allowing
nearly five years would be unreasonably -short. Turner v.
New' York, 168 U. S. 90; Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628.
voL. ccT-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

But, if such a statute would be constitutional, the requirement of a continuance of similar conditions for a time before
the statute long enough to make twenty continuous years
when taken with the five years following it was a pure advantage to the plaintiff, a further condition which did him
only good. It was not argued that the statute was invalid
because a less time was allowed to persons in the plaintiff's
position than to those, whose twenty years should begin to
run after the statute went into effect. Similar provisions are
common and seem to have been before the court in Terry v.
Anderson and Turner v. New York, supra, and in Koshkonong
v. Burton, 104 U. S. 668.
Some objetion was made to the effect given to a tax deed
in the first part of the section. But that is not before us.
We see nothing to indicate an intent to go beyond the law.
Marx v. Hanthorn, 148 U. S. 172. As to the possibility that
the taxes may have been assessed unlawfully, or the recorded
deed under which the defendant claims forged, it is admitted
that such matters might be proved. As they are public facts,
give color to the overt acts done upon the land and must be
accompanied by a- necessarily conscious omission of the plaintiff to pay taxes or do any acts of ownership, we see nothing
to hinder the legislature making them sufficient, prima facie
at least, to set the, statute running and to put the former
owners to a suit.
The act as we construe it does not infringe the Fourteenth
'Amendment. We understand our construction to agree with
that adopted by the Supreme Judicial Court of the State. That.
court says of the statute, "it is not only not retrospective, but
is distinctly made prospective only in its operation, and the
reasonable period of five years after the date of the enactment
is allowed during which all controversies respecting such titles
might be adjusted according to 'the principles and the nature
of those facts by means of which those titles had existed'
before the passage of the act." Of course if the statute as
construed by the state court is constitutional we follow its

RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
201 U. .

Argument for Appellant.

construction. Tampa Water Works Co. v. Tampa, 199 U. S.
241, 243. We have made some little analysis of the words
simply because the state court went into no detail.
Judgment affirmed.

RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRI17T COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 209. Argued March 14, 1906.-Decided April 2,1906.
Remote explanations as to the use and meaning of a word will be rejected
when the will offers upon its face a different and more obvious one.
The words sucesion legitima in the will of a Porto Rican held to mean "issue,"
and not. "lawful heirs."
This court will not consider a claim which was not set up in the bill or in
the court below, nor suggested until after the argument in this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fritz v. Briesen, with whom were Mr. Charles M. Boerman and Mr. Stephen M. Hoye on the brief, for appellant:
The real point in issue, in determining the proper construction of the will, is whether the words "sucesion legitima"
used in the thirteenth, the residuary clause of the will, mean
"legal issue" or "legal heirs." If the former, this appeal
must fail; if the latter, the complainant is entitled to take
as the legal heir of her daughter, Felipa Benecia.
The primary and technical meaning of the words "sucesion
legitima" is "legal heirs."
As used in the Spanish Codes and law dictionaries the words
"sucesion legitima" have a meaning which may be most nearly
expressed by the English words "intestate succession." Escriche, Diccionario Razonado de Legislacion y Jurisprudencia,
Paris, 1852, tit. "Sucesion legitima;" Pothier, 8 (Euvres
(Edited by Bugnet), Paris, .1890, TraitO des Succesions, 1;

