OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S

JOY v. CITY OF ST. LOUIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 204. Argued March 9, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

Where diversity of citizenship does not exist, plaintiff cannot make out a
case as arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States
so as to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction, unless it necessarily appears
by his complaint in stating his own claim, and it cannot be made to
appear by an assertion in plaintiff's pleading, that the defense raises
a Federal question.
The mere fact that plaintiff's title comes from a patent or under an act
of Congress does not necessarily involve a Federal question; there must
be an actual dispute as to the construction of the patent or act.
While the Federal court construes Government grants without reference
to the construction adopted by the States for their grants, the incidents
attached to ownership of property conveyed by the United States bordering on a navigable stream are to be determined by the State in which
i
it is situated subject to the limitation that itsrules do not impair the
efficacy of the grant or its use by the grantee.
Whether land contained in an original patent reached to a river under
the distances called for is a question of fact, and whetler the patentee
is entitled to accretion is a question of local and not Federal law, and
ejectment for the land made by accretion cannot, where diversity of
citizenship does not exist, be maintained in the Circuit Court as a case
arising under the laws of the United States.
Although a case'may not be one on plaintiff's statement of which the Circuit Court has jurisdiction as arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, if the case is brought in the state court questions
of a Federal nature may arise during the trial, and the party who specially
sets up a Federal right which is denied may have the same reviewed
by this court by-writ of error under § 709, Rev. Stat.

THIs is an action of ejectment to recover certain lands in the
City of St. Louis, State of Missouri, described in the petition,
which was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri. The petition was dismissed by

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
201 U. S.

Statement, of the. Case.

,the :court solely upon the ground that the court was without
jurisdiction, and the trial judge so certified the fact. The plaintiff sued out a writ of error and brought the case directly here
for review under the fifth section of the act of 1891. 1 Comp.
Stat. 549.
The petition sets forth in- detail the title of the plaintiff in
error to the premises which he seeks to recover in this action.
It is therein stated that a confirmation of a concession was
made by the commissioners appointed pursuant to an act of
Congress, approved March 2, 1805, entitled "An act for the
ascertaining and adjusting the titles and claims to land, within
the Territory of Orleans, and the District of Louisiana," such
concession having been made to one Louis Labeaume, of 360
arpents of land, by the lieutenant governor of the Spanish
Province of Upper Louisiana; on February 15, 1799, and it was
duly surveyed and certified April 10, 1799. The land remained
an.outlot, adjoining and belonging to the former town or village
(now city) of St. Louis, and said outlot was owned, claimed,
inhabited, cultivated and possessed by Labeaume prior to the
twentieth day of December, 1803. By virtue of the first section of an act of Congress, approved June 13, 1812, 'entitled
"An act making further provision for settling the claims 'to
land in the Territory of Missouri," the title in fee simple to
said concession., survey, confirmation and outlot was confirmed
. . .
and granted to Labeaume..
Pursuant to an act of Congress, approved March 3,. 1807,
letters patent of the United States were issued to Labeaurtie,
bearing date the twenty-fifth day of March, 1852, which letters
purported and were sufficient to. grant to, Labeaume,'. or his
legal representatives, the premises mentioned in' the patent.
On the sixth day of June, 1874, those from and under whom
plaintiff derives title to the real estate -ued for were the owners
of the concession, and by an act of Congress, entitled "An act
obviating the necessity of issuing patents for certain private
land, claims in the State 'of Missouri, and: for other"purposes,"
approved June 6, 1874, it is provided that the right, title and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

interest of the United States in and to all of the lands in the
State of Missouri, which had been confirmed by Congfess, or
officers acting under and by authority of Congress, were granted,
released and relinquished by the United States, in fee simple,
to the respective owners of the equitable titles thereto, their
heirs and assigns, forever, as fully and completely in every respect whatever as could be done by patents issued therefor
according to law.
By virtue of these matters and by mesne conveyances from
Labeaume it was averred that plaintiff became the owner of
the land in question, and that a controversy had arisen between the plaintiff and the defendants herein as to the proper
construction and legal effect of the letters patent and the acts
of Congress, approved June 13, 1812, and June 6, 1874, and
the plaintiff herein averred in his petition"that under and by virtue of said confirmation, act of Congress
approved June 13th, 1812, letters patent and act of Congress
approved June 6th, 1874, said river (Mississippi) is the western
boundary of said outlot, confirmation to Louis Labeaume, and
said Soulard survey and survey number 3333, and that the said
Louis Labeaume or his legal representatives were thereby
granted all of the land lying on said west bank of said river, between the northern and southern boundary lines of said outlot, confirmation, Soulard's survey and United States survey
number 3333, to said river, and that they were thereby constituted riparian proprietors and owners of all the land along
said river bank between said north and south lines of said outlot, confirmation, and surveys, and were thereby vested with
the title to, and ownership of, all land thereafter- formed by
accretions or gradual deposits from the said river along said
west, bank thereof, between said north and south lines of said.
outlot, confirmation and surveys, where a large body of land
was formed by accretions to said outlot, confirmation and surveys.
"That said claim of plaintiff as to the proper construction
and legal effect of said confirmation, acts of Congress approved

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
201 U. S.

Staement of the Case.

June. 13th, 1812, and June 6th, 1874, respectively, and patent,
is disputed by defendants, and contested by them -in regard to
the title of the land hereinafter described, and which land is a
portion of the land formed by accretions or gradual deposits
from said river, along said west bank thereof, between said
north and south lines of said outlot, confirmation and surveys,
and which thereby became a portion of the land granted by
said letters patent and acts of Congress approved June 13th,
1812, and June 6th, 1874, respectively,. and is the land herein.
sued for."
It is then averred that the proper construction and legal effect of the confirmation, acts of Congress and letters patent constitute the controlling question in the case, upon the correct
decision of which plaintiff's title to the premises sought to be
recovered herein depends, and he "therefore avers that this suit
arises under the law of the United States, and said confirmation
made and letters patent issued in. pursuance thereof, and said
acts of Congress, approved June 13, 1812, and June 6, 1874,
respectively."
"He further states that as such legal owner of the premises
he was entitled to the possession of the same under and by
virtue of said confirmation, letters patent and acts of Congress,
approved June 13, 1812, and June 6, 1874, respectively, on the
16th day of June, 1896, which are described as follows: ' The
plaintiff then gives a description of the land in controversy,
which he alleges to be a portion of the accretions of the outlot,
confirmation and surveys already mentioned.
It was also alleged that the defendants entered upon the
premises on the sixteenth of 'June, 1896, claiming to own the
same as a wharf, under and by virtue of section 9 of an act of
Congress approved June 12, 1866, entitled "An act authorizing
documentary evidence, of title to be furnished to the owners of
certain lands in the City of St. Louis."
Plaintiff then demanded judgment for the recovery of the
premises, and five thousand dollars for the unlawful withholding of the same, and one hundred dollars for monthly rents and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905."
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

201 U. S.

profits, from the rendition of judgment until the possession of
the premises is delivered' to plaintiff.
The manufacturing company defendant filed an answer,
denying each and every allegation of the petition. It also set
up that it held the premises under the City of St. Louis and
that-the city (and the defendant holding under it) has had open,
continuous, notorious and adverse possession of the premises,
under claim and color of 'title, for more than ten years next
before the filing of said petition.
.The City of St. Louis filed a-separate plea to the jurisdiction
of the court, and asserted that it had no jurisdiction to try and
determine the cause, because no Federal question or question
of any kind giving jurisdiction to the, court under the statutes
and laws of the United States is involved in the issues in this
cause: It further set up the facts in relation to the case of
Sweringen v. St. Louis, in which the plaintiff therein claimed
title to and possession .of the property next immediately, north
of the premises herein claimed by plaintiff, under the same
patent of the United States as that under which the plaintiff
herein claims; and the. history of the litigation is given, and the
decision ,of i e case in this 'court is referred to, which is to be
found reported inp185 U. S.38.
,Mr..E. P. Johnson for plaintiff in error:
The petition is a statutory one in ejectment and sets out in
detaiLand with great particularity the claims of plaintiff in
error. It follows and elaborates the petition in form and substance, epitomized in the case of Cooke v,Avery, in stating the
clai -of plaintiff in error under said acts of Congress, the dispute and denial of said claims by defendants-in error, and that.
said claims constitute the controlling question in the case and
upon the. proper construction and legal effect of which his
rights depend, and it sufficiently states a Federal question.
Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S.375; Carondelet v. St..Louis, 1 Black,
180; Lake Superior &c. Co. v. Cunningham, 155 U. S. 354;
Wisconsin Central Railway Co. V. Forsythe, 159 U. S. 46, 'Spo-

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

kane Falls and Northern Railway Co. v. Ziegler, 167 U. S. 65;
Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526;
Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618, 620.
There is a sufficient statement to show that the construction
and legal effect of the acts of Congress and patent as to the
right to alluvion and the extent to which land was, or might
,have been, conveyed by them was required, and therefore presented a Federal question. Security Land & Exploration Co.
v. Burns, 193 U. S. 167, 171; Jefferis v. East Omaha Land Co.,,
134 U. S. 178, 182; Packer v. Bird,' 137 U. S. 661, 662. This
,conflict of grants; the allegation, of an entry by a claimant
claiming to own the land under one of them, having been made
to identify the premises with. the conflicting grants,' presents
;a Federal question and it has been the source of much litigation. Ross v. Doe, 1 Pet. 655, 664; Baldwin v. Stark, 107
U. S. 463, 464; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 9; Hussman v.
Durham, 165 U. S. 144, 147; Pickeringv. Lomax, 145 U. S. 310,
313, Glasgow.v. Baker, 128 U. S. 560 571; Wallace v. Paiker,
6 Pet. 680, 686; Neilson v. Lagow, 7 How.. 772, 775; Bell v.
Hearne, 19 How. 252, 263; Cousin v. Labatut, 19 How. 202, 207;
Berthold v. McDonald, 22 How. 334, .338; Little v. Arkansas,
22 How. 193, 202; Magwire v. Tyler, 1 Black, 195, 202;. Reichart v. Felps, 6 Wall.. 160, 165; Silver v. Ladd, 6 Wall. 440;
French-Glenn Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47; 54;
Mobile Transportation 'Co. v. Mobile, 187 U. S. 479, 482;
Kean v. Calumet •Canal Co., 190 U. S. 452, 458;' Lavagnino
v., Uhlig, 198 U. S. 443, 450;. Gleason v. White, 199 U. S.
;54 .

'

'. .

:

.

If plaintiff in error on a trial -in the court below should
fail to produce sufficient evidence to vese a legal title in Labeaume, under act of June 13, 1812, then the. only question
would be whether the patent or the fir5 section of the act of
.Congress of June 6,1874, 18 Stat: 62, Vested it in, him,. and in
the event 6f a contest between them in.regard to the title, it
would present a Federal question. Campbell v. Laclede 'Gas
Light Co., 119 U. S. 445, 446. Sweringen v. S1, Louis, 185 U. S.
voi: cci-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

201 U. S.

38, has no bearing on this case. See Sutton v. Dameron, 100
Missouri, 141, 149.
Mr. Charles Claflin Allen, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bates
and Mr. Henry W. Allen were on the brief, for defendants in
error:
There being no allegation of diversity of citizenship, the only
question involved is, whether the petition discloses a cause of
action arising under the laws of the United States so as to give
the court below jurisdiction of the cause. The jurisdiction of
that court is .defined by act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433.
In order to give the lower court jurisdiction the necessary
facts to confer jurisdiction must be stated in the petition itself,
and, unless the jurisdictional facts affirmatively appear from
the record, the presumption upon writ of error or appeal, is
that the court below was without jurisdiction. King Iron
Bridge & Mfg. Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225; Third Street
& Suburban Ry. Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S. 457; Florida Central
Ry. Co. v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co.; 194 U. S. 48.
No jurisdiction is shown by the record in this case. It does
not appear on the face of the record that some title, right,
privilege or immunity; on which the recovery depends, will be
defeated by one construction of the Constitution or a law of
the United States, or sustained by an opposite construction.
Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 257; Germania Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 119 U. S. 473; Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375.
Jurisdiction cannot be conferred by alleging that defendant
intends to dispute the validity of some law of the United.States
or to assert a defense based on some such law. Tennessee v.
Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Florida Central R. R.
Co. v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321; Chappell v. Waterworth, 155 U. S.
102; Walker v. Collins, 167 U. S. 57; Sawyer v. Kochersperger,
170 U. S. 303; Arkanwas V, Coal Co., 183 U. S. 185; -Little York
Gold Washing Water Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199.
In an action of ejectment the plaintiff must recover, if at all

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
201 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

upon the strength of his own title. The weakness of his adversary's cannot avail him. McNitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 352. The
plaintiff cannot confer Federal jurisdiction by anticipating the
defendant's claims of title, which the court may never be called,
upon to consider, or by raising fictitious disputes with himself.
McGuire v. Blount, 199 U. S. 142; Watts v. Lindsey, 7 Wheat.
158. The law concerning ejectment is the same in Missouri as
in the United States courts. Hunt v. Searcy, 167 Missouri, 158.
The original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United
States under the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, is quite
different from the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court
under § 709 of the Revised Statutes. Cases, therefore, in which
the Supreme Court has jurisdiction on writ of error to a state
Supreme Court are not authorities on the questions of jurisdiction here involved. Carson v. Dunham, 121 U. S., 421.
The fact that one of the parties has derived his title directly
under an act of Congress does not, for that reason alone,-present a Federal question. Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining
Co., 175 U. S. 571; see also Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177
U. S. 505.
The fact that the language of a grant from the United States
may have to be construed in the usual and ordinary way applicable to instruments conveying title in order to determine the
correct measurements of the land conveyed does not raise a
Federal. question. Sweringen v. St. Louis, 185 U. S. 38.
The many cases cited by plaintiff in error, in which this court
passed the question of jurisdiction sub silentio, are no authority
in the case at bar. New v. Oklahoma, 195 U. S. 252; United
States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159.
Plaintiff, in setting up the various acts of Congress and claiming that differences may exist between them is disputing with
himself-not with the defendants. They resulted in a patent
from the United States, the validity of which, is not disputed.
All plaintiff needs to show is one title, good in him, to r:ake
out a prima facie case and he cannot rely upon possible defects
in that title in order to raise a Federal question. Lanydeau v.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

Hanes, 21 Wall. 521; Morrow V. Whithey, 95 U. S. 551; Wright
v. Roseberry, 121 U.-S. 488.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no diversity of -itizenship in this case, and the only
ground of jurisdiction claimed is that the action arises under
the laws of the United States. The case is a pure action of
ejectment, aid the general rule in such actions, as to the complaint, is that the only facts necessary to be stated therein are,
that plaintiff is the owner of the premises described,. and entitled to the possession, and that defendant wrongfully withholds such possession, to plaintiff's damage in an am6unt stated.
Setting out the source. of the plaintiff's title, as was done with
so much detail in this case, was unnecessary, but it does not
alter the case, because a claim that the title comes from the
United States does not, for that reason merely, raise a Federal
question.
It is a long-settled rule, evidenced by many decisions of this
court, that the plaintiff cannot make out a case as arising under
the Constitution or the laws of the United States unless it
necessarily appears, by the complaint or petition or bill in
stating plaintiff's cause of action. In Gold-Washing Co. v.
Keyes, 96 U. :S. 199, 203, it was said that before the Circuit
Court can be required to retain a cause under its jurisdiction,
under section 5, act of 1875, it must in some form appear upon
the record, by a statement of facts, in legal and logical form,
such as is required in good pleading, that the suit is one which,
really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy, as
to a right which depends upon the construction or effect of the
Constitution, or some law or treaty of the United States. That
was a case of a petition for a removal of a suit from the state
to the Federal court. But it has been held that whether there
is a right of removal in such cases depends upon Whether the'
Circuit Court could have exercised original jurisdiction. Third
.,Street &c, Co, v, Lewis, 173 U, S, 457; Arkansas v, Coal Co.,

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
201 U. S.

-

Opinion of the Court.

183 U. S. 185; Boston &c. Mining Co. v. Montana &c. Co., 188
U. S. 632, 640. This original jurisdiction, it has been frequently held, must appear by the plaintiff's statement of his
own claim, and it cannot be made to appear by the assertion
in the plaintiff's pleading that the defense raises or will raise a
Federal question. As has been stated, the rule is a reasonable
and just one that the complainant in the first instance shall be
confined to -astatement of his cause of action, leaving to the
defendant to set up in his answer what his defense is, and, if
anything more than a denial bf plaintiff's cause of action, imposing upon the defendant the burden of proving such defense.
This principle was given effect to in Tennessee v. Union &
Planters' Bank, 152 U. S.454; Muse V. Arlington Hotel Co., 168
U. S.430; Third Street &c. Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S. 457; Arkansas v. Coal Co., 183 U. S. supra; Filhiol v. Maurice, 185 U. S.
108; Boston &c. Co. v. Montana &c. Co., 188 U. S. supra.
The mere fact that the title of plaintiff comes from a .patent or under an act of Congress does not show that a Federal
question arises. It was said in Blackburn v. Portland &c.Co.,
175 U. S. 571, that "this court has frequently been vainly asked
to hold that controversies in respect to lands, one of the parties
to which had derived histtitle directly under an act of Congress,
for that reason alone presented a Federal question." The
same principle was held in Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177
U. S. 505, and also in De Lamar's Gold Mining Co. v. Nesbitt,
177 U. S. 523.
To say that there is a dispute between the parties as to the
construction of the patent or of the several acts of Congress
referred to, does not raise a Federal question, because a statement that there is such dispute is entirely unnecessary in averring or proving plaintiff's cause of action. His source of title,
as set forth in the petition, might not be disputed, and the defense might rest upon the defense of adverse possession, as set
up in the answer. If'defendants contented themselves on the
trial with proof of such defense, then no question of a Federal
nature would have been tried or decided.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

In those cases where the dispute necessarily appears in the
course of properly alleging and proving the plaintiff's cause of
action, the situation is entirely different. In this case the reat
dispute, as stated by the plaintiff, is whether plaintiff is entitled
to the land formed by accretion, which has taken place many
years since the patent was issued and since the acts of Congress
were passed. There is no dispute as to the terms of the patent
or of the acts of Congress. The language of the averment in
the petition (which is set out in full in the foregoing statement
of facts) shows that the .controversy in dispute is not at all in
regard to the land covered by-the letters patent or by the acts
of Congress, and no dispute is alleged to exist as to such land,
but the dispute relates to land, "which land is a portion of the
land formed by accretions or gradual deposits from said river,
along said west bank thereof, between said north and south
lines of said outlot, confirmation and surveys, and which
thereby became a portion of the: land granted by said letters
patent and acts of Congress approved June 13, 1812, and June 6,
1874, respectively."
Now, whether the land contained in the original patent
reached to the Mississippi river as its eastern boundary, under
the distances called for by the patent, would be a question of
fact, as was stated in Sweringen v. St. Louis, 185 U. S. 38, and
whether the plaintiff is, upon the facts set forth, entitled to the
accretion, is a question of local or state law, and is not one of
a Federal nature. St. Anthony Falls &c. Co. v. St..Paul Water
Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349, 359, and cases cited. In Packer
v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, it was held that while the Federal court
would construe grants of the General Government without reference to the rules of construction adopted by the States for
grants by them, yet whatever incidents or rights attached to the
ownership of the property conveyed by the United States bordering
on a navigable stream would be determined by the States in
which it is situated, subject to the limitation that their rules
do not impair the efficacy of the grant, or the.use and enjoyment of the property by the grantee. To the same effect is

JOY v. ST. LOUIS.
201 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Shively v. Bowlby, 152, U. S. 1. In the opinion in that case, at
page 57, it is said: "By the law of the State of Oregon, therefore,
as enacted by its legislature and declared by its highest court,
the title in the lands in controversy is in the defendants in
error; and, upon the principles recognized and affirmed by a
uniform series of recent decisions of this court, above referred
to, the law of Oregon governs the case. "
As this land in controversy is not the land described in
the letters patent or the acts of Congress, but, as is stated in the
petition, is formed by accretions or. gradual deposits from the
river, whether such land belongs to the plaintiff is, under the
cases just cited, a matter of local or state law, and not one
arising under the laws of the United States.
The question before us is wholly different from the case of a
writ of error to a state court founded upon section 709 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States. A Federal question
may appear in the course of the, trial, and some right specially
claimed or set up under a Federal statute may have been denied, and the party against whom the decision was made can
have the question reviewed by this court under that section.
In Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375, this question was not decided. It was not referred to in the course of the opinion,
and it is no authority for the plaintiff's contention herein. It
was simply held that there was an issue between the parties
which depended upon the laws of the United States and the
rules of the Circuit Court, and their construction and application were directly involved
In any aspect in which this case may be viewed, we think it
was not one over which the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, and
for that reason its order dismissing the petition is

Affirmed.

