HOUSTON & TEX. CENT. RAILROAD v. MAYES. 321
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

judge. In the assignment of errors filed in this court the only
error charged is that, although the court below found there was
no common-law marriage between Eli Keen and Phoebe, yet
in its special findings, it found all the facts required to establish such common-law marriage between them, and that from
the facts so found the law presumed a null and void marriage
between said Eli Keen and Phoebe Keen, the issue of which
was capable of inheriting under the statutes of Missouri.
Revised Statutes, ยง 2918. No reference is made to the Constitution of the United States in this connection. In addition
to -this, the question what facts constitute a common-law
marriage is, purely a local one. We have searched the record
for a Federal question, but. have found none. The writ of
error is, therefore,
..
Dismissed.

HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v. MAYES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS
TRICT OF
No. 198.

THE

STATE

OF

FOR THE. THIRD DISTEXAS.

Argiued March 8, 1906.-Decided April 2, 1906.

An absolute requirement that a railroad engaged in interstate commerce
shall furnish a certain number of cars on a specified day, to transport
merchandise to another State, regardless of every other consideration
except strikes and other public calamities, transcends the police power
of the States and amounts to a burden upon interstate commerce; and.
articles 4497-5000, Rev. Stat. Texas, being-ucha requirement, are, when
applied to interstate commerce shipments, void as a violation of the commerce clause .of the Federal Constitution.
Such a regulation cannot be sustained as to interstate commerce shipments
as an exercise of the police power of the State.
THIS, was an action begun by Mayes in. the District Court of
Llano County, Texas, against the Houston and Texas -Central
Railroad Company to recover a penalty of $475, by reason of
defendant's failure to furnish seventeen stock cars, applied for in
VOL. CCi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

201 U. S.

writing by the plaintiff under the provisions of certain statutes
of Texas hereinafter referred to, for the purpose of shipping
plaintiff's cattle from Llano, Texas, to Red Rock, Oklahoma,
and for damages occasioned by'defendant's negligence.
The petitioner alleged that the defendant company formed
with two other railroad companies a continuous line from Llano
to Red Rock, and were engaged as common carriers in the busi-'
ness of shipping live stock and other freight; that on April 9,
1903, plaintiff, being the owner of six .hundred*and twenty-five
head of cattle, made application in writing to the local agent
of the road for seventeen stock cars to be delivered on April 20,
and deposited with the agent one-fourth of the freight on the
same, namely, $268.82, promising to pay 'the remainder on demand, and that he afterwards paid the same; that upon the
day named, April 20, he had cattle sufficient to load the cars,
delivered them to the defendant at its stock pens at Llano for
shipment, but the defendant failed to furnish the cars, and did
not furnish the same until the afternoon of, the twenty-first
of April, 1903.
The trial resulted in a judgment in favor of the plaintiff for
$425 penalty for delay, and $500 damages to the stock while
in the pens at Llano. This judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Civil Appeals, and an application for a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the State was overruled.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. Robert S. Lovett, Mr.
James A. Baker and Mr. Gordon M. Buck, were on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error:
The Texas statutes as construed by the highest court of that
State impose upon a railroad company engaged in interstate
commerce the burden of furnishing, upon demand, cars for interstate transportation, in unlimited numbers, within a time
arbitrarily fixed by the statutes without- regard to the circumstances or facilities of the company; and upon failure, from
inability or other cause, to furnish the cars within thq prescribed
period, the company is subjected to severe penalties for failure

HOUSTON & TEX. CENT. RAILROAD v. MAYES. 323
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

or mere delay in complying with the statutory requirements.
This is a direct burden upon interstate commerce, and is such
a regulation of commerce between the States as is vested in
Congress.
The statutes should have been construed as intended to apply
only to intrastate shipments, but the state -courts declined to
so limit them; and of course this court is bound by the interpretation of the statutes by the state court and'must consider
them as having been intended by the legislature to apply to
interstate commerce.
Th power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
States is exclusive. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.'419, 446;
Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 574. Interstate transportation
is interstate commerce. State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall..275;
United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 312.
The intention 6f the Constitution was to confer the power to
'regulate interstate ' commerce exclusively upon Congress and
not to, divide the power between the state legislatures and Congress. One of 'the chief objects of the Constitution was to rid
commerce of the conflicting, vexatious and burdensome restrictions, which, under the Articles of Confederation,,had been
imposed by the various States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1;
Passenger Cases, 7 How. 383; State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall.
279; Hall v.DeCuir,95 U. S.485; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Illinois,
118 U. S.557; Pickardv. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34, 46; Fargo
v. Michigan, 121 U. S._238, 240; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.
640; Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Woodruff v. Parham,
8 Wall. 123'; American Expre~s Co. v. Iowa, 196 U.,S. 133.
The matter sought to be regulated is in no sense local but
is national in character and importance and obviously admits
of national regulation. From the first, certain state laws relating to pilotage, quarantine, etc., were sustained notwithstanding an incidental effect upon interstate and foreign commerce. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S.485, 487; Cooley v. Board of
Wardens, 12 How. 299; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S.204, 209. See also Wilton v. State, 91 U. S. 275; Robbin

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in .Error.

201. U. S.

v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; County of Mobile v.
Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,

114 U. S. 196; Brown v,Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Philadelphia
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Louisville &
Nashville Ry. v. Eubank, 184 U. S.27; Illinois Central Ry. V.
Illinois, 163 U. S.- 142; Cleveland &c. Ry. v. Illinois, 177 U. S.
514..
If the State ever possessed :such power it was only untilCongress should act, and Congress having assumed it the State is
no longer efititled to exercise it. Since Congress has acted and
has provided a system -of laws regulating railroads as instruments of interstate commerce in great detail, it has, excluded
the power of the States to act upon the subject. Bowman v.
Chicago &c. Ry., 125 U. S.465; Sinnot v,Davenport, 22 Hdw.
227.
The -defense of state legislation in violation of the Federal
Constitution that it is within the police power is untenable in
this case. Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; License Cases,
5 How. 504, 599; Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275; Robbins
v. Shelby County District, 120 U. S.489.
The Texas statutes as applied in this case plainly regulate
interstate comrdrce and are therefore void. See Central of
Georgia Ry. v. Murphy, 196 U. S. 194.
Nor can it be said, as was said by the court, in Western Union
Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, that the statute merely provides a penalty for enforcing more completely a duty which
exists at common law.
The plaintiff in error did not owe any duty to furnish cars
to be carried to a destination beyond its own line, nor did it
owe a duty to furnish cars at a certain hour, of a certain day
or otherwise than within a reasonable time.
In compelling the railroad company to furnish cars to go
beyond its own line and out of its possession into a distant
State, with no provision for their return or for compensation,
the State deprives the railroad company of property without
due process of law, .contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.:

HOUSTON & TEX. CENT. RAILROAD v. MAYES. 325
201 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Coles v. RailroadCo. (Ga.), 45 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cases, 330;
Atchison &c. Co. v. Denver &c. Co., 110 U. S. 667, 680; Gulf &c.
Ry. Co. v. Miami &c. Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 419; Post v. Southern
Ry. Co., 103 Tennessee, p03; Pittsburg &c. R. Co. v. Morton, 61
Indiana, 573; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226;
Burlington, C. R. & N. Ry. v. Dey, 82 Iowa, 312, distinguished;
see S. C., 89 Iowa, 13, at p. 25.
Mr. T.. W. Gregory, for defendant in error, submitted:
The statutes complained of by plaintiffs in error, as applied
to interstate shipments, do not .attempt any unlawful regulation of interstate commerce, but are a proper exercise of the
police power of the-State and are valid.
The cattle in this case (lid not become the subject of interstate commerce until they were delivered to and received by
the carrier fcr transportation on the journey. Coe v. Erroll,
116 U. S. 517; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Elx parteKoehler',
30 Fed. Rep. 867; In re Greene, 52.Fed. Rep. 113; Railway Co.
v. Sherwood, 84 Texas, 125. By analogy to the rule announced
in these cases it has been held, that a train consisting of empty
freight cars being prepared and taken to a point without the
State for the purpose of transporting coal within the State is
not engaged in interstate commerce. Norfolk &c. R. R. Co. v.
Commonwealth, 93 Virginia, 57.
The plaintiff in error was conducting its business as a common carrier in the State, subject necessarily to the condition
that it would conform to such reasonable regulations as the
State might from time to time establish, that were not in violation of the supreme law of the land. In the absence of legislation by Congress, it would be, going very' far to hold that
such an enactment as the one complained of in this case was
in itself a regulation of interstate commerce. It was for the
State -to take into consideration all the transactions affecting
freight traffic within ;ts limits, and as far as practicable, make
such regulations as were just to all who might have occasion to
ship over the road. It was entitled, of course, to provide for

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

the convenience of shippers desiring to have freight transported
on domestic trains, and this the statutes in question undertook
to do, by requiring carriers to furnish cars promptly upon
proper demand. But the State was not bound to ignore the
convenience of those who desired to have freight transported
to points beyond the limits of the State. Cherokee Nation v.
Southern Kansas R. Co., 135 U. S. 641.
These regulations ought to be regarded as rather in aid of
interstate commerce and a rightful exercise of the police powers of the State. Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Solan, 169
U. S. 133; Western Union Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650;
N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; Richmond & A. R. Co. v. Patterson Tob. Co., 169 U. S. 311; Escanaba & L. M. Transp. Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; M., K. &
T. R. Co. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 580.
The statutes are not in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; they do not prescribe rates or interfere in any manner
with the carrier's freedom of contract.
MR.JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

'This case involves the constitutionality of certain articles of
the. Revised Statutes of Texas, set forth in the margin, 1 the
1 "ART. 4497. When the owner, manager or shipper of any freight of any
kind shall make application in writing to any superintendent, agent or
other person in charge of transportation, to any railway company, receiver

or trustee operating a line of railway at the point the cars are desired upon
which to ship any freight, it shall be the duty of such railway company,
receiver, trustee or other person in charge thereof, to supply the number
of cars so required, at the point indicated in the application, within a reasonable time thereafter, not to exceed six days from the receipt of such
application, and shall supply such cars to the persons so applying therefor,
in th- order in which such applications are made, without giving preference
to any person; provided, if the application be for ten cars or less, the same
'shall be furnished in three days; and provided' further, that if the application be for fifty cars or more, the railway company may have ten full
days in which to supply the cars. (As amended by the act of 1899, page 67.)
"ART. 4498. Said application shall state the number of cars desired, the

HOUSTON & TEX. CENT. RAILROAD v. MAYES. 327
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

material requirement of which is that when the. shipper of
freight shall make a requisition in writing for a number of cars
to be furnished at any point indicated within a certain number
of days from the receipt of the application, and shall, deposit
one-fourth of the freight with the agent of the company, the
company failing to furnish them shall forfeit $25 per day for each
car failed to be furnished, the only proviso being that the law
"shall not apply in cases of strikes oi other public calamity."
The defense was that this statute was not applicable to demands made for cars to be sent out of the State and to be used
iniinterstate commerce; and as the shipment was intended for
Oklahoma, the act did not apply, and the defendant was not
liable. The question is whether the statute, applied'as it is
place at which they are desired and the time they are desired; provided,
that the place designated shall be at some station or switch on the railroad.
"ART. 4499. When cars are applied for under the provisions of this chapter, if they are riot furnished, the railway company so failing to furnish
them shall forfeit to the party or parties so applying for them the sum of
twenty-five dollars per day for each car failed to be furnished, to be re-

covered in any court of competent jurisdiction, and all actual damages that
such applicant may sustain.
"ART. 4500. Such applicant shall, at the time of applying for such car
or cars, deposit with the agent of such company one-fourth of the amount
of the freight charge for the use of such cars, 'unless the said road shall
agree to deliver said cars without such deposit. And such applicant shall,
within forty-eight hours after such car or cars have been delivered and
placed as hereinbefore provided, fully load the same, and upon failure to
-do so, he shall forfeit and pay to the company the sum of twenty-five dollars for each car not used; provided, that where applications are made on
several days, all of which are filled upon the same day, the applicant shall
have forty-eight hours'to load the car or cars furnished on the first application, and the next forty-eight hours to load the car or cars furnished on
the next application, and-so on; and the penalty prescribed shall not accrue
as to any car or lot of cars applied for on any one day until the period within
which they may be loaded has expired. And if the said applicant shall not
use such cars so ordered by him, and shall so notify the said company or
its agent, he shall forfeit and pay to said railroad company, in addition -to
the penalty herein prescribed, the actual damages that such company may
sustain by the said failure of the applicant to use said cars." (As amended
by the act of -1899, page 67.)
Art. 4502 contains the following proviso: "that the provisions of this law
shall not apply in cases of strikes or other public calamity."

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

by the Texas court to interstate shipments,, is an infringement
upon the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
That, notwithstanding the exclusive nature of this power,
the States may, in the exercise of their police power, make reasonable rules with regard to the methods of carrying on interstate business; the precautions that shall be used to avoid
danger, the facilities for the comfort of passengers and the
safety of freight carried, and, to a certain extent, the stations
at which stoppages shall be made, is'settled by repeated decisions of this court. Of course, such rules are inoperative if
conflicting with regulations upon the same subject enacted by
Congress, and can be supported only when consistent with the
general requirement that interstate, commerce shall be free and
unobstructed, and not amounting to a regulation of such commerce. As the power to build and operate railways, and to
acquire land -by condemnation, usually rests upon state authority, the legislatures may annex such conditions as they please
with regard to intrastate transportation, and such other rules
regarding interstate commerce as are not inconsistent with the
general right of suchcommerce to be free and unobstructed.
The exact limit of lawful legislation upon this subject cannot
in the nature of things be defined. It can only be illustrated
from decided cases, by applying the principles therein enunciated, determining from these whether in the particular case
the rule be ieasonable or otherwise.
That 'States may not burden instruments of interstate commerce, whether railways or telegraphs," by taxatioi, by forbidding the introduction:'into the State of articles' of commerce
generally recognized as lawful, or by prohibiting their sale after
introduction, has been so frequently settled that a citation of
authorities isunnecessary. Upon the other hand, the validity
of local laws designed to protect. passengers or employ6s, or
persons crossing the railroad tracks, as well as other regulations
intended for the public good, are generally recognized. An
analysis of all the prior important cases upon this pQint will be
found in the opinion of the court in Cleveland &c. R. R. Co. v.

HOUSTON & TEX. 'CENT. RAIlROAD v. MAYES. 329
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Illinois, 177 U. S. 514, wherein a requirement that express
trains intended only for through passengers should stop at
every county seat, when ample accommodations were provided
by local trains, was held to be an unreasonable burden. Other
similar -cases regulating the stoppage of trains are Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142; Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U. S. 427; Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285.
In the same line is the more recent case of Wisconsin &c. R. R.
Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
While there is much to be said in favor of laws compelling
railroads to furnish adequate facilities for the transportation
of both freight and passengers, and to regulate the general suth.
ject of speed, length and frequency of stops, for the heating,
lighting and ventilation of passenger cars, the furnishing of
food and water to cattle and other live stock, we think an absolute requirement that a railroad shall furnish a certain number of cars at a specified day, regardless of every other consideration except strikes and other public calamities, transcends
the police power of the State and amounts to a burden upon
interstate commerce. It makes no exceptioft in cases of a suddefi congestion of traffic, an actual inability to furnish cars by
reason of their temporary and unavoidable detention in other
States, or in other places within the same State. It makes no
allowance for interference of traffic occasioned by wrecks or
other accidents upon, the same or other roads, involving a detention of traffic, the breaking of bridges, accidental fires, washouts or other unavoidable consequences of heavy weather.
A dereliction of the road in this particular, which may have
occurred. from circumstances wholly beyond the control of its
officers, is made punishable not only by damages actually incurred by the shipper in the detention of his stock, but in addition thereto by an arbitrary peinalty of $25 per car for each
day of detention. The penalty wl~ich was assessed in this case,
though the detention was only for one day, amounted to nearly
as much as the damages, and might in another case amount to
far more.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court

201 U. S.

While perhaps the road may have no right to complain of
that portion of the statute which assumes to provide for its
own protection, it is illustrative of its general spirit that, if the
shipper does not fully load his cars within forty-eight hours
after their arrival, he shall forfeit $25 for each car, or if the
consignee shall fail to unload them within forty-eight hours
after their delivery, at the place of consignment, which in the
case of interstate shipments would be in another State, he shall
also forfeit $25 per day for each car unloaded.
In this connection the recent case of Central &c. R. R. Co.
v. Murphey, 196 U. S. 194, is instructive. In that case we held
that the imposition by a state statute, upon the initial or any
connecting carrier, of the duty of tracing the freight and informing the shipper, in writing, when, where or how, and by
which carrier the freight was lost, damaged or destroyed, and
of giving the names of the parties and their official position,
if any, by whom the truth of the facts set out in the information could be established, is, when applied to interstate commerce, a violation of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution; and an act of the legislature of Georgia imposing such
a duty on common carriers was held void as to shipments made
from points in Georgia to other States.
Although the statute in question may have been dictated by
a due regard for the public interest of the cattle raisers of the
State, and may have been intended merely to secure promptness on the part of the railroad companies, in providing facilities for speedy transportation, we think that in its practical
operation it is likelyto work a great injustice to the roads,
and to impose heavy penalties for trivial, unintentional and
accidental violations of its provisions, when no damages could
actually have resulted to the shippers.
It should be borne in mind that the act does not apply to
cattle alone, but to all cases "when the owner, manager or
shipper of any freight of any kind shall make application in
writing," etc. The duty of the railroad company to furnish
the cars within the time limited is peremptory and admits of

HOUSTON & TEX. CENT. RAILROAD v. MAYES. 331
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

no excuses, except such as arise from strikes and other public.
calamities. If, for instance, the owner of a large quantity of
cotton should make a requisition under the act: for a number
of cars, the railway company would be bound to furnish them
upon the day named, or incur a penalty of $25 for each car,
though the detention of the cotton involved no expense to the
owner, or may even have resulted in a benefit to him through
a rise in the market.
While railroad companies may be bound to furnish sufficient
cars for their usual and ordinary traffic, cases will inevitably
arise where by reason of an unexpected turn in the market, a
great public gathering, or an unforeseen rush of travel, a pressure
upon the road for transportation facilities may arise, which
good management and a desire to fulfill all its legal requirements
cannot provide for, and against which the statute in question
makes no allowance.
Although it may be admitted that the statute is not far from
the line of proper police regulation, we think that sufficient
allowance is not made for the practical difficulties in the administration of the law, and that, as applied to interstate commerce, it transcends the legitimate powers of the legislature.
The judgment of the' Court of Civil Appeals is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for further pro-

ceedings.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this case.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

MCKENNA

dissented.

and MR.

JUSTICE

