OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
BOSSARD v. SAME.
McNAIR v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Nos. 490, 491, 492.

Argued January 5, 8, 1906.-Decided March 12,1906.

In a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States brought by the United
States against corporations for violations of the Anti-trust Law of July 2,
1890, a witness refused to answer questions or submit books to inspection before an examiner appointed by the court on the ground of immateriality, also pleading the Fifth Amendment; after the court had
overruled the objections and directed him to answer he again refused
and judgment in contempt was entered -against him. On appeal to
this court held, that:
Questions under the Constitution of the United States were involved and
this court has jurisdiction of an appeal direct from the Circuit Court.
In such an action the books of the various defendants both before and
after the alleged combination, and the contracts between them, as well
as other papers referred to in -the opinion, are all matters of material
proof, but whether material or not the testimony must be taken and
exceptions can be noted by the examiner and the materiality of the evidence passed on by the court.
Witnesses cannot take objections to materiality of evidence in order to be
relieved from testifying. The tendency or effect of the testimony on
the issues between the parties is no concern of theirs.
Documentary evidence in the shape of books and papers of corporations
are in the possession of the officers thereof, who cannot refuse to produce
them on the ground that they are not in their possession or under
their control.
Hale v. Henkel, ante, p. 43, followed to the effect that officers and em.ployds of corporations cannot, under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, refuse to testify or produce books of corporations in suits against
the corporations for violations of the Anti-trust Law of July 2, 1890,
in view of the immunity given by the act of February 25, 1903.

writs of error submit for review a judgment in contempt entered in the case of United States v. General Paper
Company, described in Alexander v. United States, post, p. 117.
The judgment was based upon the disobedience by the plaintiffs
in error to orders of the court requiring them to answer certain
THESE

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

questions and to produce certain books, documents and papers
in their examination before the special examiner in pursuance
to a subpoena duces tecum duly issued and served. The orders
requiring the plaintiffs to answer were made upon petition of
the United States, which exhibited the issues in the suit of
United States v. General PaperCompany et al., stated the questions asked plaintiffs in error, and the books, documents and
papers required of them.
Plaintiffs in error refused to obey the orders, and the examiner reported their disobedience to the court "'for such action
as the court might take for the further enforcement of its orders." In defense plaintiffs in error filed separate answers,
which respectively alleged that Nelson was the president and
manager of the Hennepin Paper Company; Brossard, manager
and treasurer of the Itasca Company, and McNair, a director
and general manager of the Northwest Paper Company. In
other particulars the answers are identical except so far as the
relations of plaintiffs in error to their respective corporations
made a difference. Plaintiffs in error are also directors of the
General Paper Company. We insert the answer of Nelson in
the margin.'
1 Now comes Benjamin F. Nelson and answering the order to show cause
made in the above-entitled matter on the 15th day of September, A. D. 1905,
and the petition heretofore filed in said matter by said complainant upon
which said order to show cause was made, alleges and shows unto the court
as follows:
That this respondent is a director and the president of Hennepin Paper
Company, one of the defendants in the above-entitled matter, and is also
the owner and holder of stock in said company of the par value of forty-nine
thousand ($49,000.00) dollars, and that the books and papers referred to
in said order to show cause and in the petition and schedules thereto attached, upon which said order to show cause was made, are the books and
papers of said Hennepin Paper Company and not of this respondent, and
are subject to the control of said Hennepin Paper Company and not of this
respondent; that this respondent is also a director of General Paper Com-,
pany, another of the defendants in the above entitled matter, and the owner
and holder of stock in said General Paper Company of the par value of two
thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; that said Hennepin Paper Company and said General Paper Company have objected and do object, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

The court required the questions to be answered and the
books and documents to be produced and, being of opinion that
the order did not constitute a final decision, refused to allow an
appeal on the part of either of the plaintiffs in error or either of
this respondent has objected and does object, to the production of said
books and papers for inspection by counsel for said complainant for the
purpose of being offered in evidence in said cause. Said objections are
based upon the following reasons:
1. That the materiality of said books and papers in the case mentioned
in said order to show cause now pending in said court has not been established so as to authorize a court of equity to order their inspection, production and introduction in evidence, and that the same are not material,
relevant or competent evidence in said cause; that said books and papers
contain matters of importance relating to the business of said Hennepin
Paper Company and said General Paper Company in no way bearing upon
or touching the issues in said cause, which it would be highly injurious to
the business interests of both of said companies to make public, and this
respondent submits that he ought not to be required to disclose any portions
of said books or papers except on a proper showing that the same are material to said cause to establish some issue therein, and a showing that the
same are not privileged for the protection of the defendants above named.
2. That one of the purposes of said complainant in instituting said cause
and in making the requests mentioned in said order to show cause forthe inspection, production and introduction as evidence of said books and papers,
is to establish and to compel said Hennepin Paper Company and said General Paper Company, and this respondent as such director or officer of each
of said defendants, to furnish to said complainant evidence tending to establish that said Hennepin Paper Company and said General Paper Company
have been guilty of certain violations of the act of Congress entitled "An
act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies," approved July 2, 1890, and the acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, and to subject said lennepin Paper Company and said
General Paper Company to the penalties for such -violations imposed by
said act, and that to compel the production by said Iennepin Paper Company or said General Paper Company, through their officers or otherwise,
of said books and papers for inspection and introduction as evidence in
said cause, would be contrary to the provisions of the Fifth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, which provides that no person shall
be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, and also
contrary to the provisions of the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, which provides that the right of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses, papers and effects against unreasonable searches
and seizures shall not be violated.
3. That the alleged acts of said Hennepin Paper Company complained

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the defendants in the suit or on the part of -all of them
jointly.Plaintiffs in error refused to obey the order of the court, and
upon the report of the examiner the judgment under review was
of by said complainant in its said original petition or bill of complaint in
said cause, and-which said complainant is endeavoring to establish in said
cause, would, if committed by said Hennepin Paper Company, be violations
of the laws of the State of Minnesota, and would subject said Hennepin
Paper Company to forfeiture of its charter and other penalties under said
laws; that to compel said Hennepin Paper Company, through this respondent as one of its officers or otherwise, to produce said books and papers for
inspection and introduction as evidence in said cause would be to compel
it to furnish evidence tending to establish that it has been guilty of such
acts and subject it to the forfeiture of its charter and other penalties aforesaid, contrary to the provisions hereinbefore mentioned of the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
4. That in addition to the matters above set forth, the purpose of the
complainant in instituting said cause and in making the requests mentioned
in said order to show cause is to obtain from said court a decree enjoining
said General Paper Company from carrying on the business for which it was
incorporated, and to enjoin the carrying out of and operation under certain
agency contracts and agreements existing between it and said Hennepin
Paper Company, on the alleged ground that said contracts and agreements
were made and are in violation of the provisions of said act of Congress;
that, said contracts and agreements are of great value, not only to said General Paper Company whose entire business practically rests upon them,
but are also of great value to and constitute valuable property rights in each
of the defendants respectively parties thereto, including the said Hennepin
Paper Company, and that such injunction from carrying out said contracts
and agreements and their virtual annulment thereby occasioned would
result in great injury, damage or loss, not only to said General Paper Company but also to said Hennepin Paper Company and to this respondent
as a stockholder ip each of said companies; and that to compel the production by said Hennepin Paper Company or said General Paper Company, or
either of them, through this respondent as such director or officer or otherwise, of said books and papers for inspection and introduction as evidence
in said cause for the purpose aforesaid, would be contrary not only to the
provisions of said Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, but also contrary to the well established rule of the common
law, as well as of equity jurisprudence, that no person will be cempelled to
discover any fact, either by producing documents or answering questions,
which may subject him, either directly or eventually, to prosecution for a
crime or to a forfeiture or penalty, or anything in the nature of a forfeiture
pr penalty.

OCTOBER.TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

entered, fining plaintiffs in error severally $100 "for their said
disobedience of the said order, said fines to be paid to the clerk
of this court for the use of the United States, as punishment for
such contempt," and sentencing them to be imprisoned until
Further answering, this respondent alleges and shows unto this court that
all the matters concerning which the questions referred to in said petition
and schedules thereto annexed were asked, and which this respondent refused to answer, as stated in said petition, came to this respondent's knowledge exclusively as president and a director of said Hennepin Paper Company, or as a director of said General Paper Company, in the conduct of
matters entrusted to him as such director or president, and which said companies, from the nature of the case, were compelled to entrust to this respondent as such director or officer, and that said Hennepin Paper Company and said General Paper Company have -objected and do object, and
this respondent has objected and does object, to said questions and to his
being required to answer the same, for reasons similar to those already set
forth in respect to the production, inspection and introduction in evidence
of the books and papers above mentioned, that is to say:
1. That the materiality of said questions in the cause above mentioned
has not been established so as to authorize a court of equity to order them
to be answered, and that the same are not material, relevant or competent
evidence in said cause.
2. That the purpose of said complainant in instituting said cause and in
asking said questions is to establish and to compel said Hennepin Paper
Company and said General Paper Company, through this respondent as
such director or officer, to furnish to said complainant evidence tending to
establish that said Hennepin Paper Company and said General Paper Company have been guilty.of certain violations of the acts of Congress above
referred to, and to subject them to the penalties for- such violations imposed by said acts, and that to compel said defendants hereinbefore named,
or either of them, through this respondent, to answer said questions would
be contrary to the provisions hereinbefore referred'to of said Fourth and
Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
3. That the alleged acts of said Hennepin Paper Cbmpany complained
of by said complainants in its original petition or bill of complaint in said
cause, and which said complainant is endeavoring to establish in said cuse,
would, if committed by it, be violations of the laws of the State of Minnesota, and would subject it to forfeiture of its charter and other penalties
under said laws; that to compel it through this respondent to answer the
questions aforesaid would be to compel it to furnish evidence tending to
establish that it has been guilty of such acts and subject it to the forfeiture
of its charter and other penalties aforesaid, contrary to the provisions hereinbefore referred to of said Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.

-NELSON.-v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

the order of the court requiring them to testify should be complied with.
The questions on the merits in these cases are the same as
those on the merits in Alexander v. United States, post, p. 117,
4. That in addition to the .matters above set forth, the purpose of the
complainant in instituting said cause and in asking the questions mentioned
in said order to show cause is to obtain a decree enjoining said General Paper
Company from carrying on the business for which it was incorporated and
to, enjoin the carrying out of and operation under certain agency contracts
and agreements existing between it and said Hennepin Paper Company,
on the alleged ground that said contracts and agreements were made and
are in violation of the provisions of said acts of Congress; that said contracts
and agreements are of great value not only to said General Paper Company,
whose entire business practically rests upon him, but are also of great value
to and constitute valuable property rights in each of the defendants respectively parties thereto, including the Hennepin Paper Company, and
that such injunction from carrying out said contracts and agreements and
their virtual annulment thereby occasioned would result in great injury,
damage and loss, not only to said Hennepin Paper Company or said General
Paper Company, and that to compel said Hennepin Paper Company or
said General Paper Company, through this respondent, to answer the questions aforesaid in aid of the purposes aforesaid would be contrary not only
to the provisions hereinbefore referred to of said Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, but also contrary to the
well established rule of the- common law as well as of equity jurisprudence,
that no person will be compelled to discover any fact, either by producing
documents or answering questions, which may subject him, either directly
or indirectly, to prosecution for a crime or to a forfeiture or penalty or anything in the nature of a forfeiture or penalty.
Further answering this respondent alleges that he ought not to be required to answer the questions or comply with the requests, or produce for
inspection by counsel for the complainant or for the purpose of being offered
in evidence the cause above referred to, the books and papers referred to in
said order to show cause and in the petition and schedules thereto annexed,
upon which said order to show cause was made, not only for the reasons
hereinabove set forth, but also for the following reasons, that is to say:
1. That one of the purposes of said complainant in instituting said cause
and in seeking to require this respondent to answer the questions and comply with the requests and produce for inspection by counsel for the complainant, and for the purpose of being offered in evidence in said cause the
books and papers aforesaid, is to establish and to compel this respondent
to furnish to said complainant evidence tending to establish that he has been
guilty of certain violations of the acts of Congress hereinbefore mentioned
and referred te, and to subject him to the penalties for such violations im-

VOL. cci-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

decided this day. In those cases, however, this court had no
jurisdiction and the appeals were dismissed. In the present
cases we have jurisdiction, Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194
U. S. 324, and directly from the Circuit Court, as questions
under the Constitution of the United States are involved.
posed by said acts, and that to compel him to answer said questions or comply with said requests or to produce for inspection or for the purpose of
being offered in evidence in said cause the said books and papers would be
contrary to the provisions hereinbefore referred to of said Fourth and
Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
2. That the alleged acts of said Hennepin Paper Company and of said
General Paper Company complained of by the complainant in its said
original petition or bill of complaint in said cause, and which said complainant is endeavoring to establish in said cause, would, if committed by
said defendant companies, involve certain violations of the laws of the
State of Minnesota by.this respondent, and would subject him to penalties
and forfeiture under said laws, and that to compel him to answer the questions or comply with the requirements aforesaid, or to produce for inspection, or for the purpose of being offered in evidence in said cause, the said
books and papers, would be to compel him to furnish evidence tending to
establish that he has been guilty of such violations of the laws of the State
of Minnesota and to subject him to the penalties and forfeitures aforesaid,
contrary to the provisions hereinbefore referred to of said Fourth and
Fifth Amendments 'to the Constitution of the United States.
3. That one of the purioses of said complainant in instituting said cause
and in seeking to require this respondent to answer the qestions and comply with the requests, and produce for inspection by counsel for the: complainant and for the purpose of being offered in evidence in said cause, the
books and papers above referred to, is to establish and compel this respondent to furnish to said complainant evidence tending to establish the
allegations of the original petition or bill of complaint in said cause, which,
if established, will result in subjecting this respondent to loss or detriment
in the nature of a penalty. or forfeiture, in that the said Hennepin"Paper
Company, of which this respondent is a stockholder as aforesaid, will be
subjected under the laws of the State of Minnesota to the forfeiture of its
charter, resulting in the virtual forfeiture of the stock of this respondent
in said defendant company, and to be the loss and forfeiture to a large
extent of the value of the interest of this respbndbnt in said corporation,
and in that the contracts made through said General Paper Company as
its sales agent by said Hennepin Paper Company under and pursuant to
the agency contracts herein referred to between said Hennepin Paper Company and said General Paper Company will be virtually annulled and the
property rights of said Hennepin Paper Company in said contracts destroyed;
that there are a large number of such contracts outstanding under which

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

In the pleadings in the original suit brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota it is
respectively alleged and denied that the defendant corporations,
of which plaintiffs in error are officers, had entered into an agreement, combination and conspiracy to control, regulate and monopolize not only the manufacture of newsprint and other
papers, but the distribution and shipment thereof through the
Middle, Southern and Western States, in violation of the Anti
Trust Act of July 2, 1890. The United States sought to establish by plaintiffs in error the truth of the charge, and the subpcena served upon them was explicit as to what was required
of them.
The subpoenas required plaintiffs in error to produce the account books, including the journals, ledgers and other books
kept by or under the control of the companies respectively, of
which plaintiffs in error were respectively officers, (a) showing
the amounts, kinds and grades of paper manufactured by the
respective companies and sold by or through the General Paper
Company, and were shipped since the fifth of July, 19(10; (b) the
prices, amounts or credits received for such paper from the paper company, between the fifth of July and the present time,
including entries, showing the manner in which the prices and
amounts received by the respective companies for any and all
large sums of money are due to said Hennepin Paper Company, all of which,
as this respondent is advised and believes, will be or may be forfeited and
lost to- said defendant and to this respondent as a stockholder therein in
case the illegal combination alleged in said original petition or bill of complaint is established by the decree or judgment in said cause; and this respondent alleges that to compel him to answer the questions and comply
with the requests and produce for inspection and for purpose of being offered
in evidence the books aid papers referred to in said order to show cause and
the petition and schedules aforesaid, and which he has declined to answer
_,and comply with or produce, if material to said cause, would be contrary
to the provisions of said Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States, and also contrary to the well established rule of the
commoh law and of equity jurisprudence, that no person will be compelled
to discover any fact or matter which may subject him to forfeiture or penalty or anything in the nature of a forfeiture or penalty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

of its products so sold have been equalized with the prices and
amounts received or realized of any and all of the other defendant companies for which the paper company is or has been the
exclusive agent; (c) the amounts and proportions of earnings
or profits of the paper company received by the respective companies from and through the paper company, either in the form
of rebates, credits, or otherwise.
Second. All contracts, agreements, writings and account
books, including journals, ledgers and other books, kept by or
under the Control of the respective companies, showing the
agreement, arrangement or understanding under and pursuantto each, and the manner in which the prices and amounts realized by the respective companies upon the various kinds and
grades of paper manufactured by it and sold by and through
the paper company, are and have been, since July 5, 1900,
equalized, or the profits arising from the sale of such paper distributed or apportioned, as between the respective companies
and other defendants manufacturing and selling through the
paper company similar kinds or grades of paper, or among all
of the defendants manufacturing similar kinds or grades of
paper, and then and there to testify and the truth to say, in a
certain matter in controversy in said court, between the United
States as complainant against the General Paper Company et al.,
defendants, on the part of the complainant.
There is no uncertainty, therefore, either in the issue or the
means of proof. In other words, the United States charges a
conspiracy upon the part of the defendant corporations for the
cessation of competition between the manufacturing defendants
by creating a general selling and distributing agent, the General
Paper Company, which restricts the output of the mills, fixes
the prices of their products, determines to whom, and the terms
and conditions upon which, such products shall be sold, into
what States and places they shall be shipped, and what publishers and customers each mill shall supply. The means of
proof of the charge are obviously the conditions of the companies before and after the formation of the paper company,.

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

its organization and the purpose of its organization, the means
of its operation, how and by what means it equalizes the output
and price of products, and the distribution of the proceeds of
their sale, and the relations and accounts between it and the
other defendant companies, and their books, accounts and minutes of proceedings.
The questions were directed to these ends. They were directed to ascertain whether the prices received for the various
paper materials were equalized, and whether during the time
the General Paper Company was the selling agent of the materials there was in existence an arrangement whereby the prices
received throigh the paper company were equalized between
the other defendant companies. The questions were put in various ways to show such equalization and the arrangements to
equalize, and to show the allowances to each mill, the fixing of
definite prices, and the distribution of the balances received
among the companies on the basis of their average daily output
of the grade of paper inquired about. And there were also
questions asked as to whether the board of directors or the executive committee of the paper company fixed the prices of
paper to be paid to each of the mills by pr through the paper
company, and the compensation to be paid to the mills making
butchers' fibre paper, because it was less profitable, and other
questions as to conversations between gentlemen representing
the different mills in regard to the organization of a corporation
to act as general selling agent in order to eliminate competition.
There were also questions as to whether the books showed the
things expressed in the other questions. The objection made
to each of the questions before the examiner was that the testimony sought was irrelevant, incompetent and immaterial, and
counsel advised the witnesses not to answer. As to the books
and papers the following is a sample of the proceedings:
"Q. Do the books, journals or ledgers of the Hennepin Paper
Company show any agreement or arrangement or understanding under and pursuant to which and the manner in which the
prices and amounts realized by the Hennepin Paper Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

201

U.

S.

upon various grades of paper manufactured by it and sold by
or through the defendant the General Paper Company, are and
have been, since the 5th day of July, 1900, equalized or the
profits arising from the sale of such paper distributed or apportioned as between the defendants?
"MR. FLANDERS: All objections renewed, and I give the witness the same advice.
"(No answer.)
"Q. Do you refuse, Mr. Nelson, to produce the books?
"MR.FLANDERS: As I said before, you may assume for the
purposes of these questions that the books and all the papers
called for are present in court, but on behalf of the Hennepin
Paper Company and the witness and the General Paper .Company I decline to submit those to the inspection of the Government counsel.
"MR. KELLOGG: Or to allow them or any part of them to be
put in evidence, Mr. Flanders?
"MR.

FLANDERS:

Yes."

Other facts will appear in the opinion.
Mr. James G. Flanders, with whom Mr. Charles F. Fawsett
and Mr. William Brace were on the brief, for plaintiffs inerror
in these cases and for appellants in Nos. 381, 382, 383, 384, and
385 argued simultaneously herewith.1
The evidence, documentary .and oral, which the witnesses
were required to produce was not shown to be material to
plaintiff's case.
The documentary evidence called for is the property of the
General Paper Company or some other of the defendant corporations. The proceeding, therefore, isa method of compelling. the production of books and documents belonging to parties to the suit, and it is governed by the rules prescribed for
the protection of parties from whom a discovery is demanded.
The right of a plaintiff in equity to the benefit of a defendant's
oath is limited to a discovery of such material facts as relate
I Alexander v. United States, post, p. 117.

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

to the plaintiff's case and does not extend to a discovery of the
manner in which, or of the evidence by means of which, the defendant's case is to be established. 1 Daniell's Ch. P1. & Pr. 5
Am. ed. *579, 580; Wigram's Law of Discovery, 1st Am. ed.
15; Story's Eq. P1. §§ 565, 568.
The plaintiff must show by clear averment the materiality
of the documents sought to be disclosed. This rule applies to
proceedings under a statute to compel production upon or in
preparation for trial. 23 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 176;
Owhyee L. & I. Co. v. Tautphaus, 109 Fed. Rep. 547; Condict
v. Wood, 25 N. J. L..319; Bank v. M'ansfield, 48 Illinois, 494;
Lester v. People, 150 Illinois, 408; Bentley v. People, 104 Ill.
App. 353; Wynn v. Taylor, 109 Ill. App. 603; Walsh v. Press
Co., 48 App. Div. N. Y. 333; S. F. Copper M. & R. Co. v.
Humphrey, 111 Fed. Rep. 772; Eschbach v. Lightner, 34 Maryland, 528, 533; Jenkins v. Bennett, 40 S. Car. 393, 400; Berry
v. Matthews, 7 Georgia, 457, 462, 463.
A plaintiff's right to any compulsory production of books is
strictly limited to such documents as contain evidence relevant
to his case. His right to inspect is never larger than his right
to read in evidence. The defendant is not compelled to discover his evidence if it cannot tend to establish affirmatively
the case of the plaintiff. Hare on Discovery, 187, 198; Compton v. Earl Gray, 1 Y. & J. 154; Bolton v. Liverpool, 3 Sim. 489;
S. C., 1'My. & K.; Harris v. Harris,3 Hare, 450; Van Kleeck
v. Re/. Dutch Ch., 6 Paige, 600; S. C., 20 Wend. 458.
Before the plaintiff is entitled to the production of a given
document he must show aliunde that its contents are such as
to entitle him to read it in evidence. He cannot compel production in order to prove that he is entitled to production.
Wigram's Law of Discovery, §293; Story v. Lennox, 1 Myl. &
Cr. 534; Langdell on Eq. P1. § 164; Bligh v. Benson 7 Price,
205; Stroud v. beacon, 1 Vesey, 27; Barnett v. Noble, 1 Jacob
& W. 227.
Any party who is required to produce his books of account
or other documents, may seal such portions thereof as he swears

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

201 U. S.

contain nothing relating to the purposes of the discovery sought,
and his affidavit that the parts so sealed do not relate to the
matters in litigation is sufficient protection. 23 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 182; 2 Wait's Pr. 548; Titus v. Cortelyou, 1 Barb.
444; Robbins v. Davis, 1 Blatch. 238, 242; Campbell v. French,
2 Cox Ch. Cas. 286; Girardv. Penswick, 1 Wilson Ch. 222; Pynchon v. Day, 118 Illinois, 9:
Under Rev. Stat. § 724 it has been held that production will
only be ordered where a discovery would be decreed under the
same circumstances in chancery. Jacques v. Collins, 2 Blatch.
23. See Caspary v. Carter, 84 Fed. Rep. 416; Birchofisheim v.
Brown, 29 Fed. Rep. 341; Ryder v. Bateman, 93 Fed. Rep. 31;
Bloede Co. v. Bancroft & Sons Co., 98 Fed. Rep. 175; Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616.
The doctrine is not confined to documentary evidence. It
applies also to the case of oral testimony. The materiality of
any question must be made to appear before a witness can be
required to answer it and before he can be adjudged gu'ilty of a
contempt of court for a refusal to answer. The leading case is
In re William Judson, 3 Blatch. 148. See also In re Allis, 44
Fed. Rep. 216; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447.
The evidence, documentary and oral, required to be produced, if material to the plaintiff's case, is in the nature of incriminating evidence which the witnesses and the defendants
are privileged from furnishing to the plaintiff under the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments of the Federal Constitution and the
well recognized principles of equity procedure.
The discovery which by the orders appealed from the witnesses are required to make, might also tend to subject them
to penalties and forfeitures under the laws of the State of Wisconsin. Wisconsin Statutes (1898), §§ 1747e, 1747h; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S.547; United States v. Saline Bank,
1 Pet. 100.
itis not within the province of Congress to suspend the operation. of these state statutes or to interfere with their enforce-

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ment in their relation to trade within the State, and therefore
the immunity clause would be ineffectual to relieve the appellants against liability under the state law.
The jurisdiction of state authority over trade within the State
is as exclusive and unqualified as the jurisdiction of Congress
over trade between the States. Addyston Pipe Co. v. United
States, 175 U. S.211 (where injunction previously issued was
modified to make it conform to this rul6); Allen v. Pullman Co.,
191 U. S. 171; National -Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S.
115.
It is the settled law of this court that the Fifth Amendment
has no application to state courts and their proceedings under
state laws. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Brown
v. Walker, 161 U. S.591, distinguished.
These Amendments to the Constitution were merely declaratory of the equity and common law rules of evidence, and it
was firmly settled by them at the time of the adoption of the
Amendments that no person could be compelled to discover any
fact, either by producing documents or answering questions,
which might subject him either directly or eventually to liability to a penalty or forfeiture, or anything in the nature of a
penalty or forfeiture. 1 Daniell's Chancery Pleading & Practice, 5th Am. ed. * 562, 563; 2 Story's Eq. Jur. §1494; 1 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. 202; Livingston v. Harris,.3Paige, 527; aff'd 11
Wend. 329; Northrop v. Hatch, 6 Connecticut, 361, 363; Livingston v. Tompkins, 4 Johns. Ch. 432, and cases there cited;
Vanderveer v. Holcomb, 17 N. J. Eq. 91; United States v. National Lead Co., 75 Fed. Rep. 94; Newgold v. American Electrical &c. Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 341; United States v. Boyd, 116
U. S.631.
The consequences which must result to the appellants from
the passing of the decree prayed for in the complaint are in the
nature of a forfeiture. They should not be required to furnish
the evidence to subject them to such forfeiture. 13 Am. &
Eng. Ency. of Law, 54.
The witnesses were entitled to decline to answer not only on

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

201 U. S.

the ground of personal privilege, but also on the ground that
their answers would be the answers of the General Paper Company and the other defendants whose officers and directors they
were, and might tend to subject said defendants to fines,_ penalties and forfeitures and to loss or damage in the nature of a
forfeiture. A corporation is a person and as such entitled to
the privileges and immunities of persons. Covington Turnpike
Co. v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 578. It performs its functions only
through its officers and agents and they cannot be compelled
to testify. State v. Simmons Hardware Co., 15 L. R. A. 676;
Davis v. Lincoln Natl. Bank, 4 N. Y. Supp. 373; Bank of Oldtown v. Houlton, 21 'Maine, 502.
The orders are appealable under the judiciary act of March 3,
:1891, and under the act of February 11, 1903, -to expedite the
determination of suits in equity under the Anti Trust Act and
the Interstate Commerce Act.
In appealing from the order of the Circuit Court appellants
have followed the practice indicated in the two cases of Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, and Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25. In each
case it was held that the application by the Interstate Commerce Commission made a "case" and that the order denying
the application was a final order and therefore appealable.
The two cases cited differ from the present ones.only in this:
that no action was there pending in any Circuit Court to which
the proceedings to compel the testimony of witnesses and the
production of books and papers could be said to be ancillary.
Otherwise, however, the proceeding itself was in every substantial' respect the same as that adopted in the present cases.
I The words "final decree" have been given a liberal and reasonable construction as respects the right of appeal. Eau
Claire v. Payson, 107 Fed. Rep. 552.
There may be more than one final order and more than one
appeal in the same suit. Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527;
Tuttle v. Claflin, 88 Fed. Rep. 122; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S.

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

These proceedings are not properly incidental, but collateral,
having a distinct and independent character. They belong to
the class known as ancillary, in which the form is determined
by the circumstances of each case. So far as the question of
appealability goes, they are subject to the same rules as original
and independent actions. Krippendorj v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276,
280, 287; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450, 460; Christmas v.
Russell, 14 Wall. 69, 80; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47, 50;
Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S. 61, 64; Carey v. Houston &c. Ry.
Co., 161 U. S. 115, 126; Pope v. Louisville &c. Ry. Co., 173
U. S. 573.
The present proceedings have all the distinguishing characteristics of any suit in equity or action at law.
The test of finality as to 'any particular order, under the
decisions of this court, is this: An order, to be appealable,
or final for the purposes of appeal, must be conclusive upon the
merits and must leave the matter in controversy in such a condition that if there be an affirmance here the court will have
nothing to do but to execute the orderdt has already entered.
Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U. S. 3; St. L. &c. R. Co. v. Southern
Expr. Co., 108 U. S. 24; Winthrop I. Co. v. Meeker, 109 U. S.
180; Mower v. Fletcher, 114 U. S. 127; Trustees v. Greenough,
105 U. S. 527.
° It has been held that the final order or decree in ancillary proceedings is governed by the same rules, in respect of appeals to
the Supreme Court, as the decree in the principal suit. Pope
v. Louisville &c. Ry. Co., 173 U. S. 573; Carey v. Houston &c.
Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 115; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S. 47.
If, however, there is any question whether the act of February 11, 1903, applies to appeals in such cases as the present,
there can be no doubt of the right of appellants'to obtain a review of the orders appealed from by direct appeal to the Supreme Court under the provisions of section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891. Loeb v. Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472;
W. U. Tel. Co. v. A. A. R. R. Co., 178 U. S. 239; Penn. Mut.
L. Ins. Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

201 U. S.

Mr. Frank B. Kellogg and Mr. James M. Beck, Special Assistants io the Attorney General, with whom The Attorney General was on the brief, for the United States in these cases and
in Nos. 381, 382, 383, 384 and 385:
Whether finally admissible or not, the evidence should be
given and received before the examiner, inasmuch as all questions of materiality, relevancy and competency must be left
primarily for determination upon final hearing by the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota where the
cause is pending, and ultimately for decision by this court when
the suit shall be considered here on appeal. Blease v. Garlington, 92 U. S. 1.
Had the witnesses, instead of appealing from the order and
taking a writ of error from the judgment of contempt, sued out
a writ of habeas corpus, this court would have had jurisdiction
on appeal from a judgment discharging the writ. Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651; Homer v. United States, 146 U. S. 120.
And it is only the question of the validity of the judgment overruling their plea under the Constitution that can be considered.
In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164; In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 552. A
writ of error from the judgment of contempt will bring up no
other question. Bessette v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324.
The rule in Blease v. Garlingtonhas been followed in numerous cases. In re Allis, 44 Fed. Rep. 216, contra, is not in point,
and it does not appear that Blease v. Garlington was called to
the attention of the judge deciding the case.
, The evidence was material and admissible. Where the existence of the books and papers desired is established, the ability
to produce them is shown, and the books and papers are apparently important and material to the case of the moving party,
their production will be required. It is obviously impossible
in applications of this character to determine the materiality
of all of the contents of the books and papers in advance.
United States v. Babcock, Fed. Cas. No. 14,484; Coit v. North
Carolina, Gold &c. Co., 9 Fed. Rep. 577.
There is no doubt that as a witness a party can be compelled

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

by a subpcena duces tecum to produce books, documents and
papers in his possession in the same manner as any other ivitness. Bischoffsheim v. Brown, 29 Fed. Rep. 341, 343. And
the officers of a corporation may be required as witnesses to
produce its books when the books are necessary evidence.
Wertheim v. Continental Ry. & Trust Co., 15 Fed. Rep. 716;
Johnson Steel Street-rail Co. v. North Branch Steel Co., 48 Fed.
Rep. 196; Edison Electric Light Co. v. U. S. Electric Ltg. Co.,
44 Fed. Rep. 294; S.C., 45 Fed. Rep. 55; Johnson Co. v. North
Branch Co., 48 Fed. Rep. 191.
Under issues of the character raised in this cause, the entire
manner of conducting the business of the General Paper Company is competent and material evidence. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S.25.
The claim of privilege is solely a personal one. Wigmore on
Evidence, §§ 2195-2210; Brown v. Walker, i61 U. S.597.
These witnesses cannot claim the privilege of silence either
under the general principles of common law and equity jurisprudence and procedure, or under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments.
It is true that under the ancient practice in actions at common law a party might not compel his opponent to furnish evidence as a witness. His only remedy was by way of a bill
of discovery in equity. Wigmore on Evidence, §§ 2217,
2218. This limitation, however, never existed in equity.
1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 15th ed. § 361; 1 Daniells on Ch.Prac.
5th ed. 885, note 6; Adams on Equity, 7th ed. 36; Wigmore on
Evidence, §§ 2218, 2219, pp. 3012, 3014-3016.
A party will be compelled to make a disclosure of all facts
within his knowledge, or books and documents in his possession,
which tend either to establish his opponent's case or to refute
the position which he. himself takes. Bustaes v. White, Eng.
Law Rep. Q. B. Div. 423; Atty. Gen. v. Emerson and another,
Law Rep. 10 Q. B. Div. 191; Arnold v. Pawtuxet Valley Water
Co., 18 R. I. 189.
Modern legislation has made the bill of discovery an unnec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for the United States.

201 U. S.

essary adjunct even in actions at law. Material evidence may
now be required of a party in such actions, without resorting
to this cumbersome proceeding. 1 Pomeroy on Eq. Jur. 2d
ed. § 193; Wigmore on Evidence, §2219; 14 and 15 Victoria,
c. 99, §6; Rev. Stat. of Wisconsin (1898), § 4183, as amended
by c. 244, Laws of 1904; Rev. Stat. § 858.
The guaranty of the Fif.th Amendment that no person shall
be compelled in a criminal case to be a witness against himself
does not protect corporations. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591;
Interstate Com. Com. v. Baird, 194 U. S.25; Morgan v. Halberstadt, 60 Fed. Rep. 592; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. People, 195 Illinois, 430; State v. Jack, 69 Kansas, 387.
In. so far as the penalty or forfeiture may be criminal in its
character the guaranty of the Fifth Amendment applies, and
is entirely saved by the immunity statute; in so far as the penalty or forfeiture is other than criminal, in so far as it involves
the loss or forfeiture of the claim to a continued violation of
the laws of the land, there is no principle either of constitutionial law or of equity jurisprudence which may be invoked to
relieve against it.
It was settled at an early date that pecuniary loss to the witness was not one of the penalties or forfeitures intended to be
protected against by the Constitution. See opinion- of Chief
Justice Shaw in Bull 'v. Loveland, 10 Pick. 9, which has been
followed uniformly by all of the courts in the United States.
1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 15th ed. § 452; Lowney v. Perham,
20 Maine, 240; Ward v. Sharp, 15 Vermont, 115; Harper v.
Borough, 6 Ired. 30; Robinson v. Neal, 21 Kentucky, 212.
It is also held that a penalty of forfeiture must be penal in its
nature, as distinguished from pecuniary loss suffered as a consegquence of civil liability. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616; Lees v. United States, 150 U. S.476; Huntington,v. Attrill,
146 U. S.657; Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S.148; City of Atlanta v.
Chattanooga Foundry & Pipe Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 900; State v.
Jack, 69 Kansas, 387; State v. Standard Oil Co., 61 Nebraska,
28; Southern Ry. Co. v. Bush, 122 Alabama, 470; Levy v. Supe-

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rior Court, 105 California, 600; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U..S.
449; 3 Wigmore on Evidence, § 256; 2 Beach on Private Corporations, § 840.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA,

after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
PIaintiffs in error urge three main contentions, which we will
consider in their order.
I. That the evidence, documentary and oral, which the witnesses were required to produce, was. not shown to be material
•to plaintiff's case.
1. There are three answers to this contention.. (1) The evidence is clearly material. The charge of the bill is that the
defendant manufacturing corporations entered into a conspiracy and combination in violation of the act of July 2, 1890, to
suppress competition between themselves, and that they accomplished this purpose by organizing the General Paper Company,
and gave it certain controlling powers over the output of the
mills and the prices and distribution of their products.
Before the application to the court for the orders under review there were certain facts established. It was established
that in the fall of 1889 and the spring of 1900 there were preliminary meetings of the parties to ultimately form the paper
company, and that it was subsequently formed by those representing the manufacturing companies, who subscribed for the
stock. In July, 1900, the corporations as represented iji the
paper company, fourteen in all, entered into contracts with it,
making it theii exclusive selling agent; that each constituent
manufacturing company was represented by one of its principal
officers upon the board of directors of the paper company, and
the number of directors have been increased as other corporations have made the paper company their selling agent. A
table of the constituent companies was given and the.times the
companies became members of the paper company. And it was
established that there was an executive committee, comprised

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

substantially of the same persons who constituted the board of
directors, and that the paper company had books and records
containing the minutes of the meetings of stockholders, directors and the executive committee, and that the treasurers and
sales agents had presented reports to the stockholders, directors
and executive committee. It was stipulated that all the subscriptions to stock of the paper company were for the benefit of
some paper manufacturing company and in its name, that it
was the beneficial owner thereof, and that the dividends declared thereon were its property; that said stock was from time
to time allotted to such corporations as made contracts with the
paper company, making it their exclusive selling agent upon the
basis of estimated relative productions of paper. A list of the
individuals to whom stock was issued, the names of the corporations represented by them, and the days of the issuances of
the stock were given.
The questions were framed to prove the combination charged
in the bill, and the powers and operation of the General Paper
Company and the relations of the other companies to it. What
the answers will show we do not know, nor what the books and
documents will disclose. The organization of the paper company had a purpose, and whether it was a legal or illegal instrument for competing companies to use we do not have now
to determine. By the admissions of the answers the paper
company entered into contracts with those companies, became
their selling agent, and was entitled to a certain percentage of
the sales. Presumably it exercised its powers, made sales and
received profits. In all that it did the manufacturing corporations were interested; they owned its stock, were entitled to its
dividends. This we may admit for argument's sake, not prejudging in any way, may be consistent with continued competition between the companies, but it may be otherwise.. At any
rate, the manner in which the paper company executed its functions may be links in the evidence adduced by the United States,
and this is enough to establish-the materiality of the evidence.
It must not be overlooked that not only an inspection of the

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

books was refused, but questions directed to ascertain the contents of the books were objected to, not answered. We have
given one illustration; we will give another. Counsel for defendant corporations stated at the examination: "That for the
purpose of any question the Government counsel see fit to ask
-it may be assumed that all the books, papers and documents"
described in the subpcena "are present here in court, and we
decline to submit them to the inspection of the Government
.counsel." The following then took place:
"Q. State whether those books show the amounts, kinds or
grades of paper manufactured by the defendant Northwest Paper Company and sold by or thirough the defendant General
Paper Company as the exclusive sales agent of the defendant

Northwest Paper Company since the 8th day of April, 1902, or
since about the 1st of May, 1902, if that is the date the business
commenced.
"Same objections by defendants, and the witness given the
same advice.
"Q. You decline to answer?
"A. I decline on advice of attorney.
"Q. Do the books also show where the said paper so manufactured was sold and into what States and Territories it was
shipped since the 8th day of April, 1902, or the 1st day of May,
1902?

I wish to make the same objections, and
I give the witness the same advice.
"A. Same answer."
And counsel for the United States, not only as to the matters
expressed in the foregoing questions, but as to other matters
which the bill charged against the companies, and which had
been inquired about, said, that he desired to use the books and
offer them in evidence to show such m'atters. An inspection
of the books was refused, and all evidence of their contents
withheld.
Necessarily the books contained the information. The paper
company was the selling agent of the Northwest Paper Com"MR.

FLANDERS:

VOL. CCI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

pany and must hav6 kept an account of its sales and into what
States the paper of the company- was"shipped and sold. -Such
accounts are material and relevant to complainant's case. They
may or may not, in connection with other evidence, sustain the

charge of the.United States, but they are elements in the proof,
having tendency enough to sustain the charge to be considered
material.
2. The claim of immateriality of the testimony cannot avail
plaintiffs against the orders of the Circuit Court. The procedure before an examiner and his powers are explained in Blease
v. Garlington, 92 U. S. 1. It is there said: "The examiner before whom the witnesses are orally examined is required to note
exceptions; but he cannot decide upon their validity. He must
take down all the examination in writing, and send it to the
court with the objections noted. So, too, when depositions are
taken according to the acts of Congress or otherwise, under
the rules, exceptions to the testimony may be noted by the
officer taking the deposition, but he is not permitted to decide
upon them; and when the testimony, as reduced to writing by
the examiner, or the deposition, is filed in court, further exceptions may be there taken. Thus both the exceptions and the
testimony objected to are all before the court below, and come
here upon the appeal as part of the record and proceedings
there."
And an application to a court to compel the delivery of testimony in aid of the examination does not change the rule.
The testimony is taken to be submitted to the court where the
suit is pending and all questions upon the evidence, its materiality and sufficiency, are to be determined by it and after it by
an appellate court. Even if the trial court permit the examination of witnesses orally in open court upon the hearing in
cases in equity, as further said in Blease v. Garlington, the testimony must be taken" down or its substance stated in writing
and made part of the record, or it will only be disregarded here
on an appeal. So, too, if testimony is objected to and ruled out,
it must still be sent here with the record subject to the obje.-

NELSON v. UNITED STATES.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, or the ruling will not be considered by us." Blease v.
Garlington has been applied at Circuit in a number of
1
cases.
3. These writs of error are not prosecuted by the parties in the
original suit, but by witnesses, to review a judgment of contempt against them for disobeying orders to testify. Being
witnesses merely, it is not open to them to make objections to
the testimony. The tendency or effect of the testimony on the
issues between the parties is no concern of theirs. The basis
of their privilege is different from that andentirely personal, as
we shall presently see.
II. That the documentary evidence called for was not shown
to be in the possession or under the control of the witnesses.
This contention is untenable. The ground of it is that the possession of the witnesses was not personal, but was that of the
respective corporations of which they were officers. Granting
this to be so and that the witnesses could have set up whatever
privileges the corporations had, nevertheless they h,t the custody (actual possession) of the books and were summoned from
necessity as representing the corporations. It is hardly necessary to observe that the witnesses had all the possession human
beings could have had or can have, and if the objection is to
prevail the books of a corporation can be withdrawn from the
reach of compulsory process.
It is as useless as attemlting to demonstrate that twice two
make four, to say that a corporation can have possession*of
nothing except by the human beings who are its officers, and
it'is to them, not the intangible being they represent and act-for,
1 Thomson-Houston Elec. Co. v. Jeffrey Mfg. Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 614;
Maxim-Nordenfelt Guns & Am. Co., Ltd., v. Colt's Patent Firearms Mfg.
Co., 103 Fed. Rep. 39; Parisian.Comb. Co. v. Eschwege, 92 Fed. Rep. 721;
Fayerweather v. Ritch, 89 Fed. Rep. 529; Appleton v. Ecaubert, 45 Fed. Rep..
281; Edison Elec. Lt. Co. v. U. S. Elec. Ltg. Co., 45 Fedj Rep. 55, 59; Johnson Steel Street Rail Co. v. North Bradrch Steel Co.,.48 Fed. Rep. 196; Adee
v. J. L. Mott Iron Works, 46 Fed. Rep. 39; Lloyd v. Pennhie, 50 Fed.'Rep. 4;
Broum v. Rorster, 113 Fed. Rep. 20; MacWilliam v. Conn. Web. Co., 119
Fed. Rep. 509; Whitehead .& Hoag Co. v. O'Callahan, 139 Fed. Rep. 243.

OCTOBEP TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

that the law directs its process of subpcena and must procure
its evidence.
III. That the evidence, documentary and oral, required to be
produced, was in the nature of incriminating evidence which the
witnesses and the defendants are privileged from furnishiig to
the plaintiff under the provisions of the Federal Constitution
and the well recognized principles of equity procedure.
This contention asserts rights personal to the plaintiffs and
rights of the corporation defendants in the suit. The basis of
both rights is the protection of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
The argument submitted is substantially the same as that
made by appellants in Hale v. Henkel and McAlister v. Henkel.
It is insisted that the immunity I given by .the act of February 25, 1903, is not as broad as the penalties and forfeitures to
which the plaintiffs in error or the corporations of which they
are officers will be subjected. If the immunity, it is urged, protects from the penalties of the Anti Trust Act of 1890 it does not
protect, nor has Congress the power to protect, from the penalties of the Minnesota laws, which make criminal a combination
and conspiracy in restraint of trade and subject to forfeiture
the charters of corporations who become parties to such combination and conspiracy. Sections 6955, 6956, 5962, Statutes of
Minnesota, 1894.
The extent of the immunity and its application to corporations was considered in Hale v. Henkel and McAlister v. Henkel,
and decided adversely to the contention of plaintiffs in error.
Judgment affirmed.
I "Provided, that no person shall be prosecuted or be subjected to any
'penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction, matter, or thing
concerning which he may testify or produce evidence, documentary or
otherwise, in any proceeding, suit or prosecution under said acts: Provided
further, that no person so testifying. shall be exempt from prosecution or
punishment for perjury committed in so testifying." Act February 25,
1903.; Comp. Stats. Sup. 1903, pp. 366, 367.

