CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201 U. S.

529

Syllabus.

Co. v. Drainage Com'rs, the judgment of the Supreme Court
must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR.' JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the judgment, upon the
authority of Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

and MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, dissent.

CLEVELANIJ v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
-

No. 183.

Argued Febuary 27, 28, 1906.-Decided' April 9,1906.

In construing municipal ordinances dealing with important matters such
as 'extensions of street railw"ay franchises it may reasonably be presuned
that no provision escaped attention or was misunderstood;- and, while a
mistake might occur in one ordinance, it will not be supposed that: the
mistake occurred in four ordinances dealing, with the same subject.
Ordinances granting an extension to a consolidated street railway corporation, possessing franchises expiring at different times, on conditions'
involving great expense to the corporation and resulting in substan-"
tial benefits to the public as to transfers for single fares and relating to the entire, system as well as the extensions granted, and providing
that the right granted terminate with the then existing grants of the
main line at a specified date later than that of- termination of some of
the franchises, amount, on the acceptance by the company and compliance with the conditions, to a contract within the protection of the
impairment clause of the Constitution extending the iarious franchises
to that date; the period, in this case of ,four year , not being an unreasonable one in view of the substantial benefits accruing to the public.
Cleveland v. Cleveland City Railway Co., 194 U. S. 517, followed as to the
power of the city council of Cleveland to pass ordinances diminishing
the rate of fare on street railways in view of the contracts contained- in
ordinances heretofore passed in regard to street railways.

VOL. cci-34

530

.

OCTOBER TERM, -1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

BILL in equity to ,enjoin the enforcement of an ordinance of
the city of Cleveland, passed January 11, 1904, purporting. to.
grant to the Forest City Railway Company the' right to maintain and operate a street railroad upon streets alleged to be
covered by grants to the appellee not yet expired and which,
it iscontended, constitute contracts, the obligation "of which
is impaired by the ordinance of January 11, 1904, in violation'
of the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
A preliminary' injunction was granted, which, upon final
hearing, was made perpetual. 135 Fed. Rep. 368. 'And'AhiS'
appeal was taken. The case was heard upon bill 'and answer,
and an outline of the facts is as follows:
The Cleveland Electric Railway Company is a consolidated
company, organized under the laws of Ohio in 1893. None of
its constituent companies had- at that time any rights in 'the
streete in controversy. In 1903 the company acquired by purchase the 'lines of railway and the rights, privileges and franchises of the Cleveland City Railway Company. The latter
company was constituted of the Woodland Avenue and West
Side Street Railway Company and the Cleveland City Cable
Railway Company, each of these companies'being itself a con-:- .
solidated company.
The Woodland Avenue Railway Company, before its consolidation with the West Side Street Railroad -Cmpany, was the
successor by purchase in 1885 of the Kinsman Street Railroad.
Company, its rights, property and' franchises, which, by the
terms of the consolidation of the Woodland Avenue and West
Side Companies in 1886, vested in 'the Woodland Avenue and
West Side Railroad Company.
The rights, privileges and.franchises of the Kinsman Street
Railroad were derived from the city by an ordinance dated
August 25, 1879, which granted to the company and to its successors and assigns the 'right to maintain and operate a double
track street railroad in the city of Cleveland, "commencing on
Superior street at the intersection of Water' street, thence
through Superior street and around the southwest corner of

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
20I U. S.

531

Statement of the Case.

Monumental square to Ontario street; thence thr6ugh Ontario
street to and through a portion of Broadway and Woodland
avenue (formerly Kinsman street); thence through said Wood,
land avenue to Madison avenue."
It was provided that "the authority, privileges and franchises ....
granted and renewed to said company, its
successors and assigns," should continue for a period of twentyfive years from the twentieth day of September, 1879. The
expiration of the grant was, therefore, fixed at September 20,
1904. The ordinance was accepted by the Kinsman Company.
On May 14, 1883, the city passed an ordinance entitled "An
ordinance to permit the Woodland Avenue Railway Company
to extend'its lines of railway on Woodland avenue from .the
Cleveland and Pittsburgh Crossing to Corwin street." The
ordinance was accepted and- the line built as an extension of
the -tracks built by the Kinsman Company.
Prior to the year 1885 the two companies which formed the
Woodland avenue and West Side Street Railroad Company
wefe independent lines, with independent franchises from the
city, one operating on the west side of Cuyahoga river, the
other upon the east side and runningto the southeasterly portion of the city. There Was no interchange. of traffic between
them, and, at'the time of the consolidation, the West Side Company had the right by ordinance from the city to operate its
road for twenty-five years from February, 1883, namely to
February, 1908.
Under the laws of Ohio. the city Council had the power to
fix the .terms and conditions upon which railways might be
consolidated, and in pursuance of the statute the 'companies
notified the council of their proposed consolidation, and thereupon the council passed an ordinance February 1, 188 , giving
the consent of the city to the consolidation upon the following
conditions: .
"The said consolidated company is to carry passengers
through, without change of cars, by running of the cars through
from-the workhouse on the line of the Woodland Avenue Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

way Company. to the point on the West Side Railroad where
Gordon avenue crosses Lorain street; and, when practicable
in the judgment of the council, to do likewise on the branches
of the consolidated lines; and that for a single fare from any
point to any point on the lines and branches of the consolidated
road no greater charge than five cents shall be collected; and
that tickets at the rate of eleven for fifty cents or twenty-two
for one dollar shall at. all. times be kept for sale on cars by
conductors."
It was provided that the ordinance should take effect after
its legal publication and the filing of the, written acceptance by
the companies of the terms thereof. The written acceptance
wgs fied and the terms of the ordinance complied with.
The line fixed in the ordinance covers the lines of the Kinsman Street Railroad Company and the lines referred to in the
ordinance of January 11, 1904, sought to be enjoined.
No date for the expiration of the grant was fixed, but it was
provided that the consolidated company should be liable to all
the liabilities, conditions and penalties to which the several
companies were liable.
. On April 8, 1887, an ordinance was passed authorizing the
consolidated company to lay an additional track on Franklin
avenue between Pearl street and the westerly line of Franklin
circle, and to occupy and. operate said extension as therein
provided, but on the express condition that no increase of fare
should be charged by said railroad company or any part of its
main line or said extension, and so that but one fare, not to
exceed five cents, should be charged between any points on said
company's main line or extensions. The ordinance .contained
the following provision: f' and the grant here granted shall terminate with the present grant of the main line, to wit, tenth day
of February, 1908." And it is alleged that the "main line".'
referred to includes the line operated on Woodland avenue
(formerly Kinsman street) and originally granted to the Kinsman Street Railroad Company by the ordinance of August,
1879.

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201 -U. S.

533

Statement of the Case.

On August 12, 1887, an ordinance was passed authorizing
the consolidated company to lay and extend a track in Franklin
avenue, from Kentucky street to Waverly avenue. In this
ordinance there was a prohibition of increase of fare 'between
any points on said company's main line or extension," and that
the right granted should "terminate with the present grant of
the main line, to wit, on the tenth day of February, 1908."
Prior to March, 1889, the lines of the railway of the Woodland,Avenue and West Side Street Railway Company were
operated by horse power, and there came a demand for more
rapid means of- transit afforded by electrical equipment, and
on March 22, 1889, and, it is alleged, to secure such means of
transit, the city granted to the consolidated company the right
to use electricity in operating its entire line of street railroad, as
the same then existed, with any and all extensions that might
thereafter be made thereto. It was- provided that the grant
should be in force from the time of its legal publicationand
written acceptance by the company. The ordinance recited
that "said company shall have the right to maintain and operate its present line and any and all extensions until the expiration of the present grant of said comipany, to wit, the tenth
of February, 1908. ' . The written acceptance was filed, and,
it is alleged, through and by compliance with its terms the
consolidated company, and the Cleveland Electric Railway
Company, as its successor, acquired the absolute right by contract to continue to maintain and operate its line of road as it
then existed and all extensions thereof up to the tenth day of
February, 1908. This is denied. It is alleged that the appellee expended not less. than the sum of $700,000 in equipping
its road with electricity as a motive power.
On June 20, 1892, the city passed an ordinance authorizing
the consolidated company to lay an additional track on Kinsman street, thereby making its line on said street a doubletrack railway. The point of beginning was designated to be
"at the intersection of its main tracks." There was a provision for termination on the tenth of February, 1908, as in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

201 U. S.

other brdinances. And there was the same provision in an
ordinance passed August 1, 1892, authorizing an extension of
tracks on Lorain street. Again, in an ordinance of the twentysecond of August, authorizing the construction and maintenance of a suitable and necessary line of feed wires upon certain streets. An ordinance of October 17, 1892, empowering
the company to lay an additional track on Woodland avenue
between certain streets, contained the same provision. On
July 17,. 1893, an ordinance was passed authorizing the Cleveland City Railway Company, which had become the owner of
the rights of the Woodland Avenue and West Side Street Railroad Company, to lay an additional track upon South Woodland avenue. This ordinance contained a provision as to the
operation of the tracks in connection with the other lines, the'
kind and number of cars to be used and the manner of running
and intervals of time to be run, and the sprinkling of tracks.
The grant was to remain in force until the twenty-sixth of January, 1910. February 19,. 1894, an ordinance was passed
granting permission to the Cleveland Electric. Railway and the
Cleveland City Railway Company to build a cross-town road
on Willson avenue. It was provided that. the grant was to
continue in force until the first day of July, 1914.
Of this ordinance the bill alleges:
"This grant shall be in force until the first day of July, 1914.
"Your orator shows that the grant under which the Cleveland Electric Railway Company was, at the time of the passage
of the last-mentioned ordinance, operating, as to several of its
lines, expires on the first of July, 1914, and that the obligations
imposed upon the Cleveland City Railway Company by virtueof said ordinance, in this paragraph set forth, are continuing
obligations, requiring of your orator the performance of all and
singular the conditions of said ordinance, including the issuing
of transfers from its other lines and accepting transfers from
its-said Willson avenue line, up to the first day of July, 1914,
whereby your orator submits that the council thereby not only
granted but required of said the Cleveland City Railway Coin-

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201 U, S.

535

Argument for Appelants.

pany the operation of its entire system of railway up to the
first day of July,- 1914.
"Your orator further shows that Willson avenue and the
lines of road therein constructed are intersected by both Kinsman street and Woodland avenue (formerly Kinsman street).
Mr.. Newton D. Baker and Mr. D. C. Westenhaver for appellants:
A course of procedure imposed by statute for the exercise
of powers conferred by the- State is of the substance of the
powers themselves when those 'powers relate to the transactions of a municipal corporation in its public, as distinguished
from its private or proprietary character. 1 Dillon Mun. Corp.

§ 307.
A municipal corporation possesses and can exercise the following powers-and no others. First, those granted in express
words; second, those necessarily or fairly implied in or incident
to the powers expressly granted; third, those essential to
the declared objects and purposes of the corporation'not
simply onvenient but indispensable. 1 Dillon Mun. Corp.
§ 89.
-Its powers are strictly limited. Bloom V. Xenia, 32 Ohio St.
461, '465;. Ravenna v. Penn. Co., 45 Ohio'St. 118.
The contract right claimed by the plaintiff is a franchise.
Franchises are special privileges conferred by the government
on individuals but which do not belong to the citizens of a
country generally of common right. Peoples Railroadv. Memphis R. R., 10 Wall. 308; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters,
519; State ex rel. v. The Cincinnati Gas Co., I8 Ohio. St., 262:;,
Railway v. Railway, 30 Ohio St. 604 .
The continued existence of a government would- be, of no,
great value if by implications: and, presumptions: it was disarmed.
of the powers necessary to: accomplish- the ends. of' its. creation,,
and the functions: it was designed to) perform transferred to the.
hands of privileged corporations,. "Charles Ri&r Bridge v. Warren Bridge, I1 Peters, 420;: etroit v...Detroit City Railway, "60

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

201 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 161; Citizens' Railway v. Detroit, 171 U. S. 48;
Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S.598.
The appellee took only what was within the powers of the
municipal corporation to grant and what it has not granted in
terms express and) free from doubt, the complainant cannot
claim. Cleveland v. State Bank of Ohio, 16 Ohio St. 236, 269;
McCloud v. Columbus, 54 Ohio St. 493; Thomas v. City of Richmond, 12 Wall. 356; Stone v. Bank of Commerce, 174 U. S. 424;
Booth on Street Railways, §§ 33, 43; N. 0. & CarroltonR. R.
Co. v. New Orleans, 34 La. Ann. 429.
It is manifest that if the correct date of the termination of
the grant to which the extension was made was not the tenth
day of Iebruary, 1908, but was the twentieth day of September,
1904, the misrecital of the true date after a videlicet would not
control the interpretation, but the true date would prevail.
The misrecital of the date in these ordinances cannot control
the fact which is made the primary test of the date of expiration. That this is the tiniforpn construction of instruments in
which there is a conflict between the precedent matter and that
which follows a videlicet, is well known. Sullivan v. State, 67
Mississippi, 346; Gleason v. McVickar, 7 Cowan (N. Y.), 42, 43;
Commonwealth v. Quinlan, 153 Massachusetts, 483, 484; Buck
v. Lewis, 9 Minnesota, 314; Stukely v. Butler, Hobb, 175; Cot-

ton y.Ward, 19 Kentucky (3 Monroe), 310.
Mr..Andrew Squire and Mr. John W. Warrington,with whom
Mr. William B. Sanders was on the brief, for appellee:
The bill presents a case which was clearly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. City Railway Co. v. Citizens' Railway Co., 166 U. S. 357; Cleveland v. Cleveland City Railway
Co., 194 U. S.517, and shows a state of facts entitling appellee
to relief in equity. Iron Mountain R. R. Co.-v. Memphis, 96
Fed. Rep. 131; Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172
U. S. 12; Cleveland v. Cleveland City Railway Co., supra,
The city having, by the 'ordinance of March 22; 1889, provided that the company, might equip its road with electricity

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

and operate its .entire system therewith until February, 1908,
is estopped from alleging that the right to the operation of any
portion of said system expires before such date. City Railway
v. Citizens' Railroad Co., 166 U. S. 557.
.The legal effect of the ordinance providing for the establishment'of a cross-towr line upob Wilson avenue, to be op-erated
in connection with the other systems of railway then in operation, was to make a uniform date for the expiration of the
franchise grants of the two companies which jointly built the
Willson avenue line as an extension to their existing lines, and
were to operate it in accordance with the provisions of the
ordinapce; and this uniform date was the first day of July,
1914. Cleveland v. Railway Co., 194 U. S. 517.
The ordinance of January 11, 1904, which is attacked in the
bill, is a law of the State authorizing the taking of the property
of the railway company without due process of law, and void
as in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
The tracks, poles, wires and appliances in use by the complainant .company in the operation of its railroad in Woodland
avenue constitute its private property, and 'such private property of the complainant is protected by the same guaranties
of the Constitution against taking without due process of law
as is the property of an individual. C., B..& Q. R. R. Co. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97;
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Cooley's
Constitutional Limitations, 694; Turnpike Co. v. Parkset al., 50
Ohio 'St. 598; Richer v. Hoyt, 53 Michigan, 185.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The system of railways operated by the appellee comprises
about two hundred and thirty-six miles of track. The lines in
controversy are but seven miles of this aggregate, and rest for
their initial grant on the ordinance of the twenty-fifth of August, 1879, to the Kinsman Street Railroad Company. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

grant expired on the twentieth of'September, 1904, unless extended by subsequent ordinances. That it was so extended is
the contention of the appellee, and that it has the right to operate its railways on the streets in controversy until February,
1908, under the contracts constituted by those ordinances and
their acceptance. A special reliance is based on the ordinance
authorizing a change to electricity as a motive power in,. ompliance with which, it is alleged, that the appellee expended a
supa not less than $700,000. The city takes issue with these
contentions. It asserts that the original grant to the Kinsman
Company was not extended as a matter of fact and could not
be extended as a matter-of law, the city not having the power
to prolong the life of 'the original grant. The argument advanced is sonmewhat roundabout. Its ultimate reliance is upon
certain sections of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, from which it
is deduced that it was incompetent for the council to authorize
an extension t(expire at a different time from the main grant.
To hold otherwise, it is said, would be to hold that the council
would have power to grant extensions in perpetuity, while by
section 2502 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio there can be no
grant or a renewal of a grant for a greater period than twentyfive years.
Ordinarily it would be more orderly to consider the power
of the city before considering its exercise or the intention to
exercise it. For our purposes, however, it becomes convenient
to consider first the intention of the city by the ordinances in
question.
The purpose of the ordinances, we think, presents no insolvable doubts. Indeed we think it is clear that the city intended
to secure, and did secure for its citizens, valuable transportation facilities and intended to extend that part of the system
of railways consisting of the Kinsman street line and its extension until February, 1908. There can be no other reasonable meaning of what the city did or of the language it used.
It recognized a main line not in one ordinance but many ordinances,' and the purpose was to. join the initial grant and itp

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201 U. S.

539

Opinion of the Court.

extensions together, and continue it,. and those combined, until 1908. There could have been no mistake in the language used
or misunderstanding of it. We might suppose a mistake in one
ordinance but we cannot suppose a mistake in four ordinances.
The matters dealt with were important, and it is a reasonable
presumption that no provision concerning them escaped attention or was misunderstood. The situation must be kept in
mind. The Woodland Avenue Railway Company (successor
to the right of the Kinsman Street Company) operated a road
on the west side of the Cuyahoga river; the West Side Street
Railroad Company' operated on the east side.: They'were independent companies, and the interchange of traffic between
them was obviously a public advantage. This was accomplished by the consolidation of the companies and the ordinance fixing the terms and, conditions of the consolidation.
By that ordinance through cars were provided for and a single
fare was established "from any point to any point on the lines
and branches of the consolidated road." This imposed duties
on the companies and it also secured to them rights. The
grants of the constituent companies expired at different times,
respectively 1904 and 1908, and it is contended that by the
mere union of the lines the duties and rights of the companies
continued for the longer -term. This, however, we are not -required to determine.
In April, 1887, an ordinance was passed to authorize the consolidated company to lay a double track in Franklin avenue.
In this ordinance the words upon which the controversy turns
as to the extension of the grant to 1908 occur for the first time.
The grant was on' the express condition that no increase of fare
should be charged by the company "on any part of its main
line or said extension, so that but one fare, not to exceed five
cents, shall be charged between" points on said company's main
line or extension . . . and the right herein shall terminate
with the present grant of the main line, to wit, on the tenth
day, of February, 1908." This language is substantially repeated in the three other ordinances. We think there can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

no doubt of its purpose, and if it were any part of our function
to pass upon the wisdom of actions we might say it was a wise
purpose, certainly had much reason to commend it. Why
break up, or risk the breaking up, of a union of lines and the
interchange of their traffic in a continuous carriage of passengers' at one rate of fare? The extension was not for an unreasonable time. One of, the grants did not expire until 1908, and
it was reasonable to continue the -other till that time. What
policy or purpose could be urged against it? The suggestion
of counsel for appellants does not commend itself. The suggestion is that possibly it was the purpose of the city to preserve different dates for the expiration of the grants, so that,
the' company coming to the city with its line in fragments,
the city could consider whether concessions in the public interest might not be required as a condition of the renewal of rights.
To adopt the suggestion we must suppose a situation more difficult than that presented. Forethought of the public interests
must be attributed 'to the city council when it passed the consolidation and other ordinances. There was an immediate public benefit to be considered, and the time of extension was not
so long as to cause a dread of unforeseen conditions or to make
necessary a provision for them. Besides, inducement to the
company had to be offered and secured. However, a discussion of policies is unnecessary. We find the ordinances plainly
written, and we turn to the construction of the power of the
city to grant the extension.
The question of the intention of the ordinances being settled,
the question of the power of the city council is settled, in so
far as this case can be distinguished from Cleveland v. Cleveland
City Railway Company, 194 U. S. 517. In' the latter case we
had occasion to consider the power of the city to pass the ordinances relied on by the appellee in the case at bar, and their
effect as contracts between the city and the companies. The
suit was brought to enjoin the enforcement of an ordinance
passed.October 17, 1898, reducing the fare on the Kinsman
Street Railroad to four cents, under a right -reserved to "in-

CLEVELAND .v CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RY.
201. U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

crease or diminish the rate of fare" on said road as the city
might "deem justifiable and expedient." The Cleveland City
Railway Company, successor of the Kinsman Street Company,
contended that the power had been given up in subsequent
ordinances, and the decision sustained the contention. The
sections of the Revised Statutes of Ohio were quoted ,.nd by
them it was said- "-there was lodged by the legislature of Ohio
in the municipal council of Cleveland comprehensive power to
contract with street railway companies in respect to the terms
and conditions upon which such roads might be constructed,
operated, extended and consolidated, the only limitation upon
the power being that in case of an extension no increase in rate
of fare should. be allowed." This extract leaves nothing to be
said as to the power of the city and the rest of the opinion
leaves little to be said as to the question of the ordinances constituting contracts With the company. All the considerations
which could be urged against them as such were discussed and
passed on, and the ordinances involved were those relied on
by the aplellee in the present case, to wit, the ordinance making the grant to the Kinsman Street Company of August, 1879,
the ordinance consolidating the West Side Railroad Company
and the Woodland Avenue Railroad Company, and the ordinance of April 8, 1887, and August 12, 1887. There was a reference to th'e provision of the ordinance of April 8, and its
repetition in the ordinance of August 12, making the time of
the termination of the grants that "of the main line, to wit,
on the tenth day of February, 1908." The reference was not
casual. The provision, was regarded as an element in the purpose of the extension of the roads and as a means of securing
the public advantages of the union of the lines and one rate of
fare over all of them.
Another contention was noticed which was pressed there and
it is again pressed here, based on section 2502 of the Revised,
Statutes of Ohio, that a municipal corporation could not, during the term of the grant or the renewal thereof, release the
grantee from any obligation or liability imposed by the grant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

This provision was urged as preventing a surrender by the city
of the power reserved in the grant to the Kinsman Street Railway Company, because the reservation was an obligation and
liability imposed upon the railroad corporation. Section 2501
was urged as precluding any attempt to treat the consent of
the city to extensions, consolidations, or change of motive
power as of renewals of the rights renewed by the ordinance of
1879, because it was' contended that the positive. provisions
of that section permitted such renewals only at the expiration
of original grants: Both contentions were rejected. Of section 2502 it was said that the laws of Ohio permitted a modification of a contract between a municipality and the. owner of
a street railroad, and section 2501 had been held to authorize
renewals to be made before the expiration of the original grant.
To support the latter conclusion we cited State v. East Cleveland Railroad Co., 6 Ohio Circuit Court Rep. 318, affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Ohio. Appellants concede the'authority
of that case, but say'the ordinance it passed upon left no doubt
of the intention of the city, whereas in the case at bar, considering the provisions of the statutes and the ordinances, all intendments must be held to be against an intention to renew
the original grant. In other words, the contention is that
while "no set form of words is necessary," it is yet urged that
"such result can only be effected by apt words evincing a plain
and unmistakable purpose to make a renewal." It is not a
question of power, therefore, to pass the ordinances, but of the
intention of the city in passing them, and the latter we have
sufficiently considered. It is only necessary to add that we
do not find uncertainty in them and -cannot, therefore, yield to
the conclusion deduced from its supposed existence. The situation was plain and the city council met it with a definite and
reasonable plan. It must not be overlooked that if the city
gave rights it secured benefits and that the rights could not
be exercised without large expenditures of money or be of any
value unless assured of stability. Seven hundred thousand
dollars, the appellee urges, it expended on the change to elec-

POWERS v. DETROIT & GRAND.I-IHAVEN RY.
201 U. s:

543

Syllabus.

trical power,. and the allegation is hardly made doubtful by the
answer. We cannot believe- that the expenditure of that sum
was unworthy of consideration by the city, or that the city
intended to exact it as an obligation that could be imposed on
.the company, or regarded it as anything but a benefit'to the
city, to be recompensed and secured by the ordinance which
was passed.
It is urged by the appellee that the roads operated by it constituted a unified system, And by virtue of the ordinance of
July.17, i893, fixing the time of the expiration of the grant
thereby made the twenty-sixth of January, 1910, and the ordinance of February, 1894, in which the date of the expiration
of.the grant there provided for was the first day of July, 1914,
eitended the time of all, the grants composing the system until
1914. We do not think this question properly arises on the
record,. and we, therefore, do not pass upon it.
Decree affirmed.

POWERS, AUDITOR GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN, v. DETROIT,, GRAND HAVEN AND MILWAUKEE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 394. -Argued February 26, 1906.-Decided April 16, 1906.

Where a railroad company is reorganized under a special act of the legislature but no new corporation is chartered a statutory exemption from
taxation -is not destroyed.
A State may, through. its legislature, make a valid contract as to taxation
with a corporation which the latter can enforce; and this court is not,
under the rule generally applicable as to the binding effect of decisions
of the Supreme Court, of the State construing its statutes, concluded by

