RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
201 U. .

Argument for Appellant.

construction. Tampa Water Works Co. v. Tampa, 199 U. S.
241, 243. We have made some little analysis of the words
simply because the state court went into no detail.
Judgment affirmed.

RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRI17T COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 209. Argued March 14, 1906.-Decided April 2,1906.
Remote explanations as to the use and meaning of a word will be rejected
when the will offers upon its face a different and more obvious one.
The words sucesion legitima in the will of a Porto Rican held to mean "issue,"
and not. "lawful heirs."
This court will not consider a claim which was not set up in the bill or in
the court below, nor suggested until after the argument in this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fritz v. Briesen, with whom were Mr. Charles M. Boerman and Mr. Stephen M. Hoye on the brief, for appellant:
The real point in issue, in determining the proper construction of the will, is whether the words "sucesion legitima"
used in the thirteenth, the residuary clause of the will, mean
"legal issue" or "legal heirs." If the former, this appeal
must fail; if the latter, the complainant is entitled to take
as the legal heir of her daughter, Felipa Benecia.
The primary and technical meaning of the words "sucesion
legitima" is "legal heirs."
As used in the Spanish Codes and law dictionaries the words
"sucesion legitima" have a meaning which may be most nearly
expressed by the English words "intestate succession." Escriche, Diccionario Razonado de Legislacion y Jurisprudencia,
Paris, 1852, tit. "Sucesion legitima;" Pothier, 8 (Euvres
(Edited by Bugnet), Paris, .1890, TraitO des Succesions, 1;

372,

OCTOBER: TERM, 1905.
Argument for -Appellant.

201 U. S.

Code of Civil Procedure of 1889 -(War Dept. Translation),
Art. 912.
See also Civil Code of Porto Rico, 1902 (in RevisedStatutes
of Porto Rico), §§ 664-666, 886. This Code makes a distinction between legitimate succession, which is that which the
law has established in favor of the nearest relatives of the
deceased (§ 666 v.) and irregular succession which is that
established in favor of certain persona or of the people of
Porto Rico in the absence of legal heirs or those instituted by
will.
See also Code of Louisiana, New Orleans, 1861, Arts. 871875, where the same distinction is drawn.
It is a peculiar provision of the civil law that, in -view of
the fact that an heir is liable for all or a share of the debts
of the deceased, he may refuse the inheritance altogether.
In such a case, he is considered as not being an heir, and as
never having been an heir.,
Thus by collocation of ideas the words "sucesion legitima"
are used to designate those of the, nearest relatives who take
the inheritance. See Resolution of June 25, 1895, in Alcubilla,
Diccionario de la Administration Espafiola, Madrid, Appendix
Volume'for 1895, page 795, Tit. "Jurisprudencia Hipotecaria
y Notarial." The case is also printed in full in Scaevola, 3
Jurisprudencia del Codigo Civil, Madrid, 1901, page 213. See
also Century Dictionary, "Succession."
The words "sucesion legitima" are never used in the Code
to designate legitimate issue, except in so far as the "sucesion
legitima" goes first to the descendants (Art. 930), and, in the
absence of descendants, or of their refusal to take, to the
ascendants, and in their absence or refusal to take, to the
collateral relatives., If, therefore, a deed or will provides that
the property is to go to the. sucesion legitima," then, if there
are children, it necessarily means "the children. But, if there
be no children, it means. ascendants; and if there be no ascendants, then it means the collateral relatives.
We have an analogous use of the word "heirs" in Qur law,

RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
201 U.. S.

•373

Argument for Appellant.

See Ide v. Ide, 5 Massachusetts, 500; Gifford v. Choate, 100
Massachusetts, 345; Heath v. Hewitt, 127 N. Y. 166.
It is the general rule of the Spanish law that wills are to be
construed exactly as they read, unless such construction be
a ridiculous one. Law 5, Title 33,. Partida 7, of the Laws of
Las Siete Partidas. This law has been reenacted in the Civil
Code, Art. 675.
The law has been construed in a number of decisions of the
Supreme Court of Spain, reported-in the Jurisprudencia Civil.
Sentence of December 20, 1862, vol. 7, No. 315, p. 787; Sentence of December 11, 1865, vol. 12, No. 439, p. 461; Decision
of June 21, 1872, vol. 26, No. 204, pp. 15, 16; Sentence of
March 3, 1873, vol. 27, No. 108, p. 395.
The same provisions are found in our law of the construction of wills. The plain meaning of the words used in a will
is always presumed to be their meaning, and the burden of
proof that they are used in another sense is upon the party
claiming so. See Aspden's .Estate, Fed. Cas. No. 589; Daley
v. James, 8 Wheat. 534; Osborne v. Shrieve, 3 Mason, 391.
It is also invariably so held in the States where the civil
law similar to that of Porto Rico is in force, as, for. example,
in.Louisiana and California. Norris v. Hensley, 27 California,
439, 450; Sharpe v. Kleinberter, 7 La. Ann. 264.
In construing a will,-the words are to be construed according to their -natural import, unless the context evidently points
out that in the particular instance there should be some other
construction. Sheriff v. Brown, 5 Mackey, 172; In re Hallet,
8 Paige, 378; Puryear v. Edmonson, 4 Heisk, 51. A testator
must be presumed to have used words in their ordinary primary
sense or meaning. In re Woodward, 117 N. Y. 522. All
doubts are to be resolved in favor of the testator's having said
exactly what he meant. Cady v. Bunn, 46 N. J. .Eq. 131:
Where the provisions of the will are clear and simple, no reason exists for taking the testator's words in any other than
their natural sense. Wiley v. Lockwood, 86 N. Y. 301; Lovett
v. Buloid, 3 Barb. Ch. 137. The question in expounding a

374 •

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellees.

201 U. S.

will is, not what the testator meant, but what is the meaning
of the words used by him. Barrow's Appeal (Pa.), 8 Cent.
Rep. 132; Bates v. Woodruff, 123 Illinois, 205.
Provisions relating to fideicommissary substitutions are to
be liberally construed, so as to prevent the taking place of the
substitution. Pothier, "Traitk des Substitution," Works,
Paris, 1890, edited by Bugnet, vol. 8, p. 477.
The construction of the words "sucesion legitima" as legal
heirs is the one intended by the testator. The will was drawn
by a notary public, an officer held in high respect in Porto Rico:
and appointed for his knowledge of the law of conveyancing
and drafting of wills. The words were therefore used in their
technical legal sense.
Mr. X, B. K. Pettingill, for appellees, submitted:
Under both the Spanish and American systems the courts
will so construe wills, irrespective of the technical meanings
of the words used, as to determine and carry out the real intention of a testator. The rule in our own law is firmly fixed.
Robinson v. Portland Asylum, 123 U. S. 707; Kenaday v.
Sinnott, 179 U. S. 616.
There are numerous decisions of the Supreme Court of
Spain in which almost the same language is used. Cayetano
Codina v. Felipe Codina, Sentence of June 30, 1866, Jurisprudencia Civil, vol. 14, p. 237; Romero v. Romero, Sentence
of Dec. 10, 1866, Juris. Civ., vol. 14, p. 793.
For meaning of "sucesion legitima" see Dictionary Royal
Spanish Academy, p. 932; Lopez, Spanish-English Dictionary,
p. 57.7; Sentence, vol. 61, p. 10, Juris Civ.; Sentence, vol. 51,
p. 422, Juris. Civ.
See the American decisions which hold that where the word
"heirs" is used by a testator it often.is shown by the context
to mean "issue" or "descendants." Randolph v. Randolph,
40N. J. Eq. 77; Canfield v. Canfield, 118 Fed. Rep. 1 (C. C. A.);
Abbott v. Essex Co., 18 How. 202; Barber v. Pittsburg Ry. Co.,
166 U. S. 83.

RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

To hold that the devise was to each of the eight persons
and their "heirs" would destroy the express provision of
"fideicomiso" or trust and leave the phrase "con calidad de
fideicomiso" useless and ineffective.
It would also leave without meaning the further provision
for the mutual benefit of the eight, because a person very seldom
dies without "heirs" in the broad sense, and even in that
event the Civil Code of Porto Rico, then in force, provided
that in default of other heirs the State would inherit. War
Department translation, arts. 956, 958.
It would not give due weight and meaning to the use by
the testator of the word "legitimate" in connection with the
word "sucesion," because in the paragraph in question the
word "legitimate" would be superfluous as modifying the general term "heirs," while it becomes important as a limiting
word if it modifies "issue."
That these trust provisions under the term "fideicomiso"
were common in the Spanish law were recognized as valid
when not creating a perpetuity and their meaning and construction well determined, see the Sentencia of the Supreme
Court of Spain in Moya v. Moya, April 22, 1865, Juris. Civ.,
vol. 11, p. 534.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.'

This is a bill for the partition of real estate in which the
female plaintiff claims one undivided eighth as heir to her
daughter Felipa Benicia, who died an infant without issue.
This d:.:ghter got her title under the will of Thomas Jos6
Ramirez, and the question is whether, in the event which
happened, her share went to her mother by descent or to her
fellow devisees by the terms of the will. The other devisees
all were living at her death. The case was heard upon a plea
setting up the foregoing facts, together with the will, and the
bill was dismissed. Thereupon the plaintiffs appealed to this
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

201 U. S.

The material clause of the will is as follows: "Trece.-Et
remanente de mis bienes, derechos y acciones lo lego con
calidad de fideicomiso y que acrezcan las demas, caso de
fallecimiento sin sucesion legitima, .por iguales partes, a mis
sobrinas Dofia Cornelia y Dofia Antonia Martinez, Dofia
Monserrate,. Dofia Obdulia, Dofia Encarnacion, Dofia Angela
y Dofia Concesion Ramirez de Arellano y Felipa Benicia mi
hija de crianza," etc. We vary slightly the translation in the
record. "The remainder of my goods, rights and actions I
bequeath in the character of fideicommissum and that the
other [shares] may [profit 'by] accretion, in case of death without sucesion legitima, by equal parts to my nieces [named]
and Felipa Benicia my foster child, who shall adopt my surname," with appointment of a guardian for the last, a provision for her education, and a request that when that is finished she return to live with the said nieces.
It is agreed that it is possible for "sucesion legitima" to
mean either issue or lawful heirs. If it means the latter, the
mother inherited, as she-was the lawful heir. If it means the
former, then, by the terms of the will, Felipa Benicia's share
went to the testator's nieces when she died. It seems to us
too plain to need extended elucidation that "sucesion legitima"
here means issue. The argument on tle other side that the
purpose is merely to prevent an escheat by making the nieces
and Filipa Benicia reciprocal successors, to impose a fetter on
free alienation and to enhance the dowry of the nieces, strikes
us as fanciful. The natural object of this fideicommissary
substitution is that which is said to be its object, to secure
accretion among the shares. But that' purpose would pretty
nearly vanish into thin air if death without heirs were the
event in view. For each of the'nieces being heir to all the
others, accretion among them would be excluded. It is argued,
to be sure, that they might repudiate the inheritance and then
claim under the will, if any of the nieces died heavily in debt.
Whether this would be true by Spanish law we need not inquire. For such remote explanations must be rejected when

RODRIGUEZ v. VIVONI.
201 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the will offers a different and more obvious one upon its face.
And while it is pressed that substitutions are strictly construed
in favor of the first taker, we do not understand that or any
other rule of construction to require a perversion of language,
or to govern a case where the second taker stands on an equal
.footing with the first in the testator's mind, with equal mutual
chances, and when the plainly expressed purpose is to create
an artificial class, with cross limitations in case of death without a child.
A suggestion is made by an afterthought, in a brief filed
since the argument, that the testator could not exclude the
mother of Felipa from her right, as necessary or forced heir,
to two-thirds of Felipa's share. The suggestion comes too
late. No such claim was set up in the bill, or, so far as appears, in the court below. Therefore we shall not consider
at length whether, in case of a pure gratuity to one to whom
the testator was under no legal obligation, the Spanish law
entitled a forced heir to claim against the words of a gift like
this. The texts cited are no.t sufficient to establish the proposition, and the contrary seems to be shown by Ley 10, Tit. 4,
Part. 6, and,. note 13, Madrid ed. 1848. See also 4 Escriche,
1051, 1052, sub. v. Substitucion Fideicomisaria, ad fin. On
the, whole case the plaintiffs must abide by the construction
and the law in which, it would seem from the bill, they have
acquiesced for thirty years.
Decree affirmed.

