LOS ANGELES BRUSH CORP. v. JAMES.

701

Syllabus.

693

the purpose of invoking the advice of this court without
real parties or a real case, or to administrative or legislative issues or controversies." See also Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis,decided this day, 273 U. S.70.
With this limitation upon our powers, it is not difficult
to reach a conclusion in the present case. We should have
had no power to review the action of the District Court
of Appeals if it had heard the appeal and taken administrative jurisdiction, and by the same token have now no
power to review its action in refusing such jurisdiction.
But it is said that this leaves the appellant without any
remedy to review the decision of the District Court of
Appeals and makes its conclusion final in respect of the
construction of the Trade-Mark Act of 1920. Even if this
be so, as to which we express no opinion, it can not furnish
a reason for exceeding the constitutional powers of this
Court.
The appeal is dismissed.
LOS ANGELES BRUSH MANUFACTURING COR-

PORATION v. JAMES, DISTRICT JUDGE.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A PETITION FOR MANDAMIUS.

No. -,

Original.

Motion submitted October 25, 1926.-Denied
January 3, 1927.

1. In the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamils, under Jud. Code § 234, and in fulfilment of its power
under Rev. Stats. § 917, to regulate the equity practice, this Court
has discretion to issue the writ directly to the District Court in a
case of which it has ultimate power to review the merits, for the
purpose of inquiring into and correcting a practice of assigning all
patent causes to a master, adopted by the District Judges in alleged
disconformity to the Equity Rules. P. 705.
2. Under Equity Rules 46 and 59, trials are, generally, to be oral, in
open court, and references to a master exceptional, and this applies
to patent cases. P.706.

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272

U. S.

3. District Courts must exercise a discretion in reference to the order
of business; and congestion of the calendar ith many cases, including a large number of criminal cases, ahead of the patent cases,
may furnish cause for referring the patent cases to a master. P. 707.
Leave to file denied.

OrnGiAI application for leave to file a petition for
mandamus directed to one of the District Judges of the
Southern District of California.
Mr. Ford W. Harris was on the brief for petitioner in
support of the motion.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. CIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a motion for leave to file a petition for mandamus
by the Los Angeles Brush Manufacturing Corporation,
against a Judge of the United States District Court for
the Southern District of California. The petitioner is a
defendant in two patent suits pending in that court, in
one of which the Stabler Parker Company is complainant;
and W. B. Clancy and others are complainants in the
other. The suits are bills in equity brought to restrain
the defendant from infringement of a patent for a new
and improved brush. The defendant answered and the
complainants moved to set the two cases for trial. Counsel for the complainants said that while his clients would
prefer to try the case before the court, he would ask, if
the court had not time to try them, that the cases be
referred to a special master. Counsel for the defendant
objected to such a reference, and said that if the reference
was to be made, he would like to have a notation in the
record that no showing had been made of exceptional
circumstances, and that ihe cases were referred to the
master over his objection. Thereupon the following order
was made in each case:

LOS ANGELES BRUSH CORP. v. JAMES.
701

703

Opinion of the Court.

"This cause now appearing on the call of the Court's
calendar to be set for trial, and it being the desire of both
counsel for the plaintiff and defendant, as expressed in
open Court, that a date be fixed for the trial hereof, and
counsel for the plaintiff insists that, because of alleged
acts of infringement committed by the defendant, plaintiff will suffer damage by reason of the great delay in
the hearing and determination of the issues herein; and
it appearing that because of the congestion of the Court's
calendar there are many other causes entitled to be first
heard, including a large number of criminal causes which
are entitled to preference over civil matters as to the trial
thereof; and it further appearing that, because of the
protracted length of patent trials, the result has been and
is that other civil litigants having causes to be tried have
not been accorded a fair proportion of the time of the
Court; and it appearing that this condition will continue
unless many of the patent cases, including this cause, now
pending can be disposed of in the manner herein provided,
and, hence, that in order to fairly and within a reasonable
time dispose of the business before the Court, it is necessary that this order be made:
"It is now ordered, that this cause be referred to
Charles C. Montgomery, Esq., Standing Master in
Chancery, to take and hear the evidence offered by the
respective parties and to make his conclusions as to the
facts in issue and recommend the judgment to be entered
thereon; the Standing Master in Chancery is authorized
and empowered to do all things and to make such orders
as may be required to accomplish a full hearing on all
matters of fact and law in issue in this cause; the objection
of counsel for the defendant to the making of this order
referring the cause to the Master is hereby noted and an
exception is allowed in favor of the defendant."
Thereupon the defendant filed this petition asking a
rule against the Judge to show cause why a mandamus

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

should not issue directing him to vacate the order of
reference to the master and to place the causes on the
calendar for trial in open court. He says that he is informed and believes that at some time prior to July 12,
1926, the judges of the United States District Court,
Southern District of California, by mutual agreement,
appointed Montgomery as standing master to try patent
causes; that at the calling of the term calendar in July,
1926, and at divers times since, all the district judges
have announced in open court and in chambers that they
would not personally try all causes involving patents for
invention but would refer substantially all such causes to
said standing master; that the result is that the standing
master has set up a court with an extensive docket; that
the causes here in question are ordinary and extremely
simple patent causes which can be quickly and expeditiously tried, as will appear from the records therein; that
the principal reasons given for the action by the court is
that patent causes sometimes require protracted trials and
that the court calendar is now, and has been for some
years, rather congested, but that this condition is not
exceptional but quite usual in most of the district courts
and promises to continue indefinitely. The petitioner
avers that it has an established right under the Equity
Rules to a trial in open court; that the petitioner has no
other remedy than application to this Court to act under
the supervisory authority established by § 234 of the
Judicial Code, 1 Stat. at Large 80, and in accordance with
Virginiav. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; that unless this application is granted, the litigants in patent causes in the Southern District of California will be forced at their own expense to maintain a patent court set up by the judges of
the District Court and operating in defiance of the plain
intent of the Equity Rules; that by thus singling out
patent cases such judges have unjustly and arbitrarily
discriminated against a certain class of litigants and sub-

LOS ANGELES BRUSH CORP. v. JAMES.
701

705

Opinion of the Court.

jected those litigants to unnecessary trouble and expense,
because proceedings before a master are invariably protraeted and expensive, and the cost of such proceedings
must be borne by the litigants.
By § 917 of the Revised Statutes, this Court is given
power from time to time, in any manner not inconsistent
with the laws of the United States, to regulate the whole
practice to be used in suits in equity or admiralty by the
district courts-Weynzan v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1. This
was taken from § 13 of the original Judiciary Act, 1 Stat.
80, c. 20. The same 13th section provided that the Supreme Court should have appellate jurisdiction to issue
writs of mandamus in cases warranted by the principles
and usages of law to any courts appointed under the
authority of the United States. This part of the original
§ 13 became embodied in § 688 of the Revised Statutes
and is now to be found in § 234 of the Judicial Code.
In Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, at p. 323, Mr. Justice
Strong, speaking for the court in reference to writs of
mandamus which the Supreme Court might issue, said:
"In what case such a writ is warranted by the principles
and usages of law it is not always easy to determine. Its
use has been very much extended in modern times, and
now it may be said to be an established remedy to oblige
inferior courts and magistrates to do that justice which
they are in duty, and by virtue of their office, bound to
do. It does not lie to control judicial discretion, except
when that discretion has been abused; but it is a remedy
when the case is outside of the exercise of this discretion,
and outside the jurisdiction of the court or officer to
which or to whom the writ is addressed."
The hearing of these causes in review would normally
be had in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, and they could only come here in due course by
applications for certiorari and the granting of them. We
do not need to decide whether the intervention between
23468'-27-----45

706

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

this Court and the District Court of an intermediate
appellate court would prevent the issue of mandamus by
this Court direct to the District Court, in matters in
which the Circuit Court of Appeals would or should ordinarily have power to issue a mandamus to the same end
in aid of its appellate jurisdiction. However that may be,
we think it clear that where the subject concerns the
enforcement of the Equity Rules which by law it is the
duty of this Court to formulate and put in force, and
in a case in which this Court has the ultimate discretion to
review the case on its merits, it may *use its power of
mandamus and deal directly with the District Court in
requiring it to conform to them. Ex parte Abdu, 247 U. S.
27, 28; Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters 190, 192, 193, 194. This
is not to say that in every case where the Equity Rules
are the subject of interpretation and enforcement in the
District Court, such questions may as of course be brought
here and considered in a direct proceeding in mandamus.
The question of thus using the writ of mandamus would
be a matter of discretion in this Court, and it would
decline to exercise its power where the issue might more
properly come up by mandamus in an intermediate appellate court or in regular proceedings on review. If it
clearly appeared, however, that a practice had been
adopted by district judges, as to the order or procedure
in hearing causes, at variance with the equity rules, our
writ might well issue directly to such judges.

Rule 46 requires that in any trials in equity the testimony of witnesses shall be taken orally in open court,
except as otherwise provided by statute or the rules, and
that the Court shall pass upon the admissibility of all evidence offered as in actions at law. Equity Rule 59 provides that, save in matters of account, a reference to a
master shall be the exception, not the rule, and shall be
made only upon a showing that some exceptional condition requires it. These rules were adopted by this Court

LOS ANGELES BRUSH CORP. v. JAMES.
701

707

Opinion of the Court.

after a thorough revision. Committees of the Bar from
the nine different circuits were invited to assist the Court
in the matter. The Court, after much consideration, concluded that the then method of taking evidence in patent,
and other causes in equity, had been productive of unnecessary expense and burden to the litigants and caused
much delay in their disposition, and that the effective way
to avoid the making of extended records, unnecessary to
a consideration of the real issues of the causes, was to
require, so far as it might be possible and practicable, that
the evidence taken in patent and other cases should be
taken in open court, and that only in exceptional cases
should the cause be referred after issue to a special master.
Though there has been some criticism and complaint of
the inconveniences that arise from this change of the
rules, the Court is strongly convinced that the change has
justified itself; and it has no purpose to amend the provisions of Rule 46 and Rule 59. Were it to find that the
rules have been practically nullified by a district judge,
or by a concert of action on the part of several district
judges, it would not hesitate to restrain them. One of the
causes for complaint of the general administration of
justice is the expense it entails upon the litigants; and, so
far as it reasonably may do so, this Court is anxious to
minimize the basis for such complaints. There is no
reason why a patent litigant should be subjected to any
greater expense than any other litigant, except as it may
be involved in the inherent and inevitable difference between the presentation of the issues as to the merit and
validity of a patent grant, and that which obtains in the
litigation of an ordinary bill for relief in equity, or of
an action at law upon a debt or for a tort.
Of course, courts must exercise a discretion in reference
to the order of business to be conducted before them, and
all the cases can not be heard at once. It is in the interest
of economy of time that there should be hearings, first

708

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

in one class of cases, and then in another, provided each
class may be given an opportunity within a reasonable
time. Arguments based on humanity and necessity for
the preservation of public order require that criminal
,ases should be given a reasonable preference; but even
this must be conceded with moderation, and what time
there is of the court, in view of the whole docket, must
be equitably distributed. The reason given in the order
for referring these cases to a special master is that there is
congestion in the court's calendar and that there are many
other cases entitled to be heard first, including a large
number of criminal causes which should be preferred over
civil causes as to the trial thereof, that other civil litigation has not been accorded a fair proportion of the time
of the court, and that the condition will continue unless
many of the patent cases, including this cause, be disposed
of by such a reference.
In view of the recitals of the order, we are not inclined
to infer that there has been any deliberate abuse of discretion in this matter, or to hold that there may not sometimes be such a congestion in the docket as to criminal
cases as would justify a district judge in not literally complying with the requirements of the two rules in question.
There has been an emergency, due to a lack of judges in
some districts, which we can not ignore. We shall therefore deny leave to file this petition, but are content to
state our views on the general subject, with confidence
that the district judges will be advised how important we
think these two rules are, and that we intend, so far as
lies in our power, to make them reasonably effective for
the purpose had in view in their adoption.
Leave denied.

