OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

Courts. There are plausible reasons in this case for following the local interpretation and we think that the
Court below was right in accepting the Commissioner's
view. Other arguments thrown in as makeweights do
not need to be discussed. The fact that the cost of the insurance was taken up into the price of a machine otherwise lawfully sold does not prevent the insurance being
reached. See Herbert v. The Shanley Co., 242 U. S. 591.
The question raised by these bills is the general one,
whether the State laws can be applied to this insurance.
That we have answered. Exactly how far the laws can
go and what proceedings can or cannot be taken, may be
left to be determined, if the questions arise, in the State
Courts.
The cases from Maine, Chrysler Sales Corporation v.
Spencer, Insurance Commissioner, and Utterback-Gleason
Company v. Spencer, are like the last, and follow the Wisconsin decision after a full discussion. 9 Fed. (2d) 674.
These decisions also must stand.
Decrees affirmed.
DORCHY v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 119.

Argued October 7, 1926.-Decided October 25, 1926.

1. A decision by a state supreme court as to the separability of parts
of a state statute from other parts found invalid by this Court, is
binding on this Court. P. 308.

2. Upon review of a state court's judgment, facts not in the record
and not noticed judicially, can not be considered. P. 311.
3. Mere reference, by the state supreme court, to another case as a
controlling decision, did not incorporate the record of that ease
into the record of the one in which the reference was made. Id.
4. There is no constitutional right to call a strike solely for the purpose of coercing the employer to pay a disputed stale claim of a
former employee, a member of the union. P. 311.

DORCHY v. KANSAS.
306

Opinion of the Court.

5. As applied to such a case, § 17 of the Kansas Industrial Relations
Act, making it unlawful " to induce others to quit their employment
for the purpose and with the intent to hinder, delay, limit or
suispend the operation" of mining, and § 19, making it a felony
for an officer of a labor union wilfully to use the power or influence
incident to his office to induce another person to violate § 17, are
within the power of the State and do not deny the liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 309.
6. Neither the common law nor the Fourteenth Amendment confers
the absolute right to strike. P. 311.
116 Kan. 412, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas
which affirmed sentence imposed on Dorchy under § 19
of the Kansas Industrial Relations Act, for using his
influence as a labor union official to induce a strike, in
violation of § 17. See S. C., 264 U. S. 286.

Mr. John F. McCarron, with whom Messrs. Redmond
S. Brennan and Phil H. Callery were on the brief, i'or
the plaintiff in error.
Messrs. John G. Egan and Chester I. Long, with whom
Messrs. Charles B. Griffith, Attorney General of Kansas,
Austin M. Cowan, and William E. Stanley were on the
brief, for the State of Kansas.
IR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Section 17 of the Court of Industrial Relations Act,
Laws of Kansas, 1920, Special Session, c. 29, while reserving to the individual employee the right to quit
his employment at any time, makes it unlawful to conspire "to induce others to quit their employment for
the purpose and with the intent to hinder, delay, limit
or suspend the operation of" mining. Section 19 makes
it a felony for an officer of a labor union wilfully to use
the power or influence incident to his office to induce
another person to violate any provision of the Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Dorchy was prosecuted criminally for violating § 19. The
jury found him guilty through inducing a violation bf
§ 17; the trial court sentenced him to fine and imprisonment; and its judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, Kansas v. Howat, 112 Kan. 235.
Dorchy duly claimed in both state courts that § 19 as
applied was void because it prohibits strikes; and that
to do so is a denial of the liberty guaranteed by f he
Fourteenth Amendment. Because this claim was denied
the case is here under § 237 of the Judicial Code as
amended.
This is the second writ of error. When the case was
first presented, it appeared that after entry of the judgment below certain provisions of the Act had been held
invalid by this Court in Charles Wolff Packing Co. v.
Court of Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522. The question suggested itself whether § 19 had not necessarily
fallen, as a part of the system of so-called compulsory
arbitration, so that there might be no occasion to consider the constitutional objection made specifically to
it. That question, being one of statutory interpretation
which had not been passed upon by the state court, the
case was reversed without costs, and remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this
Court. Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286. Thereupon,
the Supreme Court of Kansas decided that § 19 is so
far severable from the general scheme of legislation held
invalid that it may stand alone with the legal effect
of an independent statute; and it reaffirmed the judgment of the trial court. Kansas v. Howat, 116 Kan. 412.
By the construction thus given to the statute we are
bound. The only question open upon this second writ
of error is whether the statute as so construed and applied
is constitutional.
The state court did not, in either of its opinions, mention the specific objection to the validity of § 19 now

DORCHY v. KANSAS.
306

Opinion of the Court.

urged. In the second, it discussed only the question of
statutory construction. In the first, it stated merely that
the case is controlled by State v. Howat, 109 Kan. 376;
Court of Industrial Relations v. Charles Wolff Packing
Co., 109 Kan. 629, and State v. Howat, 109 Kan. 779.
In these cases, which came to this Court for review in
Howat v. Kansas, 258 U. S. 181 and Charles Wolff Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522;
267 U. S. 552, there was no occasion to consider the
precise claim now urged-the invalidity of § 19 when
treated as an independent statute. Nor was this question referred to, in any way. But the claims made by
Dorchy below properly raised it; and, as the judgment
entered involves a denial of the claim, we must pass upon
it. The question requiring decision is not, however, the
broad one whether the legislature has power to prohibit
strikes. It is whether the prohibition of § 19 is unconstitutional as here applied. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co.
v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 289. The special facts out
of which the strike arose must, therefore, be considered.
Some years prior to February 3, 1921, the George H.
Mackie Fuel Company had operated a coal mine in Kansas. Its-employees were members of District No. 14,
United Mine Workers of America. On that day, Howat,
as president, and Dorchy, as vice-president of the union,
purporting to act under direction of its executive board,
called a strike. So far as appears, there was no trade
dispute. There had been no controversy between the
company and the union over wages, hours or conditions
of labor; over discipline or the discharge of an employee;
concerning the observance of rules; or over the employment of non-union labor. Nor was the strike ordered as
a sympathetic one in aid of others engaged in any such
controversy. The order was made and the strike was
called to compel the company to pay a claim of one
Mishmash for $180. The men were told this; and they

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

were instructed not to return to work until they should
be duly advised that the claim had been paid. The strike
order asserted that the claim had "been settled by the
Joint Board of Miners and Operators but [that] the company refuses . . . to pay Brother Mishmash any part of
the money that is due him." There was, however, no
evidence that the claim had been submitted to arbitration, nor of any contract requiring that it should be. The
claim was disputed. It had been pending nearly two
years. So far as appears, Mishmash was not in the company's employ at the time of the strike order. The men
went out in obedience to the strike order; and they did not
return to work until after the claim was paid, pursuant to
an order of the Court of Industrial Relations. While the
men were out on strike this criminal proceeding was
begun.
Besides these facts, which appear by the bill of exceptions, the State presents for our consideration further
facts which appear by the record in Howat v. Kansas, 109
Kan. 376; 258 U. S. 181, one of the cases referred to by the
Supreme Court of Kansas in its first opinion in the case
at bar. These show that Dorchy called this strike in
violation of an injunction issued by the State oourt; and
that the particular controversy with Mishmash arose in
this way. Under the contract between the company and
the union, the rate of pay for employees under 19 was
$3.65 a day and for those over 19 the rate was $5. Mishmash had been paid at the lower rate from August 31,
1917, to March 22, 1918, without protest. On that day
he first demanded pay at the higher rate, and claimed
back pay from August 31, 1917, at the higher rate. His
contention was that he had been born August 31, 1898.
The company paid him, currently, at the higher rate beginning April 1, 1918. It refused him the back pay, on
the ground that he was in fact less than nineteen years
old. One entry in the Mishmash family Bible gave

DORCHY v. KANSAS.
306

Opinion of the Court.

August 31, 1898, as the date of his birth, another August
31, 1899. Hence the dispute. These additional facts were
not put in evidence in the case at bar. Howat v. Kansas, 109 Kan. 376, was a wholly independent proceeding.
Mere reference to it by the court as a controlling decision
did not incorporate its record into that of the case at bar.
See PacificR. R. Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 111 U. S.
505, 517-8. And it does not appear that the court treated
these facts as matters of which it took judicial notice.
We must dispose of the case upon the facts set forth in
the bill of exceptions.
The right to carry on business-be it called liberty or
property-has value. To interfere with this right without just cause is unlawful. The fact that the injury was
inflicted by a strike is sometimes a justification. But a
strike may be illegal because of its purpose, however
orderly the manner in which it is conducted. To collect
a stale claim due to a fellow member of the union who
was formerly employed in the business is not a permissible
purpose. In the absence of a valid agreement to the contrary, each party to a disputed claim may insist that it
be determined only by a court. Compare Guaranty
Trust Co. v. Green Cove R. R., 139 U. S. 137, 143;
Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109. To
enforce payment by a strike is clearly coercion. The legislature may make such action punishable criminally, as
extortion or otherwise. Compare People v. Barondess, 16
N. Y. Supp. 436; 133 N. Y. 649. And it may subject to
punishment him who uses the power or influence incident to his office in a union to order the strike. Neither
the common law, nor the Fourteenth Amendment, confers
the absolute right to strike. Compare Aikens v. Wisconsin, 105 U. S. 194, 204-5.
Affirmed.

