HUGHES BROS. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
465

Syllabus.

authorizing confiscation of vehicles used in unlawful transportation of liquor, does not affect its validity. In Hebert v. State of Louisiana, ante, p. 312, it was held
that the same transaction may constitute separate
offenses against both state and federal sovereignties,
and that in separate prosecutions the statutes of
that sovereignty under whose auspices the proceedings are instituted are alone to be applied. Cf. United
States v. Lanza, 260 U. S.377; Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania,
258 U. S.403.
The other questions raised by the record as to the
sufficiency of the evidence and the effect of the acquittal
of Brown on his separate trial, at most involved questions
of state procedure only as to which the decision of the
state court is controlling. No tenable ground for attacking the constitutionality of the determination is suggested. In the brief and on the argument an attempt was
made to question the constitutionality of the provisions
of this statute dispensing with a jury trial in the forfeiture proceeding. But the record does not indicate that
a jury trial was demanded and the question is not raised
by the assignments of error. In any case the objection
is unsubstantial. Missouri ex rel. Hurwitz v. North, 271
U. S. 40; Hurfado v. California, 110 U. S.516; Walker
v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Kennard v. Louisiana ex rel.
Morgan, 92 U. S.480.
Affirmed.
HUGHES BROTHERS TIMBER COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 170.

Argued October 6, 7, 1926.--Decided November 23, 1926.

1. A State can not tax personal property which is in actual transit
in interstate commerce. P. 471.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

272 T.S.

2. Pursuant to a contract of sale, logs cut in Minnesota by the
vendors, were floated by river to Lake Superior, there loaded on
the vendee's vessels and transported to their destination in Michigan. Part of the price was paid when provisional inspection and
estimates of quantity, etc., were made by the vendee at river
landings, another part when the logs reached booms at or near
the place of their transferrence to the vessels, and the remainder
at destination. The wood was scaled by representatives of both
parties when stowed in the vessels and at destination. Liability
insurance was carried by the vendor, and cargo insurance by the
vendee. The vendor warranted title.
Held, that the logs had begun their continuous interstate journey with the beginning of their drive down the river, not with
their subsequent transfer to the vessels. Pp. 473, 475.
3. The contract and the method of complying with it were circumstances throwing light on the question whether the interstate transportation began at the beginning of the drive when the ice broke
up, or at the point of loading in the lake. P. 473.
4. The change in the method of transportation from floating to carriage on a vessel, did not affect the continuity of the interstate
passage. P. 474.
5. The interstate character of the movement of goods actually on
their way from one State to another is not destroyed by the fact
that the transportation is not by carrier but under control of the
owner, who may divert them to another destination. P. 475.
163 Minn. 4, reversed.
CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 542) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Minnesota which affirmed, with a
modification, a judgment for taxes on personal property,
recovered by the State of Minnesota in a special proceeding against the Hughes Bros. Timber Company. The tax
in question was assessed on some pulp wood which the
company alleged was at the time in actual transit from
Minnesota to Michigan and therefore was not subject to
taxation by Minnesota.

Mr. H. A. Carmichael, with whom Messrs. Oscar
Mitchell and W. D. Bailey were on the brief, for the
petitioner.

HUGHES BROS. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
469

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James E. Markham, Deputy Attorney General of
Minnesota, with whom Messrs. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General, G. A. Youngquist, Assistant Attorney General, and Harold H. Phelps were on the brief, for the
State of Minnesota.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a special proceeding in the District Court of
Cook County, Minnesota, by the State, through the
county treasurer, to collect taxes on personal property
owned by the Hughes Bros. Timber Company. With the
penalty and fees and costs, the amount sued for was
$2,919.50. The amount claimed by items appeared in a
delinquent list furnished by the treasurer to the sheriff
of the county for collection for the year 1922. It included
a tax upon 10,000 cords of pulp wood of the assessed value
of $21,233. In its answer as amended, the Timber Company pleaded that the pulp wood was not subject to taxation in the State of Minnesota at the time it was assessed,
May 1, 1922, but was at that time in actual transit in
interstate commerce by continuous route from the State
of Minnesota to the State of Michigan. This presents
the only question in the case.
The issue was submitted, without a jury, to the District Court, which found that the wood was not being
carried in interstate commerce. The result was a judginent against the Timber Company for $2,456.78, including a penalty. The case was appealed to the Supreme
Court, which held that the judgment of the District Court
was wrong in the penalty imposed, because the defendants had not been given opportunity to pay the correct
amount of the taxes, but with this modification affirmed
the judgment of the District Court. 163 Minn. 4. The
case is here by certiorari granted October 12, 1925. 269
U. S. 542.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 IT.S.

The Timber Company was a partnership, having its
office headquarters at Hovland, Cook County, Minnesota.
The Swamp River flows through the county and empties
into the Pigeon River. The latter forms the boundary
between Cook County, Minnesota, and the Province of
Ontario, Canada, and empties into Lake Superior. The
Timber Company's pulp wood was cut and gathered at
various places in the county, but was hauled to the Swamp
River and piled up on the ice and on its banks at a point
about two miles and a half above its discharge into the
Pigeon River. In October, 1921, the Timber Company
had made a contract with the Central Paper Company of
Muskegon, Michigan. By that contract the Timber Company agreed to deliver to the Paper Company, over the rail
of the Paper Company's vessels at the mouth of the Pigeon
River, approximately 10,000 cords of spruce pulp wood.
The Timber Company agreed to load the wood into them
as promptly as possible after its arrival. The Paper Company was to give to the Timber Company three days'
notice of the arrival of its vessels at the booms where the
logs were held. The wood was to be scaled and measured
by a representative of both parties when the first cargo
was loaded, and also on arrival at Muskegon, Michigan,
the measurement at Muskegon to be the basis for final
settlement. The price per cord was to be $12. The
Paper Company agreed to make progress estimates or
provisional measurements during the months of January,
February and March at river landings, and an advance
of $3 per cord for all wood inspected and measured, its
inspector to be properly assisted by the Timber Company.
The title to the wood on which advances were made was
to be in the name of the Paper Company and to be
branded at the time of provisional inspection and measurement. The Paper Company agreed to advance the
second 25 per cent., or $3 per cord, when the wood was delivered in the Pigeon River booms, and the balance, or $6
a cord, within five days after its delivery at Muskegon.

HUGHES BROS. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
469

Opinion of the Court.

Liability insurance was to be carried and paid by the
Timber Company, and cargo insurance was to be carried
and paid for by the Paper Company. There was a warranty of title and freedom from all encumbrances, by the
Timber Company.
The hauling and placing of the logs on the ice and on
the banks of the Swamp River were completed the latter
part of March. When the ice broke, April 29, 1922, the
drive of the logs began; those on the ice moved of themselves, and those on the banks were pushed in. The drive
was conducted by the Timber Company's men. It had
lasted eighteen days when the logs reached the Pigeon
iRiver booms. By the latter part of July, all the logs had
been shipped by vessels of the Paper Company on the lake
to Muskegon.
We do not think it important, for purposes of this case,
to decide where the title to the timber was at the time
the drive began. The Paper Company had an interest
in the timber and so had the Timber Company. Although
the point was at first made by the Timber Company that
the logs were not taxable in the name of the Timber Company, May 1, 1922, the day fixed as the tax day, that
point is not pressed. The contract and the method of
complying with it are all circumstances, however, throwing light on the question whether the transportation in interstate commerce began at the beginning of the drive,
when the ice broke up, or at the point of loading on the
lake.
The Timber Company was under contract to float the
timber down from the place of piling on the Swamp River
and deliver it as promptly as possible. The Paper Company by payment of $3.00 a ton had acquired a qualified
ownership in the timber even before it was segregated and
put to float. Had the Timber Company or some one
claiming under it attempted to stop the drive after it had
begun, and interfered with the passage of the timber

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 IT.S.

down the Swamp or Pigeon River, it would have been a
breach of the contract of sale. All this characterizes what
was being done in the drive between the Swamp River
entrepot and the mouth of the Pigeon River. That was
the beginning or first leg of the interstate journey. The
obligations of both parties accorded with that view. The
change in the method of transportation by floating to
carriage on a vessel did not affect the continuity of the
interstate passage, if such a passage was intended by the
parties and had begun, any more than did shipment by
local railroad bills of lading from a point in a State to a
port of the same State, for shipment by vessel to a foreign
port, prevent its being interstate or foreign commerce.
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S. 498; Ohio Railroad Commission v.
Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Texas, etc., R. R. Co. v.
Sabine Tram Company, 227 U. S. 111; R. R. Commission
v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336; Philadelphia
& Reading Ry. Co. v. Hancock, 253 U. S. 284, 286; B.
& 0. S. W. R. R. Co. v. Seattle, 260 U. S. 166, 170;
Spaulding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66, 70.
The case seems to us to come within the ruling of this
Court in the case of Champlain Company v. The Town
of Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366. That was a tax case like
this. There the owner had cut pulp wood in several towns
in Vermont. The wood was placed upon the banks of the
West River and its tributaries, to be floated down into the
Connecticut River and thence to its destination at the
mill of the owner in Hinsdale on the New Hampshire side
of the river. Four thousand of the cords had been floated
down the West River on the high water and reached a
boom at the mouth of the West River, but it was thought
not safe, in view of the high water, then to let the wood
into the Connecticut. It was contended that the logs
which were held in the boom at the mouth of the West
River were taxable there. We held otherwise; that the
interstate journey of the logs had already begun when

HUGHES BROS. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
469

475

Opinion of the Court.

the boom was reached, that the boom was not a depot
for the gathering of logs preparatory for the final journey,
that it was a safety appliance in the course of the final
journey, a harbor of refuge from danger to a shipment on
its way; that it was not used by the owner for any beneficial purpose of his own except to facilitate the safe
delivery of the wood in New Hampshire on the other side
of the Connecticut River.
This Court distinguished the facts in that case from
the facts in the main case discussed in Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S.517, as they can be distinguished here. It is clear
that the entrepot or depot for the interstate shipment of
logs was in the Swamp River. The drive in the two
rivers, though under the direction of the Timber Company, was not gathering the logs for subsequent interstate shipment; it was the interstate movement itself.
Both parties intended interstate shipment, they had
bound themselves to it, the logs were segregated and were
moving in the contemplated journey which neither could
prevent if they carried out their agreement. The delays
in the continuity of movement were only incidental to the
journey and the necessary change in the mode of transportation by which the logs were carried from a place in
one State to a place agreed upon in another.
The conclusion in cases like this must be determined
from the various circumstances. Mere intention by the
owner ultimately to send the logs out of the State does
not put them in interstate commerce, nor does preparatory gathering, for that purpose, at a depot. It must appear that the movement for another State has actually
begun and is going on. Solution is easy when the shipment has been delivered to a carrier for a destination in
another State. It is much more difficult when the owner
retains complete control of the transportation and can
change his mind and divert the delivery from the intended
interstate destination, as in the Champlain Company
case. The character of the shipment in such a case de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

pends upon all the evidential circumstances looking to
what the owner has done in the preparation for the journey and in carrying it out. The mere power of the owner
to divert the shipment already started does not take it
out of interstate commerce, if the other facts show that
the journey has already begun in good faith and temporary interruption of the passage is reasonable and in
furtherance of the intended transportation, as in the
Champlain case. Here the case is even stronger in that
the owner and initiator of the journey could not by his
contract divert the logs after they had started from
Swamp River without a breach of contract made by him
with his vendee, who, by the agreement of sale, divided
with him the responsibility for the cdntinuous interstate
transportation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is
reversed and remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 113.

Argued October 13, 1926.-Decided November 23, 19)26.

1. Through a system of contracts between a, company, which owned
the patents for electric lamps with tungsten filaments and manufactured most of those sold, and a large number of wholesale and
retail dealers in electrical supplies, the dealers were appointed
agents of the company to sell, on commission, the lamps, which
were to be consigned to them by the company, transportation
prepaid; the sales were to be at prices fixed by the company; the
dealers to pay all expenses except the original transportation, and
to account to the company periodically for the amount, less commission, of all sales, cash or credit; and all the stock entrusted
to the dealers was to remain the property of the company until
sold, and to be accounted for by the dealers.

