DUFFY v. MUTUAL BENEFIT CO.
(;05

Syllabus.

is not of legal significance. It is also urged that, even if
the Conunission has power to prescribe an automatic firebox door and a cab curtain, it has not done so; and that
it has made no other requirement inconsistent with the
state legislation. This, also, if true, is without legal
significance. The fact that the Commission has not seen
fit to exercise its authority to the full extent conferred,

has no bearing upon the construction of the Act delegating
the power. We hold that state legislation is precluded,
because the Boiler Inspection Act, as we construe it, was
intended to occupy the field. The broad scope of the
authority conferred upon the Commission leads to that
conclusion. Because the standard set by the Commission
must prevail, requirements by the States are precluded,
however commendable or however different their purpose.
Compare Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. State, 16 Ala.
App. 199; Whish v. Public Service Commission, 205 App.
Div. 756; 240 N. Y. 677; Staten Island Rapid Transit Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 16 Fed. (2d) 313.
If the protection now afforded by the Commission's
rules is deemed inadequate, application for relief must be
made to it. The Commission's power is ample. Obviously, the rules to be prescribed for this purpose need
not be uniform throughout the United States; or at all
seasons; or for all classes of service.
It No.87, decree affirmed.
In Nos. 310 and 311, judgment reversed.
DUFFY, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. MUTUAL
BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 108.

Argued October 21, 22, 1926.--Decided November 29, 1926.

1. The legal reserve of a mutual life insurance company, consisting
of premiums paid by the members, and earnings upon premiums
invested, is "invested capital," within the war excess profits tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

provisions of the Revenue Act of 1917, which (§ 207(a),) define
invested capital, in the case of a corporation or partnership, as
"(1) Actual cash paid in, (2) the actual cash value of tangible
property paid in other than cash, for stock or shares of such corporation or partnership . . . and (3) paid in or earned surplus

and undivided profits used or employed in the business," etc. P. 617.
2. A legal reserve so constituted, and used for the double purpose of
security and investment, is not a liability, though carried as such
on the books, but is assets of the company. P. 618.
3. Until the maturity of a policy, the policy holder is simply a member of the corporation, with a relation to it analogous to that of a
stockholder to a joint stock company: upon the maturity of the
policy he becomes a creditor with an enforceable right. P. 618.
4. Assuming that in § 207(a), supra, the words "actual cash paid in"
are qualified by the clause "for stock or shares in such corporation or partnership," the premiums paid by the policy holders of
a mutual life insurance company, are cash paid for "shares" in
the corporation. P. 619.
3 F. (2d) 1020, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

(268 U. S. 686) to a judgment of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the
District Court (295 Fed. 881) against Duffy, Collector
of Internal Revenue, in an action by the Insurance Company to recover the amount of an additional income tax
assessment, which had been paid by the Company under
protest.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
Newton K. Fox, Attorney in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for the petitioner.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. John 0. H.
Pitney, John, R. Hardin, Shelton Pitney, and John F.
Caskey were on the brief, for the respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case arises under the Revenue Act of 1917, c. 63, 40
Stat. 300, 302-306, imposing upon every corporation,

DUFFY v. MUTUAL BENEFIT CO.
613

Opinion of the Court.

partnership and individual a war excess profits tax. The
pertinent provisions of the Act are as follows:
"See. 201. That in addition to the taxes under existing
law and under this act there shall be levied, assessed, collected, and paid for each taxable year upon the income of
every corporation, partnership, or individual, a tax (hereinafter in this title referred to as the tax) equal to the
following percentages of the net income:
"Twenty per centum of the amount of the net income
in excess of the deduction (determined as hereinafter provided) and not in excess of fifteen per centum of the invested capital for the taxable year; . . .
"Sec. 203. That for the purposes of this title the deduction shall be as follows, except as otherwise in this title
provided"(a) In the case of a domestic corporation, the sum of
(1) an amount equal to the same percentage of the invested capital for the taxable year which the average
amount of the annual net income of the trade or business
during the prewar period was of the invested capital for
the prewar period (but not less than seven or more than
nine per centum of the invested capital for the taxable
year), and (2) $3,000; . . .
"Sec. 207. That as used in this title, the term 'invested
capital' for any year means the average invested capital
for the year, as defined and limited in this title, averaged
monthly.
"As used in this title 'invested capital' does not include stocks, bonds (other than obligations of the United
States), or other assets, the income from which is not subject to the tax hnposed by this title, nor money or other
property borrowed, and means, subject to the above
limitations:
" (a) In the case of a corporation or partnership: (1)
Actual cash paid in, (2) the actual cash value of tangible

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

property paid in other than cash, for stock or shares in
such corporation or partnership, at the time of such payment (but in case such tangible property was paid in prior
to January first, nineteen hundred and fourteen, the
actual cash value of such property as of January first,
nineteen hundred and fourteen, but in no case to exceed
the par value of the original stock or shares specifically
issued therefor), and (3) paid in or earned surplus and
undivided profits used or employed in the business, exclusive of undivided profits earned during the taxable
year:.
By § 200 it is provided that the term "corporation" includes joint-stock companies or associations and insurance companies, and we assume that this includes nonstock mutual insurance companies as well as those having
capital stock.
Respondent is a mutual company having no capital
stock; and its policyholders constitute its members. Its
business has always been conducted upon the "level
premium plan," under which the estimated annual cost of
the insurance is averaged and the maximum annual contribution of each member is uniform throughout the life
of the policy. The annual contributions during the early
years of the policy are in excess of the natural premiums,
and such excess premiums, augmented by interest thereon, are held as a reserve to maintain the insurance in
the later years. These contributions (or premiums), together with the increment derived from their investment,
constitute the sole assets of the company. A more complete statement of the plan will be found in the opinion
of the district court in this case, 295 Fed. 881, and cases
cited in that opinion at p. 883.
The company is required by state laws, as a condition
of continuing business, to maintain its assets at a sum not
less than the amount of the "legal reserve" required by
such laws. For the year 1917 the legal reserve amounted

DUFFY v. MUTUAL BENEFIT CO.
613

Opinion of the Court.

to something over $186,000,000. In addition to the legal
reserve, the company maintained a second or " contingent
reserve" as a margin of safety to meet contingencies.
The two reserves are not segregated in any way or
separately identified or invested. The funds therein, constituting the company's entire assets, are invested in its
office building and in government bonds and other securities. The income resulting from the investments is returned for federal taxation and is taxed. For the year
1917 the sum of the two reserves was returned by the company as invested capital for that taxable year. The net
income shown for the year was $1,808,339.33, upon which
the company paid an income tax of $108,500.36, but no
excess profits tax. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue amended the returns and, thereupon, levied an additional assessment against the company amounting to
$83,779.70. This was accomplished, so far as necessary
to be now considered, by deducting from the amount of
invested capital as returned the sum of $186,258,796,
being the exact amount of the legal reserve, and reducing
the company's invested capital for the year to the sum of
$14,719,043.76. It is agreed that if, instead of this latter
sum, the company's invested capital had been computed
at any sum in excess of $25,500,000, no war excess profits
tax would have been due.
The company paid the amount of the additional assessment under protest and brought this action to recover
it. The collector moved to strike out the complaint as
insufficient in law. It was stipulated that the decision
on the motion should be a final disposition of the controversy. The district court denied the motion and ren,dered judgment for the full amount, with interest. 295
Fed. 881. This judgment was affirmed by the circuit
court of appeals. 3 F. (2d) 1020.
The question for determination is whether the funds
constituting the legal reserve, or sufficient thereof to make

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

up as much as $25,500,000 when added to the amount
allowed by the commissioner, is invested capital within the
meaning of § 207 (a) of the Revenue Act. The contention of the collector is that under subdivisions (1) and
(2), § 207 (a), invested capital must be either cash or
tangible property paid in for stock or shares of the corporation, and inasmuch as the company has no capital
represented by stock or shares, its legal reserve is not invested capital within the meaning of those subdivisions;
that the legal reserve is not surplus or undivided profits
within the meaning of subdivision (3), because it is ,no
more than the equivalent of the obligations of the coinpany at the time under its policies of insurance. It is
contended that the legal reserve represents a present
existing liability; and stress is put upon the fact that
it is carried by the company on the liability side of its
ledger.
It appears from the complaint that the company has
been in business since the year 1845. During that time
the amount of its assets has increased, year by year, from
about $20,000 in 1846 to over $200,000,000 in 1917, divided
between the legal reserve and the contingent reserve, as
already stated. The legal reserve includes $70,000,000 premiums theretofore paid and $116,000,000 earnings upon
investments. The legal reserve, therefore, constitutes assets of a very permanent character. Originally consisting
of the contributions of members only, the earnings now
make up considerably more than one-half of the whole.
The contributions were made for, and have been used to
serve, the double purpose of protection and of investment. These assets, thus constituted, have never represented indebtedness any more than the capital of a stock
corporation subscribed by its stockholders represents indebtedness. Until the maturity of a policy, the policyholder is simply a member of the corporation, with no
present enforceable right against the assets. Upon the

DUFFY v. MUTUAL BENEFIT CO.
613

Opinion of the Court.

maturity of the policy he becomes a creditor with an enforceable right. Then for the first time there is an indebtedness. See _Mayer v. Attorney General, 32 N. J.
Eq. 815, 820-822. In the meantime, each member bears a
relation to the mutual company analogous to that which
a stockholder bears to the joint-stock company in which
he holds stock. In either case, the title to the assets is
in the corporation and not in the members or stockholders.
True, the amount of the reserve is carried on the books
as a liability, but only as the capital stock of a stock
corporation is carried on its books as a liability. In both
instances, it is a form of bookkeeping to balance assets,
which in the one case are contributed by the members, and
in the other by the stockholders. If § 207 (a) subdivisions (1) and (2) had defined invested capital as "actual
cash paid in," without more, it probably would not be
doubted that the part of the legal reserve derived from
premiums would be included. The doubt results from
the use of the additional words "for stock or shares in
such corporation or partnership." The collector says these
words qualify the phrase "(1) actual cash paid in" as
well as the phrase which they immediately follow, "(2)
the actual cash value of tangible property paid in." For
present purposes we shall assume this to be so-although
there is a plausible argument on the other side to the
contrary-and consider the case accordingly. The mutual company is not a stock company, and the word
"stock" may be put aside as having no application to it.
It is clear that since the word "stock" does not describe
interests in partnerships, included expressly along with
corporations in the same paragraph, the word "shares"
must be held to do so. And if that word is broad enough
to include partnership interests, it is broad enough to include the interests held by members in non-stock corporations.

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

To hold the contrary would be to so limit the application of subdivisions (1) and (2) of § 207 (a) as altogether to exclude therefrom those corporations which
have no capital stock. We cannot suppose that Congress
intended such a result; but must conclude that it used the
word "stock" as appropriate in the case of stock corporaions and the word "shares" as appropriate in the case
of partnerships and non-stock corporations. Such an interpretation does no violence to the ordinary meaning of
the word, for while it is entirely proper to speak of
"stock" as "shares" it is equally proper to designate the
several interests in a common fund as "shares." To the
extent of $70,000,000 the legal reserve consisted of "actual cash paid in" by the members. These payments
were intended for investment, and were invested, to increase the resources of the company and thereby reduce
the cost of the insurance; and it requires no stretch of the
realities to say that, within the meaning of subdivisions
(1) and (2), § 207 (a), the fund which they created is
invested capital. This is enough to relieve the company
from the payment of any war excess profits tax, and it is
unnecessary to inquire whether the remaining $116,000,000
is to be regarded as earned surplus under subdivision (3).
Judgment affirmed.
FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 251.

Argued October 13, 14, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.

A scheme for obtaining money, by means of intimidation through
threats of murder and bodily harm, is not a "scheme to defraud,"
within the meaning of Crim. Code § 215, (Rev. Stats. § 54S0,)
punishing the use of the mails for the purpose of executing any
"scheme or artifice to defraud," etc. P. 625.
7 F. (2d) 961, reversed.

