OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.

21

Syllabus.

izes the giving of judgment against the United States
for these items or authorizes the Attorney General or
other counsel in the case to consent to such a judgment.
No such authority is necessary for the proper conduct of
litigation on behalf of the United States, and there is no
ground for implying that authority. It-follows that the
-direction for judgment against the United States for costs
cannot be sustained. That part of the decree will be
eliminated; and the decree, so modified, will be affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed as modified.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE STONE took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS; UNITED STATES, INTERVENOR.
IN EQUITY.

No. 6, Original. Argued November 25, 1925.-Decided October 11,
1926.
1. The effect of a decree as an adjudication conclusive upon the
parties, is not to be determined by isolated passages in the
opinion considering the rights of the parties, but upon an examination of the issues made and intended to be submitted, and which
it was intended to decide. P. 42.
2. In the "Greer County Case," (United States v. Texas, 162
U. S. 1), it was conclusively determined that the boundary line
between Texas and the territories of the United States followed
the line of the true 100th meridian from its intersection with the
South Fork of Red River, but the precise location of the meridian
line was left open. P. 39.
3. A boundary line between two governments which has been run
out, located and marked upon the earth, and afterwards recognized and acquiesced in by them for a long course of years, is
conclusive, even if it be ascertained that it varies somewhat from
the correct course; the line so established taking effect, in such
case, as a definition of the true and ancient boundary. P. 44.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

272 U. S.

4. Upon the facts, it is found that the "Jones, Brown and Clark
Line," run in 1859 and 1860 as a location of the 100th meridian
between the south bank of the Red River and the parallel of
thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north latitude, and claimed by
Oklahoma to be the boundary between that State and Texas,
has not been accepted and acquiesced in as the established boundary by the United States, Texas, or Oklahoma. P. 44.
5. Quaere, Whether twenty-four years' acquiescence by one State in'
the possession of territory under claim of right, and in the exercise
of dominion and sovereignty over it, by another State, is sufficient
in time to found a prescriptive right in the latter. P. 47.
6. The fact that the Territory and the State of Oklahoma in succession have continuously for twenty-four years enforced their
civil and criminal laws over the area in dispute, does not establish the State's claim to it by prescription, in view of the fact that
even during that period assertion of a claim of right (by the
United States when Oklahoma was a territory,) on the one hand,
and acquiescence therein (by Texas,) upon the other, were not
continuous. P. 47.
7. Where, prior to the admission of Oklahoma to statehood, a federal surveyor, pursuant to an Act of Congress, attempted to
locate the true intersection of the 100th meridian with the South
Fork of the Red River, and marked the location by a monument,
and this was approved by the Secretary of the Interior and adopted
by Texas, but not by Congress, as marking the corner in the
boundary, held that the facts did not sustain the claim of Texas
that the boundary was thus established by acquiescence, as a line
to be run north from the monument. P. 48.
8. The boundary between Oklahoma and the Panhandle of Texas is
the line of the true 100th meridian extending north from its intersection with the south bank of the South Fork of Red River to its
intersection with the parallel of thirty-six degrees and thirty
minutes. P. 49.

Original suit brought by Oklahoma against Texas, to
establish their boundary on the Red River. A number
of opinions, orders, and decrees of the Court relative to
that primary phase of the litigation have already been
reported. The present opinion deals with another portion of the boundary which was brought into the case by
the counterclaim of Texas. See 269 U. S. 314, 539, and
other references in the opinion.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Thomas W. Gregory and R. H. Ward, with
whom Messrs. C. W. Taylor, Orville Bullington, A. H.
Carrigan,C. M. Cureton, and W. A. Keeling were on the
brief, for The State of Texas, on the counterclaim.
Mr. S. P. Freeling,with whom Messrs. George F. Short
and Edwin Dabney were on the brief, for The State of
Oklahoma.
Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant Attorney General Parmenter were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the State of Oklahoma against
the State of Texas, in 1919, to settle a controversy between them over that portion of their common boundary
extending westwardly along the course of the Red River
from the southeast corner of Oklahoma to the 100th meridian of longitude west from Greenwich. This portion
of the boundary line, it has been decided, extends along
the south bank of the River. 256 U. S. 70 and 608; 258
U. S. 574.
The present controversy arises under a counterclaim
filed by the State of Texas, in 1920. It relates to that
portion of the boundary line extending northwardly
along the 100th meridian from the Red River to the parallel of 36 degrees 30 minutes north latitude, which constitutes the eastern boundary of the Panhandle of Texas
and the main western boundary of Oklahoma. The only
dispute is as to the location of this line upon the ground.
Different surveys have been made. On the one side, Oklahoma and the United States claim that the line is that
which was surveyed and marked in 1859 by A. H. Jones
and H. M. C. Brown as the line of the 100th meridian,

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

and retraced and extended in 1860 by John H. Clark;
and, on the other side, Texas claims that it is a more
easterly line, running north from a monument established,
by Arthur D. Kidder in 1902 to mark the intersection of
the meridian and the Red River.
Three separate contentions are made:
1. Oklahoma and the United States contend that by
the decision and decree of this court in United States v.
Texas, 162 U. S. 1, commonly called the Greer County
case, it was conclusively determined and decreed that
the boundary line followed the line of the meridian as
surveyed and marked on the ground by Jones, Brown
and Clark, and th6 matter thereby became res judicata.
2. Oklahoma contends that, independently of this adjudication, the Jones, Brown and Clark line has been
recognized as the true location of the meridian through
a long course of years and is established as the boundary
line by acquiescence and by long continued exercise of
jurisdiction over the strip in dispute. 3. Texas on the
other hand, contends that a line running north from the
Kidder monument is the established boundary.
By the treaty of 1819 between the United States and
Spain I the boundary line established between the two
countries followed the course of the Red River westward
to the 100th degree of west longitude, and, crossing the
Red River, ran thence due north to the Arkansas River;
all "as laid down in Melish's map of the United States."
The same line was established by the treaty of 1828 between the United States and the United Mexican States,'
and confirmed by the Convention of 1838 between the
United States and the Republic of Texas;' and it became
part of the boundary between the State of Texas and
the adjacent territory of the United States on the ad1S Stat. 252.

Stat. 372.
3Treaties and Conventions of the United States, 1079.
28

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

mission of Texas into the Union in 1845." In 1850, however, by a legislative compact between the United States
and the State of Texas, it was agreed that the northern
boundary line of Texas should run west with the parallel
of 36 degrees 30 minutes from its intersection with the
100th meridian;' so that we are not now concerned with
the portion of the meridian extending north of that
parallel.
Since 1850 many steps have been taken-at long intervals--looking to the establishment of the line of the meridian between the Red River and the parallel. To rightly
understand the course of the legislation it should be
borne in mind: first, that the Red River forks about
sixty miles east of the strip of land now in dispute, the
South Fork passing along its southern end, and the North
Fork crossing it about forty miles to the north; and, secondly, that on Melish's map of the United States the
100th meridian was erroneously shown as crossing the
Red River more than one hundred miles east of this
strip, and east of the fork in the River.' These two facts
gave rise to a controversy in reference to the location of
the other boundary line along the course of the Red
River, which, although now long determined, was interwoven with the question as to the location of the line
of the meridian north of the River and complicated the
issues involved in its settlement.
In the light of this preliminary statement we proceed
to set forth, in chronological order, the material facts-,
necessary to the determination of the contentions now
made.
'Joint Res., 5 Stat. 797; Joint Res., 9 Stat. 108.
59 Stat. 446, c. 49; 2 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, 267; President's
Proclamation, 9 Stat. 1005.
6 See copy of Melish's map, 162 U. S. 1, 52; also House Report No.
1595, 58th Cong., 2d sess., p. 2.
7 These are shown, in the main, by an agreed statement of facts.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The first step towards the location of the boundary
line was taken by the Texas Legislature, which in 1854
authorized the appointment of a commissioner, who, with
a commissioner for the United States, should run and
mark the entire boundary line between Texas and the
territories of the United States from the point where it
left the Red River to its intersection with the Rio
Grande.8
Pending action by Congress in this matter, the
United States, by a treaty made with the Choctaw and
Chickasaw Indians in 1855,1 awarded them a tract of land
in the Indian territory whose western boundary was described as running north from the Red River along the
100th meridian to the main Canadian River. In 1857,
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, for the purpose of
marking the boundaries of the Indian lands, employed
two contract surveyors, A. H. Jones and H. Al. C. Brown,
to survey and mark the line of the meridian from the
north bank of the main Red River to the north boundary
of the Creek or Seminole country.
Before Jones and Brown had commenced this survey,
Congress, in 1858, authorized the appointment of a joint
commissioner to run and mark the boundary line between
the Territories of the United States and Texas in accordance with the Texas Act of 1854.'0 The commissioners
began their work on the Rio Grande, but differences soon
arose, which caused them to separate; and the survey
was continued solely by John H. Clark, the United States
commissioner, who ran and marked a large part of the
western boundary of Texas and its northern boundary
along the parallel."
8 3 Gammel's Laws of the State of Texas, 1525.

And see prior

Joint Resolution to the same effect, lb., 206.
9 11 Stat. 611.
10 11 Stat. 310, c. 92.
11 Clark's reports appear in Sen. Ex. Doc. No. 70, 47th Cong., 1st
sess.; and a summary in House Doc. No. 635, 57th Cong., 1st sess.,
p. 14.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

Meanwhile Jones and Brown had made, in 1859, their
survey of the boundary of the Indian lands. They began at a rock monument on the north bank of the South
Fork of Red River, placed to mark the intersection of
the 100th meridian with that stream, and ran the line
of the meridian northwardly from this monument about
109 miles, marking it with mile posts.12
In February, 1860, the Texas Legislature-then claiming, it appears, that the boundary line along the Red
River followed the line of the North Fork-created the
County of Greer, with a boundary including, in general
terms, all the territory lying east of the 100th meridian
and between the North and South Forks of the River; this
being a tract containing more than 2,000 square miles
and extending about sixty miles east of the Jones and
Brown line."
Later in 1860, Clark, the United States commissioner,
under instructions from the Secretary of the Interior,
adopted and retraced so much of the line of the meridian
as had been established by Jones and Brown, and prolonged their line to its intersection with the parallel,
where he established an earth monument to mark the
northeast corner of Texas. 4
For many years after 1-860 Texas asserted complete
jurisdiction over the territory included in Greer County.'5
12Sce report of Commissioner of the General Land Office, House
Report No. 1282, 47th Cong., 1st sess.; and House Doe. No. 635, 57th
Cong., 1st sess., p. 12. It appears that Jones and Brown adopted as
the beginning of their survey the monument which had been erected
earlier in the same year by Daniel G. Major, the astronomer for
Indian boundary surveys.
13 2 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, 490. This meridian was described
in the Act as "the twenty-third degree of west longitude," this being
the longitude from Washington. The tract is that marked on a map
in 162 U. S. 1, 22, as " Unassigned Land."
14 See Clark's report, Sen. Ex. Doe. No. 70, 47th Cong., 1st sess.,
p. 300.
I' See House Report No. 1595, 58th Cong., 2d sess., p. 3.

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

At different times from 1872 to 1875, four United States
contract surveyors separately retraced different portions
of the Jones, Brown, and Clark line of the 100th meridian
and re-established most of it by rebuilding many of the
mile posts. They also, at the same times, subdivided the
public lands in the western part of the Indian Territory
in a series of townships closing on the west upon the line
thus retraced and re-established, on which they erected
the closing corners of the townships. 6
In 1876 the Texas Legislature established a series of
five new counties lying west of the Jones, Brown and
Clark line and extending southwardly from the parallel
beyond the South Fork of Red River. Their eastern line
commenced "at a monument on the intersection of the
one hundredth meridian" and the parallel, and called
for five "mile posts on the one hundredth meridian" and
"the initial monument on the one hundredth meridian."
One of these counties and parts of two others lay between
the North and South Forks of Red River, and two of
these "mile posts" and the "initial monument" were
between the two Forks, that is, between these counties
and Greer County."
In 1879 Congress passed an Act creating the northern
judicial district of the State of Texas, in which Greer
County was included. 8
In January, 1882, the Secretary of the Interior, in
response to a Resolution of the Senate calling for a report
of any survey made by the United States and Texas
Boundary Commission under the Act of 1858, trans-6See report of Arthur D. Kidder, special examiner of surveys,
House Report No. 1186, 59th Cong., 1st sess., p. 8, and the Field
Notes and Plats of the Indian Territory to which he refers; Id., 45
Cong. Rec. 6109.
17 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, 505. The lines of these counties are
given in 162 U. S. 1, 40, note 1, and their location is shown on the
map at p. 22.
1820 Stat. 318, c. 97.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

mitted a report of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office in which, after setting forth the work that had
been separately done by Clark in running the western
and northern boundaries of Texas, the establishment of
part of the line of the 100th meridian by Jones and
Brown, and the retracing of their line by Clark, he specifically called attention to the fact that: "No part of
said boundary survey has ever been officially agreed upon
or accepted by the two governments as contemplated in
the Act of Congress authorizing the survey." This report was referred to the Senate Committee on
Territories. 9
At this same session of Congress-a controversy having
meanwhile arisen as to the ownership of the territory
included in Greer County-a Representative from Texas
introduced a bill to define the boundary between the Indian Territory and Texas as running up the middle of the
North Fork of the Red River to the 100th meridian, and
thence due north to "the northeast corner of said State
of Texas as now established; 20 while a Senator from
Texas introduced a bill to create a joint commission to
run and mark the boundary line along the course of the
Red River westwardly to the 100th meridian, as laid
down in Melish's map, and definitely settle which Fork
was the principal or true Red River.2 And before the
19 Sen. Ex. Doc. No. 70, 47th Cong., 1st sess. Many years later, in
1906, the House Committee on the Judiciary again called attention to
the fact that up to the date of this report of the Secretary of the
Interior no part of the boundary "had ever been officially agreed
upon or accepted by Texas or the United States, as contemplated in
the Act" of 1858. House Report No. 1186, 59th Cong., 1st sess., p. 3.
20 H. R. 1715, 47th Cong., 1st sess. This bill was reported upon
adversely by the House Judiciary Committee, which recommended
the creation of a joint commission to settle the facts involved in the
Greer County controversy. House Report No. 1282, 47th Cong., 1st
ses. This report appears in 162 U. S. 1, 69, note 1.
21 S. 954, 47th Cong., 1st sess.
This bill passed the Senate. 13
Cong. Rec. 3027.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

end of this session, the legislature of Texas, in May, 1882,
passed an Act authorizing the appointment of a commissioner to run and mark, with a commissioner for the
United States, the course of the Red River westwardly
to the 100th degree of west longitude, as laid down on
Melish's map, in order to settle the true location of the
meridian and determine whether the North or South
Fork was the true Red River designated in the treaty
of 1819; and to establish a monument where the meridian
crossed the River as a corner in the boundary."'
Congress took no final action in reference to any part
of the boundary line at this session. In 1885, however,
it passed an Act, reciting that a controversy existed between the United States and Texas as to the point where
the 100th degree of longitude crossed the River, as described in the treaty, which had never been ascertained
and fixed by any authority competent to bind the United
States and Texas, and which should be settled so that the
boundary then in dispute because of the difference of
opinion as to this crossing might also be settled; and
authorizing the President to designate officers who, in
conjunction with such persons as might be appointed by
Texas, should ascertain and mark the point where the
100th meridian crossed the Red River, in accordance with
the terms of the treaty. -"
In 1887 the President issued a proclamation reciting
that the United States owned all of the territory lying
between the 100th meridian and the North and South
Forks of the Red River, but that the State of Texas had
asserted a conflicting claim thereto growing out of a
controversy as to the point where the meridian crossed
the Red River, as described in the treaty of 1819, and
that the United States commissioners appointed under
the Act of 1885 had by their report determined that the
22 9 Gammel's Laws of the State of Texas, 265.
.2323 Stat. 296. c. 47.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

South Fork was the true Red River designated in the
treaty, but the Texas commissioners had refused to concur in this report; and admonishing and warning the
officers of Greer County and all other persons against
exercising or attempting to exercise any authority over
these lands."
In 1890 Congress created the Territory of Oklahoma
out of a portion of the Indian Territory bounded on the
west and south by the boundary lines of the State of
Texas; -" and by the same Act directed that a suit in
equity be brought in this Court on behalf of the United
States against the State of Texas, to settle the controversy
as to the title to the land included in Greer County lying
east of the 100th meridian, and between the Forks of the
Red River. The suit was instituted in the same year.
In 1891 the surveys made by Clark, the United States
commissioner, under the Act of 1858, of the western and
northern boundary lines of Texas, were " confirmed" by
an Act of Congress-a and by a Joint Resolution of the
Texas Legislature;' but neither the Act nor the Resolution made any reference to the survey of the eastern
boundary.
In 1892 H. S. Pritchett, Director of the Astronomical
Observatory of Washington University, St. Louis, was
employed by Texas to establish, scientifically and accurately, the intersection of the 100th meridian with the
Red River. He located this intersection 3797.3 feet east
of the Jones and Brown initial monument.2 8
In 1896 this Court decided the Greer County case, and
entered a decree adjudging that the territory east of the
21 23 Stat. 843.
The report of the United States commissioners
appears in House Ex. Doc. No. 21, 50th Cong., 1st sess.
,526 Stat. 81, 92, c.182.
2126
Stat. 948, 971, c. 542.
27 10 Gammel's Laws of the State of Texas, 195.
24 His report appears in House Doc. No. 635, 57th Cong., 1st sess.,
p. 31.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

100th meridian of longitude between the North Fork of
the Red River and the south bank of the South Fork,
called Greer County, constituted no part of the territory
belonging to Texas, but was subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. United States v. Texas,
supra, 90.
In 1901 Congress passed a Act, in which, after reciting
that this Court had adjudged in the Greer County case
that "the degree of longitude one hundred west " designated in the treaty of 1819, "referred to the true one
hundredth meridian astronomically located," and that
"the true intersection of this meridian" with the South
Fork of Red River had not been fixed by the United States
and Texas, acting together, nor "by the decree in said
cause," the Secretary of the Interior was directed to cause
"the intersection of the true one hundredth meridian"
with the South Fork of the River, to be established and
fixed "by the most accurate and scientific methods," and
29
a suitable monument to be erected at such intersection.
Pursuant to this Act the Secretary of the Interior detailed Arthur D. Kidder,-Examiner of Surveys, to establish the point of intersection of the true meridian with
the River. He did this work in 1902, making his observations and calculations according to the scientific inethods then in use; determined that the true meridian intersected the South Fork at a point 3699.7 feet east of the
initial monument of Jones and Brown, and 97.6 feet
west of Pritchett's location; and placed a sandstone
monument on the north side of the stream to mark the
point of intersection as thus determined. His report and
field notes were approved by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office and adopted by the Secretary of the
Interior, who transmitted copies of them to the House
of Representatives, and reported, in accordance therewith,
that he had caused "the intersection of the true one
29 31 Stat. 731,

c. 75.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

hundredth meridian with the Red River" to be determined and established by a permanent monument in
compliance with the Act of 1901.30
In March, 1903, Kidder, who meanwhile had been
further detailed by the Secretary of the Interior, as astronomer and surveyor, to establish and mark upon the
ground the point of intersection of the 100th meridian
with the parallel of 36 degrees 30 minutes, and three other
astronomical points in the boundary of Texas, was directed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office to
establish these standard reference points, and also to "ascertain the condition of the old boundary lines, the
amount of error in the original surveys and

.

.

.

the

changes which a true determination would involve," and
specifically, to "make a careful retracement of the 100th
meridian as closed upon in the survey of public lands in
Oklahoma from the Red River north to the parallel."
Before Kidder had completed this supplemental work,
the Texas Legislature in April, 1903, authoriied the appointment of a commissioner to run and mark with a comnissioner for the United States, the boundary lines between Texas and the Territories of Oklahoma and New
Mexico."' This Act recited that Kidder had duly fixed a
monument at the intersection of the true 100th meridian
with the Red River, as provided by the Act of Congress
of 1901, which properly marked the boundary, and required a re-survey of the lines between Texas and Oklahoma; and directed that the monument established by
Kidder as the point of intersection should "be accepted as
correct."
Kidder completed his supplemental work on the boundary line in 1903, and made a detailed report to the Secretary of the Interior in April, 1904, which was trans30 House Doc. No. 33, 57th Cong., 2d sess.; Id., 45 Cong. Ree. 6105
Field notes, House Doe. No. 375, 57th Cong., 2d sess.
31 Texas General Laws, 1st Call. Sess., 1903, p. 12.
2316' -27-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

mitted to the House of Representatives in December,
1905.2 The portion of this report dealing with the 100th
meridian shows that he retraced the entire Jones, Brown,
and Clark line, as it had been re-established and closed
upon by the various contract surveyors between 1872 and
1875, and found that, beginning at the initial monument
of Jones and Brown on the bank of the South Fork of Red
River, it deflected gradually to the east, and intersected
the line of the parallel 743.16 feet west of the line of the
100th meridian extended north through the monument
which he had previously placed on the South Fork. He
found no evidence of the monument established by Clark
in 1860 to mark this intersection. At the easterly point
which Kidder determined to be the intersection of the
parallel and the true meridian he placed a concrete and
iron monument, but he did not mark the intervening line
of the meridian. He also found that since the execution
of the surveys closing upon the Jones, Brown and Clark
line, the United States had patented and disposed of public lands on the east, and that Texas had apparently closed
its surveys on the same line for a large part of the distance.
In December, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior transmitted to the House of Representatives, the draft of a bill
submitted by the Commissioner of the General Land 0ffice to provide for the re-survey and re-establishment of
portions of the boundary lines between Texas and the
Territories of New Mexico and Oklahoma, including the
line of the 100th meridian from the Red River to the
parallel of 36 degrees 30 minutes. This was accompanied
by a letter from the Commissioner, in which he stated that
large errors had been discovered in the location of the
100th and 103rd meridians, and that the agitation concerning questions of jurisdiction which had been prolific
House Doe. No. 259, 59th Cong., 1st sess., with diagram; Id.,
House Report No. 1186, 59th Cong., 1st sess., and 45th Cong. Ree.
6108.
32

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

on account of these incorrect locations, could only be
ended by the establishment of lines upon the ground in
the locations where they were designed to be when these
meridians were named as the boundaries of Texas. These
were referred to the House Committee on Public Lands."
In 1905 and 1906 a Representative from Texas introduced in the House of Representatives two bills and a
joint resolution to provide for the running and marking of
the boundary line between Texas and the Territories of
the United States, in substantially the same terms as the
Texas Act of 1903; except that, while accepting as correct Kidder's location of the intersection of the true 100th
meridian with the Red River, they directed that the line
be run north to the intersection of the meridian with the
parallel of 36 degrees 30 minutes as determined by Clark,
the United States commissioner, in 1859.1' These bills
were recommended for passage by the House Committees
on the Judiciary and on Indian Affairs, respectively, but
no further action was had in reference to them."
Again, in October, 1907, the Secretary of the Interior
wrote a letter to the House of Representatives recommending the adoption of a Joint Resolution, a draft of
which he enclosed, for the appointment of commissioners
to establish the boundary between Texas and the Territories of the United States, substantially in accordance
with the Texas Act of 1903, and likewise providing that
the monument established by Kidder as the point of
intersection of the true 100th meridian should "be accepted as correct." In this letter, after calling attention
to the fact that no action had been taken by Congress in
this matter, he said: "The adjustment of these lines is of
3 House Doc. No. 38, 58th Cong., 3d sess.
SBill, H. R. 443, 59th Cong., 1st sess.; House Joint Res. No. 66,
59th Cong., 1st sess.; Bill, H. R. 15098, 59th Cong., 1st sess.
35 House Report No. 1186, 59th Cong., 1st sess.; House Report No.
1788, 59th Cong., 1st sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

great interest to the department, because they involve
both public lands and lands of the Choctaw Indians, and
until they are adjusted present problems and embarrassments which cannot be solved or removed until the lines
are definitely fixed and marked. The continued unsettled
condition of these boundary lines adds to the problems
and involves the Government, settlers on the public
lands, and citizens of the Indian tribes and of the State
.
of which they
of Texas in trouble and expense
should be relieved at the earliest possible moment." This
letter and resolution was referred to the House Judiciary
Committee.36
In November, 1907, Oklahoma was admitted as a State
of the Union. 7
In 1910 the House Committee on Indian Affairs recommended for passage another Joint Resolution introduced
by the Representative from Texas for the creation of a
commission to establish and mark the boundary lines
between Texas and the Territories of the United States,
corresponding to the Joint Resolution which had been
recommended by the Secretary of the Interior in 1907,"
but no further action was taken by Congress in reference
to the matter.
In 1910 also, one John L. Wortham filed applications
with the surveyors of the five counties that had been
created in 1876, under the provisions of the Texas Acts
authorizing the sale of vacant land, for the purchase from
the State of the land on the east of these counties lying
in the strip now in dispute, between the Jones, Brown
and Clark line and Kidder's location of the 100th meridian, which had not been previously embraced in the
land surveys of these counties. One of these surveyors
House Doe. No. 54, 60th Cong., 1st sess.
Proclamation, 35 Stat. 2160.
38 House Joint Res. No. 6, 61st Cong., 2d sess.; House Report No.
1250, 61st Cong., 2d sess.
36

37 President's

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

having refused to make a survey for the purpose of obtaining a grant, it was held by the Texas Court of Civil
Appeals, in 1912, that mandamus would not lie to compel
him so to do, on the ground, substantially, that as the
undisputed facts show that the State of Texas was not
exercising jurisdiction over this land, it was not the duty
of the county surveyor to survey lands which the political
powers of the State recognized as lying beyond its limits,
and the court had no jurisdiction to determine whether
the de facto boundary line was the de jure boundary of
the State, this being a political and not a judicial question. Wortham v. Sullivan, 147 S. W. 702. On the other
hand, however, surveys having been made by other county
surveyors and the applications returned to the General
Land Office of Texas, three patents were issued to
Wortham by the State of Texas later in the same year
covering 2002 acres of the strip of land in dispute; this
being the only part of this strip which Texas has ever
attempted to patent. Since that time, it is stipulated,
the award to Wortham of other lands in this strip has
been held in abeyance "on account of the shadow of
doubt cast upon the legal status of the aforesaid Kidder
line," but "the General Land Office of Texas has in no
sense abandoned its claim to the area west of and adjacent to" that line.
In 1919 the Texas Legislature passed an Act reciting
the existence of a controversy between Texas and Oklahoma, and possibly the United States and certain Indian
tribes, concerning the boundaries between the two States,
and directed that a suit be instituted in this Court for the
purpose of determining and settling these boundaries. 9
But before this suit had been commenced the State of
Oklahoma brought its suit in the present cause, in which,
as has been stated, the State of Texas set up by counter' Concurrent Resolution, 2d Call. Sess., General Laws of Texas,
1919, p. 462.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

claim its contention in respect to the location of the
100th meridian.
In 1923 the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey
undertook to locate the portion of the 100th meridian in
controversy by a modern and scientific method of triangulation, and concluded that the true meridian ran 371.5
feet east of the Kidder monument.
In addition to the foregoing matters the parties have
stipulated that "the United States, the Territory of Oklahoma and the State of Oklahoma in succession have continuously enforced their laws, civil and criminal over the
strip here in dispute ever since the decision in the Greer
County Case."
It further appears that prior to May 3, 1920, the United
States had disposed of 20,657 acres in the strip in dispute
by patents issued on homestead entries and public sales,
for which it had collected $8,026; that 3118 acres had
been included in the school and university grants to Oklahoma; and that there were then 318 acres in pending
entries, leaving, it was estimated, 118 acres of vacant land.
The dates of these patents and grants are not shown.
We come now to the consideration of the several contentions made by the parties.
In the first place it is to be observed that while the intersection of the line of the 100th meridian and the South
Fork of Red River has been located four times, that is,
by Jones and Brown in 1859, by Pritchett in 1892, by
Kidder in 1902, and by the Coast and Geodetic Survey in
1923-the three latter locations differing between themselves by less than 400 feet-there is no extrinsic evidence
showing that any one of these locations is precisely correct. Nor is this claimed. And we have now no occasion
to settle the exact location of the meridian line, as an
original matter; the present contentions, as stated at the
outset, being, on the one side, that the Jones, Brown and
Clark line is conclusively established as the boundary by

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

the decision and decree in the Greer County case, and,
also, independently of that adjudication, by long continued recognition, acquiescence, and the exercise of jurisdiction, and on the other side, that a line running north
from the Kidder monument is the established boundary.
We take up these contentions in their order.
1. The Greer County suit was brought by the United
States against Texas solely to settle the controversy as to
the land in " Greer County" lying east of the 100th meridian and between the Forks of the Red River. It did
not involve any part of the boundary north of the River.
Nor did it involve, under the issues submitted, the precise
location of the meridian between the two Forks, but
merely the general questions whether under the treaty of
1819 the boundary line along the course of the Red River
followed the North or South Fork, or either of them, to
the true meridian.
On the hearing, as appears from the opinion, the Tnited
States contended that under the treaty of 1819 the boundary line following the course of the Red River westward
to the 100th meridian, went along and up the South Fork,
as the continuation or principal fork of the River (p. 34).
Texas, on the other hand, contended: 1st, that as the
treaty declared that the boundary line should be as laid
down on Melish's map, which lQcated the 100th meridian
east of the forks, thereby throwing the entire area in dispute west of the meridian, it was immaterial whether this
location of the meridian on the map, being conclusive
upon both governments, was astronomically correct or
not, or whether the one or the other fork was the continuation of the main river; and 2nd, in the alternative,
that even if the treaty referred to the true meridian, the
course of the River followed the North Fork, and not the
South (pp. 34, 35).
The court first concluded that, upon a reasonable interpretation of its provisions, the treaty merely took

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Melish's map as the general basis for the adjustment of
the boundaries, and left open to subsequent determination and exact designation the precise location of the true
100th meridian (pp. 38, 42). Independently, however, of
this interpretation of the treaty, it was added, as being,
perhaps, a stronger view, and equally conclusive, that
the official acts of the general government and of Texas
required that the controversy should be determined upon
the basis that the treaty line was intended to extend to
the true or actual meridian, and not to stop at the Melish
location (pp. 38, 42). In developing this view the court,
after concluding and emphasizing that the legislative compact of 1850 between the United States and Texas accepted the true 100th meridian as the boundary line, and
discarded the Melish location, said further that the precise
location of the meridian had not been left in doubt by the
two governments; that the United States had erected a
monument at the point where it intersected the parallel
of 36 degrees 30 minutes, and Texas had by its legislation
often recognized the true meridian to be as located by the
United States; that the two governments had, by official
action, declared that the meridian was located on the line
marking the eastern boundary of four of the counties
established by Texas in 1876; that the proof left no room
to doubt that the true meridian was "immediately east of
those counties "; and that the acts of the two governments
and the evidence, therefore, concurred in showing that the
meridian was "not correctly delineated on the Melish
map " (pp. 39-41). The final conclusion on this question
was that, independently of the treaty itself, it must be
held that the legislative compact of 1850, together with
the subsequent acts of the two governments, required that
the meridian "be taken to be the true 100th meridian,"
and, consequently, that the course of the Red River westward "must go, and was intended to go to the true or
actual 100th meridian, and not stop at the Melish 100th

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

meridian." (p. 42.) Taking up then the remaining question whether, as the United States contended, the line
following the course of the Red River westward met the
100th meridian at the point where the South Fork of the
River crossed the meridian, or whether, as Texas contended, it ran up the North Fork northwestwardly until
it crossed the meridian, the court, after a detailed consideration of the evidence, concluded that the South Fork
more nearly met the requirements of the treaty, and was
to be followed as the boundary line to its intersection
with the true meridian (pp. 42, et seq.) There was, however, no statement in the opinion either that this point of
intersection was fixed at the Jones and Brown initial
monument, or that Jones, Brown and Clark had correctly
located the line of the meridian.
For the reasons stated in the opinion, the court entered
a decree-set out at the end of the opinion itself-by
which it way" ordered, adjudged and decreed that the territory east of the 100th meridian of longitude, west and
south of the river now known as the North Fork of Red
River, and north of a line following westward, as prescribed by the treaty of 1819 between the United States
and Spain, the course, and along the south bank, both of
Red River and of the river now known as the Prairie Dog
Town Fork or South Fork of Red River until such line
meets the 100th meridian of longitude-which territory
is sometimes called Greer County-constitutes no part
of the territory properly included within or rightfully
belonging to Texas at the time of the admission of that
State into the Union, and is not within the limits nor
under the jurisdiction of that State, but is subject to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States of America."
(p. 90.)
We are of opinion that the decision in that case is not
conclusive upon the parties as an adjudication that the
boundary line between Texas and the Territories of the

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

United States followed the line of the 100th meridian as
surveyed and marked by Jones, Brown and Clark. The
sole questions, under the issues submitted, were whether
the erroneous location of the meridian on Melish's map
was controlling, and, if not, whether the boundary line
followed the North or South Fork to the intersection with
the true meridian. No issue was submitted as to whether,
if the South Fork were to be followed, the Jones, Brown
and Clark line was to be taken as establishing the exact
location of the true meridian and fixing the western
boundary of the tract in dispute. And while it was said
in the opinion, arguendo, in disposing of the first issue,
that Texas had recognized the true meridian to be as located by the United States, and the two governments had
declared, by official action, that it was located on the line
marking the eastern boundary of four of the counties
established by Texas in 1876, the proof leaving no doubt
that the true meridian was immediately east of these
counties-this was said, not as a determination of the
exact location of the true meridian for the purpose of a
precise adjudication, but merely as one of the reasons
leading to the general conclusion that under the treaty of
1819 the boundary was intended to follow, as the parties
had recognized, the line of the true meridian and not the
location laid down on Melish's map. This is emphasized
and made clear by the terms of the decree, which merely
adjudged, in general terms, that the land lying east of the
meridian and between the two forks was not the property
of Texas, but within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States; and neither adjudged that the true meridian followed the Jones, Brown and Clark line nor otherwise fixed its precise location.
The effect of a decree as an adjudication conclusive
upon the parties, is not to be determined by isolated passages in the opinion considering the rights of the parties,
but upon an examination of the issues made and intended

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

to be submitted, and which it was intended to decide.
Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259, 272, 273; United
Shoe Mach. Co. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451, 460.
Thus tested, the effect of the decree in so far as it related to the western boundary of the tract in dispute,
was merely that it followed the line of the true meridian.
In other words, the location of the boundary along the
true meridian was left in the same situation under the
decree as that of the south bank of Red River and of the
South Fork. Each was declared in general terms to be the
boundary; but the precise location of neither was adjudged. It was later held by this Court that, while so
much of this decree as adjudged that the boundary between the territories of the United States and Texas followed the south bank of Red River and of the South Fork
was res judicata and conclusive upon the parties, Oklahoma v. Texas, 256 U. S. 70, 93, it still needed to be determined what constituted the south bank of the river and
where along that bank the true boundary line was to be
located. Oklahoma v. Texas, 256 U. S. 602, 608. And so,
while the decree likewise conclusively determined that
the boundary line between Texas and the territories of the
United States followed the line of the true 100th meridian
from its intersection with the South Fork of Red River,
it was, for like reason, not an adjudication as to the precise
location of the meridian line, but left this matter open and
undetermined.
This was clearly recognized by the Act of Congress of
1901, which recited, not only that it had been adjudged
by this Court that the treaty of 1819 "referred to the
true one hundredth meridian astronomically located,"
but that "the true intersection of this meridian" with
the South Fork of Red River had not been fixed either
by the United States and Texas, acting together, or by
the decree; and directed the Secretary of the Interior to
cause the "intersection of the true meridian" with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

South Fork to be established. And the recognition of the
fact that the precise location of the boundary line along
the meridian had not been definitely determined nor settled, was the basis not only of the subsequent recommendations of the Secretary of the Interior for the settlement of the boundary, but of the reports of the House
committees recommending legislation for running and
marking the line.
2. The contentions that the Jones, Brown and Clark
line has been recognized and adopted as the location of
the 100th meridian for a long course of years and is established as the boundary by acquiescence and the exercise
of jurisdiction, are made by Oklahoma alone, and not by
the United States.
It is well settled that governments, as well as private
persons, are bound by the practical line that has been
recognized and adopted as their boundary, Missouri v.
Iowa, 7 How. 660, 670; New Mexico v. Colorado, 267
U. S. 30, 40; and that a boundary line between two governments which has been run out, located and marked
upon the earth, and afterwards recognized and acquiesced
in by them for a long course of years, is conclusive, even
if it be ascertained that it varies somewhat from the correct course; the line so established taking effect, in such
case, as a definition of the true and ancient boundary,
Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 522; Maryland v.
West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 42; New Mexico v. Colorado,
supra, 40. We find, however, upon the facts, that the
Jones, Brown and Clark line has not been established as
the boundary line by any such long continued recognition
and acquiescence.
The original Jones and Brown line was not run for the
purpose of marking the boundary between Texas and the
Territories of the United States under any authority
from Congress, but was located under the direction of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs merely to mark the

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

boundary of certain Indian lands. The retracement and
re-establishment of this line, as it had been extended by
Clark in 1860, and the subdivision of the public lands
into townships closing on it, between 1872 and 1875, was
merely the action of the Land Department. Congress
itself did not in any manner recognize this line as constituting the boundary of Texas.
And although the Texas Legislature in 1876 established
five new counties in which the calls for monuments aid
mile posts on "the one-hundredth meridian" evidently
referred to the Jones, Brown and Clark line, it is apparent that these calls were inserted merely as a description
of the boundaries of the new counties and not as a recognition of this line as constituting the eastern boundary of
the State itself, since one of these monuments and two
of these mile posts were within the forks of the Red
River and between three of these new counties and "Greer
County," which the Legislature had created sixteen years
before, and over which Texas was continuing to assert
jurisdiction. In 1882, the report of the Secretary of the
Interior called attention to the fact that no part of the
boundary survey had ever been officially agreed upon or
accepted by the two governments as contemplated by the
Act of Congress. In the same year the Texas Legislature
asserted that it was necessary to run and mark the course
of the Red River to the 100th meridian, as laid down on
Melish's map, in order to settle the true location of the
meridian and determine whether the north or south fork
was the true Red River, and that a monument should be
established where the meridian crossed the River as a
corner in the boundary. In 1885 Congress declared that
the point where the 100th meridian crossed the River, as
described in the treaty, had never been ascertained and
fixed by any authority competent to bind the United
States and Texas, and that the existing controversy and
the boundary then in dispute because of a difference of

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

opinion as to this crossing should be settled. In 1891,
although the surveys made by Clark, under the Act of
1858, of the western and northern boundary lines of
Texas, were "confirmed" both by Congress and by th,
Texas Legislature, neither confirmed his survey of the
eastern boundary line. In 1892 Texas separately
employed Pritchett to establish the intersection of the
meridian with the River. In 1901, after it had been
settled by the decision in the Greer County case that the
boundary line followed the South Fork of the River to its
intersection with the true meridian, Congress declared
that the true intersection of this meridian with the South
Fork had not been fixed and directed that it be established
and a monument erected. This was done by Kidder in
1902, and reported by the Secretary of the Interior as a
determination and establishment of the true intersection.
The Texas Legislature in 1903 declared that Kidder had
duly fixed the intersection of the true meridian with the
River, and that his monument properly marked the
boundary and should be " accepted as correct." And from
that time to the filing of its counterclaim in 1920 Texas
never abandoned this contention, or recognized in any
manner the Jones, Brown and Clark line as the boundary;
while, on the other hand, the Secretary of the Interior not
only approved Kidder's location of the true intersection,
but in 1907 recommended that it be "accepted as correct"
in establishing the boundary. And finally, in 1919, the
Texas Legislature specifically asserted the existence of a
controversy concerning the boundary line.
These facts, in our opinion, demonstrate that from the
running of the Jones, Brown and Clark line in 1859 and
1860 to the filing of the counterclaim by Texas in 1920,
there was no period of time, either before or after the
decision in the Greer County case, in which Texas and the
United States or the State of Oklahoma, recognized and
aquiesced in the Jones, Brown and Clark line as the estab-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

lished boundary, and fall far short of showing its practical
adoption. On the contrary, the course of the legislation,
on both sides, instead of treating the boundary as settled
and acquiesced in, dealt with it as a matter requiring
settlement. Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158, 172.
Nor is the fact, as to which the parties have stipulated,
that since the decision in the Greer County case the
United States, and the Territory and State of Oklahoma
in succession have continuously enforced their civil and
criminal laws over the territory in dispute, sufficient to
establish Oklahoma's claim to this territory by prescription. The general principle of public law that as between
states long acquiescence in the possession of territory
under a claim of right and in the exercise of dominion and
sovereignty over it, is conclusive of the rightful authority,
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,4 How. 591, 638, Indiana
v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 470, 510, Virginia v. Tennessee,
supra, 522, Louisianav. Mississippi,202 U. S. 1, 53, Maryland v. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 1, 42-a principle by
which prescription founded on length of time is regarded
as establishing an incontestible right-does not apply
here.
Without determining whether the period of twenty-four
years which intervened between the decision in the Greer
County case and the filing of the counterclaim, could
under any circumstances be a sufficient foundation for a
prescriptive right-this being a much shorter period than
that involved in any of the cases cited-it suffices to say
that even during this period there has been neither a continuous assertion of a claim of right on the one side, nor an
acquiescence therein upon the other. Within five years
after this decision, while the United States still had paramount jurisdiction as to the boundaries of the Territory
of Oklahoma, Congress specifically declared that the true
intersection of the meridian with the South Fork of the
River, which had been adjudicated as a corner in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 13. S.

boundary between Texas and the Territory, had not as
yet been fixed-thereby disavowing the Jones and Brown
initial monument as an established corner-and directed
that the true intersection be established. Thereafter,
Kidder having established this intersection, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior, at a point about
three-quarters of a mile east of the Jones and Brown
monument, the Texas Legislature immediately asserted
and has continued to assert that his monument correctly
located the true intersection and properly marked the
boundary. And, on the other hand, although Congress
did not accept the Kidder monument as correct, it did not
at any time assert any claim that the jurisdiction of the
United States extended to the Jones, Brown and Clark
line.
It is plain that, under these circumstances, essential
elements necessary to the establishment of a prescriptive
right by an exercise of jurisdiction acquiesced in for a
long period of years, are lacking.
3. On the other hand we cannot sustain the contention
made by Texas that a line running north from the Kidder
monument is the recognized and established boundary.
The Act of Congress of 1901, while recognizing, in effect,
that the true intersection of the meridian with the South
Fork of the River is a corner in the boundary, merely
directed that this point be established and marked by a
monument, and did not authorize the establishment of the
boundary line running northwardly from this monument.
Thereafter, despite the facts that Kidder's monument was
approved by the Secretary of the Interior and reported
by him as a determination of the true intersection; that
the Texas Legislature accepted Kidder's monument as
properly marking the boundary; that the Secretary of the
Interior caused Kidder to ascertain and mark the point
where the line of the meridian intersected the parallel
of 36 degrees 30 minutes, and show the discrepancy

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
21

Opinion of the Court.

between the meridian and the Jones, Brown and Clark
line; that the Secretary submitted drafts of two bills for
the running and marking of the boundary line, one of
which specifically provided that Kidder's monument
should be accepted as correct; and that various other bills
and resolutions were from time to time introduced in the
House of Representatives for the same purpose, some of
which were recormended for passage by the committees
to which they were referred-Congress nevertheless took
no further action as to this matter, and neither accepted
Kidder's monument as the correct location of the intersection of the true meridian and the South Fork, nor provided for the establishment and marking of the boundary
northwardly therefrom. It is entirely clear that under
these circumstances the line running north from the Kidder monument-which has never been run or marked
upon the ground-cannot be regarded as the established
boundary acquiesced in and adopted by the parties.
4. On the entire case our conclusions therefore are: that
neither the Jones, Brown and Clark line, nor a line running
north from the Kidder monument has been established as
the boundary line; that the boundary is the line of the
true 100th meridian extending north from its intersection
with the south bank of the South Fork of Red River to its
intersection with the parallel of 36 degrees, 30 minutes;
and that this line should now be accurately located and
marked by a commissioner or commissioners appointed by
the court, whose report shall be subject to its approval.
The parties may submit within thirty days the form of
a decree to carry these conclusions into effect.
23468-

27-----4

