542

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

sum, with that already paid, to make just compensation
for the vessels at the time they were taken over. In short,
while the United States was prepared, willing and offering
when the vessels were taken over to pay the sum now
adjudged to have been just compensation at that time,
the claimant was not then in a position entitling it to
demand or receive compensation because as yet it was
without a good title and had not executed a bill of sale to
the United States; and after it became entitled to compensation it rejected the offer, which was still outstanding, to pay that sum in full payment and elected to accept
three-fourths as a partial payment and to take chances on
enlarging the compensation by resorting to this suit
against the United States. The effort to obtain an enlargement has resulted, as already shown, in establishing
that the amount offered and rejected was all that justly
could have been demanded. In these circumstances we
think such postponement as has occurred in the actual
payment of the compensation is attributable entirely to
the claimant, and therefore that an allowance of interest
to the time of payment is not in this case made essential
by the constitutional provision expounded and applied in
SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299,
306, and Brooks-Scanlon Corporation v. United States,
265 U. S. 106, 123.
Judgment affirmed.
SALINGER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 238. Argued October 21, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.
1. The statutes which define and distribute federal appellate jurisdiction and make the existence of a constitutional question fhe

test of the right to a review, as also of the court in which the
review may be had, always have been construed as referring to a

SALINGER v. UNITED STATES.
542

543

Counsel for Parties.

question having sufficient substance to deserve serious consideration, and not one which is so devoid of merit as to be fanciful or
frivolous, or which is not open to discussion because settled by
prior decisions. P. 544.
2. An indictment charging the offense of causing a letter to be delivered by mail in a designated district in furtherance of a fraudulent
scheme, is triable in that district, though it shows that the letter
was mailed elsewhere. Salinger v. Loisel, 265 U. S. 224. P. 546.
3. The purpose of the guaranty of the right of confrontation in the
6th Amendment is to continue and preserve that right as it already
existed, with its recognized exceptions, at common law. P. 548.
4. Admission in a criminal case of evidence, otherwise hearsay, but
admissible at common law because of its relation to the defendant
through his own acts and conduct, is not a departure from this
gultranty. P. 547.
5. Withdrawal by the Court from the jury of parts of an indictment unsupported by evidence is not an amendment of the indictment, and is not even remotely an infraction of the constitutional
provision that "no person shall be held to answer for a capital or
otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment or indictment of
a grand jury." P. 548.
(i. Where a writ of error which should have been taken from the
Circuit Court of Appeals was allowed from this Court before the
Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925, the case must be transferred to that court under the Act of September 14, 1922, which,
although repealed by the Act of 1925, is to be applied, under the
terms of the saving clause, to proceedings for the review of judgments rendered theretofore. P. 549.
Cause Transferred.

Error to a conviction in the District Court for a violation of § 215 of the Criminal Code which makes it a
criminal offense to use the mail for the purpose of executing a scheme to defrauid.
Messrs. B. I. Salinger and Arthur F. Mullen, with whom
Mr. Robert Healy was on the brief, for the plaintiff in
error.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Randolph S. Collins, Attorney in the Department of
Justice, were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JuSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
By this direct writ of error we are asked to review a
judgment of conviction in the federal district court for
South Dakota for a violation of § 215 of the Crininal
Code which makes it a criminal offense to use the mail
for the purpose of executing a scheme to defraud. The
writ was sued out on the assumption that the case is one
involving the construction and application of certain 'provisions of the Constitution relating to accusations and
prosecutions for criminal offenses. If the assumption was
right the writ was properly allowed under § 238 of
the Judicial Code as existing at that time (November
29, 1924); otherwise the review should have been sought
in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The statutes which define and distribute federal appellate jurisdiction and make the existence of a constitutional question the test of the right to a review, as also
of the court in which the review may be had, always
have been construed as referring to a question having
sufficient substance to deserve serious consideration, and
not one which is so devoid of merit as to be fanciful
or frivolous, or which is not open to discussion because
settled by prior decisions. Goodrich v. Ferris, 214 U. S.
71, 79, 81; Brolan v. United States, 236 U. S. 216; Sugarman v. United States, 249 U. S. 182. Under a different
construction the restrictions and distributing provisions
in the statutes would have little purpose; for constitutional questions of no substance readily could be devised
and presented as mere pretexts for obtaining a review on
other questions. United Surety Co. v. American Fruit
Co., 238 U. S. 140, 142.

SALINGER v. UNITED STATES.
542

Opinion of the Court.

This case, being criminal, belongs to a class in which
the review ordinarily is to be had in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, Judicial Code, § 128. Therefore it becomes
material to inquire whether the constitutional questions
said to be involved are adequate to bring the case within
the exceptional provision in § 238 for a review by this
Court on direct writ of error.
The grounds advanced for invoking such a review are:
1. The conviction in the District of South Dakota
was in violation of the provision in the Sixth Amendment
to the Constitution entitling an accused to a trial in the
State and district wherein the crime was committed, because (a) the indictment definitely charged the crime as
committed in the Northern District of Iowa; (b) if the
indictment did not so charge, it was uncertain in that
it did not show whether the place of the crime was in
one district or in the other, and (c) there was no evidence that the place was in the District of South Dakota.
2. The charging part of the indictment was so indefinite and ambiguous that the accused was not informed
of the nature of the accusation as required by the same
Amendment.
3. On the trial hearsay evidence was admitted over
the accused's objection that its admission would be in
derogation of his right under that Amendment to be confronted with the witnesses against him.
4. Contrary to the Fifth Amendment the accused was
held to answer for an infamous crime otherwise than on
an indictment by a grand jury, in that on the trial the
court, being of opinion that part of what was charged
in the indictment had no support in the evidence, withdrew that part from the jury and left them free to convict
on what remained without a resubmission to a grand

jury.
When these contentions are stated without more some
of them appear to present serious constitutional ques2346s-27-35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S

tions, but it is quite otherwise when they are examined
in connection with pertinent portions of the record anl
in the light of prior decisions.
The indictment contained several counts. All related
to the same scheme to defraud, but each charged a distinct use of the mail for the purpose of executing the
scheme. There were three defendants. Two were acquitted on all counts. Salinger, the other defendant,
was convicted on the seventh count and acquitted on the
others. His conviction on that count is what we are
asked to review, the assignments of error being unusual
in number and directed against almost everything (lone
in the case.
The offense charged in that count was that the defendants devised a described scheme to defraud and, for the
purpose of executing it, knowingly caused a letter to be
delivered by the mail, according to the direction thereon.
at Viborg, in the District of South Dakota, the letter
and the direction being set forth. Then, by way of explaining how the delivery was brought about the count
further charged that the defendants had caused the letter
to be placed in the post office at Sioux City, Iowa, for
delivery through the mail at Viborg, South Dakota, according to the address thereon.
It is very plain that the offense charged was causing
the letter to be delivered by mail in South Dakota in
furtherance of the scheme, and that the proper place of
trial was in the District of South Dakota, where the delivery was effected as intended. We so held in a proceeding where Salinger was resisting removal to that
district for trial on this indictment. Salinger v. Loisel,
265 U. S. 224. The question hardlyowas debatable then,
and certainly has not been an open one since. The assertion that there was no evidence of the commission
of the offense in that district amounts to no more than
saying that the offense charged was not proved, and

SALINGER v. UNITED STATES.
542

Opinion of the Court.

therefore that a verdict of acquittal should have been
directed. But it has no bearing on the district in which
the offense charged was to be tried.
Of the contention that the indictment did not conform
to the constitutional provision entitling the accused to be
informed of the nature of the accusation it suffices to say
that after reading the indictment we think the contention is so plainly without any fair basis as to be frivolous.
The evidence which is characterized as hearsay and said
to have been received in violation of the accused's right
to be confronted with the witnesses against him consisted
of letters, bank-deposit slips and book entries. As to
many items their admission became of no moment when
Salinger was acquitted on all but one of the counts and
the other defendants on all. As to some the instructions
to the jury prevented their admission from affecting Salinger, for the court said that as to each defendant the
question of his guilt or innocence was strictly personal
and that he could not be found guilty on evidence that
was not traced back to him personally, nor by reason of
any conduct of others for which he was not directly accountable and responsible. Of the remaining items some
must be put aside as negligible for other reasons. Those
deserving mention were received on the theory, not that
they were admissible in themselves, but that Salinger's
acts and conduct, shown by other evidence, had brought
him into such relation to them as to make them admissible in connection with that evidence. To illustrate:
Some of the letters, although written by persons not produced as witnesses, were shown to have been laid before
Salinger and answered by him; and on this ground they
were admitted along with the answers. Evidence equally
potent in showing his relation to other material items
underlay their admission. Thus the challenged evidence
was received, not as having merely a hearsay status, but
because proved acts or conduct of Salinger had brought

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

him into such relation to it as to make it more than hearsay as to him.
The right of confrontation did not originate with the
provision in the Sixth Amendment, but was a common-law
right having recognized exceptions. The purpose of that
provision, this Court often has said, is to continue and
preserve that right, and not to broaden it or disturb the
exceptions. Mattox v. United States, 156 U. S. 237, 243;
Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281-282; Kirby v.
United States, 174 U. S. 47, 61; Dowdell v. United
States, 221 U. S. 325, 330. The present contention attributes to the right a much broader scope than it had
at common law, and could not be sustained without departing from the construction put on the constitutional
provision in the cases just cited.
Plainly the question in respect of confrontation is not
of any substance.
The contention that the court, by withdrawing from
the jury a part of the charge as without support in the
evidence, amended the indictment and thereby prevented
it from longer serving as an accusation by a grand jury
is on no better plane than the others. The indictment
was not amended, either actually or in legal effect. It
remained just as it was returned by the grand jury, and
the trial was on the charge preferred in it and not on a
modified charge. After the evidence was put in, the
accused, believing that part of the charge had no support
in the evidence, requested that that part be withdrawn
from the jury; and the court acceded to the request when
the final instructions were given. The scheme to defraud
as set forth in the indictment was manifold in that it comprehended several relatively distinct plans for fleecing
intended victims. What the court withdrew from the
jury was all of these plans but one. Thus the court
ruled that the evidence while tending to sustain the
charge as respects one of the plans did not give it any

UNITED STATES v. BRIMS.
542

549

Syllabus.

support as respects the others. Whether this was right
or wrong-as to which we intimate no opinion-it did
not work an amendment of the indictment and was not
even remotely an infraction of the constitutional provision
that "no person shall be held to answer for a capital or
otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury." Goto v. Lane, 265 U. S. 393;
State v. Evans, 40 La. Ann. 216, 218. And see Crain v.
United States, 162 U. S. 625, 636; Hall v. United States,
168 U. S. 632, 638-639. In the case of Ex parte Bain, 121
U. S. 1, on which the accused relies, there was an actual
amendment or alteration of the indictment to avoid an
adverse ruling on demurrer, and the trial was on the
amended charge without a resubmission to a grand jury.
The principle on which the decision proceeded is not
broader than the situation to which it was applied.
We are of opinion that the constitutional questions advanced to secure the direct writ of error are all so wanting in substance that they afford no basis for the writ.
As the writ was allowed before the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, the case must be transferred to
fhe Circuit Court of Appeals under the Act of September
14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, which, although repealed
by the Act of 1925, is to be applied, under the terms of
the saving clause, to proceedings for the review of judgments rendered theretofore.
Transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

UNITED STATES v. BRIMS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 212. Argued October 8, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.
1. A conspiracy of manufacturers of mill-work, building contractors,
and union carpenters, to check competition from non-union-made

