50

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

INTERNATIONAL STEVEDORING COMPANY v.
HAVERTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT
WASHINGTON.

No. 236.

OF THE STATE OF

Argued October 5, 6, 1926.-Decided October 18, 1926.

Within the meaning of the Merchant Marine Act of June 5, 1920,
which gives to seamen a right of action for damages, at law, for
personal injuries, and, by adoption of statutes modifying or
extending common law rights and remedies of railway employees,
does away with the fellow servant doctrine in such cases, the
term "seamen" is to be taken to include stevedores when engaged in the maritime work of stowing cargo. P. 51.
134 Wash. 235, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 549) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Washington which sustained a judgment against the petitioner, a stevedoring company,
in an action at law brought by one of its employees for
injuries sustained while stowing freight in a vessel.
Mr. Stephen V. Carey, with whom Messrs. R. E.
Bigham and Alfred J. Schweppe were on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. Mark 31. Lichtman, with whom Mr. John F.
Dore was on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Arthur E. Griffin, George F. Vanderveer, and
Samuel B. Bassett filed a brief as amici curiae by
special leave of Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action brought in a State Court seeking a
common law remedy for personal injuries sustained by
the plaintiff, the respondent here, upon a vessel at dock

INTERNAT. STEVEDORE CO. v. HAVERTY.
50

51

Opinion of the Court.

in the harbor of Seattle. The plaintiff was a longshoreman engaged in stowing freight in the hold. Through
the negligence of the hatch tender, no warning was given
that a load of freight was about to be lowered, and when
the load came down the plaintiff was badly hurt. The
plaintiff and the hatch tender both were employed by the
defendant stevedore, the petitioner here, and the defendant asked for a ruling that they were fellow servants and
that therefore the plaintiff could not recover. The Court
ruled that if the failure of the hatch tender to give a
signal was the proximate cause of the injury the verdict
must be for the plaintiff. A verdict was found for him
and a judgment on the verdict was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 134 Wash. 235, 245. A writ
of certiorari was granted by this Court. 269 U. S. 549.
The petitioner argues that the case is governed by the
admiralty law; that the admiralty law has taken up the
common law doctrine as to fellow servants, and that by
the common law the plaintiff would have no case.
Whether this last proposition is true we do not decide.
The petitioner cites a number of decisions of which it is
enough to mention The Hoquiarn, 253 Fed. Rep. 627, and
Cassil v. United States Emergency Fleet Corporation,
289 Fed. Rep. 774. It also refers to an intimation of
this Court that, whether the established doctrine be good
or bad, it is not open to courts to do away with it upon
their personal notions of what is expedient. It is open to
Congress, however, to change the rule, and in our opinion
it has lone so. By the Act of June 5, 1920, c. 250, ยง 20;
41 Stat. 988, 1007, "any seaman who shall suffer personal
injury in the course of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, with the
right of trial by jury, and in such action all statutes of
the United States modifying or extending the commonlaw right or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway
employees shall apply." It is not disputed that the stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

utes dq away with the fellow servant rule in the case of
personal injuries to railway employees. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 49. The question,
therefore, is how far the Act of 1920 should be taken to
extend.
It is true that for most purposes, as the word is commonly used, stevedores are not "seamen." But words
are flexible. The work upon which the plaintiff was engaged was a maritime service formerly rendered by the
ship's crew. Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234
U. S. 52, 62. We cannot believe that Congress willingly
would have allowed the protection to men engaged upon
the same maritime duties to vary with the accident of
their being employed by a stevedore rather than by the
ship. The policy of the statute is directed to the safety
of the men and to treating compensation for injuries to
them as properly part of the cost of the business. If they
should be protected in the one case they should be in the
other. In view of the broad field in which Congress has
disapproved and changed the rule introduced into the
common law within less than a century, we are of opinion
that a wider scope should be given to the words of the
act, and that in this statute "seamen" is to be taken to
include stevedores employed in maritime work on navigable waters as the plaintiff was, whatever it might mean
in laws of a different kind.
Judgment affirnwd.
MYERS, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 2. Argued December 5, 1923; reargued April 13, 14, 1925.Decided October 25, 1926.
1. A postmaster who was removed from office petitioned the President and the Senate committee on Post Offices for a hearing on
any charges filed; protested to the Post Office Department; and

