GRAVES v. MINNESOTA.
4(X

Syllabus.

requires that the case be remanded to the District Court,
so that the evidence may be re-examined there in the light
of the applicable rules. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v.
Russell, 261 U. S. 290, 293; Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v
Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196. Compare Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 179; Lutcher & Moore
Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257, 267; Brown v. Fletcher, 237 U. S. 583; Gerdes v. Lustgarten, 266 U. S. 321,
327. To this end the decree should, in my opinion, be
reversed.
To avoid the possibility of misunderstanding, I add
merely that, in my opinion, the facts of record, considered
in connection with those of which we have judicial notice,
do not justify holding that rates which yield a return of
less than 7 per cent. would be so unreasonably low as to be
confiscatory.
IR. JUSTICE STONE

joins in this dissent.

GRAVES v. MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE'ME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MINNESOTA.

No. 320. Argued October 21, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.
1. The requirement of Minnesota Gen. Stats. 1923, §§ 5757-5763,
that every applicant for a license to practice dentistry shall produce before the board of dental examiners "his diploma from some
dental college of good standing," of which the board shall be the
judge, does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 426.
2. A State may, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment, prescribe that only persons possessing the reasonably necessary qualifications of learning and skill shall practice medicine or dentistry.
P. 427.
3. The State is primarily the judge of regulations required in the
interest of public safety and welfare, and its police statutes may
be declared unconstitutional only where they are arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 428.
166 Minn. 496, affirmed.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minne-

sota which affirmed the judgment of a municipal court
sentencing Graves for practicing dentistry without a
license.
Mr. Russell C. Rosenquest, with whom Mr. Charles H.
Graves, pro se, was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of Minnesota, and James E. Markham, Deputy Attorney General,
were on the brief, for the State of Minnesota.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves a single question relating to the constitutionality of the Minnesota statute regulating the
practice of dentistry. Gen. Laws, 1889, c. 19, and amendments; embodied in Gen. Stats., 1923, §§ 5757-5763.
This statute prohibits the practice of dentistry by persons who have not been licensed by the board of dental
examiners. Every applicant for a license is required to
present himself for examination by the board and "produce his diploma from some dental college of good standing," of which the board shall be the judge, with satisfactory evidence showing his good moral character. The
board shall then give him an examination to test thoroughly his fitness for practice; and, if he successfully
passes this, shall register him as a licensed dentist.
Graves, the plaintiff in error, had applied for a license,
but had been refused an examination by the board because he had no diploma from an accredited dental college.
He was thereafter prosecuted in a municipal court for violating the statute by practicing dentistry without a
license. He asserted his fitness to practice, and interposed a challenge to the constitutional validity of the
statute. This was overruled, and he was found guilty
and sentenced. The judgment was affirmed by the Su-

GRAVES v. MINNESOTA.
425

427

Opinion of the Court.

preme Court of the State, 166 Minn. 496; and the case is
brought here by writ of error on the constitutional
question.
The specific contention is that the requirement of the
statute that an applicant for a license must present a
diploma from an approved dental college before he can be
examined by the board-which, in effect, limits the
granting of licenses to persons having diplomas from dental colleges of good standing-is unreasonable, arbitrary
and discriminatory, and violates the due process clause
and other provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is well settled that a State may, consistently with the
Fourteenth Amendment, prescribe that only persons possessing the reasonably necessary qualifications of learning
and skill shall practise medicine or dentistry. Dent v.
West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114, 122; Douglas v. Noble, 261
U. S. 165, 167. In the Dent case this Court said: "The
power of the State to provide for the general welfare of
its people authorizes it to prescribe all such regulations
as, in its judgment, will secure or tend to secure them
against the consequences of ignorance and incapacity as
well as of deception and fraud. As one means to this end
it has been the practice of different States, from time immemorial, to exact in many pursuits a certain degree of
skill and learning upon which the community may confidently rely, their possession being generally ascertained
upon an examination of parties by competent persons, or
inferred from a certificate to them in the form of a
diploma or license from an institution established for instruction on the subjects, scientific and otherwise, with
which such pursuits have to deal. The nature and extent
of the qualifications required must depend primarily upon
the judgment of the State as to their necessity."
(p. 122.)
In the Douglas case, which involved the constitutionality of a statute containing similar provisions to those of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

the Minnesota statute, the validity of the provision that
only persons having diplomas from a dental college should
be eligible to examination for a license to practice dentistry, although not directly involved, was distinctly implied. The specific objection there was that the statute
did not state in terms the scope and character of the examination to be made by the board of examiners, and
therefore conferred upon it arbitrary power to grant or
withhold licenses. But in answering this contention this
Court said that the provision that the applicant must be
a graduate of a reputable dental school and of good moral
character, clearly indicated "the general standard of fitness and the character and scope of the examination ";
and the constitutionality of the statute was sustained.
(p. 167.)
By enacting the present statute the State has determined, through its legislative body, that to safeguard
properly the public health it is necessary that no one be
licensed to practice dentistry who does not hold a diploma
from a dental college of good standing. That determination must be given great weight. Every presumption is
to be indulged in favor of the validity of the statute.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661. And the case is to
be considered in the light of the principle that the State
is primarily the judge of regulations required in the interest of public safety and welfare, and its police statutes
may only be declared unconstitutional where they are
arbitrary or unreasonable attempts to exercise the authority vested in it in the public interest. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Clara City, 246 U. S. 434, 439; Gitlow v,
New York, 268 U. S. 652, 668.
Clearly the fact that an applicant for a license holds a
diploma from a reputable dental college has a direct and
substantial relation to his qualification to practice dentistry. We cannot say that the State is acting arbitrarily
or unreasonably when, in the exercise of its judgment, it

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
425

Syllabus.

determines that the holding of such a diploma is a necessary qualification for the practice of dentistry; or that
the distinction made in the granting of licenses between
applicants who hold stich diplomas and those who do not,
is a classification which has no real or substantial basis.
And the constitutionality of the statute must be sustained.
This conclusion is in harmony with the decisions in
other state courts involving the constitutional validity of
statutes regulating the practice of medicine or dentistry
which contain similar or analogous provisions, as well as
with the earlier Minnesota decisions. In re Thompson,
36 Wash. 377; State v. Creditor,44 Kans. 565; State v.
Green, 112 Ind. 462; People v. Phippin, 70 Mich. 6; Ex
Parte Spinney, 10 Nev. 323; State v. Vandersluis, 42
Minn. 129; State v. Graves, 161 Minn. 422. *And see
Hewitt v. Charier, 16 Pick. (Mass.) 353; Ex parte WhitIcy, 144 Cal. 167; Wert v. Clutter,37 Ohio St. 347; Timmerman v. Morrison, 14 Johns. (N. Y.) 369. And it is
not in conflict with the decisions in Smith v. Texas, 233
U. S. 630, and State v. Walker, 48 Wash. 8, on which the
plaintiff in error relies, which dealt with statutes attaching unreasonable and arbitrary requirements to the pursuit of the employments or trades of locomotive engineers
and barbers. These manifestly involve very different
considerations from those relating to such professions as
dentistry, requiring a high degree of scientific learning.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

I. T. S. RUBBER COMPANY v. ESSEX RUBBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 36.

Argued April 13, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. The Court may decline to consider points not presented in compliance with Rule 25, concerning briefs. P. 431.

