ANDERSON v. SHIPOWNERS ASSN.
351

359

Syllabus.

earlier decision, rendered in 1798 in the Court of Common
Pleas, upon exactly similar facts, to the same effect. Dc
Costa v. Davis, 1 Bos. & P. 242. In Drake v. White, 117
Mass. 10, 13, Stevens v. Webb, supra,was cited as authority for the proposition that, where one part of an alternative promise, originally possible, has subsequently become
impossible of fulfilment, the other part of the alterna1ive must nevertheless be performed. See also Mill Dam
Foundery v. Hovey, 21 Pick. 417, 443; State v. Executors
of Thomas Worthington, 7 Ohio 171, 173; Jacquinet v.
Boutron, 19 La. Ann. 30, 32.
That the United States has taken and holds possession
of the entire Quarry tract of 648 acres is not in dispute;
and since the Indians are the owners of it in fee, they
are entitled to just compensation as for a taking under
the power of eminent domain.
Judgment reversed
ANDERSON v. SHIPOWNERS ASSOCIATION OF
THE PACIFIC COAST ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 306.

Argued October 28,29, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. A suit by an individual, claiming injury, on behalf of himself and
all others in like case, to enjoin the maintenance of a combination
in restraint of commerce violating § 1 of the Anti-Trust Aet, is
authorized by §§ 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act. P. 360.
2. Ships and those who operate them hre instrumentalities of commerce and within the Commerce Clause, no less than cargoes.
P. 363.
3. A combination whereby the owners and operators of ships engaged in interstate and foreign commerce surrender completely
their freedom of action in respect of the employment of seamen,
to associations formed to regulate and control the subject, violates
the Anti-Trust Act. P. 362.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

4. Where the bill alleged such a combination, the direct and necessary consequence of which was to restrain interstate and foreign
commerce, it was unnecessary to add an allegation that such wa';
the specific intent of those in the combination. P. 363.
5. Therefore it is unimportant in this case to inquire whether the
object of the combination was merely to regulate the employment
of men and not to restrain commerce. P. 363.
10 F. (2d) 96, reversed.

CERTIORARI (271 U. S. 652), to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the District
Court dismissing a bill to restrain an unlawful combination, and for damages.
Mr. H. W. Hutton for the petitioner.
Mr. Chauncey F. Eldridge, with whom Messrs. Frederick C. Peterson and George 0. Bahrs were on the briefs,
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to enjoin the respondents from maintaining a combination in restraint of interstate and foreign
commerce in violation of § 1 of the Anti-Trust Act, c. 647,
26 Stat. 209, and to recover damages. Such a suit is
authorized by §§ 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38
Stat. 730, 731, 737. Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.
443, 464-465. Upon respondents' motion, the district
court dismissed the bill of complaint, apparently upon
the merits, and the circuit court of appeals affirmed the
decree. 10 F. (2d) 96. The only question necessary to be
considered here is whether the bill states a case within the
Anti-Trust Act.
The bill is not concisely drawn and the application of its
allegations is to some degree obscured by references to
acts of Congress regulating commerce, other than the
Anti-Trust Act. For present purposes the pertinent
allegations, shortly stated, are as follows: Petitioner is a

ANDERSON v. SHIPOWNERS ASSN.
359

Opinion of the Court.

seaman and has followed that calling for more than
twenty years on ships engaged in the carrying trade
among the states on the Pacific Coast and with foreign
countries. He is a member of the Seaman's Union of
America, having a membership of about 10,000 seamen
engaged in various forms of maritime service in the same
field; and he sues on their behalf as well as his own. The
members of the respondent associations own, operate or
control substantially all the merchant vessels of American registry engaged in interstate and foreign commerce
among the ports of the Pacific Coast and with foreign
countries. These associations and their members have
entered into a combination to control the employment,
upon such vessels, of all seamen upon the Pacific Coast,
and to that end the associations have established and
maintain offices in San Francisco and San Pedro, California, where seamen are engaged and supplied to the
operators of the vessels. Among other requirements,
every seaman seeking employment is compelled to register, receive a number and await his turn according to the
number, before he can obtain employment, the result of
which is that seamen, well qualified and well known, are
frequently prevented from obtaining employment at once,
when, but for these conditions, they would be able to do
so. A certificate is issued to each seaman which he is
obliged to carry and present in order to obtain employment. The certificate, in part, recites that no person will
be employed unless registered; that the certificate must be
delivered to the master of the vessel upon articles being
signed; that the certificate is the personal record of the
seaman and the basis of his future employment. At the
same time, two cards are issued,-one to the seaman,
assigning him to a specified employment, and another to
the ship, reciting the capacity in which the seaman is to
be employed, with the statement that "he must not be
employed on your ship in any capacity unless he presents

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

an assignment card, grey in color, issued by us and
addressed to ycur vessel designating the position to which
we have assigned him." The associations fix the wages
which shall be paid the seamen. Under the regulations,
when a seaman's turn comes, he must take the employment then offered or none, whether it is suited to his
qualifications' or whether he wishes to engage on the
particular vessel or for the particular voyage; and the
officers of the vessels are deprived of the right to select
their own men or those deemed most suitable. Without
a compliance with the foregoing requirements, no seaman
can be employed on any of the vessels owned or operated
by members of the associations.
It is further alleged that the petitioner sought employment through the San Francisco office of the associations
and was refused registration because he failed to produce
a discharge book. At a later time, he was employed by
the mate of a vessel engaged in coastwise interstate traffic,
but was required by the mate to apply at the office of the
associations for assignment as a sailor; that upon application being thus made such assignment was refused; that,
nevertheless, he was directed by the mate to report on
board for duty; that he did report, but was informed by
the mate that he had been ordered to take no seamen
except through the office of the associations, and in consequence petitioner lost the employment to his damage
in a sum stated.
From these averments, the conclusion results that each
of the shipowners and operators, by entering into this
combination, has, in respect of the employment of seamen, surrendered himself completely to the control of the
associations. If the restraint thus imposed had related to
the carriage of goods in interstate and foreign commercethat is to say, if each shipowner had precluded himself
from making any contract of transportation directly with
the shipper and had put himself under an obligation to

ANDERSON v. SHIPOWNERS ASSN.
359

Opinion of the Court.

refuse to carry for any person without the previous
approval of the associations-the unlawful restraint
would be clear. But ships and those who operate them
are instrumentalities of commerce and within the Commerce Clause no less than cargoes. Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47-49. And, as was said by
this Court in United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S.
300, 307, "The purpose of the Sherman Act is to prohibit
monopolies, contracts and combinations which probably
would unduly interfere with the free exercise of their
rights by those engaged, or who wish to engage, in trade
and commerce-in a word to preserve the right of
freedom to trade." That the effect of the combination
now under consideration, both as to the seamen and the
owners, is precisely what this language condemns, is made
plain by the allegations of the bill which we have just
summarized. The absence of an allegation that such was
the specific intent is not important, since that is the
necessary and direct consequence of the combination and
the acts of the associations under it, and they cannot be
heard to say the contrary. United States v. Patten, 226
U. S. 525, 543. It is not important, therefore, to inquire
whether, as contended by respondents, the object of the
combination was merely to regulate the employment of
men and not to restrain commerce. A restraint of interstate commerce cannot be justified by the fact that the
object of the participants in the combination was to
benefit themselves in a way which might have been unobjectionable in the absence of such restraint. Duplex
Co. v. Deering, supra, p. 468; Ellis v. Inman, Poulsen &
Co., 131 Fed. 182, 186.
Respondents rely on Industrial Association v. United
States, 268 U. S. 64; United Leather Workers v. Herkert,
265 U. S. 457, and United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co.,
259 U. S. 344; but these cases are not in point. The
conspiracies or combinations in all three related to local

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

matters---the first, to building in San Francisco, the
second, to manufacturing, and the third, to mining operations-and the effect upon interstate commerce was held
to be purely indirect and secondary. Neither the making
of goods nor the mining of coal is commerce; and the fact
that the things produced are afterwards shipped or used
in interstate commerce does not make their production a
part of it. Nor is building commerce; and the fact that
the materials to be used are shipped in from other states
does not make building a part of such interstate commerce. In the Industrial Association case, after a reference to the two earlier decisions, pp. 80-82, it was said
(p. 82): "The alleged conspiracy and the acts here complained of, spent their intended and direct force upon a
local situation,-for building is as essentially local as
mining, manufacturing or growing crops,-and if, by a
resulting diminution of the commercial demand, interstate trade was curtailed either generally or in specific
instances, that was a fortuitous consequence so remote
and indirect as plainly to cause it to fall outside the reach
of the Sherman Act." Here, however, the combination
and the acts complained of did not spend their intended
and direct force upon a local situation. On the contrary,
they related to the employment of seamen for service on
ships, both of them instrumentalities of, and intended to
be used in, interstate and foreign commerce; and the
immediate force of the combination, both in purpose and
execution, was directed toward affecting such commerce.
The interference with commerce, therefore, was direct
and primary, and not, as in the cases cited, incidental,
indirect and secondary.
Taking the allegations of the bill at their face value, as
we must do in the absence of countervailing facts or
explanations, it appears that each shipowner and operator
in this widespread combination has surrendered his
freedom of action in the matter of employing seamen and

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
359

365

Syllabus.

agreed to abide by the will of the associations. Such is
the fair interpretation of the combination and of the
various requirements under it, and this is borne out by the
actual experience of the petitioner in his efforts to secure
employment. These shipowners and operators having
thus put themselves into a situation of restraint upon
their freedom to carry on interstate and foreign commerce

according to their own choice and discretion, it follows, as
the case now stands, that the combination is in violation
of the Anti-Trust Act.
Decree reversed and cause remanded to the district

court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

VILLAGE OF EUCLID ET AL. V. AMBLER REALTY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 31.

Argued January 27, 1926; reargued October 12, 1926.Decided November 22, 1926.

1. A suit to enjoin the enforcement, of a zoning ordinance with
respect to the plaintiff's land, need not be preceded by any application on his part for a building permit, or for relief under the
ordinance from the board which administers it, where the gravamen of the bill is that the ordinance of its own force operates
unconstitutionally to reduce the value of the land and destroy its
marketability, and the attack is not against specific provisions but
against the ordinance in its entirety. P. 386.
2. While the meaning of constitutional guaranties never varies, the
scope of their application must expand or contract to meet the
new and different conditions which are constantly coming within
the field of their operation. P. 386.

