WACHOVIA TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
564

567

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

concurring.

I agree that the answer to question 5 should be in the
affirmative.
In the opinion it is said, "Construing the fifth question as referring to the prosecution with effect, we answer
the question in the affirmative." This means prosecution
and conviction of the driver constitute an election to proceed against the vehicle under ยง 26 and prevents forfeiture under ยง 3450. The answer is enough to guide
the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case. But it leaves
open the question which is not decided in United
States v. Ford Coupe, ante, p. 321. The substance
of that question is whether the prohibition officer discovering one in the act of transportation may
disregard the plain and direct commands of ยง 26 to proceed against the vehicle as there directed. I think he has
no more right to ignore that command than he has to let
the liquor and offender go. The law makes the election.
I regret that this Court's answer is so qualified and
restricted. Section 26 is not so restrained.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in this opinion.
WACHOVIA BANK & TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR, Er AL. v. DOUGHTON, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 49.

Argued May 6, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.

1. A State may not subject to taxation things wholly beyond her
control. P. 575.
2. The exercise of a power of appointment through a will made in
North Carolina by a resident of that State, held not taxable there,

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

272 U. S.

when the property was a trust fund in Massachusetts created by
the will of a citizen of that State bestowing the power of appointment-this in view of the Massachusetts law which treats the property in such cases as passing under that law from the original donor
to the appointee, and governs the interpretation of the power and
its execution and the distribution of assets thereunder. P. 575.
189 N. C. 50, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina which sustained a tax upon the value of property
which passed to citizens of that State under a power of
appointment executed by a resident of that State, but
created by the will of a resident of Massachusetts, where
the property was situate.
Mr. William M. Hendren, with whom Messrs. Clement
Manly and B. S. Womble were on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error.
While the tax here involved is not upon property, but
upon the right of succession to property, the property
being considered as measuring the value of the privilege,
nevertheless the same general rule as to jurisdiction is
applicable. The true conception of an inheritance tax
is to consider it as upon a right to receive rather than upon
the right to dispose of property. At least this is the view
taken of it in North Carolina. Pullen v. Commissioners,
66 N. C. 361; Re Morris, 138 N. C. 259; Rhode Island
Trust Co. v. Doughton, 187 N. C. 263. One of the most
important privileges granted by the law is that of succeeding to the property of a deceased person. A succession tax is a fee exacted by the State in payment for the
service of supplying law and machinery to pass property. Only the State supplying this law can exact such
payment.
The will bears, on its face, evidence that Mrs. Taylor
intended it to operate under the laws of the State of
Massachusetts because it is attested as required by the
probate laws of Massachusetts in that it has three wit-

WACHOVIA TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
567

569

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

nesses instead of the two required by the laws of her
domicile.
At common law, powers of appointment have certain
well known and well settled attributes and the relations
and rights of the parties are equally well known and
settled. The appointee takes under the will of the donor
and not under the will of the donee of the power.
White v. White, 189 N. C. 236; United States v. Fields,
255 U. S. 257. The donee has no title to or estate in
the appointed property. The power is a deputation of
the donee to act for the donor in disposing of the donor's
property. Walker v. Mansfield, 221 Mass. 600; Shlattuck v. Burrage, 229 Mass. 448; United States v. Fields,
supra; O'Grady v. Wilmot (1916) 2 A. C. 231. The law
of the State of the residence of the donor of the power
over personal property controls all questions as to the
execution of the power and succession to the property.
Walker v. Mansfield, supra; Re Bowditch, 189 Cal. 377;
Re Canda, 189 N. Y. Supp. 917; Woerner, Law of Admr.,
vol. 2, p. 766. The interpretation of "will" in the instrument creating the power is for the courts of the State
of the domicile of the donor. Blount v. Walker, 28 S. C.
545; In re New York Ins. Co., 209 N. Y. 385. The res
upon which the decree of the probate court of North
Carolina operates is only the status of the "will" for the
purpose of distributing the individual estate of Mrs.
Taylor. Blount v. Walker, 134 U. S. 607; Re Harriman,
208 N. Y. Supp. 672.
Suppose North Carollna had, by statute, withdrawn
the privilege of passing property by will, or had surrounded the right by unusual or fantastic requirements.
Yet it remains that the will of Mrs. Taylor would be
recognized by the law of Massachusetts and there given
effect as an exercise of the power. Higgins v. Eaton, 202
Fed. 75; Seawell v. Wilmer, 132 Mass. 131; Murphy v.
Deichler, (1909), A. C. 446. If the appointee can secure

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

272 U. S.

his rights under the power without reference to and independently of a privilege granted by the taxing State,
then there is no jurisdiction to tax.
Massachusetts, California, and New York have a statutory provision similar to that of North Carolina, as contained in the amendment of 1921. The courts of each
of these States hold such an act invalid when applied to
facts such as those of the instant case. Walker v. Mansfield, supra;Re Bowditch, supra;Re Canda, supra.
The law of North Carolina is not needed either practically or legally to establish the inheritance. A transfer by a gift causa mortis, is governed by the law of the
situs, so there is no ground for taxing the transfer at the
domicile of the decedent. The same is true in the case of
appointment by will under a power which derives no force
from the inheritance law of the domicile of the person
exercising the power.
Mr. Dennis G. Brummitt, Attorney General of North
Carolina, with whom Mr. Frank Nash, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The power of appointment given by the will was a general power as distinguished from a special power. Smith
v. Gary, 22 N. C. 42; Rogers v. Hinton, 62 N. C. 101;
Hicks v. Ward, 107 N. C. 392; Thompson v. Garwood, 3
Wharton (Pa.) 287; Danav. Murray, 122 N. Y. 604. The
donee of a general power of appointment is in equity considered the owner of the property appointed as to all debts
of the donee. Smith v. Gary, supra; Rogers v. Hinton,
supra; Thompson v. Garwood, supra; Brandies v. Cochrane, 112 U. S. 344; Manson v. Duncannon, 166 U. S. 533;
United States v. Field,255 U. S. 257; Bullen v. Wisconsin,
240 U. S.265.
Mrs. Taylor exercised the power in North Carolina
after the Act of 1921 had become effective, consequently,
her will executed and probated in North Carolina while
she was a resident of the State, devising and bequeathing

WACHOVIA TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
567

571

Opinion of the Court.

property to only two persons, her husband and child,
both of them being also residents of the State, must be
taken to have been executed in the light of the provisions
of the Act of 1921. In re Morris's Estate, 138 N. C. 259;
Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137. That Act taxes, not the
property devolving under the exercise of the power of
appointment, but the exercise of that power itself.
If, however, the Court should determine that the expression used, that the administrator should pay all the
charges of administration, does not include inheritance
taxes, then and independently of this holding, the action
of the defendant in error in assessing inheritance taxes
upon the succession of the property, was authorized by the
statute. If the power is to appoint by will, it is necessary
that the will should be executed and properly probated in
order that the estate should vest in the appointee. There
is nothing which would prevent the State from taxing
the exercise of this privilege, as is done in the instant case.
In re Dows, 167 N. Y. 227; Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278;
In re Delano, 176 N. Y. 486; Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S.
466.
The statute thus interpreted in no way offends against
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
Orr v. Gilman, supra; Chanlerv. Kelsey, supra; Bullen v.
Wisconsin, supra; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473;
Rhode Island Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Stanford L. Haynes, of Springfield, Massachusetts, died
May 21, 1920, leaving a will which was duly probated at
that place. The fifth clause gave to the Springfield Safe
Deposit & Trust Company, Massachusetts corporation,
the residue of the estate in trust, one-half to be set aside
and the net income paid to his daughter, Theodosia, so
long as she should live, and at her death to be transferred

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

to "such person or persons and in such proportions as
said Theodosia shall by will appoint, or in the event that
said Theodosia shall fail to exercise the power of appointment hereby conferred upon her and shall leave issue
surviving her, such payment and transfer shall be made
to such issue by right of representation." The corporation accepted the trust and received a large fund.
After her father's death Theodosia intermarried with
Taylor and resided at Morgantown, North Carolina. She
died there June 23, 1921, leaving an infant child. By will
dated March 18, 1921, executed in North Carolina and
adequate under the laws of that State and of Massachusetts, she directed that the property described by the
fifth clause of her father's will should be divided between
her husband and child. She also disposed of some land
and personal property in North Carolina. The will was
duly probated in the latter State and plaintiff in error
became administrator of the estate. The fund held by the
Trust Company and subject to appointment was made up
of stocks and bonds valued at $395,279.93.
Section 6, c. 34, Public Laws N. C. 1921, ratified March
8, 1921, directs that all real and personal property passing
by will or the intestate laws of the State shall be subject
to a tax, and--" Whenever any person or corporation
shall exercise a power of appointment derived from any
disposition of property made either before or after the
passage of this Act, such appointment when made shall
be deemed a transfer taxable under the provisions of this
Act, in the same manner as though the property to which
such appointment relates belonged absolutely to the
donee of such power and had been bequeathed or devised
by such donee by will, and the rate shall be determined by
the relationship between the beneficiary under the power
and the donor; and whenever any person or corporation possessing such power of appointment so derived
shall omit or fail to exercise the same within the time

WACHOVIA TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
567

573

Opinion of the Court.

provided therefor, in whole or in part, a transfer taxable
under the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to take
place to the extent of such omission or failure in the same
manner as though the persons or corporations thereby
becoming entitled to the possession or enjoyment of the
property to which such power related had succeeded
thereto by a will of the donee of the power failing to exercise such power, taking effect at the time of such omission or failure."
Acting under this statute, the proper officer demanded
payment of a tax computed upon the value of the property which passed under the appointment by Mrs. Taylor.
The Supreme Court-N. C.-approved the demand and
specifically held that enforcement would not offend the
Fourteenth Amendment by depriving the interested
parties of property without due process of law. It declared that the statute taxed the exercise of the power
of appointment made by permission and under direct protection of local laws. 189 N. C. 50.
In Orr v. Gilman, 183 U. S. 278, and Chanler v. Kelsey,
205 U. S. 466, this Court held that by an Act passed subsequent to the instrument which created a power of appointment New York might tax its execution without
violating the Fourteenth Amendment. But in each of
these causes the first testator, or creator of the trust, and
the trustees thereunder were residents of New York and
the fund was there held. Here the original testator resided in Massachusetts, his will was probated there, and
the trustee holds the funds there for disposition under the
local laws. The power of appointment was exercised by a
resident of North Carolina by a will there executed and
that State has attempted to impose the tax. These circumstances differentiate the causes.
In "Chanlerv. Kelsey, the statute, c. 284 N. Y. Laws
1897, provided-" Whenever any person or corporation
shall exercise the power of appointment derived from any

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

disposition of property made either before or after the
passage of this Act, such appointment when made shall
be deemed a transfer taxable under the provisions of this
Act, in the same manner as though the property to which
such appointment relates belonged absolutely to the donee
of such power and had been bequeathed or devised by such
donee by will; and whenever any person or corporation
possessing such a power of appointment so derived shall
omit or fail to exercise the same within the time provided
therefor, in whole or in part, a transfer taxable under the
provisions of this Act shall be deemed to take place to the
extent of such omissions or failure, in the same manner
as though the persons or corporations thereby becoming
entitled to the possession or enjoyment of the property to
which such power related had succeeded thereto by a will
of the donee of the power failing to exercise such power,
taking effect at the time of such omission or failure."
[Mrs. Delano, acting under the power granted by her
father, appointed by her will those who should take the
full beneficial interest in property held by trustees in New
York and actually located there. The New York court
held that the tax was upon the exercise of the power by
will as an effective transfer within the purposes of the Act,
and this Court said: "The Court of Appeals of New
York had the exclusive right to construe instruments of
title in that State and determine for itself the creation and
vesting of estates through wills under the laws of the
State." "That power was exercised under the will of
Laura Delano, a right which was conferred upon her
under the laws of the State of New York and for the
exercise of which the statute was competent to impose
the tax in the exercise of the sovereign power of the legislature over the right to make a disposition of property
by will."
Except perhaps where the instrument which created
the power provides that the appointment must be by will

WACHOVIA TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
567

575

Opinion of the Court.

executed according to the law of the donee's domicile, to
be proved and allowed there, the following propositions
are established in Massachusetts: "Personal property
over which one has the power of appointment is not the
property of the donee, but of the donor of the power."
The appointee takes, not as the legatee of him who appoints, but of the original donor. "Property in the hands
of domestic trustees appointed under the will of a domestic
testator, who conferred a power of appointment upon a
non-resident, must be distributed according to the law
of this Commonwealth and . . the execution of the
power must be interpreted according to our law and in
conformity to the power conferred." Walker v. Treasurer
& Receiver General, 221 Mass. 600, 602, 603, and cases
there cited; Shattuck v. Burrage, 229 Mass. 448. These
principles are commonly accepted. Blount v. Walker, 134
U. S. 607; United States v. Field, 255 U. S. 257, 264;
Murphy v. DeichIer, House of Lords L. R. (1909), A. C.
446; In re Harriman'sEstate,208 N. Y. S. 672; Matter of
New York Life Insurance & Trust Co., 209 N. Y. 585;
Bingham's Appeal, 64 Pa. St. 345; Rhode Island Trust Co.
v. Dunnell, 34 R. I. 394; Prince de Beam v. Winans, 111
Md. 434; State ex rel. Bankers' Trust Co. v. Walker, 70
Mont. 484; Estate of Bowditch, 189 Cal. 377.
We think the assets of the trust estate established by
the will of Haynes had no situs, actual or constructive, in
North Carolina. The exercise of the power of appointment was subject to the laws of Massachusetts and
nothing relative thereto was done by permission of the
State where Mrs. Taylor happened to have her domicile.
No right exercised by the donee was conferred on her by
North Carolina. A State may not subject to taxation
things wholly beyond her jurisdiction or control. Frick v.
Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473.
The judgment below must be
Reversed.

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

272 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES.

In Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625, where a fund was
given in trust for the donor's widow and children, reserving to the donor a general power of revocation and the
disposition of the income during his life, it was held that
upon his death an inheritance tax could be levied in Wisconsin, the place of his domicile, although the trustee and
trust fund were outside of the jurisdiction. The general
power was considered to have the same effect as ownership. In this case the power was not so broad, because it
was to be executed only by will; but the command over
the fund was substantially the same. Mrs. Taylor, the
donee, had the life interest and the power to dispose of the
remainder by a will which she could bind herself to make.
I dare say that it may be desirable to limit the universita3
as was done in Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, but
I cannot help doubting whether the present decision can
be reconciled with Bullen's case.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur
in this view.
OTTINGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW
YORK, v. CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY OF
NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 357. Argued October 18, 19, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.
An Act of New York, c. 899, (1923), prescribing a gas rate of one
dollar per thousand feet, held confiscatory. P. 579.
6 F. (2d) 243, modified and affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court enjoining enforcement of a New York rate-fixing statute, in a
suit brought by the Gas Company against the Attorney

