EMMONS CO. v. NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. 709
Counsel for Parties.
EMMONS COAL MINING COMPANY ET AL. V. NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD

CIRCUIT.

No. 70. Argued December 10, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
A tariff governing demurrage at a coal-loading port provided that a
car should be considered released when a vessel registered for the
cargo or fuel supply of which the coal was part, or when the car
was unloaded prior to such registry; that to avoid delay of switching out and delivering on shipper's order in actual sequence of their
arrival cars containing the same grade of coal, "the dates on
which cars should have been released will be substituted for those
on which equivalent tonnage was actually delivered, and detention
Nill be computed on the basis of such substituted dates "; and that
the date when a shipment was transferred by written order and
acceptance to another party should be the date of release of the
car as to the original consignee, and subsequent detention should
be charged to new consignee without free time allowance. Held,
that a decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission should be
followed which construed these provisions as applicable when, pursuant to a pooling and exchange arrangement among several shippers, the loaded cars of one shipper were delivered on the order
of another, like cars of the former being retained for the latter
and detention chargeable to the latter being computed from the
notice of arrival of his own coal to time of delivery on his order
of the substituted tonnage. P.712.
;3 F. (2d) 525, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a judgment of the District Court (287
Fed. 168) in favor of the Railway, in its action to recover
denurrage charges from the Coal Company and its surety,
the Fidelity & Casualty Company of New York.
Mr. J. T. Manning, Jr., with whom Mr. William G.
Wright was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. Hamilton Cheston, with whom Messrs. F. M.
Rivinus and Theodore W. Reath were on the brief, for
defendant in error.

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

MA. JusmcE Hoy Es delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by the Norfolk and Western Railway
Company to recover demurrage on cars at Lambert's
:Point, Virginia, from the Emmons Coal Mining Company and its surety. An affidavit of defence upon matters of law was filed, but was held insufficient by the
District Court, 287 Fed. 168, and judgment subsequently
was entered for the plaintiff. The judgment was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 3 F. (2nd) 525.
To facilitate the delivery of coal at tidewater some of
the owners of mines upon the lines of the Railway made
an arrangement with the latter by which the cars were
sorted at Lambert's Point upon different tracks according
to the quality of the coal, and delivery was made to their
respective customers from the cars most convenient at
the moment, irrespective of ownership, if the seller had
that amount of coal on hand in cars within the space
limits agreed. To work this out the parties formed an
association, called the Lamberts Point Coal Exchange,
with a manager who kept books in which he credited to
each owner coal destined to the Point as soon as it passed
Bluefield, West Virginia, noting its quality, and ordered
delivery within the amount so credited, as required, to
the owner's customers. If the delivery were required to
be from the consignor's own cars, as it would be in the
absence of agreement, of course if the cars were detained
beyond the allowed time demurrage would be payable.
When under the arrangement one member's cars were
emptied to fill the order of another member, other cars
with similar coal would have to be kept, in order to satisfy
the first member's right when it came to assert it, and it
should pay as in the first case, since the delay would be
the same to the railroad whichever of its cars were detained. The responsibility of the owner for them is the

EMMONS CO. v. NORFOLK & WESTERN RY. 711
709

Opinion of the Court.

natural corollary of the benefit that each owner gets by
having its order filled from the nearest cars.
In the present case the demurrage demanded is fixed
by the foregoing rule. The plaintiffs in error say that
by the tariff that governs the matter they can be charged
only for the cars actually used and detained by them;
that to make the tariff cover a substitution it must be
modified by the rules of the Exchange, which cannot be
done, and that if there is a claim against anyone, it is a
claim against the Lamberts Point Coal Exchange.
The last point may be dispatched in a few words. The
articles of organization of the Exchange provide that the
member shall be responsible to the Railway for demurrage, and that the shipping instructions, &c., "shall show
as the consignee the name of the member for whose
account shipped, followed by the words 'care Lamberts
Point Coal Exchange Pool-.'" The Coal Company's
consignments were in accordance with the agreement,
and by the agreement or without it made the Company
the consignee. We come therefore to the tariff the construction of which is the only point much argued in the
case.
The important clauses are in Rule 3, and Rule 4.
"(b) A car shall be considered as released:
" 1. At the time vessel registers for the cargo or fuel
supply of which the coal, coal briquets or coke dumped
into such vessel is a part, except that when cars are
unloaded before the vessel registers such cars shall be
released when unloaded.
"2. To avoid delay that would be entailed in switching
out and delivering on shipper's order, in actual sequence
of arrival, cars containing the same grade of coal, as indicated by the identifying consigning names or numbers
on the waybills, the dates on which cars should have
been so released (as indicated by the record) will be
substituted for the dates on which equivalent tonnage

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court..

272 U. S.

was actually delivered and the detention will be computed
on the basis of such substituted dates.
"3. The dates shipments are transferred by written
order and acceptance to another party shall be considered
the date of release of the car for the account of the original consignee and subsequent detention shall be charged
in the account of the new consignee without any free
1ime allowance."
"Rule 4.--Demurrage Charges
"Settlement shall be made on the basis of detention to
al cars released during the month. The date of arrival
notice shall be subtracted from the date of release. From
the total days detention to all cars thus obtained, deduct
all Sundays and legal holidays following the date of
arrival and five (5) days free time allowance for each
car, except on cars containing coke for export deduct ten
(10) days free time allowance for each car: the remainder, if any, will be the number of days to be charged at
the rate of $2.00 per car per day. Excess credit days of
any one month cannot be deducted from the excess debit
days of another month."
These clauses were construed by the Interstate Commerce Commission in an able opinion as authorizing the
'substitution of any car containing a similar grade of
coal for the one ordered dumped,' when the parties have
so agreed, and as warranting the charges questioned here.
They also were held reasonable as so construed. Smokeless Fuel Co. v. Norfolk & Western Ry. Co., 85 I. C. C.
395. The matter is one upon which the opinion of the
Commission would carry great weight, even if we thought
its conclusion less obvious than we do. See also Smokeless Fuel Co.v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 142 Va. 355.
The fairness and reasonableness of it ought to prevail
against meticulous arguments drawn from the fact that

MILLER v. MILWAUKEE.
709

Counsel for Parties.

the rules are made with unassociated shippers most prominently in mind, or from rarely realized possibilities of
demurrage being charged where coal is delivered on the
credit of cars actually in transit from Bluefield, although
those cars are not delayed.

In the ordinary course of

things cars will be kept on hand to answer the mine
owner's credit, and it is for its as well as for the Railway's
advantage that they need not be the very cars that the
mine owner has used.
Judgment affirmed.
MILLER Er AL., EXECUTORS, v. MILWAUKEE.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 73.

Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. Conduct which in usual situations the law protects may become
unlawful when part of a scheme to reach a prohibited result. P. 715.
2. Where income from bonds of the United States which by Act of
Congress is exempt from state taxation is reached'purposely, in the
case of corporation-owned bonds, by exempting the income therefrom in the hands of the corporation, and taxing only so much of
the stockholder's dividends as corresponds to the corporate income
not assessed, the tax is invalid. P. 714.

Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court (January 9,
1925) in favor of Fred Miller and Elise K. John, as executors of the will of Ernest G. Miller, in their suit against
the City of Milwaukee to recover the amount of income
taxes alleged to have been unconstitutionally collected
under the laws of Wisconsin, from their testator.
Mr. A. W. Schutz for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Walter J. Mattison, with whom Mr. John M. Niven
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

