LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 533
Syllabus.
LUCKENBACH STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 32.

Argued March 11, 12, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.

1. An appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims (entered April
28, 1924,) applied for while a motion for a new trial and amended
findings was pending, though premature, was not a nullity, and
became effective when the motion was denied and the appeal
allowed. P. 534.
2. Time did not run against the right to appeal while the motion
for new trial and amended findings was pending. P. 535.
3. The limits placed by Congress on the scope of review in this Court
of judgments of the Court of Claims, do not deprive defeated
claimants of due process of law under the Fifth Amendment.
P. 536.
4. Under the law and rules governing the subject, review of judgments
of the Court of Claims is confined to questions of law shown by the
record when made up as the rules direct. Evidence is not included
in the record, nor rulings on the admission or rejection of evidence.
P. 537.
5. Where the findings are ambiguous, contradictory or silent in respect
of a material matter, or appear on their face ill-founded in point
of law, the case may and should be remanded for corrected or
additional findings, but this is to be done only where the need for
correction or addition is apparent either on the face of the findings
or when they are examined in connection with the pleadings. P. 539.
6. An order of the Court of Claims overruling a motion for a new
trial, which brought nothing new into the case, held not reviewable.
P. 540.
7. Evidential and plainly subordinate matter is inappropriate to a
finding of ultimate facts. P. 540.
8. A finding of the value of property taken by the Government held
a finding of fact, and not reviewable. P. 540.
9. A claimant is not in position to press requests for findings which
do not appear to have been tendered to the Court of Claims as
required by the Rule. P. 541.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

10. Where an owner of boats which were taken over by the United
States under the Act of June 15, 1917, elected not to accept as
full compensation the sum fixed by the President, but to accept
three-fourths of it, under the Act, and sue for more, but recovered
only the additional fourth which he had declined to accept, he
was not entitled under the Fifth Amendment to interest on such
deferred compensation. P. 541.
59 Ct. Cls. 628, affirmed.

Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for a balance alleged to be due appellant on
several barges and tugs, which were taken over by the
Government under the Act of June 15, 1917.
Messrs. C. C. Daniels and Peter S. Carterfor the appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Joseph Henry Cohen,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was a suit to recover a balance alleged to be due
for several barges and tugs, the possession of and title to
which were taken over by the United States under the
Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182. The compensation fixed at the time by the President not being satisfactory to the claimant, three-fourths of it was paid, and
the claimant, conformably to the Act, sued to recover a
further sum which, with what was paid, was alleged to be
just compensation. The Court of Claims found that the
amount fixed by the President was just and entered judgment for the claimant for the one-fourth remaining unpaid. 59 Ct. Cl. 628. The claimant being still dissatisfied brought the case here.
The judgment was entered April 28, 1924. The claimant seasonably moved for a new trial and included in

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 535
533

Opinion of the Court.

the motion a request for amended findings. While that
motion was pending the claimant, becoming apprehensive
lest the time allowed for an appeal might be running,
filed with the clerk an application for an appeal from
the judgment. Thereafter the motion for a new trial,
with the request for amended findings, was denied, and the
application for an appeal was then brought to the Court's
attention and allowed. A little later the claimant applied
for an appeal from the order refusing a new trial and
amended findings and the court allowed that appeal.
Counsel for the United States insist that neither appeal
was effective. Plainly the second was not, for it was
from an order which was not appealable. But the first
was from the judgment and we think it was well taken.
The only infirmity suggested is that the application was
premature in that it was made before the motion for a
new trial and amended findings was disposed of. It is
true that with that motion pending the judgment was
not so far final as to cause time to rtin against the right
to appeal, United States v. Ellicott, 223 U. S. 524, 539;
but while the application was thus premature it was not
a nullity. Evidently it was intended to be pressed only
if and when the motion for a new trial and amended findings was denied. The court so regarded it, and therefore
gave effect to it after disposing of the pending motion.
That this was right is shown in Ex parte Roberts, 15
Wall. 384, 385.
After the record was filed in this Court the claimant
moved that the case be remanded to the Court of Claims
with directions either to find or refuse to find each of
the several matters specified in the request for amended
findings, or, in the alternative, to include in the record
the motion for a new trial and that request, together
with the evidence on which they were based. Consideration of the motion to remand was postponed to the hearing on the merits, and that hearing has been had.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The presentation of the case on behalf of the claimant has proceeded on the assumption that our power to
review is as broad as the power of the Court of Claims
to hear and determine in the first instance, and that such
a review if not otherwise provided for is vouchsafed by
the due process of law clause of the Fifth Amendment.
But the assumption is a mistaken one. The Court of
Claims is a special tribunal established to hear and determine suits against the United States on claims of
specified classes. Except as Congress has consented,
there is no right to bring these suits against the United
States, and therefore the right arising from the consent
is subject to such restrictions as Congress has imposed.
McElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426, 440. One of
these is that the trial shall be by the court withQut a
jury. Another, in force until changed by the Act of
February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, forbade an appellate review where the decision was against the claimant
and the amount in controversy was not in excess of
three thousand dollars. Others, still in force, limit the
scope of the review where one is permitted. And, apart
from the nature of these suits, the well settled rule applies that an appellate review is not essential to due
process of law, but is a matter of grace. McKane v.
Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687; Andrews v. Swartz, 156
U. S. 272, 275; Kohl v. Lehlback, 160 U. S. 293, 297, 299;
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505,508; The FrancisWright,
105 U. S. 381, 386; Montana Company v. St. Louis Mining and Milling Company, 152 U. S. 160, 171.
The Constitution, Art. III, sec. 2, declares the appellate
jurisdiction of this Court shall be subject to "such exceptions" and be exercised under "such regulations" as
Congress may prescribe. This provision was much considered in The Francis Wright, supra, and the views there
expressed are particularly apposite here. The Court said
(p. 386):

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES 537
533

Opinion of the Court.

"Authority to limit the jurisdiction necessarily carries
with it authority to limit the use of the jurisdiction. Not
only may whole classes of cases be kept out of the jurisdiction altogether, but particular classes of questions
may be subjected to re-examination and review, while
others are not. To our minds it is no more unconstitutional to provide that issues of fact shall not be retried
in any case, than that neither issues of law nor fact shall
be retried in cases where the value of the matter in dispute is less than $5,000. The general power to regulate
implies power to regulate in all things. The whole of
a civil law appeal may be given, or a part. The constitutional requirements are all satisfied if one opportunity is had for a trial of all parts of a case. Everything
beyond that is a matter of legislative discretion, not of
constitutional right."
Save in special cases not needing present mention,
Congress never has provided for a general review by this
Court of cases coming from the Court of Claims. On the
contrary-and probably because that court is composed
of five judges, all usually hearing cases together and the
concurrence of three being necessary to a decision in
any case-Congress has pursued the policy of permitting
only a limited review on questions of law; and the
procedural rules applicable to such cases which this
Court has promulgated under congressional authorization always have recognized that policy. The rules
in force when this case was before the Court of Claims
are copied in the margin.' Others promulgated since
'RuLE I.
In all cases hereafter decided in the Court of Claims, in which, by
the Act of Congress, such appeals are allowable, they shall be heard

in the Supreme Court upon the following record, and none other:
(1) A transcript of the pleadings in the case, of the final judgment
or decree of the court, and of such interlocutory orders, rulings,
judgments, and decrees as may be necessary to a proper review of
the case.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

and equally recognizing the same policy, are also copied
there.'
This Court uniformly has regarded the legislation and
rules as confining the review to questions of law shown by
the record when made up as the rules direct. Bills of exception are not recognized in either the legislation or the
rules; nor is there other provision for bringing the evidence into the record or including therein the various
rulings involved in applying to the evidence presented the
rules which mark the line between what properly may be
considered and what must be rejected. As long ago as
Mahan v. United States, 14 Wall. 109, 111, this Court
said of the rules that they could not be examined "with(2) A finding by the Court of Claims of the facts in the case,
established by the evidence, in the nature of a special verdict, but
not the evidence establishing them; and a separate statement of the
conclusions of law upon said facts on which the court founds its judgment or decree. The finding of facts and conclusions of law to be
certified to this court as part of the record.
RuLE III.

In all cases an order of allowance of appeal by the Court of Claims,
or the chief justice thereof in vacation, is essential, and the limitation
of time for granting such appeal shall cease to run from the time an
application is made for the allowance of appeal.
RuLE IV.

In all cases in which either party is entitled to appeal to the
Supreme Court, the Court of Claims shall make and file their findings
of fact and their conclusions of law therein, in open court, before
or at the time they enter judgment in the case.
RuLE V.

In every such case, each party, at such time before trial, and in
such form as the court may prescribe, shall submit to it a request
to find all the facts which the party considers proven and deems material to the due presentation of the case in the findings of fact.
following rules partly modifying those just set forth were
promulgated June 8, 1925, 266 U. S.683:
2The

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES 539
533

Opinion of the Court.

out seeing that the purpose was to bring nothing here
for review but questions of law, leaving the Court of
Claims to exercise the functions of a jury in finding facts,
equivalent to a special verdict and with like effect."
Other cases establish that where the findings are ambiguous, contradictory or silent in respect of a material matter,
or appear on their face ill-founded in point of law, the
case may and should be remanded for corrected or additional findings, but that the mere assertion on the part
of a complaining party that they are against the evidence
or not supported by it, or give too much or too little
weight to particular evidence, affords no ground for so
remanding the case, because that is to be done only where
the need for correction or addition is apparent either on
the face of the findings or when they are examined in
connection with the pleadings. United States v. Adams,
6 Wail. 101, 110-112; Moore v. United States, 91 U. S.
RULE 38.
JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF CLAIMS-PETITIONS FOR
REVIEW ON CERTIORARI.
(See sec. 3(b) of the Act of February 13, 1925.)
1. In any case in the Court of Claims where both parties request
in writing, at the time the case is submitted, that the facts be specially found, it shall be the duty of that court to make and enter
special findings of fact as part of its judgment.
2. In any case in that court where special findings of fact are not
so requested at the time the case is submitted, a party aggrieved by
the judgment' may, not later than twenty days after its rendition,
request the court in writing to find the facts specially; and thereupon
it shall be the duty of the court to make special findings of fact in
the case and, by an appropriate order, to make them a part of its
judgment. The judgment shall be regarded as remaining under the
court's control for this purpose.
3. The special findings required by the two preceding paragraphs
shall be in the nature of a special verdict, and shall set forth the
ultimate facts found from the evidence, but not the evidence from
which they are found.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

270; United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214, 218-219;
United States v. Clark, 96 U. S. 37, 38-39; McClure v.
United States, 116 U. S. 145; Union Pacific Ry. Co. v.
United States, 116 U. S. 154; same case, 116 U. S. 402;
District of Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S. 146, 150;
Brothers v. United States, 250 U. S. 88, 93.
In this case the findings are direct, free from ambiguity,
consistent, fully responsive to the issues, and contain
nothing indicating thahi they or any of them are illfounded in point of law; and the unavoidable conclusion
from them is that the judgment is for the right sum,
unless there be merit in a contention respecting interest
to be noticed later on. So, whether taken by themselves
or in connection with the pleadings, they are not open to
criticism, unless possibly as to the matter of interest.
A copy of the motion for a new trial and request for
amended findings is exhibited with the motion to remand.
The motion for a new trial brought nothing new into the
case, and the order overruling it is not open to review.
The request for amended findings asked that two of the
findings be changed-one by including therein matters
which at most are plainly evidential and subordinate, and
therefore not to be included in a finding of ultimate facts;
and the other by increasing the amount found to be just
compensation for the vessels at the time they were taken
over from $1,500,000 to $4,777,000-more than three times
what the court found it to be. Whether one amount or
the other was the true one was a question of fact. The
court refused to change the finding and thereby affirmed
that the fact was as stated therein. This Court cannot
re-examine the question, and the fact that the claimant is
still dissatisfied constitutes no ground for remanding the
question to the Court of Claims for re-examination by it.
As part of its request for amended findings the claimant
tendered twenty-seven additional findings and asked that
they be adopted. All were rejected. There is no showing

LUCKENBACH S. S. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 541
533

Opinion of the Court.

that they had been tendered theretofore in conformity to
the fifth rule, before quoted; and if that was not done
the claimant was not in a position to press them. United
States v. Driscoll, 131 U. S. Appendix clix. As to many,
if not all, there are also other reasons why the court was
free to reject them. Many state matters which, even if
true, are evidential only; some are merely argumentative,
and others contain statements having no relation to the
issues under the pleadings. It must be held therefore that
neither the motion for a new trial nor the request for
amended findings gives any support to the motion to remand. Independently of them it lays no foundation for
granting what it asks.
The remaining question is whether there should have
been an allowance of interest. The vessels were not taken
over at the outset, nor until after the compensation had
been fixed by the President at $1,500,000, and the officer
who was to take them over had been instructed to pay
that sum to the claimant on receiving the vessels with
proof of ownership and bill of sale. The claimant was
advised of this, and possession of the vessels was passed
to the officer a few days later. But it developed that the
claimant, although theretofore in possession and operating the vessels, was the real owner of only two of them.
The claimant then procured bills of sale to it from the
owners of the other vessels and executed a bill of sale to
the United States for all. This was about two weeks after
possession was passed to the officer. The officer was prepared and willing to pay the full $1,500,000 when the bill
of sale was delivered to him, but the claimant was not
willing to accept it as full compensation. Afterwards the
claimant elected to accept three-fourths of it, and to reserve a right to sue for enough more to make full compensation. The three-fourths was then paid. This was
about six weeks after the delivery of the bill of sale. The
judgment awards the remaining one-fourth as a sufficient

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

sum, with that already paid, to make just compensation
for the vessels at the time they were taken over. In short,
while the United States was prepared, willing and offering
when the vessels were taken over to pay the sum now
adjudged to have been just compensation at that time,
the claimant was not then in a position entitling it to
demand or receive compensation because as yet it was
without a good title and had not executed a bill of sale to
the United States; and after it became entitled to compensation it rejected the offer, which was still outstanding, to pay that sum in full payment and elected to accept
three-fourths as a partial payment and to take chances on
enlarging the compensation by resorting to this suit
against the United States. The effort to obtain an enlargement has resulted, as already shown, in establishing
that the amount offered and rejected was all that justly
could have been demanded. In these circumstances we
think such postponement as has occurred in the actual
payment of the compensation is attributable entirely to
the claimant, and therefore that an allowance of interest
to the time of payment is not in this case made essential
by the constitutional provision expounded and applied in
SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299,
306, and Brooks-Scanlon Corporation v. United States,
265 U. S. 106, 123.
Judgment affirmed.
SALINGER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 238. Argued October 21, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.
1. The statutes which define and distribute federal appellate jurisdiction and make the existence of a constitutional question fhe

test of the right to a review, as also of the court in which the
review may be had, always have been construed as referring to a

