EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
359

365

Syllabus.

agreed to abide by the will of the associations. Such is
the fair interpretation of the combination and of the
various requirements under it, and this is borne out by the
actual experience of the petitioner in his efforts to secure
employment. These shipowners and operators having
thus put themselves into a situation of restraint upon
their freedom to carry on interstate and foreign commerce

according to their own choice and discretion, it follows, as
the case now stands, that the combination is in violation
of the Anti-Trust Act.
Decree reversed and cause remanded to the district

court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

VILLAGE OF EUCLID ET AL. V. AMBLER REALTY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 31.

Argued January 27, 1926; reargued October 12, 1926.Decided November 22, 1926.

1. A suit to enjoin the enforcement, of a zoning ordinance with
respect to the plaintiff's land, need not be preceded by any application on his part for a building permit, or for relief under the
ordinance from the board which administers it, where the gravamen of the bill is that the ordinance of its own force operates
unconstitutionally to reduce the value of the land and destroy its
marketability, and the attack is not against specific provisions but
against the ordinance in its entirety. P. 386.
2. While the meaning of constitutional guaranties never varies, the
scope of their application must expand or contract to meet the
new and different conditions which are constantly coming within
the field of their operation. P. 386.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U.S.

3. The question whether the power exists to forbid the erection of a
building of a particular kind or for a particular use, like the question whether a particular thing is a nuisance, is to be determined
by considering the building or the thing, not abstractly but in connection with the circumstances and the locality. P. 387.
4. If the validity of the legislative classification for zoning purposes
be fairly debatable, the legislative judgment must be allowed to
control. P. 388.
5. No serious difference of opinion exists in respect of the validity of
laws and regulations fixing the height of buildings within reasonable
limits, the character of materials and methods of construction,
and the adjoining area which must be left open, in order to minimize the danger of fire or collapse, the evils of over-crowding, and
the like, and excluding from residential sections offensive trades,
industries, and structures likely to create nuisances. P. 388.
6. The same power may be extended to a general exclusion from
residential districts of all industrial establishments, though some
may not be dangerous or offensive; for the inclusion of a reasonable
margin to insure effective enforcement will not put upon a law,
otherwise valid, the stamp of invalidity. P. 388.
7. The power to relegate industrial establishments to localities separate from residential sections is not to be denied upon the gromid
that its exercise will divert a flow of industrial development from
the course which it would follow and will thereby injure the complaining land-owner. P. 389.
8. The police power supports also, generally speaking, an ordinance
forbidding the erection in designated residential districts, of business houses, retail stores and shops, and other like establishments,
also of apartment houses in detached-house sections-since such
ordinances, apart from special applications, can not be declared
clearly arbitrary and unreasonable, and without substantial relation
to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. P. 390.
9. Where an injunction is sought against such an ordinance, upon
the broad ground that its mere existence and threatened enforcement, by materially and adversely affecting values and curtailing
the opportunities of the market, constitute a present and irreparable injury, the court, finding the ordinance in its general scope
and dominant features valid, will not scrutinize its provisions, sentence by sentence, to ascertain by a process of piecemeal dissection whether there may be, here and there, provisions of a minor
character, or relating to matters of administration, or not shown

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Argument for Appellants.

to contribute to the injury complained of, which, if attacked separately, might not withstand the test of constitutionality. P. 395.
297 Fed. 307, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the Village and its Building Inspector from enforcing a
zoning ordinance. The suit was brought by an owner of
unimproved land within the corporate limits of the village, who sought the relief upon the ground that, because
of the building restrictions imposed, the ordinance operated to reduce the normal value of his property, and to
deprive him of liberty and property without due process
of law.
Mr. James Metzenbaum for the appellants.
The police power is very wide, C. B. & Q. Ry. v. Drainage Comnmrs., 200 U. S. 561; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113, and adequate to meet new conditions, Bacon v.
Walker, 204 U. S. 317; Hadachek v. Los Angeles, 239 U. S.
394; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52; Barbierv. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27; Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104. Legislation under it is presumptively legal. Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 718; Powell v.
Penn, 127 U. S. 684. Courts will not assume the function
of the legislative branch, Barbier v. Connolly, supra. To
be unconstitutional, the legislation must have no relation
to health and welfare. Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S.
526; Salt Lake City v. Foundry Co., 55 Utah 452; State v.
Withnell, 91 Neb. 513; Armour & Co. v. North Dakota,
240 U. S. 510. Unconstitutionality must be plainly and
palpably clear. Jacobsonv. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11;
Cusack Co. v. Chicago, supra. The law must be plainly
and manifestly unreasonable, Cusack Co. v. Chicago,
supra; Porterv. Wilson, 239 U. S. 170. Illegality must be
clearly established, Sinking Fund Cases, supra; Powell v.
Pennsylvania,127 U. S. 678; People v. Warden, 216 N. Y.
154; People v. Schweinter Press, 214 U. S. 395. Financial

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellants.

272 U. S.

loss is not the test, Hadachek v. Los Angeles, 239 U. S.
394; United States v. Noble, 237 U. S. 78; Reimman v.
Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Erie R. R. Co. v. Williams,
233 U. S. 700; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Sheehan
v. Scott, 145 Cal. 684; Cochranev. Preston, 108 Md. 220;
State v. Cunningham, 97 Oh. St. 130; Biggs v. Steinway,
229 N. Y. 320. Local conditions must be considered,
McLean v. Denver, 203 U. S. 38; Ohio Co. v. Indiana,
177 U. S. 190; Afield v. N. Y. Co., 198 U. S. 361; Welch v.
Swasey, 214 U. S. 91; Pleasay v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537;
Brown v. Walling, 204 U. S. 320.
Though there is unquestionably a "taking" under the
exercise of police power, yet that taking is not such as is
inhibited by or as requires compensation under the Constitution. This view is recognized in the case of Interstate Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 207 U. S. 79. See also
Hadachek v. Los Angeles, 239 U. S. 394; Welch v. Swasey,
214 U. S. 91; Cochrane v. Preston, 108 Md. 220; Publicity Co. v. Supt. of Building, 218 N. Y. 540; Doan Co.
v. Cleveland, 97 Oh. St. 130; Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27. Classification is permitted and even necessary.
C. & N. W. Ry. v. R. R. Comm., 280 Fed. 394; Welch v.
Swasey, supra; Hadachek v. Los Angeles, supra; Powell
v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678.
The courts will not substitute their judgment for that
of the legislature. Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240
U. S. 513; Jacobsonv. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Cusack v. Chicago, 242 U. S.
526; Salt Lake City v. Foundry Works, 55 Utah 447;
C. B. & Q. R. R. v. Haggarty, 67 Ill. 113; Central R. R.
v. Pittus, 113 U. S. 127. The general application and
not one single instance must be the guide. Rochester v.
West, 164 N. Y. 510; Tenement House Dept. v. Moesch en,
179 N. Y. 325; St. Louis Poster Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S.
269; Pierce Oil Corp. v. Hope, 248 U. S. 500; Benz v.
Kremer, 142 Wis. 1.

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.

369

Argument for Appellants.

365

On the validity of the provisions of the ordinance concerning the Board of Appeals, see People v. Board of
Appeals, 234 N. Y. 484; Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 91;
Ayer v. Cram, 242 Mass. 30; Broadway Co. v. Nulle,
203 App. Div. 468; Sanders v. Walsh, 108 Misc. 193;
Mutual Film Co. v. Industrial Comm., 236 U. S. 230;
Presbyteriar Church v. Edgconib, 109 Neb. 18; Chicago
R. R. Co. v. R. R. Comm., 280 Fed. 387; Merrick v.
Halsey & Co., 242 U. S. 590.
The constitutionality of comprehensive zoning ordinances was involved in the following cases:
New York, (favorable): Lincoln Trust Co. v. Williams
Corp., 229 N. Y. 313; People v. Board of Appeals, supra;
In re Russell, 158 N. Y. Supp. 162; People v. Ludwig, 218
N. Y. 240; Barker v. Switzer, 209 App. Div. 151; Wulfsohn
v. Burden, 241 N. Y. 288. Massachusetts, (favorable):
Building Inspector v. Stoklosa, 250 Mass. 52; Spector v.
Milton, 250 Mass. 63; Brett v. Building Commissioner,250
Mass. 73; Welch v. Swasey, 193 Mass. 364, affd. 214 U. S.
91; Parker v. Commonwealth, 178 Mass. 199; Attorney
General v. Williams, 174 Mass. 476; Ayer v. Cram, 242
Mass. 30. New Jersey decisions at least partially opposed
are: State v. Nutley, 99 N. J. L. 389; Handy v. South
Orange, 118 Atl. 838; Ignaciumas v. Risley, 98 N. J. L.
712; Max v. Building Inspector, 127 Atl. 785; Schaite v.
Senior, 97 N. J. L. 390; Cliffside Park Co. v. Cliffside, 96
N. J. L. 278. Maryland, (opposed): Goldman v.
Crowther, 147 Md. 282. Missouri, (opposed): St. Louis
v. Evraiff, 301 Mo. 231; State v. McKelvey, 256 S. W. 495.
Texas: Spann v. Dallas, 111 Texas 350, is not properly a
zoning case. But see Dallas v. Mitchell, 245 S. W. 944.
California, (favorable): Miller v. Board, 195 Cal. 477;
Zahn v. Board, 195 Cal. 497. Cf. Hadachek v. Los
Angeles, 239 U. S. 394; Ex parte Quong Wo, 161 Cal. 220.
Kansas, (favorable): Ware v. Wichita, 113 Kan. 153;
West v. Wichita, 118 Kan. 265. Iowa, (favorable): Des
23W

7

-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellants.

272 U. S.

Moines v. Manhattan Oil Co., 193 Iowa 1096. Louisiana,
(favorable): Calvo v. New Orleans, 136 La. 480; State v.
New Orleans, 142 La. 73; Civello v. New Orleans, 154 La.
271. Connecticut, (favorable): Whitney v. Windsor, 95
Conn. 357. District of Columbia, (favorable): Schwartz
v. Brownlow, 50 App. D. C. 279. Minnesota, (favorable):
Banner Grain Co. v. Houghton, 297 Fed. 317; Twin City
Co. v. Houghton, 144 Minn. 1; Beery v. Houghton, 164
Minn. 146. Wisconsin, (favorable): Carter v. Harper,
182 Wis. 148; Holzbauer v. Ritter, 184 Wis. 35. Ohio,
(favorable): Perrysburg v. Ridgway, 108 Oh. St. 245;
Morris v. Osborn, 22 Oh. N. P. (N. S.) 549; Youngstown
v. Kahn Bros., 112 Oh. St. 654; Bolce v. Hauser, 111 Oh.
St. 402.
See also: Stephens v. Providence, (not yet officially
reported), 133 Atl. 614; Wood v. Boston, (not yet officially reported), 152 N. E. 62; Deynzer v. Evanston, 319
Ill. 226; Aurora v. Burns, Id. 84; Fourcade v. San Francisco, 196 Cal. 655; State v. New Orleans, 159 La. 324;
Bradley v. Board of Zoning Appeals, (not yet officially
reported), 150 N. E. 892.
The Ambler Company-without any application for
revision, amendment or modification of the ordinance and
without desiring to build any kind of structure whatsoever-hastened into court and applied for an injunction
against the enforcement of the ordinance or any part of
it. The decree struck down the entire ordinance. Under the conditions, the Company neither then had nor
has now the right to bring into issue any question other
than that the ordinance is fundamentally and per se in
violation of the federal and state constitutions.
Until the complainant shall at least have applied for a
permit to build some kind of structure; and until such
permit shall have been denied, the complainant does not
have the right to obtain an injunction upon the ground
that the ordinance is unreasonable in its effect upon the
property in question.

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Argument for Appellee.

Mr. Newton D. Baker, with whom Mr. Robert M.
Morgan was on the brief, for the appellee.
The recent industrial development of the City of
Cleveland, following the railroad lines, has already
reached the Village and to some extent extends over
into it. In its obvious course, this industrial expansion
will soon absorb the area in the Village for industrial
enterprises. It is in restraint of this prospect that the
ordinance seeks to operate. In effect it erects a dam to
hold back the flood of industrial development and thus
to preserve a rural character in portions of the Village
which, under the operation of natural economic laws,
would be devoted most profitably to industrial undertakings. This, the evidence shows, destroys value without compensation to the owners of lands who have acquired and are holding them for industrial uses.
Since the industrial development of a great city will
go on, the effect of this attempted action necessarily is
to divert industry to other less suited sites, with a consequent rise in value thereof; so that the loss sustained by
the proprietors of land who cannot so use their land is
gained by proprietors of land elsewhere. In other words,
the property, or value, which is taken away from one set
of people, is, by this law, bestowed upon another set of
people, imposing an uncompensated loss on the one hand
and a gain which is arbitrary and unnatural on the other
hand, since it results, not from the operation of economic
laws, but from arbitrary considerations of taste enacted
into hard and fast legislation. Such legislation also tends
to monopolize business and factory sites.
In the argument below it is alleged, that the Company
could have no matured right of action until it had first
made application for a permit as to specific proposed
uses of its lands, taken appeals from refusals to grant
such permit, and filed petition with the council of the
Village for such amendments as it might deem necessary.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

272 U. S.

The wrong done to the plaintiff below was done when the
ordinance was passed and continues as long as the ordinance is in existence. Prospective purchasers of land
for commercial and industrial development will not even
consider the plaintiff's land so long as the ordinance is in
existence. To require the plaintiff to wait until he can
find a purchaser sufficiently brave and sufficiently patient
to buy a site in the teeth of this ordinance, bear the cost
and delay of preparing plans, applying for a permit and
having it rejected, perfecting an appeal and having it
denied, and then exhausting the possibilities of petitions
for amendment of the ordinance which would permit the
proposed use, would, in fact, deprive the plaintiff of any
remedy whatever, for no such complaisant purchasers can
be found in a competitive real estate market. The plaintiff and others similarly situated with regard to their
lands would simply be required to sit still and see the
normal industrial and commercial development diverted,
as purchasers passed them by and took less desirable
land, free from the necessities of protracted litigation, in
preference to the lands in the Village of Euclid, each acre
of which would require litigation and lobbying before it
could be devoted to entirely lawful and normal uses.
Ordinance No. 2812 is penal in character. That a
court of equity will enjoin the enforcement of a void
statute where the legal remedy is inadequate is no longer
open to question, in view of the decisions of this Court.
Kennington v. Palmer, 255 U. S. 100; United States v.
Schwartz, Id. 102; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Truax
v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Bloch v. Hirsch, 256 U. S. 135;
Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170.
Whether Ordinance No. 2812 rests for its authority
upon the "power of local self-government" granted by
§ 3 of Art. XVIII of the Ohio Constitution, or upon the
attempted donation of power to municipal corporations
by §§ 4366-1 to 4366-12 of the General Code, the same

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Argument for Appellee.

tests must be applied to its validity, and those tests are
whether or not that ordinance is a reasonable and real
exercise of the police power or an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of the powers of local self-government and
an impairment of the rights of property guaranteed to
the plaintiff by the constitutions of the United States and
of Ohio.
The ordinance does not, in fact, pursue any rational
plan, dictated by considerations of public safety, health
and welfare, upon which the police power rests. On the
contrary, it is an arbitrary attempt to prevent the natural
and proper development of the land in the Village prejudicial to the public welfare. This property in the interest of the public welfare, should be devoted to those
industrial uses for which it is needed and most appropriate. Therefore, while it will be necessary for us to
discuss " zoning" and point out what we believe to be
the point of collision between the so-called zoning power
and the Constitution of the United States, the appellee's
primary interest is to protect its property against the
damage wrought by this particular ordinance.
That municipalities have power to regulate the height
of buildings, area of occupation, strengths of building
materials, modes of construction, and density of use, in
the interest of the public safety, health, morals, and welfare, are propositions long since established; that a
rational use of this power may be made by dividing a
municipality into districts or zones, and varying the requirements according to the characteristics of the districts,
is, of course, equally well established. We believe it,
however, to be the law that these powers must be reasonably exercised, and that a municipality may not, under
the guise of the police power, arbitrarily divert property
from its appropriate and most economical uses, or diminish its value, by imposing restrictions which have no other
basis than the momentary taste of the public authorities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

272 U. S.

Nor can police regulations be used to effect the arbitrary
desire to have a municipality resist the operation of economic laws and remain rural, exclusive and aesthetic,
when its land is needed to be otherwise developed by that
larger public good and public welfare, which takes into
consideration the extent to which the prosperity of the
country depends upon the economic development of its
business and industrial enterprises.
The municipal limits of the Village of Euclid are, after
all, arbitrary and accidental political lines. The metropolitan City of Cleveland is one of the great industrial
centers of the United States. If the Village may lawfully prefer to remain rural and restrict the normal
industrial and business development of its land, each of
the other municipalities, circumadjacent to the City of
Cleveland, may pursue a like course. Thus the areas
available for the expanding industrial needs of the metropolitan city will be restricted, the value of such land as is
left available artificially enhanced, and industry driven to
less advantageous sites. All this would be done at the
expense of those land owners whose lands, being most
advantageously located from an industrial point of view,
have as a part of their right of property, which the constitutions of the Nation and the States undertake to protect, the expectation of value due to their superior availability for industrial development. Kahn v. Youngstown,
113 Oh. St. 17; Pritz v. Messer, Id. 89.
The distinction between the power of eminent domain
and the police power is important. In the first place,
there must be a public need, the property proposed to be
taken must be taken for a public use, all the forms of
law must be observed in the taking, and the private
owner ultimately compensated. The courts do not allow
the private owner to argue with the legislative authority
in the exercise of its discretion as to what is a public
need and his opinion is not important in the definitions

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

375

Argument for Appellee.

of a public use, but the books are full of cases in which
the exercise of this power has been stayed, even against
the legislative determination, where the proposed use was
only colorably public and the plain purpose of the appropriation was private advantage, no matter how widely
distributed. Even where the owner is to be fully compensated, his right to retain and use his own property
is protected unless there is a real, as against a pretended,
public need to take it and use it.
Quite different is the police power under which the
ordinance in this case purports to be passed. In every
ordered society the State must act as umpire to the extent of preventing one man from so using his property
or rights as to prevent others from making a correspondingly full and free use of their property and rights. The
abstract right of a man to build a fire trap is limited by
the rights of other people not to have their houses subjected to the peril created by it. The right of a man to
maintain a nuisance on his own property is limited by the
rights of others not to be subjected to the danger of its
proximity. Accordingly, the so-called police power is an
inherent right on the part of the public umpire to prevent misuses of property or rights which impair the
health, safety, or morals of others, or affect prejudicially
the general public welfare.
The limitations imposed by the police power do not
have to be compensated for, for the reason that they are
inherent in the ownership. If I buy a piece of land I
have no means of knowing whether or not it will be
needed for the public use, and if any need develops, I must
be compensated when the public takes it. But I always
know when I buy land, that I may not devote it to uses
which endanger the safety, health, or morals of others or
make its use a cormnon nuisance to the prejudice of the
public welfare. Because of its nature, the exercise of the

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

272 U. S.

police power has always been restrained to those uses of
property which invade the rights of others, and courts
consistently decline to permit an extension of the police
power to uses of property involving mere questions of
taste or preference or financial advantage to others. Unless the theory of our expanding civilization is wrong, the
public welfare is advanced by the devotion of the most
available sites to business and industry, as the need for
them develops. Restrictions upon limited areas have
always been established, when desired, by mutual contracts, and such restrictions have been upheld so long as
they were reasonable, in view of the changing growth and
development of the country. It has, however, only
recently been suggested that use restrictions, which
formerly lay in contract, may be imposed or abrogated by
municipal regulation and that the fleeting legislative
judgment and will of a municipal council can select which,
out of a variety of admittedly innocent uses, it will permit the owners of land to enjoy. Yates v. Milwaukee,
10 Wall. 497.
Even if the world could agree by unanimous consent
upon what is beautiful and desirable, it could not, under
our constitutional theory, enforce its decision by prohibiting a land owner, who refuses to accept the world's view
of beauty, from making otherwise safe and innocent uses
of his land. The case against many of these zoning laws,
however, is much stronger than this. The world has not
reached a unanimous judgment about beauty, and there
are few unlikelier places to look for stable judgments on
such subjects than in the changing discretion of legislative
bodies, moved this way and that by the conflict of commercial interests on the one hand, and the assorted opinions of individuals, moved by purely private concerns, on
the other.
Perhaps the most often quoted definition of the police
power is that of Judge Cooley. Constitutional Limita-

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

377

Argument for Appellee.

tions, 7th ed., p. 245. This limits the power to the
establishment of rules to prevent the conflict of rights.
See also, Id. 768, 839; Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 336;
People v. Road, 9 Mich. 285; Tiedeman, State and Federal
Control, § 146; Freund, Police Power, § 511. Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, sustained the police power in the
regulation of grain elevators, because such property was
held to be affected with a public use, but the court sharply
declined to regard the rule then established as an invasion
of rights purely private. See also Coppage v. Kansas, 236
U. S. 1; Wolf Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations, 262 U. S. 522; 267 Id. 552; Penna. Coal Co. v.
Mahon, 260 U. S. 393; Eubank v. Richmond, 226
U. S. 137.
It has not been difficult for this Court to vindicate the
great guaranties of the Constitution against direct attack.
The trouble comes when these guaranties of individual
rights of liberty and property appear to stand in the way
of some genuinely benevolent and praiseworthy object
which enlists support or enthusiasm, and when only a
little infringement of the right of the individual is asked
to be indulged. Yet the danger of frittering away the
constitutional guaranties by successive encroachments
has always been apparent. Railway Co. v. Commisszoners, 1 Oh. St. 77; Miller v. Crawford, 70 Oh. St. 207;
Williams v. Preslo, 84 Oh. St. 345; Coppage v. Kansas,
236 U. S. 1; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.
It is impossible to reconcile the rulings of the supreme
courts of the States upon the questions here presented.
Each case is, of course, decided on its own facts. Many
of them presented familiar restrictions, more or less
demonstrably involving the public safety, health, or
morals. In some of the cases, although the opinions
seem to sanction very wide extensions of the traditional
police power, the facts involved do not necessitate the
width of the rulings; but even this consideration does

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

272 U. S.

not make it possible to follow through these cases any
thread which leads to an authentic definition and application of the constitutional restraints upon unlimited extensions of the police power. Spann v. Dallas, 111 Tex.
350; Fitzhugh v. Jackson, 132 Miss. 585; State v. Thomas,
96 W. Va. 628; Tighe v. Osborne, 131 Atl. 801; Goldman
v. Crowther, 147 Md. 282; Mayor v. Turk, 129 Ati. 512;
State v. McKelvey, 301 Mo. 130; Ignaciunas v. Rislcy,
98 N. J. L. 712; Lachman v. Haughton, 134 Minn. 226;
Roerig v. Minneapolis, 136 Minn. 479; Blackman v. Atlanta, 151 Ga. 507; State v. Edgcombe, 108 Neb. 859;
Byrne v. Realty Co., 129 Md. 202; Illinois v. Friend, 261
Ill. 16; Windsor v. Whitney, 95 Conn. 357; Losick v.
Binda, 128 Atl. 619; Sarg v. Hooper, 128 Atl. 376; Ingersoll v. South Orange, 128 Atl. 393; Becker v. Dowling,
128 Atl. 395; Summit Co. v. Board, 129 Atl. 819; Reimcr
v. Dallas, 129 Atl. 390; Plymouth v. Bigelow, 129 Atl.
203; Printz v. Board of Adjustment, 129 Atl. 123; Passaic
v. Patterson Bill Co., 72 N. J. L. 285; Youngstown v.
Kahn, 113 Oh. St. 17; Pritz v. Messer, 113 Oh. St. 89.
New conditions may arise and new discoveries be made
that will cause new conceptions of social needs and bring*
within the legislative power fields previously not occupied; but we franldy do not believe that there has been
any such development of new conditions as necessitates
or justifies the communal control of private property attempted by this ordinance, or by many others, some of
which have been sustained by state courts. Restraints and
restrictions upon alienation and use, even when imposed
by covenant, are looked upon with disfavor and construed
strictly in the interest of the free transfer and use of
property. 7 R. C. L. 1115, citing Hutchinson v. Ulrich,
145 Ill. 335; Hitz v. Flower, 104 Oh. St. 47. Yet the
theory of zoning, in its ampler definitions, assumes that
the municipal councils will be able to do, comprehensively, what private owners, most interested, have
found it difficult to do, even on a small scale.

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

That our cities should be made beautiful and orderly is,
of course, in the highest degree desirable, but it is even
more important that our people should remain free.
Their freedom depends upon the preservation of their
constitutional immunities and privileges against the desire
of others to control them, no matter how generous the
motive or well intended the control which it is sought to
impose.
M . JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Village of Euclid is an Ohio municipal corporation.
It adjoins and practically is a suburb of the City of Cleveland. Its estimated population is between 5,000 and
10,000, and its area from twelve to fourteen square miles,
the greater part of which is fa'rm lands or unimproved
acreage. It lies, roughly, in the form of a parallelogram
measuring approximately three and one-half miles each
way. East and west it is traversed by three principal
highways: Euclid Avenue, through the southerly border,
St. Clair Avenue, through the central portion, and Lake
Shore Boulevard, through the northerly border in close
proximity to the shore of Lake Erie. The Nickel Plate
railroad lies from 1,500 to 1,800 feet north of Euclid Avenue, and the Lake Shore railroad 1,600 feet farther to the
north. The three highways and the two railroads are
substantially parallel.
Appellee is the owner of a tract of land containing 68
acres, situated in the westerly end of the village, abutting
on Euclid Avenue to the south and the Nickel Plate railroad to the north. Adjoining this tract, both on the east
and on the west, there have been laid out restricted residential plats upon which residences have been erected.
On November 13, 1922, an ordinance was adopted by
the Village Council, establishing a comprehensive zoning
plan for regulating and restricting the location of trades,

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

industries, apartment houses, two-family houses, single
family houses, etc., the lot area to be built upon, the size
and height of buildings, etc.
The entire area of the village is divided by the ordinance into six classes of use districts, denominated U-1 to
U-6, inclusive; three classes of height districts, denominated H-1 to H-3, inclusive; and four classes of area
districts, denominated A-1 to A-4, inclusive. The use
districts are classified in respect of the buildings which
may be erected within their respective limits, as follows:
U-1 is restricted to single family dwellings, public parks,
water towers and reservoirs, suburban and interurban
electric railway passenger stations and rights of way,
and farming, non-commercial greenhouse nurseries and
truck gardening; U-2 is extended to include two-family
dwellings; U-3 is further extended to include apartment houses, hotels, churches, schools, public libraries,
museums, private clubs, community center buildings,
hospitals, sanitariums, public playgrounds and recreation buildings, and a city hall and courthouse; U-4 is
further extended to include banks, offices, studios, telephone exchanges, fire and police stations, restaurants,
theatres and moving picture shows, retail stores and
shops, sales offices, sample rooms, wholesale stores for
hardware, drugs and groceries, stations for gasoline and
oil (not exceeding 1,000 gallons storage) and for ice
delivery, skating rinks and dance halls, electric substations, job and newspaper printing, public garages for
motor vehicles, stables and wagon sheds (not exceeding
five horses, wagons or motor trucks) and distributing stations for central store and commercial enterprises; U-5 is
further extended to include billboards and advertising
signs (if permitted), warehouses, ice and ice cream manufacturing and cold storage plants, bottling works, milk
bottling and central distribution stations, laundries,
carpet cleaning, dry cleaning and dyeing establishments.

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

blacksmith, horseshoeing, wagon and motor vehicle repair
shops, freight stations, street car barns, stables and wagon
sheds (for more than five horses, wagons or motor trucks),
and wholesale produce markets and salesrooms; U-6 is
further extended to include plants for sewage disposal
and for producing gas, garbage and refuse incineration,
scrap iron, junk, scrap paper and rag storage, aviation
fields, cemeteries, crematories, penal and correctional institutions, insane and feeble minded institutions, storage
of oil and gasoline (not to exceed'25,000 gallons), and
manufacturing and industrial operations of any kind
other than, and any public utility not included in, a class
U-i, U-2, U-3, U-4 or U-5 use. There is a seventh class
of uses which is prohibited altogether.
Class U-1 is the only district in which buildings are
restricted to those enumerated. In the other classes the
uses are cumulative; that is to say, uses in class U-2
include those enumerated in the preceding class, U-i;
class U-3 includes uses enumerated in the preceding
classes, U-2 arid U-1; and so on. In addition to the
enumerated uses, the ordinance provides for accessory
uses, that is, for uses customarily incident to the principal
use, such as private garages. Many regulations are provided in respect of such accessory uses.
The height districts are classified as follows: In class
H-1, buildings are limited to a height of two and onehalf stories or thirty-five feet; in class H-2, to four stories
or fifty feet; in class H-3, to eighty feet. To all of these,
certain exceptions are made, as in the case of church
spires, water tanks, etc.
The classification of area districts is: In A-1 districts,
dwellings or apartment houses to accommodate more than
one family must have at least 5,000 square feet for interior
lots and at least 4,000 square feet for corner lots; in A-2
districts, the area must be at least 2,500 square feet for
interior lots, and 2,000 square feet for corner lots; in A-3

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

districts, the limits are 1,250 and 1,000 square feet, respectively; in A-4 districts, the limits are 900 and 700 square
feet, respectively. The ordinance contains, in great variety and detail, provisions in respect of width of lots, front,
side and rear yards, and other matters, including restrictions and regulations as to the use of bill boards, sign
boards and advertising signs.
A single family dwelling consists of a basement and not
less than three rooms and a bathroom. A two-fanily
dwelling consists of a basement and not less than four
living rooms and a bathroom for each family; and is
further described as a detached dweliing for the occupation of two families, one having its principal living rooms
on the first floor and the other on the second floor.
Appellee's tract of land comes under U-2, U-3 and U-6.
The first strip of 620 feet immediately north of Euclid
Avenue falls in class U-2, the next 130 feet to the north,
in U-3, and the remainder in U-6. The uses of the first
620 feet, therefore, do not include apartment houses,
hotels, churches, schools, or other public and semi-public
buildings, or other uses enumerated in respect of U-3
to U-6, inclusive. The uses of the next 130 feet include
all of these, but exclude industries, theatres, banks, shops,
and the various other uses set forth in respect of U-4 to
U-6, inclusive.*
*The court below seemed to think that the frontage of this property on Euclid Avenue to a depth of 150 feet came under U-1 district,
and was available only for single family dwellings. An examination
of the ordinance and subsequent amendments, and a comparison of
their terms with the maps, shows very clearly, however, that this
view was incorrect. Appellee's brief correctly interpreted the ordinance: "The northerly 500 feet thereof immediately adjacent to the
right of way of the New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company under the original ordinance was classed as U-6 territory and
the rest thereof as U-2 territory. By amendments to the ordinance
a strip 630 [620] feet wide north of Euclid Avenue is classed as U-2
territory, a strip 130 feet wide next north as U-3 territory and the
rest of the parcel to the Nickel Plate right of way as U-6 territory."

EUCLID v. AIBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

Annexed to the ordinance, and made a part of it, is a
zone map, showing the location and limits of the various
use, height and area districts, from which it appears that
the three classes overlap one another; that is to say, for
example, both U-5 and U-6 use districts are in A-4 area
districts, but the former is in H-2 and the latter in H-3
height districts. The plan is a complicated one and can
be better understood by an inspection of the map, though
it does not seem necessary to reproduce it for present
purposes.
The lands lying between the two railroads for the entire
length of the village area and extending some distance
on either side to the north and south, having an average
width of about 1,600 feet, are left open, with slight exceptions, for industrial and all other uses. This includes the
larger part of appellee's tract. Approximately one-sixth
of the area of the entire village is included in U-5 and
U-6 use districts. That part of the village lying south
of Euclid Avenue is principally in U-1 districts. The
lands lying north of Euclid Avenue and bordering on the
long strip just described are included in U-1, U-2, U-3
and U-4 districts, principally in U-2.
The enforcement of the ordinance is entrusted to the
inspector of buildings, under rules and regulations of the
board of zoning appeals. Meetings of the board are publie, and minutes of its proceedings are kept. It is authorized to adopt rules and regulations to carry into effect
provisions of the ordinance. Decisions of the inspector
of buildings may be appealed to the board by any person
claiming to be adversely affected by any such decision.
The board is given power in specific cases of practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship to interpret the ordinance in harmony with its general purpose and intent, so
that the public health, safety and general welfare may be
secure and substantial justice done. Penalties are prescribed for violations, and it is provided that the various

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

provisions are to be regarded as independent and the
holding of any provision to be unconstitutional, void or
ineffective shall not affect any of the others.
The ordinance is assailed on the grounds that it is in
derogation of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution in that it deprives appellee of liberty and property without due process of law and denies
it the equal protection of the law, and that it offends
against certain provisions of the Constitution of the State
of Ohio. The prayer of the bill is for an injunction restraining the enforcement of the ordinance and all attempts to impose or maintain as to appellee's property
any of the restrictions, limitations or conditions. The
court below held the ordinance to be unconstitutional
and void, and enjoined its enforcement. 297 Fed. 307.
Before proceeding to a consideration of the case, it is
necessary to determine the scope of the inquiry. The
bill alleges that the tract of land in question is vacant
and has been held for years for the purpose of selling and
developing it for industrial uses, for which it is especially
adapted, being immediately in the path of progressive
industrial development; that for such uses it has a market
value of about $10,000 per acre, but if the use be limited
to residential purposes the market value is not in excess
of $2,500 per acre; that the first 200 feet of the parcel
back from Euclid Avenue, if unrestricted in respect of
use, has a value of $150 per front foot, but if limited to
residential uses, and ordinary mercantile business be excluded therefrom, its value is not in excess of $50 per
front foot.
It is specifically averred that the ordinance attempts to
restrict and control the lawful uses of appellee's land so as
to confiscate and destroy a great part of its value; that
it is being enforced in accordance with its terms; that
prospective buyers of land for industrial, commercial and
residential uses in the metropolitan district of Cleveland

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

are deterred from buying any part of this land because of
the existence of the ordinance and the necessity thereby
entailed of conducting burdensome and expensive litigation in order to vindicate the right to use the land for
lawful and legitimate purposes; that the ordinance constitutes a cloud upon the land, reduces and destroys its
value, and has the effect of diverting the normal industrial, commercial and residential development thereof to
other and less favorable locations.
The record goes no farther than to show, as the lower
court found, that the normal, and reasonably to be expected, use and development of that part of appellee's
land adjoining Euclid Avenue is for general trade and
commercial purposes, particularly retail stores and like
establishments, and that the normal, and reasonably to
'be expected, use and development of the residue of the
land is for industrial and trade purposes. Whatever injury
is inflicted by the mere existence and threatened enforcement of the ordinance is due to restrictions in respect of
these and similar uses; to which perhaps should be
added-if not included in the foregoing-restrictions in
respect of apartment houses. Specifically, there is nothing in the record to suggest that any damage results from
the presence in the ordinance of those restrictions relating
to churches, schools, libraries and other public and semipublic buildings. It is neither alleged nor proved that
there is, or may be, a demand for any part of appellee's
land for any of the last named uses; and we cannot
assume the existence of facts which would justify an injunction upon this record in respect of this class of restrictions. For present purposes the provisions of the ordinance in respect of these uses may, therefore, be put aside
as unnecessary to be considered- It is also unnecessary
to consider the effect of the restrictions in respect of U-1
districts, since none of appellee's land falls within that
class.
234Wti -27-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

We proceed, then, to a consideration of those provisions
of the ordinance to which the case as it is made relates,
first disposing of a preliminary matter.
A motion was made in the court below to dismiss the
bill on the ground that, because complainant [appellee]
had made no effort to obtain a building permit or apply
to the zoning board of appeals for relief as it might have
done under the terms of the ordinance, the suit was premature. The motion was properly overruled. The effect
of the allegations of the bill is that the ordinance of its
own force operates greatly to reduce the value of appellee's lands and destroy their marketability for industrial,
commercial and residential uses; and the attack is directed, not against any specific provision or provisions,
but against the ordinance as an entirety. Assuming the
premises, the existence and maintenance of the ordinance,
in effect, constitutes a present invasion of appellee's
property rights and a threat to continue it. Under these
circumstances, the equitable jurisdiction is clear. See Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 215; Pierce v. Society
of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, 535.
It is not necessary to set forth the provisions of the
Ohio Constitution which are thought to be infringed.
The question is the same under both Constitutions,
namely, as stated by appellee: Is the ordinance invalid
in that it violates the constitutional protection "to the
right of property in the appellee by attempted regulations
under the guise of the police power, which are unreasonable and confiscatory?"
Building zone laws are of modern origin. They began
in this country about twenty-five years ago. Until recent
years, urban life was comparatively simple; but with the
great increase and concentration of population, problems
have developed, and constantly are developing, which require, and will continue to require, additional restrictions
in respect of the use and occupation of private lands in

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

urban communities. Regulations, the wisdom, necessity
and validity of which, as applied to existing conditions,
are so apparent that they are now uniformly sustained, a
century ago, or even half a century ago, probably would
have been rejected as arbitrary and oppressive. Such
regulations are sustained, under the complex conditions of
our day, for reasons analogous to those which justify
traffic regulations, which, before the advent of automobiles and rapid transit street railways, would have been
condemned as fatally arbitrary and unreasonable. And
in this there is no inconsistency, for while the meaning of
constitutional guaranties never varies, the scope of their
application must expand or contract to meet the new and
different conditions which are constantly coming within
the field of their operation. In a changing world, it is
impossible that it should be otherwise. But although a
degree of elasticity is thus imparted, not to the meaning,
but to the applicationof constitutional principles, statutes
and ordinances, which, after giving due weight to the new
conditions, are found clearly not to conform to the Constitution, of course, must fall.
The ordinance now under review, and all similar laws
and regulations, must find their justification in some
aspect of the police power, asserted for the public welfare.
The line which in this field separates the legitimate from
the illegitimate assumption of power is not capable of
precise delimitation. It varies with circumstances and
conditions. A regulatory zoning ordinance, which would
be clearly valid as applied to the great cities, might be
clearly invalid as applied to rural communities. In solving doubts, the maxim sic utere tuo ut alienum non
laedas, which lies at the foundation of so much of the
common law of nuisances, ordinarily will furnish a fairly
helpful clew. And the law of nuisances, likewise, may be
consulted, not for the purpose of controlling, but for the
helpful aid of its analogies in the process of ascertaining

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

the scope of, the power. Thus the question whether the
power exists to forbid the erection of a building of a particular kind or for a particular use, like the question whether
a particular thing is a nuisance, is to be determined, not by
an abstract, consideration of the building or of the thing
considered apart, but by considering it in connection with
the circumstances and the locality. Sturgis v. Bridgeman, L. R. 11 Ch. 852, 865. A nuisance may be merely a
right thing in the wrong place,-like a pig in the parlor
instead of the barnyard. If the validity of the legislative
classification for zoning purposes be fairly debatable, the
legislative judgment must be allowed to control. Radice
v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294.
There is no serious difference of opinion in respect of
the validity of laws and regulations fixing the height of
buildings within reasonable limits, the character of materials and methods of construction, and the adjoining area
which must be left open, in order to minimize the danger
of fire or collapse, the evils of over-crowding, and the like,
and excluding from residential sections offensive trades,
industries and structures likely to create nuisances. See
Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 91; Hadacheck v. Los Angeles,
239 U. S. 394; Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Cusack Co. v. City of Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 529-530.
Here, however, the exclusion is in general terms of all
industrial establishments, and it may thereby happen that
not only offensive or dangerous industries will be excluded, but those which are neither offensive nor dangerous will share the same fate. But this is no more than
happens in respect of many practice-forbidding laws which
this Court has upheld although drawn in general terms so
as to include individual cases that may turn out to be
innocuous in themselves. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S.
297, 303; Pierce Oil Corp. v. City of Hope, 248 U. S. 498,
500. The inclusion of a reasonable margin to insure
effective enforcement, will not put upon a law, otherwise

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

valid, the stamp of invalidity. Such laws may also find
their justification in the fact that, in some fields, the bad
fades into the good by such insensible degrees that the
two are not capable of being readily distinguished and
separated in terms of legislation. In the light of these
considerations, we are not prepared to say that the end
in view was not sufficient to justify the general rule of
the ordinance, although some industries of an innocent
character might fall within the proscribed class. It can
not be said that the ordinance in this respect "passes the
bounds of reason and assumes the character of a metely
arbitrary fiat." Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S.
192, 204. Moreover, the restrictive provisions of the
ordinance in this particular may be sustained upon the
principles applicable to the broader exclusion from residential districts of all business and trade structures,
presently to be discussed.
It is said that the Village of Euclid is a mere suburb
of the City of Cleveland; that the, industrial development
of that city has now reached and in some degree extended
into the village and, in the obvious course of things, will
soon absorb the entire area for industrial enterprises; that
the effect of the ordinance is to divert this natural development elsewhere with the consequent loss of increased
values to the owners of the lands within the village borders. But the village, though physically a suburb of
Cleveland, is politically a separate municipality, with
powers of its own and authority to govern itself as it sees
fit within the limits of the organic law of its creation and
the State and Federal Constitutions. Its governing authorities, presumably representing a majority of its inhabitants and voicing their will, have determined, not that
industrial development shall cease at its boundaries, but
that the course of such development shall proceed within
definitely fixed lines. If it be a proper exercise of th6
police power to relegate industrial establishments to local-

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

ities separated from residential sections, it is not easy to
find a sufficient reason for denying the power because
the effect of its exercise is to divert an industrial flow
from the course which it would follow, to the injury of
the residential public if left alone, to another course where
such injury will be obviated. It is not meant by this,
however, to exclude the possibility of cases where the
general public interest would so far outweigh the interest
of the municipality that the municipality would not be
allowed to stand in the way.
We find no difficulty in sustaining restrictions of the
kind thus far reviewed. The serious question in the case
arises over the provisions of the ordinance excluding
from residential districts, apartment houses, business
houses, retail stores and shops, and other like establishments. This question involves the validity of what is
really the crux of the more recent zoning legislation,
namely, the creation and maintenance of residential districts, from which business and trade of every sort, including hotels and apartment houses, are excluded. Upon
that question this Court has not thus far spoken. The
decisions of the state courts are numerous and conflicting;
but those which broadly sustain the power greatly outnumber those which deny altogether or narrowly limit it;
and it is very apparent that there is a constantly increasing tendency in the direction of the broader view. We
shall not attempt to review these decisions at length, but
content ourselves with citing a few as illustrative of all.
As sustaining the broader view, see Opinion of the Justices, 234 Mass. 597, 607; Inspector of Buildings of Lowell v. Stoklosa, 250 Mass. 52; Spector v. Building Inspector of ilton, 250 Mass. 63; Brett v. Building Commissioner of Brookline, 250 Mass. 73; State v. City of New
Orleans, 154 La. 271, 282; Lincoln Trust Co. v. Williams
Bldg. Corp., 229 N. Y. 313; City of Aurora v. Burns, 319
Ill. 84, 93; Deynzer v. City of Evankton, 319 Ill. 226;

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

State ex rel. Beery v. Houghton, 164 Minn. 146; State
ex rel. Carter v. Harper, 182 Wis. 148, 157-161; Ware v.
City of Wichita, 113 Kan. 153; Miller v. Board of Public
Works, 195 Cal. 477, 486-495; City of Providence v.
Stephens, 133 Atl. 614.
For the contrary view, see Goldman v. Crowther, 147
Md. 282; Ignaciunasv. Risley, 98 N. J. L. 712; Spann v.
City of Dallas, 111 Tex. 350.
As evidence of the decided trend toward the broader
view, it is significant that in some instances the state
courts in later decisions have reversed their former decisions holding the other way. For example, compare State
ex rel. Beery v. Houghton, supra, sustaining the power,
with State ex rel. Lachtnman v. Houghton, 134 Minn. 226;
State ex rel. Roerig v. City of Minneapolis, 136 Minn.
479; and Vorlander v. Hokenson, 145 Minn. 484, denying
it, all of which are disapproved in the Houghton case
(p. 151) last decided.
The decisions enumerated in the first group cited above
agree that the exclusion of buildings devoted to business,
trade, etc., from residential districts, bears a rational relation to the health and safety of the community. Some of
the grounds for this conclusion are-promotion of the
health and security from injury of children and others by
separating dwelling houses from territory devoted to trade
and industry; suppression and prevention of disorder; facilitating the extinguishment of fires, and the enforcement
of street traffic regulations and other general welfare ordinances; aiding the health and safety of the community
by excluding from residential areas the confusion and
danger of fire, contagion and disorder which in greater or
less degree attach to the location of stores, shops and factories. Another ground is that the construction and repair of streets may be rendered easier and less expensive
by confining the greater part of the heavy traffic to the
streets where business is carried on.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Illinois, in City of Aurora v.
Burns, supra, pp. 93-95, in sustaining a comprehensive
building zone ordinance dividing the city into eight districts, including exclusive residential districts for one and
two-family dwellings, churches, educational institutions
and schools, said:
"The constantly increasing density of our urban populations, the multiplying forms of industry and the growing complexity of our civilization make it necessary for
the State, either directly or through some public agency
by its sanction, to limit individual activities to a greater
extent than formerly. With the growth and development
of the State the police power necessarily develops, within
reasonable bounds, to meet the changing conditions ...
" . . .The harmless may sometimes be brought within the regulation or prohibition in order to abate or
destroy the harmful. The segregation of industries commercial pursuits and dwellings to particular districts in a
city, when exercised reasonably, may bear a rational
relation to the health, morals, safety and general welfare
of the community. The establishment of such districts
or zones may, among other things, prevent congestion of
population, secure quiet residence districts, expedite local
transportation, and facilitate the suppression of disorder,
the extinguishment of fires and the enforcement of traffic
and sanitary regulations. The danger of fire and the risk
of contagion are often lessened by the exclusion of stores
and factories from areas devoted to residences, and, in
consequence, the safety and health of the community may
be promoted .....
"... The exclusion of places of business from residential districts is not a declaration that such places are
nuisances or that they are to be suppressed as such, but
it is a part of the general plan by which the city's territory is allotted to different uses in order to prevent, or
at least to reduce, the congestion, disorder and dangers

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

which often inhere in unregulated municipal development."
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, in State v. City of
New Orleans, supra, pp. 282-283, said:
"In the first place, the exclusion of business establishments from residence districts might enable the municipal government to give better police protection. Patrolmen's beats are larger, and therefore fewer, in residence
neighborhoods than in business neighborhoods. A place
of business in a residence neighborhood furnishes an excuse for any criminal to go into the neighborhood, where,
otherwise, a stranger would be under the ban of suspicion.
Besides, open shops invite loiterers and idlers to congregate; and the places of such congregations need police protection. In the second place, the zoning of a city into
residence districts and commercial districts is a matter of
economy in street paving. Heavy trucks, hauling freight
to and from places of business in residence districts, require the city to maintain the same costly pavement in
such districts that is required for business districts; wherea4,in the residence districts, where business establishments
are excluded, a cheaper pavement serves the purpose....
"Aside from considerations of economic administration,
in the matter of police and fire protection, street paving,
etc., any business establishment is likely to be a genuine
nuisance in a neighborhood of residences. Places of business are noisy; they are apt to be disturbing at night;
some of them are malodorous; some are unsightly; some
are apt to breed rats, mice, roaches, flies, ants, etc. ...
"If the municipal council deemed any of the reasons
which have been suggested, or any other substantial
reason, a sufficient reason for adopting the ordinance in
question, it is not the province of the courts to take issue
with the council. We have nothing to do with the question of the wisdom or good policy of municipal ordinances.
If they are not satisfying to a majority of the citizens,
their recourse is to the ballot-not the courts."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The matter of zoning has received much attention at
the hands of commissions and experts, and the results of
their investigations have been set forth in comprehensive reports. These reports, which bear every evidence
of painstaking consideration, concur in the view that the
segregation of residential, business, and industrial buildings will make it easier to provide fire apparatus suitable
for the character and intensity of the development in each
section; that it will increase the safety and security of
home life; greatly tend to prevent street accidents; especially to children, by reducing the traffic and resulting
confusion in residential sections; decrease noise and other
conditions which produce or intensify nervous disorders;
preserve a more favorable environment in which to rear
children, etc. With particular reference to apartment
houses, it is pointed out that the development of detached house sections is greatly retarded by the coming
of apartment houses, which has sometimes resulted in
destroying the entire section for private house purposes;
that in such sections very often the apartment house is
a mere parasite, constructed in order to take advantage
of the open spaces and attractive surroundings created by
the residential character of the district. Moreover, the
coming of one apartment house is followed by others,
interfering by their height and bulk with the free circulation of air and monopolizing the rays of the sun which
otherwise would fall upon the smaller homes, and bringing, as their necessary accompaniments, the disturbing
noises incident to increased traffic and business, and the
occupation, by means of moving and parked automobiles,
of larger portions of the streets, thus detracting from their
safety and depriving children of the privilege of quiet and
open spaces for play, enjoyed by those in more favored
localities,-until, finally, the residential character of the
neighborhood and its desirability as a place of detached
residences are utterly destroyed. Under these circum-

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

395

Opinion of the Court.

stances, apartment houses, which in a different environment would be not only entirely unobjectionable but
highly desirable, come very near to being nuisances.
If these reasons, thus summarized, do not demonstrate
the wisdom or sound policy in all respects of those restrictions which we have indicated as pertinent to the inquiry,
at least, the reasons are sufficiently cogent to preclude
us from saying, as it must be said before the ordinance
can be declared unconstitutional, that such provisions
are clearly arbitrary and unreasonable, having no substantial relation to the public health, safety, morals, or
general welfare. Cusack Co. v. City of Chicago, supra,
pp. 530-531; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11,
30-31.
It is true that when, if ever, the provisions set forth
in the ordinance in tedious and minute detail, come to
be concretely applied to particular premises, including
those of the appellee, or to particular conditions, or to
be considered in connection with specific complaints, some
of them, or even many of them, may be found to be clearly
arbitrary and unreasonable. But where the equitable
remedy of injunction is sought, as it is here, not upon the
ground of a present infringement or denial of a specific
right, or of a particular injury in process of actual execution, but upon the broad ground that the mere existence
and threatened enforcement of the ordinance, by materially and adversely affecting values and curtailing the
opportunities of the market, constitute a present and
irreparable injury, the court will not scrutinize its provisions, sentence by sentence, to ascertain by a process
of piecemeal dissection whether there may be, here and
there, provisions of a minor character, or relating to matters of administration, or not shown to contribute to the
injury complained of, which, if attacked separately, might
not withstand the test of constitutionality. In respect
of such provisions, of 1which specific complaint is not

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

made, it cannot be said that the land owner has suffered
or is threatened with an injury which entitles him to
challenge their constitutionality. Turpin v. Lemon, 187
U. S. 51, 60. In Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S.
307, 335-337, this Court dealt with an analogous situation. There an act of the Mississippi legislature, regulating freight and passenger rates on intrastate railroads
and creating a supervisory commission, was attacked as
unconstitutional. The suit was brought to enjoin the
commission from enforcing against the plaintiff railroad
company any of its provisions. In an opinion delivered
by Chief Justice Waite, this Court held that the chief
purpose of the statute was to fix a maximum of charges
and to regulate in some matters of a police nature the
use of railroads in the state. After sustaining the constitutionality of the statute "in its general scope" this
Court said: "Whether in some of its details the statute
may be defective or invalid we do not deem it necessary
to inquire, for this suit is brought to prevent the commissioners from giving it any effect whatever as against
this company." Quoting with approval from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Mississippi it was further
said: "Many questions may arise under it not necessary
to be disposed of now, and we leave them for consideration when presented." And finally: "When the commission has acted and proceedings are had to enforce
what it has done, questions may arise as to the validity
of some of the various provisions which will be worthy
of consideration, but we are unable to say that, as a
whole, the statute is invalid."
The relief sought here is of the same character, namely,
an injunction against the enforcement of any of the restrictions, limitations or conditions of the ordinance. And
the gravamen of the complaint is that a portion of the
land of the appellee cannot be sold for certain enumer-

EUCLID v. AMBLER CO.
365

Opinion of the Court.

ated uses because of the general and broad restraints of
the ordinance. What would be the effect of a restraint
imposed by one or more of the innumerable provisions
of the ordinance, considered apart, upon the value or
marketability of the lands is neither disclosed by the bill
nor by the evidence, and we are afforded no basis, apart
from mere speculation, upon which to rest a conclusion
that it or they would have any appreciable effect upon
those matters. Under these circumstances, therefore, it
is enough for us to determine, as we do, that the ordinance in its general scope and dominant features, so far
as its provisions are here involved, is a valid exercise of
authority, leaving other provisions to be dealt with as
cases arise directly involving them.
And this is in accordance with the traditional policy
of this Court. In the realm of constitutional law, especially, this Court has perceived the embarrassment which
is likely to result from an attempt to formulate rules or
decide questions beyond the necessities of the immediate
issue. It has preferred to follow the method of a gradual
approach to the general by a systematically guarded application and extension of constitutional principles to particular cases as they arise, rather than by out of hand
attempts to establish general rules to which future cases
must be fitted. This process applies with peculiar force
to the solution of questions arising under the due process
clause of the Constitution as applied to the exercise of
the flexible powers of police, with which we are here
concerned.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR, JUSTICE MCREYN-

oLDs and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissent.

