EASTERN TRANSP. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
65S

675

Syllabus.

have divided on some questions of fact, or on the construction of a document.' Under the circumstances appearing,
the suspension of the order pending the appeal was unwarranted. The objection to the decree asserted by the
Government in No. 282 must, therefore, be sustained.
Unless an opinion indicating the grounds of the decision
is delivered, a defeated party may often be unable to
determine whether the case presents a question worthy of
consideration by the appellate court. This is particularly
true, where the case is in equity and the decree is entered
upon a hearing involving complicated facts. For being
in equity, matters of fact as well as of law are reviewable;
and the reviewable issues of law are rarely sharply defined by requests for rulings. The failure to accompany
the decree by an opinion may thus deprive litigants of the
means of exercising a sound judgment on the propriety of
an appeal. And the appellate court, being without knowledge of the grounds of the decision below, is denied an
important aid in the consideration of the case, and will
ordinarily be subjected to much unnecessary labor.
No. 281-Decree affirmed as to matter appealedfrom.
No. 282-Decreereversed as to matter appealedfrom.
EASTERN TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA

No. 57. Argued December 7, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Abandonment within the thirty day period set by the Act of
March 3, 1899, will not be presumed of a wreck left in a navigable
5

So far as the record discloses, the stay included in the final decree
was not a continuation of a temporary restraining order, but a matter
wholly original. Apparently, no restraining order issued prior to the
final decree. The matter is not referred to in any of the briefs.

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

272 U. S.

channel, for the purpose of relieving the owner from the consequence of failure to remove or mark it as that Act requires. P. 686.
2. The leaving of an unmarked wreck in a navigable channel, in a
manner declared by the Act of March 3, 1899, to be unlawful, with
resulting damage to another's vessel, is a maritime tort, which,
when committed by the United States may be civilly remediable
under the Suits in Admiralty Act, although also a crime under the
Act of 1899. P. 687.
:3. Under the Suits in Admiralty Act., March 9, 1920, which in lieu
of earlier permission to proceed in rem against government merchant vessels and cargo, permits a libel in personam against the
United States, with leave to the libelant to proceed in accordance
with the principles of libels in rem whenever such a libel might have
been maintained if the merchant vessel or cargo had been privately
owned and possessed, and which provides also that election so to
proceed "shall not preclude the libelant in any proper case from
seeking relief in personam in the same suit," and that the United
States shall be entitled to the benefit of all exemptions and limitations of liability accorded by law to the owners, charterers, operators, or agents of vessels-a libel in personam may be maintained
against the United States to recover for the loss of a vessel and
cargo resulting from the failure of the United States to remove or
mark the wreck of a vessel, which, while owned and used by it is a
merchant vessel, was sunk in a navigable channel. P. 692.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed, for lack of jurisdiction, an admiralty suit, in
personam, brought by the appellant against the United
States to recover for a ship and cargo, lost by collision
with the sunken and unmarked wreck of what had been a
vessel owned and used by the United States solely as a
merchant vessel. The Seaboard Transportation Cornl any, originally a co-defendant, was dismissed by consent
of the other parties.
Messrs. John M. Woolsey and Edward R. Baird,Jr., for
appellant.
By the Suits in Admiralty Act the United States consented to be sued in any proceeding in admiralty in which
such a proceeding could have been maintained against a

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

677

Argument for Appellant.

private shipowner. Through the Shipping Act of 1916 and
Merchant Marine Act, 1920, the liabilities of governmentowned merchant vessels were the same as those of privately owned merchant vessels. The Lake Monroe, 250
U. S. 246. After these Acts had been in operation for
some time it was realized that it might be a serious inconvenience to the Government to have its vessels delayed by
arrests and subject to the requirement that they give
bonds as a condition of their release. This situation resulted in the passage of The Suits in Admiralty Act of
March 9, 1920, which made government-owned vessels,
when operated as merchant vessels or tugs, responsible on
the same basis as if they were being operated by a private
owner. The Act abolished the right to arrest Government
vessels by proceedings in rem and allowed "a proceeding
in admiralty" to be maintained against the United States
by libel in personam, with the proviso that if the libelant
wished so to elect it might proceed against the Government on the same principle as if the libel had been a libel
in rem, and the ship had been arrested. But such election
was not to preclude the libelant in any proper case from
seeking relief ii person am in the same suit.
It is clear from the language used that what was hplicit in the Shipping Act of 1916 and the Merchant
Marine Act of 1920, as to the legal status of the Government and of Government-owned or operated vessels whilst
employed as merchant vessels was made explicit by the
Suits in Admiralty Act; that under the Act "proceedings
in Admiralty " were to be maintainable against the United
States when its liability arose out of the operation of one
of its vessels as a merchant vessel; and that by such proceedings all liabilities imposed by law on private persons
similarly engaged could be claimed against the United
States with correlative rights in the United States to avail
itself of all defenses and limitations of liability available
under admiralty law and practice to a private owner.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

272 U. S.

There is not any limitation on the phrase "proceeding
in admiralty." It is not limited to a proceeding in admiralty in rem, which would mean a case where a maritime lien would have been created against the vessel in
question if she were held responsible for the tort or breach
of contract which might be involved in the case. Of
course, when the proceeding could only be maintained
in rem if the vessel were privately owned, and the owner
of the vessel would not be liable in personam, then you
have a situation such as existed in the case of Blamberg
Bros. v. United States, 260 U. S. 452. What was really
decided in the Blamberg case was, that the Suits in Admiralty Act did not authorize a suit in personam against
the United States as a substitute for a libel in reni
against a vessel, (a) when the vessel was not available in
a port of the United States and subject to the process of
cur courts, because in such a case the vessel of a private
owner could not have been arrested; and (b) when the
private owner would not have been liable to personal suit.
The Suits in Admiralty Act constituted, therefore, a
consent on the part of the United States to be sued in
any admiralty proceeding in which a private owner would
be liable provided the vessel through which the liability
arose was operated as a merchant vessel. This is a recognition of the feeling frequently expressed that when
the Government goes into business it should assume the
same liabilities as others. The Charkieh, L. R. 4 A. & E.
59; Walton v. United States, 24 Ct. Cls. 372; St. Louis v.
United States, 33 Ct. Cls. 251. There have been a number of decisions in the lower courts which sustain the
libelant's position that an in personam action will lie
against the United States under the Suits in Admiralty
Act even if an in rem action, which must be founded on
a maritime lien, would not be maintainable if the vessel
in question were privately owned. Middleton & Co. v.
United States, 273 Fed. 199; The Elmac, 285 Fed. 665;

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

679

Argument for the United States.

Agros Corp. v. United States, 8 Fed. (2d) 84; The Isoiiomia, 285 Fed. 516; Stevedoring Co. v. United States,
286 Fed. 444; The Anna E. Morse, 287 Fed. 364; Thompson v. United States, 4 Fed. (2d) 412; The Faraby, 1923
A. l. C. 468; The Tug Nonpareil, 1924 A. M. C. 312;
The Castlewood, 298 Fed. 184, 5 Fed. (2d) 1013; The
Brush, 1926 A. M. C. 91; Benedict, Admiralty, 5th ed.,
.1924.
Proceedings in admiralty may be based on maritime
torts or on maritime contracts. If the Suits in Achniralty
Act had intended to limit the Government's liability to
" cases not sounding in tort," as was done in the Tucker
Act, appropriate language would have been employed. An
instance where the United States has been held liable for
a maritime tort under the Suits in Admiralty Act is The
Tug Nonpareil, 1924 A. M. C. 312.
A private owner would have been liable to the libelant
for the damages caused by his leaving the wreck of The
Snug Harbor unbuoyed and unlighted in a frequented
fairway. At common law there was and is a liability on
the part of a wreck sunk in navigable channels, and of
its owner, for damage caused by the wreck to other vessels
unless he shall have properly marked it or abandoned it.
This common law liability has been fixed and emphasized by the statute of larch 3, 1899, and the decisions
thereunder. There is no presumption of abandonment.
The wreck of The Snug Harborlay in a frequented fairway within waters over which both the District Courts
for the Southern and the Eastern Districts of New York
have concurrent jurisdiction.
Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant
Attorney General Letts, and Mr. H. H. Rumble, Attorney
in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the
United States.

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for the United States.

272 U. S.

Under the Act a vessel must have the status of a merchant vessel at the time the loss occurs. The Snug Harbor did not have such status at the time the Winstead
struck her wreck, and she had become a total loss nine
months before the libel was filed. We admit that, as
between private parties, relief is properly had by libel in
personam for failure to mark and buoy a wreck in navigable inland waters.
Four constructions of the Suits in Admiralty Act may
be stated:
First, the Act substitutes a remedy in personam for Ihe
enforcement of the same liability which in the case of
privately-owned vessels would be enforced by a proceeding in rem. The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S. 246; Blambcrg
Bros. v. United States, 260 U. S. 452; Shewan & Sons v.
United States, 266 U. S, 108.
Second, the Act provides a remedy both upon principles
cf in personam liability and of in rem liability where the
vessel involved at the time the cause of action arose was
employed as a merchant vessel. Certain lower courts have
so construed the Act. They reason that the language of
§ 2-2"a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained "'should have this liberal construction. Citing many cases,
and discussing Agros Corp. v. United States, 8 Fed. (2d)
84, and The Isonomia, 285 Fed. 516. These decisions suggest that the opinions of this Court in Blarnbergv. United
States, 260 U. S. 452; Shewan, & Sons v. United States,
266 U. S. 108; and Nahmeh v. United States, 267 U. S.
122, must be limited to the questions presented. Each of
tie suits is based on in rem liability. The question in the
first was whether an in rem suit would lie under the Act
when the vessel was not within the United States; in the
second, when the vessel was not "actually engaged in
mercantile trade "; and in the third, when the vessel was
not within the district in suit. The proviso of § 2, "that
such vessel is employed as a merchant vessel," if the
construction now suggested be sound, requires the cause
of action, if based upon rights in personam, to be related

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

681

Opinion of the Court.

to the ownership, possession, or operation of a merchant
vessel. At the time of the loss of the Winstead, the Snug
Harbor had been sunk and totally lost and her identity
as a vessel destroyed.
A third construction is that which the appellant here
urges: That the Act permits suit against the Government
on the admiralty side of the court, both in personam
and in rein, in the same full measure that such actions
are maintainable as between private parties. We deny
such construction. The proviso-" provided that such
vessel is employed as merchant vessel "-in plain terms,
requires that the cause of action in personam be related
to or grow out of the operation of government vessels
employed as merchant vessels.
Fourth Construction. It has been suggested that the
right to any relief under the Act is conditioned upon the
vessel concerned having the status of a merchant vessel
at the time the libel is filed and such vessel then being
within the United States or its possessions. This libel
was filed nine months after the Snug Harbor was lost.
Upon such construction, relief under the Act has been
denied. Grace & Co. v. United States, 8 Fed. (2d) 80;
Villigas v. United States, 8 Fed. (2d) 300. It is to be
observed it was not to enforce any liability of the wreck
that the suit was brought. The gravamen of the complaint is the failure of the owner to mark the position
of the wreck. No suit in rem against the wreck would
have been possible. For such proceeding to be maintained, the court of admiralty must have the custody of
the res-something of substance and value. In this case
there was no res. In any view, the Snug Harbor then
did not have the status of a merchant vessel.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE TArT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

The Eastern Transportation Company filed a libel in
admiralty in personam against the United States in the

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, under
the Suits in Admiralty Act of 1920, and against the Seaboard Transportation Company, as joint defendants. It
averred that the libelant, a corporation of the State of
Maryland, was the owner of the barge Winstead and the
bailee of the cargo of the barge; that the Seaboard Transportation Company owned the tug Covington and the
barge Pottsville; that on August 15, 1920, the steamship
Snug Harbor, owned and used by the United States solely
as a merchant vessel, while on a voyage from Baltimore,
Maryland, to Portland, Maine, came into collision with
the barge Pottsville in tow of the tug Covington, was
sunk and became a total loss; that the wreck of the Snug
Harbor lodged about 41/4 miles from Montauk Point in a
frequented channel way within the harbors and inland
waters of the United States; that it was not marked
with a buoy or beacon by day or a lighted lantern by
night; and was not removed by the United States or the
Seaboard Transportation Company, and that no notice
had been given or published advising mariners navigating the neighboring waters of the presence of the wreck;
that the barge Winstead loaded with a full cargo of coal,
on the 14th day of September, 1920, came into contact
with the wreck and as a result was sunk, and it and its
cargo bbecame a total loss to the damage of the libelant
in the sum of $105,000; that the collision between the
Snug Harbor and the Pottsville was due to the negligence
of both; that the collision of the Winstead with the
wreck was without negligence of those engaged in her
navigatioi, but was due to the unlawful presence of
the wreck for which the respondents were jointly and
severally responsible.
The United States District Attorney appeared specially
for the Government, for the purpose of suggesting to the
Court, that it was without jurisdiction so far as the United
States was concerned; that the cause of action stated

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
(175

683

Opinion of the Court.

related to a failure on the part of the officers and agents
of the United States to perform a purely governmental
function, or to the alleged negligence of such officers and
agents in the performance of such a function, and created
no liability on the part of the United States for which it
was suable; that the cause of action in no way concerned
a vessel employed as a merchant vessel; that the Suits
in Admiralty Act was to prevent the arrest and detention
of vessels owned or possessed by the United States then
employed as merchant vessels, and it was only to prevent
such arrest and detention and consequent interference
with the operation of such vessels that the United States
consented by the Act to be sued in respect to such vessels,
and that the United States had never consented by the
Act or otherwise to be sued in respect to a wreck or any
object incapable of being employed as a merchant vessel;
that the suit in perscnam provided for by the Act, was
intended by Congress to be only a substitute for a suit
in rem against such vessel itself, and by the terms of the
Act could be brought and maintained only in cases where
if such vessel were privately owned a suit in rem could
be maintained against her at the time of the commencement of such action, and not then unless such vessel was
employed as a merchant vessel at that time; that § 15
of the Act of March 3, 1899, making it the duty of the
owner of any vessel or craft wrecked and sunk in a navigable channel immediately to mark it with a buoy or
beacon by day and a lighted lantern at night, had no
application to the United States of America, imposed no
duty upon it, and created no liability for which it was
suable in the District Court below or elsewhere.
This issue on jurisdiction was presented by a motion
to dismiss, which was denied by the District Judge, on
the ground that the question should be determined after
the facts were elicited in the trial of the case. Subsequently the Judge reheard the suggestion of want of

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

jurisdiction and reached the conclusion on the facts
alleged that the court was without jurisdiction and dismissed the libel.
The record shows that by consent of the other parties
the Seaboard Transportation Company has been dismissed
for reasons appearing to the court and to counsel. It
further appears that all questions of mere venue are
waived.
This appeal, upon a certificate of the District Judge
that the dismissal had been solely for lack of jurisdiction,
was brought directly to this Court on March 20, 1925,
under § 238 of the Judicial Code, as it was before it was
amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, in accordance
with § 14 of that Act, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936.
The case before us turns on the proper construction of
the Suits in Admiralty Act. It was approved March 9,
1920, ch. 95, 41 Stat. 525. Its first section provides that
no vessel owned by the United States or by any corporation in which the United States or its representatives
own the entire outstanding capital stock shall thereafter
"in view of the provision herein made for libel in
personambe subject to arrest or seizure by judicial process
in the United States or its possessions."
By § 2 in cases where if such vessel were privately
owned or operated, or if such cargo were privately owned
and possessed, a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained at the time of the commencement of the action, a
libel in personam may be brought against the United
States if the vessel is employed as a merchant vessel. The
suit is to be in a District Court of the United States for
the district in which the parties suing reside, or at their
principal place of business or in which the vessel or cargo
charged with liability is found. The libelant is forthwith
to serve a copy of his libel on the United States Attorney
for such district and mail a copy thereof to the Attorney
General, and make a sworn return of such service and

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

685

Opinion of the Court.

mailing, to constitute valid service on the United States
and the corporation.
The third section provides that the suits shall proceed
and be heard according to principles of law and to the
rules of practice obtaining in like cases between private
parties. A decree against the United States or such corporation may include costs of suit, and when the decree
is for a money judgment, it shall include interest at the
rate of 4 per cent. per annum until satisfied, or at any
higher rate which shall be stipulated in any contract
upon which such decree shall be based. Interest is to
run as ordered by the court. The decrees are subject
to appeal and revision as now provided in other cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Then follows
this language:
"If the libelant so elects in his libel the suit may
proceed in accordance with the principles of libels in rem
wherever it shall appear that had the vessel or cargo been
privately owned and possessed, a libel in rem might have
been maintained. Election so to proceed shall not preclude the libelant in any proper case from seeking relief
in pcrsonam in the same suit,."
The United States is exempted from giving any bond,
but it assumes liability to satisfy any decree in a cause
in which a vessel of the United States has been arrested
or in which a vessel previously possessed, owned or operated by the United States has been arrested, in which the
United States is interested and of which it desires release
as suggested by the Attorney General.
Section 6 directs that the United States shall be entitled to the benefits of all exemptions and of all limitat ions of liability accorded by law to the owners, charterers,
.operators or agents of vessels.
Section 7 provides that if any vessel or cargo of the
United States is seized by process of a court of any
country other than the United States, the Secretary of

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

State of the United States may, in his discretion, upon the
request of the Attorney General, direct the proper United
States consul to claim immunity from such suit and
seizure and to execute a bond on behalf of the United
States as the court may require for the release of the
vessel or cargo.
Section 8 appropriates the sums needed to meet the
final judgments against the United States authorized by
the other sections of the Act.
In view of the fact that the wreck which did the damage
was a total loss, we assume that there is no res upon which
a recovery in rem could be based, and therefore that a
suit as between private persons, if maintainable, must
rest on the personal liability of the owner of the wreck
and must be in principle in personam as distinguished
from an action in rem against the vessel wrecked. Hence
it is that the libelant must establish that, under the Suits
in Admiralty Act, it was intended to give an action
against the United States both in cases where the owner
of the vessel would be personally liable, and in those
where only the vessel would be liable.
The sovereignty of the United States raises a presumption against its suability, unless it is clearly shown; nor
should a court enlarge its liability to suit beyond what
the language requires. It was this view which led us
in Blamberg Bros. v. United States, 260 U. S. 452, to
hold that, as the substitution by the Suits in Admiralty
Act was merely to furnish a balancing consideration for
the immunity of the United States from seizure of its
vessels employed as merchant vessels previously permitted, the Act did not apply in cases in which the seizure
of a merchant vessel of the United States could not be
prevented by the Act, in a foreign port and court, where
the immunity declared by Congress could not be given
effect.
In the case at bar, the liability charged in this libel
arose from occurrences under the Act of March 3, 1899,

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

687

Opinion of the Court.

c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121, 1152, § 15. The Act is one making
appropriations for the construction, repair, and preservation of certain public works and rivers and harbors, and
contains regulations for the establishment of harbor lines
and for the removal of obstructions in navigable waters of
the United States.
Its § 15 provides, among other things, that whenever a
vessel, raft, or other craft is wrecked and sunk in a
navigable channel, it shall be the duty of the owner of
such sunken craft immediately to mark it with a buoy or
beacon during the day and a lighted lantern at night and
to maintain such marks until the sunken craft is removed
or abandoned; that the neglect or failure of the said owner
so to do shall be unlawful; that it shall be the duty of
the owner of such sunken craft to commence the immediate removal of the same and prosecute such removal
diligently, and failure to do so shall be construed as an
abandonment of such craft and subject the same to
removal by the United States as thereinafter provided.
Section 16 provides for penalties of fine or imprisonment for the violation of § 15 as for a misdemeanor, or by
both, and provides that the wrecked vessel may be proceeded against summarily by way of libel in any district
court in the United States having jurisdiction.
Section 19 provides for a period of 30 days before
abandonment is complete unless legally established in less
time. Under the averments of the libel, there is no presumption of abandonment, certainly not within the 30
days, merely to relieve the owner of the wreck of his
affirmative duty during that time to protect commerce
against its danger. People's Coal Co. v. Second Pool Coal
Co., 181 Fed. 609, affirmed 188 Fed. 892. We do not think
that abandonment is a factor in this case.
It is first objected to the recovery here that it was not
intended by the Suits in Admiralty Act to subject the
United States itself to prosecution for a crime which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

denounces in its legislation. We need not be troubled by
this objection, because there is no attempt here to prosecute the United States or any of its agents criminally.
The declaration that the leaving of a wreck in a navigable
channel in a place dangerous to passing steamers without
notice of the danger and without immediate removal is
unlawful, makes such omission a maritime tort which, if
merchant vessels of the United States are to respond in
tort, may be recovered for in its admiralty courts against
the United States without anomaly. The Fahy, 153 Fed.
866; The Macy, 170 Fed. 930; People's Coal Company,
181 Fed. 609, 188 Fed. 892. Under the Tucker Act and
the general jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, of course,
the United States is made liable only upon a contract
express or implied, and not for a tort; but its liability provided for in the Suits in Admiralty Act can not be limited
to contracts any more than the liability of its merchant
vessels under the Shipping Act of 1916 could be so limited.
The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S. 246.
By the Shipping Act of 1916, approved December 7,
1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 729, the United States Shipping
Board was established for the purpose of encouraging,
developing and creating a naval auxiliary and naval reserve and a merchant marine to meet the requirements
of the commerce of the United States, and authority was
given to that Board to purchase, lease or charter vessels
suitable as far as the commercial requirements of trade of
the United States might permit. By § 9, any such vessel
while employed solely as a merchant vessel was made
subject to all laws, regulations and liabilities governing
merchant vessels, when the United States was interested
therein as owner in whole or in part, or otherwise. It was
under this provision that vessels belonging to the United
States engaged as merchant vessels were arrested and
Leld in an action in rem. In The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S.
246, we decided that such a merchant vessel was subject

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

689

Opinion of the Court.

to judicial process in admiralty for the consequences of
a collision. It would seem clearly to follow that, under
the Act of 1916, if a wreck of a merchant vessel of the
United States in a navigable channel, not properly protected, caused damage to a vessel navigating the channel,
the owner of the latter would have a remedy in rem
against the wreck. Had the Suits in Admiralty Act not
been passed and had the wreck become a total loss, there
is nothing in the previous legislation, in the Act of 1916,
or elsewhere, by which the Government could be made
generally liable like a private owner for damages for
failure to protect vessels against the wreck under the Act
of 1899.
Did the Suits in Admiralty Act intend to extend and
expand the in rem liability so as to make the United
States so generally liable?
As we have already intimated, the main purpose of
the Act, of relieving United States merchant vessels from
seizure and arrest, would lead us to limit the operation of
the Act to such a remedy as would be commensurate only
with the immunity from seizure extended by the Act to
United States merchant vessels, and to a proceeding
which, while in form in personam, would be attended
only with the incidents of a proceeding in rem as if
against a vessel libeled, arrested, and released under a
stipulation or bond by the United States to pay all damages. In spite of the purpose of the Act to create a substitute for a suit in rem, however, we are forced to the
view by the language used in § 3 and 6 that it must be
construed to have a wider effect than that which its § 1
would lead us to expect. The second section declares
that in cases of immunity from arrest provided for in the
first section, where, if the vessel or cargo had been privately owned or possessed, a proceeding in admiralty
could be maintained at the commencement of the action,
a libel in personam may be brought against the United
2346'-

*-27-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

States. The expression "a proceeding in admiralty" is
broad enough to cover both a libel in personam and a
libel in rem; but if that were all we could properly limit
its scope, purpose and incidents to that of a suit in rem
merely transmuted into the form of an action in personam. The third section, however, provides that if the
libelant so elects in his libel, the suit may proceed in
accordance with the principles of libels in rem, wherever
it shall appear that had the vessel or cargo been privately
owned or possessed, a libel in rem might have been maintained, but it then proceeds to say "But election so to
proceed shall not preclude the libelant in any proper
case from seeking relief in personam in the same suit."
It is impossible to reconcile this language with the idea
that the action provided for is one which in form only is
in personam against the United States, but which in fact
is one having the limitations, operation and result of a
suit in rem. The words certainly assume that there may
be proper cases under the Act in which there is to be a
remedy really in personam against the United States, and
also one in substance in rem against its vessels for which
its own personal liability is substituted. We have heard
no suggestion or hypothesis which satisfies the provision
for this double remedy thus expressly given, which would
not include the general in personam liability of the United
States as the owner of an offending vessel, like that of a
private owner.
This view is further borne out by the sixth section,
which provides that the United States shall be entitled to
the benefit of all exemptions and of all limitations of
liability accorded by law to the owners, charterers, operators or agents of vessels. The necessary implication
is that if, under the larter Act (c. 105, 27 Stat. 445),
or the Limitation of Liability Act, §§ 4282-4287, R. S.,
the United States as owner of a merchant vessel should
not be able to show performance of the conditions upon

EASTERN TRANSP. CO v. UNITED STATES.
675

691

Opinion of the Court.

which such statutory limitations of liability are granted,
it must assume the personal liability for negligence in
such cases exactly as a private owner would.
This construction of §9 2, 3 and 6 is sustained by the
weight of authority in the lower courts. Agros Corporation v. United States, 8 Fed. (2d), 84; The Anna E.
Morse, 287 Fed. 364; Bashinsky Cotton, Co. v. United
States, 8 Fed. (2d), 79; Markle v. United States, 8 Fed.
(2d) 87; Cross v. United States, 8 Fed. (2d) 86; Benedict
on Admiralty, 5th ed. vol. 1, § 194.
Do Blamberg v. United States, 260 U. S. 452; Shewan
& Sons v. United States, 266 U. S. 108; and Nahmeh v.
United States, 267 U. S. 122, militate against this view?
In those cases the Court emphasized the main purpose in
the Act to be to rid the United States of the inconvenience, to which it and its subordinate Shipping Corporations were subjected by having their vessels in the merchant trade arrested and seized under the Shipping Act
of 1916, by substituting therefor a suit in personam
against the United States with consequent appropriations
to meet the liability thus imposed. We did not then
have before us the question whether the statute substituted a remedy limited to what an action in rem would
be with a statutory stipulation and bond of the United
States to take the place of the vessel, or whether it created a broader personal obligation of the United States,
both personal and in rem, like that of the private owner
of a vessel. The question in the Blamberg case was
whether the Act applied at all in cases in which there
could be no immunity granted by Congress to vessels of
the United States. The Shewan case only involved the
question whether that which had been a merchant vessel
of the United States continued to be such and satisfied
the Act, if it were laid up and had not been changed to
be a public vessel of the United States. The Nahmeh
case was one of venue as to the district courts in which

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

suits could be brought under the Act, that is, whether
only one of three courts described in the Act, or any one
of the three could be used in each instance. Neither case
involved the important question now before us; and while
the emphasis placed in those cases upon the main purpose
of the Act, as that of the mere substitution of a remedy
for a proceeding in rem against merchant vessels of the
United States, and its effect on its interpretation, may
have been too marked, there is nothing in their decision
inconsistent with the conclusion which we have here
reached.
It is finally insisted for the Government that recovery
against the Government under the Suits in Admiralty
Act, whether in personam or in rem, must be on a
cause of action related to or growing out of the operation
of Government vessels employed as merchant vessels and
that, as the collision with the wreck was not with a
vessel employed as a mercjaant vessel, the Act does not
apply. We think this reasoning to be too fine. What
the statute means by saying "employed as a merchant
vessel," is that the vessel shall belong to that class as
distinguished from one employed in the governmental
service-not necessarily that it shall be actively thus
employed at the time of the collision. Shewan & Sons
v. United States, supra. The cause of action grows out
of the responsibility of the Government for a merchant
vessel which in the course of its employment had become
a danger to navigation and which imposed a duty to
avoid that danger. A wreck which is a total loss will
not furnish basis for an action in rem, as we have assumed; but if a proceeding in admiralty permitted by
the Act embraces the principles both of suits in personam and suits in rem, it is a most natural construction
of the Act dealing with merchant vessels employed by the
United States, to include as a suit in personam it permits,
one for a tort caused by the negligence of the United

POSTUM CEREAL CO. v. CALIF. FIG NUT CO.
675

693

Argument for Appellant.

States in dealing with a wreck of its merchant vessel
and its failure to comply with its own navigation laws
therewith.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
POSTUM CEREAL COMPANY v. CALIFORNIA FIG
NUT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 22.

Submitted November 9, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. A proceeding in the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
under § 9 of the Trade Mark Act of 1905, to review a decision of
the Commissioner of Patents refusing to cancel the registration of a
trade mark, is an administrative matter, and not a "case" within
the meaning of Art. III of the Constitution. P. 698.
2. This Court, therefore, has no constitutional power to review the
decision of the Court of Appeals in such a proceeding-not even
when that court dismisses the appeal from the Commissioner for
want of jurisdiction under the Trade Mark Act. P. 699.
Appeal from 53 App. D. C. 320, 290 Fed. 340, dismissed.
APPEAL from a decision of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia in a proceeding to review a decision
of the Commissioner of Patents refusing to cancel the
registration of a trade mark. The decision of the court
below dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction under
the Trade Mark Act. An application to this Court for
a writ of certiorari was denied, 266 U. S. 609.

Messrs. Edward S. Rogers, Fra*nk F. Reed, and William
J. Hughes for appellant, submitted. Messrs. John S. Prescott and Allen Mf. Reed were also on the brief.
The decree of the Court of Appeals dismissing the appeal for want of jurisdiction is a final decree capable of
review by this Court on appeal. Baldwin Co. v. Robert-

