DYSART v. UNITED STATES.
652

Syllabus.

in bar since the facts alleged barred any later proceeding
by the United States, according to the law laid down
by the trial Court, except upon a condition that was held
by this Court to be improperly imposed. Perhaps the
decision went to the extreme point, but it was put on
the contents of the plea seen in the light of the law
applied, not on the fact that the statute of limitations
had run. It was said that the United States had the
right to present and the grand jury had the right to
entertain the charges without leave of court and that the
necessary effect of this judgment "was to bar the absolute right of the United States to prosecute by subjecting the exercise of that right, not only as to this indictment but as to all subsequent ones for the same offenses,
to a limitation resulting from the exercise of the judicial
power upon which the judgment was based." 251 U. S.
912. It was added that the same was true as to the
authority of the district attorney and the powers of the
grand jury "since the exercise in both cases of lawful
authority was barred by the application of unauthorized
judicial discretion." We are of opinion that this decision
interposes no obstacle to what seems to us the natural
interpretation of the law.
Writ of error dismissed.
DYSART v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 102. Submitted November 23, 1926.--Decided December 13, 1926.
Letters advertising a home for the care and protection of pregnant

unmarried women and their infants are not "obscene, lewd or
lascivious," within ยง 211, Crim. Code, even when mailed, without
excuse, to refined women. Swearingen v. United States, 161 U. S.

446. P. 656.
4 F. (2d) 765, reversed.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI

272 U. S.

(268 U. S. 687) to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals affirming a conviction for mailing an
obscene, lewd and lascivious card and letter.
Mr. J. W. Marrow for the petitioner, submitted.
Solicitor General Mitchell for the United States, submitted the case, without being able to support the decision
below. Assistant Attorney General Luhring and Mr.
Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE MoREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals-4 Fed. (2d) 765-affirmed a judgment of conviction under an indictment
which charged that petitioner deposited in the Post Office
at El Paso, Texas, for conveyance through the mails, an
obscene, lewd and lascivious printed card and letter, in
violation of Section 211, Criminal Code. There were
eleven counts, identical in all respects except that each
named a different addressee, generally an unmarried
woman.
Copies of the card and letter were set out in haec verba.
They were intended to advertise The Queen Ann Private
Home for unmarried women during pregnancy and confinement, who prefer to be away from home during such
time in order "to preserve individual character or family
reputation." The letter, ostensibly intended for a doctor,
states: The home is a private place for the care and
protection of a few unfortunate women "until the time
when they may return to their homes and friends, free
from the burden of their mistake, to become useful members of society." "We find homes for infants by adoption when desired, or provide board for them at reasonable rates." Only persons recommended by reputable
physicians are accepted. And it invites visits by
physicians.

DYSART v. UNITED STATES.
655

Opinion of the Court.

Section 211, Criminal Code, was taken from Section
3893, Revised Statutes. The pertinent portions follow:
"Every obscene, lewd or lascivious, and every filthy book,
pamphlet, picture, paper, letter, writing, print or other
publication of an indecent character . . . is hereby declared to be nonmailable matter . .
Whoever shall
knowingly deposit or cause to be deposited for mailing
or delivery anything declared by this section to be nonmailable . . . shall be fined not more than five thousand
dollars, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both."
The Solicitor General, with his usual commendable
candor, after calling attention to the facts disclosed by
the record and relevant opinions, adds: "It is not so
easy to believe that circulars of this kind could to any
substantial degree undermine morals or induce delinquency. To some such a result would seem altogether
fanciful."
In Swearingen v. United States, 161 U. S. 446, 450,
where the indictment charged that the plaintiff in error
mailed a newspaper containing an "obscene, lewd and
lascivious article," contrary to Section 3893, Revised
Statutes, this court said: "The offense aimed at, in that
portion of the statute we are now considering, was the
use of the mails to circulate or deliver matter to corrupt
the morals of the people. The words 'obscene," lewd,' and
'lascivious,' as used in the statute, signify that form of
immorality which has relation to sexual impurity, and
have the same meaning as is given them at common law
in prosecutions for obscene libel. As the statute is highly
penal, it should not be held to embrace language unless
it is fairly within its letter and spirit. Referring to this
newspaper article, as found in the record, it is undeniable
that its language is exceedingly coarse and vulgar, and,
as applied to an individual person, plainly libelous. But
we cannot perceive in it anything of a lewd, lascivious
and obscene tendency, calculated to corrupt and debauch
'134GS -L27

----

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

the mind and morals of those into whose hands it might
fall."
Notwithstanding the inexcusable action of petitioner in
sending these advertisements to refined women, it is not
possible for us to conclude that the indictment charges
an offense within the meaning of the statute as construed
by the opinion just cited. The motion to quash should
have been sustained by the trial court.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court, Western District of
Texas, for further proceedings in harmony with this
opinion.
Reversed.
VIRGINIAN

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v. UNITED

STATES ET AL.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. VIRGINIAN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

Nos. 281, 282. Argued October 29, 1926.-Decided December 13,
1926.
1. Whether a rate is unjustly discriminatory is a question on which
the finding of the Interstate Commerce Commission, supported by
substantial evidence, is conclusive, unless there was some irregularity in the proceeding or some error in the application of rules of
law. P. 663.
2. The fact that the purpose of a carrier in making a trackage arrangement with another is to increase its own business, is not a
legal excuse for unjust discrimination in through rates, resulting
from the arrangement, among shippers on the carrier's line. P. 663.
3. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission for abatement
of unjust discrimination among shippers on a carrier's line, resulting from a trackage arrangement, may be directed to that carrier
as well as to the other with which the arrangement exists, although
the latter alone may be responsible for the rates granted the
favored shippers. P. 665.

