PALMETTO INS. CO. v. CONN.
Syllabus.

52

assemblies for
tection of the
the arbitrary
believed to be

PALMETTO

the protection of their liberties. And proindividual, even if he be an official, from
or capricious exercise of power was then
an essential of free government.

FIRE

INSURANCE
CONN.

COMPANY

v.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

(0HRYSLER SALES CORPORATION v. SPENCER,
INSURANCE COMMISSIONER.
UTTERBACK-GLEASON COMPANY v. SPENCER,
INSURANCE COMMISSIONER.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAINE.

CLARK MOTOR COMPANY v. JOHNSON, COMMISSIONER OF INSURANCE.
CHRYSLER SALES CORPORATION v. JOHNSON,
COMMISSIONER OF INSURANCE.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Nos. 255, 273, 274, 286, 287. Argued October 11, 1926.-Decided
October 25, 1926.
1. By the terms of a "blanket" contract entered into in Michigan
between a South Carolina insurance company and a Michigan
sales company, engaged in marketing all the automobiles of a
particular make, the insurance company insured future purchasers
of the cars against fire and theft; the insurance was to become

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Palmetto Ins. Co.

272 U. S.

automatically effective whenever anyone bought a car and took
delivery or a bill of sale, without regard to the wish of the purchaser; the sales company was to make monthly reports to the
insurance company of all cars for which insurance was thus provided and pay premiums accordingly, in Michigan; and the insurance company was to send certificates of insurance to the respective purchasers.
Held, that where such insurance became effective through sales
of cars in other States, though sold by distributors and retail
dealers who owned them and were not agents of the sales company,
laws of those States regulating and taxing insurance were constitutionally applicable to such local transactions, and that the fact
that the cost of the insurance was taken up in the price of the
cars so sold did not prevent the insurance from being reached.
P. 304.
2. The courts of the United States should not go beyond necessity to
instruct officials of a State as to the meaning of a state law. P. 305.
9 F. (2d) 202; Id. 666; Id. 674--affirmed.
THE first of these cases is an appeal from an order of

the District Court refusing an interlocutory injunction,
in a suit by the Palmetto Fire Ins. Co., a South Carolina
corporation, to restrain Conn, the Superintendent of
Insurance of Ohio, from revoking the plaintiff's license
to do business in Ohio. The other four cases are appeals
from like orders, in suits brought in Maine and Wisconsin,
by dealers in automobiles, to enjoin the insurance commissioners of those States from sending out letters, etc..
accusing the plaintiffs of violating the local insurance
laws, and announcing publicly that insurance on the cars
they sold was void; and to enjoin them from bringing
criminal prosecutions, or actions for penalties, or otherwise interfering with the sale of the cars in those two
States, respectively. Johnson, Commissioner of Insurance, appellee in Nos. 286 and 287, was substituted in
this Court for Smith, his predecessor in office.
Mr. Hartwell Cabell, with whom Messrs. Win. 0. Henderson, Karl E. Burr, Milton B. Ignatius, and James M.
Lown, were on the brief, for appellant in No. 255.

PALMETTO INS. CO. v. CONN.
295

Argument for Palmetto Ins. Co.

The Court had jurisdiction to grant relief. St. Louis
R. Co. v. Cross, 171 Fed. 480; Harrison v. St. Louis R.
Co., 232 U. S. 318.
A State cannot revoke its license to a foreign corporation on account of the exercise by the corporation of a
constitutional right. Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18
How. 404; Ins. Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Terral v.
Burke Const. Co., 257 U. S. 529; Western Union v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105; St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas,
260 U. S. 346; Fidelity Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426;
Doyle v. Cont. Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; Security Ins. Co.
v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246. A state statute which interferes with or curtails the freedom of contract outside the
State is unconstitutional and void. Allgeyer v. Louisiwna, 165 U. S. 578; N. Y. Life v. Head, 234 U. S. 149;
N. Y. Life v. Dodge, 246 U. S. 357; Compress Co. v.
Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346; Aetna Ins. Co. v. Dunken, 266
U. S. 389; Stone v. Penn Yan Ry., 197 N .Y. 279; Huntington v. Sheehan, 206 N. Y. 486; Palmetto Ins. Co. v.
Beha, 13 Fed. (2d) 500.
The Chrysler-Palmetto policy is a Michigan contract
and all business thereunder is transacted by the Palmetto
in Michigan and is beyond the jurisdiction aud control of
Ohio and its officers. Palmetto Ins. Co. v. Beha, supra.
A policy of insurance and a certificate of insurance issued
under an open policy are two entirely different things.
One is a unilateral contract between the designated
parties; the other is the evidence of a beneficial interest
in a third party under a contract made between A. and
B. Diamond Alkali Co. v. Bourgeois, 3 K. B. Div. 1921;
Connor v. Manchester Assur. Co., 130 Fed. 743. Since
Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, it may be taken as settled so
far as our law is concerned, that insurance is not a "commodity;" that it does not attach to the subject of insurance, be it a building, a vessel, or any other kind of
property, but is a personal contract of indemnity. In the

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Palmetto Ins. Co.

272 U. S.

Chrysler-Palmetto plan, the insurance does not attach to
the car. The purchaser is no party to the contract. The
contract was made for his benefit by the Chrysler Sales
Company and the Palmetto long before his purchase of a
Chrysler car brought him within the designated class of
persons who were to profit by the insurance. He is not
called upon to accept and although he need not avail
himself of the "cover" he cannot by refusal prevent the
insurance coming into effect.
Nor is the dealer who sells the car a party to any insurance transaction. He does not tender a proposal to insure.
nor does he give insurance along with the car. The mere
fact that upon a sale by him to a third person of a piece
of property belonging to him, this third person comes
within a class of beneficiaries named in a contract between
other parties, in the making of which he had no part,
cannot in itself constitute a transaction under that contract. Open or running policies "for the benefit of whom
it may concern" are today a common form of insurance.
It would be absurd to say that a purchasing agent or
merchandise broker who buys for his principal, is engaged
in the insurance business, and must take out an insurance
broker's or agent's license, simply because the moment he
makes his purchase his principal is automatically insured
under an open policy, with the taking out of which the
agent or broker had nothing whatever to do.
The insurance contract under discussion was made in
Detroit, Michigan, the certificates are mailed from there,
and the losses paid from there. The insurance is not in
the form of an offer to insure, as seems to have been the
thought of the judges who sat in Maine and Wisconsin,
but a fait accompli, which needed no tender or acceptance
on the part of either dealer or purchaser. The Palmetto
is bound regardless of what either dealer or purchaser
wants or says or does. The dealer has no authority from
the Palmetto, gets no remuneration, or commission, and

PALMETTO INS. CO. v. CONN.
295

Argument for Clark Motor Co. et al.

the purchaser has no option. There is no element of
compulsion involved in the insurance.
There is here no restraint of trade under the Ohio
statutes. The procedure required by the Ohio law for
determining the financial condition of insurance companies has not been followed and the charge that the
insurance company is "in an unsound condition," in the
absence of some testimony is not available as the basis
for the revocation of a license.
Mr. Duane R. Dills for the appellants, in Nos. 273, 274,
286, and 287.
Chrysler dealers in Wisconsin and Maine are independent automobile merchants and not insurance agents.
They sell cars at retail which they had previously bought
and paid for at wholesale. The dealers had no voice in
the making and no control over the operation of the
Michigan policy. Palmetto Ins. Co. v. Beha, 13 Fed.
(2d) 500, correctly states the law in respect of the Michigan blanket policy and dealers' acts in the sale of the cars.
The Wisconsin and Maine insurance statutes by their
terms are not applicable to the acts of the dealers in
selling the cars, and do not sanction the threatened acts
of the Commissioners of Insurance of those States. The
dealers do not effect insurance, do not collect premiums
nor forward applications for insurance; they receive no
remuneration for effecting insurance and make no fraudulent representations in respect of insurance; the dealers
receive only their usual profit for the sale of their own
property. The fact that Chrysler in a foreign State had
included the cost of insurance as an overhead expense in
the wholesale price of the cars to the dealer does not constitute the.paying of a premium by the dealer in the
purchase at wholesale of the cars, nor the collecting of a
premium by the dealer from the retail purchaser when
the ear is sold at retail for sufficient to reimburse him
for his wholesale price plus his usual profit. The dealers

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Clark Motor Co. et al.

272 U. S.

are not agents of the insurance company; they have no
communication with it and have no authority to act for it.
The insurance is by virtue of the Michigan contract.
The Michigan policy is a completed contract notwithstanding the postponement of its operative effect until
the retail sale of a car. The operative effects of "for
whom it may concern" policies usually are postponed
both as to the identification of the property covered and
of the person or persons insured. See Hagan v. Scottish
Union Ins. Co., 186 U. S. 423. The acceptance of the
benefits of the Michigan policy by the retail purchasers
and other beneficiaries does not constitute the making of
several new contracts. Their rights are those of a third
party to a contract made for their benefit. Nutting v.
Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 553; Amer. Ins. Co. v. King
Lumber Co., 250 U. S. 2; Hooper v. California,155 U. S.
648; Cain v. State, 103 Miss. 701; Bartlett v. Rotchschild,
214 Pa. 421; Anderson v. Northwestern Ins. Co., 51 N. D.
917; State v. Arlington, 157 N. C. 640; Vertrees v. Head,
138 Ky. 83; St. Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S.
346; Hunter v. Mut. Ins. Co., 218 U. S. 573; Prov. Say.
Soc. v. Kentucky, 239 U. S. 103; State v. Int. Paper Co..
96 Vt. 506; Stone v. Old Colony Ry. Co., 212 Mass. 459.
The retail sale of cars covered by the policy does not
subject the insurance company to liability for taxes in
Wisconsin and Maine. See St. Louis Compress Co. v.
Arkansas, supra. Nor do the dealers become agents of the
insurance company for the purpose of service of process.
See Minn. Comm. Assn. v. Benn, 261 U. S. 140. If the
Wisconsin and Maine statutes should be so construed as
to penalize the acts done by the dealers in these cases,
they would be unconstitutional to that extent. These
cases come within the principles laid down by this Court
in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Minn. Comm.
Assn. v. Benn, supra; Aetna Ins. Co. v. Dunken, 266
U. S. 389, and are to be distinguished from Hooper v.

PALMETTO INS. CO. v. CONN.
295

Argument for Conn.

California, 155 U. S. 648; Nutting v. Massachusetts, 183
U. S. 553, in that the dealers do no overt act of insurance
within the States of Wisconsin and Maine other than to
conduct their legitimate business of selling cars.
The States and the officers of the States cannot use
their powers to accomplish a forbidden result; and the
attempt of the Insurance Commissioners to prevent the
sale of Chrysler cars in their respective States because
Chrysler in a foreign State included, as an overhead expense, the cost of insurance in the wholesale price of the
car, amounts to a placing of a burden on interstate commerce. While insurance is not in itself a commodity the
subject of interstate commerce, nevertheless an attempt
to regulate it when effected in a foreign State because its
cost entered into the price of the commodity is an interference with the sale of the commodity itself in interstate
commerce. See Thames Ins. Co. v. United States, 237
U. S. 19; Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189;
Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,268 U. S. 203. The
Commissioners of Insurance have no constitutional right
to arbitrarily interfere with the legitimate business of a
Chrysler dealer in the sale of his car.
Mr. C. S. Younger, with whom Mr. C. C. Crabbe was
on the brief, for the appellee in No. 255.
The action of the plaintiff, coming about four hours
after the license had been revoked by the defendant, rendered the only question then remaining a moot one.
Miner v. Witt, 82 0. S. 237; District Board v. State, 92
0. S. 507; Pollitz v. Pub. Util. Comm., 93 0. S. 483; State
ex rel. Campbell v. Grimes, 94 0. S. 457; Owens v. Board
of Education, 95 0. S. 407; O'Dwyer v. Ohio, 109 0. S.
621; Kimball v. Kimball, 174 U. S. 158; People ex rel.
Kingsland v. Clark, 70 N. Y. 518.
The power of a State to regulate business affected with
a public interest, within its borders, whether of a domestic
or a foreign corporation, is not open to question. The

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Conn.

272 U. S.

State has power, either wholly to exclude a foreign insurance company from doing business within its limits, or
to impose on it such terms as it deems proper as a condition precedent to its right to do business within its limits.
Whitfield v. Aetna Ins. Co., 205 U. S. 489; Carrol v.
Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401; Conn. Ins. Co. v.
Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Vorys v. Connell, 67 0. S. 15.
The State has a right and a duty to regulate the business of insurance. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578.
In order that the purchaser of a car may have the
benefit of this insurance, it is necessary that there shall
appear an intermediary in the person of the automobile
salesman. In the sale of a car he represents that insurance is included. If the purchaser buys a car, it is
through this salesman. If a purchaser obtains a certificate of insurance on the property, it is through the intervention of the same salesman. The intermediary between the purchaser and the Chrysler Corporation is the
salesman. The intermediary between the purchaser and
the insurance company is the salesman. It is impossible
to disassociate the sale of the car from the sale of the
insurance. When the dealer reports the sale of a car
to the general agent of the insurance company, why is
he not the agent of the insurance company in that transaction? He certainly is not the agent of the purchaser,
because that operation is entirely unknown to the purchaser. The insurance never had effective existence until
the sale at retail, by its very terms, or, as it may differently be stated, it is only to be made operative by an act
of the retail dealer, and, the legal concept of insurance is
that in the absence of special circumstances it does not
attach to property but to persons. Carpenter v. Providence Co., 16 Pet. 495; Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168; N. Y.
Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge, 231 U. S. 495. The sale of the car
is the last act to be done to make the insurance contract
effective. That act takes place in Ohio and up to that
minute no insurance has been in force under a contract.

PALMETTO INS: CO. v. CONN.
295

Opinion of the Court.

Under the provisions of § 9586, General Code of Ohio,
the person performing that act becomes the agent of the
insurance company which "thereafter" issues a certificate or policy, if you please, to the purchaser.
As to what constitutes doing business, see Lumbermen's
Ins. Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407; Laurentide Co. v. Durey,
231 Fed. 228; Traveling Men's Assn.. v. Ruge, 242 Fed.
766; Beach v. Kerr Co., 243 Fed. 710; Phillips Co. v.
Everett, 262 Fed. 344.
Mr. Raymond Fellows, Attorney General of Maine,
with whom Mr. J. F. Gould was on the brief, for appellees
in Nos. 273 and 274.
Mr. T. L. McIntosh, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, with whom Messrs. Herman L. Ekern, Attorney General, and Walter H. Bennett were on the brief,
for appellees in Nos. 286 and 287.
Mr. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
These cases all raise the same question. The first,
Palmetto Fire Insurance Company v. Conn, is a suit to
enjoin the Ohio Superintendent of Insurance from revoking the license of the plaintiff, a corporation of South
Carolina, to do business in Ohio, on the ground that it
has violated statutes of the latter State. These statutes
forbid the insurance of property in the State except by a
legally authorized agent, resident in Ohio, and tax the
business lawfully done there. They provide also that any
one who procures an application for insurance shall be
held to be the agent of the party thereafter issuing the
policy. The plaintiff says that if the statutes are held
to apply to what it has done they are invalid under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. The case was tried before a statutory court of
three judges and an injunction was refused. 9 Fed. (2d)
202.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The facts are simple. The plaintiff made a contract of
insurance in Mi~higan with the Chrysler Sales Corporation,
a Michigan corporation which sells all the automobiles
made by the Chrysler Corporation. This contract purported to insure purchasers of Chrysler cars against fire and
theft, and to become automatically effective from the date
on which the purchaser took delivery or a bill of sale of the
car; the Chrysler Company to send a monthly report to
the plaintiff of all cars for which insurance was thus provided and to pay premiums accordingly at Detroit. If
anyone bought a car he got the insurance whether he
wished it or not as part of his bargain, and a certificate
was sent to him by the plaintiff. The question is whether
this transaction brought the plaintiff within the taxing
power of Ohio. If it did not, the power of the State to
exclude the Company altogether could not be used as a
means to accomplish a result beyond the State's constitutional power. Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270
U. S. 426.
Manifestly there was nothing in the contract between
the plaintiff and the Chrysler Sales Corporation, without
more, that Ohio could lay hold of, even if it insured property in Ohio. But the contract contemplated and provided for a benefit to third persons if, when, and where
they complied with its conditions. When a man bought
a car in Ohio, by that act he made effective the agreement
of the Company to insure future purchasers, and imposed
upon it an obligation that did not exist before. It is true
that the obligation arose from a contract made under the
law of another State, but the act was done in Ohio and
the capacity to do it came from the law of Ohio, so that
the co5peration of that law was necessary to the obligation imposed. It would be held in some jurisdictions that
the purchaser became party to a contract with the insurance company. By universal consent he at least would
become the beneficiary of a contract for his benefit.

PALMETTO INS. CO. v. CONN.
Opinion of the Court.

295

Whatever technical form may be given to the reasoning,
the substance is that by acts done in Ohio the purchaser
obtains for himself the advantage of insurance that before
that moment did not exist. It does not matter whether
his getting it was a large or an inconspicuous feature of
his bargain. It was part of it in any event, and we cannot doubt that the lower Court was right in holding that
in such circumstances the State could insist upon its right
to tax. It would be extravagant to say that the State's
general power to deny to the plaintiff the right to enter
or remain within it for business unless it paid for these
transactions as a part of the price, must be denied upon
constitutional grounds.
The two suits in Wisconsin, Clark Motor Company v.
Smith, Commissioner of Insurance, and Chrysler Sales
Corporationv. Smith, were begun about the same time as
the Ohio case. The Clark Motor Company described itself as a distributor, buying cars from the Chrysler Sales
Company and selling them to retail dealers, known as
dealers. Neither distributor nor dealer acts as agent for
the Chrysler Sales Company, but each buys and sells on its
own behalf. The position of the Chrysler Sales Company,
the other plaintiff, has been described. The Commissioner
of Insurance treats the sales as contravening statutes of
Wisconsin similar to those of Ohio. A Court of three
judges refused an injunction against his enforcing the
Acts. 9 Fed. (2d) 666. We are of opinion that the decision was correct. It is argued that the statutes were
misconstrued by the Court. An appeal to this Court is
allowed when an injunction is granted or refused on the
ground of the alleged unconstitutionality of a State law.
If we assume that other questions are open, still it is not
desirable that the Courts of the United States should go
beyond necessity to instruct the officials of a State as to
the meaning of a State law. Unless the case is very clear
their action should be left to the control of the State
23468' °-27-0

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

Courts. There are plausible reasons in this case for following the local interpretation and we think that the
Court below was right in accepting the Commissioner's
view. Other arguments thrown in as makeweights do
not need to be discussed. The fact that the cost of the insurance was taken up into the price of a machine otherwise lawfully sold does not prevent the insurance being
reached. See Herbert v. The Shanley Co., 242 U. S. 591.
The question raised by these bills is the general one,
whether the State laws can be applied to this insurance.
That we have answered. Exactly how far the laws can
go and what proceedings can or cannot be taken, may be
left to be determined, if the questions arise, in the State
Courts.
The cases from Maine, Chrysler Sales Corporation v.
Spencer, Insurance Commissioner, and Utterback-Gleason
Company v. Spencer, are like the last, and follow the Wisconsin decision after a full discussion. 9 Fed. (2d) 674.
These decisions also must stand.
Decrees affirmed.
DORCHY v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 119.

Argued October 7, 1926.-Decided October 25, 1926.

1. A decision by a state supreme court as to the separability of parts
of a state statute from other parts found invalid by this Court, is
binding on this Court. P. 308.

2. Upon review of a state court's judgment, facts not in the record
and not noticed judicially, can not be considered. P. 311.
3. Mere reference, by the state supreme court, to another case as a
controlling decision, did not incorporate the record of that ease
into the record of the one in which the reference was made. Id.
4. There is no constitutional right to call a strike solely for the purpose of coercing the employer to pay a disputed stale claim of a
former employee, a member of the union. P. 311.

