OTTINGER v. BROOKLYN UNION CO.
576

579

Syllabus.

concerning values. It also sets out distinctly what the
evidence discloses as to the cost of production, expenses
of the business, etc. He concluded that the prescribed
rate of one dollar per thousand feet would not yield a
return of six per centum and was therefore confiscatory.
With this conclusion the court below agreed, and we find
nothing whatever suggested by the Attorney General in
brief or oral argument which would justify material modification or reversal of the final decree in so far as it so
adjudges and directs appropriate injunctions.
As the statute is clearly confiscatory and therefore
invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment, it was unnecessary for the trial court to consider other objections
thereto, and we have not done so.
The decree of the District Court will be modified by
excluding therefrom those parts which declare the Act
invalid for any reason except that enforcement would
result in confiscation. Thus modified, it is affirmed. All
costs of the appeal will be taxed against appellant.
Affirmed with modification.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in the result.

OTTINGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW
YORK, v. BROOKLYN UNION GAS COMPANY.
OTTINGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW
YORK, v. KINGS COUNTY LIGHTING COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 358, 365.

Argued October 18, 19, 1926.-Decided November
29, 1926.

An Act of New York, c. 899, (1923), prescribing a gas rate of one
dollar per thousand feet, held confiscatory. P. 581.
7 F. (2d) 192; Id. 628, modified and affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

APPEALS from decrees of the District Court enjoining
enforcement of a New York rate-fixing statute, in suits
by the Brooklyn Union Gas Company and the Kings
County Lighting Company against the Attorney General
of the State and the New York Public Service Commission.

Mr. John Holley Clark, Jr., with whom Messrs. Albert
Ottinger, Attorney General of New York, William Hayward, Charles E. Buchner, and Anthony P. Ludden were
on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. William N. Dykman, with whom Mr. Jackson A.
Dykman was on the brief, for the Brooklyn Union Gas Co.
Mr. Samuel F. Moran, with whom Mr. John D. Monroe
was on the brief, for the Kings County Lighting Co.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Separate suits were begun by appellees in the United
States District Court, Eastern District of New York,
against the Public Service Commission and the Attorney
General of that State. They sought injunctions against
enforcement of the Act of June 2, 1923, c. 899, Laws of
New York 1923, by which the Legislature directed that
gas of six hundred and fifty British thermal units should
be sold at not more than one dollar per thousand feet.
Prior to June 2, 1923, under orders of the Commission,
the Brooklyn Union Gas Company had been charging
one dollar and fifteen cents and the Kings County Lighting Company one dollar and thirty cents per thousand
feet for gas of five hundred and thirty-seven British
thermal units.
The causes were referred to different masters. They
took much evidence, and each reported that the rate prescribed by the Legislature would yield less than five per
centufa upon the fair value of the complainants' property
devoted to public use. With some exceptions, not now

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
579

Syllabus.

important, these reports were approved and the court
adjudged the statute confiscatory and therefore invalid.
Also, that it was unreasonable and invalid in respect of
the standard of six hundred and fifty British thermal
units. 7 Fed. (2d) 192, 628.
The Commission declined to ask for an appeal to this
court. The Attorney General, upon petitions which allege " that in substance the decree restrains the defendants from enforcing in any way Chapter 899 of the Laws
of 1923 of the State of New York and declares that said
statute violates or is in contravention of Section 10 of
Article I and of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States," sued out broad appeals
and has presented many assignments of error-one hundred and seven in No. 358, and twenty-one in No. 365.
But we find no reason whatever advanced by him in
brief or oral argument which would justify reversal of
either decree.
The statute was clearly confiscatory in effect and there
was no necessity for the District Court to consider any
other objection thereto. We have not done so.
The decrees will be modified by excluding therefrom
such parts as adjudge the statute invalid for any reason
except conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment because
confiscatory in effect. Thus modified, both are affirmed.
All costs will be taxed against appellant.

Affirmed as modified.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in the result.

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 47.

Argued April 30, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.

1. The provision of the National Prohibition Act that "Not more
than a pint of spirituous liquor to be taken internally shall be

