VAN OSTER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

VAN OSTER v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 303. Argued October 20, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.
1. The power of a State to forfeit property used in violation of its
liquor prohibition laws extends to property (an automobile) of an
innocent owner who entrusted its possession and use to the wrongdoer. P. 467.
2. Semble that there is no valid distinction rendering this police
power less plenary, under the Fourteenth Amendment, than similar exercise of the federal taxing power under the Fifth Amendment. P. 468.
3. The mere fact that the state statute here in question has a broader
scope than § 26 of the National Prohibition Act, authorizing confiscation of vehicles used in unlawful transportation of liquor, does
not affect its validity. P. 468.
4. The Constitution does not require a jury trial of such forfeitures
under state law. P. 469.
5. The sufficiency of the evidence in such proceedings, and the effect
on the forfeiture of a subsequent acquittal of the offending person
in a separate trial, are matters of state law. P. 469.
119 Ran. 874, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas
affirming a judgment forfeiting an automobile, under the
laws of Kansas, because of its use in the illegal transportation of intoxicating liquor.
Messrs. Duane R. Dills and William H. Thompson,
with whom Messrs. Wilbert F. Thompson and Albert A.
Jones were on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Roland Boynton, Assistant Attorney General of
Kansas, with whom Messrs. Charles B. Griffith, Attorney
General, and Ray H. Calihan were on the brief, for the
State of Kansas.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff in error purchased an automobile of local dealers in Finney County, Kansas, agreeing, as part considera"341;Wo-2-*7

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

tion for the sale, to its retention by the vendors for use in
their business. Clyde Brown, an associate of the dealers,
was permitted by them, with the knowledge of plaintiff in
error, to make frequent use of the automobile. Brown was
arrested by state officers and an information was filed
charging that he used an automobile (which was plaintiff's) for the illegal transportation of intoxicating liquor
and seeking its forfeiture and sale as a common nuisance
under the Kansas statute. Laws of Kansas, 1919, c. 217,
§§ 1-5; §§ 21-2162 to 21-2167 R. S. Plaintiff intervened,
denying the allegations of the information and setting up
her ownership of the automobile and that the transportation of intoxicating liquor, if any, was without her knowledge or authority.
A trial by the District Court of Finney County without
a jury, as provided by the Kansas statute, resulted in a
judgment of forfeiture. This determination was affirmed
on appeal to the Supreme Court of Kansas, State v. Van
Oster, 119 Kan. 874. After this decision, but prior to a
petition for rehearing subsequently denied, Brown was acquitted by a jury of the offense charged in the information.
The case comes here on writ of error, Jud. Code, 237(a), as
amended.
The Kansas statute, cited above, declares that an automobile or other vehicle used in the state in the transportation of intoxicating liquor is a common nuisance and establishes a procedure followed in this case for its forfeiture
and sale. The Kansas Supreme Court in this, as in other
cases, State v. Peterson, 107 Kans. 641; State v. Stephens,
109 Kan. 254, has construed this act as authorizing the
forfeiture of the interest of an innocent owner or lienor in
property entrusted to the wrongdoer.
It is contended that the statute as interpreted denies the
due process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The statute is further assailed on the ground that
it is repugnant to the provisions of the National Prohi-

VAN OSTER v. KANSAS.
465

Opinion of the Court.

bition Act which covers the same field, and finally, objection is made that evidence of the intoxicating character
of the liquor transported was lacking, and that the acquittal of Brown establishes beyond contradiction that
no crime was committed.
It is not questioned that a state in the exercise of its
police power may forfeit property used by its owner in
violation of state laws prohibiting the liquor traffic, Kidd
v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; cf. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623, 671, et seq.; Lawtonv. Steele, 152 U. S. 133. It is unnecessary for us to inquire whether the police power of
the state extends to the confiscation of the property of
innocent persons appropriated and used by the law
breaker without the owner's consent, for here the offense
of unlawful transportation was committed by one entrusted by the owner with the possession and use of the
offending vehicle.
It is not unknown or indeed uncommon for the law to
visit upon the owner of property the unpleasant consequences of the unauthorized action of one to whom he
has entrusted it. Much of the jurisdiction in admiralty,
so much of the statute and common law of liens as
enables a mere bailee to subject the bailed property to a
lien, the power of a vendor of chattels in possession to sell
and convey good title to a stranger, are familiar examples.
They have their counterpart in legislation imposing liability on owners of vehicles for the negligent operation
by those entrusted with their use, regardless of a masterservant relation. Laws of New York, 1924, c. 534; Michigan Pub. Acts, 1915; Act No. 302, § 29 (constitutionality upheld, Stapleton v. Independent Brewing Co., 198
Mich. 170). They suggest that certain uses of property
may be regarded as so undesirable that the owner surrenders his control at his peril. The law thus builds a secondary defense against a forbidden use and precludes evasions
by dispensing with the necessity of judicial inquiry as

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

to collusion between the wrongdoer and the alleged innocent owner. So here the legislature, to effect a purpose
clearly within its power, has adopted a device consonant
with recognized principles and therefore within the limits of due process.
It has long been settled that statutory forfeitures of
property entrusted by the innocent owner or lienor to
another who uses it in violation of the revenue laws of
the United States is not a violation of the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment. Goldsmith-Grant Co.
v. United States, 254 U. S. 505; Dobbins Distillery v.
United States, 96 U. S. 395; United States v. Stowell, 133
U. S. 1; United States v. Mincey, 254 Fed. 287; Logan
v. United States, 260 Fed. 746; United States v. One
Saxon Automobile, 257 Fed. 251; United States v. 2461.
Pounds of Tobacco, 103 Fed. 791; United States v. 220
Patented Machines, 99 Fed. 559; but cf. National Bond
& Investment Co. v. Gibson, 6 Fed. (2d) 288. A like
principle has been applied to the unlawful introduction
of liquor into Indian territory in violation of § 2140, R. S.
United States v. One Buick Roadster Automobile, 244
Fed. 961; United States v. One Seven Passenger Paigc
Car, 259 Fed. 641.
We do not perceive any valid distinction between the
application of the Fourteenth Amendment to the exercise of the police power of a state in this particular field
and the application of the Fifth Amendment to the sirilar exercise of the taxing power by the federal government, or any reason for holding that the one is not as
plenary as the other. See Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S.
310, 325; Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S.
401, 410, and see Kidd v. Pearson, supra, at p. 26, upholding the police power of a state to destroy property
used in the unlawful manufacture of liquor, on the authority of Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, a tax case.
The mere fact that the statute now in question has a
broader scope than § 26 of the National Prohibition Act,

HUGHES BROS. CO. v. MINNESOTA.
465

Syllabus.

authorizing confiscation of vehicles used in unlawful transportation of liquor, does not affect its validity. In Hebert v. State of Louisiana, ante, p. 312, it was held
that the same transaction may constitute separate
offenses against both state and federal sovereignties,
and that in separate prosecutions the statutes of
that sovereignty under whose auspices the proceedings are instituted are alone to be applied. Cf. United
States v. Lanza, 260 U. S.377; Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania,
258 U. S.403.
The other questions raised by the record as to the
sufficiency of the evidence and the effect of the acquittal
of Brown on his separate trial, at most involved questions
of state procedure only as to which the decision of the
state court is controlling. No tenable ground for attacking the constitutionality of the determination is suggested. In the brief and on the argument an attempt was
made to question the constitutionality of the provisions
of this statute dispensing with a jury trial in the forfeiture proceeding. But the record does not indicate that
a jury trial was demanded and the question is not raised
by the assignments of error. In any case the objection
is unsubstantial. Missouri ex rel. Hurwitz v. North, 271
U. S. 40; Hurfado v. California, 110 U. S.516; Walker
v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Kennard v. Louisiana ex rel.
Morgan, 92 U. S.480.
Affirmed.
HUGHES BROTHERS TIMBER COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 170.

Argued October 6, 7, 1926.--Decided November 23, 1926.

1. A State can not tax personal property which is in actual transit
in interstate commerce. P. 471.

