I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
425

Syllabus.

determines that the holding of such a diploma is a necessary qualification for the practice of dentistry; or that
the distinction made in the granting of licenses between
applicants who hold stich diplomas and those who do not,
is a classification which has no real or substantial basis.
And the constitutionality of the statute must be sustained.
This conclusion is in harmony with the decisions in
other state courts involving the constitutional validity of
statutes regulating the practice of medicine or dentistry
which contain similar or analogous provisions, as well as
with the earlier Minnesota decisions. In re Thompson,
36 Wash. 377; State v. Creditor,44 Kans. 565; State v.
Green, 112 Ind. 462; People v. Phippin, 70 Mich. 6; Ex
Parte Spinney, 10 Nev. 323; State v. Vandersluis, 42
Minn. 129; State v. Graves, 161 Minn. 422. *And see
Hewitt v. Charier, 16 Pick. (Mass.) 353; Ex parte WhitIcy, 144 Cal. 167; Wert v. Clutter,37 Ohio St. 347; Timmerman v. Morrison, 14 Johns. (N. Y.) 369. And it is
not in conflict with the decisions in Smith v. Texas, 233
U. S. 630, and State v. Walker, 48 Wash. 8, on which the
plaintiff in error relies, which dealt with statutes attaching unreasonable and arbitrary requirements to the pursuit of the employments or trades of locomotive engineers
and barbers. These manifestly involve very different
considerations from those relating to such professions as
dentistry, requiring a high degree of scientific learning.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

I. T. S. RUBBER COMPANY v. ESSEX RUBBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 36.

Argued April 13, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. The Court may decline to consider points not presented in compliance with Rule 25, concerning briefs. P. 431.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

272 U. S.

2. A decree of infringement recovered by a patentee in a suit against
a dealer in goods embodying his invention, does not bind by
estoppel the manufacturer of the goods, from whom the dealer
procured them, where the manufacturer refused to become a party
to or assume any control over the suit and took no part in it
otherwise than in the adjustment of the damages after a decree
pro confesso had been entered. P. 432.
3. Patent 14,049, reissued, January 11, 1916, to the I. T. S. Company,
as assignee, on an original patent to Tufford, of 1914, for resilient
heels, is limited, as to Claims 5-9, to the specific form of threepoint-contact heel lift, whose upper side and breast edges, as well
as all other points of the upper surface, lie below the plane passing
through and defined by the rear upper edge and breast corners of
the lift. P. 434.
4. Where an applicant for a patent to cover a new combination is
compelled by the rejection of his application by the Patent Office
to narrow his claim by the introduction of a new element, he cannot
after the issue of the patent broaden his claim by dropping that
element. P. 443.
5. Where a claim to a combination is thus restricted to specified
elements, all must be regarded as material, and the limitations so
imposed by the inventor must be strictly construed against him
and looked upon as disclaimers. P. 444.
6. And the patentee, having thus narrowed his claim to obtain the
patent, may not thereafter, by construction or by resort to the
doctrine of equivalents, give the claim the larger scope which it
might have had without the amendments amounting to a disclaimer. P. 444.
7. The claims in suit were not infringed by the heels made by defendant, which are not three-point-contact lifts, their upper side edges
having no vertical curve and lying entirely in the same horizontal
plane as the rear edge and breast corners. P. 444.
1 F. (2d) 780, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (266 U. S. 600) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed one of the District Court
dismissing the bill in a patent infringement suit. The
patent had been construed otherwise by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in 260 Fed. 947. See also
other cases cited in footnote 8 to the opinion.

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
429

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. F. 0. Richey, with whom Mr. Melville Church was
on the brief, for the petitioner.
Mr. Lucius E. Varney, with whom Mr. Frederick L.
Emery was on the brief, for the respondent.
Mr. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit in equity brought by the I. T. S. Rubber
Company against the Essex Rubber Company in the Federal District Court for Massachusetts, for the infringement of United States patent No. 14,049, on resilient
heels, reissued to the I.T. S. Company January 11, 1916,
as assignee, on an original patent to John G. Tufford,
issued in 1914. After final hearing on the pleadings and
proof ' the bill was dismissed by the District Court for
want of infringement. This was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 1 F. (2d) 780. And there being a conflict of opinion with the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit as to the scope of the patent, this writ of
certiorari was granted.
The Essex Company, which manufactures and sells the
heels alleged to infringe, expressly admitted the validity
of the reissued patent. And the only questions are:
First, whether it is estopped to deny infringement; second,
if not, whether infringement is shown.
1. In the courts below the I. T. S. Company relied on
estoppels by reason of adjudications in various prior suits
brought by it in the Sixth Circuit against dealers in the
Essex Company's heels. In the brief for the I. T. S.
Company in this Court it is asserted, in general terms, that
the action of the Essex Company " in suits brought against
its jobbers in the Sixth Circuit estop it from denying in-

' Various intermediate proceedings, on a preliminary motion to dismiss, appear in 270 Fed. 593 (D. C.), 276 Fed. 478 (C. C. A.), and
281 Fed. 5 (C. C. A.).

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

fringement here," and that the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred in holding that it was not estopped by the decrees
in such suits. The argument in the brief, however, specifies and deals with only one of such prior suits; and there
being as to the others no semblance of compliance with
the requirements of Rule 25 of this Court,' we need consider only the suit specifically relied on.
That was a suit brought by the I. T. S. Company against
one Wendt, a dealer in Essex heels of a type involved in
the present suit, in which infringement of the patent was
adjudged. The I. T. S. Company contends that the Essex
Company, although not a party of record, took entire control of the defense, participated in the suit until the final
decree, paid all the expenses, and is now estopped from
denying infringement as therein adjudged.
The material facts found by the District Court are:
The Essex Company, after being notified by Wendt of the
commencement of the suit, notified the counsel of the
I. T. S. Company that it did not wish to, and would not,
appear. Wendt thereafter voluntarily allowed the suit
to go by default, and an order was entered taking the bill
pro con!esso. This was followed by an interlocutory decree pro confesso adjudging the infringement of the patent
and Wendt's liability for damages and profits, and ordering an accounting. Down to the entry of this decree the
Essex Company exercised no control over the management
and conduct of the suit. Thereafter the Essex Company,
having previously written Wendt that it would reimburse
2This rule provides that the brief for the plaintiff in error, appellant or petitioner shall contain, inter alia, a "concise statement of
the case, containing all that is material to the consideration of ihe
questions presented, with appropriate page references to the print ed
record," cl. 2(d); a "specification of such of the assigned errors as
are intended to be urged," cl. 2(e); and an "argument exhibiting
clearly the points of fact and of law being presented," cl.
2(f). 266
U. S. 671.

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
Opinion of the Court.

429

him for any losses he sustained by reason of the suit, suggested that he and counsel whom it had employed procure
an adjustment of the damages and profits. Wendt and the
counsel for the Essex Company thereupon secured an
agreement to settle the case by Wendt's payment of
$1,000. This was embodied in a stipulation signed by the
I. T. S. Company's counsel and by the Essex Company's
counsel as counsel for Wendt, and filed in the case. This
stipulation, with the interlocutory decree, was thereafter
made the basis of a final decree, re-adjudging the infringement, reciting the settlement, and adjudging that the
I. T. S. Company recover of Wendt $1,000 and the costs
of the suit. Wendt paid this judgment and was reimbursed by the Essex Company. The District Court
further found specifically that, under the circumstances,
the Essex Company did not control the suit; and held that,
even though the I. T. S. Company understood that the
counsel negotiating the settlement represented the Essex
Company as well as Wendt in adjusting the damages, it
was not estopped from contesting the question of infringement raised in the present case.
On the appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals stated that
the record showed clearly that the Essex Company refused to become a party to the suit or assume any control
over it, and took no part in the conduct or control of
the suit, "but only in the adjustment of the damages"
after the pro confesso decree had been entered; and approved both the findings and ruling of the District Court.
There is nothing which, under the well settled rule,
Del Pozo v. Wilson Cypress Co., 269 U. S. 82, 89, justifies us in disturbing the concurrent findings of fact of the
two courts below; and we concur in their ruling that on
the facts thus found the Essex Company is not estopped
from contesting the question of infringement.
2. The question of infringement as here presented
turns upon matters of law arising out of a file wrapper
'1341N'-27-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

defense interposed by the Essex Company, which insists
that the reissued patent, although valid, was so limited
in scope by the proceedings in the Patent Office that the
Essex heels do not infringe.
The patent covers the part of a shoe commonly called
a rubber heel, or cushion heel lift.' This is usually made
of rubber, and is attached to the under side of the leather
heel so as to furnish a yielding, resilient heel, giving softness to the tread and quietness in walking. These heels,
which are in common use, are of two types, the flat and
the concavo-convex, both of which were old when Tufford
made his invention. The flat heel, which is the older,
is cemented to the leather and then fastened on by nails
or screws. The driving in of the nails or screws, however,
has a tendency to cause the rubber to spring away from
the leather around the edges and produce an open seam.
In the concavo-convex type the body of the rubber heel
is curved downwards. It is attached to the leather heel,
without any cement, by placing its upper concave side
under the leather, pressing it upward flatly and then
nailing or screwing it on tightly. This, through the tendency of the rubber to resume its original curved form,
tends to keep it tightly pressed upwards against the
leather and overcome the tendency of the flat heels to
separate from the leather at the edges. This characteristic of the concavo-convex heels, often called the "tightedge effect," was referred to as early as 1889 in Ferguson's
patent No. 638,228.
The Tufford heel is of the concavo-convex type. We
insert here reproductions of Figure 2 of the drawings of
the reissued patent, which is described as "a front to rear
sectional view through the lift in position disposed against
the under side of a shoe heel and immediately prior to
application thereto," and shows one-half of the lift on a
3 The under layers of shoe heels were called "lifts" by the cobblers.

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
429

Opinion of the Court.

median section; and of Figure 4, which is described as" a
perspective view looking at the upper side of the lift
removed."

l

d

The reissued patent contains ten claims. The first four,
which repeat the claims of the original patent, relate
merely to the form and position of the washers in a cushion heel lift, and to grooves, channels and suction areas
in its concave surface. They are not here involved. The
others are additional claims relating to shape defining
improvements. The bill charges infringement of the new
claims 5 to 9, inclusive. Claim 5 reads:
"A heel lift of substantially non-metallic resilient material having its body portion of concavo-convex form on
every line of cross section, the concave upper face lying
entirely below a plane passing through the rear upper
edge and the breast4 corners of the lift."
The last clause in this claim, which we have italicised-about which the present controversy turns-is contained in all the other claims in suit in identical or precisely equivalent words, except that in claim 8 the word
" rear " does not appear before the words " upper edge."
For immediate purposes we treat claim 5 as typical of
all the claims in suit, passing for the moment the consideration of the question whether there is any essential
distinction in respect to claim 8.
The "breast " is the front face of the heel.
BAll these claims are set forth in full in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, at p. 781.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The Essex Company contends: (1) That by the proceedings in the Patent Office these claims were limited
to the form of concavo-convex heel lift in which the concave upper face lies entirely below a plane passing through
the rear upper edge and breast corners, that is, one in
which, owing to the curvature of the upper face, only its
rear edge and breast corners lie in the same horizontal
plane, and its side and breast edges, as well as all other
portions of its surface, lie below the plane passing through
and defined by these three points--this being referred to
as the "three-point-contact" form, since when the lift is
brought in contact with the leather heel, before being
flattened, only the rear edge and two breast corners will
touch the leather. (2) That the claims, thus limited,
are not infringed by the Essex heels, as their upper side
edges, having no vertical curve, lie in and not below the
plane passing through the rear edge and breast corners.
The file wrapper shows that on the application for the
reissued patent it contained as first presented no reference to the position of the upper rear edge and breast
edges of the lift in relation to the other portions of its
upper surface. Several new claims were submitted some
of which, at least,6 described a lift having its attaching
face concave on every line of cross section. These were
rejected by the examiner on reference to Nerger's patent
No. 661,129. Another set of claims was then substituted
describing a heel lift of resilient material comprising a
body portion of concavo-convex form on every line of
cross section and normally held in such form by its own
inherent resiliency. These were also rejected by the examiner on reference to Nerger.
After an interview with the examiner in which the applicant exhibited samples of his own lift and the Nerger
lift, he then amended the specification by inserting the
6The file wrapper does not set forth all of these claims.

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
429

Opinion of the Court.

statement: "By reference to Figs. 2 and 4 of the drawings, it will be seen that the concave upper face of the
lift lies entirely below a plane tangent to the rear upper
edge and the breast corners of the lift, whereby to cause
the entire margin of said lift to exert a uniform pressure
on the heel of a shoe when the lift is positioned on the
heel and the convex face thereof depressed to flatten said
lift." He also substituted another set of claims, 5 to 9,
inclusive. Claim 5--which was typical of all the others
unless claim 8 was differentiated by the fact that the
word "rear" did not appear before the words "upper
edge "-read: "A heel lift of substantially non-metallic
resilient material having its body portion of concavo-convex form on every line of cross section, the conciave upper
face lying entirely below a plane tangent to the rearupper
edge and the breast corners of the lift."
In presenting these amendments counsel for the applicant urged that Nerger's lift was not concavo-convex on
every line of cross section since the deepest portion of
the concavity in its upper surface was at the breast; and
that its concave upper surface did not lie entirely below a
plane tangent to the rear edge and breast corners. In
replying, the examiner, after calling attention to the fact
that on the application for the original patent the applicant had presented claims for a lift in which all the edges
of the attaching face occupied the same plane-which
were rejected-stated that Figure 2 of the drawings indicated the same construction and did not show a lift whose
concave upper face lay entirely below a plane tangent
to the rear upper edge and breast corners, as set forth
in the amendment to the specification, since a point midway between the breast corners was in contact with the
upper heel, and "a plane tangent to the rear edge and
the breast corners would also pass through the entire
front [breast] edge "; that the applicant's sample lift
did "not correspond to the drawing, since all the points

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 t. S.

of its breast except the two corner points lie below a
straight line passing through these points "; that in "each
of the claims 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 the applicant specifies that
the concave upper face lies entirely below a plane tangent
to the rear upper edge and the breast corners"; and
that these claims do "not read on the drawing, and are
therefore rejected."
To meet this rejection the applicant further amended
the specification by substituting for the prior amendment
the statement: "By references to Figs. 2 and 4 of the
drawings, it will be seen that the concave upper face of
the lift lies entirely below a, plane passing through the
rear upper edge and breast corners of the lift . . . In
other words, owing to the curvature of the concave attaching face of the lift, the rear upper edge and breast
corners of said concave attaching face are disposed in a
plane above the upper side edges and the breast edges of
the lift." He also amended each of the claims by substituting the words "passing through" for "tangent
to "-corresponding to the change that had been made in
the specification-and added claim 10, reading: "A heel
lift of substantially resilient material comprising a body
portion, the attaching face of which is concave and the
tread face convex on every line of cross section, the rear
upper edge and breast corners of the concave attaching
face of the lift being disposed in a plane above the upper
side and breast edges of said concave attaching face." In
presenting these amendments counsel for the applicant
stated that the matter quoted by the examiner from the
file wrapper of the original patent merely showed, if anything, that error had crept into the prosecution of the
original application, which should be corrected; that as
Figure 4 of the drawings showed "that the breast lift was
cut away on a curved line, the attaching face of the lift
at the breast thereof must necessarily lie in a plane below

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
429

Opinion of the Court.

the breast corners and the rear edge of said lift or, in other
words, the rear upper edge and breast corners of the concave attaching face are disposed in a plane above the
upper side and breast edges thereof "; that the showing
in Figure 2 was therefore obviously erroneous, and,
although claim 10 read upon it without any correction, it
did not clearly illustrate the applicant's invention; and
that permission was requested to correct the drawing.
This was granted, and Figure 2 was changed to the form
which we have reproduced in this opinion, showing that
the upper side and breast edges lie below a plane passing
through the rear edge and breast corners. The new
claims were then allowed, and the patent was re-issued.
It thus appears that the applicant acquiesced in the
successive rejections by the examiner on reference to
Nerger of claims for a lift having its attaching face concave on every line of cross section and for a lift of resilient
material of a concavo-convex form on every line of cross
section, and that to meet this reference he amended the
specification so as to state not only that the concave
upper surface lies entirely below a.plane passing through
the rear upper edge and breast corners, but that "in other
words," owing to the curvature of the concave attaching
face the rear upper edge and breast corners are disposed
in a plane above the upper side and breast edges;
amended the claims to describe a lift whose concave upper
surface lies entirely below a plane passing through the
rear upper edge and breast corners; and finally changed
his drawing so as to correspond precisely with these
amendments-and that then, and not until then, were the
claims allowed.
We think that by this proceeding the claims were
limited to the specific form of a "three-point-contact"
lift, that is, to one in which, owing to the vertical curve
of the upper side and breast edges, these edges, as well

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

as all other portions of the upper surface, lie below the
plane passing through and defined by the rear upper edge
and breast corners. We cannot agree with the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in
United States Rubber Co. v. I. T. S. Rubber Co., 260 Fed.
947, 948, that claim 10, which contains the limiting clause
"the rear upper edge and breast corners of the concave attaching face of the lift being disposed in a plane
above the upper side and breast edges," is the only
one which is limited to the three-point-contact lift. It
is true that if the limiting clause in claims 5 to 9, "the
concave upper face lying entirely below a plane passing
through the rear upper edge and breast corners," stood
alone, there might be some question as to whether the
side and breast edges were to be considered as a part of
the upper face. However, the meaning of this clause was
made entirely clear by the last amendment to the specification, adding to the previous statement that the concave
upper face lies entirely below a plane passing through ihe
rear upper edge and breast corners, that, "in other
words," the rear upper edge and breast corners are
disposed in a plane above the upper side and breast edges.
We are unable to agree with the view that the phrase "in
other words" was here used to connect alternative
thoughts which were not identical, and think that they
were used in their ordinary sense to introduce a specific
element of the identical matter previously described, precisely defining a lift whose upper surface lies below a
plane passing through the rear edge and breast corners as
one whose upper side and breast edges lie below this
plane-this being emphasized by the statement made by
counsel for the applicant and the corresponding change
which was made in the drawing. The limiting clause in
claims 5 to 9 must therefore be read in the sense in which
it is thus defined by the specification, that is, as referring
to a three-point-contact lift whose side and breast edges,
as well as all other points in its upper surface, lie below

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
429

Opinion of the Court.

the plane passing through the rear edge and breast
corners.
There is no ground for differentiating claims 5 to 9
from claim 10 in this respect in order to give effect to
claim 10. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit expressly declined to rest its conclusion on this
ground (p. 948). And as to this it suffices to say, that,
as was pointed out by the District Judge, claims 5 to 9
are sufficiently differentiated in other respects by the
presence of subsidiary elements relating to the character
of the material, nail openings, etc., that do not appear in
claim 10.
We find, further, no significance in the substitution of
the words "passing through" for "tangent to" in the
specification and claims. These phrases were used interchangeably by the examiner. The applicant pointed out
no distinction in their meaning, and, so far as appears,
merely adopted "passing through" as the prefeured form
of equivalent expressions. And they have no difference in meaning as used in the specification and claims;
the one phrase as well as the other aptly defining the
plane passing through the upper rear edge and breast
corners.
We also find that the fact that the word "rear" does
not appear before the words "upper edge" in claim 8 is
not a ground upon which it may be differentiated from
the others. It appears that this omission was inadvertent
and unnoticed. The applicant called no attention to the
omission and did not differentiate this claim from the
others in his effort to avoid the reference to Nerger's
patent. The examiner stated that "each of the claims
5, 6, 7, 8 and 9" specified a plane tangent to "the rear
upper edge and the breast corners." And we cannot believe that if the applicant's counsel intended to differentiate this claim from the others by the omission of the word
"rear," he would have failed to disclose the distinction

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 IT.S.

which he had in mind and permitted the examiner to
pass upon the claim under a misapprehension as to its
language. It was also stated by the District Judge that
at the preliminary hearing on the motion to dismiss, the
I. T. S. Company recognized that this clause in claim 8
read the same as in the other claims; that this had
apparently been its position before other courts where
these claims had been considered'; and that it did not
change its position in this respect until after the Circuit
Court of Appeals on the hearing in that court on the
motion to dismiss had called attention to the omission
of the word "rear."
We concur in the finding of the
District Judge that the omission of the word "rear" was
through a clerical error due to oversight, and that both
the counsel for the applicant and the examiner understood that it was contained in claim 8 as well as the
others; and we are of opinion that the claim should be
construed and have the same effect as if it had been
included. This is not in any real sense, a re-making of
the claim; but is merely giving to it the meaning which
was intended by the applicant and understood by the
examiner.
Furthermore, if by the omission of the word "rear"
this claim should otherwise be regarded as calling for a
lift whose upper face lies entirely below a plane passing
through the entire "upper edge" and the breast corners,
thereby making it a claim for a lift having all its upper
edges in the same plane, such a construction would not
only conflict with the express disclaimer of counsel for
the applicant, but, as held by the Circuit Court of Appeals, render the claim invalid as being for a different
invention from that described in the specification and
drawings of the original patent. Mahn v. Harwood, 112
7Thus in the U. S. Rubber Co. case the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit stated that "each of the claims 5 to 9, inclusive,"
contains the limiting clause referring to "a plane passing through tho
rear upper edge and breast corners."

I. T. S. CO. v. ESSEX CO.
429

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 354, 359; Parker & Whipple Co. v. Yale Lock Co.,
123 U. S. 87, 97. And so construed, it would not read on
the specification and drawings of the re-issued patent.
Having thus reached the conclusion that all of the
claims in suit are limited to the three-point-contact form
of lift, it is unnecessary to determine here whether in
calling for a lift of concavo-convex form on every line of
cross section, any of them are also limited to a "saucershaped," as distinguished from a "scoop-shaped," lift,
that is, to one having in its upper surface a low spot centrally disposed which is below the lowest point in the
breast edge, as has been held by the Circuit Courts of
Appeals for the Sixth and Seventh Circuits.'
It is well settled that where an applicant for a patent
to cover a new combination is compelled by the rejection
of his application by the Patent Office to narrow his claim
by the introduction of a new element, he cannot after the
issue of the patent broaden his claim by dropping the
element which he was compelled to include in order to
secure his patent. Shepard v. Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593,
597. If dissatisfied with the rejection he should pursue
his remedy by appeal; and where, in order to get his
patent, he accepts one with a narrower claim, he is bound
by it. Shepard v. Carrigan,supra, 597; Hubbell v. United
Slates, 179 U. S. 77, 83. Whether the examiner was right
or wrong in rejecting the original claim, the court is
not to inquire. Hubbell v. United States, supra, 83.
The applicant having limited his claim by amendment
and accepted a patent, brings himself within the rules
1Fetzer & Spies Leather Co. v. I. T. S. Rubber Co., 260 Fed. 939,
United States Rubber Co. v. I. T. S. Rubber Co., supra, 950, Tee
Pee Rubber Co. v. I. T. S. Rubber Co., 268 Fed. 250, Hill Rubber
Heel Co. v. I. T. S. Rubber Co., 269 Fed. 270, and I. T. S. Rubber
Co. v. Tee Pee Rubber Co., 288 Fed. 794, in the Sixth Circuit; and
United States Rubber Co. v. I. T. S. Rubber Co., 288 Fed. 786, in the
Seventh Circuit.

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

that if the claim to a combination be restricted to specified elements, all must be regarded as material, and that
limitations imposed by the inventor, especially such as
were introduced into an application after it had been
persistently rejected, must be strictly construed against
the inventor and looked upon as disclaimers. Sargent v.
Hall Safe & Lock Co., 114 U. S. 63, 86; Shepard v. Cgrrigan, supra, 598; Hubbell v. United States, supra, 85.
The patentee is thereafter estopped to claim the benefit
of his rejected claim or such a construction of his amended
claim as would be equivalent thereto. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co., 152 U. S. 425, 529. So
where an applicant whose claim is rejected on reference
to a prior patent, without objection or appeal, voluntarily restricts himself by an amendment of his claim to
a specific structure, having thus narrowed his claim in
order to obtain a patent, he "may not by construction,
or by resort to the doctrine of equivalents, give to the
claim the larger scope which it might have had without
the amendments which amount to a disclaimer." Weber
Elec. Co. v. FreemanElec. Co., 256 U. S. 668, 677.
It results that as the claims in suit were limited by the
proceedings in the Patent Office to the specific form of a
three-point-contact lift, they are not infringed by the
heels made by the Essex Company, which are not threepoint-contact lifts, their upper side edges having no vertical curve and lying entirely in the same horizontal plane
as the rear edge and breast corners. Nor can they be
held to be infringements even if we assume that, as asserted, they function in the same manner as three-pointcontact lifts, and would infringe, as was conceded in the
District Court, if the claims were not restricted by the
limiting clause and were entitled to a construction warranting a wide range of equivalents. By the limitation
of the claims in the Patent Office proceeding to the threepoint-contact lift the patentee made this precise form a

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
429

445

Counsel for Parties.

material element, and having thus narrowed the claims,
cannnot, as was said in the Weber Electric Company
case, now enlarge their scope by a resort to the doctrine
of equivalents. This would render nugatory the specific
limitation.
The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 239.

Argued October 6, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. Military impedimenta were shipped by the War Department by
expedited service over a railroad which was bound by land-grant
acts to transport property of the United States "at rates not
exceeding 50 per cent. of those paid by private shippers for the
same kind of service." The railroad had no tariff for such service
available to the public at large but had filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission a special tariff for the Government, in such
cases, without land-grant deductions. Held, (1) that no contract
of the United States to pay the special tariff rate could be implied
from the fact that the shipments were made when the special tariff
was the only one applicable on file, in the absence of proof that the
contracting officers then knew of that tariff; (2) that, the special
tariff was fied without statutory authority; hence the officers were
not chargeable, as a matter of law, with knowledge of it. P. 447.
2. To recover in the Court of Claims the reasonable value of service
rendered the Government, the claimant must prove its value.
P. 448.
60 Ct. Cls. 662, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (270 U. S.103) to a judgment of the Court
of Claims rejecting the petitioner's claim on account of
transportation service rendered to the United States.

Mr. William R. Harr,with whom Mr. Charles H. Bates
was on the brief, for the petitioner.

