OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

and the innocentj and is not t6 be suffered"by a court,6f
equity.
In so far as the decree of the Court of Appeals agrees
with that' of the District Court it is affirmed; but in
respect of the matter last discussed it is reversed and the
decree of the District Court affirmed in'all particulars.

No. "824,Affirmed.
No. 836, Reversed.

WILLIAM R. WARNER & COMPANY v. ELI LILLY
& COMPANY.
* CERTIORARI TO TH'

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THMID CIRCUIT..

-CIRCUIT

No. 32. Argued April 28, 29, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924:
1. Names which are inerely descriptive of the ingredients, qualities,
or characteristics of an article of trade,-such as the namep "Coco-

Quinine" and "Quin-Coco,"

-

app~lied to a liquid preparation 9f

quinine in combination" with chocolate and other- things--cannot
be appropriated as trademarks. P. 528.
2. The use of a name similar to. that 'lready employed by another,
iruthfully to -describe one's own product, is not a legal or moral
wrong, even if its effect be to cause the public to mistake the
origin or ownership of that product. Id.
3: A firstj.ade and marketed a liquid preparation containing quinine
and other drugs compounded with chocolate to give it color and
flavor and to aid in suspending the quinine.. -B then, using choco'late, produced an article of the same taste and appearance, but sold
cheaper; and to reap A's trade suggested to retail druggists the
fiasibility and economy of passing off the one for the other, when
dispensed out of the bottle; which was done in many and divers
instances.
HeZd: (a) That B wAs guilty of unfair cbfpetition. P. 528.
(b) He who induces another to commit a frhud and furnishes the

means, is equally guilty. P. 530.
(c)When several acts of unfair competition are shown, there is
warrant -for concluding that they will continue, and equity will
afford adequate relief by injunction. P. 531.

'WARNER & CO. v. LILY & CO.
526

•527

Opinion of the Court.

(d) The injunction in this casL- should forbid B and his agents from
directly or indirectly representing or' suggesting to his customers
the feasibility or possibility of passing off B's produc.qt foi As, and
may well- require that his original packages sold to druggists shall
bear labels not only distinguishing B's bottled product from A's,
but also stating affirmatively that B's preparation is not to be sold

or dispensed as As, br be used in filling prescriptions or orders
calling for the latter. P. 531.
(e) But the use by B of chocolate as an ingredient of his preparation

should not be forbidden. Id.
275 Fed. 752, riversed.
Certiorari to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing
on the merits a suit brought by the above named respondent to enjoin the petitioner from continuing'to manufacture a medicinal preparation called Quin-.Coco, if flavored
with chocolate, and from continuing the use of that name.
Mr. George W. Wickersham and Mr. Francis Rawle,
with whom Mr. Roger S. Baldwin and Mr, Joseph W.
Henderson-were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. E. W. Bradford for respondent.
MR. JusTicE SumRm.A=m delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent is a corporation engaged in the'manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical and chemical products"
In 1899 it began and h~s ever since continued to make
.and sell a liquid l'reparation of quinine, in combination
with other substances, including yerba-santa and chocolate, under the name of Coco-Quinine.
Petitioner also is a pharmaceutical and.chemical manu-"
facturer. The PFeiffer Chemical Company, Searle &
Hereth Company and petitioner are under the sanie
ownership and iontrol. The first named company in 1906
*began the manufacture of a liquid preparation which is
substantially the same as respondent's preparation and

* 528OCTOBER TE4M," 1923.
Opini6n of the Court. -

265 U.S-

wvhicl" ws 'pup upon the market. under f he name of QuinCoca. Two -yeks later the .Searle & Ifereth Coimpary
engaged--in.'the manufacture of the prepaiation; which
ever since ias been sold and dist..buted by petitioner.
This Mit was brought in he Feaefal District Court for"
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by respondent to
enjoin petitioner from- cohtinuing to manufacture and
:,sell the preparationif-flaVored or colored with chocolate;
.and also from using the uane OuhC(o; -6the: ground
that it was -an infringemenit of le nai
oco-Qyinie,
to the us6 of which respondent had acuiredali exclusive
right. The District Court decided .against. rspohdent
upon.both grounds. 268 Fed. 156. Qn appel the burt
" of Appeals riled' with the District Coirt uponihe issue
of infringement but reversed the Ideceb upon.that of
unfair competition.

275 Fed. 752.

":"

The entire record is here .and both questions areopen"
for consideration.
First. We agree with the -courts below that the ca rge
of infringement was not sustained. The name Coco-.
Quinine is descriptive of the ingtedients which enter nto
the preparation. The sanie is equally true "of the name
Quin-Coco. A name which -is merely descriptive of the
ingredients, qualities or characteristics of an article of
-trade cannot be- appropriated as a trademark. and the
"exclIsive use of it afforded legal protection. The use of
a similar name by another to truthfully describe.his dw
product doe's not constituteas legal or moral wrong,- even:
if its effect be to cause the public t6 mistake the orighi.
or ownership of the product.- Canal o. v. Clark, 13 Wall.
. 311, 323, 32?; -StandardPaint Co. v. TrinidadAsphalt
Co., 220 U. -S. .446; 453; fRfo~we &ale Co. v. Wy of,
Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 140.
Second. The issue of unfair competition, on which thecourts below differed, presents a question of more -difficulty. The testimony is voluminous, more than t&6

WARNER & CO. v. LILLY & CO.
526

-

529

Opinion of the Court.

hundred witnesses having been examined; but, since -the
question with which We are now dealing.is primarily 6he
of. fact, we have found'it necessary to examine and consider it. - Nothing -is to be gained'by reviewing the evidence at length, and'we shall d6 no more than summarize
the facts upon which we have reached our conclusions.
The use of chocolate as an ingredient Ikas a "three-fold
. effect: It imparts to thd preparation a distinctive coloi
and a distinctive flavor, and, to some extent, operates as
. a medium to suspend the quiine and prevent iW- precipitation." Ithas no therapeutic value; but it supplies
the mixture with a quality of palatability for which there
is no equally satisfactory substitute. Respondent, by
laboratory experiments, first developed the idea of the
addition of chocolate to the preparation for the purpose
of giving. it 'a'characterisic" color and an agreeable' flavor.
There was at the time no liquid preparation of quinmie
on the market containing chocolate, though there is evidence that it was sometimes so made up by druggists
when called for. There is some evidence that petitioner
endeavored by experiments t6 produce a preparation of
the exact color and taste of that produced by respondent;
and there is evidence in contradiction. We do not, how.ever, regard it as important to-determine upon which side
lies the gieater, weight.. -Petitioner, in fact, did prodgce'
a preparation by the use of chocolate so exactly like that
of'respondent that they were incapable, of being distii-

guished by ordinary sight or taste. By*various trade
methods an extensive and valuable .market for the sale of
respoident's preparation already had been established'
when the preparation of petitioner was put on the market.
It is.apparent, from, a consideration of the testimony, that
the efforts of'petitioner to create a market for Quin-Coco
were directed not so mich to showing the merits of that
preparation i they were to demons'tratinj its.practical
identity with' Coco-Quinine, and, since it was sold at a

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1923..
-

Opinion of the Court. .

2651U. S.

lower price, inducing the purchasing druggist, in his own
interest, to substitute, as far as he could, the former for
the latter. In other words, petitioner sought to avail
itself of the favorable repute which had been established
for respondent's preparation in order to sell its own.
.Petitioner's salesmen appeated more anxious to convince
the druggists with whom they Were dealing that QuinCoco was a good" substitute for Cbco-Quinine and was
cheaper, than they were to independently demonstrate its
merits. 'The evidence establishes by a, fair preponderance
that some of petitioner's salesmen suggested that, without
danger of detection, prescriptions and orders*for CocoQuinind could be filled by substituting Quin-Coco. More
often, however, the feasibility of such a course was
brought to the mind of the druggist-by bointing out the
identity of the two preparations and the enhanced profit
to be made by selling Quin-Coco because bf its lower
price. There is much conflict in the testimony; but on
the whole it fairly appears that petitioner's agents induced
the substitution, either in'direct'terms or by suggestion
or insinuation. Sales to druggists are-in original bottles
bearing clearly distinguishing labels and there is no suggestion 6f deception in those transactions; but sales to
the ultimate purchasers are. of the product in its naked
form out of -thebottle; and the testimony discloses many
instances of .Passing off by retail druggists of petitioner's
"preparation when responderit's preparation was called for.
That no deception was practiced on the retail dealers, and
that they knew exactly what they were getting is of no
consequence. The wrong was in designedly enabling the
dealers to palm off the preparation ls that of the respondent. Coca Cola-Co. v. Gay-Ola Co., 200 Fed. 720; N. K.
Fairbanc Co. v. R. W. Bell Manuf'g. Co., 77 Fed. 869,
-875, 877-878; Lever v. Goodwin, L. R. 36 Ch.Div. 1, 3;
Enoch Morgan/s Sons Co. v. Whittier-Coburn Co., 118
Fed, 657, 661. One who induces another to commit a

WARNER & CO. .v. LILLY & CO.
526

531

Opinion of the Court.

fraud and furnishes .the means of consummating it is
equally guilty and liable for the injury. Hostetter Co. v.
Brueggeman-ReineriDfsTling Co., 46 Fed. 188, 189.
The charge of unfair competition being established, it
follows that equity will afford relief b injunction to
prevent such unfair competition for the future. Several
acts of unfair competition having been shown, we 'are
iarranted in concluding that petitioner is willing to continue that course of conduct, unless restrainbd. Hennessy
v. Wine Growers' Ass'n, 212 Fed. 308, 311. It remains
to consider the character and extent of this relief.

Respondent has no exclusive right to the use of its
formula. Chocolate is used as an ingredient not alone
for the purposh of imparting a distinctive color, but for
the purpose also of flaking the preparation peculiarly
agreeable to the palate, to say nothing of its effect as' a.
suspending medium. While it is not a medicinal element
in the preparation, it serves a. substantial and desirable
use, which prevents it from being a mete matter of dress.
It does not merely serve the incidental use of identifying
the respondents preparation, doca Cold, Co. v. Gay-O1
o., supra, p. 724,' and it is, doubtful 'wAether it should
be called a non-essential. The petitioner or anyone else
is at liberty under the law to manufacture and market an
exactly similar preparation contahiing chocolate and to.
notify the public that it' is being done. Saxehner V.
Wagner, 216 U.- S. 375, 380; Chadwick v. Covell, 151.
Mass. 190. But the imitatot of another's goods must sell
them as his own production. He cannot lawfully palm
them off on the public as the goods of his competitor.
The manufacturer or vendor is entitled to.the.reputation
which his goods have acquired and the public to the means
of distinguishing between them and other goods; and protection is acc6fded against unfair dealing whether there
be a technical trademark or not. The wrong is in the
sale of the goods of one manufacturer or vendor ast ose.

532

OCTOBER TERM,-1923.
• Opinion of th6 'Court.

-.

265 U.S.

of another. Elgin Ndtional Watch qo. v. illinois Watch
Case Co., 179 U. S. 665; 674. If petitioner had beencontent to manufacture the preparation and let -it
make
its -own way in te field of bpen and fair competition,
there would be nothing more to be said. It was not thus
c6ntent, however, but ivailed itself of unfair means, either
expressly or tacitly, to impose its preparation on .theultimate purchaser as and for the product of responident.
Nevertheless, the right, to.wlich respondent is entitled
is that of being protected against unfqir competition, not
of having the-aid of a;decrge to create or support, or assist
in creating or supporting, a monopoly of-the sale of 'a
preparatio6 which everyone, .including petitioner, is free
to make and vend. - The"legal wroig doei not consist in
the mere use of chocolate as"an. ingedlent, but in .the
unfair and fraudulent advantage. which .is
taken. of such.
use to pass'off the producf-as-that of respondeit. -The
use dissociated from the feaud is entirely lawful, aid it is
against the fraud that the injunction lies. 'But respondent being'entitled to'relief; is entitled to effective relief;
and any doubt in respect of the extent thereof must be
resolved in its favor, as. the innocent producer and against
the petitioner; which has shown7 by its conduct that it is
not to be trusted. - Clearly, the relief should extend. far"
enough to enjoin petitioner, and its -Various agents, from,
-directly or indirectly, representing or suggesting to its
customers the feasibility or possibility of passing off Quin-

Coco for Coco-Quinine.

.Tue Court of Appeals held that

petitioner should be 'unconditionally enjoined froni-the
use of chocolate. We think this goes too far.; but, having

regard to the. past conduct of petitioner, the-practices of
some druggists to. whichj it has led, and the right - of
respondent to an effective remedy, we think the decree
fairly may require that the original pac.cages sold to druggists .shall not only bear labels clearly distinguishing petitioner's bottled product fiom the bdttled product of

'UNITED STATES v. NEW RIVER CO.
526

33

Statenment of ihe Case.

respondent, but-tht -these labels shall state affirmatively
that the preparxdt6n s .not to be sold or dispensed &3

Coco-Q
0FoE used in Mlilg prescriptions or orders
calling for the .tter. With.these general suggestionso.the
details andi form of the inju cion can be more satisfactorily determined by. the District. Court. The 4ecree of
the Court;of Appeals is reversed and the'ause r~manded
to' the District C6u4 for furter proceedings in con*form* wi this o rpnion

Reversed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMME RCE
COMMISSION v.2NEW RIVER COMPANY ET.AL.

SLAB FORK COAL COMPANY ET AL. t. NEW
RIVER COMPINY ET AL.
APPEALS FROM TEDISTRIC COURT Or TBE UITED STTES
FOR TH SOUTHERN DISTMI.
OF WEST VMGM

Nos. 627 and 628.. Argued April 24, 192.-Decided June

9

1924.

1. An order of the Interstatd Commerce Commsion, in form dismissing a complaint of shippers" but the effect of which was to
Tequire the observahice of a rule of dar"distribution attacked in
the'proceedings as arbitrary, ifegal and- unconstitutiona1, held not
a 'negative" order, (Proctpr & Gamble Cd..y. Unit4 ,States,
225
U. S. 282, distingui4ed,), and,.reviewable. in the District ICourt.
P. 539.
2. The courts cann'ot substitute their judgment for the findi* and
conclusions of th Commission made within the scobe of its power
to regulate tho distribution of coal cars. P.-59..
0..A rule fixing thd number of casm distributable to coal mine in
proportion to the daily capacity*'of aech to produce, held not
arbltrarj' ufireasonable, or violative of due process, as applied to
mines served by more than one carrier. P. 542.

293 Fed. 460, reversed.
APPEAs from a final decree of the District Court enjoinWg, the .enforcement of an ordef of the Interstaf6

Commerce Commission respecting distribution of coal

