310

OCTOBER'TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

uniformity of regulation. Such uniformity, even though
it-be the unif6rmity of governmental nonactibn, may be
highly necessary to preserve equality of opportunity and
treatment among the various communities and States
concerned. See, for example: Welton v. Missouri, 91
U. S.275, 282; Hag v. DeCuir,95 U. S.485, 490.
That some or all of the distributing companies are operating under state or municipal franchises cannot affect
the question. It is enough to say that the Supply Company is not so operating and is not made a patty to these
franchises by merely doing business with the franchise
holders.
No. 155 Affirmed.
No. 188 Reversed.
No. 187 Affirmed.
COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION OF PORT OF
NEW YORK v. GOTTLIEB ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR'THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No . 221. Argued -Apr 15, 16, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924
1. When the plan words of a statute leave no room for construction,
the courts must follow it, however harsh the consequences. P. 313.
2. Section 3 of the Immigration Act of 1917 and § 2(d) of the Quota
Law of 1921, as amended May 11, 1922; are both operative and
should be construed as acts in par!materia. P. 312.
3. Sebtion 3 of the Immigration Act of 1917, after an enumeration
of excluded classes ending with the natives of a designated part of
Asia and those of certain islands adjacent to that continent, declares that "the provision nixt foregoing" shall not apply to persons of various named occupations, including ministers of religion,.
-nor -to their legal wives or their children under 18 years, etc.
Hdd, that the exception applies only to aliens coming from

Asiatie regions referred to. P. 313.
4. Section 2(d) of the Quota Act provides that'when the
*ax
imum
number of aliens of any nationality shall have been admitted,

COMMR. OF IMMIGRATION v. GOTTLIEB. 311
310

Opinion of the Court.

all others of such nationality. applying during the same year

shall be excluded, except (inter alios) ministers of religion, and
gives preference, so far as possible, in the enforcement of the act,
to the wives, children, etc., of citizens of the United States, of
aliens here who have applied for citizens.hip, or of'persons eligible
to citizenship who have served in our military or naval forces.
Held, that the wife and child of a minister haveno right to ad-

mission when the quota allowed "their nationality is exhausted.
P. 313.
285 Fed. 295, reversed. •

Cm RoRm to a judgment-of the Circuit Court of 'Ap-"
peals affirming a judgment of the District Court discharging two aliens by habeas corpus.
Mr. George Ross Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. L-ouis Marshall, with whom Mr. Joseph G. M.
Browne, Mr. Barnet E. Kopelman, Mr. J. Philip Berg
and Mr. Max J. Kohler weie on the briefs; for respondents.

Mit. JusTic, Su

sRxLA=qr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondents are the wife and infant son 6f Solomon Gottlieb, a rabbi of a synagogue in New Yorl! City..They" are natives of Palestine who sought admission t6
this country in December, 1921.
After a hearing before the Board of Special Inquiry at
Ellis Isind, they were ordered deported, on the ground
that.the quota of immigrants entitled to be ad.itted hadalready been fVhed. Ujyoi habeas coipus'pioceedings in
the Federal Court for the Southern District of New York
it was held they were entitled to admission, irresleetive
of quota limitations, as the wife and child of a minister,
who was already here under § 2 (d) of the Act of May 19,
1921, c. 8, 42 Stat. 5, as amended May 11, 1922, c. 187, 42

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

Stat. 540. Thereupon they were ordered discharged.
-This judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
285 Fed. 295.
That court reached its conclusion by considering §3.
of the Act of 1917, c. 29, 39 Stat. 874, 875, in pari materia
with § 2 (d) of the Act of 1921. Section 3 of the earlier
act enumerates various classes of aliens who are excluded
from admission into the United States, among them all.
persons from certain Asiatic territory with specified exceptions. The Act of 1921, as. amended, is an act to
liniit the number of aliens who may be admitted under
the immigration laws to the United States, and is declared to be "in addition to and not in substitution for
the'provisions of the immigration laws." §'4. Section
2 (d), among other things, provides that when the maximum number of aliens of any nationality shall have been
admitted, all others of such nationality applying during
the same year shall be excluded, except as otherwise provided -in the act. Following this, one of the provisos
enumerates the aliens who are thus excepted, among
them, ministers of any religious denomination. Another
proviso is: "That in the enforcement of this Act preference shall be given so far as.possible to the wives, parents, brothers, sisters, children under eighteen years of
age, and fianc6es, (1) of citizens of the United States, (2)
of aliens now in tie United States who have applied, for
.citizenship in the manner provided by law, or (3) of
persons eligible to United States citizenship -who served
inthe military or naval forces of the United States," etc.
The court below, takdng these various provisions together, held that under § 3 of the Act of .1917, these.
respondents were entitled to admission. The lower court was right inholding that the acts are
Oz par! materia, and that § 3 of the. earlier act is still
"fully operatbiie and may be considered as though it
formed -a Iart, of .the later iet. The question then is

COMMR. OF IMMIGRATION v. GOTTLIEB. 313
310

Opinion of the Court.

whether it includes aliens occupying the status of these
respondents. The case, as the evidence shows, is one of
peculiar and distressing hardship and it is not unnatural
that any .appropriate canon of construction should be
laid hold of to justify a conclusion favorable to the respondents. But if the plain words of the statute -are
against such a conclusion, leaving no room for construction, the courts have no choice but to follow it, without
regard to the consequences. Chung Fobk v. White, 264
U. S. 443; Zartariamv. Billings, 204 U. S. 170; Low Wah
Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460, 476. Section 3 of the Act
of 1917 defines and enumerates th6 classes of aliens who
are to be excluded-idiots, imbeciles, feeble-minded persons, paupers, professional beggars, diseased, persons,
criminals, polygamists, anarchists, prostitutes; and numerous others, the last in the enumeration being natives
of islands not possessed by the United States adjacent
"to the continent of Asia and of the continent within certain desbribed limits of latitude and longitude. The
clause relied upon immediately follows: "The provision
next foregoing, however, shall not apply to persons of the
following status or occupations: Government officers,
ministers or religious teachers, missionaries, lawyers,
physicians, chemists, civil engineers, teachers, students,
authors, artists, merchants, and travelers for curiosity or
pleasure, nor to their legal wi.tves or their children.under
sixteen years'of age who shall accompany them or who
subsequently may apply for admission 'to the United
States.
The limited scope of this exception is apparent and no
amount of discussion could make it plainer. It applies
to "the provision next foregoing," namely, to that dealing wit.. aliens coming from the barred Asiatic zone, and
to that only.
Section 2 (d) of the Quota Law of 1921, as amended, in
-terms, permits the admission of " aliens returning from a

.314

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

temporary visit abroad, aliens who are professional actors,
artists, lecturers, singers, nurses, mini.sters of any religious
"denomination, professors for colleges :or seminaries,
*aliens belonging to any recognized learned profession, or
aliens employed as domestic servants," notwithstanding
the quota of the same nationality has been filled. Then
follows the further prdviso already quoted that i the enforcement of the act "preference shall be given so far as
possible to the wives

. . . children," etc., of certain

enumerated classes.
The respondents are not natives of -te barred Asiatic
zone and, therefore, are not entitled to admission under
the-exception in the Act of 191. There is nothing in the
later Act of 1921, as amended, which gives the wife or
children of a miniter any right of entry beyond that enjoyed by aliens generally, unless he falls within one of the
classes specified in the proviso to §.2 (d), in which event
"they are to be given preference over. other aliens within
the limits of the quota. The quota having been exhausted, no case was presented calling for the applicatioh
of the proviso, even if the respondents could otherwise
have been brought within its terms. The contention that
it is absurd and unreasonable to say that the wives and
children of ministers from the barred Asiatic zone are to
be admitted and those outside of it denied admission, does
not require consideration, since the result we have stated
necessarily follows from the plain words of the law, for
which we are not at liberty to substitute a rule based upon
other notions of policy or justice. That aliens from one
part of the world shall be admitted according to their.
status and those from another part according to fixed
numerical proportions, is a matter wholly within the discretion of the lawmaking body, with which the courts
have no authority to interfere.
Reversed

