BURNES NATL. BANK v. DUNCAN.

17

Statement of the Case.

14

the implicated board for which there is any. evidence,
always easily produced. We are of opinion that there is
jurifiction in equity over the case stated by the bill and
that therefore the Judges "should dispose of the application for a temporary injunction on the merits and otherwise proceed with the suit in regular course." Union
Pacino R. R. Co. v. Weld County, 247 U. S. 282, 287.
'Decreesreversed.
STATE OF MISSOURI AT THE RELATION OF THE
BURNES NATIONAL BANK OF ST. JOSEPH v.
DUNCAN, JUDGE OF THE PROBATE COURT OF

BUCHANAN COUNTY, MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME. COURT OF TBM STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 762. Argued April 11, 1924.-Decided April 28, 1924.
1. The Act of September 26, 1918, c. 177, § 2, 40 Stat. 967, amending
§ 11(k) .of the Federal Reserve Act, authorizes a national bank
having the permit of the Federal Reserve Board, to act as executor,
if trust companies competing with it have that power by the law of
the State in which the bank is lobated, whether the exercise of
such power by the national bank is contrary to the state law or.
not. P. 23.
2. The power of Congress to grant such accessory functions to
national banks, to sustain them in the competition of the bankdng
business, cannot be controlled by state laws. First NationdBank
v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416. P. 24.
3. The authoritj given by the dct is independent of regulations
adopted by the State to secure the trust funds in the hands of its
,trust companies. Id.

302 Mo. 130, reversed.
ERoR
to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri
which denied the bank's application for a writ of mandamtis to compel a probate court to issue to it letters
testamentary, it having been appointed executor by a will.

18

OCTOBF

TERM, 1923.

Argument for'Plaintiff in Error.

265 U. S.

Mr. Justin D. Bowersock, with whom Mr. John C.'
Lands,-Jr.,Mr. William T. Jones, Mr. Henry L. Mcune,
Mr. Armwell L. Cooper,Mr.L P. Ryland and Mr. Samuel
McReynolds were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
I. When Congress enters any field over which it is
given jurisdiction by the Constitution, it . appropriates
that field to the fullest extent necessary to insure the
complete exercise of its sovereignty. Its enactments are
the supreme law of the land, paramount to any state law
or authority. McCulloch. v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316;
NorthernPac.Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135;
Smith v. Alabama, 124 'U. S. 465; Mondo v. N. Y.,
AT. H. &H. R. B. o., 223 U. S. 1.
I. Congress has jurisdiction to establish and regulate
national banks, and its action in that regard, if constitutional, is entirely independent of and superior to all state
laws. McCullock v. Maryland, supra; Osborm v. Bank,
9 Wheat. 738; D.avis v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S.
275; Farmers' & .Mechanic'.Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S.
29; Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S.220; Van Reed v. People's
NationalBaidk, 198 U. S. 554.
I. The act of Congress granting trust powers to
national banks is constitutional and such power cannot,
therefore, be nullified, impeded, burdened or controlled
by state law or authority, except as permitted by Congress. .First National Bank v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416.
. IV. Such powers have been granted to relator
in so far
as they are not in contravention-of state-or local law, and
the pow'er to act as executor (included therein) is not in
contravention of the laws of-Missouri.
1. This is a federal and not a state question. Congress
has here provided for the exercise of certain -functions
"whdn not in contravention of state or local law" and
has laid down certain conifitions under whichl it "shall not
be deemed to be in contravention of state or local law
within the meaning of this Act." Manifestly, the funda-

B1URNaES NATL. BANK v. DUNCAN.
17

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

mental question is what intention Congress expressed by'
the language of the act. The law of the State enters into,
consideration only incidentally as affecting that expressed
intention. It might well be that an act would; as a mere
question of state law, contravene such law, and yet not
do so within the meaning of the act of Congress.
If this were not true, a State might enact a law ex-•
pressly forbidding national banks to act as executor, andthe State Supreme Court might hold that the exercise of
such power was therefore in contravention of state law.
See Andrew&v. Hovey, 124 U. S. 694; The J. E. Rumbell,
148 U. S. 1; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34.
2. Even aside from the provisions of the amendment of
September 26, 1918, there is no law in Missouri inconsistent with the appointment of a national bank as
executor.
3. The question is, however, forclosed in Missouri by
the amendment to the Federal Reserve Act, enacted September 26, 1918. In re Mollineaux, 179. N. Y. S. 90;
Estate of Stanchfield, 171 Wis. 553; Hamilton, v. State,
94 Conn. 648; Turner's Estate, 277 Pa. St. 110; Fdelfty
National Bnk, & Trust Co. v. Enright, 264 Fed. 236;
Fellowsv. FirstNationalBank,, 192 Mich. 640.
4. The amendment of 1918 is more than a mere definition of terms. In effect it is a, legislative declaration and
clarification of the law as laid down in the original enactment.
5. The question for determination is reduced to this:
Do the laws of Missouri authorize or permit the exercise.
of trust powers, including the power'fo act as executor,
by stats banks, trust companies or other corporations
which compete with -national banks? This question is
answered in the a.rmative by the statutes of the State.
V. Cases distinguished: People v., Brady, 271111. 100;
of. People v. Russel, 283 Il1. 520; Appeal of Woodbury,
78 N. H. 50; Aqtidneck National BanL-v. Jennings, 44
R. I. 435.

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

265 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with, whom Mr. Walter
'Wyatt and Mr. Edgar W. Freeman were on the brief, for
the United States, as amicus curiae,.by secial leave of
Court.
By the Act of September 26, 1918, Conigress declares
that national banks may exercise trust powers if such
exercise is not in contravention of state laws; but it goes
further and 'provides in unmistakable language that the
exercise of trust powers by national banks shall not be
deemed in contravention of.the laws of a State within the
meaning of the act if the laws of such State permit the
exercise of those powers by state corporations which
compete with national banks.
Under this. act, if state corporations which compete
with niational banks'may act in a fitfciary capacity,
national banks may do go.
Neither a state legislatue nor the state courts may
place national banks in a class by themselves and decide
whether. or not they shall be permitted to act in a
fiduciary capacity.
So interpreted, the act, of, Congress is constitutional.
The exercise of trust powers is reasonably incidental to
the operation of a national bank. First National Bank
v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416. When a State creates competitors of national banks it thereby engenders in Congress an implied authority to protect those banks by
empowering them to meet their competitors on an equal
footing. Under such circumstances, Coigress may constitutionally authorize national banks'to act in a fiduciary
capacity. Fellows Case, supra. An attempt by a State
to define the duties 6f national banks ot to control the
conduct of their affairs is absolutely' void wherever such
attempted 'exercise of authority expressly conflicts with
the laws of the United States and either frustrates the
purpose of the national legislation or impairs the efficiency
of these agencies of the Federal Government to discharge'

BURNES NATL. BANK v. DUNCAN.*
17

21

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the duties for which their were created. Davis v. Elmira
Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275 283; McClellanv. Chipman,
164 U. S. 347; First National Bank. v. Missouri, 263
U. S. 640.Missouri trust companies are authorized to exercise
wide trust powers and engage in the banking activities
which are the usual and characteristiib functions of commercial banks, such as national banks. Section 11799 of
the Banking Laws of Missouri (Revision of 1919); Denny
v. Jefferson,County, 272.Mo. 436. Thus they inevitably
come into competition with the national banks in -that
State.
Mr. Morton Jourdan and Mr. Charles H. Mayer,-for
defendant in error, submitted.
That an act of Congress, within the field covered by
its constitutional power, is-the supreme law of te land;
that Congress has complete constitutional power to establish and regulate national banks., and that the act of
Congress granting trust powers to national banks is onstitutional and cannot be nullified or controlled by the
States, are three propositions contended for by the plaintiff in error, which are conceded by the defendant in error.
The Missouri Supreme Court committed no error in
holding that the exercise of the office of executor,, here
sought to be exercised, would be in contravention of the
state law.
The power to regulate descents and distributiofis and
the devolution of estates is exclusively within the State.
Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U. S. 714.
Executors and administrators are instruments through
which the States regulate and control descenti, distributions and the devolution of estates, and therefore, it seems
to us, the State must have the right to determine what
instruments may be used, without contravening the state
law. FirstNational Bank.v. Felloos, 244 U.S. 416.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

The ainendment to § 11(k) of the Federal Reserve Act
was not intended to and did not deprive the States of
this right.
Inasmuch as the act, before and after amendment,
conferred no power directly upon national banks, but conferred a mere administrative power upon the Feder'al Reserve Board, it would seem that the second paragraph of
the amendment was intended as an interpretation of the
act for the benefit of the Federal Reserve Board, and was
not intended to render meaningless and to destroy one of
the principal provisions of the original act, which provision was retained in the act as amended.
Unless the claiise" when not in contravention of state
law" is to be held to be meaningless, then the Missouri
Supreme Court had the duty and the right of determining
whether or not the appointment of a national bank as
executor in Misouri -was in contravention of state law;
and, therefore, the Court committed no error in declining
to issue its mandmnus. First ational Bank v. Fellows,.
244 U. S. 416; People v. Brady, 271 InI. 100; Appeal of
Woodbury, 78 N. H. 50; First National Bank v. Migsouri, 263 U. S. 640; Aquidneck National Bank v. Jennings, 44 R. I. 435.
MR.

JUSTICE

HoL

s delivered the opinion- of the

Court.
The relator, the Burnes National Bank of St. Joseph,
was appointed executor by a citizen of Missouri who died
on November 27, 1922, leaving a will. The Bank.applied
to the proper Probate Court for letters testamentary, but
was denied appointment on the ground that by the laws
of Missouri national banks were not authorized to act as
executors. Thereupon it applied to the Supreme Court of
the State for a writ of mandamus to th Judge of the Probate Court and an alternative writ was issued. The respondefit, demurred, the demurrer was sustained and the

BURNES NATL. BANK v.DUNCAN.
17

.23

Opinion of the Court.

peremptory writ -was denied. '302 Mo. 130. A writ of
error was allowed by the Chief Justice of the State Court.
The Bank claims the capacity .o fill he office under the.
statutes of the United States.'
By the Act of September 26, 1918, c. 177, § 2, 40 Stat.
967, 968, amending § 11(k) of the Federal Reserve Act,
the Federal Reserve Board was empowered " T o graait by
special permit to national banks applying therefor, when
not in contravention of.State or local law, .the right to
.
.
or in
act as' trustee, executor, -administrator
any other fiducibxy capacity in which qfi'; banks, trust
companies, or other torporations which come into competition with iiational banks are permitted to act under
the laws of the State in which the national bank is located." If the section stopped there the decision of the
State Court might be final, but it adds the following paragraph, "Whenever the lais of such State authorize or
permit the exercise of any or all of the foregoing.powers.
by State banks, trust companies, or other corporations
which compete with national banks, the granting to and
the exercise of such powers by national banks shall hot be
deemed to be iii contravention of State orlocal law within
the meaning of this Act." This says in a. roundabout and
polite but unmistakable. way that whatever may. be the
state law, national banks having the permit of thet Federal Reserve Board may act as executors'if trust: companies compsting wih them have that power. The relaJtor
has the permit, competing trust c6mpanies can act as
executors in Missburi, the importance of the power.to the
sudaining of competition in the banking business is so
well linown and has been explained so filly heretofore
that it does not need to be emphasized, and thus the naked
question 'presented is whether Congress had. the -power
to do what it 'tried to.do.
The question is pretty .nearly answered by the decision
and fully answered by the reasoning in First NationaZ

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

Bank of Bay City v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416. That case was
decided before the amendment to, the Federal Reserve Act
that we have quoted and came here on the single issue of
the power of Congress when the state law was not contravened. It was held that the power "was to be tested by
the right to create the bank and the authority -to attach
to it that which was relevant in the judgment of Congress
to make the business of the bank successful." 244 U. S.
420. The power was asserted and it was added ihat "this
excluded the power of the State in such case, although it
might possess in a general sense authority to regulate
such business, to use that authority to prohibit such business from being united by Congress with the banking
function." 244 U. S. 425. Now that Congress has expressed its paramount will this language is more apposite
than ever. The States cannot use their most characteristic
powers to reach unconstitutional results. Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. Pullman Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 56. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Foster,247 U. S. 105,.114. There is nothing over which a
State has more exclusive authority than the jurisdiction
of its courts, but it cannot escape its constitutional obligations by the device of denying jurisdiction to courts
otherwise competent. Kenney v. Supreme Lodge of the
World, 252 U. S. 411, 415. So here-the State cannot lay
hold of its general control of administration to deprive
hational banks of their power to compete that Congress
is authorized to sustan.
The fact that Missouri has regulations to secure the
safety of trust funds iii the hands of its trust companies
does not affect the case. The power given by the act of
Congress purports to be general and independent of that
circumstance and the act provides its own safeguards.
-The authority of Congress is equally independent, as
otherwise the State could make it nugatory. Since the
decision in First Nationd Baink of Bay City v. Fellows;

BURNES NATM. B3ANK v. DUNCAN.
17

SuTHERLAm

and McRLYNoms, JJ., dissenting.

244 U. S. 416, it generally has been recognized that the
law now is as the relator contends. Turner's Estate, 277
Pa. St. 110, 116. Estate of Stanchfield, 171 .Wis.553.
Hamilton,v. State, 94 Conn. 648. People v. Rusel, 283
Ill. 520, 524. In-re Mollineaux, 179 N. Y. S. 90. Fidelity
NationalBank & Trust Co. v. Enright, 2.64-Fed. 236.
Juagment reversed.
AM. JUSTIMC

SuTHRzb',

dissenting.

The real -question here; as I understand it, is not
whether Congress may .seguard national banks agtdnst
ordinary state legislation of a discriminative character;
but whether Congress may intrude upon and prohibit the
exercise of the governmental powers of a State to the
extent that such exercise discriminates against such banks
in favor of competing state corporations. The authority
of the Fellows Case, I think, is pressed too far. The
statute there under review simply.made national ban
competent to act as executors, etc., "when not in contravention of State or-local law." The statute did'not attempt to overrid6 the will of the State in that respect, but
expressly recognized its control and authority. The State
Supreme Court conceded that the powers thus conditionally conferred by the federal statute, in fact, woul not
be'in contraventi6n of the .state law, but held that. Congress was without constitutional authority,, because the
functions sought to be given to such banks were subjects.
-of state regulation. That view of the matter -was re-,
jected; but, putting aside .some expressions not necessary
to the decision- I do not think the case can be regarded
as authority for the conclusion apparently now reached:
that Congress may so limit the power of a State, against
its expresslj- declared will to the contrary, that it may
confer the right to ict as executors and administratoim
upon state, corporations which compete with national
banks, only upon condition that the same right be con-

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
SnTERLnvD and McP~zb

ois,JJ., dissenting. 265 U.S.

ferred upon the latter. Certainly, that precise -question
was not -there presented for decision.
It is fundamental, under our dual system of government, that theNati6n and the State are supreme and independent, each within its own sphere of actici; and that
each is exempt from the interference or control of the
other in- respect, of its governmental powers, and the
means employed id their exercise. Bank of Commerce v.
New York City, 2 Black, 620, 634; South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U.- S. 437, 452, et seq.; Farrningtonv.
Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, 685. "How their respective
laws shall-be enacted; how they shall be carried into
execution; and in.what tribufials, or by what officers;
and how much discretion, or whether .any at all shall be
vested in their officers, are matters subject to their own
control, and in the regulation of which neither can interfere with the other." Tarble's Case, 13 Wall.397; 407-8.
-Except as otherwise provided by the Constitution, the
sovereignty of the States "can be no more invaded by the
action of.the general. government, than the action of the
state goveinments can arrest or obstruct the cburse of the.
national iower." Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 570.
In Bank of Commerce v. New York City, supra,
pp. 633-4, a tax case, this Court said: "That government
whose powers, executive, legislative or judicial ... are
subject- to the control of another distinct Government,
cannot be sovereign or supreme, but subordinate aiid
inferior to the other. This is so palpable a truth that
argument-would be superfluous. * Its functions and means
essential .to the administration of the Government, and
the. employment of them, are liable to constant inter-.
and possible annihilation. . . . But df what
avail is the function or the means if another Government
may ta it at discretion? .it
is apparent that the power,
function, or means, however important and vital, are at
the mercy of that Government. And it must be always

-ruption

BURNES NATL. BANK v. DUNCAN.
17

SuTnmuAND and

27

McREows, JJ., disenting..

remembered, if the right to impose a tax at all exists on
the part of the other Government, 'it is a right which in
its nature -acknowledges no limits.' And the principle is
equally true ;. respect to every other power or function

of a Goveriment subject to the control of another."
It is settled beyond controversy, that the right of a
State to pass laws, to administer them throig courts of
justice, and to employ agencies for the legitimate purposes.
of state government cannot be taxed, .Veazie Bank v.
Fenno,.8 Wall.- 533, 547; and that rule is but an applieation .of the general and broader nile, which forbids any
interference by the federal government .ith the governmental powers bf a State. The settlem~ht of successions
to property on death is a subject withini the exclusive
control of the States and entirely beyond the sphere of
national authority. See Tilt v. Kelse,. 207 U. S. 43,
55-6; Plummer v. (oler, 178 U. S.115, 137. Upon the
death of the owner his property passes under the controlof the State and remains there until all just charges
against it can be determined and pai&'and those who are
entitled to become its new owners can be .ascertained.
The.duty; and -power of the State to provide a tribunal
for the accomplishment of these ends, Tilt v. Kelsey,
mpra, itfollows, cannot be abridged by federal legislation.
The right of the owner to. direct the descent Sf his
property by will or permit it under statute, as well as the
right of a legatee, devisee or heir to receive the property;
are rights exclusively derived from and regulated by the
State. Plummer v. Coler, mupra, .p. 137. During the
process of administration the estate,.in contemplation of
law, is in. the custody of the court exercisig probate

powers, and of this court the executor or-administrator is
an officer. Yonley v. Lavender, 21 Wall.276, 280. "An'
administrator appointed by a state court is an officer of
that court; his possession of-the decbdent's property is a.
possession taken in obedience, to the orders of that court;

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
SuTmAxD

and McRExoms, JJ., dissenting. 265 U. S.

it is the possession of the court.

.

.!' Byers v. Me-

.Auley, 149 'U. S. 608, 615.
In the present case the state legislature, as conclusively
determined by the State Supreme Court, has excluded
not only national banks but state banks from assmning
.the functions'of executors and administrators, which functions, for reasons satisfactory to itself, it has allowed
trust companies to exercise. This determination of the
State to grant the right to one and not the other, when it
might have excluded both, is plainly the assertion of a
governmental policy upon a,matter within its 6xclusive

control, with which the federal governnent has no authority to meddle. Congress may, of course, confer upon
national banks the capacity to act as administrators and
executbrs, but I do not think it is within the constitu•tional authority of that body to make such legislation
binding upon the State against 'its will. The decision justrendered perhaps does not go that far; but it does iphold
the power of Congress to impose its will upon the State ii
this respect if the State, in the exercise of its exclusive
authority ov@r the devolition of estates of deceased
persons, permits any coiporation which competes with
-national banks to exercise the powers mentioned. This
.contingendy seems to me a sleiider distinction upon which
to found a denial 6f the State's power. :t may be crnoceded that a State is precluded from 'enforcing legislation
which discriminates against national banks, in: respect -of
private banking or business operations; but a very different.situation is presented when the discrimination arises
in respect of the governmental operations of the State.
A State, for example, cannot be sued in its own courts
without its consent; but is it powerless to consent to such
suits by financial corporations of its own creation except
upon condition that it extends a similar privilege to competing national banks? Legislation requiring all residents of a State to deposit their funds only in state insti-

BURNES NATL. BANK v. DUNCAN.
17

SuTHEL&wD and McRErNoms,

29

33., dissenting.

tutions would undoubtedly be bad against federal
legislation to the contrary; but is it beyond the power of
the state legislature t6 subject public moneys--state,.
county or mufficipal-to such a restriction? A State
may not unconditionally require private debts to be paid
only in gold and silver; but, in the exercise of its sovereign power of taxation, it may limit the payment of
taxes to gold and silver, if it sees fit, in spite of a federal
law making currency a legal tender, and, as this Court
has said: "It is not easy to see upon what principle the
national legislature can interfere with the exercise . . .
of this power." Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 77.
In my opinion; the exercise of the powers conferred 'upon
trust companies by the legislation here under review, is
governmental in its nature; and the fact that the statute
discriminates in that matter against national banks (as,
also, it does against state banks) is a negligible in6ident,
which does not affect the validity of the statutory limitation.
The probate courts of a State have only such powers as
the state legislature gives them. They are wholly beyond
the jurisdiction of Congress, and it does not seem to me
to be within the competency bf that body, on any pretext,
to compel such courts to appoint as executor or administrator one who the state law has declared shall not be
appointed.
The particular invasion here sanctioned may not be
of great moment; but it.is a precedent, which, if carried
'to the logical extreme, would go far toward reducing the
States of the Union to the status of mere geographical
subdivisions. The cage is one, to use the phrase of Mr.
Justice Brbwer in Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S.
283, 291-2, for the application of the maxim, absta
prindpiis, not de minimis non curat lex.
I ara authorized to say that MR. JusTcE McRpy
concurs in this dissent.

oL.s

