298

OCTOBER TERM, 1923
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.

STATE OF MISSOURI ON THE RELATION OF
BARRETT, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL. v.
KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TME DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY v. STATE OF
KANSAS ON THE RELATION OF HELM, AT"TORNEY FOR THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TH

STATE OF KANSAS.

STATE OF KANSAS ON THE RELATION OF JACKSON, ATTORNEY FOR THE PUBLIC UTILITIES
COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF KANSAS, ETC.
v. CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK
* ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THU UNITED STATES
FOR T1E DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

Nos. 155, 133 and 137. Argued April 21, 1924.-Decided May 26,
1924.
1. The business of piping natural gas from one State to another and
seilig it, not to consumers, but.to independent distributing companies which sell it locally to the consumers, is interstate commerce free from state interference. Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Sirvice Comm., 252 U. S. 23, distinguished. P. 307.
2. An attempt of a State to fix the rates chargeable in this interstate business is a direct burden on interstate commerce, even in
the absence of any regulation of it by Congress. P. 308.
282 Fed. 841, (No. 155) affirmed.
111 Kans. 809, (No. 133) reversed.
282 Fed. 680, (No. 137) affirmed.
IN the first of these cases the appellants sought to
enjoin the Kansas Natural Gas Company from increasing

MISSOURI v. KANSAS GAS CO.
298

299

Argument for Appe~lants in No. 155.

its rates in Missouri without the- consent of the Pfiblic
Utilities Commission of that State. The decree of the
Disirict Court refusing the injunction is here affirmed.
In the second case the Kans -, Supreme Court allowed
a peremptory mandamus to compel the same company
to regstablish and maintain certain rates in Kansas until
otherwise ordered by the Utilities Commission of that
State. Reversed.
The third case was a suit in the federal court in Kansas
to enjoin collection by the same corhpany of increased
ratei in Kansas until allowed by the Kansas Utilities
Commission. The injunction was denied. Affirmed.
Mr. 3. W. Danaand Mr. Frank E. Atwood, with whom
Mr. L. H. Breuer was on the brief, for appellants in
No. 155.
I. The public welfare requires that the Kansas Natural
Gas Company be regulated.
I. The Kansas Natural' Gas Company is a public
utility at common law. German, Alliance Ins. Co. v.
Kansas, 233 U. S. 389.; Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District
of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252; San Joaquin. Co. v. Stanislaus County, 233 U. S.454.
III. 'The Kansas Natural Gas Company is declared by
statutes to'be a public utility.
IV. Interstate commerce in natural gas is local in its
nature, is peculiarly of local concern, makes provision for
local needs, pertains to local public service, and is subject
to reasonable state regulation.
The record shows that the Supply Company has a complete monopoly of the supply of natural gas to some forty
cities, towns and villages in Eastern Kansas and Western
Missouri, and serves, one-half million people; that the
distributing companies have no other source of supply
of natural gas; that the primary undertaking and duty
of the Supply Company is to furnish natural gas. It is

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants in No. 155.

265 U. S.

immaterial where that gas comes from. The duty, bottomed on the original supply-contracts maintained by
"the Receivers while the business was in cuswtodia legis and
continued by the Supply Companj since, was to furnish
natural gas. The furnishing is local to the Kansas City
Gas -Company and other distributing companies and at
Kansas City and some forty other cities and communities
served. It is for the inhabitants of the cities served as
distinguished from the public at rarge. It "makes piovision for local needs" by undertaking the supply of gas
provided for i'n local natural gas franchise ordinances,
granted to distributing companies; and' "pertains to a
local public service." It is delivered to and through the
instrumentality of local licensed agencies, public service
companies of the States.
This natural gas is so peculiarly local in its nature and
restricted in its uses and method of handling, that it can
liot be reconsigned and transp6rted on past the points of
delivery to some other rharket but must be sold and consumed, if at all; in a comparatively restricted area.
Permanent physical connections are made and must be.
maintained between the plant and pipe line system of the
Supply Company and the public service companies
served.
Local measuring stations and meters are and must be
maintained and operated at or within the town borders of
the cities served, where the gas is continuously delivered
and sold by the Supply Company to meet the consumers'
instantaneous demands upon the distributing companies.
The Supply Company occupies the public highways of
the States and exercises the power of eminent domain,
and occupies the public streets at the point of deliveryr
with the license or acquiescence of the cities, towns and
villages served.
There are no advance'orders for natural gas but it is delivered "instanter" as required by the customers, singly

MISSOURI v. KANSAS GAS CO.
298

• 301

Argument for Appellants in No. 155..

and in aggregate. The Supply Company offers service
to all consumers, distributing companies, cities and towns
on its lines who apply.
It has and makes no pecial contracts with any consumer or distributing.company. Its original gas-suppl§contracts were at its own suit annulled and set aside as
to rates, but the service established under those contracts
continues in full force and effect and it accepts the benefits and fruits of thai business. It furnishes and sells natural gas not under private negotiation and contract, but
upon promulgated and published schedules of uniform
rates.
The foregoing facts of record clearly bring this case
within the class of cases local in their nature and subject
to state regulation as laid down in PennsylvaniaGas Co.
v. PublicService Comm., 252 U. S. 23.
The character and classification of commerce, whether
interstate or intrastate, national or local, is not determined or affected by the changeof carriers. Texas &
New Orleans R. R. Co,. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S.
111; South Covington Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S.
537; Atchison, etc. By. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371.
It is equally well settled that such classification of
commerce is not determined upon the basis of ownership"
or change of title of the commodity in transit. Suft &
Co. v. United States, 19Q U. S. 375; Gulf, etc. Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Atchison, etc. Ry. Co. v. Harold,
supra. See particularly North Carolina Pub.* Serv.
Comm. v. Southern Power Co.; 282 Fed. 837.
There is a line of analogous liquor cases vhich establish the principle that before the Supply Company can
.successfully claim that the business of furnishing and
selling natural gas shipped interstate is free fromi state
control, it must show thai sales take place or are confirmed or consummated in the foreign State, and that it
is not locally selling and locally delivering .gas to meet

302

OCTOBER TERIM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants in No. 155.

265 U.S.

the immediate, instantaneous, simultaneous and indiscriminate demands of its customers or its cudomers'
customers. Heyman' v. Hays, 236 U. S. 178; In re
Rahrdr, 140 U. S. 545; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228
U. S. 115.
The Supply Company's business is not capable of one
uniform system of regulation. State v. Flannelly, 96Kans. 372; Manuifacturers"Light & Heat Co. v. Ott, 215
Fed. 940; Jamieson v. Indiana Natural Gas Co., 128
Ind. 555; Mill Creek Coal Co. v. Public Service Comm.,
84 W. Va. 662.
The fixing of natural gas rates is the fixing of commodity rates-selling rates of a commodity locally. It
must of necessity vary in each city served, depending
upon the volume of business done, th6 character and
classification of consumers and numerous other factors
entering into and reflected in commodity prices. Transportation is a mere incident. Mill Creek Cqal C. v.
Public Servkce Comm., supra,

The maintenance of the Supply Company's supply of.
gas within the city its pipe lines in and-upon the city's
streets and its meters within or near the city, .ontinu-.
ously ready to serve, constitutes an implied standing
offer to deliver, measure and sell locally at reasonableand authorized rates; the turning of the consumers'
burner cocks and the drawing of the gas from the mains
of the'distributing eonipany, and in turn the delivery,of
the gas by. the Supply Company into.the mains of the
distributing company, constitutes an acceptance of that
offer and an implied promise to pay a reasonable or.-authorized city gafes' rate. These entire transactions are
purely local.
V. The specific exclusion of interstate conmierce innatural gas from the Interstate Commerce Act, implies
regulation by the States until Congress acts.
V. An importer who* eniploys a licensed agency of
the State, a public, utility, to sell and market products

MISSOURI v. KANSAS GAS CO.
298

303

Argument for Appellants in No. 155.

shipped interstate, thereby consents to reasonable state
regulation.
The Supply Company is and ever wil be under the
necessity of using and employing licensed agencies of the
States, public utilities having franchises, to market its imports. Such an importer is not engaged in -interstate
commerce of a national character, but is engaged in local
trade and traffic subject to state regulation. Brown v.
Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, 443.
The furnishing of gas to the inhabitants of the city is
a state function kindred to building roads and paving
streets over which the State alone has control. Pe-insylvania R. R. (Co.v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618.
The reductio ad absurdum of the Supply Company's
claim is, that its right to import gas carries with it the unrestricted right not only to raise and lower its rates but,
at its own will and caprice, to supply or refuse to supply
gas, and to change its quality, and quantity and its service as t6 some forty public service corporations and forty
or inore cities; towns and villages, and one-half million
people; for, if the State has no power to regulate the
rates, it has none to regulate the quality or character of
service or to determine the uie of gas, o'r to exclude such
use altogether.
VII. The decision in Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon,
249 U. S. 236, turned on the point that the Receiver had
*no.cause of action for the reason that his rates were at
that time consent rates, or fixed by contract, and the challenged rates, then before this Court, were made for distributing companies and not for the Receiver. It is no
authority for the contention that the Kansas Natural Gas
Company was then or is at this time, on the record now
before this Court, free from state regulation.
VIII. A public utility, or one conducting a business affected with the public interest, may not arbitrarily dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendant in Error in No. 183.

265 U. S.

continue service for the non-payment of a controverted
bill. Injunction will issue to prevent such wrongful act.
IX. If the Kansas Natural Gas Company's rates are
not subject to regulation, it is bound by contract, express
and implied; first, to continue service until, after notice,
a substitute can be provided; and second, at rates agreed
upon.
Mr. Robert D. Garver, with whom Mr. Herbert 0.
Caster and Mr. Richard .Higgbiswere on the briefs, for
the Kansas Natural Gas Company, appellee in Nos. 155
and 137, and plaintiff in error in No.o133.
Mr. Fred S. Jackson for defendant in error in No. 133.
The Gas Company is a public utility under the laws. of
Kansas. Laws 1911, c. 238, § 3; Cimarron v. Water,
Light & Ice Ca., 110 Kans. 812.
The sale of natural gas is local in its nature. State v.
Flannelly, 96 Kans. 372; State v. Gas Company, 100
Kans. 593; North CarolinaPub. Serv. Comm. v. Southern
Power Co., 282 Fed. 837.
The rates charged by the gas company to the distributing companies at the gates of the cities are subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commission. Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Comm., 252 U. S..23;
s. c. 184 App. Div. 556; 225 N. Y. 397.
This Court, in the Pennsylvania Gas Co. Case, has expressly held that the State may regulate the sale of natural gas in interstate commerce where it is of a local nature. The sale of natural gas by the defendant to the distributing companies in no way differs from the sale by
that company to cities, industries or large consumers of
gas. In either case it is interstate commerce of a local
nature which has not been regulated by Congress, and
the principles of law which are applied to the interstate
commerce at the burners' tips in the Pennsylvania Gas

MISSOURI v. KANSAS GAS CO.
298

Opinion of the Couit.

Co. Case are equally applicable to.the sale of gas measured
by the flow meters to the distributing companies in
Kansas.
MR. JusicE SuTEE
Court.

maN

delivered the opinion of the.

These cases were consolidated for argument. They
present for decision the single question whether the business of the Kansas Natural Gas Company, hereinafter
called the Supply Company, consisting of the transportation of natural gas from one State to another for sale,
and its sale and delivery, to distributing companies, is
interstate commerce free from state interference?
The facts necessary to be considered in reaching a
conclusion are, shortly, as follows:
The Supply Company is a Delaware corporation, engaged in producing and buying natural gas, mostly in
Oklahoma but some in Kansas, and, by means of pipe
lines, transporting it into Kansas and from Kansas into
the State of Missourt and in each State selling and delivering it to distributing companies, which then sell and
deliver it to local consumers in numeroui communities in
Kansas and Missouri. The gas originating in Kansas is
mingled for transportation in the same lines with that
originating in Oklahoma. The pipe lines are continuous
from the wells to the place of delivery.
The three cases are alike in the fact that they arise
from the action of the Supply Company in making an
increase of rates from thirty-five cents to forty cents per
thousand cubic feeti-in .Missouri, without the consent
and approval of the Public Utilities Commission of the
State, and, in Kansas, notwithstanding a previous order
of the federal court fixing a thirty-five-cent rate and the
-action of the Utilities Commission approving and fixing
that rate. The power of the Utilities Commission of each
State is challenged on the ground that the matter, under

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

the commerce clause of the Constitution, is not subject
to state control.
In No. 155, appellants brought suit in the Federal District Court to enjoin the Supply Company from increasing its rates. The injunction prayed was denied. 282
Fed..341.
In No. 133, the defendant in error filed a petition in
the Kansas Supreme Court for .a writ of mandamus to
compel the Supply Company to.reestablish and maintain
the rate-of thirty-five cents per thousand cubie" feet for
gas furnished to the distributing companieb; until otherwise ordered by the Utilities Commission. The case was
presented to that court on demurrer to-the return and
answer. The demurrer was sustained.and a peremptory
writ of mandamus allowed, as prayed. -111 Kans. 809.
In No. 137, the suit was to enjoin the.Supply Company
from collecting or attempting to collect the increased
rates from various gas distributing companies until the
consent thereto of the: Utilities Commission of the State
should be secured. The Federal District Court deniedthe injunction but retained the bill for another purpose,
not necessary to be stated. 282 Fed. 680."
The business of the Supply Company, with an exception not important here, is wholly interstate. The sales
and deliveries are in large quantities not for consumption
but for resale to consumers. There is no relation of
agency between th.e Supply Company and the distribu*ting compa.nies, or other relation except that of seller
and buyer, Publie Utilities Comm. Vr. Landon, 249 U. S.
236, 2144-245; and the interest of the former in: the com"modity ends .with its delivery to the latter, to which'title
and control thereupon pass absolutely. The question is,
therefore, presented in its simplest form; and if the claim
of state power be upheld, it is difficult.to see how it could
be denied in any case of interstate transportation and sale
of gas. Both federal courts denied the power. The state
-

MISSOURI v. KANSAS GAS CO.
298

307

Opinion of the CourL.

court conceded that the business was interstate and subject to federal control, but rested its decision the other
way upon the fact that Congress had not acted in the
matter and that, in the absence of such action, it was
within.the regulating power of the State. The question
is controlled, by familiar principles. Transportation of
gas from one State to another is interstate commerce;
and the sale and delivery of it to the local distributing
companies is a part of such commerce. In Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon, supra,at p. 245, this Court said:
"That the transportation of gas through pipe lines from
one State to another is interstate commerce may not be
doubted. Also, it is clear that as part of such commerce
the receivers might sell and deliver gas so transported
to local distributing companies free from. unreasonable
interference by the State." See Pennsylvania v. West

Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, 596, and cases there cited.
The line 'of division between cases where, in the absence of congressional action, the State is auorized to
act, anii those where state action is precluded by mere
*force of the commerce clause of the Constitution, is not
always clearly marked. In the absence bf congressional
legisla.qtion, a State may constitutionally impose taxes,
enact inspection laws, quarantine laws and, generally,
laws of internal police, although they may have an incidental effect upon interstate commerce. Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 488-491. But the
commerce clause of the Constitution, of its own force;
restrains the States from imposing direct burdens upon
interstate commerce. In MinneotaRate Cases, 230 U. S.
352, 396, Mr. Justice Hughes, speaking for the. Courtj
said: ' If a state enactment imposes a direct burden upon
interstate commerce, it must, fall regardless of Federal
legislation. The poidt of such an objection is not that
Congress has acted, but that the State has directly re-

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S."

strained that which in the absence of Federal regulation
should be free." The-question.is so fully discussed in that
case, that nothing beyond its citation is required.
*The contentioh that, in the public interest, the business
is one requiring regulation, need not be challenged: But
Congress thus far has not seen fit to regulate it, and its
silen~e, where it has the sole power to speak, is equivalent
to a declaration that that particular commerce shall be
free from regulation. See Robbins v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 120 U. S, 489, 493. With the delivery
of the gas to the distributing companies, however, the
interstate movement ends. Its subsequent sale and delivery by these companies to their customers at retail is
intrastate business and subject to state'rejulation. Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon, supra, 1. 245. In such
case the effect on interstate commerce, if there be any, is
indirect and incidental. But the sale and delivery here
is an inseparable part of a transaction in interstate commerc6-not local but essentially national in character,-and enforcenient of a selling price in such a transactiQn
places a direct burden upon such comnerce inconsistent
with'that freedom of interstate trade which it was the
purpose of the compaerce clause to secure and preserve.
It is as though the Commission stood at the state line and
imposed its regulation upon the final step in the process
at the moment the interstate commodity entered the
State and before it had become part of the general mass
of property therein. See Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
622, 634. There is nothing in Pennsylvania Gas Co. v.
Public Service Comm.. 252 U. S. 23, inconsistent with
this .view. There the" Gas Company, a Pennsylvania
corporatibn; transmitted gas from Pennsylvania into New
York and sold it directly to the consumers. The service
.to the consumers, which was the 'theory for which the
regulated charge was made, was essentially local and the
decision rests upon this feature. Mr. Justice Day, in the

MISSOURI v. KANSAS GAS CO.
298

I

. 309

Opinion of the Court.

course of the opinion, said. (p. 31): "The pipes which
reach the customers seived are supplied with gas directly from the main of the company which brings it into
the State, nevertheless the service rendered is essentially
local, and the sale of gas is by the company to local consumers who are reached by the use of the streets of the
city in which the pipes are laid, and through.which the
gas is cbndueted 'to factories and residences as it is required for use. The service is similar.to that of a local
plant furnishing gasto consumers in a city." The commodity, after reaching the point of distribution in New
York was subdivided and sold at retail. The Landon
Coae, so far as this phase is concerned, differs only in
the fact that the process of division and sale to consumers
was carried on, not by the supply company, but by independentz distributinqg companies.
In both cases the things done were local and were after
the business in its essentially national aspect had come to
"anend. The distinction which constitutes the basis of
the present decision is clearly recognized in the Landon
Case. The business of supplying, on demand, local consumers is a local business, even though the gas be brought
from another State and drawn for distribution directly
from interstate mains; and this is so whether the local distribution be made by the transporting company or .y independent distributing companies. In such case the local
interest is paramount, and the interference with interstate coinmerce, if any, indirect and of minor importance.
* But here the sale of gas is in wholesale quantities, not to
consuiners, but to distributing companies for resale to
consumers in numerous cities and communities in different States. The transportation, sale and delivery constitute an unbroken chain, ,fundamentally interstate from
beginning to end, and of .such continuity as to amount to
an established course of business. The paramount interest is not local but national, admitting of, and requiring

310

OCTOBER'TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

uniformity of regulation. Such uniformity, even though
it-be the unif6rmity of governmental nonactibn, may be
highly necessary to preserve equality of opportunity and
treatment among the various communities and States
concerned. See, for example: Welton v. Missouri, 91
U. S.275, 282; Hag v. DeCuir,95 U. S.485, 490.
That some or all of the distributing companies are operating under state or municipal franchises cannot affect
the question. It is enough to say that the Supply Company is not so operating and is not made a patty to these
franchises by merely doing business with the franchise
holders.
No. 155 Affirmed.
No. 188 Reversed.
No. 187 Affirmed.
COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION OF PORT OF
NEW YORK v. GOTTLIEB ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR'THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No . 221. Argued -Apr 15, 16, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924
1. When the plan words of a statute leave no room for construction,
the courts must follow it, however harsh the consequences. P. 313.
2. Section 3 of the Immigration Act of 1917 and § 2(d) of the Quota
Law of 1921, as amended May 11, 1922; are both operative and
should be construed as acts in par!materia. P. 312.
3. Sebtion 3 of the Immigration Act of 1917, after an enumeration
of excluded classes ending with the natives of a designated part of
Asia and those of certain islands adjacent to that continent, declares that "the provision nixt foregoing" shall not apply to persons of various named occupations, including ministers of religion,.
-nor -to their legal wives or their children under 18 years, etc.
Hdd, that the exception applies only to aliens coming from

Asiatie regions referred to. P. 313.
4. Section 2(d) of the Quota Act provides that'when the
*ax
imum
number of aliens of any nationality shall have been admitted,

