104-

OCTOBER TERM, f923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

stone Tire & Rubber Co. v. Marlboro Cotton Mills, 282
Fed. 811,8i4. Nor could its right not to be sued'there be
affected by anything which the garnishee did or onlitted
to do. Moreover, the garnishee's objection to the jursdiction (on grounds later upheld by this Court in the
Farmers Co-operative.Co. Case) had been overruled by
the state court. W&have no occasion, therefore, to consider further the scope or the provisions of the statutes
concerning garnishmeit."
Reversed.
TRANSPORTES MARITIMOS DO ESTADO v. AL:"
MEIDA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
T3E SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 265. Submitted April 30, 1924.-Decided May 12, 1924.

1. The defente of sovereign immunity by a defendant in the District
Court does not present a question" of federal jurisdiction reviewable here on direct appeal. Oliver American Trading Co. v.
United States of Mexico, 264 U. S.440. P. 105.
2. This is equally true whether th6 claim of immunity be contested
because of the character of the defendant or because the immunity
is alleged to have been waived. Id.

Writ of error dismissed and cause transferred.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court for the
plaintiff, Almeida., in his action for wages as a seaman.

Mr. F. Dudley Kohler for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Silas B. Axtell for defendant in error.
MR. JusTcI

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Alneida, a seaman, brought this action for 'wages
against Transportes Maritmo§ do Estado on the common
law side of the federal court for southern New York. The

TRANSPORTES MARITIMOS v. ALMEIDA.
104

105

Opinion of the Court.

defendant appeared generally; answered that it was a department of the Government of the Republic of Portugal;
offered evidence in support of the allegation; and claimed
the immunity of a sovereign from all process. 'The District Judge entered judgment for the plaintiff in an
amount stipulaied by counsel; allowed a direct writ of
efror from this Court;.and issued the certificate of a jurisdictional question provided for in § 238 of the Judicial
Code.
This Court is without jurisdiction bf the writ of error.
It was settled in Oliver American Trading Co. v. United
itates of Mexico, 264 U. S. 440 (decided since the entry of
judgment below) that the claim of sovereign immunity
does not present a question of federal jurisdiction within
the meaning of § 238. This is equally true whether the
claim of immunity "iscontested because of the character
of the defendant or because the immunity is alleged to
have been waived. The question involved here is not that
presented in The Pesaro,.255 U. S. 216, and The Carlo
*Poma,255 U. S. 219. There, the question requiring decision was *hether Congress had conferred upon the district court sitting in admiralty powei to, entertain a suit
against, a "general ship engaged in the common carriage
of merchandise by water, for hire" which, at the time of
the arrest, was owned by the Italian Government and was
in its possession. That question being one of the jurisdiction of the court ag a federal court, the direct appeal was
sustained in The Pesaro and the appeal to the Circuii
Court of Appeals was ordered dismissed in The Carlo
Poma. A related question was presented in The Sao
Vicente, 260 U. S. 151, which was likewise a suit in
admiralty. There, the writ of certiorari was dismissed.
Compare Ex parte Transportea Maritimos do Estado,
264 U. S. 105.
As the writ of error from this Court was improvidently
allowed, the case must be transferred to the Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. 8.

of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Section 238 (a) of
the Judicial Code, Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42
Stat. 837. ,Smith,v. Apple, 264 U. S. 274.
It so ordered.
BROOKS-SCANLON
-UNITED STATES

CORPORATION v. UNITED
STATES.
v. BROOKS-SCANLON
PORATION.

COR-

APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 357, 385.

Argued January 8, 1924.-Decided May 12, 1924.

1. Orders of the Emergency Beet Corporation directed to a shipbuilder expropriated a vessel in process of construction under a
contract between the builder and the plaintiff, together with the
materials purchased by the builder for its completion, the benefits
and advantages of payments made, and of plans, specifications
and prior inspection service provided, by the plaintiff, and placed
the Feet Corporation in the plaintiff's shoes with respect to the
past and future execution of the contract by the builder. The
United States thus obtained the ship early and the benefit of
prices much lower than those prevailing at time of requisition.
Held:
(a) That the plaintiff's rights ftinder the contract with the builder
were taken. F. 119.
(b) That the just compensation to which the plaintiff was entitled
did not depend upon the title to the materials used in the construction, and was not to. be gauged by the progress payments
made, or by the compensation payable if the Government had.
merely candeled the contract; but was to be measured by the
value of the plaintiff's rights under the contract at the time of
the taking. P. 121.
(c) Just compensation is the sum "which, considering all the circumstances, uncertainties of the war, etc, probably could have
been obtained for an assignment of the plaintiff' rights under the
contract, i. e.. the. sum that would in all 'probability result from
fair-negotiations between an owner willing to sell and a purchaser
desirous of buying. P. 123.

