., 500

OCTOBER-TERM, 1923.
Decree.

265 U.S.

Both reports will be -approved and a decree° will be
entered.giving effect to the boundary along the Big Bend
Area as run, surveyed and-marked by the'commissioners.
STATE OF OI)LAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED- STATES, INTERVENER.'
IN EQITY.

No. 1b, Origin.
DECREE RET.ATING TO STATE BOUNDARY, ENTERED JUNE

.'9, 1924.

1 ecree:

(1) reciting the report of. the cmonisiners heretofore

appointed showing that they have run, located and marked the
* boundary in question, along. thie Big Bend Ared of Red River;
(2) oVerrulihg'protests and exceptiolis and confirming the rep6rt; "(3y adjudging- that the line delineated in the report and

* on maps Acconipanying it be established and declared to be the
true boundary between Texas and .Oklahoma along the part of
-Med River designat@d. in the report subject to future changes by
erosion and accretion; and (4) directing that copies of this decree

and of the said maps be transmitted to the Chief Magistrates of
the two States.

ON consideration of the, report bf the commissioners,
heretofore salected to run,'locate and 'mark portions of
*the b6undary between the.States of Texas and Ofliahoma
•aloig the south baik of the Red River, shiowing that'they
have run, located and marked" the' portion of such
boundary along theBig'Ben d Area, such report being as
folows:
"To th&Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the
Supreme' Court of the United States:
"As commissioners designated in the.decree of March
12, 1923, in the abo-e entitled cause, we have run, located
and marked upon the groimd the boundary-between the:

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.

.501

5Decree.

States of Texas and Oklah.mia along the Red River in what
is known as the Big Bend Area (Area 'A') in. accordafice
with that decree-and the principles. announced in the
opinion delivered- January 15, 1923, and we"have the
honor to submit the following joint report respecting
that part of our iiork, with field notes and maps."
"Paragraphs5, 6 and 7 of the de6ree follow: '
" ' 5. The south bahk of the river is'the water-washed
,and relatively permanent elevation or acclivity, commohily
called a cut.bank, 'along the .outherly side of the river
which separates its.bed"from th.e adja.aent upland, ivhether
valley or hill, and usually serves 'to confind the waters
within the bed and to preserve the courie of the river
6. The.boundary between the.4wo States is on "sad
along-that bank at the mean level attaimed by the waters
. of the river when they reach"and wash -the bank without
overflowing it..
"" 7. At 6x6eptional places where there is no well de-fined cut bank, but only a, gradual incline from the sand
bed of the river to th upland, the boiundary is a line
.over such incline confoiming to the. mean level of the
waters when "at bther places.in that vicinity they'reach
and wash the cut bank -ivithout overflowing'it.'
."ihe foregoing specifications applied in the light of
'the opinion, admit of, and rbqlrn 'the -exercise of prac-.
tical judgment in determinng the line inteiided; bi.t cer'tain fundamentls, such ds the following, obviously must
forn the final basis for the exaet locatioii of thelinei.
"The.boundary'line is a gradient of the flowing .wster
in the river. It is l.cated midway between the lower.
levelof the flowing-water that just re.ches the cut bank,
an1 tfie higher le;'el of. it that just. does not overtop the
cut bank. The physical top of the cut bank being very
uneven in profile, cannot be a;-datum for locating the
boundary line; 'but a gradient along'the bank must be

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Decree.

265 U. S.

used for that purpose. The highest point ongradient
must not be higher than the lowest acceptable point on
the -bank in that vicinity. The boundary line has been
determined accordingly.
"We have marked the boundary line by woo'den posts
called 'witness posts' set along the bank at varying
short distances from the boundary, and from each other.
A bearing and distance has .been taken from each witness post to one or more points on the boundary.
" Permanent reference monuments are located at varying intervals on the Texas bluff overlooking ihe river"
valley. Other permanent reference nonuments are located on the Oklahoma -bluff, and these overlook the
river valley.
"By accurate, surveys the witness posts are joined to
each other and to the monuments on the Texas bluff.
Similarly the Texas monuments are joined to each other
and to the Oklahoma monuments, which in turn, are
joined to ea&h" other-and to the witness posts. Permanent bench marks located'near the 'boundary are also
joined to the witness posts and to the reference monuments.

"All oil wells within three hundred feet of. the bound-"
ary have been accurately located upon the. gro und, andthe position of each, whether in Texas or in Oklahoma,
is stated. From each oil well, a,bearing and distanice is
given to a point on the boundary.
"The boundary line is shown by tht usual, symbol "
and appropriate wording on: the accompanying maps,
which also show the positions of the witness posts, the
oil wells, the reference monuments, the bench marks
and other information usually appearing on such -maps.
These maps are made part of this report aAd are identified
as follows:
"Map No. 1: Cadastfal Map of the Big Bend Area,
scale 2,000 feet to the inch;

OK AOMA v. TEXAS.
500

Decree.

"Map No. 2: Cadastral Map of the oil field region,
in two sheets, Nos. 1 and 2 scale 500 feet to the inch;
and,
"Map No. 3: Topographic Map of the Big Bend Area,
in four sheets, Nos. 1, 2,3 and 4, scale 500 feet to the inch,
contour interval 2 feet.
"The survey was begun April 16, 1903, and completed
February 17, 1924. The locat.ion of the boundary, reported herewith, is that.position which existed on December 31, 1923.
"The surveying has been done .withpainstaking care
in accordance with approved modem methods. The re.
sults have been subjected to one or. more tests to verity
their accuracy. The field notes have been reduced to
the minimum, consistent with the proper record of the
boundary location.
"The geographic positions are on the standard datum
of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey; the
datum of the elevations is mean sea level.
"The field notes of the boundary, location of oil wells,
description of reference monuments and- witness posts,
and tables of azimuths, distances, geographic positions
and sea level.elevations, follow:
[The matter here -referred to occupies many pa~es of
.technical descriptibn, and -hence is omitted fromd this
report.]
"On March 26, 1923, before entering upon our work,
we appeared before C. Elmore Cropley,'lNotary Public
of the District of Columbia, in the'office of the Clerk of
the Supreme Court of the United Staies, and subscribed'
to the following oath:
"tI, (Arthur D. -Kidder. and Arthur A. Stiles, subscribed individually), having been app6inted one of the
Commissioners to run, locate and mark the state line.
between the States of Oklahoma.and Texas in accordance
with the Partial Decree Relating to State Boundary en-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Decree.

.265 U. .

"tered March 12, 1923, and the opinion of -this Court
delivered January 15, 1923, do solemnly swear that I will
faithfully and impartially lierfoun the duties of the office
upon which I am about to enter, to the best of my abilities, and that I will support the Constitution" of the.
United States. So' help me. God.'
"A .statement of the time .employed ahd .the expense
incurred in the. performance of the woklk will be the subject of a later report.
'Five copies eac3h of the report*and maps have been
to-day sent by registered mail to the Attorney'General
of the United States, the Attorney Geneial of Texas and
the Attorney General of Oklahoma. We ilso have filed.
with the clerk of the court fifty copies'of the report and:
maps for. th. iise of such private intervefiers as my
apply for them. Thity additional. copies of the report
and maps have been filed with the -clerk for such disposition as'the court may.direct.
"The originals of the threemaps.hereinbefore named
are bound with the .original report, and appear in the
following order: Map No. 1, Map. No.- 2,.Sheets Nos. 1and:2, and Map No. 3, Sheets Nos. 1,. 2, 3 and 4.
SsRespectfully submitted.
"Aum D. KmDER.
"AuTkuR A. $9tes,
"Commissioners.
." WAsEn'GoTo:,'D. C., AprIl 25,'1924!
.Ad--ml consideration of the exceptions presented to
such report. and-of th protests -made.agairst the same:
It is now adjudged, 6rdered and decreed that the exceptions aiid .protests be overruled and'that. the report
-'be in'all res'ects confirmed.,:
j.It is firther -adjudged,'ordered and decreed that the
:line delineated and set forth in the report and on the
* maps accompanying the same and referred to therein be

-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
500

505 .1

Syllabus.

established and deqtared to be.the true boundary between
the States of Texas and Oklahoma along the paxt of the
Red River designated in such repor, subject howev.er to
such changes a .=ayhereafter be wrought by the natural and gradual processes known as erosion and accretion.as

specified in the second, third- and fourth paragraphs of
the decree rendered herein March 12, 1928, 261 U S. 340.

It is flirther ordered -that the Clerk of this-Coirt
do
transmit to the Chief- Magistrates of the States of Texas.
and 0klahoma.xopiss of this decree, duly authenticated
under the seal of this Court, together wit'cojies of the"
maps which accompanied the rep6rfof-the commissioners.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQU!Jl=.

,No. 15, Original. Order "11xing tit3le for' fling suggestions, etc.,
entered May 5,1924; argued oh suggestions, etc., May 26, 1924.Dedided June 9, 1924..
1. Where a receivership was necessary for. the protection of oil and
gas lands .whose ownership depended upon the establist.n~ent of
an interstate boundary,-the primary object of the suit,--and the
bbundary, as finally established, lay-between the. lines. claimed by
opposing parties, held, that the general expenses of the receifership
were alpjortionable against the several funds derived by fhe re'peiver from operation of oil and gas 'wells, whether on one side.ok
the other of the Vouiidary established, and that funds arising from wells operated-by claimants under the receiver's supervision, causing less expiense, shbuld 'be assessed on a lower basig'than funds
••
arising .from 'wells operated by him directly. P. 507.
2. In -appoi ioning general receivership- expenses agiinsf funds "de
rived by the receiver from oil and gas wells ofierated under his
supervision bylessees of the-owners, 7 dd, that the chatte should.
be against each fund as an entirety and lie deducted from the. "owner's and lessee's shares thereof pro raia. -P. 511.
3. The expense or loss of work done by the. receiver in this cause on
unremunerative wells in the "River'Bed Arte--said -rea bel6ng-

