L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON CO.
Syllabus.'

57

doei not recuire an answer. The only shadow of a ground
for bringing up the case is drawn from the hypothesis
that. the examination of the vessels took place upon
Hester's father's land. As to that, it is enough to say
that, apart from the justification, the special protection

accorded by the Fourth Amendment to the people in their

"persons, houses, papers, and effects," is not extended to
the open fields. The distinction between the .latter and
the house is as old as the common law. 4 B1. Comm. 2.3,

225, 226.

ludgment affirmed.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CENTRAL IRON & -COAL COMPANY.
ERROR To THE CIRCUI

COURT OF -APPEAIJS FOR THE Fi.H
CIRCUIt.

No. 198. Argued February 19, 1924.--Decided lay 5, 1924.
1. No .contract of &carrier can reduce the amount of charges legally
.payable to it under its tariff for an interstate shipment, or release
from liability a shipper who has assumed their payment; nor can
any act or omission of the cArier (except the running of the statute
of Iimtatiqns) estop or preclude it from enforcing payment of the
full amoun.t by the person liable. P. 65.
2. But, in the absence of a governing tariff provision, delivery of the
goods for shipment does not-necessarily import an obligation of the
shipper to pay the freight charges, and the carrier and shipper are
free to contract as to when and by whom payment shall be made,
* subject to the'rulQ *against discrimination. P. 66..
3. Where bills of lading achnowledged receipt of g6ods" from the
shipper but provided'for delivery to the order of another as consgnee, were not signed by the shipper, and contaiied no express
agreement on his part -to pay or guaiantee payment of the freight
charges, and. there was evidence tha" the goods were sold and
shipped by the shipper to the consignee upon agreement between
then that the latter should pay those chargds, and were transferred
by the consignee with the bills.of lading to a third partt who-received delivery from the carrier, JZdd, that a fndin .that the"

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for PIaintiff in Error.

265 U. S.

shipper did not assume the primary obligation to pay the freight
charges was justified. P. 67.
4. To enforce payment of freight charges by 'a shipper only seeondarily liable, the carrier must first make effort to colect from
those primarily liable. P. 69.
5. A consignee, by accettiug the shipment, becomes liable as ' matter
of law for the fll!amount of the-tariff charges, whether they are
demanded at the nime
of delivery or later. Pittsburgh, etc. By.
Co. v. Fink,250 U. S..577. P. 70.
284 Fed. 250, affirmed.
ERRoR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
affirming a. judgment by the-District Court for the defendant Coal Company in an action by the railroad to.recover the difference between the amount chargelable under
its tariff for an interstate shipment and a. less amount
collected.
Mr. Homer' W. Davis, with whom Mr. Gardiner
Lathrop and Mr. Edward S. Joutt were on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error.
Prior, to the passage of the Interstate Commerce Act,
it was uniformly held that the shipment of goods under
a bill of lading containing no express provision requiring
payment of freight by the -consignor, impliedly bound
him so to do, irrespective of whether or not he was the
owner of the goods shipped. Wooster v. Tart, 8 Allen,
270; Blanchardv. Page, 8 Gray, 281; Holt v. Westcott,
43 Me. 445; Portland Flouring Mlls Co. v. British &
Foreign Marine. Ins. Co., 130 Fed. 860; Hutchinson,
Carriers, 3d ed., i 810; 7 Amer. & Eng. Eno., L., 2d ed.,
p. 260; Elliott, Railfoads, § 1659.
The reasoins which obtained prior to the Interstate
Commerce Act for holding a shipper primarily liable were
augmented by its passage.. In this case the consignor is
liable under the admitted facts. Pittsburgh,etc. By. Co.
v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577; New York Central, etc. R. R. Co.
v. York & Whitney Ca.,'230 Mass. 206;.'s. c., 256 U. S.

L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON CO.
59

Argument for Plaintiff in Error..

406. Although these decisions relate only to. the. consignee's liability, -their reasoning applies to this case, and
they plainly show that instances of occasional hardship
must not be allowed to stand in the way of the collection
of tariff rates and the enforcement of the provisions of
.-the Interstate Commerce Act, which has for its object the
abolition of the numerous abuses which existed before it
was enacted.
Only a nominal hardship is imposed on a consignor by
holding him liable for an undercharge when the consignee
is solvent.
It seems pertinent to observe that if, as claimed by the
consignor and found by the courts below, the ultimate
consignee was solvent up to the time suit was brought,
then any hardship which either consignor or the bill of
lading consignee would suffer, should the consignor by the
judgment of this Court be now held liable, is the result of
the course pursued by the consignor in this case.
It is undisputed that demand was made on the consignor before suit was brought and that theconsignor had
a contract for the sale of the coke f. o. b. Holt, Alabama,
t6 the firm of Tutwiler & Brooks of Biriningha, Ala,
bama, the bill of lading consignee.
Instead of paying the undercharge and making collection from either Tutwiler & Brooks 6r the Smelter Corporation, the consignor, so far as the record shows, did
nothing before, or for over fifteen months after, the suit
was brought, when it filed a demurrer to the complaint.
If, as testified, the Smelter Corporation was solvent up
t6 January, 1920, and for three months thereafter, and
during that time could have been forced to pay the amount
due on execution, there is no reason why the consignor and
Tutwiler & Brooks could not have iaade'collection during
that period from the Smelter Corporation, since the purchase of goods f. o. b. a given point with directions to'the.
consignor to ship to some other point, and the payment of

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

265 U. S.

the purchase price, unquesti6nably binds the purchaser to
see tbat the consignor or the party from whom th6 gbods
are purchased is not thereafter held liable for the freight
charges.
Neither estoppel nbr election can become the mbans of.
avoiding payment of tariff rates. Pittsburgh,etc., Ry. Co.
v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577.
No reason is given by the court below in explanation
of 'its position that, while by conduct a carrier could not
raise an estoppel which wbuld release a consignor, yet by
the same kind of conduct it could make an election whi.nch
would have that effect.
It has frequently beeikheld that'the doctrine of election
of remedies is simply an application of the law of estoppel.
Crockett First "NationalBank v. Barse Live Stock Cornmission Co., 198 Ill. 232; Baker v. Edwaris, 176 N. C.
229; Warriner v. Fant, 114 Miss. 174; Bierce, Ltd. v.
Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340.
Certainly, any election must arise out of some act of
the party who has -the choice of remedies, and not out of
an act or change in the financial responsibility of someone
else, and in either of those cases the only act of the Railroad Company would be to collect part of the charges
upon delivery at destination.
Furthermore, election applies in the case of inconsistent
and not alternative remedies. Friederchsen,v. Renard,
247 U. S.207. In the case of consignor and consignee,

it would not be inconsistent to sue both of them at the
same time for freight charges, although recovery from
either would bar the suit against the other. The rights
of the carrier to hold either or both are alternative or
cumulative. Central R. R. Co.. v. MacCartney, 68 N. J.
L. 165. Yazo & Mississippi VaUe , B. Co. v. ZerNurray,
238 Fed. 789, distinguished.
The Interstate Commerce Commission and numerous
courts have passed on the question involved in this case

L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON IbO.
59

Opinion of the Court.

in the light of the Interstate Commerce Act, and almost
without exception hold that the consignor must payif the
consignee does" not. Great Northern By. Co. v. Hyder,
279 Fed. 783; New York Central R. B. Co. v. Federal
Sugar Refining Co., 235 N.. Y. 182; Cleveland, etc..By; Co.
v. Southern Coal & Coke Co., 147 Tenn. 433; New York,
etc. B. B. Co. v. Tonella, 79 N. H. 464; Wells Fargo & Co.
v. Cunea,241 Fed: 727; Boise Commercial Club v. Adams
Express Co., 17 L C. C. 115; Boston & Maine.B.-B. v.
National Orange Co., 232 Mass.*351; Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Hocking Valley Fire Clay Co., 166 Wis. 465; Chicago, etc. Ry. Co. v. Peterson,16& Wis. 193; Baltimore &
Ohio-S. W. Ry. Co. v. New Albany Box & Basket Co., 48
Ind. App. 647; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Stannard
& Co., 99 Kans. 720; Jelksv. Philadelphia& Reading By.
Co.,.14 Ga. App. 96.
It is true that, in practically all of the above cases,
there was no dispute but that the consignee was insolvent,
because it is not the practice to collect undercharges from
consignors when there is any reasonable prospet of making collection from the consignee.
But all the cases referred to were decided on the ground
that there was, and must be, to enforce the iterstat.e
Commerce Act, an absolute liability on the part of the
consignor to pay if the consignee does not.
The consignee was not solvent when this suit was
brought, except in the sense that one may be said to be
solvent until adjudged otherwise.
Mr. Henry A. Jones, with whom Mr. Alla. C. Rearick,
Mr.A. C. Travis, Mr. De Vane K. Jones and Mr.Adrian
Van de ( raaff were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
Mi. JusTicE BRA=EIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In January, 1917,. the Central Iron & Coal Company
sold Tutwiler & Brook"' carloads of coke to be deliv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923..
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

ered f. o. b. cars.at the seller's plant -in Holt, Alabama.
Before delivery by the seller, the purchasers sold the coke
to the Great Western Smelters Corporation of Mayer,
Arizona. Thereafter, under instructions from Tutwiler
& .Brooks, and upon their agreement to pay the freight,
the Central Company delivered, at its plant, the cars of
coke to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad; directed
shipmen . -thereof to Mayer over that railroad .and connecting lines; and took bills of lading which it delivered
immediately to Tutwiler & Brooks. That firm made a
draft for the purchase price on the Smelters Corporation,
with bills of lading attached. The corporation paid the
draft; received the bills of lading; and, upon surrendering
them to the delivering carrier and payment to it of the
freight demanded, obtained possession of'the coke. The
amount of the freight then demanded and paid was
$5,082.15. The freight legally payable, according to the
tariff, was $8,545.61.
The undercharge was apparently not discovered until
January, 1920. The Louisville and Nashville then made
demand upon the Central Company for the amount
($3,463.46). .Payment being refused, this action to
recover it' was brought in the federal court for the
Northern District of Alabama, Western Division. Each
party requdsted a directed verdict. It was directed for the
defendant; judgment entered thereon-was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 284 Fed. 250; and the ase is
here on writ of error under § 241 of the Judicial Code.
Most of the facts were agreed. The bills of lading
acknowledged receipt of the coke from the Central Company; stated that the coke was "consigned to Order Of
Tutwiler & Brooks, Destination Mayer, Arizona, . . .
Notify Great Western Smelters.Corporation"; and pro'vlded; among other so-called conditions, that "The owner
or con*gnee shall pay the freight," and average, if
any, . .- . and, if required, shall pay the same before

L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON CO.
59

Opinion of the Court.

delivery!" There was no suggestion that Tutwile &
Brooks were insolvent.- Whether collection could then
have been made from the Smelters Corporation is a
matter as to which there was conflicting evidence.2
..The shipment being an interstate one, the freight rate
was that stated ,inthe tariff filed with the Interstate
Commerce -Commission. The amount of the freight
chares legally payable was determined by applying this
tariff rate to the actual weight. Thus, they were fixed by
law. No contract of the carrier could reduce the amount
legally payable; or release from liability a shipper who
had assumed an obligation to pay the charges. Nor could
any act or omission of the carrier (except the running of
the statute of limitations) estop or preclude it from enforcing payinent of. the full amount by a person liable
therefor. Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis
Ry.Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577; New York. Central, etc.
R. R. Co. v.York & Whitney Co., 256 U. S. 406. Compare St. Louis Southwesfem Ry. Co,. v. Spring River
Stone Co., 236 U. S.718. But delivery of goods to a
carrier for shipment .doesnot; under the Interstate Com'The bills of lading also contained these clauses: "If charges are
to be prepaid, write or stamp here. Received $.......... to apply

in prepayment of .......... To be prepaid ....." The blanks
were not filled by writing or stamip. The form of bills of lading used
was what is known as the standard form order bill of lading. But
the goods shipped were made deliverable to the order of a named
consignee. Compare Pere Marquette Ry. Co. v. French & Co., 254

U. S. 538, 539, 540.
'The corporation was not then technically insolvent. That is, no

proceeding in bankruptcy had been instituted by or against it; there
was no outstanding unsatisfied eecution; and the corporatioii was
still in possession of some unencumbered property. If the error had
been discovered within a few months after delii'ery of the coke, the

delivering carrier might easily have obtained payment of the amount
of the undfercharge by applying to that purpose funds of the Smelters
Corporation then on deposit with it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

merce Act, mpose upon a shipper an absolute obligation
to pay the freight charges
The tariff- did not provide
when or by whom the payment should be made. As to
these ilatters carrier and shipper were left free to contract, subject to the rule which prohibits discrimination.'
The carrier was at liberty to require prepayment of
freight charges; or to permit that payment to be deferred
until the goods reached the end of the transportation.
Wadley Southem By. Co. v. Georgia,235 U. S. 651, 656.
Where payment is so deferred, the carrier may require
that it be made before delivery of the goods; or concurrently with the delivery; or may permit it to be made
later. Where the payment is deferred, the contract may

provide that the shipper agrees absolutely to pay the
."harges; or it may provide merely that he shall pay if the
'See Interstate Commerce Commission Conference Ruling No. 314,

Bulletin No. 7, issued August 1, 1917: "The law requires the carrier
to colleAb and the party legally responsible to pay the lawfully
established rates without deviatioh therefrom. It follows that it is
the duty of carriers to exhaust their legal remedies in order to collect
undercharges from the party or parties legally responsible therefor.
It is not for the Commission, however, to determine in any case which
party, consignor or consignee, is legally liable for the undercharge,
that being a question determinable only by a court having jurisdiction
and upon the facts of each case." This ruling, which was adopted
May 1, 1911, and "interpreted" May 4, 1918, was amended, on
March 6, 1922, by calling attention to the provision inserted in the
Uniform Domestic Bill of Lading prescribed October 21, 1921. By
that provision the consignor may (see Section 7 of Conditions and
clause on face of bill) relieve himself of all liability for freight
charges. .Iz the Matter of Bills of Lading, 52 I. C. C. 671, 721; 64
I. C. C. 347; ibi,-357; 66 I. C. C. 63.
'But see § 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended February 28, 1920, o., 91, § 405, 41 Stat. 456, 479. In re sectio
8, etc., (Regulations for Payment of Rates and Charges) 57
L C. C. 591.
Compare Hocling'Vaey Ry.Co. v. United States, 210 Fed. 735,
741; Boise Commeroial Club v. Adams Express Co., 17 I. C. C.
115,121.

. L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON CO.
59

Opinion of the Court.

consignee does not pay the charges demanded upon delivery of the goods, Or the carrier may accept the goods
for shipment solely on account of. the consignee-, and,
knowing that the shipper is acting msrely as agent for
the consignee, may contract that only the latter shall be
liable for the freight charges. Or both the shipper and
the consignee may be made liable. Nor does delivery of
goods to a carrier necessarily import, under the general
law, an absolute promise by the shipper to pay the freight
charges. We must, therefore, determine what promise,
if any, to pay freight charges was, in fact, made by the
Central Company.
To ascertain-what contract was entered into we look
primarily to the bills of lading, bearing in mind that the
instrument serves both As a receipt and as a contrac.
Ordinarily, the person-from whom the goods are received
'for shipment assumes the obligation to pay the freight
charges; -and hi obligation is ordinarily a prinary one.
This is true even: where the bill of lading contains, as
here, a provision imposing liability upon the .consignee..
For the shipper is presumably the consignor; the transportation ordered by him is presumably on his own behalf; and a promise by'him to pay therefor is inferred
(that is, implied in fact), as a promise to pay.for goods
is implied, when one orders them from a dealer. But this
inference may be rebutted, as in the case of other contracts. It may be shown, by the bill of lading or otherwise, that the shipper of the goods was not acting on his-

own behalf; that this fact was known by the carrier; that
the parties intended not only'that the consignee should
assume an obligation to pay the freight charges, but that
the shipper should not assmine any liability whatsoever'
5 Pollard

v. Vinton, 105 U. S.7, 8; St. Louis, Iron, Mountain &
Southern,By.Co. v. Knight, 122 U. S. 79, 87; In the Matter of Bils
of Lading, 52 1. C. C.671, 681. Compare Mobie & Montgomery 1y.
Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S.584.

68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

therefor; 6 or that he should assume only a secondary
liability. In this case, the bills of lading acknowledge
receipt of the coke from the Central Company. But it did
not sign them. -Nor was it described therein as the consignor. There was no clause by which the shipper agrees
expressly either to pay thb freight charges or to guarantee
their payment. The goods received were not declared to
be deliverable to the Central Company's order. On the
contary, the form of the bills of lading indicated that it
was neither the owne nor the person on whose behalf
the shipment was being made; and that Tutwiler &
Brooks were either the owners or the persons in whose
behalf the shipment was being made. On these facts, the
trial court was justified in finding that the Central Company did. not assume the primary obligation to pay the
freight charges7
Union Freight B. R. Co. v. Winkley, 159 Mass. 133; Thomas v.
Snyder, 39 Pa. St. 317, 322; Wayland's Adin'r. v. Mosely, 5 A]a.
I

430; Chicago, Rock island & Gulf Ry. Co. v. Floyd, 161 S. W
(Tex. Civ. App.) 954. See Barker v. Havens, 17. Johns. 234, 237;
Grant v. Wood, 21 N. J. L. 292, 300. Compare Cincinnati,N. 0. &

T.7P.By. Co. v. Vredenburgh Saw MRII Co., 13 Ala. App. 442.
In most of the cases in the state courts and the lower federal
courts, relied upon by the carrier, either the facts on which the

shipper was held liable differed materially from those of the case at
bar; or because of the manner in which it was presented, the question
of law was different.
In Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville By. Co. v. Peterson, 168

Wis. 193, the bill of lading 'contained an express agreement that the
charges were guaranteed by the shipper. See also Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Queenan, 102 Neb. 391, 393, 398. In New York

Central R. R. Co. v. Federal Sugar Refining Co., 235 N. Y. 182;
New York Central R. R. Co. v. Philadelphia & Reading Coal &
Iron Co., 286 Ill. 267; and PortlandFicurihg Mills Co. v. British &

Foreign Marine Ins. Co., 130 Fed. 860, the goods were deliverable to

the shipper's order. In New York, New Haven, & HartfordR. R.
Co. v. ToneUa 79 N. Hl?. 464,r the goods were deliverable to a named
consignee, but the shipper was described as consignor and owner. In

Coal & -Coke Ry. Co. v. Buckhannon River Coal & Coke co., 77

L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON CO.
59

Opinion of the Court.

It is urged that, if the Central Company was not under
a primary obligation to pay the freight charges, it was'
secondarily liable, because collection from the Smelters
Corporation of the balance iemaining due had become
impossible before the undercharge was'discovered. But
the trial judge was not compelled so to find. There was
evidence that such collection had not become impossible.
Confessedly no effort was made to collect from it. Nor
was any effort made to collect from Tutwiler & Brooks.
Moreover, if 'a secondary obligation of the Central Company was to be implied from the fact of its causing the
W. Va. 309; Northern Pacfic ft. Co. v. PleasantRiver (Iranite Co.,
116 Me. 496, 498; Montpelier & We~ls River B, R. v. Bianchi &
Sons, 95 Vt. 81., tha goods were deliverable to a named consignie, but
the bill of lading was signed by the shipper in his own name. In
Boston & Maine R. R.'v. Nationd Orange Co., 232 Mass. 351, the
goods were deliverable to a named consignee, but he was the agent

of the shipper, who was also the owner. Atlas S. S. Co. v. Colombian
Land .Co., 102 Fed. 358. In Wooster v. Tart,. 8 Allen, 270, and

Great Northern By. Co. v. Hocking Valley Fire'Clay Co., 166 Wm.
465, the.consignee was named, but there was not in the bill of lading
(or -therwise) any indication to the carrier that the shipper'was
not acting on his own behalf. In Jelks v.Philadelphia& Reading Ry.
Co., 14 Ga. App. 96, the consignee was named but refused to accept
the shipmeat. In New York Central R. R. Co. v. Warren Ross
Lumber Co., 234 N. Y. 261; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul By. Co.
v. Greenberg,139 Minn. 428, and Waters v. Pfister & Vogel Leather
Co, 176 Wis. 16, it was the consignee who was held liable. In Georgia
R. R. v. Creety, 5 Ga. App. 424, the shipper appears to have been
also owner and consignee. In Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. By. Co. v.
Southern Coal & Coke Co., 147 Tenn. 433, 442, 452; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Stannard & Co., 99 Kan. 720, 725;
Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v. Picher Lead Co., 190 S. W. (Springfipld,
Mo., .Ct.App.) 387; Baltimore& Ohio Southwestern Ry. Co. v. New
Albany Box and Basket Co., 48 Ind. App. 647; and Wells Fargo &
Co. v. Cuneo, 241 Fed. 727, 729, it is erroneously assumed that the
mere fact of delivery of goods for shipment imports, under, the

Interstate Commerce Act, as matter of lkw, an absolute promise to
.pay the freight charges, and/or that an agreement to the contrary
is void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.

coke to be received: for transportation, the ]romise was
not necessarily one to pay at any time any freight charges
which the carrier might fiJnd it impossible to collect from
the consignee or his assign. The court might have concluded that it guaranteed merely that the consignee or
his assign would accept the shipment. For, under the rule
of the Fink Case, if a shipment is accepted, the consignee
becomes liable, as a matter of law, for the full amount of
the freight charges, whether they are demanded at the
time of delivery, or not until later. His liability satisfies
the requirements of the Interstate, Commerce Act.

Affirmed.

NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF WEST VIRGINIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF "PEALS
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

OF THE STATE

No. 187. Argued January 22, 1924.-Decided May 5, 1924.
1. A State constitutionally may requird a railroad carrier to provide
suitable facilities reasonably necessary for the removal' from its
premises of freight carried by it for its customers. P. 74. •
2. Facts held to justify an order of a state commission requiring a
. railroad company to construct -and maintain a crossing for the
use of vehicles to haul such.freight across its tracks. P. 72.
3. An order of this .kind ,did not violate the constitutional rights of
the carrier by requiring the shipper at whose instance it was made
to supply a gate to the crossing, to.be kept locked -by him when
the crossing was not in use, and to provide a watchmah to give
notice of approaching trams while the crossing was being used by
him for transportation of goods across.the tracks in -.ehicles; the
carrier not being prevented thereby from permitting use of the
crossing for other purposes or installing a watchman. of its own.
P. 75.
91 W. Va. 414,' affirmed.
* ERROR to a

judgment of the Supreme Coifrt of Appeals

of West Virginia sustaining an order of the Public Service

