196,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
265 U. S.

Syllabus.

would be to impose a double tax on the proceeds of the
two policies in this case over and above $40,000, i. e., an
income tax and an estate tax. Such a. duplication even
in an exigent war tax measure is to be avoided unless required by express words.
The judgment of the Court of Ckims is affirmed.
PACIFIC TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY
v. KUYKENDALL, AS DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC
WORKS OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THU DISTRICT COURT OF THE VNTIM STATES
FOR TB WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos. 540 and 789. Argued April 17, 1924.--Decided May 26, 1924.
I

1. When the jurisdiction of a state court to review orders of a commission fising rates is confined to determining -on the record
certified by the commission whether the order is lawful and reasonable and whether evidence was improperly excluded, without power
to pass on the weight or sufficiency of evidence or to enter any
new order in lieu of the one appealed from, the remedy is purely
judicial, and need not be invoked ly a party complaining of the
rates fixed as confiscatory, before seeking relief in a federal court.
Remington's Comp. Washington Stat. 1922, § 10428, considered.
"P. 200.
2. A state statute empowering a commission after hearing to refuse
an increase of rates proposed by a public utility, cannot, by forbidding supersedeas until a final judicial decree has been rendered
in the state courts, prevent recourse to a federal court for temporary relief by injunction. P. 201.
3. Under the law of Washington, Rem. Comp. Stat. 1922, § 10441,
providing for revision of administrative valuations of the property
of public utilities, the function of the state courts is not merely
judicial but also legislative, since they can pass upon the weight
of evidence, and can set aside a valuation and make a new one.
Ke7ler v. Potomac o., 261 U. S. 428. Id.
4. The fact that a public utility had resorted to the state courts,
acting legislatively, to chang6 a valuation of its property, would
not bar it from seeking relief in the federal court against rates
based on the valuation as approved by the state courts. P. 203.

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
Igo

197

Opinion of the Court.

5. Comity usually prevents seeking such relief in a federal court
before the legislative remedy in the state courts has been exhausted.
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210. P. 203. 6. But when a public utility, by reason of an order reinstating rates
which it sought to increase, is suffering daily from confiscation, and
under the state law (Rem. Comp. Stat. 1922, § 10429) no stay is
allowable pending revision by the state courts, comity does not
prevent relief by a federal court. P. 204.
7. A litigant whose constitutional rights are being invaded and to
whom a statute denies a supersedeas in the state tribunals may
properly base his application for equitabl% relief on the effect of
the statute and the presumption of its validity, and is not required
to establish that the state statute is not invalid under the state
constitution. Dawson v. Kentucky DistilleriesCo., 255 U. S. 288.
P. 205.
.8. Where appeal from an order refusing an interlocutory injunction
is followed by an appeal from a final decree dismissing the bill, on
the same ground, the first appeal should be dismissed and relief
be granted under the second. Id.
Reversed.
APPELS from decrees of the District Court refusing an
interlocutory injunction and dismissing the bill, in a. suit
to enjoin interference with increases of telephone rates.
Mr. Otto B. Rupp, with whom Mr. Frank T. Post, Mr.
H. D. Pillsbury, Mr. C. M. Bracelen and Mr. W. V.

Tanner were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. John H. Dunbar,Attorney General of the State of
Washington, Mr. Thos. I. L. Kennedy and Mr. Alex M.

Winston, with whom Mr. H. C. Brodie, Mr. J. M.
Geraghty and Mr. E. K. Murray were on the briefs, for
appellees.

MtR. CHIEF JUSTICE TArT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are two appeals from the District Court in the
same case involving the question of the confiscatorIy char-

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

acter of rates for telephone service within the State of
Washington and in the cities of Seattle and Tacoma, to
which rates the appellant company is limited by a refusal
of the Department of Public Works to permit an increase
thereof.. The Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company
is a corporation of 'California authorized to do business in
Washington and owning a plant covering the State. It
owns all the stock of the Home Telephone Company
which owns and operates the Spokane Exchange. A similar question as to confiscatory rates has arisen in respect
to that company and that exchange, but a separate bill
was filed by that company and is considered on' appeal
in a case reported next after this.
This bill by the Pacific Company seeks an injunction
against the Department of Public Works of the State.to
prevent it from interfering with the maintenance and collection of the increased rates the Company proposes in all
parts of Washington except Spokane. A court of three
judges was organized to hear the application for a temporary order. The suit depended for jurisdiction both on
the diverse citizenship of the parties and upon the averment that the order of the IOepartment of Public Works
if enforced would deprive the company of its property
without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The court set aside the temporary restraining order issued by the District Judge on the filing of the
bill and denied the application for temporary injunction.
Appeal was taken direct to this Court under § 266, Jud.
Code, as amended by the Act of March 3, 1913, c. 160,
37 Stat. 1013. After the denial of the temporary injunction, the District Judge heard the case on a motion to dismiss the bill and granted the motion, and from this final
decree a second appeal was taken.
The bill of complaint shows that on August 8, 1919,
the Public Service Commission of the State, the predecessor of the Department of Public Works, made an order

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.'
196

199

Opinion of the Court.

prescribing maximum rates and charges to be charged
by the Pacific Conipany on and after that date within the
State of Washington, which are made an exhibit to the
bill; that on September 20, 1922, the company filed a
schedule of rates with the Department of Public Works
increasing rates t5 be charged for exchange telephone.
service in all the exchanges owned by the company in
Washington; that the Department on September 24,
1922, suspended the rates for thirty days, and that after
numerots hearings as to their reasonableness, the Department by a majority of two members on March 31, 1923,
denied the increase. The bill further averred that the
fair and reasonable value of the property of the company
in Washington, not including the Spokane plant, was
$35,616,896, which includes $20,852,067 for the Seattle
plant, and $3,457,290 for that of Tacoma, and that this
estimate includes nothing for franchises and nothing for
going concern; that the fair annual return which the company was entitled to ern was eight per cent. on this
value, whereas the actual return was as follows:
Cost

Year
Year
Year
Year
Year
Year
Year
Year
Year

1919,
1919,
1919,
1920,
1920,
1920,
1921,
1921,
1921,

State of Washington ................ 4.97%
City- of Seattle .....................
3. 97%
City of Tacoma ..................... 98%
State of Washington ................ 4.42%
City of Seattle ..................... 1.85%
City of Tacoma ..................... 89%
State of Washington ................ 3.30%
City of Seattle ...................... 69%
City of Tacoma ....................
.8%

Year 1922, State of Washington ................

Year 1922, City of Seattle ......................
Year 1922, City of Tacoma .....................

Fair
value.

3.67%
2.66%
.81%
3.339
1.29%
.74%
2.58%
.529
.48%

3.17%

2.58%

199
89%

.15%
.75%

that such returns were confiscatory and a violation of the
rights of the company under the Fourteenth Amendment;
that therefore the order of March 31, 1923, Was void; that
the company had 'no adequate remedy at law; that, if an
attempt were made to enforce the rates it proposed t6.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

make, the Department of Public Works and others in
state authority, defendants, would, unless restrained by
the court, institute proceedings to compel compliance with
the confiscatory schedule, and that the company and its
officers and employees would be subjected to a multiplicity
of suits, and incur criminal penalties prescribed by the
laws of the State.
By the statutes of Washington (§ 10428, Remington's
*Comp. Stat. 1922), any complainant affected by any order
of- the Commission (now the Department), may within
thirty days apply to the, Superior Court of the proper
county for a writ of review "for the purpose of having its
reasonableness and lawfulness inquired into and determined." The Commission certifies the record upon which
the court is to enter judgment affirming or setting aside
the Commission's order. If reversed for failing to receive
proper evidence offered, the case is to be referred back to
the Commission to receive the evidence and enter a new
order. The court may remand any case reversed by it to
the Commission for further action. It is clear that the
function to be performed by the Superior Court under this
section is judicial. It does not fix rates or enter a new
order as to them. It does not pass on the sufficiency or
weight of evidence. It only looks into the reasonableness
and lawfulness of the order of the Commission and is to
determine whether evidence which should have been received was rejected, and in that case is to send the case
back to the Commission for a new order. The court does
not act legislatively.
Instead of applying to the Superior Court of the State
therefore, application was made by the bill herein to the
Federal District Court within the thirty days to restrain
the order of the Department as violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
By § 10424, Remington's Comp. Stat. 1922, relating to
the filing of tariffs increasing rates and providing for a

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
196

201

Opinion of the Court.

hearing on such proposed increase and the suspension of
the"If
schedule
pending the hearing, it is declared that:
the commission
shall at the conclusion of the hearing refuse to permit such increase, either in whole or in
part, no supersedeas shall be granted in any action or proceeding brought to review the order of the commission
pending the final determination of such action by the
superior court, or, if appealed to the supreme court, by
such supreme court."
It is apparent from these provisions that, after the Commission finally denied the increase of rates applied for,
the company had exhausted its administrative remedy to
avoid the alleged confiscatory rates under which it was
compelled to render the service. It had, therefore, no
recourse but to a court. Both by reason of diverse citizenship and because of the federal constitutional question
the federal court of equity was available to it. The state
statute forbidding a stay of proceedings until a final judicial decree was rendered, of course, could not prevent a
federal court of equity from affording such temporary
relief by injunction as the principles of equity procedure
required. The conditions set out in the bill, therefore,
seem to have made a case ripe for federal relief. Bacon
v. Rutland R. R. Co., 232 U. S. 134; Prendergastv. New
York Tel. Co., 262 U. S. 43, 48.
But it is urged that such relief is premature because the
rates, increase of which was refused, were reasonable, and
afforded an adequate return on the value of the property
of the company used in the public service as fixed by the
Commission in accord with the statutory procedure for
that purpose, and that the company still has a right to
appeal from the valuation of the Commission to the
Superior and Supreme Courts on the legislative question
of'that valuation.
Section 10441 of the State of Washington (Remington's
Comp. Stat., 1922) has elaborate provisions for the fixing

202

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

of the value of the property and equipment of a public
service company. The company is given thirty days'
notice of a hearing and is entitled to adduce evidence and
to have it transcribed and certified. The Commission is
*to render findings of fact in writing concerning all matters
concerning which evidence may be introduced tending to
show the value of the company's property used for the
public convenience. The company believing the findings
to be unfair, unwarranted or unjust, may go into the
Superior Court and have a writ of review of such findings
and their correctness, reasonableness and lawfulness inquired into and determined, and if the court finds them to
be "unjust, incorrect, unreasonable, unlawful or not supported by the evidence," it shall make "new and correct
findings" unless it sets them aside for refusing to receive
proper evidence, and returns them for new findings
thereon. The company is given the right of appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State which is given the same
power as the Superior Court as to the findings of the
Commission. The findings of the Commission as corrected by the courts are made admissible in evidence in
any action or proceeding except in matters of taxation,
and are to be conclusive evidence of the facts found under
conditions then existing and can only be controverted by
showing a subsequent change of conditions. Provision is
made for further hearings to ascertain betterments, improvements, extensions and -additions, and the values of
the property used by the company for interstate and for
intrastate business.
It is clear that the function of the courts in fixing the
valuation of the property of the public utility is not confined to a judicial review of the work of the Commission.
The courts are made part of the valuation tribunal, pass
on the weight of the evidence, and can set aside a valuation and make a new one. Keller v. Potomac.Co., 261
U. S. 428.

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
196

203

Opinion of the Court.

It is thus apparent that the contention of the Department and the state auth6rities that the company has not
exhausted its remedy to secure a change in the valuation
of the property by the Superior and Supreme Courts of
the State is correct, and that resort to them to change the
valuation would be no bar to a resort to a federal court
of equity to enjoin the enforcement of rates based upon
such valuation after it had been approved by the state
courts. It was on this ground that the District Court
held both on the application for a temporary injunction
before the three judges and upon the final dismissal that
the bill was premature, and could not be brought until
after the final confirmation of the valuation by the State
Supreme Court.
The District Court relied on the case of Prentis v.
Atlantic Coast Line'Co., 211 U. S.210. In that case, the
tribunal which fixed railroad rates that were the subject
of controversy consisted not only of a commission but of
the Supreme Court of the State on appeal, and the court
in reachinq its conclusion acted legislatively, as the commission did. It was held that as the complaining company had not exhausted its legislative remedy by appeal
to the Supreme Court of the State; for its final action in
the fixing of rates, comity, in absence of a controlling right
to the cbntrary, required that the federal court delay
remedy by injunction against the rates fixed until the
company-had invoked the conclusion of the State Supreme
Court in respect to them. So .iere it is contended thatuntil the Superior and Supreme Courts shall have finally
considered the correctness of the valuation upon which
the adequacy of the rates depends, comity requires that
the federal court shall stay its hand.
It is first objected to this view that the constitution of
the State of Waihfigton does not authorize its legislature
to vest its courts with the legislative power to fix rates,
and therefore that, after the Commission had fixed the

2d4

OCTOBER TERM, 1)23.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

valuation, furtler procedure in fixing valuation was void,
and there was no reason either'of comity or right which
should delay the remedy by a bill in a federal court.
Territory ex reZ. Kelly v. Stewart, 1 Wash. 98, 110; state
-ex rd. Seattle v. Public Service Commission, 76 Wash.
492, 500. It is our duty to avoid expressing an opinion
on such an issue under the constitution of Washington in
the absence of a clear decision by its highest court, if we
can do so; and we think we can.
-In the case before .us, the company is shown by the
averments of its bill to be suffering daily from confiscation
under the rates to which it is now limited. It has done
all it could to get relief and can not get it. The rates
here in question were in force for more than a year, the
company advanced them, the old rates were reinstated
by the Department of Public Works. In such a case then
there was no chance for a stay. By § 10429 (Remington's
.Comp. Stat., 1922) the pendency of any writ of review
does not of itself stay or suspend the operation of the

order of the Commission, but the Superior Court may
suspend the order, but no order suspending an order of
the Commission relating to rates, etc., can be made unless
the court finds that great or irreparable damage would be
done to the petitioner, and the section contains the following proviso:
"Provided, however, that when any rate has been in
force for any length of time exceeding one year, and such
rate is advanced by the public service company, and the
order of the commission reinstates such prior rate, in
whole or in part, no supersedeas shall be allowed in any
case from such order pending the final determination of
the cause in the superior court, or if appealed to the
supreme court by such supreme court."
Under such circumstances comity yields to constitutional right, and the fact that the procedure on appeal
in the legislative fixing of rates-has not-been concluded

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. KIY
196

NDALL.

205

Opinion of the Court.

Will not prevent a federal court of equity froiji suspending the daily confiscation, if it finds the case to justify it.
Oklahoma Gas Co. v. Russell, 261.U. S. 290,293. In such
a case the PrentisCase has no application. Love v. Atchison, etc. Ry. Co., 185 Fed. 321, 324, 325.
But it is argued that the courts of Washington have
inherent power to grant a supersedeas in such a case and
that §§ 10429 and 10424, supra, are invalid. As we have
declined to look into the validity of the legislative functions with which the Washington state courts are vested
in the valuation" sectiofis, so we decline to examine the
validity of these restraints upon those courts to grant
stays in cases of rates. A litigant whose constitutional.
rights are being invaded and to whom a statute denies a
supersedeas in the state tribunals may properly base his
application for equitable relief on the effect of the statute
and the presumption of its validity, and is not'required to
establish that the state statute is not invalid under the
state constitution.. Dawson v. Kentucky DistilleriesCo.,
255 U. S. 288, 296, presents an analogous case.
Nor does the provision of § 266 of the Judicial Code
(37 Stat. 1013, c. 160), that a suit in a state court to enforce the rate complained of accompanied by a stay, shall
suspend the proceedings in the federal court, prevent the
filing and prosecution of this bill, first becaiuse no such suit
seems to have been brought, and, even if it had been, there
certainly has been no stay of proceedings in the state court
as provided in that section.- Dawson v. Kentucky Distlleries Co., supra.
We think, therefore, that the District Court erred in
denying a temporary injunction under' § 266 on the ground
that the bill was premature.
But it is said that the appeal from the interlocutory
decree in No. 540 was merged in the appeal from the final
decree in No. 739, and therefore should be dismissed. A
motion was made for this purpose. We think that under

206

OCTOBER .TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.'

Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 44, this motion should be
granted; but it does not change the ultimate result, because the final decree of the District Court dismissing the
bill really turned on the same erroneous ruling of its prematurity as that upon which the temporary injunction
was denied and must be reversed for the same reasion.
After the case was reached in this Court, soniewhat extended argument was made in the later appeal to show
that the bill was defective in stating a case for equitable
relief even if it was n6t*premature. The argument is
based on objections which seeni to us to be rather makeweights, or afterthoughts, and are so unsubstantial that
we do not discuss them. The merits of the issue between
the parties can be developed after the case is Iemanded to
the District Court for further! proceedings.
Decree reversed and -cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this-opinion.

HOME TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY
OF SPOKANE v. KUYKENDALL, AS DIRECTOR
OF PUBLIC WORKS OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPELS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE tf[
FOR THE 'WESTER

STATES

DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos..539 and 790. Argued April 17, 1924:.--Decided May'26, 1924.
1. Upon appeal from decrees refusing an.interlocutory injunction
and tismissing the bill on demurrer, the court will not pais"upon
an issue not shown by the bill' but only by an opposing affidavit
used at the injunction hearing. P. 208.
2. Decided (in other respects) upon the authority of Pacific Telephone Co. v. Kuykendall, ante, 196.

Reversed.

APPEAS from decre6s of the District. Court refusing an
interlocutory injunction and finully dismissing on de,

