OCTOBER TERM, 192,

274

Syllabus.

265 U. S.

is not against the "bankrupt estate," if a composition follows. The claim is against funds deposited by the debtor
pursuant to abargain with his creditors. Allowance of a
claim is necessary to q(ualify one as a voter on the question of acceptance. Hence, provision for such allowance
had to be made. § 12a. But after the composition has
been confirmed, allowance of a claim is not necessary for
the purpose of establishing it as against the debtor, who
is then alone interested, if he has already admitted the
liability by including it in his schedule. Compare Haley
v. Pope, 206 Fed. 266. Here the offer was made within
three months of the adjudication. It confessedly extended to all scheduled creditors who should prove within
the year. X6 reason is shown why it should be limited to
these. In re Atlantic Construction Co.,; 228 Fed. 571;
Matter of Fox, 6 Amer. Bank. Rep. 525.
Where the offer of composition is not made until after
the expiration of the year the questioh may be different.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. ABILENE & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ETAL.
APPEAL FROM TIE DISTRICT COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 456.

Argued March 4, 1924.-Deided May 26, 1924.

1. An order made by a division of the Interstate Commerce Commission being operative, unless stayed by. the division or the full
Commission pending a rehearing by the latter, (amended Act to
Regulate Commerce, §§ 16a, 17 [4],) a suit to enjoin enforcement

of such an order is within the jurisdiction of the District Court,
and whether relief should be denied until the plaintiff, through
application for rehearing, shall have exhausted the administrative
remedy, is a matter of judicial discretion. P. 280.
2. In a proceeding under § 15 (6) of the amended Interstate Commerce Act in which the Commission readj1sted the divisions of
joint rates as between a carrier and its several immediate con-

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

Syllabus.

nections, the other carriers participating in the joint rates, -,;hose
shares were left unchanged, were not necessary parties. P. 282.
3. In determining just divisions, the Commission must consider relative cost of service; whether a particular carrier is an originating,
intermediate or delivering line; the efficiency of operation of each
carrier; the revenue it requires for operation expenses, taxes and•
a fair return; public importance of the transportation services
involved; aud any other facts which would ordinarily, without
regard to mile haul, entitle one barrier to a greater or ks proportion than another. P. 284.
4. The financial needs of a weaker road may also be taken into consideration in dettermining divisions of joint rates. Id.
5. The mere fac. that increased divisions allowed a carrier were
-measured by percentages of the revenues of the several connecting
carriers from the joint traffic, does not establish that the division
is unjust or guided solely by relative financial ability. P. 285.
6. An order increasing the divisions of a carrier is not arbitrary
merely because the. corresponding decreases are confined to the
carriers immediately connecting with it, these having the right to
apply for further readjustment as between themselves and remoter
carriers. P. 286.
7. An order of the Commission is not invalidated by the mere admission as evidence of matter which in judicial proceedings would
be incompetent. P. 288.
8. But a finding without 6vidence is beyond the power of the Commission. Id.
9.Reports of carriers on the Commission's files cannot be treated
as c idence when not introduced .as such, in a proceeding which,
though initiated by the Commission primarily to proect the public
interest, mak result in an order in favor of one carrier as against
another. Id.
10. Rule XIII of the Commission does not purport to relieve the
Commission from introducing, by specific reference, such parts of
the reports of carriers, properly on file, .asitwishes to treat as
evidence. P. 289.
11. The right of carriers to insist that contieration by the Commission of matter not in evidence fivplidates its order is not lost
by their submission of the case withouo argument or their consent to omission of a tentative report by the examiner. Id.
12. A general notice given at the hearing by an examiner that the
Commission would rely upon voluminous annual reports previously

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for It. Com. Comm.

265 U. S.

fIled with the Commission by plaintiff carriers pursuant to law,
held tantamount to no notice whatever of evidence used against

them. P. 289.
13. The divisions of joint rates may be determined on the basis of
individual rates and divisions, shown by tariffs and division sheets
and found sufficiently typical in character and ample in quantity
to justify findings as to each division of each rate of every carrier
involved, (New England Divisidn Case,*261 U. S. 184;) but it
cannot be inferred because the joint rates and divisions between particular cL:riers work injustice in the aggregate, that each particular
division of each rate is unjust, and in like proportion. P. 290.
288 Fed. 102, affirmed.

APPFAL from a decree of the District Court perpetually
enjoining the enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Mr. Clifford Histed, with whom Mr.E. A. Boyd was on
the brief, for Kemper, Receiver of the Kansas .City,
Mexico & Orient Railroad Company, and Kansas City,
Mexico & Orient Railway Company of Texas, interveners.
Mr. T. 1. Norton and Mr. M. G. Roberts, with whom
Mr. GardinerLathrop and Mr. W. F. Evans were on the
briefs, for appellees.
Mr. J. CarterFort,with whom .Mfr.P. J. Farrellwas on
the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Bringing suit before applying for a rehearing by the
full Commission was not the "proper and orderly course,"
and was not in keeping with "equitable fitness and propriety." Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S.
210. This Court should not be called upon to review orders of a-division of the Commission, which the full Coin.mission has authority to reheat' and reverse (Interstate
Commerce Act, §§ 16a, 17[4]), unless application has
been made for such rehearing.
The question of the reasonableness of divisions was
properly before the Commission.
The Commission, in fixing divisions, may consult, in the
public interest, the financial needs of the carriers, and is

U. S. v. 'ABILENE & SO. Mr. CO.
274

Argument for lit. Com. Comm.

not restricted to a c6nsiderition"of the amount and cost
-of transportation service performed by each'carrier. Interstate Commerce Act, § -15(6); New England Divisions
Case, 261 U. S.. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v.
UnitedStates, 263 U. S.456; United States v. Illinois Cen-.
tral R. R. Co., 263 U. S.515.
The fact that the Commission considered certain in*formation shown in the annual reports made by appellees
to the Comm.ssion, which were not forn'tally.introduced
in evidence, does not invalidate its order.
During t~e early part of the hearing, the examiner announced that the Commission woula refer to these reports
in its consideration of the case. - The record leaves no
doubt that his statement was well understood at the,
time.
What the Commission did was not in violation of Rule

XII.
The Commission is not bound by strict and technical
rules of evidence such as prevail in the law courts. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S.25; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisvgle &.Nashville R. R.
Co., 227 U. S.88; Spiller v. Atchison, etc., Ry. Co., 253
U. S. 117; Interstate Commerce Comm. v..Chicago, etc.,
By.Co., 218 U. S.88.
The evidence showed, for the period of a yeal, the
amount of service jointly*performed by the Orient and
each of its connections, and the part of such service performed by each; the joint revenue arising from the joint
service and how it was divided.
In this case the Commission came much nearer to
specific treatment than ih the New England Divisions
Case, because here it dealt separately with each connection arid considered, as between it and the Orient, the
relative aggregate services and revenues therefrom and
the relative average revenues per ton-mile.
The Commission made adequate irovislon to correct injustices which might be found to arise from the compre-

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

hensive manner in which it was necessary to deal with the
subject. See Wisconsin R. B. Comm. v. Chicago, etc.
B. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; New England Divisions Case,
supra. It retained jurisdiction of the case for the express
purpose of making such inodifications of its order.
The Commission's finding did not rest solely upon evidence relating to the financial needs of the Orient and its
several connections; the evidence relating strictly to
iransportation matters tended to show that the Orient's
divisions were unjust.
The Court will not examine the facts further than to
determiine whether there was substantial evidence to sustain the order. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Union
PacificB. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541; New England Divisions
Case, 261 U. S. 184.
The Commission is an expert body, informed by experience in-matters of rates and railroad statistics. Its
findings are f6rtified by presumptions of truth. O'Keefe
v. United States, 240 U. S. 294; Interstate Commerce
Comm. v. Chicago, etc. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88; New England Divions Case, supra.
"The order is not arbitrary because the divisions of
certain appellees were decreased by greater percentages
*thanthe divisions of others.'
There is no showing that the Commission's order will
-result in confiscation. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co.,
212 U. S. 1.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Blackburn.Esterline,
Aqsistant to the Solicitor General, :and Mr. Clifford.
Histed, Special Assistant to the Attorney. General, filed a,
brief on behalf of the United States.
Mm..Jusricz BRn-nIs delivered the opinion of the
Curt.
This is an appeal by the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission from a decree of- the federal

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

Opinion of the Court.

courf for Kansas which perpetually eiijoined the enforcement of .an order made by the Commissioh, on August 9,
1922, under § 15(6) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended by Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, § 418, 41
Stat. 456, 480. The order relates to the divisions of
interstate joint rates on traffic interchanged, within the
United States, by the Kansas City, Mexico & Orient system. with thirteen carriers whose lines make direct connection with it. The oider provides that on all such
interchanged traffic the existing divisions of these carriers
shall be reduced by a fixed per cent.; and that the Orient
shall receive the amount so taken from its connections 1
The order, als6, directed the .Orient and the connecting
carriers to make, at stated intervals, reports of the financial results of the divisions ordered; permitted any carrier
to except itself froni the order, in whole or in' part, by
proper showing; and retained jurisdiction in the Commission "to adjust on basis of such reports the divisions
herein prescribed or'stated, if such adjustment shall to.
us seem proper." Kansas City, Mexico & OrieV4 Division, 73 I. C. C. 319, 329.
The order was entered after an investigation into the
financial needs of the Orient system, undertaken by the
'The percentage of the reduction prescribed in respect to the several carriers ranges from 10 to 30 per cent. 'Thus, the Missouri
Pacific's division wai shrunk 20 per cent. It was estimated that

the resulting reduction of its revenues would be $115,789M22. Tha6t
amount, added to the existing share of the Orient on this traffic,
would increase its division, on weighted average, over 14%. The
Texas & Pacdifi's division was also shrunk 20%. The estimated
resulting reduction of i

revenues would be $121,140.81. But that.

amount added to the existing share of the Orient on this traffie would
increase its division about 25%. The order differs from that upheld
in New England Diviqow Case, 261 U. . 184, which prescribed a
percentage increase of the division of the New England roads and
directed that the amount of the increase be taken from the existing
shares of the several connecting carriers.'

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

Commission in April, 1922, pursuant to an application of
the receiver of the Kansas City, Mdxico & Orient Railroad
Company and an affiliated Texas corporation. It appeared (and was not denied) that the public interest
demanded continued operation of the railroad; that the
revenues were insufficient to pay operating expenses,; that
the operation was being efficiently conducted; and that
unless relief were afforded by increasing the Orient's
division of joint rates and/or otherwise, operation would
have to be suspended and the railroad abandoned 2 The
thirteen carriers who brought this, suit participated in
the investigation undertaken by the Commission; and
supplied certain statistical information requested of them..
But they introduced no evidence before the Commission;
and the case was submitted there without argument.
None of the connecting cariers made application to be
excepted from the order. Nor did any of them apply for
a rehearing. *Before the effective date of the order, this
suit was begun. On application for a temporary injunction, it was heard by three judges, pursuant to the Act of
October 22, 1913, c. 32,38 Stat. 208,220; and a temporary
injunction was granted. Upon final hearing, motions of
the defendants to dismiss the bill were*denied; the injunction was made permanent; and a rehearing was refused.
288 Fed. 102.
First. The Commission moved, in the District Court,
to dismiss the bill on the ground that the suit was premature. The contention is that, under the rule of Prentiz
v. Atlantic ibast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, orderly procedure required that, before invoking judicial review, the
'These needs had been the subject of'repeated enquiries by the
.Commission in connection with the granting and the renewal of a
loan from the United States under § 210 of Transportation Act, 1920.
Loan to Kansas City, Mexico & Orient Railroad, 65 I. C. C.36;
ibid, 265; 67 I. 0. C.23; Loan to the Receiver of Kansas City,
Mexico & Orient Railroad,70 1.C.C.639; ibid, 646.

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

Opinion of the Court.

carriers should have exhausted the administrative remedy
afforded by a petition for rehearing before the full Commission. The investigation and order were made, not by
the whole Commission, but by Division 4V The order of
a division has "'the same force and effect... as if
made ... by the commission, subject to rehearing by
the commission." Interstate Commerce Act as amended,
§ 17(4). Any party may apply for such rehearing of
any order or matter determined. § 16a. Meanwhile,
the order may be suspended either by the Division
or by the Commission. In this case, the order, by
its terms, was not' to become effective until 37 days
after its entry. There was, -consequently, ample time
within which to apply for a rehearing and a stay,
before the plaintiffs could have bedn injured by the
order.
Division 4 consists of four members. There are eleven
members on the full Commission. Under these circumstances, what is here called a rehearing resembles an appeal to another administrative tribunal. An application
for a rehearing before the Commi~ion would have been
clearly appropriate.- The objections to the validity of the
order now urged are in part procedural. They include
*See Lnterstate Commerce Act as amended, § 17; Annual Report
of the Commission (1920), pp. 3-6; Chicago Junction,Case, 264 U. S.

258, 261, note 3.
4 See Rules of Practice before the Commission, 1916, pp. 16, 23;
1923, pp. 18, 28. For instances of cases which were hiard by a Division and later reheard by the.Commission, see: E. L Dupont de Ne-

mours Powder Co. v. Houston & Brazos Valley R.R. Co., 47 1.C.0.
221; 52 I. C. C.538; Rockford Paper Box Board Co. v. Chicago,
M. & St.P. By. (o., 49 I. C. 0. 586; 55 I. C. C.262; Steinhardt -

Kelly v. Erie R. R. o., 52 I. C. C. 304; 57 I. C. C.369; Quinton
Spelter Co. v. Fort Smith & Western R. R. Jo., 53 L C.C. 529; 61
I. C.0.43; Empire Steel & Iron Co. v. DirectorGeneral, 56 1.C.0.
158; 62 L 0. C. 157; John Kline Brick Co. v. Director General, 63
1.C.C.439; 771. C.C.420.

. 282

-OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S. •

questions of joinder'of parties, of the admissibility of evidence, and of failure to introduce formal evidence. Most
-of the objections do not appear to have been raised before
the Division. If they had been, allegdd errors might have
been corrected by action of that body or by the full Commission. The order involved also a far-reaching question
of administrative power and policy which, so far as appears, had never been passed upon by the full Commission, and was not discussed by these plaintiffs before the
Division. In view of these facts, the trial court would
have been justified in denying equitable relief until an
application had been made to the full Commission, and.
redress had been denied by it. But, in the absence of a.
*stay, the order of a division is operative; and the filing
of an application for a rehearing does not relieve the
carrier from the duty of observing an order 5 Despite
the failure'to apply for a rehearing, the court had jurisdiction to entertain this suit. . Prendergast v. New
York Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43, 48, 49. Compare.
Chicago Rys. Co. v. Illinois Commerce Commission,
277 Fed. 970, 974. Whether it shoulc have denied
relief until all possible administrative remedies had
been exhausted was a matter which called for the exercise of its judicial discretion. We cannot say that, in
denying the motion to dismiss, the discretion. was,
abused.
Second. Thb plaintiffs contend -that the order is void,
because only a part of the carriers who participated in the
joi t rates were made parties to the proceedings before
the Commission. Section 15(6) provides that where ex- •
isting divisions are found to be "unjust . . . as between the carriers parties thereto :. . the Commission shall by order prescribe the just, reasonable, and
equitable divisions thereof to be received by the several
See Interstate o.mmercb Act as amended, § 16a.

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY -CO.
274

Opinion .ofthe Court.

carriers." More than 170 carriers participated in the joint
rates in question.' Of these only 39 carriers, whose roads
lie wholly west of the Mssissippi River, were made respondents before the Commission. The argument is that
all who are parties to the through rates are necessarily
interested in the-divisions of those rates; that failure to
join some is not rendered immaterial by the fgct that the
order made affects directly only those before the Commission, since it -wouldbe open to a catrier whose division
is reduced, to seek contribution later by a proceeding -to
readjust the divisions as between it and, other carriers
who were not parties to the origimal case; and that an
order under this section is invalid unless it dislose- completely of the matter in controversy. This argument is
answered by what was:said in New ,ngleauV'Divi ons
Case, 261 U. S. 184, 201, 202. The order, in terins, afects
only the 13 carriers whose lines connect directl r with the
Orient system. Only their divisions were reduced. The
shares of all others who participated in the joint rates
were .left unhanged. * All paticipating carriers might
properly have been made respondents. But that was not
essential.. For.it was not necessary that all controversies
which -may cdnceivably arise should be settled in a single
proceeding. There was no defect of parties in the pro*ceedirig before.he Commission."
"'The case is wholly unlike those in-which it is held that where a
shipper attaeks.a through rate all participating carrierp must be made
respondents,.ev~n though the througa rate is iadi up of separately.
established elements. The complainant may wish to direct his.attick
only.against one of these.. But it is only th1e through ate wbibh is in
isue. It may be reasonable although one of its elements is not. It
'must stand or fall as an entirety. Seetetens Grocer Co. v. St. Lous,
Iron Mountain & Sbuthem By.Co., 42 I. C.C..396,.398; AfoDavitt'
Bros. v. St. Lo is,
BrownwsNie & Mexico Ry. o.,.43 I. C. C. 69&;
La Crosse.Shippers'Assoc. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul.R. Co.,
43 1.C.C.605, 607; . L Dupont de Na.nours. Pqwder Co. v. Pinnsylvania B.:. Co., 43 I. Q C. 227; Nmnare Star Grain L
Lumber.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

65 U. S.

Third. The plaintiffs contend that the order is void because made on a bagis which Congress did not and could
not 'authorize.7 The 'argument is that Transportation
Act, 1920, requires earnings under joint rates to be divided
according to what is fair and. reasonable as between the
parties; that what is so must be determined by the relative amount and cost of the service performed by each of
the several railroads; and that the Commission, ignoring
this basis of apportionment and making the determination in the public interest, gave to the needy Oriept system larger divisions merely because the connecting carriers
were more prospeious. Relative cost of service is not the
only factor to be considered in determining just -divisions.
The Commission must consider, also, whether a particular
carrier is an originating, intermediate or delivering line;
the efficiency with which the several carriers are operated;
the amount of'revenue required to pay their respective
operating expenses, taxes, and a fair return on their railwy property; the importance to'the public of the transportation service of such carriers; and other facts, if aiy,
which would, ordinarily, without regard to mileage haul,
entitle one carrier to a greater or less proportion than
another of the joint rate It is settled that in determining what the divisions should be, thle Commission

may, in the public interest, take into consideration the
financial needs of a weaker road; and that it may be'
Co. v. Atchis., T. & S. F. R.

Co., 14 . C.'C.364, 371; Indianapolis-'

Chamber of Commerce v. Cleveland, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis
Ry. Co., 46 1. C. C. 547, 556; Johnson & Son v. St. Louis-San Fran-.
cisco Ryj. Co.; 51 I. C. C. 518, 520.
'Comjare Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commisdon, 219 U.S. 433, 443; New England Divisio Case, 261 U.S. 184,
189; United States v. Illinois Central R. R.'Co., 263 U. S. 515, 525.
8
Compare New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S.. 184, 193-195;
Wichita Northwestern R. Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific By.

Co., 81 I. C. C.513, 517.

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

286

Opinion of the Court.

given a division larger than justice merely as between the
parties would suggest "in order to maintain it in"
effective
operation as part of an adequate transportation system,"
provfded the share left to its connections is "adequate to"
avoid a comfiscatory result." Dayton-Goose Creek Ry.
Co. y. United States, 263 U. S. 456, 477; New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 194, 195. It was not contended before the Commission that a reduction of the
carriers' divisions would reduce their rates below .what is
compensatory.9 There is in the record no evidence on
which it could be determined that any. of the divisions
ordered will result in confiscatory rates. And there is
nothing in the order which prohibits rate increases. Compare United States v. Illinois CentralR. R. Co., 263 U. S.
515, 526.
The assertion is made that the Commission was guided
solely by the relative financial ability of the several'carriers. In support of this assertion it is pointed out that
the increase ordered of the Orient's share was measured,
not by a percentage of its own divisions, as in New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, but by a percentage of the revenues of the several connecting carriers
from the joint traffic. 0 It does not follow that such .a
basis of division would necessarly be unjust to the connecting carriers. The position of the Orient.as the originating carrier, or as the delivering carrier, or as an indis'These joint rates had been recently raised. Increased Rates,

1920, Ex parte 74, 58 I C. C. 220. There were reductions later.
See Reduced Rates, 1922,,68 I. C.C.676; 69 I. C. C. 138.

20 This, they illustrate by an hypothetical case of a*$1 rate from a
station on the Orient to a station on the Santa Fe f6r which existing
divisions are 20 cents to the Orient and 80 cents to the Santa Fe.
An increase of the Orient's 'division 25 per cent. would have reduced
the Santa Fe's division only 614 per cent.; while the order made,
by reducing the Santa Fe's division 25 per cent., increases that of the
Orient 100 per cent.

286

OCTOBER 'PERM, 1923.
Opinion of fhe Court..

265 U. S.

pensable inter~aediate carrier, might be such that the
connecting carrier could not get the traffiec but for-the
service which the *Orient renders; and that this factor,
together with others ignored in the existing divisions,
would require the precise change directed tc, render the
divisions just and-reasonable as between the parties. It
i% also, pointed out that the contributions to be made by
the connecting carriers bore a direct relation to their
prosperity. But it does not appear that the Commissibn
based its finding solely on the financial needs of the
Orient and the financial condition of the connecting

carriers.
Invalidity of the order is urged on the further ground
that the Commission made the incidental fact of physical
connection with the Orient the sole test for determining
which carriers should have their divisions reduced; and
that such action is clear]fy arbitrary. It-is true that the
order affects, in teriis, 'only the 13 carriers whose lines
have direct connection ivith the Orient; but it does not
follow that the action was arbitrary. These connecting
carriers have a demonstrable interest in having the operation of the Orient continued. Other carriers doubtless
have an interest;- but it is less certain. It is open to any
of these 13 carriers to iustitute proceedings before the
Commission with a view to securing a partial distribution
of their burden among other connecting carriers. Conmpare United States v. Illinofs Central R. R. Co., 263
U. S. 515, 526. The basis of division adopted by the
Commission is -not shown to be, -in any respect, inconsistent with the rule declared in New Englznd .Divions
-Case, 261 U. S. 184. Nor is it shown that the Commission ignored any factor of which consideration is required
by the act.
Fourth. The plaintiffs contend that the order is void
because it rests uponi evidence not legally before the Commission. It is "coceded that the finding rests, in part,

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

Opinion of the Court.

upon data" taken from the annual reports filed with the
Commission by the plaintiff carriers pursuant to law; that
these reports were not formally put in evidence; that the

parts containing the data relied upon were not put in
evidence through excerpts; that attention was not other-wise specifibally called to them; and .that objection to
the use of the reports, under these cireumstances, was
seasonably made by the carriers and was insisted upon.
The parts of the annual reports in question were .used as
evidence of facts which it was deemed necessary to prove,
not as a means of verifying facts of which the Cbrm-

mission, like a court, takes judicial notice. The con-

tention of the Commisdion is that, because its able examiner gave.notice that "no doubt it will be necessary
to refer to the annual reports of all thesb carriers," its
Rules of Practice1 2 permitted matter in the reports to
11SThese include for each of the carriers
the data showing for the
year 'freight tons, one mile; passengers, one mile; all revenue car
miles; all revenue train miles; the total operating revenue; total
operating ecpenses; net revenue and invetment in road and'equipment; and they involved calculation of the respective gross revenues
per ton mile, per car mile, per train mile; operating expenses per
train mile, per car mile, per ton mile; net revenue per ton mile, per
car mile, per train mile; the return per t1,000 of investment, on the
gross revenue, the net revenue and the railway operating income; the
percentage of return on the gross revenue, the net. revenue and, the
operating income. The net railway operating income for each of the
lines is in the record.
SRule XIII, as in force prior to the Revision of December 10,
1923, provides, in part:
"Where relevant and material matter offered in evidence is embraced in a document containing other matter not material or
relevant and not intended to be put in evidence, such document
will not be received, but the party offering the same shall present
to opposing counsel and to the Commission .frue copies of such
material and relevant matter, in proper form, which may be received in evidence and become part of the record.
"In case any portion of a tariff, report, circular, or. other document on file with the Commission is offered in evidenm.e, the party

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

be used as freely as if the data had been formally introduced in evidence.
The mere admission by an administrative 'ibunal of
matter which under the rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings would be deemed incompetent does
not invalidate its order. Interstate Commerce Commission,v. Baird,194 U. S. 25, 44; Spiller v. Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe By. Co., 253 U. S. 117, 131. Compare
Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 157. But a finding
without evidence is beyond the power of the Commission.
Papers in the Commission's files are not always evidence
in a case. New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184,
198, note 19. Nothing can be treated as evidence which
is hot introduced as such. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88,
91, 93; ChicagaJunction Case, 264 U. S. 258. If the proceeding had been, in formn, an adversary one commenced
by the Orient system, that carrier could not, under Rule
XIII, have introduced the annual reports as a whole.
For they contain much that is not relevant to the matter
in issue. By the terms of the rule, it would have been
obliged to submit copies of such portions as it deemed
material; or to make specific reference to the exact portion to be used. The fact that the proceeding was technically an investigation instituted by the Commission
offering the same must give specific reference to the items or pages
and lines thereof to be considered. The Commission wll take
notice of items in tariffs and annual or other periodical reports of
carriers properly on file with it or in annual, statistical, and other
official reports of 'the Commission. When it is desired to direct the
Commission's attention to such tariffs or reports upon hearing or
in briefs or argument it must be done -with the preciion specified
in the second preceding sentence. In case any testimony in other
proceedings than the one on hearing is introduced in evidence, a copy
of'such testimony must be presented as an exhibit. When exhibits
-of a documentary character are to be offered in evidenqe copies
'should be furnished opposing counsel for use at the hearing."

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

289

Opinion of the Court.

would not relieve the Orient, if a party to it, from this
requirement. Every proceeding is adversary, in substance, if it my result in an order in favor of one carrier
as against another. Nor was the proceeding under review any the less an adversary one, because the primary
purpose of the Commission was to protect the public
interest through making possible the continued operation
of the Orient system. The fact that it was on the Commission's own motion that use was made of the data in
the annual reports is not of legal significance.
it is sought to justify the procedure followed by the
clause in Rule XIII which declares that the "Commission
will take notice of items in tariffs and annual or other
periodical reports of carriers properly on file". But this
clause does not mean that the Commission will take judicial notice of &1I the facts contained in such documents.
Nor does it purport to relieve the Commission from introducing, by specific reference, such parts of the reports
as it wishes to treat as evidence. It means that as to these
items there is no occasion for the parties to serve copies.
The objection to the use of the data contained in the
annual reports is not lack of authenticity or untrustworthiness. It is that the carriers were left withoilt
notice of the evidence with which they were, in fact,
confronted, as later disclosed by the finding made. The
requirement that in an adversary proceeding specific reference be made, is essential to the preservation of the
substantial rights of the parties. 3
The right of the carriers to insist that the consideration
of matter not in evidence invalidates the order was not
lost by their submission of the case without argument and
I Its observance will not hamper the Commission in the performance of its duties. For, if the materiality of some fact in a
report is not discovered by the Commission until after the close of
the hearing, there is power to reopen it for the purpose of introducing the evidence.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

by their acquiescing in the suggestion that the presentation of a, tentative report by the Examiner be omitted.
While the course pursued denied to the Commission the
benefit of that full presentatioi of .the contentions of
the parties which is often essential to the exercise of
sound judgment, it cannot be construed as a waiver by
the carriers of their legal rights. The general notice that
the Commission would rely upon the voluminous annual.
reports is tantamount to giving no notice, whatsoever.
The matter improperly treated as evidence may have
been an important factor in the conclusions reached by
the Commission. The order must, therefore, be held void.
Fifth. A further objection of the carriers should be
considered. They point out that the record dges not contain any tariffs showing the individual joint rates, or
any division sheets showing how these individual joint
rates are divided, nor 6ny information concerning the
amount of service performed by the Orient and its sev-.
eral connections under such individual joint rates. As
justification for this omission, it is argued that there are
in the record exhibits,' furnished by the several carriers,
containing data from which the Commission could reach.
a conclusion as to whether or not the divisions, taken as
a whole, were equitable as between the Orient and its
several connections "'; that in a general rate case, evidence
"The exhibits showed for the year 1921, the volume of traffic
moving on joint rates and interchanged between the Orient and each
of its direct connections; the part of the joint service performed
by the Orient and the part performed by its connection; the revenue arising from the joint service, and how that revenue was divided.

For example: The exhibits showed that, during 1921, the Santa Fe
and the Orient interchanged 26,278 tons of freight; that with
respect to such freight the Orient performed 8,162,294 ton miles
of transportation and the Santa Fe 5,793,098 ton miles; .that the
revenue arising from this joint service was $218,827.71, of which
the Orient received $106,889.59 and the Santa Fe $111,938.12; that
the per ton mile revenue of the Orient .was 1.309 cents and the
per ton mile revenue of the Santa Fe 1.932 cents.

U. S. v. ABILENE & SO. RY. CO.
274

Opinion of the Court.

""de~med typical of the whole rate structure"
will support
a finding as to each rate in the strctuie by raising a
rebuttable presumption concerning each rate; that typit
cal "evidenie" in this sense means, not evidence directly
representative of every individual rate, but evidence tending to show the general situation;. that a like presumption arises in a division case; that the data dealing with
the traffic in the aggregate, which was furnished by the
exhibits, constituted such typical evidence; that, in this
proceeding, information c6ncerning individual rates and
divisions was not essential; and that the course pursued
by the examiner ii, in substance, that upheld in the New
England Divisions Ca.e, 261 U. S. 184,. 196-199.
The argument is not sound. The power conferred by
Congress on the Commission is that of determining, in
respect to each joint rate, what divisions will be just.
Evidence of individual rates or divisions, said to be typical of all, affords a basis for a finding as to any one. But
averages are apt to be misleading. It cannot be inferred
that every existing division of every joint rate is unjust
as between particular, carriers, because the aggregate result.of the movement of the traffic on joint rates appears
to be unjust. These aggregate results should properly be
taken into consideration by the Commission; but it was
not proper to accept them as a substitute for typical evidence as to the individual joint rates and divisions. In
the New England Divisions Case, tariffs and division
sheets were introduced which, in the opinion of the Commission were typical in character, and ample in quantity,
to justify the findings made in respect to each division of
each rate of every carrier. A like course should have
been pursued in the proceeding under review.
Affirmed.

