254

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

We can not conclude that mere change for purposes of
reorganization in the technical ownership of.an enterprise,
under circumstances like those here disclosed, followed by
issuance of new certificates, constitutes gain separated
from the original capital interest. Something more is
necessary--something ivhich gives the stockholder a thing
really different, from what he theretofoe had. Towne v.
Eisner, 245 U. S. 418; Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247
U. S. 330; Gulf Oil Corporationv. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71.
The sale of part of the new stock and distribution of the
proceeds did not.affect the nature of the unsold portion;
when distributed this did not, in truth represent any gain.
Considering the entire arrangement we think it
amounted to a financial reorganization under which each
old stockholder retained half of his interest and disposed
of the remainder. Questions of taxation must be determined t y viewing what was actually done, rather than the
declared purpose of the participants; and when applying
theprovisions of the Sixteenth Amendment and income
laws enacted thereunder we must regard matters of substance and not mere form.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE Hoiz.Es and MR. JUsTICE BRANDEIS dissent on the ground that the case falls within the rule declared in Cullinanv. Walker, 262 U. S. 134.

HIXON v. OAKES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE SECOND
APPELLATE DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No.420. Argued April 24, 1924.-Decided May 26,1924.
A city ordinance forbidding the filling of prescriptions calling for
more than eight ounces of alcoholic liquor, manifestly does not
infringe any right of the pharmacist granted by the Eighteenth

HIXON v. OAKES.
254

255

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment or the National Prohibition Act and protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Writ of error to review 61 Cal. App. 200, dismissed.

EnoR to a; judgment of the District Court of Appeal,
of California, remanding the plaintiff in error, in a habeas
corpus proceeding.
Mr. Ray E. Nimmo for plaintiff in error.
Mr. 3. M. Friedlander and Mr. S. W. Odell'for defendant in error.
Mr. E. C. Brokmeyer, by leave of Court, filed a brief as
amicus curiu..
MR. JUSTICE McREYwoJs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Plaintiff in error, a regularly licensed pharmacist, was
convicted of violating, September 8, 1921, an ordinance
of Los Angeles construed to forbid the filling of a prescription which called for more than eight ounces of alcoholi!c
liquor.
After sentence, under permitted practice, he challenged
the validity of the ordinance by a habeas corpus pror
ceeding commenced in the District Court of Appeal upon
'the ground that it "is unconstitutional and void because
it is in violation of the terms of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and in
violation of the terms of the National Prohibition Act,"
c. 85, 41 Stat. 305.
Having declared, "the single question presented for
decision is whether the ordinance, insofar as it relates to
the filling of prescriptions by licensed- pharmacists, is
valid and 6nforceable since the adoption of the Eightcenth Amendment and the enactment of the National
Prohibition Law, commonly known as the Volstead Act,"

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 [. S.

the District Court of Appeal afirmed the validity of the
ordinance and remanded plaintiff in error. Thereupon
he sued out this writ of error. The assigment of errors
alleges a conflict between the ordinance and the Fourteenth as well as the Eighteenth Amendment.
The petition for habeas corpus did not mention the
Fourteenth Amendment. The opinion of the court below
indicates it was there maintained that Congress by the
Volstead Act granted some right or privilege which is
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment and may not be
abridged by State or municipality.
We do not stop to decide whether, considering plaintiff in error's clear right through a new petition to secure
from the Supreme Court of California an unembarrassed
determination of the question presented below (Matter
of Zany, 164 Cal. 724), the assailed judgment is one "in
the highest court of a State in which a decision in the
suit could be had," within ยง 237, Judicial Code. It is
ejiough now to say that he has failed to raise any substantial federal question; and for that reason the writ cf
error must be dismissed. Neither the Eigbteenth Amendment nor the'Volstead Act grants the right to tell intoxicating liquors within a State. And certainly nothing
in that Act lends color to the suggestion that it endows a*
pharmacist with the right to dispense liquors for which
he may claim the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We go no further than to consider the points definitely
raised upon the record and dispose 6f the present writ.
Dismissed.

