PACIFIC GAS CO. v. $AN FRANCISCO.
393

403

Syllabus.

the ame. Had -thecburt done so without the stipulation,
that might have been'an error in the exercise of jurisdiction, but it would not hav&worked an, entire diability to

proceed to a trial and judgment. And had. the accused
• been acquitted it hardly would .be said that the acquittal.
was void. The stipulation did not alter the situation in
these.respects.
We find. no' special circumstances i the case which
should have required the District Court; in the exercise
of a sound judicial discretion, to discharge the petitioners.
'Judgment affirmed.

PACIFIC GAS
ELECTRIC COM'PANY v. CITY
AND COUNTYOF SAN FRANCISCO.
PACIFIC GAS & ELEWCTRIC COMPANY v. CITY
AND COUNTY OF. SAN FRANCISCO ET AL.-

PACFC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v. CITY
MW .COUNTY OF SAN FRANCIEICO ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF. CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 34-36. Argued April 17, 1923; restored to docket for reargument Novenber 27, 1923; reargued February 19, 1924.-Decided
June 2, 1924

1. The evidence supports a finding that a net return of 7 per. cent.
was necessary to avoid- confiscation, iii the fixing of the appellant
company's gas rates by public authority. P. 405.
2. In determining the amount deductible for accrued depreciation
when valuing the property of a public utility for the purpose of

testing the adequacy of rates during a.ppriod already elapsed,
estimates of competent experts based on examination of the plantsubsequent to-the depreciation are preferable to averages based on
assumed probabilities. P. 406.

4"

-OCTOBER

TERM, 1923.

Counsel for-Parties.

265 U.S.,

3. Where depreciation is due partly to physical causes and partly to
obsolescefic resulting from improvements in the plant, the amounts.
should be found separately if practicable. P. 406.
4. Rate-making is not a function of the courts; their duty is to
examine results and uphold the guaranties which inhibit the taking
under any guise of private property for public use without just
compensation, P. 415.5. In a suit to enjoin enforcement of rates as confiscatory, a claim
of a public utility for pist services can not be relegated to the
consideration of a state commission in the future when it adjusts
the rates for future years. Id.
6. Where a gas company acquired patent rights which proved very
valuable in lessening the' cost of producing gas, but .necessitated
new outlays and rendered parts of the" existing plant obsolescent,,
held:
(a) That the true value of the patent rights, and'not merely the
.money actually paid for them, must be aowed for as part of its
property, in gauging the adequacy of.rates fixed by a city. P. 415.
(b) As the obsolescence could not have been long anticipated it was
not imperative, if possible, that the company should have provided
for it- out of the revenues-of years'preceding those in question.
Id.
(c) -To allow only the cash paid for the patent rights, and nothing "
for the obsolete property, in arriving at the rate base, resulted in
confiscation. Id.
273 Fed: 937, reversed.

APruLs from decrees of the District Court dismissing
the bill in three suit brought by the appellant company
to prevent the enforcement of ordinan6es passed by San
Fraijoisco in three successive years, to reduce the price

of gas.
Mr. Louis Titus, with w&hom Mr. Win. B. Bosley was
on thebriefs, for appellan.
-Mr.Robert M. Searls, with whom Mr. George LUll and
Mr. Johi J. D.aiey were ui the briefs, for appellees:-" 'At the first hearing, the cases were argued by Messft. Titus and
Bosley, on behalf of the appellant..

* PACIFC G4S CO. v.SAN FRANCISCO.. 405.
403

'

Opinion'of the.Court.

MR. Jsmc MdRLYioLs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Since 1905 ap!iellant has been the.sole producer and
gneral. distributor of heating and illuminating gas in the.
San Francisco district. By three separate, ordinances
.p.ssed in June-of 1913, 1914 and 1915, the Board of Supervisors directed itto supply such gas during the fiscal year
commencing July first thereafter at not more -than
seventy-five cents per thousand feet. "Claining that the
rate, so prescribed would not yield fair return, appellant
brought suits in July, 1913, 1914 and 1915, to prevent enfoieement of 'the respective ordinances, Restraining .orders issued up'on conditio thai monhly statements should
show each consumer's account and bond should be. given
to secure proper repayments with interest. -The maximum rate .in the schedule therealter maintained was
eighity-five ctnts per. thousand,
December 15, 1916, the causes wdre- consolidated and
referred to a maste' After taking much lestinony he
presbnted an e.laborate report, March 2 1920 which
recommended dismissal of the.bills and repayment of
whatever had been collected. above the prescribed rate.
The ]Iistrict Court affimed the report and directed an ap-.
propriate decre6.
The master found"that not less thhn seven per cntumd
ngt upon the valu&of the property devoted t(o public use
was necessary for a fair return; a]so tbat if observedthe -.
pre cribed rate would have yielded more than sbven perD
centum-for 1913-1914, an excess of $21,40.2.95.;.for 191419A15 $89,446.12; and for 1915-1.916, $171,464.48.
We think the evidence supports fie finding tha. a net
r eturhi of seven per centum was nece sW in order to avoid
confiscation.

'

.

"

The inventory othe r'any itena makingup appelint's
manufacturing arid distributing plant with their repibduc

-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

'tion cost new was agreed upon by th6 parties. In order
to determine accrued depreciation and ascertain true
values during the years 1913-1916, the master applied the
"modified sinking fund method." Concerning this he
said: It involves "an-.estimate of the lives of the different structural units, and an annual allowance set aside
from the rates received as a reserve for future replacement on a 5 per cent. compound interest curve, the capital basis of return to the owner being depreciated each
year in an amount*exactly corresponding with yearly additions to the reserve. It is assumed that loss of plant
units by obsolescence and inadequacy, as well as by
physical decay, can be forecast with substantial accuracy
and provided for in advance of abandonment and replacement."
Appellant objects to the application of this method and
insists that depreciat'ion should have been ascertained
upon full consideration of the definite testimony given by
competent experts who examined -the structural units,
spoke concerning observed. conditions and made estimates
therefrom. As these examinations were made subsequent
to the alleged depreciation for the definite purpose of
ascertaining existing facts, we think the criticism is not
without merit. -'acts shown by reliable evidence were
preferable. to averages based upon assumed probabilities.
Whpen a plant has been conducted with unusual skill the
owner may justly claim the consequent benefits. The
problem was to ascertain the probable result of the specified rate if applied under well known past conditions, not
to forecast theprobable outcome of a proposed rate under.
unkiiown future onditions.
Counsel do not insist that the estimated accrued depreci.ition is "grossly excessive," if conflied to the result
of physical causes. But they do maintain that the master
should have ascertained aaid stated what. depreciation
was due to such causes and how much followed obsoles-

PACIFIC *GAS CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
403

407

Opiuion of the Court:

cence resulting from the introduction of certain patented
inventions; and we think such a. finding should have been
made, unless some undisclosed reason prevented. The
claim is that in order to lower cost of production it became
necessary .to abandon certain valuable property 1under

conditions not reasonably susceptible of anticipation.
The material and relevant facts ought to.be disclosed.
The objection to the report most seriously urged is that
in his estimate'of total yalue the master failed properly to
appraise certain patent rights through which manufacturihg costs had been greatly reduced; also, that he failed
to make proper allowances for the 'uccessful use of such
rights. This objection is well taken. The following excerpts from the master's long and rather involved report
disclose the contested points with the relevant facts and.

indicate his conclusions.
"The company contends that its plant capital, as a
basis of eartings, should suffer no deduction because of
supposed depreciation due to age, but only, if at all, by the
amount of 'deferred mnantenance.' And where, as here,
there have been abandonments of large units.due to obsolescence, th&loss should be reimbursed by amortization
over a period of years after, rather than before, -the replacement, this amortization being effected by dividing
the economies resulting -fromnewmachines and proesses
between owner and consumer, thus allowing a partial reductfon in the rate.
t"Until this case -it had not occurred to me that, so far
as theory is concerned, reimbursement of the owner could
take blace aftbr abandonment. 'It would not seem fair if
,it involved a raise of rates. - Physical depreciation,'for
example, if an aicumulation-is necessary to provide for
replacement, ought to be provided beforehand .from th6
rates of users of the service which, caused the machine" to
wear out. But where'rdplacement is made on account of
absolescelce or inadequacy, and economy is effeieted -in

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1023.
Opimidn of the Court.

265 U. S.

costs, that economy can with fairness be devoted to,
reimbursement for the - replacement cost, the rates remaining unchanged., I know of no well-considered
method to meet this reimbursement after the fat. The
installments would have to include interest on the unpaid
principal afid capital would thus not be depreciated for
purposes of return. An estimate of the period of amortizatiowwoild not have to be made if all economies of the new
machine were devoted to the amortization; it would work
itself out. If the economies- were shared with the ratepayer, as plabitiff here suggests, the period should .not
extend beyond the estimated life of the new machine; a
plan which is subject to the objection on the grounds of
uncertainty common to all such estimates. . . .
"But where, as here, and as is generally the case, there
is nothing to show what, if any, consideration has been*.
given the quesfion of depreciation.methods by the state
authorities, or anything beyond a bare schedule of rates
to becharged, then the court must determine the proper
inethods by its own independent judgment. I have.tried
to make it clear that in the usual case the modified sinking-fund method would seem most applicable. Notwith-Sstanding. this, in cases where it had not been the practice
,to accumulate a reserve, and where the cost of replace-.
nenfs has shown itself to be.a9fairly uniform amount, or
a fairly uniform percentage of income or of capital, then
there is no objection in sound reaioninig, nor, as I believe,
in the law as laid down, why-the court should not adopt a
replacement method in determining proper costs of production; and in such event it would rate at replacement
cost new to determine the owner's reasonable return and
include actual iverage replacement re4uirements in the
yearly costs, without reserves. Or it might flwre on a
reserve for part of the plant, and a ieplacement method
for the balance apparently adapted to it. Conceivably,
also, the court might amortize the loss by obsolescence

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN FRACISCO.
.403

409

Opmion of the Court,.

after abandonment had taken place, as -plaintiff urges'here. But I imagine that any c.ourt will feel the same
hesitation in so doing that I feel here, for it involves reimbursement as to stimctures no.longer in the inventory
of unitsin service, and is without precedent.except where
the iate-fixing body has laid it down as a proper
policy.
"Mr. .E. 0. Jones; chief gas engineer of .plaintiff, also

testified that the plant was worth cost new less only the'
deferred naintenance and the amount of abandonments
immediately in prospect. He estimates the anount.of this
deduction at $828;916.41 (Exhibit 43), or 6.3 per cent."of
his appraisement at $13,060,201.55 -(Exhibit 3). His estimate includes no consideration of approaching obsolescence; it does include replacement reasonably in vew, due
to physical deterioration, and "to ordinary inadequacy.

,-

"I have referred several times to plaimtiffs contention
that obsolescence should be amortized after rather than
before abandoninent of a unit of plant. SpecificalIy.applied, it is urged that when it is seen'that Martfi station
or other obsolete generator has been superseded by new
Jones generators, using the improved Jones process for oilgas, the demonstrated economies thereby effected are
justly to be devoted to reimbursing the company fr the
loss of capital occasioned by the obsolescence, continuing.
each year uifil the loss is made gbad,'with interest. On
this settled program .the new generator would, of.course,
be rated for returnmat replacement cost new at all times.
To give the consumer a part of the advantages. 6f the improvemeift, the company proposes that only half.of the
,very coisiderable economies of operation shall be devoted
to its reimbfirsement. Many advantages are iirged for
t"i plan: That it throws upon the consumer, -who has the"
benefit of the new equipment in the ishape of reduced
.charges, the burden of theL loss by supersession of equip-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

ment otherwise in good condition; that it avoids the defect
that is inherent in a system of setting aside reserves in
advance of abandonment, namely, that while -thelife of a
depreciable unit is difficult enough to estimate when
physical decay alone is considered, it is practically impossible to forecat when we consider that obsolescence andinadequacy, which usually account for abandonments- in
a gas manufacturing-plant, follow no rule as to time of
their operation; that, finally, progress in service is promoted by giving a. gas company an incentive to improvement of its machinery and its processes in the sh.apeof incieased profits. It must be idmitted that if replacement
of an old machuine has not been sufficiently provided for by
reserves in advance, a. company will naturally defer installing a new .nmachine, and s6 progress is halted. It is,
furthermore,. true that the application of the usual formula, fair returh on fair present value of the plant in service, giires to the consumer all the advantages of economies
in operating costs, which plainly isnot entire justice. The
City's counsel agrees .(Argument 451) that if obsolescence.
had occurred suddenly, with no opp6rtunity to create reserves for replacement, the loss should be amortized after
abandonment; but he denies that the facts here conform
to the hypothesis.
"11Mr.E.G. Jones, chief gas engineer of plaintiff, and his
son, Mr. Leon B. Jones, assistant gas engineer, on an application filed May 23, 1912, were on March 10, 1914,
grahted United States Letters Patent for an improved apparatus for minufacturing oil-gas; and on October 19,
1915, on an application also filed May 23, 1912, were
*granted letters for the process. On November 30, 1915,
they granted to plaintiff the exclusive right to'use the
process,, and to make and use, but not to sell, the apppratus, together with future improvements in either process
or.apparatus made during the lives of the -patents;-the.rights granted being transferable, but restricted asto plac

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
403

411

Opinion of the Court.

to a, number of named counties in northern and central
California. Despite the late- date of the grant, plaintiff's
beneficial right covered the period in suit, for the prior installation of generators embodying the Jones-patents at
the Metropolitan and the Potrero stations, with the
patentees' consent, conferred an'Implied license to use
them during-their life in the San Francisco district*; .but
this license was not exclusive. The contract underlying
the grants (Exhibit 61) r.ecited that the Company had permitted the patentees to use its plant and facilities for experimentation and commercial demonstration of their inventions; ha expended in alterations bi its Metropolitan
plant a sum exbeeding $100,000, and also had expended in
erecting two new gas generators at the P6trero'station em-.
bodying the inventions a suih exceeding $215,000; that
continued operation of all said new or altered apparatus.
under the patentees' direction had demonstrated the great
utility and value of the inventions and that they could be
utilized 'to the great pecuffiary advantage' of the plaintiff
Company; that the Company had allowed the patentees"
to exhibit the apparatus to many persons interested in gas
manufacture in this country and Europe as a deinonstration of the utility and value of their inventions, ad that
the patentees regarddd the privilege of future such exhibitions as of great value.to them. It was then agreed that
for the grants first above referred to the Company would
pay the patentees the sum of $46,066.67, and would allow
full opportunity for future exhibition of the generators,
'
and so forth.
"The question is, at what figures these rights of the
Company shall be taken into the remgs-base? It seems
to be asreed that the amount actually.paid in 1915 ir
already represented in the amount hitherto added as
additions and betterments.
"The presentation of plaintiff's case in the form approved by its counsel does not primarily involve the giv-

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.-

.Opnion of -the Court.

265 U. S.

ing of a value to these patent-rights. Counsel in argumdnt stated in substance that the evidence as to. their
value seemed to involve such enormous sums that he
preferred the more conservative course of giving them
consideration in his conception of the proper tieatment
of losses by obsolescence. It will be remembered that his
argument was that no new invention would be installed
by a man of bfisiness unless its savings were "available to
-him to recoup losses of capital .abandoned to make way
for it; that the patent monopoly would enable him. to
compel-a price adequate for-his recoupment; and that in
a proceeding like this it was equitable to divide the savings with the consumer and apply the .Company's share
to reimbursement of the loss by abandonment, meanwhile
rating the new.property at.value new.. I have said that
there was -strength of reason in this plan, but that it
involved a matter of administrative policy that.was primarily for the State's regulatory body.. I have not followed this plan for this reason and for the further reason
that it appeared obsolescence could have been foreseen
and provided for, and apparently had been provided for.
This means that the question of value of the -ightAs must
be now considered.
"The evidence is not very full on the iiart of plaintiff.
Anl due perhaps to plaintiff's position as to obsolescence,"
there was little cross-examination by the City and no
contrary evidence. "Withi oil at 68 cents a barrel to
.plaintiff during the years 1912-16, Mri. Bridges -estimates
the savings under the Jones process at 21 cents a thousand feet of gas manufactured. (Exhibit 62.) In Table
X of his supplemental argument, Mr. Bosley estimates
the savings shown by the evidence at 2+ 'Cents for the
first two years and over 4 cents for the year 1915-16; or,
in -sum total, $103,530.39 for 1913-14, $132,419.45 for
1914-15 and $258,557.81 for 1915-16. A just criticism of
these estimates is that they give -no influence to the

-

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN ThANCISCO.
.403

413

Opinion of the Court.

economies due to larger production. MIr. Britton, general
manager of plaintiff, speaking of results attained in
1916-17, testifies that the new Jones generators effected
a saving of two gallons of oil per thousand feet of gas
and over one cent a thousand in.labor costs of manufacture. (Tr., 2248 seq.) Projecting the savings over
the sixteen remaining years of the letters patent, he
computes the aggregate savings at $7,630,300. (Tr.,
2251.) Mr. Vincent computes the present worth on June
30, 1916, of these future savings at $4,203,300. (Exhibit
67.) While apparently. the estimates are made on conservative bases; it is, of coure, true that forecasts, like
this are full of uncertainties; for example, oil may rise to
.a price prohibitive for gas consumption on the present
:scale, or other inventions or even substitutes for gas may
diminishl the value of the Jones patent.
"There is no doubt that these patents are property, and
of great value. It is also true, I think, that justice demands that the utility company should profit in some
substantial proportion by the economies brought about by
its ability in management or its improvements in methbds
of manufacture. There is no good reason why ihe consumers should get all the advantages that are the fruit of
the genius 6f these inventors. If by the terms of their
employment Mr. -Jones and his son had been boun" to
assign their patents to plaintiff without further compensation, and had done so, the Cityr could not justly
claim that the Company should hav-no part oi the savings effected. The patents would have to be valued.
But in view of the fact that the Company and the patentees, dealing presumably at arms' length, have reached
a figure of about $46,000 as the value of exclusive rights
throughout Northern California, I am as mucI4nharassed as was plaintiff's counsel in concluding tjhrin
San Francisco alone the rights are to be valued for.purposes of return at four million dollars or any substantial'

414

OCTOBER TERMt_, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

fraction of that sum. And how are we to compare in
value the full rights obtained by express grant in 1915
and the restricted rights arising by implied license in the
prior years? In view of the state of the evidence, it
seems to me better to pass the whole matter for future
consideration in connectioif with the rates of later years,
when the State Commission can pass on it with full evidence before-it. On the record before me I do mot see
my way clear to add any figure to the rating base on
account of these patent rights .
..
I "Objections Nos. 8, 9 and 10 have- to do with the
valuation of plaintiff's rights 'inder the Jones patents.
Plaintiff is incorrect in stating that the Master failed to
find the present value of the patent rights.. These were
allowed in capital value as stated, page 85, at $46,066.67,
'the amount paid the grantors in 1915. If. the plaintiff
had paid the inventors, say $500,000, or other considerable
sum, for these patent rights, there is no reason to doubt
that this figure would have been accepted as the valuation
for purposes of return. It is not my view that a valuation
must follow cost, although it is more apt to do so where
"the Ipurchase was recently emade. I have stated as fully
as I could the reasons why I could not find the immensely
grea'ter figure which plaintiff claims. Briefly, the evidence was entirely oo speculative. There is, after all,
in sch a policy no.particular restriction to enterprise in
den ig to stockholders the fruits of valuable inventions,
because the stockholders do not function in the direction
of .4terprise. The way to reviprd enterprise is to pay
large sums to inventors, but thatfis not the question here.
In a supplementary argument counsel asks me to apply
here the rule which prevails in patent accountings, where,
when -damages cafinot be ascertained by reference to an
established royalty, -the Master is permitted to determine
from all the evidence what would have been a reasonable
royalty. The qualification to this rule is, however, that

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
403

415

Opinion of the Court.

the Master must have some evidence upon which his mind
can work and rely, and that is to a large degree lacking
here, save in so far as it is given by the amount of the
purchase price. The objections named are accordingly
overruled:'
Obviously, under the theory accepted ,below, appellant
worsened its situation for raie-making purposes when it
reduced the cost of manufacturing gas. Introduction of
successful patented inventions enabled the public authorities to lower the Tate base and gather-all the benefits. The operating plant, made capable of producing gas
at smaller cost, was declared less valuable'than before.
The result indicates error somewhere, either in theory or
application of principle.
Obsolescence of one or more stations and perhaps other
property theretofore of great value (possibly $800,000)
followed installation of thi patents, but the remaining
plant plus the patents gave better results. As an operating unit the new combination had greater value than the
old; but the court below disregarded the demonstrated
worth of the element which wrought this change.
The obsolescence in question did not result from ordinary use and wear. Certainly it could not have been long
anticipated-th'e patents were of recent conception to*
provide for it out' of previous revenues was not imperative, if possible. Former consumers were not beneficiaries; only subsequent ones could be advantaged.
Our concern is with confiscation. Rat6-making is :no
function of the courts; their duty is to inquire concernifig
results and uphold the guaranties which inhibit the taking of private property for public use without just compensation under any guise. We may not, therefore,
relegate appellant's claim for past services to the future
consideration of the State Coxnimission, as the ziaster
suggests. After adopting the reduced costs of manufacture for estimating nbt returns, the court gavie no proper

416

4OCTOBER TERM,- 1923.
-

B1Nms, S., dissenting.

265 U. S.

valuation -o the.inventions which caused the reduction;
and thereby permitted property'to be takei" without just
'compensation. The amoint of money actually paid'to the
.inventors was not the proper measure 6f. worth. Exp6rience had demonstrated a-much higher one; and to
obtain the benefit of their -use appellant sacrificed much.
- Installation of the inventions necessitiated new outlay
of money-and abandonment of property theretofore valuable-both were necessary in order that the cost of man.'facture might be redu6ed. If appellant's permissible
profits depend upon the lowered costs and it is denied
adequate return-upon property. which made the reduction
possible, dr recompense for the obsolescence, successful
efforts to- imprpve the service will prove extremely disadvantageous to it.
Whether, under th-e peculiar circumstances here presented, the rate base should be fixed by adding to the
agreed inventory some fair valuation of the patent rights,
or whether prompt recoupment should be allowed for the
obsolescence caused by their introduction, or whether appellant should be saved from actual ultimate loss by some
other feasible method, we will not undertake to determine
upon the present record. To the end that the issues may
be reconsidered in view of this opinion, the decree below
is reversed and the cause remanded for such further proceedings as.the circumstances require, including another
reference to the master if deemed advisable.
""Reversed.
MR. JusTicE HOLMES, disseiting.

I am of opinion that the decree should be affirmed on
the main-point for reasons that will be stated by my.
Brother BnAINEis.
Mr. JusTIC

BRANEis, dissenting.

These cases "were tried together. Each challenges as
confiscatory an ordinance of- the City. of, San Francisco

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
403

417

BnDmis, J., dissenting.

fixing, for a single year, the price fo be charged forgas.
The rule of Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, Wv-S applied.
The evidence,- in condensed form, comes before us in's
record of 943 pages. The master's original and supplemental repor.ts occupy 131 pages. The master, and the
court found the rates to be compensatory. Three errors
are assigned by the company which relate to depreciation.
The facts applicable to the ieveral years differ in part;.
but the same questions are presented in each. It will tend
to clarity to discuss these with refefence to the fats of
No. 341 which involves, the rate for the year beginning
July 1, 1913.
First. The depreciation charge allowed for that year,
foi the plant as a whle, was $348,853. The company does
not complain that this allowance is too small, if treated asan allo rance for merely physical observed depreciation.
Its claim is that an improved process, which had.been introduced at the San FranciscQ works in 1912, resulted in a
saving, during the year 1913-14, of $103,530 in oil and
labor; that in 1913 it had become certain that this process
would later render obsolete certain parts of the plant
(called stations) which were in use throughout that year;
and that, for the purpose of meeting this expected loss in
capital through later abandonment of'stations, the savings
effected by the new process should have been charged
against the earnings, and credited to a special depreciation
reserve. If, as.suggested below, the company's contention
is that only one-half of the savings should be credited to
this -special depreciation reserve, the action of the District Court on this ground is obviously free from objection. For, in fact, there was included in the year's deijreciation charge, for obsolescence of these stations, $64,962, which is more than one-half of the .year's savings.
But its claim here is that the whole -of the savings of the
year 1913-14 should have been so applied; 'and that,
therefore, the balance thereof, namely,. $88,568, shbuld

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRamnms, J., dissenting.

265 U. S.

also have been included in this special, depreciation
charge.'
The sum ($348,853) allowed as the depreciation charge
for the year 1918-14 was nearly 3 per cent. of the then reproduction cost new of the whole plant, other than land.
The master and the court found, as facts, that none of the
plant was abandoned during that year; that the change in
the process of manufacture was not revolutionary; that in
view of the history of the art, such change or improvements, -and resulting obsolescence of.parts of the plants,
should have been fofeseen; that, in fact, there had been
accumulated, during the four. years preceding 1912, as a
general reserve for depreciation, the sum of $2,116,433.95;
that -thisreserve had been charged off by the company to
surplus in November, 1911; and that, but for this fact,
it would have been. available to meet the loss of capital
-whichoccurred later through the abandonment of stations.
This alleged error does not present any question of law.
Whether more of the savings of the year 1913-14 due
to the introduction of the new process should have been.
allowed as a special depreciation charge for the obsolescence then known to be accruing, is clearly a question
of fact. There is much conflict in the theories on which
I In this connection, the confiscatory character of the rate rests,
according to the test applied, upon the allowance or disallowance of
a much smaller sum. For master and court have found that the
earnings of the year 1913-14 exceeded 7 per cent. upon the rate-base
by more than $21,000. An additional allowance for depreciation of
$17,000 would, therefore (even on the .theory ,contended for by the
company), have rendered the rate compensatory on a 7 per cent.
basis. Moreover, a 6 per cent. rate was sustained in Stanisaus
County v. Sar Joaquin & Kings River-Canal & Irrigation Co., 192
U. S. 201 (1904); KnoxvfIfe

v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1

(1909); and Cedar Rapids Gas Light Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223
U. S. 655, 670 (1912).

PACIFIC GAS CO. v.SAN FRANCISCO,
403

419

BRAxus,J., dissenting.

depreciation should be figured.2 There was doubt when
the obsolescence would culminate and what would be its
extent. There was conflict in the evidence as to the, rate
to be deemed a fair return. Whether a return oil 7 per
cent. is the proper test of a compensatory rate must,
obviously, depend in part upon whether the return includes any of the risk of obsolescence. I cannot say
that the master and the court erred in their conclusion
of fact that, all things considered, the depreciation charge
allowed was adequate. The same is true of the deprecia1
tion charges allowed for the years 1914 and 1915.1
'The wide differences between engineers as to the proper method
to be pursued is well known. See Southwestern BeM Teephone Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 262 U. S. 276, 294. "
'See Gerard C. Henderson "Railway Valuation and the Courts,"
33 Harv. L. Rev.902, 916, 922, 923; John. Bauer, "Iraluatign ofI
Public Utility Properties," 30 Pol. Sci. Q., P54, 275; Xt S. Hale,
".Physical Valuation of Public Utilities," 45 .Engineering Mag.,
161, 163.
"Appellant contends here that, due to the new method of manufacture, property of which the reproduction cost was $844355.74,
would become obsolete; that the total depreciation allowance covering this property for the'three years was only $275,096; and that
the difference-called net loss to the appellant-should be amortized by applying the savings to be effected by the new method 6f
manufacture. But the first abandonment of stations occurred at
the end of June, 1915. The estimated loss on the Martin station,
then abandoned, was $237,651. No further supersession occurred
during the period of litigation. There was merely the prediction,
made at the trial by the company's experts, that the Independent
station would be abandoned in December, 1918, And the Potrero
plant in December, 1920: Moreover, for the year 1914-15, he depreciation charge allowed was $372,680. Included in this 'mount is
$68,198, directly attributable to loss caused by abandonments. The
alleged saving6 from the new process for that period was $132,419.
Thus, the amount allowed exceeded the one-half of the year's saving,.
which was suggested below as the proper measure of the appropriate
charge. The increase in depreciation charge contended for here is
$64,221. But the earnings for this year exceeded 7 per cent. on the

420

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
B

DiIs,

J.,-dissenting.

265 V. S.

Second. As an alternative to allowing a largef d'epreciation harge out of the yearssavings through the iproved
process and a] paratus, the .company urges that .the ratebase shoid have been increased, by adding thereto the
value of the righ to use the-new process at the-San FraAicisco works.5 The court ap#parentSr adopted this view of
the law. It ruled that Ie company was entitled to a return upon the then value (as part of the rate-base) of the
SriAht.tio use the inventiohs. It differed from the company
only in the estimate of the value. The company's experts
declared that the value of this ight might be ascertained
by capitaiz:ing'the average annual savings expected to be
,effected thereby. So calculated, the value.is $4,203;300.
The court found specifically that it could not accept estimated savings as a measure of value;aamong other reasons,
because the amount of savings was dependent in large
mea.sure upon the price if crude oil, and that this price
fluctuates largely -from time to time. It included in the
rate-base for-1913-14 the value of the gas generators (at
the Metropolitan plant) which had been reconstructed so
as to embody the inventions; and found that there was: n

-

-

*r

ase by more than $389,000, leaving a difference more the"

sufficnt to cover this claim.- The year 1915-16 can be similarly

disposed of. The depreciation charge allowed was $380,519. Tae
alleged savings from'the new process for that year were estmated
at $28,557. -The increase in depreciation charge contended lor
herev is -$208,319. But'one-half of the year's savings is $129,279;
and tt1wsarninis for the year exceeded 7 per cpnt. on the rate base
by $171,464.
"The process and apparatus had been invented by the company's .
Walaried engineers early in 1912. The cost of experiments -were de-

frayed by it. The utility of th6 invention was proved in that year,
at its expense, by reconstructing, iluring that year, two of its gas generators and maling other changes in plant. In this way the cc~npany acquired an implied license to use the inventions. Wadev.
Metcalf, 129 U.'S. 202; Dable Grain Shovel Co. V. Flint, 137 UW S.

41. It did not acquire an express license until November 30, 1915;
that is, shortly after the patent for the apparatus was granted.

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.- 421
403

B w.mxs, 3., dissenting.

the rec6rd no evidence onwhich it could give tQo th.e right
to use the inventions a greater value than was allowed. So
far as concern the year 1913-14, the questiqn is, merely,

whether on the evidence in the record the value of the reconstructed generators (including, of course, the right to
use them) w. too small.0 It appeared-that for the right
to use the inventions nothing -was paid either duri"g the
year 1913-14 or during the year 1914-45; and-that for the
exclusive right to use them both in San Francisco and
throughout a number of bounties in 'nothern California,
the company paid to the inventors, in'November,. 1915,
$46;066.68. I cannot say that the master and the District
Court erred in the finding of fact- by which they valued
this item- for hat year, or in the value 9ssigned to the
right in fixing the rate-base for either of the two- following years.' This alternative contention of the company
presents, obviousfy, no question*of-law. - .
Third. The reproduction cost new of the manufacturing and distributing plant, other than land, Was found
to be $12,794,008; the accrued depieciation, $1,518,390
The question is not one of continuing importance'.to the-parties.
Its correctness depends upon the state of the particular record. Any
defect in this record can be avoided in proceedings concerning the

.rates for any year after June 30, 1916; and since October 29, 1917,
the gas rates for San Francitco are fixed, not by city officials, but by
the State Railroad Commission.
'The" yeair-914-1915 presents.no change in the situation from
the preceding year. )For 1915-10 the value of the two new Jones oil
gas generators installed in the Potrero plant at a cost of $241,812.59

is included- in the rate-base; and as the value of The right to use
the inventions, the $46,066.68 paid. For this'period, therefore, the
question is merely 'whether on the evidence in the record the
patents should have been valued at a sum in excess of $46,066.68.

But for both years only a large undervaluation would-affect the
resub, as the master and the court found that during the year
1914-1915 the prescribed rate would -yield $89,446 in excess of a seven per cent. returii on the rate-base, and for 1915-1916, an excess

of $171,464.

.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

265 U.S.

(as of June 30, 1914). Thus, the property was found to
be worth 88.1 per cent. of its then reproduction cost.
The company contends that the accrued depreciation
should have been set at $828,916.41; so that the plant
was worth 93.7 per cent. of its then reproduction cost.
The master employed the "compound interest" or
"modified sinking fund" method of estimating accrued
depreciation. The plant is in part very old. The depreciation found is but a small percentage of the reproduction cost. The evidence bearing upon the amxount
to be deducted for accrued depreciation occupies 232
pages of the record. The discussion thereof in the master's report occupies 39 pages. There was a conflict of
evidence.
No question of law is presented by this assignment of
'error.8 The company's objection is not to the particular
method selected, but that, in applying it, the master included as depreciation what is called theoretical inadequacy and obsolescence: Whether he did is a question of
fact. The city denies that the reduction in value made
by the master on account of accrued depreciation includes any sum representing expected loss through future
abandonment of the stations. It is clear that, if any deduction was maple on account of the probable abandonment of the stations, the obsolescence thus provided
for was not theoretical. The new process had been introduced two years before the date as of which the valuation wasmade. On the facts then known, it was expected
that the stations would have to be abandoned in the
"We have no occasion to undertake a legal delimitation of the
function of a depreciation charge; or to define its legal relations
to the depreciation reserves; or to determine whether the loss
through the abandonment of a station in 1915 and that expected
to result from later abandonments might be set off against the

depreciation reserve accumulated shortly before the invention of
the new process.

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. SAN FRANCISCO.
403

423

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting:

near future. Because it was to be expected (and wa§ not
theoretical) the compan3T contended .that to offset it
more of the year's savings should have been charged
against the income of that year. I cannot say that the
master and the -court erred in their findings of fact as
to the amount of accrued depreciation.
This litigation has already extended over elevei years.
The r'edord discloses that the cases were.presented below
by competent .counsel with the aid of competent experts,
and that they received careful consideration by an able
master bnd an able trial judge. "Counsel, master and
court have through6ui enleavored to apply the rule of
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.'46&... It is not shown that the
rule has, in any respect, been dep.rted from. This Court
harbors a doubt whether, ii" apply g it, some injustice
may not have been -done to, the "coiiifinY".. Is it probable
that a nearer approach to justice; as b ten
the parties,
will be attained by a continuation of t.he &Nftoapply
the same rule? To me it seems that .the d6"ibf -is.inherent in the rule itself. It can be overcome-8jy. :Iv
substituting some other rule for that found'to be umii
workabl. Such other. lies near at hand; and it is consistent with the Constitution.
It was settled by Knoxvile v. Knoxville Water Co.,
212 U. S. 1, that. eviry public utility must,*at its peril,
provide an adequate 'amount to cover depreciation. A
depreciation charge resembles a life insurance premium.
The depreciation reserve,' to which it is credited, supplies
insurance for the plant against its inevitable decadence,
as the life insurance 'reserve supplies the fund to meet
the agreed value of the lost human life. To determine
what the amount of the annual life insurance premium
should be is a much simpler task than to d~termine'the
proper depreciation charge. For life insurance is a cooperative undertaldng. The premium to be fixed is not
that required by the piobable duratikn of -the life of a

424'

OCTOBER TERi, 1923.
BIw=KDEIS,

J., dissenting.

265 U,.s.

single insured individual, but that required by the average
expectancy of life of men or women of the given age..
Moreover, for human lives, mortality tables have been
constructed which embody the resuIts of large experience
and long study. By their use the required premium may
be fixed with an approximation to accuracy. tut, despite
the relative simplicity of the problem, it was found that
the variables leave so wide a -margin for error that premiums fixed in accordance with mortality tables work
serious injustice either to the insurer or to the insured.
Although the purpose was to charge only the appropriate
premium, the transaction resulted sometimes in bankruptcy of the insurer; sometimes in 'his securing profits
which seemed extortionate; and, rarely, in his receiving
only the intended fair compensation for the service rendered. Because every attempt to approximate more
nearly the amount of required premium proved futile, justice was sought by another route. Ultimately, strictly
-mutual insurance was adopted. Under it, the premium
charged is made clearly ample; and the part thereof
which proves not to have been needed enures in some
form to the benefit of him who paid -it. Compare Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Lederer, 252 U. S. 523,
524, 525.
Legal science can solve the problem of the just depreciation charge for public utilities in a similar manner.
Under the rule which fixes the rate base at the amount
prudently invested, the inevitable errors incident to fiuing the year's depreciation charge do not result in injustice either to the utility or to the community. If,
when plant must be replaced, the amount set aside for
depreciation proves to have been inadequate, and invest.
ment of new capital is required, the utility is permitted
to earn the annual cost of the new capital. If, on the
other hand, the amount set aside for depreciation proves
to have been excessive, the income from"the surplus re-

"U. S. v. AMERICAN RY. EXP. (0.
403

"49,5

Syllabus.

serve operates as a, credit to' reduce the currefit capital
charge which the rates must earn. If a new device is
adopted which involves additional investment (to buy a
new plant or a patent right) the company's investment,
on which the-return must be paid," is increased by that'
amount. If the new device does not involve new inivestment, tut the innovation involves inereased current payments (like royalties for use of a process) the additional
disbursement is borne by the community as an operating.
expense. The cost of a scrapped plaxit is carried as part
of 'the investment on which a return must be paid unless
and until it has been retired, that is fully paid for, out
of the depreciation reserve. Thus, justice both to the
owners of the utility and to the public is assured.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. AMERICAN RAILWAY EX-.
PRESS COMPANY ET AL.

SOUTHEASTERN EXPRESS COMPANY v. AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY ET AL.
SOUTHERN TRAFFIC LEAGUE ET AL. v. AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY VET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF TfE UITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

Nos. 666-668. Argued April 16,17, 1924.-Deeided June 2, 1924.
1. Section 15, par. 4, of the amended Interstae Commerce Act
provides that, in establishing any through route, the Commissidn
shall not "require any carrier by railroad, without its consent,
to embrace in such route substantially less than the entire'length

of its railroad and of any intermediate railroad- operated in conjunction and under a common management or control therewith,
which lies between the termini of such proposed through route,
unless such inclusion of lines would make -the through" route un-

