'UNITED STATES v. NEW RIVER CO.
526

33

Statenment of ihe Case.

respondent, but-tht -these labels shall state affirmatively
that the preparxdt6n s .not to be sold or dispensed &3

Coco-Q
0FoE used in Mlilg prescriptions or orders
calling for the .tter. With.these general suggestionso.the
details andi form of the inju cion can be more satisfactorily determined by. the District. Court. The 4ecree of
the Court;of Appeals is reversed and the'ause r~manded
to' the District C6u4 for furter proceedings in con*form* wi this o rpnion

Reversed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMME RCE
COMMISSION v.2NEW RIVER COMPANY ET.AL.

SLAB FORK COAL COMPANY ET AL. t. NEW
RIVER COMPINY ET AL.
APPEALS FROM TEDISTRIC COURT Or TBE UITED STTES
FOR TH SOUTHERN DISTMI.
OF WEST VMGM

Nos. 627 and 628.. Argued April 24, 192.-Decided June

9

1924.

1. An order of the Interstatd Commerce Commsion, in form dismissing a complaint of shippers" but the effect of which was to
Tequire the observahice of a rule of dar"distribution attacked in
the'proceedings as arbitrary, ifegal and- unconstitutiona1, held not
a 'negative" order, (Proctpr & Gamble Cd..y. Unit4 ,States,
225
U. S. 282, distingui4ed,), and,.reviewable. in the District ICourt.
P. 539.
2. The courts cann'ot substitute their judgment for the findi* and
conclusions of th Commission made within the scobe of its power
to regulate tho distribution of coal cars. P.-59..
0..A rule fixing thd number of casm distributable to coal mine in
proportion to the daily capacity*'of aech to produce, held not
arbltrarj' ufireasonable, or violative of due process, as applied to
mines served by more than one carrier. P. 542.

293 Fed. 460, reversed.
APPEAs from a final decree of the District Court enjoinWg, the .enforcement of an ordef of the Interstaf6

Commerce Commission respecting distribution of coal

53i,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

-

265 U.

.Thp imit was brought by-the New:lRiver Company
cs.
and other coal.nine operatofi, (,ppellee ), against two
railroad companies, the United St'es ind -the Commission.. Otler 'coal 'operators intervened -to, defend the
order. The United.States-.ind the Co&rission took one'
appeal, and thi:unterveners another.. The carrier defendants abstained.."

*Mr..Bickbum'Est&Zine, Assistant to the Solicitor
General,-with whom Mr. Solicitor.Genieral Peck was on
ihe brief, for the United. States.
Mr. George T. Bell for. appellants in No. 628"

Mi. James W.-Carmalt, withwhom Mr. Addison C.
Burnham and Mr. August"G. Gutheim were in the brief,
for appellees."
Mr. J. CarterFort, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrellwas on
the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Cominission.
Mi. Jusimc BUTILR delivered the opinion of the Court.'
Titis- suit was brought by' the appellees against the
Chesapeak6 & Ohio Railway Company-and the Yirginian.
Railway Oomliany, competing interstate carriers by railroad, the United States and the Interstate Commerce
Cox.inmission'-to enjoin the carriers from-applying a certain'
rule (Rle 4 6f Circular CS-31, Revised) for the distribution"of coal cars and to set aside the decision and order*
of the Commission of December11, 1922, in certa . pro• edings instituted bkr the appellees ag*inst the defendant
Carrers." ......
For convenience, a mine sered by one carrier is called
l i ine ", and a Znne sved by two or more car-

ai
&"" joi n t-mine". - Each.appellee is the operator of a:
joiit"nihie seried by.the -defendant carriers, and eacha;ppel nt- mining co fpnyis the operator-of a local mine

UNITED"STATES v. NEW RIV3R C... •535
533

Opinion of the Court.

served by one or the other of the carriers. "The car service
rules, were promulgated to govern uniformly the "riiting " of coal mines, other than anthradite, -and car 'dis-.
tribution to such mines during peribds of .8ar shorftage.
'The daily rating pf a local-mine.for any month is based
on its tonnage shipped during the precedin -month, and
is identical with"its daily capacity to produce coal. The
rating of a joint -mineis calculated in the same wasr that
the dagly rat ng of a local mine is determined, except that.
its shipments over al carriers seriring it are considered
in determining its total capacity to iroduce coal.. The
figure so ascertained is called the "gross daily rating," in "
recognition of the fact that the rating of a.joint mine does
not represent its capacity to -ship ever eiwh" carrier on
'days *hen it -uses inore than. oie, but on the coitray
'represents its. -total daily capacity to 'ship over. all lines
*which serve it.. Rule '4 piovides: "Copies of orders for
.cars'for a mine -thatis joint with any other carrier (steam,
electric,., or Water), shall be filed .with a-desighaied representative of' each such carrier. Sucb.combinations must
not eiceed the gross daily rating bf. the mine". Under
-the rules, ;w.en a mine orders less than its rating, distribution' to it is on the basis" of its orders.
* These rules were.establ.ed 'during the peiidd of fed-'.'
eral control of the railroads. After -the expiration o that
period, the Commissiin issued a 3iotice,- dated March 2,
1920,' recbmmedi.g" to'carriers and shipeis -that the
rules be 'continued in effect 'until experience and further,
study demonstrated that ofhers would.be more effective
and' Pneficial. They. were coiemued by-caitiers gener-"
ally; -T,;ly 8,.1920,:.the Clirpeake & Ohi-Railway'Com.pany and-the Viiginidii Railway Company asked ff&
per-..
mission t6 discontinue rule 4 and to substitute for it the
"150 per cent. rule", which fhe'-Commission in 1912 had
'found to be g.reasonable rule for the Illinois Central Rail-.
road Cimpany (I re Irreuka.iti. in Mini.Ratings,'25'

536

-OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court..

.65 U. S.

I C. C. 286, 295), but which had never been followed
by the railroads generally or by tie defendant carriers.
Under this rule, a joint mini may order 100 per cent. of
its gross daily rating from either carrier serving it and
is entitledto receive its pro rata share of that carrier's
available cars. If it'.so' ourdera, it is not entitled to any
cars from the other- carrier. -In this respeqt, it. does not
differ from rule 4. However; if a joint mine served by
two carriers orders cars from both on the same day, it is
etitled to order from each. arrier 75 per cent. of its
gross daily Tating, making its combined orders 150 per
cent., but subject to the limitation that it is --ot entitled'
to receive in the aggregate more than its gross daily rating.
The Commission declined to give p1rnimon to subtitute
the 150 per cent. rule -forrule 4.
January 11, 1921, appellees fmed separate complaints
with the Commhission agaiijt the .0hesapeake and Ohio
Railway Company and againA the Virginian afilvay
Company, attaeking rule 4 as unjust and unreasonable
and unduly prejudicial to joimt minus and unduly preferential of local inues. Certain operators of, joint mines
intervened in support of the complaints. Certidn operators of local mines intervened in support of rule 4 The
complaints were consolidated with each other and vith.
imil
eomplaints. June 21; 1921, Diviion 5 nf the
Commission relorted as follows: ". ..
We fihd'that
rule 4 of Circular CS-31, Riised, is unreasonable and
unduly prejudicial t6 joint mines. and unduly preferential
of local .mnes, to -theextent that it Imits 'the aggregate
brders.o the joint mne to 1O pier cent. of its rating.rom

both r4cads; ad thai fofeth fuare'during erod4 of car
shortage defendants should distribute cears-t the joint
min :qn theirlines here r~ffgd
d on the basis outlined.
in thed Ilineis Cabe ITh. te.rregla
We 2''ineRatws,
.4.M]...
" Farmont &
eve nad CoaiM '.B, .'V

"ftorbb

Oh~o

B.

Co., 62 1.

. .269, 276.

.he Com-,

UNITED STATES
533

. NEW RWM CO. *537

Opinion of the C t..

mission referred to its authority under § 1 (13) of the
Interstate Comrierce Act by general or special oider to
require carriers by railrdd to: fie their rules and regulations with respect to car se'.c, and to direa&that uch
rules and regulations be incorporated in"the schedules
showing rates, fares. and charges -for transportation, and .
be subject to -the provisions of the act relating -thereto;
and-added, "We have not required -that car service rules
-befiled as tariff schedules.* We will not in this proceeding
direct that the rdles which we hereii find to be.reasonable
be s. fled. We-sball expect, howeyer, thkt defendants
'will promptly amend their, car ertiles-sa as to con-:

form .with our findings and evidence same by fiing-copies
thereof witlh us." .No foianal order was entered, but the
•defendant cariers .amended their rules to conform-to.the
findings in the report, ,and put in force and applie'd the
150 per cent. rule. Subsequently; on*petition.of the-intervening 6perators
of. the local mines, the caso was..lppened .id$ considered.
bythe'ftl Comxison" Decembr'11, 1922 it reversed
-the findings of Divisibn 5 and found that rule 4 was not:
unreasonable or unduly prejudidal. Bell & Zolter Coial
Ca.v. Baltimore & Ohio Snithwestem.R. ?. o., 74
I. 0. C. 43&* It .said: "Our former conduons in the

"Firmont Case, bised upon &.mistaken adherence to and
extension of the decision in lie Iinois Case, are re-.

versed." The.Commission made a f&mil.order, reciting
:: that
ihad ':maie aI fled a repot eo
ing its fnd-"
ings of fact.and coidusions thereon, which.said repoft is
hereby-referred to and made apm-.herebf: It'is ordered,
.That ther omlaints in these proceedings be, and they are
hereby, dismissed." .Following the report and order, the
Chesapake & Ohio Rai.way Company.and tbe Virginian
Railway Company gave notice to the appellees that they

wold-put rule 4 in. effect again.,

.

538

.OCTOBER TERM,"192.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

Thereupom this suit was. brought.- The complaint.
alleged tht tljecarrie'rs -put the rule i%effect.because of
the order of thd Commission, and in fear of the penalties
imposed by lai for violation ,6f its orders. It attacked
the oider and rule on the groun.d that they are beyond the
power which the Commissionr can-c onstitutionally exer"cise; 4nd are in excess of th.power conferred upon itby
statute; and tha they are arbitrary and unreasonable.
The Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Conipay answiered that
the effect of. the order .upon- it was necessarily the same
as though the order-had been in affirihative form, requir-"
ing itto cease .and. desist. publi.shing and obserVing te
Illinois rule (150 "pyfr cent. rule) and'in -lieu 'thereof to
publish and observe rule 4;. and th t, fabing the 'dang&of suits for.heavy'damages, supported by a .decisioi and
reparation orders which.it.believed.would folloiv its f6ailure'
to obserye th hule prescribed .by th-Co
son6 it
undertook to can el te existing rule and to restore rule 4.
The Virginian Rilway Company answered that' in-tie
matter of distribution of car, it was s.bj ct to the bddrsof the. Cominission, and that..the'.Coimnis.sion having
decided tha.rule 4is not uireasonable ofrunduly prju-'
dicial, and in the -s'a~e decision having expressly reveIed'
its concldusion in the Fairmont' ase, that dompany-6onsidered itself legally bound tb puf rule' 4. hi effect o its.
railroad. The United Stites 'and. the Interstate, Corn.mer.ce Commission moved.'odmi s-th6 complat-.fr
wait qf jurisdictioir and want-of equity., The'-1iterveners
moved to dismigs and later answered..
The'case .waspresented td-and heard br a 'ourt-of three
judgeq. Aetof October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 stat.'220. 'The
operation of the order of the Commission was stag.ed aid
shspended. After tril, final decree was.entered setting
aside the Commission's order -and rule 4 and enjoining
theUnited- StMtes, the Commission and the 'defendant
eariemft
reatr't
the rights of -appellees-in accord.

UNITED STATES v. NEW RIVER CO.'
*533

539

Opinion of the Court.

ance with the order and rule or through any other order
or'rule to the same effect. 293 Fed. 460. The United
Sthtes -and the Interstate 'Commerce. Commission appealed. No. 627. The interveners appealed. No. 628.
The carriers did not appeal.
The questions for decision are: Whether the order was

subject to review, by the District Court; and, if so,
whether it should be set aside.
1. The District Courts have jurisdiction over "cases
brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend in whole or
in part any order of the -Infrstate Commerce Commission.' Act of June 18,1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539; Judicial,
Code, § 207, Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36"Stat. 1148;
Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32., 3 Stat. 219. The appellants contend the order is negative and therefore
not subject to review by the court. They cite Procter
& Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282; Hooker v.
Knapp, 225 U. S.. 302, and Lehigh Valley .R. R. Co. v.
United States, 243 U. S. 412. In Mhe first of these cases,
application was made by the Procter& Gamble Company'a shipper and owner of-tank cars, to'be relie;ed from pay-'
ing demurrage charges, i.p acordance with demurrage
.rples applied by the carrnei. The Commissitn'dismissed
"'the complaint. As shown . y the report (19 L. . 0. 556,
* 560); the reason'fdr dismissal was that the tanl" cars were
.made subject to the demurrage rules, by an arrangement
* between the shi] per owning the cars and the carrier hauling them. 'The question before this Court (p.. 292) was
whether the Commerce Court had. power to exert its own
judgment. by" originally interpreting the qAiinistrative
features, of the Act to, Regulate Commerc: and upon
that assumption to. treat the: refusal of 1he Commission
to grant the relif prayed for.as an affrniative order, and
accordingly to pass on its correcthess. Hooker v. Knapp,
and Lehigh Valley B. R. Co. v. -Unitt.A States were debided on the authorityt.f the Proctr.- C( hble Case.

OOTOBWR TERM- XE2a.
Opion of the CoPA1 :

. ,265 U.S.

:

The' opinin in that -case, whezi viewed- i'e
i~it. kbf
the repor of -the Commissi6n, furnishes no sapport f6i.
* appellMits' contentions her.
Ih all of these cases,
arative. relief sought wai denied by- te Commissioi.Judicial review was refuseL'on. tat ground. -Thetaking
6f jiri ction in sich cases w.ould hvolve detemaination
:by theeours-wfhether relief denied by the Commission,
ia the. exercise of its powers, should, b6-granted. See

Thk0 OhagoJunctn Case;264U. S. 258. The authority.
conferred upon. the Commerce Court by.§ 207 .of the
Judicial .Code was"vested in -the -District C6urAs by tle.
Akct of October-22,1913; and- like thae authority previously
ex rciiod by the Feddraf Circuit Courts, is c6frfined to.
•detep~niig whether the Commissio'os order violates the
,Qonstituti6ni; or.excee the power delegated by statute,. •
'r-,Js a" exerq.e. of. power so. arbitrary as- virtually to
faseei ddie a thoity conferred. .Kda=d~s.GiSt&utern

'By. VTo.v. Viiite4'States;'Wl V. S. 4,
.WtuRy.-

Seeto

-4q9; Maneac(
-

CJo. -. :nited Stides, 246.U. S. 457; 483,.489.

Izlterattetfqmmeroe (ommi-mion V. Illinois Cen-,

tr B. B. C6. -215 U. S. 452, 470;} "biterstaieC .rn erce

Commaa,,v...Union Pkd

B, R. Co., 222 U. S. 54i,"

:547; 'Interniwnztai: Bate Casee 2.34. U. S.476, 4.90;
Sinner,&Eddy1-.orpora mnv. United States, 249 U . S.

557, 562-.
Theinere fa-. that. the -order of.'the' Commison- dis-'.
misses the complaipt" of shippers against rule 4 does not
mT
-- aiv."That rule, promulgated dur-',.
mg federal contrbl,. was. copntii4 -i effect upoi the
fecoimnendation of the Commission until it decided, Juiae
21, 1921, that the rule was' unduly prejudicial to joint"
mines ifid unduly preferential of local mi.es; and that
ihe c
sh4uldristr'bute cars tojoint mines on-1h%
basis.f thd 54r'
.- cit. rile-The .Commission refrained
-. fr.mialdng a ordei thatee-tre .be led-asa tar. ,,
.sch i% but anouhced,.that.. it eipected the ear4riW

.UNIED. STATES v. NEW RIVER CO.
533

54

Opinion of the cort.

promptly to ainend-their. carsvice rules to"coihfoim•
-with-its findings. :Accordingly, the 'cwier ceased to apply.
rui 4 "and applied the:-150 pbr (ent. rule in its place.
When'the cae-was reopened before the Co-on,"the
contest was fetween tfhe operatrs"of. locd mines attack•ing the 150 per cent. rule and the operators of joint mines.
supporting that rule and objectig-to r ile4. The .ComTm1ssion.reversed its iotmer .fmdings-nddecided i
favor
of' rule 4. and -disimised the complaints- asseig that.
rule.. The order exprssly includesthe findings aiLd conclusions Btated in the .rep6rt. It is nbt mereIy jaegative,
.. Clearly, -&e order'permts.and authorizes .the egniers to
.apply rule 4-. If that rule is illegal; as aeged,,such.er..

mission and authority will"iiot.sustain it,
and uit will
lie to set it aside.' The Chicgo JTunctioi Case, ipr
.Plai, y it was the intention and purpose-of the-Conmission that rile.4 should.be appliea in place oi 'he 150
-per cent. rule. The effect of the order is to grant-the ilief
so'ught by the-operators of ]ocal hnines. 'We-hold that
* the District Court had jurisdiction.
2. Appellees contend that erch ojerator of a joini mine
has a legal right to its fair share of.tie car supply of each
carrier, serving-the mine;, that the 6perat& on any day
may"offer the pro.spefive output of the min' to any carrier serving it and is entitled on that basis to its share
of the carrier's available cars, and that, if any poition
of the output remainso the operator may- offer it to the
second carrier and is entitled'to a fair share of that carrier's available cars. This'practice is forbidden by rule 4,
approved by the 6rdei of the Commission. The court
below held'he order invalid as discriminatory in that it
deprived the operator of ajoint mine of an advalitage to
which it has a legal right:"'.
The Intbrstate Commerce Act confers power on the
Commission to regulate:the distribution of cars.:-See'§ 'I,,
•(3), (4), (6), (10), (If.), (-12), (14); § 2 (1);- 15 (1y.:

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Cout.

265 U.S.

And its jurisdiction over the sibject is exclusive. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central B.- R1?.
Co., supra, 472; Baltimore & Oid 1. B. Co. v. Pitcairn,
'Coal Co., 215- U. S. 481, 493; Morrisddae Coal Co. v.
PennsylvaniaR. R-Co., 230 U. S.304, 313; ,Fennsyvania
R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., -237U. S. 121, .131, 133;
PenizsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456,
468; PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Stiaeman Coal Co., .242
U. S. 298,300. The courts will not review'determinations
of the Commission made within the scope of its*powers
or substitute their judgment for its findings and -conclusions. Interstate Coihmerce Commission v. Illinois Central R. B. Co., supra,470; Interstate Comnmerce Commission v. Union Pacifi. R. B: Co., supra, 547; Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, 456; United
States v. Louisville &.Nashville R. B. Co.; 235 U. S. 314,
320; ManufacturersBy.'Co. v. United States, supra, 488.
Under rule 4, an operator of a local mine is entitled on
the basis of its daily rating to its pro rata share of the
available cars of the carrier serving it. An operator of :a
joint mine is not conineid to-any one carrier serving it.
It may order froih each carrier, but the total number of.
cars ordered may not exceed tfe gross daily rating of.
the mine: It may select the carrier which at the tihe"
has the better-car supply and receive its pro rata share of
that supply according to its gross, daily rating, based on
its, pacity to ship by all carriers. It may choose between
the carridrs to secure the service, connections and markets
it desires to haveL. The determination of th6 Comission
in favor of rule 4 cannot -besaid to be so arbitrary or
unreasonable as to transcend the power conferred upon it,
mii'respect to car distribution. The contention that the
order of the.Commission deprivas operators of. joint"
mines of their pioperty without due proceps of "lawis
*without merit.
Deree..reversed.

UNITED STATES v. NEW RIVER CO..43
533

MqKE.NNA,

X.,

dissenting.

"

Mit. JusTxcEf McKsmzqA, dissenting.

Let me state the proposition of the .opinion denudedof the confusion of its words. It is that. the owner of
propertyZ-a "joint mine," to iise the desigdiation of the
case-having available to him the ca facilities of two carriers, must yield his idvantage or some of it.to the owner
of a "local mine ' (to use the designation of the case)
who' is not .so situated.
I am unable to assent and yet I hesitate .to dis en't,certafiily hesitate to do so by -unsupported declaration.
I'amn, however; puzzled, to go lieyond declaration. Ex*position s~enis to be that of demonstrating the certainty
ahd self-evidence of an axioim. The doctrine of the
opinion is that the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and this Court in sustaining it, can take from property
an attribute, almost as'tangible an attribute as its physisubstance-that is, its position, that which- avails
-cal
and makes wealth of itg products. This, in my opinion,
is a*deprivation of property.. I repeat, to have -it inti*mately in our attention and estimation, that the doctrine
of !he opinion is that the owner of a "joint mine" may
- not avail of the carg accessible to his situation-cars of
two carriers--only .in a degree-he' must yield in other
degree the full advantage *of his position to the owner
of a " local iine!' that the latter may have accommodation. And why? Is it the dictate of public interest? And
if public interest may so dictate, may it not. dictate other.
constituents and conditions of property,--whatever contributes to its value and is formidable to a competitor?
Position of property is as much a constituent of its
value as ifs compbsition. A market for its products is
as necessary as its products.- There must be demafid for
the products and means of their supply, and'b6t, I repeat, axe attributes of property. "Indeed, they constitute
its value aside from its utility. Take them away or limit

544.

.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1.923.
M'cgNqA;3., disentIng

265 U. S.

them and you take away or limit its value-its right.and.
exercisez-its. existence. '
Property has 'adversaries in this worId and different
forms excite diffei-ent degrees.of'antagonism, bit we have
not yet attaed to. thai subserviency of regulation -hat
" one owner of property must surrender the advantage of
his position'to every other owner, giving up what is of
value to hini, and what was of cost to him,
,And What is- the justification.-the interest of the publie? Is it an exercise of eminent doimain? Under Mie
fundamental law it is a cbndition of the exercise of. eminent domain that it recompense th-detrinient it causes
or the property it takes. This would seem so-element z
as to require no exposition.. If one property owner may
be required to share his:means of reaching markets with
another property owner, why not the markets; and hav"ing customers of -adefiite portion of the alphabet, be
required: to rei'and the' rest of it to other property
oewners?,
One-residing in this town should 'need. no ifustration
of the advaptage of postion." One can not step out, on
the stree tsithout having thrust upon him. the evidenceof the-e r push of.businesi to a4vantageous positions,
recognizing their value and paying with eager competi"
tion. the increas of. price...
According to the doctrine of the opinion, the inducement does not exist mla coal mine, but whatever Wdyantage of instrumentalitles it has it must share in the pubh'
interest with a competitor. 'If go, why not all instrumentalities-those it-owns as well asithose that by its position
itis aiWe to obtan,
Nov is the proposition of the opinion justified because
it Is the dispositiou of an: instrumentality of 'a public
servicmfgpration. l repeat, -a. an. owner bf property
is entitled in the- exerpise of his rights 'and satisfaction of.
his needs to; demand service of :the carriers to. which he

.EVE1ARD'S BREWERIES v. DAY.533

Syllabus.

has relation according to his rights and needs, and in the
order of their requisition, and the abilitj of he carrier.
I coicur. in the reasoning of Commissioner 'Potter.
"We may not restrict the use of transportation facilities
in order to equalfie mine operation. To do so would-be
to require discrimination in the use of equipment-not
remove it. If a local mine is at a disadirantagd it is
not because of a transportation problem with which we
may deal..
. ." The question imthe case ismaie obsoue by an attempt
at its simplification. It seems the prompt aswrance of
* self evidence that a -mine owAer-with the facilities of two
railroads may order such number of cars from both railroads as he may need, this being a right relative to. his
property, indispu, ably an. element of" its value, represented in its price and the cost to him.
.Itink, therefore, the decree should
be affirmed.
JAAES -EVERARD'S BREWERIES v. DAY, PROH IBITION DIRECTOR OF TE STATE OF NEW
YORK, ET At.
EDWARD AND-JOHN BURKE, LIITED, v. BLAJR,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
ET AL.
APPEALS MOM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THEM UNITED STATES
FOR ME SOUTHER "DISTRICT OF N1EW YORM.

Nos. 200 and 245. Argued March 4, 5, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1.'Section 2 of the Supplemental Prohibition Act of November 23,
1921, in so far as it prevents physicians from prescribing intoxic ting malt liquors for medicinal !iurposes, is constitutional.
P. 557.
2. This provision does not-violate the Tenth .Amendment, since it
is not an invasion of power reserved to the States. P558.
3. It is supported both by'the implied power of Congress t6 make
laws necesary and proper for executing powers expressly granted

