S196

""OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.

right, but in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion.
Although classed as a legal remedy, in issuing it a court
*must be largely controlled by equitable principles. Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308, 312; Arant v.
L.ne, 249 U.'S..367, 371. It would be a useless waste of
time and effort to enfoice a trial in the Court of Claims
if we were, upon appeal, to find that the petitioner was unjustly deprived of his substantial right -to dismiss his
petition, as *e should have to do for. the reasons stated.
Added to this is the consideration which has been regarded as furnishing a substantial ground. foi the extraordinary process of the writ that the petitioner by a denial
of his right to dismiss in the Court of Claims will be de-prived of a right.of trial by jury in the state court of
'Washington. Ex parte Peterson,253 U. S. 300, 305; Ex
parte Simons, 247 U. S. 231, 239.
W~it absolute.
NEW YORK, PHILADELPHIA & NORFOLK TELE-

GRAPH COMPANY v. DOLAN, COLLECTOR OF
TAXES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF

THE CITY OF WILMINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE.

No. 275. Argued May 2, 1924.-Decided May 12, 1924.

The charter of 'Wilmington,Delaware, provides for the assessment
for taxation of telegraph lines in the city at not less than $6,600
nor more than $7,300 for each mile of the streets used, the rate of
tax being the same as in other cases. Held, not a property but a
privilege tax, within the power of the State as applied to a local
corporation, and not repugnant to the due process or equal proteetion clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
121 Ati. 18, affirmed.

P. 97.

ERmoR to a judgment of the, Supreme Court of Delaware affirming a recovery.by a tax collector in an action
to .collept a tax.

NtW YORK TEL. CO. v. DOLAN.
Opinion of the Court.

96

Mr. Overton Harrisand Mr. Horace Greeley Eastbizrn
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Caleb S. Layton, with whom Mr. James R. Morford was on the brief, for defendant in error.

Mi. Ji smdo. HormoEs delivered the opinion of the'
Court.
This is a iuit brought by the-collector of taxes, the defendant in error, to recover taxes due to the City of Wilmington for the years 1913 to and through 1918. The
defendant Telegraph Company, the plaintiff in error, demurred to the declaration on the ground that the statute
imposing the taxes deprived it of its property without.
due process of law and denied to it the equal protection
of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United Stites. The demurrer was
overruled and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff
by the Superior Court and the judgment was affirnied by
the Supreme Court of the State. 121 AtI. 18.
The statute in question is an Act of April 7, 1913,
amending ยง 80 of the charter of the City of Wilmington.
Laws 1913, c. 205. It authorizes an assessment of tele*graph lines in the city at not less than six thousand
six hundred dollars and not more than seven thousand
three hundred dollars for each niile of the streets used.
The rate of taxation on these sums is the same as that
for other taxes and neither that nor the modes of determining the amount between the limits fixed is complained
of. But it is argued that this is a property tax upon the
company's poles and lines, and that it fixes an arbitrary
valuation upon them without giving the Company a
chance to be heard at any time before the tax is levied.
It is argued further that the Company is d&nied the equal
protection of the laws when it and a few others are sin-

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of te Court.

265 U. S.

gled out and other Delaware property is valued on the
actual facts.
The State Court met this argument by holding that
the tax was a license or privilege tax and therefore not
open to the objections urged. - The Company answers
that this is characterization of the-state, not construction, and that upon the issue of c6nstitutionality this
Court must determine the nature of the tax for itself and
is not bound by the name given to it below. , St. Louis
Cotton Gompr~ss Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346, 348.
The proposition is true, but when the State Court after a
candid discussion: that manifests no disposition ta escape
constitutional limits, has come to the conclusion reached
here, we should be slow to differ from it upon a matter
having so many putely local elements, even if we did not

think it right, as we do. Clyde v. Glchr;.1, 262 U. S.

94, 971.

The Company is a Delaware Corporation and there is
no dbubt that the State may impose the present .tax if it
has not used a wrong form of words in doing it. It might
impose it as a condition of the grant of the-franchise enjoyed by the curporation. It might authorize Wilmington
to impose it for the privilege of occupying the streets.
The State Court relies mainly .on the latter ground. We
shall not repeaf the arguments of that Cburt drawn from
-the historyof the legislation concerned and the fact that
the last preceding form of this section was admitted to
lay a privilege tax. It is. enough to refer to its further
argument that the valuation expressed in the act is not
a valuation 7f the Company's property, which the Company says is worth only about $500 a mile, but a valuation
of the privilege granted. The statute does not tax by
the poles, the Company's property, but by the mile, the
measure of occupatiojn of the streets. Underground. wires
are worth more and are taxed less. The supposed dis-.
crimination is based.upon the same grounds. Telegraph

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. PRUDE.
96

99

Counsel for Parties.:

companies occupy the streets with their pbles and may be
required to pay. for it. Therefore we have no need to
decide how far the State might go in discouraging some
particular activity, if so minded, by.taxes as well as by
penalties. Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U. S.
331. Neier shall we consider how far a legislature may
go when it deals with specified lands. Valley Farm Co.
v. Westchester, 261 U. S. 155.
Judgment affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
PRUDE.
ERROR AM CERTIORA

v.

TO' HE SUPREME COURT OF TE

STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 272. Submitted May 1, 1924.--Decided May 12, -1924.
1. A decision of a.State Supreme Court denying an interstate carrie an immunity based upon a stipulation on an interstate pas-

senger ticket held reviewable by certiorari and not by writ of
error. P. 100.

2. A ticket for interstate passage ovei several railroads bore a printed

stipulation limiting the selling carrier's liability to its own lines.
Held, that by accepting and usifig the ticket, though without

reading it, a passenger must be preshmed to have agreed to the
stipulation, thereby establishing a contract, prima facie valid, and
bindi g in a state court. P. 101.
156 Ark. 583, reversed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas affirming a judgment for damages in
an action against the above named railroad company
for an assault comniitted on the plaintiff while traveling
over the line of a connecting carrier.
Mr. Edward J.. White and Mr. Thomas B. Pryor for
plaintiff in error and petitioner.
Mr. S. S. Hargraves,Mr. S. H. Mann, Sr., and Mr. S. H.
Mann, Jr.,.for defendant in error and respondent.

