OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.

51

Syllabus.

STATE OF. OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF. TEXAS.

UNITED STATES, nTERVENE .
IN ZQUITY.

No. 15, OriginW1. Orders'Atered June 9, 1924'
Orders: 1. Granting Texas leave to file an amended counterclaim 4,d
-fixing time for answer.

2. That an injunction issue directng disnissal of a cerfa

a ton

against the receiver herein. [See ante, p. 490.]
3. Approving survey, etc., of medial line of pait of.RedlRiver; and

as to expenses, etb., of the commissioner.

[& ante, p. 493.]

4. Authorizing the receiver. to pay a Texas proa.ction -tax, upon"
stated conditions.
5..As to distribution of interest, discounts and -other :profits from
.general opeiations of receivership_
6. As to collection by receiver of claims and accounts and report of
those uncollected.
7. Directing, publication of final notice to claimants aid li f.ig.
time for presenting claims against receiver or receivership.
8. Fo;biddinj reimbursement by.'receiver for work on ifremunerative wells prior to receiversbip, and overruling appli(tions there'for.
9. Directing receiver how to 6pread general expenses overimpound 4.
funds.
10. Expenses and losses of receiver's wori on unremunerative rlvorbed wells to be charged to funds deriled from remunerative'riv'rbed wells.
11. Authorizing a, certain payment to one Testernian.
12. Denying another claim bf Testerman.:-.
13. Amending order of June 1, 1921, by authorizing reimbursemenu,
by receiver for'well No. 139, on eirtain conditions.
14.-wells,
Authorizing receiver to surrender south half of rivei bed, witu
etc., to Secretary of the Interior, as repre en
ative of theUnited States.
15. Authorizing receiver to deliver certain other property to said
Secretary, as representative, etc., with prov.ions for ,valuationi
for crediting'receiver and for charging Unitd State~s . *
16. Authorizing receiver to pay, said .ecretary, as repiesentative,
etc., pftt.of net funds from iiVer-bed wells...

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Orders.

265 U.S.

17. Authorizing receiver to surrendel zo their several owners and
lessees flood-plain .(Texas) wells, with pipe lines, etc., in absence of
controversy or doubt as to persons entitled.
18. Instructing receiver to publish notice to claimants of funds from
flood-plain wells, limiting time for presenting claims; with provisions as to payment, or, in case of controversy or doubt, report

to the Court.
19. Directing audit of receiver's accounts.

1. The motion of the defendant; the"State of Texas,
for leave to "fi&ah amended countei'-claim relating to
the i-nterstate boundary along the one-hundredth meridian is granted; and the complainant, the State of 0kla
homa, and the intervener, the United States of America,
are severoaly given until and including the firsnt Monday
of October next within which to answer such amended
counter-claim.
2. On consideration of the response made'by J. H'
Duhon and HR. J. Kebideaux to the order to show cause
issued against them on May 5, 194, such response is
found insufficient and it is ordered that an injunction be
issued directing that they dismiss the action brougn by
them against the receiver :n this cause in the District
Court of Wichita County, Texas, and that they refrain
from taking any ottber proceeding or step in that action.
3. The report of the boundary commissioners of the
survey and platting'of the medial line of Red River hi
the vicinity of the river-bed wells; pursuant to tfle order
of June 4, 1923, 262 U. S. 505, is approved aid adopted.
The teport-of "such conaissioners of the time employed
and expense incurred in that work is also approved, *and
the receiver is directed to pay the sums specified in such
report and to charge the same again., the impounded
funds derived from the river-bed wells.
4. On consideration of the motion of the State of Texas
that the receiver pay out-of 'he proceeds of the receiver&hipwells south of the interstate boundary the.prcduction
tax prescribed by the laws of that State; it is ordered that

OKLEAHOMA
513

I

-

.

TEXAS.

515

Orders.

the receiver be authorized; out of the impounded proceeds from every such well, to pay such tax in -respect
of such impouided proceeds and to charge the- same
against such well as an expense specially pertaing to it.
But before making any such payment the receiver shall
request the Attorney General of the State of'Texas, and
the parties interested in the fundfrom which the payment is to be made, to submit to him definite statements
showing the amount of the tax and whethei it lids been
otherwise paid. If in any instance the receiver Win doubt
respecting the propriety of the payment he shall withhold it and repori the mater to this Court for further
instructions.
5. The receiver is instructed to distribute pro rata over
the impounded funds in his, custody all interest received
oh receivership moneys, all discounts collected and all
other similar items of .profit arising from the general
operations or business of the receiiership, and not fr6m
particular wells.
6. The receiver is authorized to take'all proper steps
to obtain payment of allaccounts and claims that may be
due or owing to him as such receiver and to report to the
Court at its next term all of such accounts and claims
as then may remain unpaid with his recommendations
respecting the measures to be taken to enforce payment.
7. The receiver is directed to publish a final notice to
all persons asserting or holding claims against him or the
receivership arising out of matters accruing since the
claims' notice of June 1, 1921, to present such claims
within forty days after the first publication of such notice,
in default of which the claims will be barred.
8. The receiver is instructed to make no reimbursement, under the order of Jine 1, 1921, 256 U. S. 607, or
otherwise, to any operator or driller for work done on any
river-bed well prior to the receivership where the well
has proved to be a dry hole or unproductive; and all,

516

OCTOBER TER
Orders.

1923.
265 U. S.

applications and suggestiqns that reimbursement be made
for.such work are overruled.
9. The receiver is"
instructed to spread.the general expenses of the receivirship over all the impounded funds
.n.his custody in such waS, that each dollar in the.funds
derived from river-bed vells, and in those -derived from
flood-plain wells ihich-have remained in the operation
of the receiver, will bear twice-as muih of such expenses
as each dollar inthe funds derived from flood-plaid wells
which have -been operated by private claimants will
bbar. The spreading shall be made evenly over all moneys
in the funds bearing the lesser share of the expenses,
and evenly over al moneys in the funds bearing the
larger -share. No distinction shall be inade between
moneys going to owners of flood-plain wells aEid moneys
going to.lessees of such wells. Neither shall.be exempted
and the spreading over !he two shall be on a pro rata"
basis. [See ante, 505.]
-10. All expenses and losses incident to work done by'
the receiver on river-bed wells which proved unremunerative.shall be charged against the. funds derived from remunerative'wells in the river bed.'
11. The receiver is authorized to.pay, to Tom Testerman the sum received by the receiver on the sale by
him of equipment- belonging to Mr. Testerman which
had come into'the possession of the receiver..
12. The petition of Tom Testerman asIdng that he
be reimbursed out of funds enuring to the Bass Petroleum
Company, its successor or assigns, for the c6nversion by
.such company, prior to the receivership, of property
claimed by Mr. Testerman is denied.
.13..Notwithstanding the exception of well No. 139,
known as the Burk-Senator well, from.the order of June
1, 1921, 256 U. S. 607, the receiver is authorized, in~his
discretion, to reimburse the- operators who drilled that
well prior to the receivership for the cost of that work,

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
513

•"517

Ordrs.

if the operators vho participated therein are disposed to
adjust the differences between them and to accept a reimbursement -which is satisfactory to the receiver.
14. The receiver is authorized to surrender to the
Secretary of the Interior, as the representafive of the
United States7 the possession of all of the south half of
the river bed, now in thle receivership, with all oil wells,
pipe. lines and other property pertaining to such river.
bed,--the surrender to be made at the close of business
on the 30th of June, 1924, or as soon thereafter as *the
Secretary of the .Interior is prepared to take over that
property.
15. The receiver is authorizeil to deliver to the Secretaryof the Interior, as the representative of the United
States, at the time of the surrenoer imed in the last
paragraph the offide buildings, equipment and supplies "
belonging to the receivefship and intended for use in its
-oil and gas operations,--the deliiery td"be at a valuation
agreed upon between the Secretary of.the Interior and the
receiver. The agreed price shall be charged to the United
States and credited to the receiver-as a partial payment to
the former of the money enuring to it as proceeds of
river-bed wells.
16. The receiver is authorized to pay over to the Secretary of the Interior, as the representative of the United
States, at the time of the surrender and delivery named
in the last two paragrapt approximately two-thirds of
the net impounded funds derivie from the river-bed wells.
17. The receiver is authorized to surrender to the several owners or lessees entitled thereto, as soon as arrangements therefor sati.factofily can be made, the possessi6n
of the flood-plain wells which he is now operating, to-

gether with the pipe lines and fixtures pertaining to them.
If there be controversy r dbubt as to who is entitled
to any particular well-the receiver shall withhold its sur-

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

render for the time being and pursue the course indicated
in the next paragraph of this order.

18. The receiver is instructed to publish notice to all
claimants to funds in his custody derived from flodplain wells (meaning wells south of the interstate boundary as n6w established) to present their claims to such
funds within forty days after the first publication of such
notice,-the presentation to be in the form of a definite
statement of what is claimed and of the claimant's title.
After the expiration of twenty days more the receiver
shall be authorized, where there are no conflicting claims,
to pay the proceeds from any well or wells, less expenses
and charges, to the proper claimant or claimants. If
there. be controversy or doubt as to who is entitled to the
proceeds frdm any well the receiver shall withhold action
as to such proceeds and report the matter to this Court
at its next term for further instructions.
19. The receiver is directed to have all of his accounts
audited as of the close of business on June 30, 1924, by
an expert public accountant designated by the Chief
Justice.
IDAHO IRRIGATION- COMPANY, LTD., ET AL. v.
GOODING ET AL.
GOODING ET AL. v. IDAHO IRRIGATION COMPANY, LTD., ET.AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 324=
ad 336. Argued April 11, 14, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1. A contract by a water company 'in Idaho granting a water right
of so much water per acre is to be read with and controlled by stat-"
utes of the State limiting hllowances to the amount used for beneficial purposes, and, forbidding a water-right owner to use more
than good husbandry requires. P. 523.

