OPELIKA v. OPELIKA SEWER CO.
Argument for Appe~lee.

CITY OF OPELIKA v. OPELIKA SEWER COMPANY..
AP!PEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 524. Argued April 8,9, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. A public service corporation is bound by rates fixed by a valid
contract between it and a city even if the rates become so unremunerative that, if imposed under the police power, they would
be ceonfiscAtory in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 217.

2. Decisions of the Supreme Court of Alabama construing the state
constitution and a city charter, as permitting the city to grant a
sewer company the right to operate in the city for a term of
years at stipulated rates, subject to power in the legislature to
revoke the contract, held binding in a suit by the company to
obtain relief from the rates on the ground that they had become
confiscatory. Id.
280 Fed. 155, reversed.

APPEAL from a, decree of the District Court which enjoined the above-named city from preventing the plaintiff
appellee from putting into effect a new schedule of rates,
Mr. 3. J. Mayfeld for appellint.
Mr. Win. Fi dly Bron for appellee.
The sole question involved is whether the City hd.i the
power to fix irrevocable rates by contract. On behalf of
the appellee company it is contended that the franchise
ordinance of 1901 did not ionstitute a contract between
the City and the"Compapy in so far as it relates to the
rates for sewerage service, because: (1) The City had no
power to fix irrevocable rates by contract; and (2) even if
the Legislature had attempted to grant such power, it
would be in violation -of ยง 22 of the constitution of

Alabama.
Appellant's argument is based upon the theory that in
granting the franchise the City was actin in its private

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellee.

265 U. S.

business capacity and argues that it could not have been
acting in its governmental capacity because it has no
power conferred upon it by the State to regulate rates.
Appellant then assumes from such alleged lack of power'
that the City must have had the power to contract for
irrevocable rates. The charter expressly grants to the
City the power to establish and build sewers and regulate
the same, which clearly includes the power to grant the
franchise to a public utility company and to regulate the
rates, but even if .no express power to regulate rates is
granted, manifestly, a power to contract for irrevocable
rates and thus surrender the police power to regulate for
the benefit of the public cannot be inferred merely from
the absence of an express grant of power to regulate.
Furthermore, the City in exercising the power granted
in its charter to establish and build sewers and regulate
the same, and to maintain the health and cleanliness in
the City and to this end.to adopt and maantain an efficient
system of sewerage, was clearly acting in its governmental capacity for the protection of the health of its
inhabitants-exercising an express governmental power
as provided in its charter.
The power of a city to make an irrevocable contract
fixing rates cannot be admitted unless its existence is very
clear. Home Telephone (o. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
265; Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434;
Detroitv. Detroit Citizins' Street Ryp. Co., 184 U. S. 368;
Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517;
Columbus Ry..Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399; Muscatine Lighting Co. v. Muscatine, 256 Fed. 929; Southern
Iowa Elec. Co. v. Chariton, 255 U. S. 589; Birmingham
Waterworks Co. v. Birmingham, 211 Fed. 497; Knoxvifle Gas Co. v. Knoxville, 261 Fed. 283.
Had the power to fix rates by contract been expressly
granted to the City, it would be ineffective, as in violation of ยง 22 of the constitution of Alabama. Mobile v.

OPELIKA v. OPELIKA SEWER CO.
215

"217"

Opinion of the Court.

Mobile ElectricCo., 203 Ala. 574; Birmingham Co. v. BirAingham, 79 Ala. 465; San Antonio Traction Co. v. Altgelt, 200 U. S. 804; San Antonio v. San Antonid Public
Service Co., 255 U. S. 547; Southern Iowa Elec. Co. v.
Chariton,255 UI. S. 539; Denver v. Stenger, 277 Fed. 865.
MR. JusTcE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the
Court/
This is a suit by the Opelika Sewer Company to enjoin
the City against preventing the plaintiff by various means
at its disposal from putting into effect a schedule of rates
that the plaintiff has proposed. Ii is to be taken that
the present rates, which the plaintiff seeks to increase,
are confiscatory unless the City has a right to insist upon
them; and the question before us is whether the City
has that right by contract or whether its enforcement of
them deprives the plaintiff of its property without due
process of law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States as alleged in the
bill. Cincinnativ. Cincinnati& Hamilton Traction Co.,
245 U. S. 446. The District Court held that there was no
valid contract and issued an injunction as prayed. The
City appealed to this Court.
The Sewer Company is operating under an ordinance
of 1902, which purported to grant the right for lhirty
years, and to authorize the Company to charge not in
excess of rates specified in detail. It also provided that
the Company should file a written acceptance, which was
done, and that the ordinance "shall thereupon become
and be a contract between" the Company and the City.
There can be no question that the instrunent purported
to be a contract and that if it was a valid one it bound
the Sewer Company not to charge more than the prescribed rates. Columbus Ry., Power & Light Co. v.
Columbus, 249 U. S. 399. Whether it was valid under
the laws of Alabama, belongs to the Supreme Court of

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265U.S.

the State to decide. The Constitution leaves the matter
at large, It is true that it provides that no law "making
any irrevocable or exclusive grants of special priv leges
or immunities, shall be passed by the. Legislature; and
[that] every grant of a franchise, privilege or immunity,
shill forever remain subject to revocation, alteration or
amendment." No doubt it is true also that the Legislature could not make such a grant indirectly by giving
power to a city to make it. But we see no'reason to doubt
that the Legislature without impairing its power to revoke may give a city.power to make a contract from which
the city of its own motion may not recede. The City
has not attempted to recede from it. So we turn to the
charter for light.
The charter of February 20, 1899, gives power "to
maintain the health and cleanliness of the city, and to
this end to adopt and maintain an efficient system of
sewerage," ยง 11; and further on "io establish and build
,drains, sewers

. . . and to regulate the same" and

still later to provide for assessing upon adjacent property a part of "the expense of such sewers as the board
may from time to time deem necessary for the purpose of.
receiving sewerage from houses and lots" &c. These provisions suggest'that the Legislature expected the work to
be done by the City itself. But it is not the interest of
either party to maintain that the whole transaction-was
void and we shall assume that the City had-p6wer to
make an arrangement with a companiy to do the work.
The Alabama decisions construe the State Constitution
and such charters to allow a contract to be made, subject
to being revoked whenever the Legislature of the State
may think fit. Greenville v. Greenville Water Works Co.,
125 Ala. 625, 639: Weller v. Gacsden, 141 Ala. 642, 655,
659. Gadsden. v. Mitchell, 145 Ala. 137, 157. Mobile
Electiia06. v. Mobile, 201 Ala. 607, 609.
It seems to us that the words of the charter "to establish and build sewers and to regulate the same" are used.

DAVIS v. CORONA COAL CO.
215

Statement of the Case.

with reference to sewers built by the City and the regulation of the City's own property. They do not go far
enough to empower it to regulate prices charged by
another-and in short we find no grant of that character
elsewhere. But, as we have said, the Alabama decisions
sustain the conclusion that the City had the power to
make the contract .:upon which it relies. In Bessemer v.
Bessemer City Water Works, 152 Ala. 391, it was held
that a city even though having the power to regulate rates
could bind itself by contract, but the precise language of
the charter does not appear. The Federal Circuit Court
of Appeals in the same jurisdictioni takes the same view
of the AlabamiL decisions that we have expressed. -Birmingham v. Birmingham Waterworks Co., 213 Fed. 450,
affirming s. c. 211 Fed. 497.
Decree reversed.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, AS
AGENT OF THE UNITED STATES, v. CORONA
'COAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE PARISH OF.

OR

ANS OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 819. Argued May 5, -1924--Decided May 26, 192j.
An action by the Director General of Railroads, in a state court; to.
recover for damage done to a railioad wharf while it was under federal control, is'not.subject to the state statute of limitations. Cf.
Dupont De Nemours & Co. v. Davis,264 U. S. 456. P. 222.
Reversed.

to k judgment of the Court of Appeal 6f the
*Parish of Orleans, Louisiana, (which the Supreme Court
of the State declined to review,) sustaining the defense
of prescription in an action for damages brought by .the
Director General of Railroads.
CERTIORARi

