182

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.

U. S. 35. That decree was entered April 11, 1921, and
this bill was filed within thirty days thereafter. We think
there was no laches or abandonment.
The decree of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the
cause is remanded'to the Supreme Court of the District
for further proceedings..

'Reversed.
Dissenting, MR. JusTicE McRPiYNOIMS.

HA1MkfdRSCHMIDT ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORA

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAI

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 254. Argued April 29, 0, 1924.--Decded May 2 .1924.
1. Section 37 of the Criminal Code (Rev. Stats., § 540) punishing
conspiracy to defraud .the United StAtes in any manner or fok
any purpose," does not embrace a conspiracy to defeat the pur-pose of the Selective Draft Act by inducing persons-to refuse to
register under it. P. 185.
2. To "defraud" the United States means to cheat the Government
out of property or money, or to interfere with or obstruct dne of
its lawful governmental functions by deceit, craft or trickery, or at
least by means that are dishonest. P. 188.
3. But mere open defiance of the governmental purpose to enforce a
law by'urging those subject to it to disobey it, is not a "fraud"
in this sense. Id. Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, explained; Hor"wan v. United States; 116 Fed. 350, limited.
287 Fed. 817, reversed.
CRTIORABI to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirming a conviction and sentence in a prosecution for conspiracy to defraud the tnited-States by dissuading persons;.by .handbills, etc., from registering for
-military service.

.Mr.Ed. F. Alemader,with whom Mr. Joseph W. Sharts
was on the brief, for petitioners.

HAMAMRSCHMIDT v. U. S.
182

183

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Assistanit Attorney General Davis, with whom Mr..
SolicitorGeneralBeck anid Mr-. Clifford H. Byrnes, Special'
Assistant'to tie Attorziey Gefieral, were on the brief, for
the United States.
The facts charged in the indictment constitute-a conspiracy to defraud the United States.
The purpose of the statute is to secure the wholesome
administration of the laws and affairs of the United States.
United States v. Moore, 173 Fed.. i22; United States v.
Stone, 135 Fed. 392.
It is not limited to consp"-hcies to deprive the United
States of property or money, buf is broad.enough to
cover any consiraoy to defraud the United States of 'any
right, including the obstruction of the lawful functions of
any department of the Government." Haas V.Henkel,
216 U. S. 462; Hyde 4v. Sine, 199 U. S. 62; United States
v. Foster, 233 U. S. 515;'United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370; United States v. Sacka, 257 U. S. 37; United
States v. "anowitz, 257 U. S.42; Firthv. United States,
253 IFed. 36; United States v. Galleanni,-245 Fed. 977.
The conspirators may not escape the consequences of their
agreement to do an illegal thing because they did not resort to deception or trickery. Haas v. Henkel, supra;
United States v. Slater,278 Fed. 266; Edwards v. United
States, 249 Fed. 686; Horman. v. United States, ld Fed.
350.
The Selective Service Act, among other.things, requed
that all male eitizdns between the ages of twenty-one and
thirty should register for service in the militry and naval
forces of the United States.
In the.face of.this statute petitioners caused to be
printed, with the idea of distributing to the public at
large, several thousand handbills attacing the Draft Act
and counseling or commanding to "refuse to register..for"
conscription.' The indic.tment avers that a number of
them were distributed. The conduct of petitioners con-

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

265 U.S.

'stituted a conspiraey to defraud the United States in
that the intention and necessary effect of their agreement and acts was to obstruct and defeat the purpose of
a measure enacted by Congress for the preservation of
the Government. Such conduct was not within the
criminal provisions of the Selective Service Act (§§ 5
and 6), and at the time of the offense the Espionage Act
had not been enacted.
It is argued that petitioners did not conspire to impair
the functions of "C.the department of military registration." The indictment is not so narrow. It charges a
conspiracy to impair the function of registration. Such
function is a mutual and reciprocal obligation, requiring
(1) that persons within the terms of the Draft Law present themselves for registration, and (2) that the government officials examine applicants and make a record of
their qualifications for military service. The duties of
registration oficials are a part of such function only. The
term obviously refers to the entire activity of registration
and includes whatever is done by the applicants as well
as the acts of government employees who examine applicants and make a record of the-information so obtained.
It is, therefore, fallacious to contend that there was-no interference with the function of registration because petitioners did not hinder oi obstruct registration officials in
the performance of their office.
The real question is whether a conspiracy organized for
the express purpose of depriving the Government,
through the distribution of circulars and other literature containing gross misstatements of fact,, of the services of those upon whom the country must rely in the
hour of national peril, does not, if consummated, thereby
defraud the United States in the broad sense in which the
term defraud is used in § 37 of the Penal Code.
[The form of the indictment, and a defens.e based on
the First Amendment were also discussed.]

A MERSCHMIDT v. U. S.
182

186

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CGmr JUsTIcE. TA_.

delivered the opinion of tle

Court.
This is a, review by certiorari of the conviction of thirteen persons charged in one indictment with the crime
of violating § 37 of the Penal Code. The charge was
that the petitioners wilfully and unlawfully conspired to
defraud the United States by impairing, obstructing and
defeating a lawful function of its government, to wit:
that of registering for ilitary service all male persons
between the ages of tiventy-one and thirty as required by
the Selective Service Act of May 18, 1917, c. 15, 40 Stat.
76, through the printing, publishing and circulating of
handbills, dodgers and other matter intended and de-.
signed to counsel, advise and procure-persons subject to
the Selective Act to refuse to obey it. A demurrer to
the indictment was overruled and trial and conviction
followed. By exception and assignment of error the question is properly made whether a crime described as above
can be said to be a conspiracy to defraud the United
States. The Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
conviction. 287 Fed. 817.
The indictment was framed and the argument of the
Government in support of the conviction is based on
the language of this Court in Haas v. Henkel, 2161U. S.
462, 479, construing § 5440, Rev. Stats. (now § 37 6f the
Penal Code) which reads as follows:
"If two or.more persons conspire.
to defraud
the United States in any manner or for any purpose, and
one or more of such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, all. the parties to such conspiracy
shall be liable," etc.
The opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Lurton and
the words relied on are:
" The statute is broad enough in its terms to include
any. conspiracy for the purpose of impairing, obstructing

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Cdurt.

265 U. S.

or defeating the lawful function of any department of
Government."
This language it is contended necessarily embraces a
conspiracy to defeat the selective draft by inducing the
persons required to register under it to defeat its purpose by refusing to register.
We think the words relied on can not be given such a
wide meaning when we consider the case to which they
were applied, and wheni we replace them in the context.
The Court was dea4ng with an appeal in a habeas corpus
caie to test the validity pf an order of removal of the
appellant under § 1014, Rev. Stats. The main question
was whether the indictments under which the removal
was ordered charged an offense against the United States.
They charged two sets of conspiracies. One was that the
defendant with two others, one an associate statistician
in the Departihent of Agriculture, conspired to obtain
secret official information which the statistician in violation of'his official duty was to give out to his co-conspirators concerning the cotton crop reports in advance
of the time they were to be published according to law;
another was that the statistician was to falsify one of the
reports of which his-associates were to be advised in advance ; another was that the defendant and one associate
were to bribe the statistician to make the false report and
publish it in advance. The second conspiracy involving
the defendant, the statistician, .qnd other persons was
similar in detail to the first. All of the.inormation in
advance ,of the official publication was to be used for
speculative .purposes in the open market. The opinion
describes the 6fficial machinery in the Agricultural Department, for acquiring the information upon which the
cofton reports each month were based, and shows that
they were approved by the Secretary, and that by regulation the employees were required to keep them and their
-details secret.until duly published, and points out that

HAMMBRSCHMIDT v. U. S.
182

187

Opinion of the Court.

they were of great value and vitally affected the market price of the cotton crop.
The appellant in that case utged that the conspiracy
to defraud-the United States, punished in the section,
must result in financial loss to the Government. It was
this contention which the Court was meeting, and upon
.his point it said:
"These counts do not expressly charge that the conspiracY included any direct pecuniary loss to the United
States, but as it is averred that the acquiring of the information and its intelligent computation, with deductions,
comparisons and explanations involved great expense, it
is clear that practices of this kind would deprive these
reports of most of their value to the public and degrade
the department in general estimatioh, and that there
would be a real financial loss. But it is not essential that
such a .conspiracy shall c6ntemplate a financial loss or
that one shall result ", and then follows the sentence
already quoted upon which the Government relies.
It is obvious that the writer of the opinion and the
Court were not considering whether deceit or trickery was
essential to satisfy the defrauding required under the
statute. The facts in the case were such that that question was not presented. The deceit of 'the public, the
trickery in the advance publication secured by blibery
of an official, and the falsification of the reports, makie the
fraud and deceit so clear as the gist of the offenses actually
charged that their presence was not in dispute. The sole
queston was whether the fraud there practised must haveinflicted upon the Government pecuniary loss, or whether,
'its purpose and.effect to defeat a lawful functioAi of t e
Government and injure others thereby was enough.
That was all that Mr. Justice Lurton's words can be construed to mean. The cases in which this case has been referred, to involved unquestioned deceit.or false pretense,
and it was only cited in them to the point that financial

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 1. S.

loss of the Government is not necessary to violate the section. United States v. Foster,233 U. S.515, 526; United

States v. Barnow, 239 U. S. 74, 79. See also United States
v. Plyler,222 U. S. 15, in respect to § 5418, Rev. Stats.
To conspire to defraud the United States means primarily to cheat the Government out of property or money,
but it also means to interfere with or'bbstruct one of its
lawful governmental functions by deceit, craft or trickery,
or at least by means that are dishonest. It is not necessary that the Government shall be subjected to property
or pecuniary loss by the fraud, but only that its legitimate
official action and purpose shall be defeated by misrepresentation, chicane or the overreaching of those charged
with carrying out the governmental intention. 'It is true
that the words "to defraud" as used in some statutes have
been given a wide meaning, wider than their ordinary
scope. They usually signify the deprivation of something
of value by tiick, deceit, chicane or overreaching. They
do not extend to theft by violence. They refer rather to
-wronging one in his property rights by dishonest methods
or schemes. One would not class robbery or burglary
among frauds. In Horman v. United $tates, 116 Fed. 350,
§ 5480, Rev. Stats., as amended March 2, 1889, c. 393, 25
Stat. 873, making it a crime to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud by use of the mails and opening correspondence with any person, and'to mail a letter in execution thereof; was held to be violated by the sending of a
letter. threatening to blacken the character -of another
unless that other paid the blackmailer money. It was
•held that the word "scheme" in that section was of
broader meaning and did not necessarily iivolve. trickery
or cunning in the. scheme, if use of the mails was part of
it; that intent to defraud in such a statute was satisfied
by the wrongful p.urpose of injuring one in his property
-rights. The question had much considerati6n. The de.cision, however, .went.to the verge and should be con-

U. S. v. SUPPLEE-BIDDLE CO,
182

Syllabus.

fined to pecuniary or property injury inflicted by a scheme
to use the mails for the purpose. Section 5480 has since
been again amended to make its scope clearer. Its construction in the Horman,Case can not be used as authority
to include within the legal definition of a conspiracy to
defraud the United States a mere open defiance of the

governmental purpose to enforce a law by urging persons
subject to it to disobey it.
We think the demurrer to the indibtment in this case
should have been sustained and the indictment quashed.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. SUPPLEE-BIDDLE HARD-

WARE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THM COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 477. Argued April 9, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. The "Revenue Act of 1918" (passed February 24, 1919),'i-the
income tax provisions applicable to corporations, adopts the defii tion of gross income applicable to individuals (§ 213), which excludes "the proceeds of life insurance policies paid upon the death
of the insured to individual beneficiaries or to the estate 6f the
insured". Held, that there was no purpose, in the exemption, to
distinguish between individual beneficiaries, and corporate beneficiaries, and that the proceeds of insurance taken by a corporation
on the life of an important official, to secure its financial position
and indemnify itself against loss of earning power in case of his
death, were not taxable as income under the act. P. 194.
2. Assuming that Congress could tax proceeds of such indemnity life
insurance as income, its purpose to do so should be lxpress, in view
of the popular conception of life insurance as resulting in a single
addition to the resources of the beneficiary and not in a periodical
return. P. 195.
3. A construction of a war taxing act as imposing bo-'i an income and
an estate tax on the proceeds of life insurance should be avoided
unless required in express terms. Id.
58 Ct. Clms. 343, affirmed.

