OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
490-

493

Statenent of the Case.

Our conclusion is that an injunction should issue re4
straining the plaintiffs from .maintaining their action;
Such an injunction, in the circumstances disclosed, may
issue consistently with § 265 of the Judicial Code. Welli
Fargo& Co.-v.- Taylor, 254 U. S, 175.
Injunction granted.

STATE OF 0KLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.

UMITED STATES, INTERVENER.
"QUITY.
E
No. 15, Original. Order that reports.by commissioners respecting
running of boundary line, etc., be fled, and limiting time for
objections or exceptions, entered April 25, 1924; 'exceptions filed
May 22, 23, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1. An application for an oil and gas lease, under the Act of March
4, 1923, which is subject to approval.by the Secretary of the
Interior and grantable only after the Texas-Olf'ahona boundary
line.and the medial line of Red River shall have been settled by
this Court and the property released from the existing receivership, does not confer a present. and certain interest entitling the
. applicant to object to the report of the commissioners herein
* respecting the survey and location of the boundary. P. 495.
2. A practical construction of the decree herein (261 U. S. 340)
adopted by the commissioners -in locating.the boundary along the
*south bank of Red River at the -Big Bend Area, held reasonable
and correct. P. 496.
3. Where, through gradual'accretion occurring since the receiver
took possessioii, the south bank"of the river was extended horth* ward, the boundary was properly located along the bank as so
altered. P. 498.
4. A river-bank boundary follows natural accretion to the bank in
which anartificial structure was a minor factor. P. 499.
Reports of commissioners approved.
Upow a hearing of exceptions and protests to the report
of the commissioners on their survey, marking,'&c., of a
part of the boundary between Oklahomab and Texas.

OCTOBER TERM; 1923.

494

Op5mion of the Court.

-

265 U. S.

Their report on the location of the medial line of Red
River was submitted at the same time but was not
objected to.- See 261 U. S. 340; 262 U. S. 505; 264
U. S. 565. - The decree approving the report and fixing
'the -boundary will be found in this volume, p. 500,
et seq. The boundary report is recited in that decree.
For approval and. establishment of- the medial line,- see
post, pp. 513, 514.

'

Mr- George F. Short, Attomey General of the State of
Oklahoma, for.complainant.
Mr. E: E. Blake and Mr. R. L. Cole for Gratnd Oil and
Developing Company, intervener.
VAw D.vAwTbR delivered the opinion of

MnM.JusTc

the Court

.

'

On April 25 last the commissioners appointed to run,
survey, and mark portions of the-boundary between the.
States of Texas and Oklahoma along the Red River iinder
our decree of March 12, 1923 (261 U. S. 340) submitted
their repQrt covering the 'portion of the boundary along
the Big Bend.Area, and at the saane time sfibmitted their'.
report of the survey and platting of the medial line of
the river in the vicinity of the river-bed oil wells pursuant
to a supplemental order of June 4, 1923 (262 U. S. 505).
When the'reports were received, general leave was given
'to parties in interest to except to the reports, or either
of them, -within a period of four webks. - 264 U. S.' 565.
Exceptions to the boundary report were presented by the•
State of Qklahoma; the Grand Oil and Developing Company, and William A. Fondren; and infbrnaI protests
"against its"confrmaion were received from. Frank W.
"Thaison and J. E. Lester. No exceptions were taken to "
the medial line report. 0i May 26 a hearing b'forelthe
Court was had on the boundary renort; but nothIing, of

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
493

495

Opinion of the Court.

an evidential nature was offered in support of any of the
exceptions or protests.
The informal protests by Mr. Thaison and Mr. Lester
)require only passing notice. Their neither show that
their authors have any legal interest in the location of
the boundary, nor state any facts indicative of error in
the work or report of the commissioners.
The exceptions of the Grand Oil and Developing Company and Mr. Fondren show that the exceptors have at
best only a conjectural future interest in the location of
the boundary. It is a conjectural interest because it is
founded on the hope that applications which the exceptors have made'for oil and gas leases of parts of the
squtherly half of the river-bed, under the Act of March
4, 1923, c. 249, 42- Stat. 1448, will be granted by the
Secretary of the Interior. And it i a future interest
because it has not conie intb existence as yet, and because
the sixth section of the act precludes the Secretary from
granting such leases before the property is released fromthe existing receivership. Even after the release, -the
Secretary's authority will extend to such lands only as
may lie betweeii the interstate boundary*and the medial
line of the 'iver, as the two are settled by this Court.
Under present conditions, the United States has the sole
proprietary interest in whatever may be within those
limits, and it is not excepting to the boundary reported
by the commissioners. Plainly these exceptors do not
have such a-present or certain interest in the subject as
entitles them to complain.
We deem it proper, however, to notice one feature of
Mr. Fonaren's exceptions. In them -he asserts that the
commissioners were-selected as representing respectively
the United States and the State of Texas, and that counsel for the-State of Oklahoma were remiss in not insisting
on the selection of a third commissioner representing that
State. The assertion rests on a misapprehension of what

/

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

occurred. Originally there was a purpose io select three
commissioners and to direct that the boundary-be surveyed and marked for its full length along the river, 539
miles. But-as the southerly cut bank, held by the Court
to be the true boundary, afterwards was conceded to be
so well defined throughout the greater part of the distance
that it need not be surveyed or marked (Par. 12 of decree,
261 U. S. 343), the Court deemed it better and in the
interest of economy to commit the work on the portions
of the boundary not cove.red by that concession to two
commissioners instead of three. The two were selected
by the Court as its representatives, not as representatives
of any of the parties. The commissioners so understood.
Counsel for Oklahoma were not- remiss in the matter.
Shortly after the two commissioners were selected, counsel for that State, including the Attorney General, requested that a third commissioner be selected, and the
request was denied.
The State of Oklahoma of course-has a legal interest
in the location, of the boundary and a right to except to
the report, for her territorial jurisdiction is involved.
"Herexceptions are on two grounds. The first is, that the
commissioners have not given proper effect to'the sixth
paragraph of the decree, 261 .U. S. 340, which,"with the
opinion on which it was based, 260 U. S.606, was to be
their guide. -A right understanding of that paragraph
requires that iAbe read with the fifth and seventh. The
three are as follows:
"5. The south, bank of the river is the water-washed
-and relatively permanent elevation'or acclivity, com_monlyc4lled a cut bank, along the southerly side of the
river which separates its bed from the adjacent'upland,
whether valley or hill, and usually serves to confine the
waters within the bed and to preserve the course of the
river.
"6. The boundary between the two States is on and
along that bank at the mean level attained by the waters

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
493

Opinion of the Court.

of the river when they reach and wash the bank without
overflowing it.
"7. At exceptional places where there is no well defined cut bank, but only a gradual incline from the sand
bed of the river to the upland, the boundary is a line over
such incline conforming to the mean level of the waters
when at other places in that vicinity they reach and wash
the cut bank without overflowing it."
To sustain the exception, the 8tate relies entirely on
the introductory part of the report where, after setting
forth the three paragraphs just quoted, the commissioners
say:

"The foregoing specifications applied in the light of
the opinion, admit of, and require the exercise of practical judgment in determining the line intended; but
certain fundamentals, such as the following, obviously
must form the final basis for the exact location of the
line.
I
The boundary line is a gradient of the flowing water
in the river. It is located midway betweefi the lower
level of the flowing water that just xeaches the cut bank,
and the higher level of it that just does 'not overtop the
cut bank. The physical top of the cut bank being very
uneven in profile, cannot be a -datum for locating the
boundary line,.but a gradient along the bank must be
used for that purpose. The highest point on this gradient
must not be higher than the lowest acceptable point on.
the bank in that vicinity. The boundary line has been
determined accordingly."
We find nothing in what was thus said which indicateg that the commissioners misapprehended the decree
or failed to give proper effect to it; and after examining
their report and the accompanying maips we think the
decree was rightly construed and given full effect.: The
gradients used as representing the ordinary high and mean
levels of the waters, when washing but not overflowing

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

the bank, were not unbroken lines arbitrarily projected'
from one end of the Big Bend Area to the other, but
were broken lines adjusted to prevailing levels in rela-

tively.short sections. That course was both reasonable
and practical. Within the sixteen miles along that area
the river varies in width from: 2200 feet to 6000 feet.
Naturally the waters when entering the narrower sections
choke and attain. higher levels, and when entering the
broader sections spread out and fall to lower levels.
There is nothing in the decree to prevent a reasonable and
.practical solution of the problem incident to these varying water levels. And so of the problem incident to the
irregularities in the elevation of the bank. The State,
althohgh excepting to the solution adopted by the commissioners, does not attempt to point out a better one.
In our opinion the exception is not tenable.
The second exception is that the commissioners regarde.d An extensive addition, to the south bank as an
accretion caused by nitural prpcesses, whereas it was
. caused by an artificial structure plac~ed in the river by.
the receiver and should have been disregarded. The facts
relating to this addition to the bank, as shown by the
record in this cause, various photographic exhibits pro:
duced in evidence on former hearings, and the maps ac.companying the report of the commissioners. are as
follows:
In 1920, when the receiver took possession; a definite
channel and active current were near the south bank,
Four oil wells had been drilled, or were in process of
drilling, in the river bed close to that bank. A short
wing dam had been extended into the river above the
wells. The receiver made a change in the wing dam and
extended it down stream in front of and near the wells.
Winds in dry weather and the water during rises in the
river commenced to deposit sand and other material behind the d am and about the wells. But quite inde-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
493

Opinion of the Court.

pendently of the dam the river shortly thereafter 'washed
away a large section of the opposite bank on the north
and shifted its principal channel to that side. The channel on the south side soon filled with sand. The rjver"
continued gradually to'erode the north bank, and at the
same time there was a gradual but slower accretion to the
south bank. In this way the river moved.northward, the
north bank being cut away as much as 1400 feet froni
where it was in 1920 and an accretion from 60 to 80 feet
in width being added to the south bank bf that period.
The change.is apparent.when. Map Exhibit No. 26 produced by the United States and Oklahoma on the principal hearig in this case is compared with the maps
accompanying the commissioners' report. The 60 or 80
feet of accretion has come to b6 of the same elevation as
the former bank, has.similar vegetation on it where oil
or oil operations have not been. in the way, afid otherwise appears to be stable land. The pro'ess of accretion
is still active and now the new formation sloies, for 200
feet beyond -the stable accretion, into the river bed and
has the aplearance of a sandy shore. The commissioners regarded the south bank as-carried to the outer line
of the 80 or 80 feet, and located the boundary accord-:
ingly. Their location was based- on the 9ituation eiisting December 31, i923.
-

On. the -facts.diiclosed, we.

-hink

the commissioners

were right. Thfe .boufidary between the two States is
n6t an unswerving line, but a river bank; -and where
through the natural and gradual processes -of erosion or
accretion the bank is changed the boundary follows the
change. We so said in the opin.ion and decfee which
were to guide the commidsioners. The*wing dam was
at most a minor .factor in producing the accretion and
does not take the change out of the general rule. County
'of St. Clair v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46.' We accbrdingly
overrule the exception.

., 500

OCTOBER-TERM, 1923.
Decree.

265 U.S.

Both reports will be -approved and a decree° will be
entered.giving effect to the boundary along the Big Bend
Area as run, surveyed and-marked by the'commissioners.
STATE OF OI)LAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED- STATES, INTERVENER.'
IN EQITY.

No. 1b, Origin.
DECREE RET.ATING TO STATE BOUNDARY, ENTERED JUNE

.'9, 1924.

1 ecree:

(1) reciting the report of. the cmonisiners heretofore

appointed showing that they have run, located and marked the
* boundary in question, along. thie Big Bend Ared of Red River;
(2) oVerrulihg'protests and exceptiolis and confirming the rep6rt; "(3y adjudging- that the line delineated in the report and

* on maps Acconipanying it be established and declared to be the
true boundary between Texas and .Oklahoma along the part of
-Med River designat@d. in the report subject to future changes by
erosion and accretion; and (4) directing that copies of this decree

and of the said maps be transmitted to the Chief Magistrates of
the two States.

ON consideration of the, report bf the commissioners,
heretofore salected to run,'locate and 'mark portions of
*the b6undary between the.States of Texas and Ofliahoma
•aloig the south baik of the Red River, shiowing that'they
have run, located and marked" the' portion of such
boundary along theBig'Ben d Area, such report being as
folows:
"To th&Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the
Supreme' Court of the United States:
"As commissioners designated in the.decree of March
12, 1923, in the abo-e entitled cause, we have run, located
and marked upon the groimd the boundary-between the:

