.438..

.

OCTOBER-TERM, 1923. •
Counsel-forarties

265U.S

the order -does not violate any of its constitutional rights.
* ehiave'no &vasioi to-consider -anyof the other groimds
irgetd in its support,.
Reversed.'
UNI!TD. 'STATES v. NINT-FEVE BARRELS,
MORE- OR LESS, ALLEGED APPLE CIDER
VINEGAR, DOUGLAS PACKIG COMPANY,1
CETIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
*"SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 559. Argued April 101, 1924.-Decided Jun 2, 1924.
1:.
The purpose of.the Food and DrugnAct inforbidding misbranding

is to prevent the use of misleading statements a well as those,
which are false. .P. 442.
."
2.-Vinegar made from dried apples -by .ddding water equivalent to
that rem~oved in the drying and fermehting the resulting solutidn,
evien though it be similar to vrinegar produced directly ffom fresh

apple cider and- equalLy wholesome, is not" the same thing; and a
* label describing' it as "apple cider vinegar made from selected
apples' is misleading to the public, and a misbranding within the
meaning of the Food and'Dfrigs Act. P. 443.
289 Fed. 181, reversed.
CERTIORAI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals. which reversed a judgment of the District Court
-c6ndemning divers barrels of irinegar-under the Food and
Drugs Act.'

, Mr. 3. A. FdwLer, Special Assistant to the Attorney
Genera, with whom Mr. Solictor General Beck was on
-the brief, for the United States.
"
Mr.*L.C. Spieth, with whom Mr. John G. White and"
Mr.A. V.-Cannon were on the brief, for iespondent.
.ri. Judson Harmon, by leave of Court, filei a brief
as amicu curiae.

•

U. S. v. 95-BARRELS OF VINEGAR.
488

439

-Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Win. W. Armstrong, by leave of Court filed a brief
as amicus -curiae.
MR. Jusipi BuTLa delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case arises under the Food ani- Drugs -Act of June
30, 1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat.. 768. The United States filed
informaiion in the District Court for the North4rn District of Ohio, Eastern Division, .for the condemnation oft
95 barrels of vinegar. Every. barrel seized was labeled:".
. "Douglas Packing Company
. .
Excelsior Bra-nd Apple Cider Vinegar made
from Selected Apbles
Reduced to 4 Percentum
*
RoiJhester, N. Y."
The information alleged that the vinegar Was adulterated, in violation of § 7 of the act. ,It also alleged
that the vinegar was made from dried or -evaporated
apples, and was misbranded i violation of § 8, in that
the statements on the label were false and misleading,
and in' that it was an imitation of .and offered for sale
under the distinctive name of another article, namely
;
apple cider vinegar.
-The Douglas Packing Company.appeared as claimant,"
and by its answer admitted that thevinega± was labeled
as. alleged, .and that evaporated apples had been uded in
its manufacture. It averred that nevertheless it was pure
cider vinegar and denied adulteration and misbranding.
A. jury was waived;,and the case *as submitted. on the
'pleadings and an. agreed stat,.meht of facts. The court
found that the charge"of adulteration was not 'siistained,
but held. that the- vinegar was misbranded.- Claimant
appealed, and the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the
judgment. 289 Fed. 181. . Certiorari .ws,allowed. 263
U. S. 695.

The question for decision, is whether the 'finegar-was
misbranded.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court. .

265 U. S.

The substance of the agreed. statement of facts may be
set forth briefly. Claimant is engaged in thq manufacture
of food* prbducts -from evaporated and unevaporated
apples. During the apple season, from about September
25 to Decenber 15, it makes apple cider and apple-cider"
vinegar from fresh or unevaporated apples. During the
balance of Ihe year, it makes products which it designates
as "apple cider" and "apple cider vinegar" from evaporated apples. The nost approvred prdcess for dehydrating
apples is used, and,: in applying it, small quantities of sulphur fumes are employed to preventrot, fermentation, auid
consequent discoloration.

The principal result of dehy-

dration is the removal of about 80 p'r cent. of the water.
Whether, and to what extent, any other constituents of
the apple are removed is not beyond cohtroversy; in the
pieseht state of chemical science, no accepted test or
method of analysis is provided for th ..making of such
-determination. Only mature fruit,*free from rot and
ferment,- can be used economically and advantageously.
In rnanufacturing,. claimant places in a re6epticle a
quantity of.evaporated apples to which an amount of
pure water substantially equivalent to that removed-in
the evaporating process has been added. A heavy weight
is placed on top of the apples and a. stream of water is
-introduced at the top of the receptacle through a pipe
and-is applied, until the liquid, released through a vent
at the bottom, has carri'ed'off in tolutioh such - of the
constituents of the eva'orated apples as are soluble in
cold wat{r and ifseful in the manufacture of viegar.
Such liquid, which is substantially 'equivalent in quantity
to that which would have beent obtained had imevapo-"
:jated .apples been.used, carries a: small and entirely harm. less-quantity of iulphur dioxide, which is removed'during
the -process of fining and filtration by the addition of"
-biuin carboiiate or some other proper" chemical agent.
!The liquidjs the.a: subjected. to alcoholic and subsequent

U. S. v. 95 BARRELS OF VNEGAR.
438

Opinion of the Court.

..

acetic fermentation in the same manner as. that folldwed
by the manufacturer of apple cider vinegar made from
the liquid content of unevaporat.ed apples. Claimant
I employs the same receptacles, equipmnent and process of'
manufacturing for evaporated as for unevapo.rated apples,
except that in the case of evaporated' apples, pure water
is added as above described, and in the process of fining
and filtration, an additional chemical is used to precipitate
any sulphur compounds present and resulting from dehydration.
The resulting . liquid, upon chemical analysis, gives'
results similar to those obtained froin an anilysis of apple
cider made from unevaporated apples, except that it contains a trace of barium incident to the process of manufacture. Vinegar so made is similar in taste and in composition to the vinegar made from unevaporated apjples,
except that the vinegar made from evaporated apples
contains a trace of barium incident 'to the process of "
manufacture. There is no claim by libellant that this
trace of barium renders it deleterious or injurious to
heilth. It was conceded that .the vinegar involved in
these proceedings was vinegar made from dried or evaporated apples by substantially the process above described.
There. is no claim by thd-libellant t4t the vinegar was
inferior to that made from fresh or unevaporated ajples.
Since 1906, claimant "hassold throughout the United
States its product-manufactured from unevaporated 'as
well as from -evaporated apples .as "apple cider and.
."apple cider vinegar", selling its vinegar under .the brand
above quoted, or under the brand "Sun Bright'Brand>"
apple cider vinegar made from" selected, apples". Its
outut of vinegar is about 100,000 barrels a.year. Before
and since the passage of the Food and Drugs Act, vinegar
in large quan.tities, and to 'a certain extent a beverage,.*
made from evaporated apples, were sold in various parts
of the United States as." apple cider vinegar" and "apple"

6 CTOBER TERM, -1923.
265 U.S.

Opinionof the Couf.

cider," respectively, by many'
ufatuiers. Claimant,*
ik manufact tring and "selling such products so labeled,
acted in gbo faith.. The Department of Agrculture-has
never sanctioned t liis labeling, and its attitude with reference. thereto is evidenced by the definition of "apple
cider vinegar" sjet forth in Circulars 13, 17, 19 and 136,
anFdood Inspection Decision 140. T It is stipulated that
th. juie of-unevaporated aples when subjected .to alcoholic and. subsequent acetous fernientation is entitled to•
the name ' apple cider vijiegar.""
-edtion 6. of theact provides .that,"
The term
'rfod'-as.used herein, shall include all articles used for
f bdj drink, confectionery, or condiment by nan or other
aim0as, whether simple, mixed, or compound." Section
.8proyides, " That.the term .misbranded2, as used herein,
shall -..pply t6 all ...
aticles of food, or articles
wgLh nter into the compbsition. of food,- tie package
oWbe1. -of.-hicti shall beat any statement, design, or
.-d 'ie-regardingsuch article, or the "ingredients or sulbit ces contained Iherein which shall be false or mislead-"
ing in.y.particular, ...
That for the purposes 'of
tis .A.r
artice shall also 'be -deem6d" to be mis*

Thanded:
..
In the case of food: First. IfIt be an'
&inittion of or offered for. sale under the disfinative name..
of.kioither article: :Second." Ifit-be labeled 6r branded,
atb'eceive or 'mislead the purchaser,
,Fpiiith. If the' package containing it or its label ifall
•bew..any "sftement, design, or device _xegarding the
ipgr dients or he substances contained therein, which
::sttemb t, design, or device shall be false or mieading

*.n.anyparticular.

,.--

'.-

..

The" statute is- 1ain. and. direct.. Its :comprehensive
n'-condemverystateinent, desigii and device'whic.
''The definition" refirred to is, ,.inegar, cider vin.gar, apple"

vinegarjs the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous
fermbtaioiis of thejuice Uf apples....

u.

43s

s.

95- BA

"

•° 6P-, oVI

GA

.

44s

Opinion of -the-CoUrt."

may mislead or-deceive. -Deceptioiimayresult from th6
* usb of statements not.technically fa!is or -which may be

literally true. The a in.of the stat ite is to jrevent that

'resulting froin indirection and imbigufit"y

vell as.from

statements wlich are false. Itbs not Aifcult to'choose
statements, designs and devices wl~iih.will not deceive.
* Those which * r, ambiguous and liable to-mislead shouldbe read favorably I6 the accomplishmnt o.f the purpose
*of the act. The staute..applies to food, an4 the ingtedianti and substances contained. therein. It was enacted
*-to enable purchasers to buy f66d for *hat if really is.
U ited States v. &hider, 246-U. S. 5i9, 522; United States
v. Lexiogton Mill (Go., 232 U. S. 399, 409; -,nited StWtes
v. Antikavinia &o.,.231 U. S. .54, 665.
The vinegar made .from dried apples was hot the saxne
as that which would'have been.produiced fromn'the appls
without dehydratin. jThe. dehydration took f&om them'
about 80per cent, of their Water content,-an amount in
excess of. two-thirds of:the. Iqtal"6f .lefi constituent eLe- .
ments: The substance removed, wAs -a part of -their juicefrom which cider*and vinegar would ifgve -been.made if-the apples.had been 'used in -their natural state. 'that
element was.not replaced. The substanmce-etact.ed from
dried apples is'different -froni the pressel out juice of
* apples. Samiles of cider fermented and -imferm'ented
made from fresh ind evaporated apples;'aiid viegar.,nade
*fiomboth kinds-of cider were submitted to andexained.
by the District Jidge who tried'the -cas.':He foind tait
there were slight differences ih apjeaibnce and taste but
that all had the ,pjpearance and taste of cider 'and-vinegar#.
While the vinegar in question. made from dried apples
was like ore similar to that which would liave been produced by the use of fresh apples, it was*not the identical
product. .The added' water, constituting an .. lement
amounting to more than one-half 'of the total of. al in-

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

gredients of the vinegar, never was a constituent element
or part of the apples. The use of dried apples necessarily
results in a different product.
If an article is not the identical thing that the brand
indicates it to be, it is misbranded. The vinegar in question was not the identical thing that the statement
"Excelsior Brand Apple 'Cider Vinegar made from
selected apples", indicated it to be. These words are to
be considered in view of the admitted facts and others
of which the court .may take judicial notice. The words
"Excelsior Brand", calculated to give the impression of
superiority, may be put to one side as not liable to
mislead. But the words, "apple cider vinegar made frdm
selected apples" are misleading. .Apple cider vinegar is
made from .apple cider. Cider is the expressed juice of
apples and is so popularly and generally known. See
Eureka.Vinegai Co. v. Gazette PrintingCo., 35 Fed. 570;
"Hildic Apple'Juice Co. v. Wifliams, 269 Fed. 184; Monroe
CiderVinegar & Fruit Co.v. Riordan, 280 Fed. 624, 626;.
Sterling-Cider Co. v..Casey, 285 Fed. 885; affirmed 294
Fed. 426.. It was stipulated that the juice of unevaporated, apples when subjected to alcoholic and subsequent
acetous fermentation is entitled to the name "apple cider
vinegar". The vinegar in question was not the same as
if made from apples without dehydration.. The name
"apple cider vinegar" included in the brand did not
represent the article to. be what it really was; and, in
effect, did represent it to be what it was not,--vinegar
made from fresh or unevaporated apples. The words
""made.from selected apples" indicate that the apples
'used were chosen with special regaid to their fitness for
the purpose of making apple cider vinegar. They give
no hint that the vinegar was made from dried apples, or
that the largei! part of the moisture content of the apples
was Plrh na ,rI.nd wvt.nr mib'tituted therefor. As Used

THOMSON CO. v. FORD MOTOR CO.
438

445

Statement of the Case.

on the label, they aid the misrepresentation made by the
words "apple cider vinegar ".
The misrepresentation was in respect of the vinegar
itself, and did not relate to the method of production
merely.* When considered independently of the product,
the method of manufacture is not material. The act
requires no disclosure concerning it. And it makes no
difference whether vinegar.made from dried apples is or
is not 'inferior to apple cider vinegar.
*Thelabel was misleading as fo the vinegar, its substance
and ingredients. The facts admitted sustain the tharge
of misbranding.
Judgment reversed.
THOMSON SPOT WELDER COMPANY v. FORD
.
MOTOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO TE

CIRCUIT COURT OF
SIXV'

PEALS FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

No. 120. Argued December 5, 1923.-Decided June 2, 1924.
1. The question whether an improvement in the arts involved
invention or only mechanical skill, is a question of fact. P. 446.
2. Thbj rule in this Court to follow concurrent findings of fact made

by the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals unies
clear error is shown, should not be strictly applied in a case
brought here by certiorari to settle a conflict between decisions of
two circuit courts of appeals concerning the validity of a patent
for an invention. Id.

3. Patent No. 1,046,066 issued December 3, 1912, to Thomson Electric
Welding Company, assignee of Harmatta, for improvements .in

electric welding,- viz., for the process known as "spot welding",
whereby sheets or plates of metal are welded together in spots, in
lieu of riveting;--is void for want of patentable invention. P. 448..
281 Fed. 680, affirmed.
CmTIOm tb a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which held void
a patent and dismissed a bill for infringement.

