242

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

WEISS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
STEARN.
WEISS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
WHITE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 262 and 263. Argued Apiil 30, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
Pursuant to an agreement, the stockholders of an Ohio corporation
deposited with a trustee their certificates 'for all its capital stock
($5,000,000), and other parties deposited $7,500,000; the depositors
organize4 a new Ohio corporation with authorized capital stock of
$25,000,000, and powers like those of the old corporation; the new
corlioration took over the property, assets and business of the
old one, assuming its -contracts and liabilities, and delivering certificates for all its stock to the trustee, in payment, and carried on
the business under.the old management; the old corporation was
dissolved; the trustee delivered half of the new stock and the whole
$7,500,000 to the old stockholders pro rata, and the other half of
*the new stock to the other depositaries; so that each owner of old
stock received cash, and also shares of new stock representing an
interest in the corporhte jroperty and business half as large as he
had before. Held:
(1) That the new sock received by the old stockholders, unlke the
* money, was not the proceeds of. a sale but represented part of the
same capital investment as their old shares, without any segregated
gain taxable as incoine under the Revenue Act of 1916. P. 252.
(2) The transaction amounted to a financial reorganization under
which each stockholder retained half his interest and disposed of the
remainder. P. 254..
(3) Questions of taxation must. be determined by viewing what was
actually done rather than the declared purpose of the participants.
Id.
(4) When applying the Sixteenth Amendment and income tax laws
enacted under. it, the courts must regard matters of slubstance and
not of mere form. Id.
285 Fed. 689, affirmed.

WEISS v. STEAN.
242

Argument for Petitioner.

CEURTi
to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming judgments recovered by the respondents
in the District Court in their actions to recover money
paid under protest as income taxes.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney

General, with whom Mr. Solibcor General Beck was on

the brief, for petitioner.
I. The transaction between the respondents and Eastman, Dillon & Company was in fact and legal effect a sale
by.the respondents of all their stock in the National Acme
Manufacturing Cbmpany for $300 a share, plyable $150
in cash and $150 in securities of another corporation.
The transaction, of course, must be considered in the
light of the agreement. That agreement -was evidently
drawn with care, is free from ambiguity, and expresses
clearly a definite intent. The "vendors" agree to and
will sell all theii shares, and the "purchasers" agree to
and will purchase the same from them, as well as any and
all shares the holders of which deposit them with the
depositary named, for the price of $300 per share, payable
one-half in cash and one-half in securitiei "as hereinafter
set forth." The contract was made upon the express
condition that it should not become operative unless at
least 80 per cent. of the entire outstanding stock should
be deposited "for sale." Of course it is apparent that the
purpose of Eastman, Dillon & Company, the purchasers,
was to become the owners bf a half interest in a very
profitable business, and we all know that one who holds
50 per cent. of the stock of a corporation practically controls it, where the other half is held'by numerous stockholders. The other terms of the agreement show that the
purchasers were not buying one-half of the stockholders'
stock. They were purchasing the compan for the purpose of reorganizimg it and placing themselves in control;

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

265 U. S.

so the agreement provides that they shall have an opportunity to investigate the representations made by the
vendors with respect to the earnings of the company and
the title to the company's property, and, if that examination was unsatisfactory, the purchasers would not be
required to carry out the agreement.
The vendors, owning 14,000 shares out of a total issue
of 50,000 shares, were to deposit their stock with the. depositary, as were all other stockholders who wished to
take advantage of the agreement. The stock, as is usual
in such transactions, was to be endorsed in blank for transfer, so as to constitute the vendees attorneys in fact and
proxies, which would enable them, of course, to vote the
stock as it became necessary to transfer the assets to the
new company and dissolve the old one. 'The use of the
words "vendors" and "purchasers" throughout the
agreement shows that these words were used in no other
sense than the usual one of such language in similar agreements. If less than the entire. amount of the capital stock
of the National Acme Manufacturing Company was deposited, the depositary was to retain ten shares of stock of
the new coiiapany and $150 in cash on account of each
share not deposited until "adjustment for the purchase of
such nondeposited stock under the laws of Ohio, or otherwise, can be had." The "purchasers" were to make whatever adjustment might be necessary to acquire such nondeposited stock and to that end might use the shares of
stock and money retained by the depositary, and, when
the nondeposited stock had been acquired "by the purchasers," the depositary was to turn over to the purchasers any shares or money then remaining in its hands, provided, however, that "the vendors, if they desired, should
have the right to proceed "in the purchase of such nondeposited stock to the extent and upon the terms which
may be deemed equitable" by two gentlemen named, and
with the further provision that in lieu of their portion of

WEISS v. STEARN.
242

Argument for Petitioner."

the retained stock the purchasers might substitute and
deposit such other collateral as might be approved by the
two gentlemen. The concluding paragraph of the agreement is also significant, providing for modifications or
additions to be made by those gentlemen but denying
them power to modify in regard to "prices of the stock
sold or time of payment therefor."
II. The excess of both the cash and the vaue j- die
National Acme Company's stock, received by the respondents, over the value of the National Acme Manufacturing
Company's stock as of March 1, 1913, or, in the case of
stock purchased since that date, iti cost, was income for
the year 1916.
The transaction comes clearly within'the language of
the act, taxing profits derived from "sales or dealings in
property."
The 'receipt of property may as well constitute income
to the taxpayer as the receipt of money. Peabody v.
Eisner, 247 U. S. 347; Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S.
189; United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156. '
Before the trnsaction, the plaintiffs' stock reflected
their orighial capital investments plus the accretions
which had resulted through the old company's business
activities and constituted its surplus-a surplus in which
they as individual stockholders had no property interest
except as it increased the value of their capital. When,
however, they sold that stock for its par value and received in addition cash and securities in another corporation, it is dlear that they received assets of exchangeable
aiid actual value severed from their capital interests in the
old company. United States v. Phellis, supra; Rockefeller v. United States, 257 U. S. 176; Cullinan, v. Walker,
262 U. S. 134; Eisner v. Macomber, supra. When the
exchange had been completed, each stockholder had realized -his entire investment and profit in the old company,
even though he immediately put part of it into a new
venture.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent in No. 262.

265 U. S.

III. The stock received by respondents was, in fact and
legal effect, different property from the Company stock
which they disposed of.
The ownership by one corporation of the stock of
another corporation, or the ownership by the stockholders
of one corporation of the stock of another corporation,
does not destroy the distinct.legal entity of the two corporations. Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co., 115 U. S. 587; Peterson v. Chicago, etc. By. Co.,
205 U. S.364.
In cases involving taxation, the courts have consistently
refused to disregard the principle of corporate entity.
Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; Osgood v. Tax Commissioner, 235 Mass. 88; Stone v. Tax Commissioner, 235
Mass. 93; United States v. Phellis, 257 U. S. 156.
All the considerations, except that of incorporation
under the laws 6f different States, mentioned by the Court
in the Phellis Case as supp±'ting the corporate entities
of the corporations there in question, are present here.
Furthermore, while in the Phelis.Case the stockholders
of the two corporations were identical, in the case at bar
the stockholders of the National Acme Manufacturing
Company and the Naticnal Acme Company were not
identical.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330, and Gulf
Oil Corporation v. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71, are clearly
distinguishable. See Peabody v. Eisner, supra, p. 349;
Lynch v. Fornby, 247 U. S. 339, 346.
The fact that the respondents acquired no increase in
aggregate wealth through the sle or exchange of their
stock is not material in determining whether they experienced a realization of profits constituting income.
United States v. Phellis,supra, p. 171.
Mr. Charles P. Hine, with whom Mr. Amos Burt
Thompson was on the brief, for respondent in No. 262.

WEISS v. STEARN.
242

Argument for Respondent in No. 262.

I. The contract was not for the sale of the stock to
Eastman, Dillon & Company at 0300 per share, but was
for the sale of a, half interest at $150, and the substitution
for the other half interest of stock in which Eastman,
Dillon & Company never had any interest, legal or.
equitable. The new stock represented a continuation of
the same corporate enterprise and the entire., equitable
interest in the stock which plaintiff received was at all
times owned by him.
The fact that one clause of the contract. pursuant to
which the exchange of the stbck was made, recited that
stockholders in.
the old company agree to sell their stock
"for $300 per share, payable one-half in cash and onehalf in securities, as hereinafter set forth," did not make
the transaction the equivalent of a sale for cash.
. The contract was of a dual nature, being in part a
contract for the sale of a half interest to Eastman, Dillon
& Company, and in part a reorganization agreement between the old stockholders and Eastman, Dillon & Company, providing for the creation by the vendors and
purchasers of a new company to stand in the place of the
old, and for the distribution by the trustee of the stock
of the new company to the old stockholders and. to Eastman, Dillon & Company, in proportion to their respective
interests, as fixed by the trust. agreement. The iransaction as carried out resulted in the sale of such half
interest and the continuance of the same business.
Il. Plaintiff realized no income from the receipt of
stock in the National Acme Company, since his capital
interest in the same single corporate enterprise continued
without any change in the nature of his investment.
Eisner v.-Macombe*r 252 U. S. 206; United States v.
Phellis, 257 U. S. 156.
1II. The same result could have been attained by a
process of internal reorganization, and if this manner of
procedure had been adopted, no taxable income would
have resulted. See Cullinanv. Walker, 262 U.S. 134, 137.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent in No. 263.

265 U. S.

IV. The mere difference in corporate entity between
the National Acme Manufacturing Company and the
National Acme Company is not a sufficient basis for
holding that income was realized by the exchange of one
stock for -the other. Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247
U. S. 330.
We must assume that it was the purpose of Congress
to refrain from taxing as income derived from a transaction the mere increase in capital value of an investment which after such transaction remains in truth and in
substance the same investment as before.
After Eastman, Dillon & Company acquired a one-half
interest in the stock of the National Acme Manufacturing
company by depositing the cash consideration therefor,
they and the other stockholders of the National Acme
Manufacturing Company were to unite in forming a new
corporation and in causing the old company to transfer its assets to the new. The new company was therefore a mere agency of the stockholders of the old company
and subject in all things to their proper direction and
control. The principle of Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe,
supra, is therefore directly applicable. Gulf Oil Corporation v. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71.
In the present case plaintiff merely received different
certificates of stock which represented exactly the same
proportionate interest in a corporation having the same
stockholders, the same assets, powerd, purposes and management as the original company.
V. The rule of construction announced in previous
decisions prevents a holding that income was realized by
the transaction in the case at bar. Gould v. GIould, 245
U. S. i51.
Mr. Joh- G. White, with whom .Xfr. A. V. Cannon and
Mr. L. C. Spieth were on the brief, for respondent in
No. 263.

WEISS v. STEARN.
242

Argument for Respondent in No. 263.

Looking through all the forms and machinery, the real.
transaction is this: The old stockholders sold half their
stock to Eastman, Dillon & Company for $7,500,000, and
deposited their stock, transferred in blank, with the depositary, subject to this agreement. Thereby Eastman,
Dillon & Company became owners of half the stock of
the Manufacturing Company and the old stockholders
remained the owners of the other half of the stock of the
Manufacturing Company. Then the two sets together,
thus constituting the whole body of the stockholders of
the Manufacturing Company, organized the new company, and the two sets fogether constituting the whole
body of stockholders of the old company as such, through
the corporate action agreed to be taken by the agreement,
transferred all its assets to the new c6mpany for all the
stock of the new company and its assumption of all the
debts of the old company. The stockholders of the old
company having thus become the owners of all the stock
of the new company, and it being part of the agreement
that this stock shall be divided ratably among the stockholders of the old company,.half of this stock went to
Eastman, Dillon & Company, or their nominees, they
having become the owners of half of the stock of the old
company. Half of it, of course, went to the old stockholders of the old company. This being the nature of
the transaction, Eastman, Dillon & Company, for their
half of the stock of the old company, got half of the stock
of the aew company or five new shares for one old, and
the old stockholders, for each share of the half of the
stock of the old company which they owned, after selling
the other.half to Eastman, Dillon & Company, got five
shares of the new company, the new company having
exactly the same powers and the same purposes as the
old company, and exactly the same assets and the same
liabilities. As a consequence, by this part of the transacfinu there was neither gain nor loss. Each stockholder

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondent in No. 263.

265 U. S.

simply had a certificate for a larger number of shares than
he had before.
There has been no segregation of any of the.assets of
either the old company or the new company, no stock
issued against any part of the assets of the old company
or the new company;.but the entire assets of the old company, without addition or.diminution, which before was
the property of all the stockholders of the old company,
became the property of all the stockholders of the new
company, and represented by all its stock.
Treating it as a.sale to Eastman, Dillon & Company of
the entire stock for $7,500,000 of cash and $12,500,000 of
stock of the new company, the only profit obtained was
from the payment of the cash, for half the stock of the
new company was of precisely the same value as half the
stock of the old company, represented exactly the same
assets, the sam6 liabilities, devoted.to the same purposes
as before, and hence, so far as the old stock was paid for
by the new stock, no profit was made, no gain received,
and hence no income.
Taking either line of reasoning,-there was no segregation as to the old stockholders of one-half of their stock
of any part of the assets, which all still remained in the
corporation, .devoted to the same uses and purposes as
before, subject to corpbrate control, without any power
on the part of the owners. of the stock to segregate
any part thereef without corporite action. Eisner v.
Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; Townev. Eisner,245 U. S. 418;
United States v. Alpha. Portland Cement (o., 242 Fed.
978; s. c. 257 Fed. 432; 261 Fed. 339; Peabody v. Eisner,
247 U. S. 347; Lynchv. Hornby, 247 U. S. 339; Southern.
Padfio Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 830; Gulf Oil Corporation
v. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71.
.Where there are doubts in the construction of a tax
law, they should be resolved in favor of the taxpayer and
against the Government. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151;

WEISS v. STEARN.
242

Opinion of the Court.

Crocker v. Malley, 249 U. S. 223. See further Southern
Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 330; Gulf Oil Corporation
v. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71; ;United States v. Mellon, 279
Fed. 910; s. c. 281 Fed. 645.
MR. JUSTICE MR-YNoLDs delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondents brought separate actions to recover money
which they alleged petitioner unlawfully demanded of
them as income tax. The question for our -decision is
"this: Did they, by the transactions hereinafter detailed,
dispose with profit of all or, as they miintain, of only
half their interests in the National Acme Manufacturing
Company, within the income provisions, Revenue Act of
1916 (c. 463, 39 Stat. 756,757). Both courts below upheld
their claims and gave judgments for appropriate refunds.
Under a definite written agreement the following things
were done(A) Respondents and other owners delivered duly endorsed certificates representing the entire capital stock
($5,000,000) of the National Acme Manufacturing Company, incorporated under laws of Ohio-the old corporation-to The Cleveland Trust Company, as depositary.
Messrs. Eastman, Dillon & Company deposited $7,500,000
with the same Trust Company. Representatives of' both
classes of depositors thereupon incorporated in Ohio the
National Acife Company-the new corporation-with
$25,00g,000 authorized capital stockand powers similar to
those of the old corporation. Pursuing the definite purpose for which it was organized, the new corporation
purchased and took over the entire property, assets and
business of the old one, assuming all outstanding contracts
•and liabilities, and in payment therefor issued to the Trust
Company its entire authorized capital stock. It continued to operate the acquired business under the former
management, and the old corporation. was dissolved.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

(B) The Trust Company delivered to Eastman, Dillon
& Company certificates for half the new stock--12,500,000. To the owners of the old stock-to each his pro rata
part-it delivered certificates representing the remaining
half, together with the $7,500,000 cash received from
Eastman, Dillon & Company. The owner of each $100
of old stock thus received $150 cash, also $250 of new
stock representing an interest in the property and business half as large as he had before. Prior to the specified
transactions his interest in the enterprise was 100/5,000,000; thereafter it became 250/25,000,000, or 50/5,000,000.
The Collector ruled that each old stockholder sold his
entire holding, and assessed respondent accordingly for
resulting profits. Adopting a different view, the courts
below held that he really sold half for cash and exchanged
the remainder, without gain, for the same proportionate
interest in the'transferred corporate assets and business.
We agree with the conclusion reached below. The
practical result of the things done was, a transfer of the
old assets and business, without increase or diminution or
material change of general purpose, to the. new corporation;, a disposal for cash by each stockholder of half his
interest therein; and an exchange of the remainder for
new stock representing the same proportionate interest M
the enterprise. Without doubt -every stockholder became liable for the tax upon any profits which he actually
realized by receiving the cash payment. If by'selling the
remainder he hereafter receives a segregated profit, that
also will be subject to taxation.
Petitioner -relies upon United States v. Phellis, 257
U. S. 156, and Rockefeller v. United States, id. 176; also
Cuilinan v. Walker, 262 U. S. 134, which followed them.
As the result of transactions disclosed in the Phellis and
Rockefeller Cases, certain corporate assets not exceeding
accumulated surplus were segregated and passed to individual stockholders. The value of the segregated thing

WEISS v. STEARN.
242

Opinion of the Court.

so received was held to constitute taxable income.
Cullinan's gain resulted from a dividend in liquidation
actually distributed in the stock of a holding company
incorporated under the laws of a foreign State, not organized for-the purpose of caiying on the old business, and
which held no title to the original assets.
Eisner v. Maomber, 252 U. S. 189, gave great consideration to the naure of income and stock dividends.
It pointed out that, within the meaning of the Sixteenth
Amendment, income from capital is gain severed therefrom and received by the taxpayer for his separate use;
that the interest 6f the stockholder is a capital ofie and
stock certificates but evidence of it; that for purposes of
taxation where a stock dividend is declared, the essential
and controlling fact is that the recipienftreceives nothing
out of the company's assets for his separate use and benefit. 'The conclusion was that, "having regard to the very
truth of the matter, to substance and not to form, he has
received nothing that answers the definition of income
within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment."
Applying the general principles of Eisnerv. Macomber,
it seems clear that if the National Acme Manufacturing
Company had increased its capital stock to $25,000,000
and then declared a stock dividend of four hundred per
cent., the stockholders would have received no gain-their
proportionate interest would have remained the same as
before. If upon the transfer of its entire property and
business for the purpose of reorganization and future conduct the old corporation had actually received the entire
issue of new stock and had then distributed this pro rata
among its stockholders, their ultimate rights in the enterprise would have continued substantially as before-the
capital assets would have remained unimpaired and nothing would have gone therefrom to any stockholder for his
separae benefit. The value of his holdings would not
have changed, and he would have retained the same essential rights in respect of the assets.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

We can not conclude that mere change for purposes of
reorganization in the technical ownership of.an enterprise,
under circumstances like those here disclosed, followed by
issuance of new certificates, constitutes gain separated
from the original capital interest. Something more is
necessary--something ivhich gives the stockholder a thing
really different, from what he theretofoe had. Towne v.
Eisner, 245 U. S. 418; Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247
U. S. 330; Gulf Oil Corporationv. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71.
The sale of part of the new stock and distribution of the
proceeds did not.affect the nature of the unsold portion;
when distributed this did not, in truth represent any gain.
Considering the entire arrangement we think it
amounted to a financial reorganization under which each
old stockholder retained half of his interest and disposed
of the remainder. Questions of taxation must be determined t y viewing what was actually done, rather than the
declared purpose of the participants; and when applying
theprovisions of the Sixteenth Amendment and income
laws enacted thereunder we must regard matters of substance and not mere form.
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE Hoiz.Es and MR. JUsTICE BRANDEIS dissent on the ground that the case falls within the rule declared in Cullinanv. Walker, 262 U. S. 134.

HIXON v. OAKES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE SECOND
APPELLATE DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No.420. Argued April 24, 1924.-Decided May 26,1924.
A city ordinance forbidding the filling of prescriptions calling for
more than eight ounces of alcoholic liquor, manifestly does not
infringe any right of the pharmacist granted by the Eighteenth

