HESiER v..UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court,

RESTER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO T mEDISTRICT COURnT OF Tim UNmED STATES FOR
TEH WESTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 243. Submitted April 2A,1924.-Decided May 5, 1924.
.1. In a prosecutio'n for concealing spirits, admission of testimony of
revenue officers as to finding moonshine whiskey in a broken jug and
'other vessels near the house where the defendant resided and as
to suspicious occurrences in that vicinity at the time of their visit,
Add not Violative of the Fourth or Fifth Amendments, even
though the witnesses held-no warrant and were trespassers on the

land, the matters attested being merely acts and disclosures of"
defendant and his associates outside the house. P.58.
2. The protection accorded by the Fburtfi Amendment to the people
in their "persons,'hQoues, papers, and effects," does iiot extend to
open fields. Id.
Affirmed.
ERROR to-a judgment of the District Court sentencing
the plaintiff in error who was convicted by a jury of
concealing distilled spirits, -in violation of Rev. Stats.,
ยง 3296.
Mr. Richard A. Ford for plaintiff in error. Mr. H. P.
Burbage was also on the-brief.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mrs. Mabel Walker
Wlllebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, for the United
States.
AI. Jusicr HoLmms delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The plaintiff in error, Hester, was convicted of concealing distilled spirits &c. under Rev. Stats., ยง 3296. The
case is brought here'directly from the District Court on
the single ground that by refusing to exclude* the testi-

mony of two witnesses and to direct a verdict for the
defendant, the plaintiff in error, the Court'violated his..-

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments of the
Constitution of the United States.
The witnesses whose testimony .is objected to were
revenue officers. In consequence of information they
went toward the house of Hester's. father, where the plaintiff in error lived, and as they approached saw one Henderson drive near to the house. They concealed themselves from fifty to one hundred yards away and saw
Hester come out and hand Henderson a quart bottle. An
alar was given. Hester went to a car standing near,
took a gallon jug from it and he and Henderson ran.
One of the officers pursued, and fired a pistol. Hester
dropped his jug, which broke but kept about a quart.of
its contents. Heiiderson threw away his bottle also.
The jug and bottle both contained what the officers, being
experts, recognized as moonshine whiskey, that is whiskey
illicitly distilled; said to be easily recognizable. The other
officer entered the house, but being told there was howhiskey there left it, but found outside a jar that had
been thrown out and broken and that also contained
whiskey. While the officers were there other cars stoppedat the house'but were spoken to by Hester's father and
drove off. The officers had no warrant for search or
arrest, and it is contended that this made their evidence
inadmissible, it being assumed, on the strength of the
pursuing officer's saying that he supposed they were on
Hester's iand, that such was the fact. It is obvious that
even if there had been a trespass, the above" testimony
was not obtained by an-illegal search or seizure. The
defendant's own acts, and-those of his associates, disclosed
the jug; the jar and the bottle-and there was no seizurein the sense of the law when the officers examined the
contents of each after it had been abandoned. This evideiiee was not obtained by the entry into the house and
it is immaterial to discuss that. The suggestion that the
defendant was compelled to give evidence against himself

L. & N. R. R. v. CENTRAL IRON CO.
Syllabus.'

57

doei not recuire an answer. The only shadow of a ground
for bringing up the case is drawn from the hypothesis
that. the examination of the vessels took place upon
Hester's father's land. As to that, it is enough to say
that, apart from the justification, the special protection

accorded by the Fourth Amendment to the people in their

"persons, houses, papers, and effects," is not extended to
the open fields. The distinction between the .latter and
the house is as old as the common law. 4 B1. Comm. 2.3,

225, 226.

ludgment affirmed.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CENTRAL IRON & -COAL COMPANY.
ERROR To THE CIRCUI

COURT OF -APPEAIJS FOR THE Fi.H
CIRCUIt.

No. 198. Argued February 19, 1924.--Decided lay 5, 1924.
1. No .contract of &carrier can reduce the amount of charges legally
.payable to it under its tariff for an interstate shipment, or release
from liability a shipper who has assumed their payment; nor can
any act or omission of the cArier (except the running of the statute
of Iimtatiqns) estop or preclude it from enforcing payment of the
full amoun.t by the person liable. P. 65.
2. But, in the absence of a governing tariff provision, delivery of the
goods for shipment does not-necessarily import an obligation of the
shipper to pay the freight charges, and the carrier and shipper are
free to contract as to when and by whom payment shall be made,
* subject to the'rulQ *against discrimination. P. 66..
3. Where bills of lading achnowledged receipt of g6ods" from the
shipper but provided'for delivery to the order of another as consgnee, were not signed by the shipper, and contaiied no express
agreement on his part -to pay or guaiantee payment of the freight
charges, and. there was evidence tha" the goods were sold and
shipped by the shipper to the consignee upon agreement between
then that the latter should pay those chargds, and were transferred
by the consignee with the bills.of lading to a third partt who-received delivery from the carrier, JZdd, that a fndin .that the"

