388

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

265 T.q.

GNERICH ET AL., COPARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER'THE FIRM NAME OF B. & S. DRUG
COMPANY v. RUTTER, AS -PROHIBITION DIRlECTOR IN AND FOR THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.APPEAL FROM THm CmCUIT COuRT OF APPEALS FORT
MNTH CIcuIT.

No. 79. Argued March 10, 1924.-Decided June 2, 1924.

1. The " Prohibition Commissioner" and "Prohibition Directors"
are no more than mere agents and subordinates of the Coninis-

sioner of Internal Revenue, provided for and designated -under
re-ulations adopted by him pursuant to the National Prohibition
:&ct. P. 391.
2. Pharmacists sued to restrain a locsi prohibition director from refusing them permits to buy liquors to be dispensed for nonbeverage purposes in excess of a limit fixed in their permit to .sell as
issued by the Prohibition Commi soner, the plaintiffs denying
the legality of the'restriction -even if authorized by regulations of
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Held, that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was a necessary party. Id.
3. A bill which is defective for want of a necessary party should, be
dismissed on that ground, and not upon the merits. P. 393.
277 Fed. 632, reversed.

"APPFAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affir med a decree of the District Court dismissing

a bill brought to restrain a "prohibition director" from
giving effect to a restriction contained in the. plaintiffs'
permit to sell intoxicating liquors.
Mr. Harf' G. McKannay, with whom Mr. Louis V.
Crowley was on the brief, for appellants.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue was not a
necessary party.

The ,.Prohibition Commissioner" is a creaturd of' the
regulations, published by the Commissioner-of. Intern'al
Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. Being a creature of the regulations, he had only

GNERICH V. RUTTER.
388

386

Opinion of the Court.

such powers as are specifically granted to him therein.
The law or'the regulations do ndt "grant that officer any
discretion to insert the restrictions in appellants' permit
of which we .complain. The regulations are the mode
and the measure of his power, and unless they authorize
him, in his official capacity, to determine the amount of
liquor that can lawfully be used and dispensed by the
appellants, then such an attempted limitation and prQhibition was his personal action, without official sanction
and as void as if it had been inserted in the permit as
a prank or a joke by a total stranger.
The Circuit Court of Appeals expressed in its opinion
the view that it is "the very purpose of this action to
control the action of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue."" This we submit is error, inasmuch as we are unable to attribute to that official responsibility for any
of the acts of which we complain, and we know of no
,conduct on his part that in any manner infringes upon our
rights, unless it be held that the acts. of the National
Prohibition Commissioner and the appellee are consistent with and authorized b -the language and provisions of the regulations published by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue.
Furthermore, assuming, as we contend, that -Congress
had no power to place in the National Prohibition Act
the restrictions and prohibitions set forth therein against
the practice of medicine and pharmacy, then the en-"
forcement of those restrictions can be enjoined as against
any public officer attempting to enforce them.
Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Mahom D. Kiefer were on the brief, for appellee.
i~m. JUsTiCE VAw D.v"nTR delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit for an injunction against the federal prohibition director for California restraining him from giv-

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court:

265 U.S.

ing effect to a particular restriction emb6died in a permit,
issued under' the National Prohibition Act, authorizing
the plaintiffs, who are licensed pharmacists conducting
a general drug business in San Fran'cisco, to use ind sell
-in such business intoxicating liquors.for other than beverage purposes. The District Court dismissed the bill
as not stating a cause of action, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the decree on the ground that the suit
could not be maintained without making the Commissioner of Internal Revenue a party defindant. 277 Fed.
632. The plaintiffs prosbcute this appeal.
The National Prbhibition Act, c. 85, Title I1, 41 Stat.
307, commits its administration to the C6mmissioner of
Internal Revenue; authorizes him to prescribe regulations for carrying out its provisions, and declares, in clause
7 of § 1, that any act authorized to be done by'the commissioner "may be performed by any assistant or agent
.designated by him for the purpose."
The*act directly* prohibits the manufacture, sale, etc.
of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, and further provides, in § 3, that liquor for nonbeverage purposes
may be manufactured, purchased, sold, etc., "but only
as herein provided," and, in § 6, that no one shall manufacture, sell, purchase, etc., any liquor "without first obtaining a permit from the commissioner so to do "; that
no permit shall be issued to anyone to sell at retail, unless
the selling is to be through a pharmacist designated in
the permit and licensed finder the state law to compound
and dispense medicine under a physician's prescription;
that every permit shall be "signed by the commissioner or
his- authorized agent" and shall "designate and limit
the acts that are permitted"; that the commissioner
"shall prescribe the form of all permits ", and that where
lie refuses a permit the applicant "may have a. review of
his decision before a court of equity."

GNERICH v. RUTTER.
388

Opinion of the Court.

The regulations prescribed provide for and designate a
general.agent of the Commissionef of Internal Revenue,
called a prohibition 'commissioner, who is authorized,
among other things, to issue and sign permits to sell
liquor at retail for medicinal purposes through licensed
pharmacists, and also a local agent in each State or district, called a prohibition director, who is authorized,
among other things, to issue and sign permits to purchase liquor to be used and sold under the permits last
mentioned. The regulations further bontain a provision
thai "Every permit will clearly'and specifically designate
and limit the acts that are permitted and the time when
and the place where such acts may be performed."
The permit held by the plaintiffs was issued and signed
by the. prohibition commissioner; and the restriction
therein of which the plaintiffs complain says, "This
permit is issued for 100 gallons of distilled spirits and 5
gallons of wine per quarterly period." The director
adhered to the restriction by refusing to give the plaintiffs
permits to purchase in excess of those quantities. The
plaintiffs allege that the restriction was put in the permit
without any lawful authority; that, if it be authorized by
the regulations, the latter are void, and that the director
by giving effect to it ie wrongfully subjecting the plaintiffs
to irreparable injury.
The act and the regulations make it plain that the
prohibition commissioner and the prohibition director are
mere agents and subordinates of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue. They act under his direction and
perform such acts only as he commits to them by the
regulations. They are responsible to him and must abide
by his direction. What they do is as if done by him.
He is the public's realrepresentative in the matter, and;
if the injunction were granted, his are the hands which
would be tied. All this being so, he should have been
made a-party defendant-the principal one-and given

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

opportunity to defend his direction and regulations.
Lit.chfield v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575, 578;
Plested v. Abbey, 228 U. S. 42, 50-51. In principle,
Warner Valley Stock Co. v. Smith, 165 U. S. 28, is well
in point. There an injunction was sought against the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the
G~neral Land Office to prevent them from giving effect
to prior orders of the Secretary alleged to be outside his
pbwers and hurtful to the plaintiff. While the suit was
pending the "Secretary resigned his office and there was
at that time no way of bringing his successor into the suit.
So, the question .arose whether it could be continued
against the Commissioner alone. The answer was in the
negative, the Court saying, p. 34:
"The purpose of the bill was to control the action of
the Secretary of the Interior; the principal relief sought
was against him; and the relief asked against the Commissioner of.the General Land Office was only incidental,
and by way of restraining him from executing the orders
of his officiil head. To maintain such a bill against the
subordinate officer alone, without joining his superior,
whose acts are alleged to have been unlawful,.would be
contrary to settled rules of equity pleading. Calvert bn
Parties, (2d ed.) bk. 3, c. 13.
"This is well exemplified by a decision of Lord Chancellor Hardwicke. Under acts of Parliament, appointing
commissioners to build fifty new churches, appropriating
money to support the ministers, and providing that the
moneys appropriated should be paid to a treasurer, not
one of the commissioners, but appointed by the Crown,
and should be by him disbursed and applied according to
.orders of the commissioners. Lord Hardwicke held that
a~bill by a minister of one of the churches te recover his
stipend, and to have a fund in the treasurer's hands invested as required by the acts, could not be maintained
.against, the treasurer alone, without joining any of the

GOTO v. LANE.
388

893

Syllabus.

commissioners; and said: 'This is one bf the most extraordinary bills I ever remember; and there is no foundation for relief, either in law or equity. It is brought
against Mr. Blackerby, who is nothing but an officer under
the commissioners for building the fifty new churches.
It would be absurd if a bill should lie against a person who
is only an officer and subordinate to others, and has no
directory power.' 'I should thin the commissioners only,
and not the treasurer, ought to have been parties, for it is
absurd to make a person who acts ministerially the sole
party.' VTenom v. Blackerby, 2 Ath. 144, 146; S. C.,
Bamardistoni Ch. 377."
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue was a party 'without
whose presence the suit could not be maintained; but the
decree of the District Court should not have been affirmed.
The decree was on the merits, and, as it was given in the
absence of a necessary party, it should not have been permitted to. stand.
On the record as brought here it is not certain that the
amount requisite to give the District Court jurisdiction
was involved; but that .question becomes immaterial in
view of the conclusion reached on the other point.
Decree reversed with directions to dismiss the bill
for want of a necessary party.
GOTO ET AL. v.-LANE, HIGHESI=RMIFF OF THE
TERRITOIRY OP I±kWAI.
APPEAL MOM TH)DISTkCT CAT'O
' UNITED STATES
:Pon Tj~ msTI~Iwbfc firl~
No. 463. Argued February 28,29, 1924.A-D dided June 2, 1924.

1. In the federal ch'arts a discharge on habeas corpus of a prisoner
confined under a'6riminal accusation or conviction, is granted only
in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion.' P. 401.

