GOTO v. LANE.
388

893

Syllabus.

commissioners; and said: 'This is one bf the most extraordinary bills I ever remember; and there is no foundation for relief, either in law or equity. It is brought
against Mr. Blackerby, who is nothing but an officer under
the commissioners for building the fifty new churches.
It would be absurd if a bill should lie against a person who
is only an officer and subordinate to others, and has no
directory power.' 'I should thin the commissioners only,
and not the treasurer, ought to have been parties, for it is
absurd to make a person who acts ministerially the sole
party.' VTenom v. Blackerby, 2 Ath. 144, 146; S. C.,
Bamardistoni Ch. 377."
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue was a party 'without
whose presence the suit could not be maintained; but the
decree of the District Court should not have been affirmed.
The decree was on the merits, and, as it was given in the
absence of a necessary party, it should not have been permitted to. stand.
On the record as brought here it is not certain that the
amount requisite to give the District Court jurisdiction
was involved; but that .question becomes immaterial in
view of the conclusion reached on the other point.
Decree reversed with directions to dismiss the bill
for want of a necessary party.
GOTO ET AL. v.-LANE, HIGHESI=RMIFF OF THE
TERRITOIRY OP I±kWAI.
APPEAL MOM TH)DISTkCT CAT'O
' UNITED STATES
:Pon Tj~ msTI~Iwbfc firl~
No. 463. Argued February 28,29, 1924.A-D dided June 2, 1924.

1. In the federal ch'arts a discharge on habeas corpus of a prisoner
confined under a'6riminal accusation or conviction, is granted only
in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion.' P. 401.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

265 U.S.

2. The instances in which this remedy is granted, when the law has
provided another remedy in egular course, are exceptional and
usually confined to situations where there is a peculiar and pressing
need for it,*or where the process or judgment under which the
prisoner is held is wholly void. P. 401.
3. Petitioners were convicted of an infamous crime in the Circuit
Court of Hawaii, under an indictment phrased disjunctively but
which they stipulated should be construed conjunctively; on exceptions reserved at the trial they contended in the territorial Supreme
Court that the indictment was bad for uncertainty, under the
Sixth Amendment, and the stipulation void as an amendment ofthe indictment without resubmission to a grand jury, in contravention of the Fifth Amendment; following local practice, the
Supreme Court overruled the exceptions without entering a judg-"
meat affirming the conviction which would have been reviewable
here; and thereafter the petitioners renewed the constitutional
objections by their petition for habeas corpus in the United States
Distriet Court for Hawaii.
Held: (a) That the territorial trial court had jurisdiction to decide
upon the construction of the indictment, its sufficiency -and the
effect of the stipulation, and its judgment, if erroneous, was not
void, even though the application of- constitutional principles was
involved. P. 402.
(b) The stipulation was not an amendment of the indictment. Ex
parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1, distinguished. Id.
(c) Relief should have been sought by writ of error from the
Hawaiian Supreme Court, whose judgment, if it affirmed the conviction, would have been reviewable here. Id.
(d) Allowing the time to elapse within which a writ of error might
have been taken, gave no right to habeas corpus as a substitute.
Id.
Affirmed.

APPAL from a judgment of the District Court for
Hawaii refusing a writ of habeas corpus.

Mr. Thomas W. Gregory for appellants.
The imprisonment of appel.ants under sentence of conviction based on an indictment amended without resubmission to the grand jury is in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. Ex parteBain, 121 U. S. 1; Calvin v. State,
25 Tex. 789; People v: Campbell, 4 Parker's Ciim. Rep.
(N. Y.) 386.

GOTO v. LANE.
393

"-395

Argument for Appellants.

The respondent will not be hear&t to say that the prosecution in procuring the s,pulation in question, and the
circuit judge in writing his approval thereon, did an idle
Uiing. It is clear, both from reason and authority, that
this stipulation effected an amendment of the indictment
just as much as if the word "or" ' wherever it'occurs
therein had been erased and the word "and" inserted in
lieu.

The only difference betwden the Bain Cake and this
case, so far as the question .under disctssion is concerned,
is that Bain was tried in a federal court while appellants
were tried in a territorial court. If they had-been tried
in a state court this difference might have become irportant, but it will hardly be questioned that the Fifth
Amendment applies to the courts of the Territory of
Hawaii. See Thompson v.Utah, 170 U. S..343; Hawasi v.
Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197; Rassmussen v. United States,
-197U. S. 516; Queenan v. Territory, 11 Okla. 261; Terri-.
tory v. Blomberg, 2 Ariz. 204; Miller v. State, 3 Okla.
Cr. Rep. 457.
This is not a case where a constitutional right has been
waived, but where a specific prohibition of the Constitution has been violated.
Appellants should not be remitted to a, remedy by
appeal to -this Court from the Supreme Court of the
-Territory of Hawaii, or by writ of error frohi this Court
to the Supreme Court of Hawaii.
After their conviction in the Circuit Court of the Territory of Hawaii, the defendants presented their case in the
Supreme Court of the Territory on a bill of exceptions in
the manner provided by the statutes of Hawaii, and said
court overruled their said exceptions. Territory v. Goto,
27 Raw.. 65.
From an order by the Supreme Court of the Territory
overruling exceptions there is no right of appeal or writ

396

6OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

265 U.S.

of error, and no method of having the order reviewed In
any other court except by writ of habeas corpus. Cotton
v. Hawaii, 211 U. S. 162; Hutchins v. Bierce, 211 U. S.
429; Spreckels v. Brown, 212 U. S. 208.
If a right to an appeal or writ of error from the action "
of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii existed,
it has been lost, and had been lost when the application
was made to the United States District Court for relief
by habeas corpus.
-The Supreme Court of Hawaii has repeatedly held, in
civil as well as in criminal cases, that no writ of error can
be taken after the six months elapsed.

Territory v. Wills,

26 Haw. 478; Ami v. Parke, 7 Haw. 214; Hennessy v.
Bolles, 2 Haw. 184; Bowler v. McIntyre, 9 Haw. 306.
After the exceptions had been overruled it was too late,
under Hawaii Rev. Laws 1915, § 2518, to take the case
to the Supreme Court of Hawaii by writ of error, and
besides that court, in dealing with the exceptions, had
already decided against appellants the very point herein
involved. When the petition for habeas corpus was filed
in the United States District Court more tihan a year
had elapsed since appellants had been -sentenced by the
Territorial Circuit'Co-irt.
Unless habeas corpus is available appellants are without
a remedy, notwithstanding the prohibition of the Fifth
Amendment and the provisions of §§ 755 and 761 of the
Revised Statutes. "
Under the exceptional circumstances of this case the
United States District Court of Hawaii was authorized
to grant and should have granted the relief sought by
appellants through habeas corpus.
A person restrained of his liberty by the judgment of a
court which is without jurisdiction is not barred from
release by the writ of habeas corpus because he might
have secured such relief by a writ of error but failed to

GOTO v. LANE.
393

397".

"Argment for Appellants.

'apply for it until it was too late. Stevens v. McClaughry,
207 Fed. 18; Ex parte Craig,282 Fed. .138.
The followingppropositiofs are sound:
1. The Uim.ted States' courts have the" power to grantrelief by habeas corpus,even when . state court having
the-applicant in 'custody has not finally determined the
case, but do not' exercise that power except "in cases of
peculiar urgency," or "under special circumstances requiring immediate action." Markuson v. Boucher, 175 U. S.
184; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241.
2; After there has been a final determination by a state
.court of-last resort, the general practice is to leave the
'defendant to his remedy of review by writ of error; but
there is a discretion in a federal court 'to .which the application for writ of habeas corpus is made to determine
"whether under all the circumstances then existing
:" . . the accused shall be put to his writ of error from
the highest court.of the State, or whether it will proceed
'by writ of habeas corpus." Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.
241; In're'IFrederich, 149 U. S. 70; Urquhart v. Brbz.n,
205 U. S. 1'79;.Appleyardv. Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222.
See Riggins v. United States,-199 U. S. 547.
3. The discretion referred to is "a legal discretion to
be cont'olled in its exercise by such-principles as are applicable to the particular cag in hand," New York V.
Eno, 155 U. S. 89; and "to be subordinated to -anysppcial
circumstances' requiring immediate action." Ex parte
Royall, 117 U. S. 241.
4. In a case where there is no right to review the decision of the highest state ieurt by appeal or writ of error,
there is no room for the exercise of discretion, and the
federal cpurt applied to must .grant the 'Writ of habeas
corpus, since by denying it the applicant would be cut off
from his only method of asserting his rights under'the
Constitution and §§ 755 and 761 of the Revised Statites.
Markuson. v. Boucher, 175 U. S. 184; In re Chapman,156

.398

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Cburt.

265 U. S.

U. S. 211; Riggins v. United States, 199 U. S. 547; Frank
v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309.
5. This Court has approved relief by habeas corpus in
a number of cases in which the.circumstances calling for
it were less persuasive than in ihis case. Appleyard v.
Masachusetts, 203 U. S.. 222; Medley, Petitioner,.134
U. S. 160; Savage, Petitioner, 134 U: S. 176; Matter of
Heff, .197 U. S. 488; Hawaii v. Mankichi, 1 Estee's Rep.
304; s. c. 190 U.'S. 197; Minnesota v. Barber,136 U..S."
313;. ,re Loney, 134 U. $.372; In re Neagle, 135 U. S.
1; Minnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S. 499.
6. A conviction and punishment d1nder an unconstitutional law is no more violative of a person's constitutional
rights than an unconstitutional conviction and punishment under a valid law. Nielsen, Petitioner, 131 U. S.
176; .Exparte Wilson, 114 U: S. 417; Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651.
Mr. Frederick Milverton, .with whom Mr. Frank E.
Thompson was on th brief, for appellee.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Geo. Ross Hull,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, by leave of
Court, filed & brief on behalf of .the United States as
amid curiae.
-MR."JsTiCE VAN DEVAwmR delivered the opinion .of

the Court...
This is an appeal from a judgment of the District Court
of Hawaii refusing a writ of habeas corpus sought by thirteen persons incustody under a judgment of conviction in
a territorial circuit court on an indictment for an infamous
crime against the -laws of that Territ6ry.
In stating the 'offense, the indictment used the disjunctive-" or" in several - instances where 'the conjunctive.
"and" doubtless would have been used by an attentive

-!GOTO v. LANE.
393

"399

Opinion of the Court.

draftsman. Had the matter introduced by the disjunctive been omitted in each instance, or hail it been introduced by a conjunctive, the indictment plainly would have
stated an offense against the statute under which it was
drawn. But in the latter of these situations the accusation and the range of admissible proof would have been
broader than in the former. The indictment was not
assailed in the circuit court because of any uncertainty in
the accusation. On the contrary, the defendants and their
counsel stipulated in writing with the prosecuting officer
that the indictment should be "considered and understood" as "reading in the conjunctive instead of in the
disjunctive"; that it should be taken as "not uncertain"
and that any defect arising from the use of the disjunctive
was waived. The circuit judge endorsed his approval on
the stipulation, and it was filed in the cause; but no
change was made in the indictment itself. The trial was
had thereafter, counsel.and the court proceeding as if the
disjunctive rightly should be construed and understood
as a conjunctive.
After conviction, the petitioners took the case to the
Supreme Court of the Territory on variois exceptions reserved to rulings in the course of the trial. In that court
one of their attorneys contended, over the disapproval of
another, that the indictment was made so uncertain by the
use of the disjunctive that it did not inform the petitioners'of the nature and cause of the accusation as required by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution, and
that the stipulation was void under the Fifth Amendment
because the indictment was thereby amended without a
resubmission to the grand jury. The Supreme Court, referring to these contentions, said:
"We are of the opinion that the stipul tion in question
can not be construed as amounting to an amendment of
the indictment. The trial court did express its approval
of the stipulation and of the waiver contained herein, but

400

OCTOBER TERM. 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

it did not amend the indictment or attempt or purport to
do so.'

.

.

If it might under other circumstances

reasonably be said that; by reason of the allegations in*
question being in the disjunctive instead of the conjunctive, there was some doubt as to what crime defendants*
were charged with, does it not expressly appear in this
case that not a vestige of doubt exists,; when the defendants themselves have distinctly and unequivocally
said, and their counsel learned in the law have solemnly
stipulated and agreed in writing, that neither the defendants nor their counsel had any doubt whateve of the
nature of the accusation against the defendants?"
And again, "As to whether, if an indictment palpably
stated no offense at all or the semblance of anyoffense, an
accised could waive his right to be informed of the nature
and cause of the accusation against him, under the facts
in the present case we are not required to say. There are,
indeed, many authorities to the effect that an indictment
which, in seeking to inform the accused of the nature and.cause of the accusation against him, charges the offense in
the disjunctive instead of the'conjunctive, is bad, up6n
the theory that it charges no offense at all. .But, as
. pointed out in Territory v. Kim Ung Pil, 26 Haw. 725,
even the courts which so hold conc6.e that the rule is not
without qualifications. Its merits need not be here considered. - . . When, as in the case at bar, the defendants and their able counsel have solemnly said to the
court, after ample time for study and reflection, that they
unaerstand the indictment, that the presence of the word
." or" does not mislead them or in any wise embarrass
them in their defense and that the indictment fully informs them of the nature and terms of the charge against
them, the alleged insufficiency or defectiveness of the in-:
dictment is one -which may be constitutionally waived.
Any other conclusion would, we think, be an affront to
justice and common sense."

GOTO v. LANE.
393

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court overruled the exceptions, but did
not render a judgment of affirmance,. for under the local
law that was not admissible in cases brought before the
court only on exceptions reserved. Therefore that decision could not be brought to this Court for review. Cotton v. Hawaii,211 U. S. 162; Hutchins v. Bierce, 211 U. S.
429. But had the petitioners so .chosien, they could have
taken the case to that court on writ of error instead of on
the reserved exceptions, and in that event a judgment of
affirmance, if involving the denial of a right asserted under the Constitution, could have been brought.by writ of
error to this Court for review in regular course. Spreckels
v. Browi, 212.U. S. 208. The petitioners, however, elected
to proceed the other way.
- With this statement of the situation and. proceedings in
the territorial courts, we turn to. the petition for habeas
corpus presented in the District Court. In it the petitioners set forth the indibtment, the stipulation and the
judgment of the trial court, and. then took the position,
first, that the use of the .disjunctive rendered the indictihent so uncertain that it did not meet the requirement of
the SLxti Amendment to the Constitution, and, secondly,
that the stipulation effected a change in the indictment
without a resubmission to a graid jury and that this was
in contravention of the Fifth Amendment. The District
Court denied the petition on the ground that the case
was not one in which the relief sought should be awarded.
In the federal dourts a discharge o. habeas corpus of
a prisioner held to answer a criminal accusation or confined under a judgment of conviction is granted only in
the exercise of a sound judicial discretion. Salinger v.
Loisel, ante, 224; Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U... 138,
143. The remedy is an extraordinary.one, out of the
usual course, and involves a collateral attack on the
process or judgment constituting the basis of the .detention. The instances in which it is granted, when the law

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

has pr6vided another remedy in regular course, are exceptional and usually confined to situations where there is
peculiar and pressing need for it or where the process or
judgment under which the prisoner is held is wholly void.
This case does not measure up to that test. The circuit
court in which the petitioners were tried and convicted
undoubtedly had jurisdiction of the subject matter and of
their persons, .and the seiftence imposed was not in excess
,of -itspower. The bfFense charged was neither colorless
nor an impossible one under the law. The construction to
be put on the indictment, its sufficiency and the. effect to
be given to the stipulation were all matters the determination of which rested primarily with that court. If it
erred in determining them, its judgment was not for that
reason void, Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 203; Ex parte
Parks, 93 U. S. 18, 20; Ex parte Yarbrough; 110 U. S.
651, 654; but subject to correction in regular course on
writ of error. If the questions presented involved the
application of constitutional principles, that alone did
not alter the rule. Markuson v. Boucher, 17.5 U. S. 184.
And, if the petitioners permitted the time within which a
review on writ of error might be obtained to elapse and
thereby lost the opportunity for such a review, that gave
no right to resort to habeas corpus as a substitute. Riddle
v. Dyche, 262 U. S. 333. And see Craig v. Hecht, 263
U. S.-255.
The petitioners rely on Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S,.1,
where it was held that an actual amendment of an indictment for an infamous crime withoiit a resubmission to
the grand jury rendered the indictment void and left the
court without power to proceed to a trial. But, as was
said by the Supreme Court of the Territory, the indictment here was not amended. The purpose of the stipulation was not to alter or change the indictment but to
show that the parties construed and understood the accusation in a particular way. aind desired the court to.do

PACIFIC GAS CO. v. $AN FRANCISCO.
393

403

Syllabus.

the ame. Had -thecburt done so without the stipulation,
that might have been'an error in the exercise of jurisdiction, but it would not hav&worked an, entire diability to

proceed to a trial and judgment. And had. the accused
• been acquitted it hardly would .be said that the acquittal.
was void. The stipulation did not alter the situation in
these.respects.
We find. no' special circumstances i the case which
should have required the District Court; in the exercise
of a sound judicial discretion, to discharge the petitioners.
'Judgment affirmed.

PACIFIC GAS
ELECTRIC COM'PANY v. CITY
AND COUNTYOF SAN FRANCISCO.
PACIFIC GAS & ELEWCTRIC COMPANY v. CITY
AND COUNTY OF. SAN FRANCISCO ET AL.-

PACFC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v. CITY
MW .COUNTY OF SAN FRANCIEICO ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF. CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 34-36. Argued April 17, 1923; restored to docket for reargument Novenber 27, 1923; reargued February 19, 1924.-Decided
June 2, 1924

1. The evidence supports a finding that a net return of 7 per. cent.
was necessary to avoid- confiscation, iii the fixing of the appellant
company's gas rates by public authority. P. 405.
2. In determining the amount deductible for accrued depreciation
when valuing the property of a public utility for the purpose of

testing the adequacy of rates during a.ppriod already elapsed,
estimates of competent experts based on examination of the plantsubsequent to-the depreciation are preferable to averages based on
assumed probabilities. P. 406.

