206

OCTOBER .TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.'

Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 44, this motion should be
granted; but it does not change the ultimate result, because the final decree of the District Court dismissing the
bill really turned on the same erroneous ruling of its prematurity as that upon which the temporary injunction
was denied and must be reversed for the same reasion.
After the case was reached in this Court, soniewhat extended argument was made in the later appeal to show
that the bill was defective in stating a case for equitable
relief even if it was n6t*premature. The argument is
based on objections which seeni to us to be rather makeweights, or afterthoughts, and are so unsubstantial that
we do not discuss them. The merits of the issue between
the parties can be developed after the case is Iemanded to
the District Court for further! proceedings.
Decree reversed and -cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this-opinion.

HOME TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY
OF SPOKANE v. KUYKENDALL, AS DIRECTOR
OF PUBLIC WORKS OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPELS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE tf[
FOR THE 'WESTER

STATES

DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos..539 and 790. Argued April 17, 1924:.--Decided May'26, 1924.
1. Upon appeal from decrees refusing an.interlocutory injunction
and tismissing the bill on demurrer, the court will not pais"upon
an issue not shown by the bill' but only by an opposing affidavit
used at the injunction hearing. P. 208.
2. Decided (in other respects) upon the authority of Pacific Telephone Co. v. Kuykendall, ante, 196.

Reversed.

APPEAS from decre6s of the District. Court refusing an
interlocutory injunction and finully dismissing on de,

HOME TEL. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
206

Opinion of the Court.

murrer a bill to enjoin interference with increases of
telephone rates.
Mr. Otto B. Rupp, with whom Mr. Firank-T. Poet, Mr.
HI. D. Pillsbury, Mr. C. M. Bracelen and Mr. W. VT.
Tanner were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. John B. Dunbar,Attorney General of the State of
Washington, Mr. Thos. X. L. Kennedy and Mr. Alex M.
Winston, with whom Mr. H. C. Brodie, Mr. J. M.
Geraghty and Mr. E. K. Murray were on the briefs, for
appellees.
My. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These appeals present the same question as that just
condidered and decided in the appeal of the Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company against the same appellees.
The bill averred that the plaintiff was a corporation of
Washington, owning and operating a telephone system in
the City of Spokane and territory adjacent thereto, known
as the Spokane Exchange; that on September 20, 1922, it
filed with the Department of Public Works a. schedule of
rates by which those of 1919 as approved in that year by
the Public Service Commission, the predecessor of the
Department of Public Woirks,' were substantially increased; that the Department suspended the new rates
and March 31, 1923, finally denied the company its application for increase, thereby limiting it to prior rates
alleged to be confiscatory in character. In detail, the
bill set out the cost of the Spokane system at over four
millions of dollars and its present value at $5,710,684, and
averred that a fair return thereon would be 8 per cent;
that the actual return therefrom had been:
On. cost

Onfairvalu

Year 1919 ..................

2.959

2.14%

Year 1920 .......................

1.79 t

1.30%

Year 1921......................
Year 1922 .......................

2.35%
3.07%

1.71%
228%

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

and that the order of March 31, 1923, by which an increase of rateshadbeen denied, operated to limit it to the
prior rates which it alleged were and would continue to
be confiscatory. The prayer was for a temporary and
permanent injunction.
These appeals were heard at the same time with the
two just disposed of in the Pacfic Telephone & Telegraph
Co. Case, ante, 196, and the same orders were made
therein by the District Court. There is no difference
in the cases except that. on the motion for a temporary injunction an affidavit of the Assistant Corporation Counsel of Spokane was filed which set forth, among
other reasons for denying an injunction, an ordinance of
the City of Spokane of April, 1909, in which rates for
telephone service by the Home Teleph6ne Company in
that city were fixed in a schedule much lower than the one
said to be necessary for a fair return, and alleged that the
ordinance was still in full force and effect, was a valid
contract between the City and the Company, and that
thus the bill of the plaintiff must fail. Upon argument
and brief in this Court, counsel for the Company insist
that, under the decision of the Supreme Court of Washington in Spokane Falls Ga, Light Co. v. Kuykendall,
119 Wash. 107, action of the City in reducing the rates of
the ordinance in 1913 and increasing them in 1919 must
he held to terminate the contract of the ordinance and
bring the rates within the regulation of the Public Service
Commission or its successor the Department of Public
Works.
It is obvious that upon this appeal we could not safely
pass upon an issue raised upon an affidavit and not shown
in the bill. The temporary injunction was denied and the
bill was dismissed by the District Court on the same
ground as that explained at length in the Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company Case. For the same reasons
as therein stated we must dismiss the appeal in No. 539 as

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. v. U. S.
206

Argument for Appellant.

merged in No. 790 and reverse the District Court in the

latter appeal and remand the case for further proceedings
when, upon answer and the merits, the effect of the ordinance referred to and other questions raised in the
affidavit can be fully considered.
Reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TEE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 248. Argued April 28, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
For the purpose of securing the reduced rates for transportation of
its property over land-grant railroads, the Government purchased
goods for prices f. o. b. at place of shipment, paid the freight, and
had shipment made by the sellers with government bills of lading.

Held, that title passed at place of shipment, although the contracts
of sale reserved to the Government the right of inspection and
rejection at the place of destination and imposed certain duties
there upon the sellers, and that goods so transpbrted, and accepted

by th6 Government, were entitled to the reduced rates of transportation. P. 213.
57 Ct. Clms. 277, affirmed.
APPFaL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting claims for additional compensation for transportation
of freight.

Mr. Benjamin Carterfor appellant.
The question is whether freights intended for government uses, but which the Government was under no
obligation to accept -until after they had reached destination, were, while in transit, "property of the United
States" and lawful subjects of transpoitation rates at
which, in virtue of land grants, "property of the United

