OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

.292

Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. CHICAGO, NEW YORK
& BOSTON REFRIGERATOR COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO TME. "COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 288.

Argued Ma'y 2, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.

A car compank whose business consists in leasing its refrigerator cars
to railroads on a car-mile basis, and which solicits freight, but
which does not control or use the facilities necessary for performing carriage, or hold itself out to perform cariage by publishing
rates therefor, or receive compensation from, shippers whose shipments move in its cars, is not a "carrier by railroad," within the
meaning of § 209 of the Transportation Act, 1920, which made a
guaranty of income for six months after March 1, 1920, with re-

spect to any carrier by railroad., with which a contract had been
made fixing the amount of just compensation under the Federal

Control Act. P. 293.
?88 Fed, 649; 53 App. D. C. 111, affirmed.

Error to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, whichi affirmed a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District dismissing a petition for
mandamus.
Mr. William G. Wheeler and Mr. Edward M. Hyzer for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. CarterFort, with whom Mr. P. . Farrellwas on
the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JusT E SUTHE.RLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By § 209 (c) of Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat.
456, 464, the United States gvarantees, for a period of
six months, after March 1, 1920, with respect to any car-

CHICAGO REFRIGERATOR CO. v. I. C. C. 293
Opinion of the Court.

292

rier with which a contract has been made fixing .the'
amount of just compensation under the Federal Control

Act, that the railway operating income of such carrier as
a whole shall not be less than one-half the amount named
in such contract as annual compensation.
By the same section, subdivision (a), the term "carrier" is defined to mean, "(1) a carrier by railroad or
partly by railroad and partly by water, whose railroad or
system of transportation is under Federal control at the
time Federal control terminates, . . . and (2) a
sleeping car company whose system of transportation is.
under Federal control at the time Federal control terminates.

. .. !

By sdbdivision (g), p. 466, the Interstate Commerce
Commission is directed to "ascertain and certify to the
Secretary of the Treasury the several amounts necessary
to make good the foregoing guaranty to each Warrier."
,On March 15, 1920, plaintiff in error, hereafter called'
the Car Company, filed with the Connission its written
acceptance of the provisions of § 209, and at a later time
applied to the Commission for the ascertainment and
certificate mentioned in subdivision (g). The Commission denied the application upon the ground that the
Car Company was not a carrier within the meaning of
the act. Thereupon, a -mandamus was sought from the
Supreme Court of the District of. Columbia, to compel
the Commission to comply with the provisions of subdivision (g); but that court, after a hearing, discharged
the rule and dismissed the petition. Upon appeal to
the Court of Appeals this judgment was affirmed. 288
Fed. 649.
The single question presented is whether the Car Company is a "carrier by railroad." Immediately prior to
federal control, the Car Company owned 1340 refrigerator cars, which were operated over various lines of
railroad under contracts with the railroad companies.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.'
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

The Car Company did not own or control any railroad
property or facilities, aside from these cars. The cofttracts provided for payment of compensation for the use
of the cars by the railroad companies on the basis of mileage-that is, a fixed sum for each mile over which the cars
were run. The cars were under the control of the railroad

companies, subject to the observance, on their part, of the
directions of the Car Company as to the distribution of
the cars. The Car Company solicited freight from shippers, for which it was generally paid commissions; and
exercised a degree of supervision over the shipment.
Sometimes cars containing shipments were delivered by
non-contract railroads, from which the Car Company received payment of the mileage charges. Bills of lading
covering shipments were generally made by the railroad
companies; but a small percentage, perhaps ten per
centum, of the shipments originating west of Chicago
were rebilled on the forms of the Car Company, subject
to tariffs and classifications of .the railroad companies. then
in effect. Way bills were made out by the railroad companies; and all freight charges were paid to the railroad
companies, no payment for transportation being made by
the shippers to the Car Company. The Car Company
was incorporated to manufacture, sell or rent freight cars,
rolling stock and for other specified purposes; but nothing
is said in its articles of incorporation in respect of any
operation as a carrier. It filed no tariffs with the Commission, as interstate railroad carriers are required to do;
nor did it keep its accounts in accordance with the rules
of the Commission. The refrigerator cars were taken
over and used by the Director General of Railroads during the period of federal control and compensation therefor paid to the Car Company. Upon the expiration of
such control the cars were surrendered to the Car Comapany. The court below accurately summarized the testimony as showing, "that the Refrigerator Company is not

CHICAGO REFRIGERATOR CO. v. I. C.'C. 295.
292

Opinion of thie Court.

incorporated as a carrier, does not control or use the
necessary facilities for performing carriage, does not hold
itself out to perform carriage by publishing rates applicable thereto, and does not in fact perform carriage or re-.
ceive any compensation from shippers whose shipments
move in its cars. The cars ate rented to railroad companies. They are subject to the control of the latter and
are to all intents and purposes their property'during the
period of the lease. In a word, the Refrigerator Company carries nothing.'
ri.Wells Fargo& Co. v Taylor,254 U. S. 175, 187-188,
this Court defined the words "common carrier by railroad," as used in the Eihployers' Liability'Act of April 22,
1908, e. 149, 35 Stat. 65, to mean "one who operates a
railroad as a means of carrying for the public,-that is to
say, a railroad company acting as a common carrier' If
this definition be applied here, it disposes of the question
against the contention of the Car Company, since it is
plain that it does not operate a railroad-that is, it is not
a railroad company acting as a common carrier. The
contention, however, is that this definition was confined
to the words as used in the Employers' Liability Act, and
that they are used in the Transportation Act in a different sense. It is quite true that because words used in one
statute have a particular meaning they do not necgssarily
denote an identical meaning when used in another and
different statute. But in the Taylor Case, the definition
was not made to rest upon any peculiarity in the act
under review, but was said to be- "in accord with thle
ordinary acceptation of the words," and this ordinary
meaning was enforced by a consideration of certai
provisions of the act, which were enumerated.
In Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 237 U. S.
434, 443-444, it was held that the Armour Car Lines,
which owned, manufactured and maintained refrigerator,
tank and box cars, and .let them to railroads or to ship-

296

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

pers, was not a common carrier subject to the Act to
Regulate Commerce, § 12, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 383. The
facts in respect of ownership of cars, use, relation to the
railroads, etc., were much the same as those in the present
case. After reciting them, this Court said: "It has no
control over motive power or over the movement of the
cars that it furnishes as above, and in short, notwithstanding some argument to the contrary, is not a common
carrier subject to the act. It is true that the definition
of- transportation in § 1 of the act includes such instrumentalities as the Armour Car Lines lets to the railroads.
But the definition is a, preliminary to a requirement that
the carriers shall furnish them upon reasonable request,
not that the owners and builders shall be regarded as carriers, contrary to the truth. The control of the Commission over private cars, &c., is to be effected by its control
over the railroads that are subject to the act. The railroads may be made answerable for what they hire from
the Armour Car Lines, if they would not be otherwise,
but that does not affect the nature of the Armour Car
Lines itself." We need not review the arguments and
contentions made here to the contrary. It is enough to
say, that under the facts the Car Company is not a carrier by railroad, or, indeed, a common carrier at all, within
the ordinary acceptation of the words, and there is nothing in the terms of the Transportation Act which suggests a different view. Such inferences as. are to be
drawn from the provisions of the act, as pointed out by
the court below, are the other way. The guaranty itself
is in respect "of railway operating income." The Car
Company's income may be "operating income" but certainly it is not "railway operating income." The income
arises not from operating a railway but from the use of
facilities let to the railway companies for fixed compensation. Stress is laid on the assertion that there is no specific language in the contracts, except in bne instance, to

CHICAGO REFRIGERATOR CO. v. I. C. C. 297
292

Opinion of the Court.

the effect that the cars are leased. It is not necessary
that there should be. In pursuance of the contracts the
cars were delivered to, operated and controlled and their
use as instrumentalities of transportation paid for by, the

railroads. This is enough to establish a letting for hire;
and there is nothing in the contracts or in any of the
details of their performance which requires a different
conclusion.
If the Car Company is a carrier by railroad, it would
seem to follow that sleeping car comdpanies and express
companies are-likewise included within the words. Evidently, however, Congress did not think so, since § 209
of the act contains special provisions in respect of these
companies, which would have been entirely unnecessary
if they had been so.included. The contention that the
Car Company, if not a carrier by railroad, is a " system of
transportation" and hence within the .yords of the statutory definition, may be readily disposed of. The phrase
forms part of the definition: "a carrier by railroad or"
partly by railroad and partly by water, whose railroad or
system of transportation is under Federal control," etc.
It is plain that the words "whose railroad or system of
transportation" etc., are not to be read independently
but as qualifying the language inmediately preceding;
and the are to be taken distributively as though the
clause had read "a carrier by railroad, whose railroad is
under Federal control, or, a carrier partly by railroad and
partly-by water, whose system of transportation is under
Federal control."
It follows that the judgment of the lower court is right

and it is
Affirmed.

