~454

OCTOER

ER ,-1923.

Statinent of the Case:

265 U. S.-

validity of the patent with reference to all propositions
involved in th~e word .patentabilitk "'. -(p. 48.1 "
The conclusion of fact reached by.the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth. Circuit, as set forth in its.opinion, "
*that in the light of the -rio# art Harnatta's improvement
was lalking in inrention, commends itself to. our judgment. It involves no eri'or in law. Therefore, without
consideiing the other defenses presented, the "decree of
thaf court is

Affirmed.
CUBAN ALLIED WORKS
ENGINEERING CORPOR ATION v. LLOYDS, A
,CORPORATION, AS TREASURER OF LLOYDS
UNDERWRITERS SYNDICATE NO. 601, ET-AL.

J-ITED' STATEgSu&

OiN TRANSFER FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF,APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No.

94o. Motion to dismisi or remand submitted May 26, 1924.Decided June 9, i924.

A case. cannot' b transferred to this Court from the Circuit Court
of Appeals, under the Transfer Act of Septembei 14, 1922, if the
writ of error froin that court Wras sued out after the expiration of
"the period allowed by the Act-of September 6,1916, for applying.

to this Court for process to review the judgment of the District
Court. McM , Co.'v. Abemrnathy, 263,U. S.438. P. 456.
Case remanded to Circuit Court of Appeals.
-

A juDGENr of the District Court, quashingthe service
of summons. in an action on. a marine insurance policy,
was taken bywrit of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which, believing.itself without jurisdiction, ordered the
case transferred to -his Court..
Mr. HerbertBawy and Mr. Archibald O . Thacher, for

defendants in error, in-support of the motion to dismiss
*or remand:

U. S. & CUB..AN CO. v. LLOYDS.
454

455

Opnon of the Court.

MI. CmI JusneaB TAY

delivered the opinion of the

Court..
Averring that it.was the owner of a floating dry dock
at Havaii,. 'Cuba, which had sunk and become a total

loss, plaintiff in error, -a Delaware corporation, fied its
bill of complaint in the Distridt Couit of the United
States for the Southern District of New York .torecover
upon a policy of marine insurance covering the dock.
The policy was alleged to have beeA issled by certain
enumerated Lloyd# Underwriters Syndicateg, each-trans.
acting business as an unincororated association, of more
than seven persons under the name'and style of Lloyds
Underwriters,, Lloyds, Lloyds Iondon, or Underwriting
Members of Lloyds. The service of process was made.
upon one Fowle, agent in New York City -for Lloyds, a
corporation alleged to b'e the treasurer, or acting as the
treasurer, for each of the underwriting associations. The
corporation Lloyds, appearing specially, moyed to quash
the service on the grounds that the policy sued upon
constituted the separate and not joint contracts of the
individual underwriters who had signed the same; that
Lloyds was not the tregsurer or acting in the capacity of
treasurer for the underwriters upon said policy or for any
association or associations of underwriters, and that the
service ofi Fowler, as its agent, was therefore null and
void. Plaintiff challenged these assertions and urged
that the service in question was valid under the provisiois
of a New York statute authorizing service -to be made
upon unincorporated associations consisting of more thaui
'seven persoiis by delivery of process to the president or
treasurer of -the association or upon the person acting in
such capacity.
The District Court, being of opinion that defendant's
objections were well taken, made and signed an orcer on
April-10, 1923,'quashing thi service as of no effect. M'ore

456

4OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

than three months thereafter, to wit, on October 11, 1923,
plaintiff was allowed a writ of error from the Circuit
Court of Appeals to review said order. When the writ
of error came on for hearing in the Court of Appeals, that
court held that it was without jufisdiction to entertain it
as the sole question presented by the record concerned the
jurisdiction of the District Couri and review could be had
only in this Court. It accordingly ordered the case transferred to this Court pursuant to the Act d September 14,
1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, which provides that where on
appeal or writ of error a case is taken from a district court
to the wrong appellate court, that is, to a circuit court 'of
appeals, when it should have been taken directly to this
.Court, or to this Court when it should. have been taken
to a circuit court of appeals, the appeal or -writof error
shall not for that reason be dismissed but shall be transferred to the proper court, which shall thereupon proceed
with the case as though review had originally been sought
in that court.
Appellee now moves in this Court to dismiss the writ
of error, or in the alternative to remand the cause to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, because the writ was not sued
out until after the exp'iration of the three months' period
following entry of the judgment or decree complained of
within which, under ยง 6 of the Act of September 6, .1916,
c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, 727, a writ of error, appeal, or writ
of certiorari must be applied for to give this Court jurisdiction to entertain it. In support of its motion, appellee
relies upon the recent decision of this Court in McMTian
Co. v. Abernathy, 263 U. S. 438, wherein it was said
(p. 443):
"W6 do not think the Act of 1922 applies to any case
in which the appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals is'
taken after the period for appeals to this Court has
expired. Otherwise the act will enable one who negligently allowed his right of appeal to this Court to go by,

UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. HERKERT 457
5Syllabus.

to take his appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals and by
transfer get into this Court, and thus lengthen the time
f6r direct appeals to this Court from three to six months.
This result we can not assume Congress intended."
In view of this ruling, it is obvious that the failure in
the present case to sue out the writ of error until after
the expiration of three months from the entry of the
District Court's order deprve; this Court of jurisdiction
to entertain the writ, and that the trinsfer- of the*case
from the Circuit Court of- Appeals 'to this Court was
without sanction in the Act of 1922. We can only send
the case back to the Circuit Court of Appeals for its
disposition.
The motion'to dismiss is therefore denied, and the cause
is remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
UINITED LEATHER WORKERS INTERNATIONAL
UNION, LOCAL LODGE OR UNION NO. 66, ET
AL. v. HERKERT & MEISEL TRUNK COMPANY
ET AL.
APPFAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIG

CIRCUIT.

No.233. Argued April 24,25, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1. A strike by employees, intended to prevent through illegal picketing and intimidation of workers the continuea'maniufacture of
goods by their dnployer and having that effect, is not a conspiracy
to restrain interstate commerce, within the Anti-Trust Act, even
though the strikers know that the products when made are
he shipped in interstate commerce to fll orders already received
and accepted from the employer's customers in other States; provided there be no actual or attempted interference with the free
transport of the products, when manufactured, from the factory
to their destination in other States, or with their. sale in those
States. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co., 259 U. S.344.
P. 464.

