SHEEHAN CO. v. SHULER.

371

Syllabus.

365

not realize enough to pay either the'debts of the partfiership or the debts of the individual partners, respectively,
establish the insolvency of the partners at the time the
lien was obtained.
There being neither allegation nor proof by the trustee
of the insolvency of the Beckers when the Bank recovered its judgment and fastened its liens upon their real
estate, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is re-

versed and the cause remanded to the District' Court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

R. E. SHEEHAN COMPANY ET AL. v. SHULER, AS
STATE TREASURER OF'THE STATE OF NEW

YORK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF XEW YORK.
.No. 593. Argued Jajiuary 9,' 1924.-Decided May 26, 1024.
Amendments of the New York Workmen's Coxhpensation Law (see
New York Central 1. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188,) provide that,
when an injury causes the death of an employee leaving no beneficiaries, the employer or other insurance cafrier shall pay the
State Treasurer'$500 for each of two special funds, one to be used
in paying additional'compensation to employees incurring permanent total disability after partial ilisability, the other in vocational education of employees so injured as to need rehabilitation,
the use of the special funds for these purposes being additional
compensation to employees thus injured over and above that prescribed as the payments to be made. by their immediate employers. He/d:
(1) That the due process clause of th6 Fourieeth Amendment does
not require that this additional compensation be paid by the immediate employers of the employees to. be -benefited, nor prevent
the legislature from providing, for its payment out of general
funds created as above described. P. 376. Mountain Timber Co.
v. Washington, 243 U: S. 219.
(2)' The arrangement does not conflict with the equal protectioii
clause. P. 378.
236 N. Y. 579, affrmed.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

. -

0

265 U. S.

ERROR to a judgment affirming two awaids under the
.New York Workmen's Compensation Law, entered in the
Supreme Court of New York after affirmances by the
Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals and'remittitur of the record. See also the case next following, post,
p. 379.
Mr. WiflianH.Foster for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. E. ClarenceAiken, Deputy Attqrney General, with
whom Mr. Car Sherman, .Attorney General of the State
of New Yorkwas on the brief, for defendants in error.
Mu. JUsTICE SANom

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

-

. This case involves the question of the constitutionality
of two recent amendments to the Workmen's Compensation Law of New York. Enacted, Laws, 1913, 6. 816;
regnacted, Laws, 1914, c. 41.
This is a compulsory law "establishing in certain em-"
ployments classed as hazardous an exclusive system governing compensation for injuries to employees resulting indisability or death, irrespective of negligence, and requiring compensation to be paid th injured employees'or,
in case of death, t& designated beneficiaries, ' according
to prescribed scales gauged by the previous wages and
the extent of the disabilities or dependency of the beneficiaries. The employer is required to insure the payment
of such compensation in a state insurance fund or with an'
authorized stock assocition or mutual association, unless,
-upon proof of his .financial ability, he is permitted to
become a "self-insurer . ' The constitutionality of this
law was sustained in New York (entral 1. R. Co. v.
White, 243 U. S. 188.
2A widow (or dependent husband), children under eighteen years
of age, or other dependen relatives.*

SHEEHAN CO. v. SHULER.
371

Opinion of the Court.

The Comp'erisation Law was amenddd by the Laws of
f922, c. 615 (Consol. Laws, c.67),.so as to 'Include, as
subdivisions 8 and 9 of § 15, the tvo provisions involved
case, which, read:
in
thisPermanent
. "8.
total disability after permanent partiaul
disability.. If an employee who has previously incurred
•permanent. partial di abilxity through the 'loss of one
hand," arm, foot, leg, or eye, "incurs permanent total
disability through the loss of another membei or organ,
he shall be paid,. in addition to the compensation for per•manent partial disability"' and after the cessation
thereof, "specid additional compensation for- th.,re-.
mainder of his life to the amount of sixty-six and twothirds per centum of the average weekly'wage earned
by him at the tfine the total permanent disability was
incurred. Such additional comlpensation shall be paid
out of a special fund credted for such purpose in the fol
-lowing manner: The insurance carrier 8 shall pay to the
state treasurer for every case of injury causing death

in which there are .no persons entitled to compensation
the sum of five hundred dollars. The state treasurer shall
be the custodian of this special fund, and the [industrial]
commissioner shall direct the distribution, thereof.'
" 9. Maintenance for employees undergoing vocational
rehabilitatin. An employee, who as a result of injtuy is
'Subdivision 7 of § 15 provides that "an employee who is'suffering from a previous disability shall not receive compensation for a

later injury in excess of the compensation allowed for such injury
when considered'by itself and not in conjunction with the previous

disability." See note 4, infra.
'That is, the state fund, or corporation or asociation with which
an employer has insured, or an employer permitted to become a
"self-insurer." § 2.
'This subdivision, which was formerly subdivision 7 of .§ 15, was
incorporated into the Compensation Law by the Laws of 1916, c. 622;

the amount of the'payment originally prescribed bein' one hundred
dollars. Awards made to the state treasurer under this provision,
in its original form, were sustained in State Indut. Comm. v. New-

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

or may be expected to be totally or partially incapacitated
for a remunerative occupation and who; under the.direetion of the state board of-vocational education is being
rendered fit to engage in a, remunerative occupation.'shal
man, 222 N. Y. 363, and State Indust. Comm. v. Rdaa 222 N. Y.
651 (affirming 179 App. Div. 481).
The history and purpose of this provision is -thus stated in State
Indust. Comm. v. Newman, supra, p. 366: "In March, 1914, the present Worlen's Compensation Law was finally enacted.
It did not then contain the provisions . . . of subdivision 7 of
section 15. In Noveniber, 1915, we deided that a claimant, who
became an employee under the act, having theretofore'lost a hand,
became entitled, upon the loss of the remaining hand while such employee, to the compensation f6r permanent total disability and-not
to the lesser compensation for permanent partial disability....
Manifestly, the law was a hindrance to those who, having lost a hand
or other member, sought t6 become employees under the act, because
the loss of the remaining member subjected the employer to the'
payment of a compensation substantially gieater than it would in case
the employee had had the two members. After the decision
the legislature by an amendment to subdivision 6 [now 7] of section
15 enacted that' an employee whois suffering from a previous disability shill nit xeceive corpensation for a later injury- in excess
of the compensation allowed for such injury- when onsidered by
itself and not in conjunction with the previous disability.
.
The provisions of section 15 were suppleniented in 1916 by the
addition of subdivision 7. .. . . The evident and clear purpose
of the subdivision was to remove a condition, as between employers and partia.W disabled employees, inconsonant'with the spirit
of the at and, perhaps, unjust, through- the creation of a state
fund contributed t6 by the.-insurance carriers and, as the permanint
total disabiliiy arose, accessible to any member of the entire prescribed class of employees so disabled'
'The Laws of 1920, c.760,addedio thb Education Law as Article
47, a " Rehabilitation Law," by which the State accepted he p rokyisions of the federal appropriation for vocational training of disabled persons. made an additional - appropriation thirefor to -the
state-department of education, and required the industrial commis- sion to report to that- department all cases of injuries received by
employees -whibh might -result in n6ed of rehabilitation.

SHEEHAN CO. v. SHULER.
371

Opinion of the Court.

receive additional compensation necessary for his maintenance;" but not exceeding ten dollars a week.. "The
expense shall lie paid out of a special fund created in the
following maimer: The insurance carrier shall pay to the
state treasurer for every case of injury causing' death,
in which there are no persons entitled to compensatin,
the sum of five hundred dollars. The state treasurer shall
be the custodian of this special fund and the industrial
commissioner shall direct the distribution thereof." 8
In February, 1923, an employee of the Sheehan Company in one of the hazardous occupations, sustained, in
the course of his employment, accidental injuries resulting in his death. He left no survivors entitled to compensation. The State Industrial Board, in an appropriate proceeding under the Compensation Law, awarded
the State Treasurer against the Sheehan Company, as
employer, and .the Aetna Life Insurance Company, as
insurance carrier, two sums of five hundred dollars each,
pursuant .to subdivisions 8 and 9, respectively, of § 15.
On successive appeals these awards were affirmed, without
opinions, by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court
and by the Court of Appeals. 206 App. Div. 726; 236
N. Y. 579. The record was remitted to -the Supreme
Court, to which this writ of error was directed. Hodges
1
v. Snyder, 261 U. S. 600.
The companies contend that these subdivisiolis are in
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment and that the
awards made thereunder deprive them of their property
without due process and deny them the equal protection
of the laws.
'This provision,-which was formerly subdivision 8 of. § 15, was
incorporated into the Compensation Law by the Laws of 1920,
c. 760; the amount of the payment originally prescribed being nine

hundred dollars. The constitutionality of this subdivision, in its
original form, was sustained in Watkinson v. Hotel Pennmijvanc, 231
N. Y. 562 (affirming, witho t opinion, 195 App. Div. 624).

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

The substance of these two provisions is that when an
injury causes the death of an employee leaving no beneficiaries, the employer or other insurance carrier shall
pay -the State Treasurer the sum. of five hundred dollars
for each of two special funds: one to be used in paying
additional compensation to employees incurring permianent tbtal disability after permanent partial disabilities;
and the other, in the vocational education of employees
so injured as to need rehabilitation. The use of such
special funds for such purposes ii an additional compensation to the employees thus injured, over and above that
prescribed as the payments to be made-bY their immediate employers.. Such additional compensation is neither
unjust nor unreasonable. Thus, an employee wbto, having
lost, one hand in a previous accident, thereafter loses the
second hand, is, obviously, not adequately compensated
by the provision requiring his employer to make payment
for the loss of the second hand, independently considered; I the total incapacity finally resulting from the
loss of both hands working much more than double the
injury resulting from the loss of each separate hand considered by itself. In such a case, however; as in the case
of an injury requjring vocational rehabilitation, it is the
theory of the law that such additional compensation to
-theinjured employee should not be required of the particular employer in whose service the injury occurred,
but should be provided out of general funds created by
jayments required of all employers when injuries resulting in the death of their own .employees leaving no
beneficiaries, do not otherwise create any liability under
the Compensation Law.
We do not think that the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment requires that such additional
compensation to injured employees of the specified classes,
7Note 2, supra, p. 373.

SHEEHAN CO. v. SHULER.
371

Opinion of the Court.

should be paid by their immediate employers, or prevents
the legislature from providing for its payment out of
general funds so created. In Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S: 219, 244, it was held that a Workmen's Compensation Ac.t did not deprive the employers
of due process, because the compensation to the injured
employees and their surviving dependents was not made
by their immediate employers, but out of state funds to
Which the employers were required to make stated contributions, based upon definite percentsges of their payrolls, in different groups of industrfes classified according
to hazard. On this question the Court said: "To the
criticism that carefully managed plants are in -effect required to contribute to make,good the losses arising
through the negligence of their-competitors, it is sufficient
to say that the ct recogni'es that no management, however cayeful, can .afford immunity'from personal injuries
to employees in the hazardous oceiipations, and prescribes
that negligence is niot to be deteriniative of the iluesti6n
.of the responsibility of the employer or the industry.
Taking the fact that accidental injuries are inevitable, in
connection with the impossibility of foreseeing when, or.
in what particular plant or industry they w! occur, we
deem that the State acted within its power in.declaring
that no employer should conduct such an industry witfrout making stated and faily .apportioned contributions
adeqfiate to maintain a iublic fund for indemnifying injured employees and the dependents of those killed, irrespective of the particular plant in which the accident
might happen to occur. In shoit, it cannot, be deemed
arbitrary or um'easonable for the State,-instead of imposing upon the particular employer entire responsibility
for losses occurring in his own plant or work, to impose
the burden upon the industry through a system of occupation taxes limited to the actual losses occurring in the respective classes of occupation."

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

So in the present case the State acted within its power
and neither arbitrarily nor unreasonably, in providing
that a portion of the compensation to injured employees
in cases coming within the provisions of subdivisions 8
and-9, should not be required in the form of direct payments by their particular employers but should be made
from public funds established for that purpose by payments from employers whose own employees leave no
beneficiaries.
The payments thus required are not unfair and unreasonable in amount. The aggregate for the two funds
is one thousand dollars. This is much less than the maximum payment which may be required according to the
scales.in case the employee leaves survivors entitled to
death .benefits, and seems not to exceed, if it equals, the
average amount of the payments required in such cases.
Nor are these provisions in conflict with the equal protection clause. The contention of the companies is that
the prescribed awards are in the nature of a tax imposed
upon the happening of a contingency, and are of.unequal
application; that is, that they are imposed only upon such
employers as happen to have employees who are killed
without leaiing survivors entitled to compensation.
However, this is not a discrimination between different
employers, but merely a contingency on the happening
of which all employers alike become subject to the requirements of the law. All are required to contribute,
under identical conditions, to these special funds. State
Indust. Comm. v. Newman, supra, p. 368.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of New York is

Affirmed.

