OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
500

505 .1

Syllabus.

established and deqtared to be.the true boundary between
the States of Texas and Oklahoma along the paxt of the
Red River designated in such repor, subject howev.er to
such changes a .=ayhereafter be wrought by the natural and gradual processes known as erosion and accretion.as

specified in the second, third- and fourth paragraphs of
the decree rendered herein March 12, 1928, 261 U S. 340.

It is flirther ordered -that the Clerk of this-Coirt
do
transmit to the Chief- Magistrates of the States of Texas.
and 0klahoma.xopiss of this decree, duly authenticated
under the seal of this Court, together wit'cojies of the"
maps which accompanied the rep6rfof-the commissioners.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQU!Jl=.

,No. 15, Original. Order "11xing tit3le for' fling suggestions, etc.,
entered May 5,1924; argued oh suggestions, etc., May 26, 1924.Dedided June 9, 1924..
1. Where a receivership was necessary for. the protection of oil and
gas lands .whose ownership depended upon the establist.n~ent of
an interstate boundary,-the primary object of the suit,--and the
bbundary, as finally established, lay-between the. lines. claimed by
opposing parties, held, that the general expenses of the receifership
were alpjortionable against the several funds derived by fhe re'peiver from operation of oil and gas 'wells, whether on one side.ok
the other of the Vouiidary established, and that funds arising from wells operated-by claimants under the receiver's supervision, causing less expiense, shbuld 'be assessed on a lower basig'than funds
••
arising .from 'wells operated by him directly. P. 507.
2. In -appoi ioning general receivership- expenses agiinsf funds "de
rived by the receiver from oil and gas wells ofierated under his
supervision bylessees of the-owners, 7 dd, that the chatte should.
be against each fund as an entirety and lie deducted from the. "owner's and lessee's shares thereof pro raia. -P. 511.
3. The expense or loss of work done by the. receiver in this cause on
unremunerative wells in the "River'Bed Arte--said -rea bel6ng-

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1923. Counsel for Parties.

265 U.S.

ing wholly to the United States,--may be charged against receivership funds derived from remunerative wells in that area. P.. 511.
4. Trespassers who drilled productive and unproductive wells for oil
in land of the United States before it was put into the receivership,

have no equitable.claim to be reimbursed for the cost of the iinproductive out of funds derived by the receiver from the productive

wels.' Id.
5. The order hereinbefore made authorizing the receiver, where any
well in the said "River Bed Area" was drilled to production prior
to the receivership, to repay the cost of the work, (see 256 U. S.
607) should be amended to includd, a certain well .which .was excluded from the order. P. 512.
6. Where private claimants drilled productive oil wells on land afterwards taken into a receivership and adjudged the exclusive property of the United States, held, that a person who, as contractor,
-participated in drilling one of the wells and whose equipment, so
used, was taken and sold by the receiver, was entitle& to an order
authorizing the receiver to pay him the proceeds of such sale; but
that,a wrong committed against him by one of the claimants before
the receivership in taking forcible possession of the well and converting part of his equipment could not be adjudicated in this
litigation and'compensated from funds derived by the receiver
from t!he wells claimed by the aggressor. .Id.

UP4 consideration 6f certain qfiestions arising upon a
repdir of the recefver in this cause.
Mr.W. A. Ledbetter, with whom Mr. H. L. Stuart,
Mr. .. B. Bell, Mr. i. 0. Beal and Mr.Edward H.
Changller were on the briefs, for Sinclair Oil &'Gas Company, Oklahoma Petroleum & Gasoline Company, Na-

tional Oil Conipany and Arkansas City Pipe 'Line
Company.
Mr. A. H. Carriggn,with whom Mr. J.W. Baiey,Mr.
Leslie Humphrey, Mr. A. H...ritan,Mr. W. H. Bonner
and Mr. W. C. Witcher were on the briefs, for certain

owners of patented 'Tnd.
Mr.: R'i. .Wardfor Kirby Petroleum .Company.
Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant, to the Attorney
General, writi whom "Mr.Attorney Geieral Stone and.

-OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
505

507

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck were on the brief, for te
United States.
.Mr..E. P. Hill for the State of Oklahoma.
Mr. E. E. Blake and Mr. R. L. Cole for Grand Oil and
Developing Company.
Mr. Leslie Hzumphrey for C. T. Taylor.
Mr. W. A. Keeling, Attorney General of the State-of
Texas, for defendant.
Suggestions were also filed by the following: Mr. Jesse
B. Roote, for Burke Divide Oil Company Consolidated-;
Mr. Hf.Cline, for.Tom Testerman" Mi. K. C. Barkley,
for 3. G. Leavell, Receiver of the General Oil Company,
and National Petroleum & Refining Company;,Mr. Ben
Bruce Blakeney and Mr. FrancisMarion Etheridge, fpr
. B. Lawton, and Ewing Clagett, Receiver fdr Delta Oil
Company;*Mr. H. Rozier Dulany, Jr.,and Mr. Alexander
H. McCormick, for the Continental Oil. Company; Mr.
Bernard Martin and Mr. Ben G. Oneal, for the S6uthwest Petroleum Company, the Buckeye Petroleum Company, and James L. Duffy; Mr. William M. Cannon, for
the Wichita Petroleum Companly; and Mr. T. P. Gore,
for the Melish Consolidated Placer Oil Mining Association and the Double Triangle Petroleum Association et aL"

MIR. Jusricz VAN DEVAmR delivered .the opinion of
the Court.
By the order of May 5 last, ante, 76,- certain questions
suggested in the twelfth report of the receiver in this case
were propounded to the parties-in interest.- Many responses were received, a hearing on them was had, and
the Court is now prepared to announce its ruling.
The first question is, to what extent and in what man"ner shall- the .general -expenses of the receivership be

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

spread over the several impounded funds in the receiver's
custody?

Two areas are within the receivership, one designated
as the soufh half of the river bed and the other as the
flood plain. -Thelatter confits of a.stretch of low groiud
between the river bed and the Texas bluffs, and is divided
into several relatively small tracts. The impounded
funds consist, in the main,-of proceeds from oil and gas
taken, during the receivership, from wells In the two
areas. Accurate accounts have been kepi showing the
production, proceeds, and special expenses pertaining td
each well. But as yet there has been no allocation or
apportionment of the general expenses.'
At the inception of the receivership both areas were in
controversy.. Texas and ei grantees were claiming title
.o both; the United States was deIng the same, and Oklahoma wai claining title to the river-bed -area. -These.
proprietary dontroversies'were largely ixcidental -to a
-pronounced cohtroversy. respecti.g.the true boundary
between the tw6 States. Texas was insising .that the
boundary was along the middle of the river; Oklahoma.
and the United States that it was along the foot of the
T&as bliffs. All of,the controversies were real and were
earnestly pressed on the Court's attenti6n. In the progress of th6 case the -Court has considered and decided
all of them. As a result it now is settled that the inter-.
state boundary is not along the middle of the river nor
along. the foot of the texas bluffs but on and along the
soutl b k of the..river*'thaj the flood-plain area belongs
to Texms or'her grantees, that th river-bed area belongs
to fte. United Siates, and. tiat Oklahofna.'has no .pro-.,
prietfr interest in either'area.
- .Mos~
-of- he-xlver-bed, wells were drilled and brought
in by the ve'ceiver; all'wells in that area have been oper1ited byhim,'and he now holds the net prAceeds derived
h.roiri
them.-:. M,..-of, -the .flood-plain vells\were drilled

.. OKLAIEOMA v. TEXAS.
505-

509"

Opinion of tho Court:

and brought. in before the receiveraip by claimants
asserting grants from the State of, Texas or leasehold
rights under such grants. Under a pro-ision in the original receivership order (par. 4, 252 U. S. 374) and a provision in 1i succeeding order (par: 2, 253 U. S. 466) most
of the flood-plain wells hive been operated b4 such
claimants and their assigns under arrangements whereby*
the receiver was to direct and supervise the operation,
was td receive and hold ihree-sixteenths of the gross proceeds, and could take oVer the operation if the arr4ngement was not respected. The receiver now holds the
accumulated three-sixteenths. of such proceeds. A few
exceptional flood-plain wells-we mean wells south of the
interstate boundary as now established-have been operated throughout by the receiver and he now holds the
fiilnet proceeds derived from them.
The parties in interest differ about the apportionment
to be made*of 'he general. expe.nses. The Texas claimants, both .owners and lessees, take the position that, as
they have prevailed in the controversy over the flood
plain, the funds derived from that area should be"ex-*
empted from the apportionment, On the other hand,
the United State insists that the apportionment should
extend to all the funds; flood-pIain as well as river-bed,
and be on a pro rata, basis. There is also a difference
among the -Texas climant, in that the owners insist
that, if the apportionment be made t; cover the floodplain funls, these expenses should be charged against the
moneys going tb the lessees, while the latter ask that the
charge be. against the moneys going to the owners.
Obviously we are not here concerned with a situation
where the outcome of the matter i litightion should 'be
given controlling significance. The controyersy over the
flood-plain was real, as much so as that over the river-bkd
area; and there was ample reason for icluding botft
areas in the receivershi. Its.purpose was to conse.,-$he

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

oil and gas values in those axeas for the benefit of whoever might prove to be entitled to them; and that purpose has been accomplished. That the Texas claimants
have prevailed as to the flood-plain is no reason for exempting it from the general expenses. A like reason
would require that the river bed be also exempted, for
as to it the United States prevailed. The usual rule in
such receiverships is to charge the general expenses ratably against all the impounded funds, unless there be
special circumstances making it .inequitable to do so.
.Here-there are no circumstances calling for an exemption
-of the flood-plain funds; but -there are circumstances
making, it equitable to charge against them a smaller
proportion of the general expenses than is charged against
the Hiver-bed funds. - Taking the full period of the receivership, the work and regponsibiity of the receiver's
force has been perceptibly less in respect of the floodplain wells than in respect of those in the river bed..
Fairly estimated, we think the difference has been about
one to two on each dollar impounded. But this difference in favor of the flood-plain wells applies only to such
as h.ve bedn'.operated by private claimants. The exceptional ones operated by the receiver are in this particular on substantially the same footing as the river-bed
wells.
We conclude that the general expenses should be
spread over all the funds in such way that the charge
against each dollar impounded from river-bed wells, or
from flood-plain wells operated by the receiver--in all
of which the impounding has covered the full proceeds,
less special expenses,-shall be double what is charged
against each dollar impounded from flood-plain wells
operated by private claimants,--where the impounding
has covered only three-sixteenths of the proceeds.
As to -the Texas owners and lessees, we perceive no
ground for maling one rather than the other bear the

OKAHOMA v. TEXAS.
505

'Opinion of the Court.

charge for general expenses. The interests of both have
been conserved, and the charge to be made against the
total moneyi going to both in any instance should be
deducted ratably from-what goes to each separately.*
The second question is, how shall the expense or 16ss
incident to work done by the receiver on river-bed wells
which proved unremunerative be distributed or cared for?
The river-bed area is a single tract belonging to the
United States. Others have no present interest in it.
The United States concedes that the expense or loss indicated may. be charged against funds derived from remunerative wells in that area. We think the concession
is right and that effect should, be given to it.
The third question is, whether the order of' June'1,
1921, 256 U. S. 607,-authorizing the receiver, where
any, river-bed well was dri.'led and"brought into production prior to the receivership, to reimburse the operator
for the actual cost of that work out of the proceeds from
such well,-shall be enlarged so as to permit the receiver,
where the same operator had drilled another river-bed
well which proved unremunerative, to rei aburse hinv for
the cost of- the latter out of the proceeds of the remunerative well. The United States objects to the change
sugg~sted, and we think it should not be made. %.Al1drilling for oil in the river-bed area was without right and
without encouragement from the United States, the
owner of the soil. Apart from the trespass involved, the"
operator assumed'the risk of the venture; and if the well"
proved unremunerative it was'his loss. On n'o.equitable
principle can he ask tobe reimbursed. The order referred
to is confined to wells which were utilized-by the receiver
and enriched the estate in his custody. Even in -that
form the order isone of marked liberality, considering
the entire absence of. any right to drill in the river-bed
area. The situation requires, we think, that each well
be regarded in this matter as a distinct venture.

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

The fourth question is, should the order jtist mentioned
be changed so as to cover river-bed well No. 139, known
as the Burk-Senator well?
Thid well was expressly "excepted from the order because there was a bitter 'controversy sis to who drilled
it and brought it into production. The well had been'
drilled and was producing oil when the receiver took
possession.' It is the only one of that class where .the
operator has not been reimbursed. We think the excepting clause should be elimin.ted from the order to the
end that the receiver may effect an equitable adjustment.
of t .ematter, if the contesting operators are so disposed.'
Two phases of another matter connected with that well
should be disposed of at this time. Under a contract
with one of the contestinj operators Tom Testerman participated in drilling the well. -Some equipment belonging
to him and used in that work came into the possession of
the receiver and afterwards was sold by the receiver.
Testerman asks that the receiver be authorized to pay
over to him the moneye received for the property. That
authority should be given. Testernian also asserts that
the Bass Petroleum Company, another of-th'e contesting. operators, forcibly, took possession of the well and
converted a part of his equipment to its use, and he asks
that.he be reimbursed for that wrong out of impounded
funds derived from flood-plain wills claimed by that company. This request cannot be entertained. The right to
rediess for such a wrong, 'committed prior to the receivership, is not a matter which can be considered or deter.mined in this suit.

