78

OCTOBER'TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case..

265 U.S.

NEWTON, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL., v. CONSOLI-.
DATED GAS COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF

FOR THE SOUTE

r

UNITED STATES

DISTRCT OF NEW YORK.

No. 565. Argued March 4, 1924.--Decide d May 12, 1924. 1. Where a New York Commission, made a defendant in the District Court, was later abolished by c. 134, New York Laws 1921,
held, that its joinder, or exclusion by summons an& severance,
was not necessary to sustain an appeal by its codefendants from an
'order taxing costs. "P. 81.
2. An order of the District Court taxing costs in an equity suit
otherwise ended, has the finality requisite for- review by appeal.
P. 82.
3. The rule of the federal" courts forbidding appeals from decrees
for costs only does not apply when the power of the court to
assess'the items in question, and not merely the ekercisa of its
discretion, is in issue. Id.
4. The District Court, finding a statutory gas rate confiscatory, en-.
joined public officials from enforcing it, but, as, a-condition, requir d the plaintiff gas company to impound with a special master
all sums collected from consumers in excess of the rate, pending de-termination of the case on appeal, and, later, for the protection
of the pdiitiff and to benefit consumers, permitted the plaintiff to
withdraw thd fund so accumulated by substituting surety bonds
conditioned for its return with substantial interest should the
rate be'upheld. The injunction having been affirmed, Aeld, that.
the premiums paid for the bonds were taxable, and rightly taxed,
against the defendants, as costs i conforniity with a usage of that
district. P. 84.
291 Fed. 704, affirmed.

Aepp.Ax from a decree of the District Court taaing costs.
For other phases of' the suit, see 258 U. S. 165i 259.U. S.
101, and 264 U. S. 571.'
Mr.Harry Hertzoff, with whom Mr. George P. Nicliolso, Mr. Carl herma, Attorney 'General of the State "of

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.

78

Argument for Appellants.

New York, Mr. Wilber W. Chambers and Mr. James A.
Donnelly were on the brief, for appellants.
This is a final order within the decisions. "Odell v. Batterman, 223 Fed. 292; Central Trust Co. v. United States
Light & Heating Co., 223 Fed. 420; Georgia Railway &
Power Co. v.Decatur,262 U. S. 432.
This Court has jurisdiction of the entire case and of all
questions involved in it. Farmers'Loan & Tmnst Co., Petitioner,129 U. S. 206; Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164 U.
S. 319; Ex partd Hughes,114 U. S. 548.
The court below had the right, in granting the injunetion,-to direct the impounding of the difference between
the statutory rate and that allowed under the injunction.
There is no rule of this Court authorizing or permitting
sums paid for 'surety bonds, to be taxed as costs. Rev.
Stats., §§ 823, 983; Edison v. American Mutoscope Co.,
117 Fed. 192. An examination of The lolund, 181 Fed.
643; The Hurstdale, 171 Fed. 607; and The John D:
Dailey, 158 Fed. 642, discloses that the reason for allowing premiums on surety bonds was that they were given iM
accordance with Rule XXI of the Admiralty Rules for the
Southern District of New York.
In Lee InjectorMfg. Co. v..Penberthy Injector Co.,.109
Fed. 964, the taxation' of surety premiums was disallowed. See. In re Michigan Central R. R. Ca., 124 Fed.
727; The Governor Anes, 187 Fed. 48; The Texas, 226
Fed. 897; Parkcersonv. Borst, 256 Fed. 827.
The substitution of surety bonds in place of cash was
solely for the bene'fit of appellee, and for that reason the
item should not have been allowed.
The appellants have already had substaitigl posts im-.
posed upon them by reason of the order permitting appellee to take down the impounded moneys.
Had appellee 6o~perated with the appellan6 in advancing the appeal there would have been no necessity for expending part of the sums for premiums on surety bonds.

-

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S,

Mr.John A. Garver,for appellee, submitted.
MR. CnmF JusTiCE TAF delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an equitable action to enjoin the continued
enforcement of c. 125 of the Laws of New York of 1906,
which fixed at 80 cents a thousand feet the price at which
gas was to be furnished to. private consumers. in the
various boroughs in the City of New York, on the ground
that the rate was confiscatory and violated the rights of
the Company under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The main controversy was settled in favor of the Company by this Court in March, 1922. 258 U.. S. 165. Upon
another appeal, we directed a reduction "of the Master's
fees by $28,750. 259 U. S. 101. When the case reached
the District Court for further proceedings, the defendants
made a motion to retax costs, objecting to half a dozen,
items charged. The court allowed certain exceptions but
overruled others. The only one overruled and here insisted on is for $76,086.00 for premiums paid by the
Company to surety companies for bonds securing the repayment of a large amount of money impounded with the
special master.
When the District Court found that a rate of 80 cents
was confiscatory, it granted an injunction to prevent the
Attorney General of the State, the District Attorney of
New York County, and the Public Service Cbmmission
from enforcing such a rate, but as a condition of such
injunction, it required the Company to impound with a
special master all sums charged for gas to consumers over
and above the 80-cent rate until the issue could be finally
settled in this Court. This Court, although it found
error in certain otherlimitations of the order, held .that
so much of it was within the court's discretion. 258
U. S. 165. The plaintiff, after the order of impounding'

NEWTON v: CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
78

81

Opinion of the Court.

wai made, secured leave from the court to substitute the
surety bonds in lieu of cash. In granting this leave, the
District Judge said:
"The plaintiff urges with force, I think, that to impound all the.moneys over eighty cents for a.period perhaps of a year will cause loss both to itself and to the
consumers. It suggests that it have the right to substitute adequate securities. The best that the special
master can get on the deposits is probably three and a
quarter per cent; the plaintiff if. required to finance its
temporary requirements must pay much more, it says
fourteen'per cent. In any case it will sustain a loss which
will profit no one but the banks, so far as appears. I see
no advantage in insisting upon impounding the moneys
if adequate security can be otherwise- provided."
The bonds were required to secure not only the cash
for which they were substituted but interest at seven
per cent. to become part of the fund. The court continued:
11 1 have required a substantial rate of interest because
the plaintiff will be in dffect using the consumers' money.
On the one hand the consumer profits by getting more
than he could from the banks, on the other the plaintiff
profits by being relieved from high rates of.interest. The
rate at which the plaintiff has sold its bonds is seven per
cent. and on short financing the rates are much higher.
I think that seven per cent. should be the rate, even
though the plaintiff must pay a premium to get the bond;
it will recover back all that the consumers are not eventually entitled to."
From the final decree of the District Court fixing the
costs, an appeal was taken to this Court. To that appeal
the Public Service Commission of New York, as defendant in the suit, was not made a party and no summons
and severance was issued against it. Acc6rdingly the

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

*appeal was dismissed in the following per curiam, 264
U. S. 571:

"Dismissed for the want of jurisdiction upon authority
of Mastersonv. Herndon, 10 Wall. 416; Hardeev. Wilson,
146 U. S. 179, 180; Sipperley v. Smith, 155 U. 8. 86, 89;
Maytin v. Vela,216 U. S.'598, 601."
Upon a petition for rehearing the appellants bring to
the knowledge of this Court that by c.. 134 of the Laws
of 1921, the Public Service Commission for the First District which was here concerned was abolished, and that,
therefore, the appellants were not required by summons
and severance to exclude from the future capacity to ap.peal, a defunct state board originally joined with them asa
codefendant. Mercantile Trust Co. v..Kanawha & Ohio
Ry. Co., 58 Fed. 6, 14. We think the abolition of the
Public Service Commission made it .unnecessary to make
it a party to this appeal and that the dismissal heretofore
entered for lack of service of a summons and severance
upon it should be set aside.
The appellee insists that the appeal must be dismissed,
first, because it is not from'a final decree, and,second, be. cause-no appeal lies from a decree for costs alone.
First.. If the subject matter is appealable at all, there
would seem *tobe no doubt that the decree has all the
characteristics of finalit r. An execution can issue at once
to collect the costs-as taxed, including the item:here complained of. Trustees v. Jreenough, 105 U. S. 527;
Farmeri"Loan & Trust Co., Petitioner,129 U. S. 206;
In re Michigan CentralR. R. Co., 124 Fed. 727, 731.
Second. Is the order of the District Court for this controverted item appealable? There is no doubt that, as a
general rule, an appeal does not lie from a decree solely
for costs, and if an appeal on the merits be taken and
affirmed, it will not be reversed on a question of costs.
Canterv. American Insurance Co., 3 Pet.'307, 319; Elastic 'Fabrics(o. v. Smith, 100 U. S. 110, 112; Paper-Bag

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED -GAS CO.
78

83

Opinion of the Courb.

Cases, 105 U. S. 766, 772; Ciy Bankc of Fort Worth v.
Hunter, 152 U. S. 512, 5i6; Sbzart v. Boulware, 133 U. S.

78; Du. Bois v. Kirk, 158 U. S. 58, 67; Citizens' Bank v.
Cannon, 164 U. S. 319, 323; Wingert v. First National
Bank, 223 U. S. 670, 672.
. Questions of costs in admiralty and equity are discretionary and the action. of the court is presumptively
correct. United States v. Brig Malek Adhel, 2 How.
210, 237; The, Scotland, 118 U. S. 507, 519. -The allowance of costs in the federal courts rests not upon express
statutory enactment by Congress, but upon usage long
continued and confirmed by implication from provisions in
many statutes. Ex parte Peterso?, 253 U. S. 300, 316;
and see Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling & Belmont.Bridge Co.,
18 How. 460.
The-rule forbidding appeals from decrees for costs only
is easily deducible from the discretion vested in the trial
court in fixing them and the better opportunity of that
court to exercise that discretion from its greater intiiacy
with detils of the pleadings, hearings, and orders in the
case. - When the power of the court to assess bosts against
either party is not in dispute, or the mere amount to be
fixed is in issue, appeals on such questions alone are not
allowed. But the rule is not absolute and shoulf not be
enforced wheA the trial court assumes the power to assess
as cdsts against a fund or a party expenditures of a class
not legally hssessable as such.. Where a question of this
kind is made, appeals have been. allowed. Thus in
Trustees v. Greenough, 105"U. S. 527, an appeal was
allowed from a decree in equity solely for costs when the.
question was whether they could be properly paid out of a
fund in the control of the'court. So in In re Michigan
Central R. B. Co., 124 Fed. 727, an interyener was allowed to appeal from-a decree of i trial court, allowing
costs in favor of the clerk, when it was objected that'
neither by statute nor general law could such costs be

.84

. OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

"265U. S.

allowed by the court in favor of the clerk. The question
is fully considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
*Sixth Circuit in an. opinion by Judge Lurton, Mfterwards
Mr. Justice Lurton, of this Court. The many cases cited
*in which appeals from decrees for costa had been denied
were distinguished as involving a question not of positivelaw, but of discretion. We think the distinciton'madein
th.t.case a sound one and that as the question is here-presented, the appeal is a proper one.
The question is whether.premiums for bonds paid by a
party litigant to preserve his rights and save him from loss
under the orders of court pending the litigation, can be
taxed as costs against the defeated party, There hasbeen
considerable difference of opinion among the District
Courti and the Circuit Courts of Appeals "onthis subjed.
This Court has never considered it. The South Portland,
.95 Fed. (D. (3.) 295; Jacobsen v. Lewis Klondike Expedition o., 112 Fed. 73 (C. C. A., Ninth Circuit); Edison
v. American Mutoscope Co. (C. .C.), 117 Fed. 192; The
John D. Dailey (D. C.), 158 Fed. 642; The Benciff (D.
C.), 158 Fed. 377; The Hurstdale (D. C.), 171 Fed. 607;
The Volund (C. C. -A., Second Circuit), 181 Fed. 643;
Jones v. Edward B.- Smith Co. (C. C.), 183 Fed. 990;
The.Europe (C. C. A., Ninth Circuit), 190 Fed. 475, 481,
are cases in which either by rule of court or through'usage,
such costs haye been taxed in admiaty cases or equity
causes. In Lee Injector Mfg. Co. v. Penberthy Injector
Co. (C. C. A., Sixth Circuit), 109 Fed. 964; The Governor
Ames (Ct C. A., First Circuit), 187. Fed. 40, 48; -The
Texas (C. C. A., Third Circuit), 226 Fed. 897, 905; Parkerson v. .Borst (C. C. A., Fifth Circuit), 256 Fed. 827;
In re Hoyt, 119 Fed. 987 (D. C.), and in The Willowdene,
97 Fed. 509-(D. C.), it is held that wherd the disbuiement
is not made as the result of any rule of practice and there
is no statwte, rule, or usage by which it is made a part of
the taxable costs of the case, it cannot be allowed. In"

NEWTON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
78

-

85

Opinion of the Court.

The Tezas, supra, the Circiit Court of Appeals of the
Third Circuit, after expressing its approval of the view
that a rule of court or a practice equivalent thereto is
-necessary to justify the taxation'of such costs, said:
"But we may also say that we ttink such a. rnle or
practice has become so desirable that we feel confident the
court below wl take an. early opportunity to conform its
*procedure in this respect to the custom prevailihg in other'
districts."
TVe District Judge, in passing on the issue, said that
it had been the custom in the Second Circuit to allow as
costs, premiums on stipulations given to release vessels
from arrst, .citing The Vok.nd, supra; The Hurstdvle,
supra; The Johan D. Dailey, supra; that Judge Lacoinbe
in Edison,v. AmericanutoscopeCo.; supra,had allowed
as costs premiums upon a supersedeas bond in an equity
case, and that there had -been a uniform usage for the
fourteeen years during which he had sat.in that District
to allow such items.
We think that under the usage thus shown in the Second Circuit, the District Court had powei to assess these
1remiums as costs in.this suit in equit. It is apparent
from the circumstances already set forth" that the-order
made by the District-Coirt under which these bonds were
secured and substituted for cash was not only in ihe interest of the Company. but of the consumers in .whos.e
behalf the defendantg belowwere contending. Had the
state authorities prevailed in this Court, they woild have
secur a from the surety. companies on these bonds for
distribution among the customers not only the amount,
of money -impounded but. also seven per cent. interest
thereon to compensate them for the tWring of their money
and the 'delay in its return. As the cause went against
them, it was not- an abuse of discretion to hold that the
defendants- who have conducted the litigation and loft
should pay the costs of an arrangement made in their iterest, because of ;an expens with which the Company

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

had been unjustly burdened. It may be that in a circuit
and district where no usage or rule of court exists, such
costs may not be taxed. We are not called upon to decide
that. It is enough, that we may decide this appeal, to
hold that it was not an abuse of discretion or a violation
of law for the District Court in the Second Circuit -to
allow the -item.
By the Act of August 13,1894, c. 282,28 Stat. 279, Congress has made elaborate provision for the safe use -of
surety companies as security upon boirds required in cburt
and other proceedings, and while it does not exclude ifidi-vidual sureties, itoffers' most convenient and stable
means of obtaining indemnity against the default of
parties. This is much to be prpferred to individual sureties because a properly conducted surety comeany'makes
it its business promptly to investigate and to meet its
.liabilities. Acceptance-of the service of such companies
Iis, of course, uipon the basis of a regular rate of compensation, and where a party litigant. has, because of the
claim of the opposing party, been .compelled t6 furniih
such security, and it turns out that it was wrongly required, a rule of court or usage which iiAposes the expense
of the securiti on th6 defeated party is not unreasonable.
•The decree of the DistrictCourt is affirmed.

EX PARTE: IN
'TE
MATTER OF SKINNER &
EDDY CORPORATION, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDhAMUS

OR PROHIBITION TO

THE COURT OF CLAIMS..

No. 28, Original. Argued, on return to rule to-show cause, April 14,
1924.-Decided May 12, 1924.
1. The right of a plaintiff to dimi a suit, if it exists, is absolutq,
--independent f the reasons offered and not affected by conceal-ment or misstatement of -reasons. P. 93.

