CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT
OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

CUNNINGHAM, TRUSTEE OF PONZI, v. BROWN.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 213. Argued March 12, 1924.-Decided April 28, 1924.
1. Where a person obtained money by fraudulent representations from
many others upon his time notes for the amounts borriowed and fifty
per cent., but, to stimulate public confidence, gave it out that he
"would return the amount borrowed on any note at any time
before its maturity and pursued that practice, held, that lenders
who took advantage of this offer and secured repayment shortly
before his bankruptcy, when they had reason to believe him insolvent, were not thereby rescinding their contracts for the fraud
and reclaiming their 'own funds, but were creditors equally with the
others who filed their claims for reimbursement in the bankruptcy
'proceedings; and that the repayments thus made were illegal preferences recoverable by the bankrupts trustees. P. 10.
2. Facts held to sustain a finding that parties obtaining repayments
had reason to believe the payor insolvent. Id.
3. Where the funds of a bankrupt consisted entirely of money borrowed from many persons by fraud, a lender who rescinded and
secured repayment out of the same bank account in which his and
other like loans %reredeposited by the bankrupt, could not justify
the repayient, against the charge of illegal preference, upon the
theory of a resulting trust4, or lien, if the repayment was made after
the account had been exhausted by payments to other lenders and
after it had been repleni hed by the bankrupt with other portions
of the borrowed funds. P. 11.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondents..

265 U. S.

4. In such a situation, the ruling in CMyto's Case, 1 Merivale, 572,
that defrauded claimants were entitled to be paid inversely to the
order in which their moneys went into a common fund, has no

application; and likewise the ruling in Kndchbu v. Haet,L. R.
13.Ch. D. 696, that where a fund is composed partly of a defrauded
.laimant's money and. partly of that of the wrongdoer, it wil be

presumed that, in the fluctuations of the fund, it was the wrozngdoers "purpose to draw out first the money to which he was

honestly entitled, and that the claimant may assert an. equitable
lien on the residu6. P. 12.
5. A minor is not exempt from defeat of an unlawful preference
under § 60b of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 13.
284 Fed. 936, reversed.
CnmTIonaI to review decrees of the Circuit Coirt of
Appeals affirming decrees of the District Court which
dismissed the bills in six suits, .brought by thetrustees of
a bankrupt, under § 60b of the Bankruptcy Act, to recover
payments made by the bankrupt, upon the ground that
they were unlawful preferences.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen,, with whom Mir. William
R. Sears and Mr. Clarence M. Gordon. were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. John H. Devine, with whom Mr. Walter A. Buie,
Mr. Edward A. Counihan, Jr., and Mr. Joseph P. Dexter
were on the brief, for CrockIord, Murphy and Holbrook,
respondents.
The fraud in these cases consisted in Ponzi's receiving
the respondent's money when he was hopelessly insolvent,
he knowing the fact and concealing his condition from
the respondents, innocent depositors. In. re Stewart, 178
Fed. 463, and cases there cited.
When the respondents' money was thus obtained, it
was impressed with a trust for their benefit which attached to the general fund with which Ponzi's moneys
were minglsd, and this trust followed that fund so long
as the trust moneys were not exhausted. In re Stewart,

CUNNINGHAM v. BROWN.
1

Argument for Respondents.

supra; Cheney v. Dickinson, 172 Fed. 109; Friend v.
Talcott, 228 U. S. 27; St. Louis & San FranciscoBy. Co.
v. Johnston, 133 U. S. 566; In re Hamilton Carpet Co.,
117 Fed. 774; In re Gold, 210 Fed. 410.
The respondents would have the right to have- their
money back even if Ponzi had not deposited the identical
money he received from them but had substituted other
moneys belonging to himself. Ndtional Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54.
In these cases, however, it is clear and undisputed that
the very moneys of which Ponzi defrauded the respondents were deposited by him in the Hanover Trust Company and that .the checks they received and cashed were
drawn upon his account in that bank.
The right of the respondents to recover their property
cannot be impaired by the trustee. Bussing v. Rice, 2
Cush. 48; Cf. Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution, 18 Wall.
375; Goodwin v. Massachusetts Loan Co., 152 Mass. 189.
See also Peoples NationalBank v. Mulholland, 228 Mass.
152; Watchmaker v. Barnes,259 Fed. 783.
Respondents were notcreditors. Richardson v. Shaw,
209 U. S. 365; Donaldson v. Farwell 93 U. S. 631.
Ponzi stood to them in a relation of a trustee ex maleficio. Pomeroy'g Eq. Juris., 2d ed., § 1053.
The respondents never submitted themselves to the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, and the monej which
they received was not impressed with any lien or trust in
favor of the trustees in bankruptcy.
If the respondepts were never creditors of Ponzi's estate
in bankruptcy,'.bht merely cestuis que trustent, their
taking back theirmoneys out of Ponzi's hands in no manner diminished his estate.
Indeed, it seems from all the eviuace that until the
election of some of Ponzi's customers to prove their claims
in bankruptcy, there was no property in the estate upon
wnich the bankruptcy court could lay hold. UAtil then,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

265 U. S.

all the property Ponzi had consisted of trust money. Certainly the bankrupt's estate was not diminished by the
payments to the respondents.
There can be no preference without a depletion of the
bankrupt's estate. In re Schwab, 258 Fed. 772. See
Gorman-v. Littlefield, 229 U. S. 19; Bankruptcy A~t, as
amended June 25, 1910, § 60 (a) and (b); Putnam v.
United Trust Co., 223 Mass. 199; Rogers v. American
Halibut Co., 216 Mass. 227.
The only evidence on which the petitioner can rely to
establish that the respondents had reasonable. cause to
believe a preference would be effected, is the newspaper
report. That the respondents, or any of them, saw that
report is purely conjectural. Rogers y. American Halibut
Co., supra.
The following cases,. although decided before the
amendment of 1910 to the Bankruptcy Act, seem to be
in point upon the question as to what constitutes reasonable cause to believe that the debtor was insblvent and
that a preference would be effected by payment to the
creditors. Grant v. National Bank, 97 U. S. 80; In re
First National Bank of Louisville, 155 Fed. 100; Curtiss
v. Kingman, 159 Fed. 880; Tumlin v. Bryan, 165 Fed. 166.
The burden was on the trustees. Importers & Traders
National Bank v. Peters, 123 N. Y. 272; NationaZ Bank
v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Southern Cotton Oil Co.
v. 01lliotte, 218 Fed. 567; In re Mulligan, 116 Fed. 715;
Etlictt v. Kuhl, 16 N. J. Eq. 333; Hewitt v. Hayes, 205
Mass. 356; Smith v. MV1ottley, 150 Fed. 266; Ryder v.
Hathaway. 21 Pick. 298; Tumlin v. Bryan, 165 Fed. 166;
In re Leech, 171 Red. 622; Turner v. Schaeffer, 249 Fed.
654.
1wn, respondent.
Mr. Louis Goldberg foi
The trustees must show by a preponderance of proof,
that the money transiarred was the property of Ponzi,

.CUNNINGHAM v. BROWN.
1

-5

Argument for Resp6ndent.

and that there thereby was consummated a. depletion of
the funds available for general creditors. The presumption is, where money charged with a trust ex walefido is
mingled with the general funds of the debtor, that the
debtor first exhausts his own before paying out trust
funds.
The defendant having exercised his right to rescind,
the money was his own property, and he could maintain

his title against all persons except one receiving it for
value bona fide without notice. Atood v. Dearborn, 1
Allen, 483; National Bank v. Insurance.fo., 104 U. S.
54; Bussing v. Rice, 2 Cush. 48; Tiffany v. Bo6atman's
Institution,18 Wall. 375; Goodwin v. Massachusetts Loan
Co., 152 Mass: 189; Peoples NationalBank v. Mulholland,
228 Mass. 152; Watchmaker v. Barnes, 259 Fed. 783.
-Having received back his own property, Brown is not
a. creditor, and consequently the transfer did not operate
to diminish the.bankrupt's estate. Hewitt v. Hayes, 205

Mass. 56.
The suit of the plaintiff lacks the ground of liability
that the person receiving the transfer had reasonable
ground for believing that preference had been made.
The rescinding party has merely exercised the right of
reclamation. Consequently he is chargeable with no
kmowledge as to his relative rights as against persons
who, as against him, have no rights at- all.
Granted that the defendant Brown had reasonable
cause to believe that Ponzi was insolvent, .and that he,
Brown, had obtained a greater proportion than those who
proved their claims in ltankruptcy, this does not show
reasonable cause to believe that a preference has been
made.
This case, as.dealing with a preference, is not a bankruptcy case ptoper. Loveland, Bankruptcy, 4th ed.,
§ 541; Pond v. -New York Exchange Bank, 124 Fed. 992:
Bankruptcy Act, § 60b.

6

OCTOBER TERI, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

265 U. S.

This not being a strictly federal question, the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals will give effect
to the common law of Massachusetts, the State in Which
the alleged preference was made. This fundamental
*principle is ignored by the petitioners, who in effect ask
this Court to overrule the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Firsf Circuit in Empire State Surety
Co. v. Carrol County, 194 Fed. 593.
layton.s Case, 1 Merivale, 572, is inapplicable.. Hewitt
v; Hayes, 205 Mass. 356; Empire State Surety Co. v.
Carrol County, supra. In re Mulligan, 116 Fed. 715,
distinguished. -See Knatchbull v. -Halleft, 13 Ch. Div.
696; NationalBank v. Insurande Co., 104 U. S. 5
The main issue becomes a moot question- as to the
infant defendant, Brown. MacGrealv. Taylor, 167 U. S.
688; Knudson v. General Motorcycle Co., 230 Ass. 54;
Jacobs v. Saperstein, 225 Mass. 300; Rogers v. Am-erican
Halibut Co., 216 Mass. 227; Hewitt v. Boston Straw
Board Co., 214 Mass. 260; Cohen v. Small, 120 App. Div.
211; Reber v. ElZis Bros., 185 Fed. 313.
To repeat, a preference siit is not a bankruptcy proceeding. The statute merely lays down the terms on
which the right of action is predicated, leaving the rest
to the substantive law of the forum. Christopher v.
Norvell, 201 U. S. 216, distinguished.
By demanding and receiving hfs money back, Brown
was only exercising his right of rescission as a minor,
under the age of twenty-one; and therefore no transfer
was effected.
It is obvious that the dealings between Ponzi and
Brown amounted to a contract, and a contract not for
necessaries.
A contract of this nature -the defendant had a legal
right to cancel at any time during his minority, and a
reasonable time thereafter.
Brown avoided the contract by withdrawing his money,
thus leaving all the parties concerned in'the same status

CUNNINGHAM v.

ROWN.

Opinion of the Court.
as if there had been no transaction at all. This is based
on the theory that th&contracts of minors are voidable
until avoided.
MR CHF JusTIcE TAFT delivered

*theopinion of the

Court.
Thes were six suits in equity brought by the trustees
in bankruptcy of Charles Ponzi to recover of the defendants sums paid them by the bankrupt within fQur
months prior to the filing of the petition in .bankruptcy,
on the ground that they were unlawful perferences. All
the trustees have died or resigned pending the litigation,
and Cunningham, having been, substituted for.the last
survivor, is ndw the sole trustee. The actions were tried
together in the District Court, and were argued together
in the Circuit Court'of Appeals, and all the bills were dismissed in both courts. The facts and defenses are the
same in all the cases, except that, in that of Benjamin
Brown, there was an additional defense that he .was a
minor when the transactions occurred. We have brought
the cases into this Court by writ of certiorari.
The litigation grows out of the remarkable criminal
financial career of Charles Ponzi. In December, 1919,
with a capital of $5O, he began the business of borrowing
money on his promissory notes. He did not profess to
receive money.for investment for account of the lender.
He borrowed the money on his credit.only. He spread the
false tale that on his own account he was engaged in buying international postal coupons in foreign countries and
selling them in other countries at 100 per cent. profit,
and that this was made possible by the excessive differences in the rates of exchange following the war. He was
willing, he sai, to give others the opportunity to share
with him this profit. By ?. written promise in ninety days
to pay them $150 for every $100 loaned, he induced
thousands to lend him. He stimulated their avidity by

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court

265 U. S.

paying his ninety-day notes in full at the end of forty-five
days, and by circulating the notice that he would pay any
unmatured note presented in less than forty-five days at
100% of the loan. Within eight months he took in
$9,582,000 for which he issued his notes for $14,374,000.
He paid his agents a commission of 10 per cent. With
the 50 per cent. promised to lenders, every loan paid in
full with the profit would cost him 60 per cent: He was
* always insolvent and became daily more so, the more his
business succeeded. He made no investments of aiiy
kind, so that all the inoney he had at any time was solely
the result of loans by his dupes.
The defendants made payments to Ponzi as follows:
$600
Benjamin Brown, July 20th ....................
600
Benjamin Brown, July 24th ....................
1,000
.....................
H. W. Crockford, July 24th
1,600
Patrick W. Horan, July 24th ....................
600
Frank W. Murphy, July 22nd ...................
500
Thomas Powers, July. 24th .....................
1,000
...........
H. P. Holbrook, July 22nd ......
By July 1st, Ponzi was taking in about one million
dollars a week .Because of an investigation by public
authiority, Ponzi ceased selling notes on July 26th, but
offered and continued to pay all unmatured notes for the
amount originally paid in, and all matured notes which
had run forty-five days, in full. The report of the investigation cause4 a run on Ponzi's Boston office by investors seeking payment and this developed into a wild
scramble when, on August 2nd, a Boston newspaper,
most widely circulated, declared Ponzi to be hopelessly
insolvent, with a full description of the situation written
by one of his recent employees. To meet this emergency,
Ponzi concentrated. all his availab)le money from other
banks in Boston and New England in the Hanover Trust
Company, a banking concern in Boston, which had been
his chief depository. There was no evidehee of ary gen-

CUNNINGHAM v. BROWN.

I

-

Opinion of the Court.

eral attempt by holders of unmatured notes to secure
payment prior to the run which set in after the investigation July 26th.
The money of the defendants was paid by them between
July 20th and July 24th and was deposited in the Hanover
Trust Company. At the opening of business July 19th,
the balance of Ponzi's deposit accounts at the Hanover
T~mst Company was $334,000. At the close of business
July 24th it was $871,000. This sum was exhausted by
withdrawals of July 26th of $572,00, of July 27th of
$.88,00, and of July 28th of $905,000, or.a total of more
than $1,765,000. In spite of this, the account continued
to show a credit balance because new deposits from other
banks were mnade by P'onzi. It was finally ended by an
overdraft on August 9th of $331,000. The petition in
bankruptcy was then filed. The total withdrawals from
July 19th to August 10th were $6,692,000. The claims
which have been filed against the bankrupt estate are for
the money lent and not for the 150 per cent. promised.
Both 'courts held that the defendants had rescinded
their contracts of loan for fraud and that they were
entitled to a return of their money, that other dupes of
Ponzi whp filed claims in bankruptcy must be held not
to'have rescinded, but to have remained creditors, so that
what the latter had paid in was the property of Ponzi,
that the presumption was that a wrohgdoing trustee first
withdrew his own money from a fund mingled with that
of his cestui que trustent, and therefore that the respective deposits of the defendants were still in the bank and
available for return to them in rescission, and that payments to them of these amounts were not preferences but
merely the return of their own money.'
We do not agree with the courts below. The outstanding facts are not really in dispute. It is only in the
interpretation of those facts that our difference of view
arises.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

In the first place, we do not agree that the action of
the defendants constituted a rescission for fraud and a
restoration of the money lent on that ground. As early
as April, his secretary testifies, Ponzi adopted the practice
-of permitting any who did not wish to leave his money
for forty-five days to receive it back in full without
interest, and this was announced from time to time. Two
of the defendants expressly testified to this. It was
reiterated in the public lress in July and by the investigating public authorities. There is no, evidence that
these defendants were consciously rescinding a contract
for fraud. Certainly Ponzi was not returning tlheir
money on any admision of fraud. The lendeis merely
took advantage of his agreement to pay his unmatured
notes at par of the actual loan. Such notes were paid
under his agreement exactly as his notes which were
matured were paid at par .and 50 per cent. The real
transaction between him and those who were seeking him
is shown .by the fact that there were five hundred to
whoin he gave checks in compliance with his promise
and who were defeated merely because there were no
more funds.
The District Court found that when these defendants
were paid on and after August 2nd, they had reason to
believe that Ponzi was insolvent. The statute, § 60b of
the Bankruptcy Act, as amended June 25, 1910, c. 412,
36 Stat. 838, 842, requires that, in order that a preference
should be avoided, its beneficiary must have reasonable
cause to believe that the payment to him will effect a
preference, that is that the effect of the payment will be
to enable him to obtain a greater percentage of his debt
than others of the creditors of the insolvent of the same
class. The requirement is fully satisfied by the evidence
in this case, no matter where the burden of proof. On
the morning of August 2nd, when news of Ponzi's insolvency was broadly announced, there was'a scramble and

CUNNINGHAM v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

a race. The neighborhood of the Hanover Bank'was
crowded with people trying to get their money and for
eight days they struggled. Why? Because they feared
that they would be left only with claims against the
insolvent debtor. In other words, they were seeking a
preference by their diligence. Thus they came into the
teeth of the Bankrupt Act and their preferences in. payment are avoided by it.
But even if we assume that the payment of these unmatured notes was not according to' the contract with
Ponsi and that what the defendants here did was a rescission for fraud, we do not find them in any better case.
They had one of two remedies to make them whole.
They could have followed the money wherever they could
trace it and have asserted possession of it on the ground
that there was a rdsulting trust in their favor, or they
could have established a lien for what was due them in
any particular fund of which he had made it a part.
These things they could do without violating any statutory rule against preference in bankruptcy, because
they then would haie been endeavoring to get their own
mofliey, and not money in the estate of the bankrupt.
But to succeed they must trace the money and therein
they have failed. It is clear that all the money deposited
by these' defendants was withdrawn from deposit some
days before they applied for and received payment of
their unmatured notes. It is true that by the payment
into thE account of money coming from other banks and
directly from other dupes the bank account as such was
prevented from being exhausted; but it is impossible to
trace into the Hanover deposit of Ponzi after August 1st,
from which defendants' checks were paid, the money
which they paid him into that account before July 26th.
There was, therefore, no money coming from them upon
which a constructive trust, or an equitable lien could be
.fastened. Schuyler v. Littlefield, 232 U. S. 707; In re

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265"U. S.

Mulligan, 116 Fed. 715; In re Matthews' Sons, 238 Fed.
785; In re Stenning (1895), 2 Ch. 433. In such a, case,
the defrauded lender becomes merely a creditor to the
extent of his loss and a payment to him by the bankrupt
'-within the prescribed period of four months is a preference. Clarke v. Rogers, 228 U. S. 534; In re Dorr, 196
Fed. 292; In re Kearney, 107 Fed. 995.
Lord Chancellor Eldon, in Clayton' Case (1816 Ch.),
I Merivale, 572, held that, in a .fund in wlich were
mingled the moneys of several defrauded claimants insufficient to satisfy them all, the first withdrawals were to
be charged against the first deposits and the claimantswere entitled to be paid in the inverse order in which their
moneys went into .the account. Ponzi's withdrawals from
his account with the Hanover Trust Company on July 26,
27 and 28, were made before defendants had indicated an.y
purpose to rescind. Ponzi. then had a defeasible title to
the money he had received from them and could .legaily
withdraw it. By the end of July 28th, he had done so and
had exhausted all that was ticeable to their deposits.
The rule in Clayton's Case has no application.
The courts below relied on: the rule established by the
English Court of Appeals in KnatchbuZl v. Hallett, L. R.
13 Ch. D. 696, in which it was decided by Sir George Jessel,
Master of the Rolls, and one of his colleagues, that where
a fund was composed partly of a defrauded claimant's
money and partly of that of the wrongdoer, it would
be presumed that in the fluctuations of the fund it was the
wrongdoer's purpose to draw out the money he could
legally and honestly use rather than that of the claimant,
and that the claimant might:identify what remained as
his res and assert his right to it.by way of an equitable lien
on the whole fund, or a proper pro rata. share of it.
National Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S..54, 68; Hewitt
v. Hayes, 205 Mass. 356. To make the rule applicable
here, we must infer that in the deposit and withdrawal

CUNNINGHAM v. BROWN.
1 -Opinion

of the Court.'

of more than three i3llions of dollars between the deposits
of the defendants prior to July 28th, and the payrment of
their checks after August 2nd, Ponzi kept the money of
defendants on deposit intact -nd paid out only his subsequent deposits. Considering the fact that all this
money was the result of fraud upon all his dupes, it would
be running the fiction of KnatchbuUl v. Halett into the
ground to apply it here. * The rule is useful to work out
equity between a -wrongdoer and a. victim; but when the
f nd with which the wrongdoer is dealing is wholly made
up of the fruits of the frauds perpetrated against a
myriad of victixiis; the case is different. To say that,
as between equally innocent victims, the wrongdoer, having defeasible title to the whole fund, must be presumed to. have distinguished in advance between the
money of those who were about to rescind and those who
were not, would be carrying the fiction to a; fantastic
conclusion.
After August 2nd, the victims of Ponzi were not to
be divided into two classes, those who rescinded for fraud
and those vlio were relying on his contract to pay them.
They were all of one class, actuated by the same purpos6
to save themselves from the effect of Ponzi's insolvency.
Whether they sought to rescind, or sought to get their
money as by the terms of the contract, they were, in theirinability to identify their payments, creditors and nothing
more. It is a case the circumstances of which call strongly
for the principle that equality is equity, and this is the
spirit of the bankrupt law. Those who were successful in
the race of diligence violated not only its spirit but its
letter and secured an unlawful preference.
We do not see that a minor whose money could not be
identified is in a better situation than that of the other
defendants. -Like them, on August 2nd, he was only a
creditor of Ponzi, and was moved to avoid insolvency by
a preference just as they were. A minor is not exempt-

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1923."
Statement of the Case.

265 U. S.

from the defeat of an unlawful preference by § 60b. of
the Bankruptcy Act as amended.
The decrees are reversed.

-CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. OSBORNE, AS TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA, ET AL.
CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. OSBORNE, AS "STATE TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA, BTAL.
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAOLIS & OMAHA
RAILWAY COMPANY v. OSBORNE, AS STATE
TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF
NEBRASKA, ET.AL.
APPFALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE U=MfB3D STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASX"

Nos. 219, 224, 225. Argued April 14 15, 1924;.-Decided April
28, 19.24.
Where railroad companiks, complaining of systematic and intentional
- discrimifiation by a state bard in the awessment of taxes, were
allowed no remedy'by the'state law other than a writ -of error from
the State Supreme Court to correct only errors of law apparent on
the face of the record prepared by the board itself, with no supersedeas pending review to-prevent infliction of pimlties on their
agents for falure to pay tie tax, heM, that the remeiy was not
adequate and that the case was cognizable'by the District Court

in suits for injunction. P. 15.
Reversed.'

* APi

s from decrees of the Distric Court which dis-

missed the.suits brought by the appellant companies to
restrain collection of state taxes, upon the ground that
their Temedy at law was adequate.

