OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. NEVADA n'r

412 U. S.

AL.

-ON MOTION FOR LBAVE TO FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT

No. 59, Orig. Argued April 16, 1973-Decided Jurie 11, 1973
The United States asks leave to file,a bll of complaint against
California and Nevada seeking a declaration of the respective
.:rights of the parties in the Truckee River, which flows through
part of California into Nevada, terminating in Pyramid Lake.
The, complaint states that the United States created a reservation
in 1859 for the Paiute Indian Tribe that included Pyramid Lake,
and that the lake level has declined since 1906 due chiefly to
upstream uses and diversions, making it imperative that the
Government's prior right to sufficient water to maintain the
lake be judicially declared. By decree entered in 1944, in
United States v. Orr Water Ditch Co., the Government was authorized to divert Truckee River water for a reclamation project.
upstream from Pyramid Lake, and its prior right was declared
to sufficient Truckee River water to irrigate certain botfon{ land
and bench land on the Pyramid Lake Reservation. The defendant
States have made a compact, which is the subject of bills pending
in Congress, respecting their shares of Truckee River water.
Held: The motion to file the bill of complaint is denied without
prejudice to refiling it if the posture of the litigation sAold
change in a manner that presents a more substantial basis for the
exercise of original jurisdiction. Pp. 537-540.
(a) There being no controversy between California and Nevada,
the dispute is between the United States and two States, over
which the Court has original but not exclusive jurisdiction under
28 U. S. C. § 1251 (b) (2). P. 537.
(b) The Court seeks to exercise its original jurisdiction sparingly, especially where the plaintiff has another adequate forum
in which to settle his claim.' P. 538.
(c) The disputes over the Or Water Ditch decree and the
existence of prior water rights concerning the Pyramid Lake
Reservation involve competing claims within Nevada, over which
the District Court has jurisdiction. Any possible dispute between
the United States and California iespecting Pyramid Lake water
rights is remote, and any dispute with California concerning water

UJNITED STATFS v. NEVADA
534

Per Curiam

rights in that State can be settled in the lower federal courts in
Califo.nia. Pp. 538-540.
Motion denil.

Solidtc r General Griswold argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the briefs were Assistant
Attorney General"Frizzell, Deputy Assistant Attorney
General Kiechel, and Harry R. Sachse.
E. BarrettPrettyman,Jr., argued the cause for defendant State of Nevada. With him on the brief were"Robert
F. List, Attorney General, Timothy James Bloomfield,
and Edward C. Reed, Jr. Roderick Walston, Deputy Attorney General, argued the cause for defendant State- of.
California. With him on the brief were Eve le J.
Younger, Attorney General, Carl Boronkay, Assistant
Attorney General, and Bertram G. Buzzini and Dennis
Antenore, Deputy Attorneys General.*
PEP.CURIAM.

The United States asks leave to file a bill of complaint
pursuant to this Court's original jurisdiction against the
States of California and Nevada seeking a declaration
of the respective rights of the States and of the United
States in the Truckee River, a navigable interstate
stream. The Truckee rises in the High Sierra, flows
into Lake Tahoe, through which the California-Nevada
boundary runs, exits on the California side of the Lake,
and flows 20 miles before crossing into Nevada. It then
*Brie& of amici curiae in support of motion for leave to file bill of
complaint'were filed by Robert S. Pelcyger, David H. G(tches, and
Robert D. Stitser for the Pyramid Lake Paiute'Tribe of Indians,
and by Arthur Lazarus, Jr., for the Association on American
Indians Affairs, Inc.
James W. Johnson, Jr.,-and E. J. Skeen filed a brief for TruckeeCarson Irrigation District as amicus curiae in opposition-to motion
for leave to file bill of complaint.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Per Curiam

412 U. S.

continues another 65 miles, through Reno and beyond,
to its termination in Pyramid Lake, a desert lake 20
miles long and five miles wide, with no outlet and a
water level determined by t6e balance or imbalance between inflow and evaporation.
The bill of complaint sought to be filed states that in
1859 the United States created a reservation for the Paiute
Indian Tribe that included Pyramid Lake and an extensive area surrounding it. Allegedly, the United States
intended at the time to reserve sufficient water from the
Truckee River to maintain Pyramid Lake and the lower
reaches of the river as a viable fishery on which the
Indians could depend for their subsistence and livelihood.
The level of the Lake, however, is said to have declined
some 70 feet since 1906, due chiefly to upstream uses
and diversions which make it imperative that the prior
right of the United States to sufficient water to maintain Pyramid Lake be judicially declared as against
each of the defendant .States.
It appears from the bill of complaint that the United
States has several other interests in the waters of the
Truckee River, chief among which is the right to. divert at
its Derby Dam, some distance upstream from Pyramid
Lake, large amounts of water from the Truckee River for
transportation and use in connection with the Newlands
Reclamation Project, initiated and- completed by the
UnitWd States pursuant to the Reclamation Act of 1902,
32 Stat. 388.t Judicial approval for this diversion was
,tThe United States also operates the Washoe Reclamation Project
in Nevada anid California which was established under the Washoe
Project Act of 1956, 70 Stat.. 775. The Act provides, inter alia,
for establishing facilities to permit increased releases of water from
Lake Tahoe and restoration of the Pyramid Lake fishery, 43 U. S. C.
§ 614c.
In addition to the right 'claimed for Pyramid Lake, the United
States seeks to have rights decreed for it to the use of waters in and

UNITED STATES v. NEVADA
534

Per Curiam

sought by the United States in a suit brought by it in1913"
in the United States District Court for the District of
Nevada. United States v. Orr Water Ditch Co., Equity
No. A-3 (1944). The decree entered in this action in 1944
authorized the United States to divert Truckee River water
at Derby Dam for delivery to the Newlands Project; it
also declared the prior right of the United States to sufficient Truckee River water to irrigate some 3,130 acres of
bottom land and 2,745 acres of bench land on the Pyramid
Lake Indian Reservation. App. D to Motion for Leave
to File Complaint.
The foremost purpose of the United States in seeking to
institute the present litigation is to perfect a prior water"
right against all upstream uses that will maintain
Pyramid Lake at its current level'and so prevent further
deterioration of the lake and the river as a habitat for
the native fish that have historically thrived in the lake
and that have provided sustenance for the Tribe.
The motion for leave to file a bill of complaint is denied.
The States of California and Nevada have entered into
a compact with respect to their respective shares in the
Truckee' River water, and that compact is the subject of
pending bills in Congress. H. R. 15, S. 24, 93d Cong.,
1st Sess. There is now no controversy between the two
States with respect to the Truckee River. The complaint, therefore, as the United States concedes, is not
one alleging a case or controversy between two States
within the exclusive jurisdiction of this Court, under
28 U. S. Q. § 1251 (a), but a dispute between the United
States and two States over which this Court has original
but not exclusive, jurisdiction under § 1251 (1)(2).
on national forests within the Truckee River watershed, to waters reserved as public water hWles and hot springs, to the use 6f waters
in and on public lands where the waters have heretofore been put to
.beneficial use on those lands, and to the use of runoff waters from
the Newlands Project for use in a wildlife refuge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Per, Curiam

412 U. S.

We seek to exercise our original jurisdiction sparingly
and are paiticularly reluctant to take jurisdiction of a suit
where the plaintiff has another adequate forum in which
to settle his claim. Illinois v. City of Milwaukee, 406
U. S. 91 (1972); Ohio v. Wyandotte Chemicals Corp., 401
U. S. 493 (1971); Massachusetts v. Missouri, 308 U. S. 1
(1939)., Here, Nevada disputes the right of the United
States to sufficient water to maintain Pyramid Lake at
any particular level. It also assert§ that the United
States is bound by the 1944 Orr Ditch decree, to respect
the private water rights of hundreds of landowners who
are served by the Newlands Project and whose rights are
dependent upon the right of the United States to divert
Truckee River water, the decree authorizing that diversion, and a contract with the United States to deliver
the water to the project. This dispute over the Orr
Ditch decree and the existence and extent of the prior
water rights of the United States with respect to the
Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the District Court. We need not employ our
original jurisdiction to settle competing claims to water
within a single State. This is particularly the case
where the individual users of water in the Newlands
Project, who ordinarily would have no right to intervene in an original action in this Court, New Jersey v.
New York, 345 U. S. 369, 373-375 (1953), would have
an opportunity to participate in their own behalf if
this litigation goes forward in the District Court.
We recognize that the United States will not be able
to join California as a defendant in a suit in Nevada to
perfect Pyramid Reservation water rights and that,
absent California's 'voluntary appearance, a Nevada decree would not bind that State. Hinderliderv. la Plata
Co., 304 U. S. 92, 103 (1938). But these are not determinative considerations. Under the proposed interstate

UNITED STATES v. NEVADA

534

Per Curiam

compact, California and Nevada have agreed upon their
respective shares of Truckee River water. Nevada has
also agreed that any rights to the use of water in Nevada
by the United States or its wards are to be charged against
Nevada's share of Truckee water. For the purposes of
dividing the waters of an interstate stream with another
State, Nevada has the right, parens patriae, to represent
all the nonfederal users in its own State insofar as the
share allocated to the other State is concerned. It is
therefore doubtful at best that there is now any dispute
at all between California and the United States with
respect to the latter's claim to water rights at Pyramid
Lake. New Jersey v. New York, supra, at 372-373,;
Hinderlider v. La Plata Co., supra, at 106; Nebraska
v. Wyoming, 295 U. S. 40, 43 (1935); 325 U. S. 589,
612-615, 629 (1945). It is true that upstream or downstream water 'uses and priorities are important considerations when the judiciary equitably apportions
an interstate stream, Hinderliderv. La PlataCo., supra, at
102; Nebraska v. Wyoming, 325' U. S., at 617; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419, 470 (1922), but the
United States would appear to have occasion to object
to upstream diversions in California on the grounds of
interference with its Pyramid Lake water rights only if
the compact between the two States is not approved or
Nevada, prior to such approval, disowns the agreedupo., division of Truckee River water. In that event, a,
dispute between the two States may arise, and the United
States would then perhaps have some ground to participate and assert that California's share must be reduced
in order to accommodate a prior, long-established 'use
by the United States in the State of Nevada. Cf. Arizona v. California, 3,73 U. S. 546 (1963); Nebraska v.
Wyoming, supra. Ay possible dispute with California
with respect to United States water uses in that State

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Per Curiam

412 U. S.

can be settled in the lower federal courts in California;
and the' possibility of a ripe controversy between the
United States and California with respect to Pyramid
Lake water rights appears too remote to warrant granting the Government's motion for leave to file the instant
complaint. We deny the motion, but without prejudice
to refiling it should the posture of the litigation change.
in a manner that presents a more substantial basis for the
exercise of our original jurisdiction.

So ordered.
MR. JusTicB DouGLAs dissents.

