218

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

412 U. S.

SCHNECKLOTH, CONSERVATION CENTER
SUPERINTENDENT v. BUSTAMONTE
CERTIORARI TO TBE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 71-732. Argued Qctober 10, 1972-Decided May 29, 1973
During the course of a consent search of a car that had been
stopped by officers for traffic violations, evidence was discovered
that was used to convict respondent of unlawfully possessing a
check. In a habeas corpus proceeding, the Court of Appeals,
reversing the District Court, held that the prosecution had failed
to prove that consent to the search had been made with the understanding that it could freely be withheld. Held: When the subject
of a search is not in custody and the State would justify a search
on the basis of his consent, the Fourth and 'Fourteenth Amendments require that it demonstrate that the consent was in fact
voluntary; voluntariness is to be determined from the totality of
the surrounding circumstances While knowledge of a right to
refuse consent is a factor to be taken into account, the State need
not prove -that the one giving permission to search knew that he
had a right to withholdhis consent. Pp. 223-249.
448 F. 2d 699, reversed.
J., ielivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
and WHrrE, BrAcKcuN, POWELL, and REHNQUIST, JJ., joined.
BrAcKmuN, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 249. POWELL, J.,
filed a concurring opinion, in which BunrGR, C. J., and RsHNQUIST,
X., joined,.post, p. 50. DOUGLAS, J., post, p. 275, BRENNAN, J.,,
post, p. 276, and MAaSHAML, J., post, p. 277, filed dissenting opinions.
STEWART,

0. 3.,

Robert R. Granucci; Deputy Attorney General of
California, argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on-the briefs were Evelle J. Younger, Attbrney General,
Herbert L. Ashby, Chief Assistant Attorney General,
Doris H. Maier, Assistant Attorney General, and Edward P. O'Brien, Deputy Attorney General
Stuart P. Tobisman, by appointment of the Court,

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

405 U. S. 1062, Argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent pro hao vico.*

MR. JUSTICE STEWART delivered the opinion of the
Court.
It is well settled under the Furth and, Fourteenth
Amendments that a tearch conducted, without a warrant
issued upon probable cause is,"per se unreasonable . . .
subject only to a few specifically established and welldelineated exceptions;?IKatzv. United States, 389 U. S.
347, 357; Coolidge v. New Hampshire,-403 "U. S. 443,
454-455; Chambers v. Maroney, 399 U. S. 42, 51. It
is equally well settled-that one of the specifically established exceptions to the requirements of -both a warrant and probable cause is a search that is conducted
pursuant to consent. Davis v. United States, 328 U. S.,
582, 593-594; Zap v. United States, 328 U. S. 624, 630.
The constitutional question in the present case concerns
the definition of "consent" in this Fourth and Fourteenth
Amendment conteft.
The respondent was brought to trial "in a California
-court 'upon a charge of possessing a check with intent
to defraud
He moved to suppress the introduction of
certain material as evidence against him on the ground
that the material.had been acquired through an unconptitutional search and seizure. In response to the motion, the trial judge conducted an evidentiary hearing
*William J. Scott, Attorney General, and James B. Zagel and
Jayne' A. Carr, Assistant Attorneys General, filed a brief for the
,State of Illinois et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.
Melvin L. WQlf, Sanford J. Rosen, Joel M. Gora, A. L. Wirin,
Fred Okrand, and Lawrence R. Sperber filed a brief for the American
Civil
Liberties Union et al. as amid curiae urging affirmance.
1
Cal. Penal Code ยง 475a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Olinion of the Court

412 U. S.

where it was established that the material in question
had been acquired by the State under the following
circumstances:
While on routine patrol in Sunnyvale, California, at
approximately 2:40 in the morning, Police Officer James
Rand, stopped an automobile when he observed that one
headlight and its license plate light.were burned out. Six
men were in the vehicle. Joe Alcala and the respondent,
Robert Bustamonte, were in the front seat with Joe
Gonzales, the driver. Three older men were seated in
the rear. When, in respohse to the policeman's question,
Gonzales could not produce a driver's license, Officer
Rand asked if any of the other five had any evidence of
identification. Only Alcala produced a license, and he
explained that the car was his brother's. After the six
occupants had stepped out of the car at the officer's
request and after two additional policemen had arrived,
Officer Rand asked Alcala if he could search the car.
Alcala rellied, "Sure,- go ahead." Prior to the search
no bne was threatened with arrest and, according to
Officer Rand's uncontradicted testimony, it "was all very
congenial at this time." Gonzales testified that Alcala
actually helped in the search of the car, by opening the trunk and glove compartment. In Gonzales'
words: ."[T]he police officer asked Joe [Alcala], he
goes, 'Does the trunk open?' And Joe said, 'Yes.' He
went to the car and got the keys and opened up the
trunk." Wadded up under the left rear seat, the police
officers found three checks that had previously been stolen
from a car wash.
The trial judge denied the motion to suppress, and
the checks in question were admitted in evidence at
Bustamonte's trial. On the basis of this and other evidence he was convicted, and the California Court of Appeal for the First Appellate District affirmed the convic-

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

tion. 270 Cal. App. 2d 648, 76 Cal.Rptr. 17. In agreeing
that the search and seizure were constitutionally vahd, the
appellate court applied the standard earlier formulated
by the Supreme Court of California in an opinion by
then Justice Traynor: "Whether in a particular case an
apparent consent was in fact voluntarily given or was in
submission to an express or implied -assertion of authority, is a question of fact to be determined in the light
of all the circumstances."- People v. Midhael, 45 Cal. 2d
751, 753, 290 P. 2d 852, 854. The appellate courtjfound
that "[ilin the instant case the prosecution met the neces- .
sary burden of showing consent . . . since there were
clearly circumstances from which the trial court could
ascertain that consent had been freely- given without
coercion or submission to authority. Not only officer
Rand, but Gonzales, the driver of the automobile, testified that Alcala's assent to the search of his brother's
automobile was freely, even casually given. At the time
of the request to search the automobile the atmosphere,
according to Rand, was 'congenial' and there' had been
no discussion of any crinie., As noted, t3onzales said
Alcila, even attempted to aid in the search." 270 Cal.
App. 2d, at 652, 76 Cal. Rptr., at 20. The California'
2
Supreme Court denied review.
Thereafter, the respondent sought a writ of habeas
corpus in a federal district court. It was denied.3 On
appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, relying on its pror decisions in Cipres v. United States, 343
F. 2d 95, and Schoepflin v. United States, 39.1 F. 2d 390,
set aside. the District Court's order. 448 F. 2d 699.
The appellate court reasoned that a consent was a waiver
of a person's Fourth andoFourtebnth Amendment rights,
and that the State was under an obligation to demon2
.

The order of the California Supreme Court is unreported.
The decision of the District Court is' unreported.

22

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

strate, not only that the consent had been uncoerced, but'
that it had been given with an understanding that it
could be freely and effectively withheld. Consent could
not be found, the court held, solely from the absence of
coercion and a verbal expression of assent. Since the
District Court had not determined that Alcala had
known that hisconsent could have been withheld and that
he could have refused to have his vehicle searched, the
Court of Appeals vacated the order denying the writ
and remanded the case for further proceeings. We
granted. certiorari to determine whether the Fourth and
Fourteenth Amendments require the-'showing thought
.necessary by th6 Court'of Appeals. 405 U. S. 953.

II
It is important to make it clear at the outset what
is not involved in this case. The respondent concedes
that a search conducted, pursuant to a valid consent is
constitutionally permissible. In Katz v. United States,
389 U. S., at 358, and more recently in Vale v. Louisiana,',
399 U..S. 30, 35, we recognized :that a search authorized
'by consent is wholly valid. See also Davis v. United
States, 328 U. S., at 593-594; Zap v. United tates, 328
U. S., at 630.1 And similarly the State concedes that
"[w]hen a prosecutor seeks to rely upon consent to justify
-the lawfulness of a search, 'he h-s the burden of provingthat the consent was, in fact, freely and voluntarily
given." Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U. S. 543, 548.
See also Johnson v. United States, 333 U. S. 10; Amos v.
United States, 255, U. S. 313.
4 "One

would expect a hard-headed system like the common law
to recognize exceptions even to the most comprehensive principle
for safeguarding liberty. This is true of the prohibition of all
searches and seizures as unreasonable unless authorized by a judicial warrant appropriately supported." Davis v. United States,
328 U. S. -582, 609 (Frankfurter, J., dissenting).

SCHNECKLOTH i. BUSTAMONTE
218

-Opinion of the Court

The precise question in this case, then, is what must
the prosecution prove to demonstrate that a consent was
"voluntarily", given. And upon that question there is
a square conflict of views between the state and federal
courts that have ieviewed the search inv6lved in the
case before us. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit concluded that it is an essential part of the
State's initial burden to prove that a 1person knows
he has a right to refuse consent. The California courts
have followed the rule that voluntariness is a question
of fact to be determined from the -totality of all the
circumstances, and that the state of a defendant's knowledge is only one factor to be taken into account in
assessing the voluntariness of a consent. See, e. g.,
People v. Tremayne, 20 Cal. App. 3d 1006, 98 Cal. Rptr.
193; People v. Roberts, 246 Cal. App. 2d 715, 55 Cal.
Rptr. 62.

A
-

The most extensive-judicial exposition-of the meaning
of "voluntariness" has been, developed in those cases in
which the Court has had to determine the "voluntariness" of a defendant's confession for purposes of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Almost 40 years ago, in
Brown v. Mississippi, 297 U. S. 278, the Court held that
a criminal conviction based upon a confession obtained
by brutality and -violence was constitutionally invalid
under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In some 30 different cases decided during the
era that intervened betweeft Brown and Escobedo v. Illinois, 378 U. S. 478, the Court was faced with the necessity of determining whether in fact the confessions in
issue had been "voluntarl'y" given.' It is to that body
See Mirada v.-Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, 507, and n. 3 (Harlan,

J., dissenting); Spano v. New York, 360 U. S. 315, 321 n. 2 (citing
28 cases).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

of case law to which we turn for initial guidance on the
meaning of "voluntariness"- in the present context.8
Thos cases yield no-talismanic definition of "voluntariness," mechanically applicable to the host of situations where the question has arisen. "The notion of
'voluntariness,'" Mr. Justice Frankfurter once wrote,
"is itself an amphibian." Culomnbe v. Connecticut, 367
U. S. 568, 604-605. It cannot be taken literally to mean
a "knowing" choice. "Except where a person is unconscious or drugged or otherwise lacks capacity for
conscious, choice, all incriminating statements--even
those made under brutal treatment-are 'voluntary' in
the sense of representing a choice of alternatives. On
the other hand, if 'voluntariness' incorporates notions.
of 'but-for' cause, the question should be whether the
statement would have been made even absent inquiry or
other official action. Under such a test, virtually no
statement would be voluntary because very few people
give incriminating statements in the absence of official
action of some kind." 7 ; It is thus evident that neither
linguistics nor epistemology will provide a ready definitibn of the meaning of "voluntariness."
Rather, "voluntariness" has reflected an accommodation of the complex of values implicated in police ques6

Similarly, when we recently considered the meaning of a "voluntary" guilty plea, we returned to the standards of "voluntariness"
developed in the coerced-confession cases. See Brady v. United
States, 397 U. S. 742, 749. See also n. 25, infra.
7
Bator & Vorenberg, Arrest, Detention, Interrogation and the
Right to Counsel: Basic Problems and Possible Legislative Solutions, 66 Col. L. Rev. 62, 72-73. See also 3 J.Wigmore, Evidence
ยง 826 (J. Chadbourn rev; 1970): "When, for example threats
are used, the situation is one of choice between alternatives" either
one disagreeable, to be sure, but still subject to a choice. As between the rack and a confession, the latter would usually be considered the less disagreeable: but it is nonetheless a voluntary choice."

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

tioning of a suspect. At one end of the spectrum is the
acknowledged need for police questioning as a tool for
the effective enforcement of criminal laws. See Culombe
v. Connecticut, supra, at 578-580. Without such investigation, those who were innocent might be falsely accused,
those who were guilty might wholly escape prosecution,
and many crimes would go unsolved. In short, the security of all would be diminished. Haynes v. Washington, 373 U. S. 503, 515. At the'other end of the spectrum
is the set of values reflecting society's deeply felt belief
that the criminal law cannot be used as an instrument
of unfairness, and that the possibility of unfair and
even brutal police tactics poses a real and serious threat
to civilized notions of justice. "[I]n cases involving
involuntary confessions, this Court enforces the strongly
felt attitude of our society that important human values
are sacrificed where an agency of the government, in the
course of securing a conviction, w'rings a confession out
of an accused against his will." Blackburn v. Alabama,
361 U. S. 199, 206-207. See also Culombe v. Connecticut, supra, at 581-584; Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S.
227, 235-238.
This Court's decisions reflect a frank recognition that
the Constitution requires the sacrifice of neither security
nor liberty. The Due Process Clause does not mandate
that the police forgo all questioning, or that they be
given carte blanche to extract what they can from a
suspect. "The ultimate test remains that which has
been the only clearly established test in Anglo-American
courts for .two hundred years: the test of voluntariness.
Is the confession the product of an essentially free and
unconstrained choice by its maker? If it is, if he has
willed to confess, it may be used against him. If it is
not, if his will has been overborne and his capacity for
self-determination critically impaired, the use of his

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opininof the Court

412 U.S.

confession offends due process." Culombe v. Connecticut,. supra, a 602.
In determining whether a defendant's will was overborne in a particular case, the Cotirt has assessed
the totality of all the surrounding circumstances--both
the characteristics of the accused and the details of the
interrogation. :Some of the factors taken into account
have included the youth of the accused, e. g., Haley v.
Ohio, 332 U. S. 596; his lack of education, e. g., Payne v.
Arkansas, 356 U. S. 560; or his low intelligence, e. g.,
Fikes v. Alabama, 352 U. S.191; the lack of any advice
to the accused of his constitutional rights, e. g., Davis v.
North Carolina,384 U. S. 737; the length of detention.
e. g., Chambers v. Florida, supra; the repeated and
prolonged nature of the questioning, e. g., Ashcraft v.
Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143; and the use of physical punishment such as the deprivation of food or sleep, e. g., Reck
v. Pate, 367 U. S. 433.8 In all of these cases, the Court
determined the factual circumstances surrounding the
confession, assessed the psychological -impact on the accused, and evaluated the legal significance of how the
accused reacted. Culombe v. Connecticut, supra,. at
603.
The significant fact about all of these decisions is
that none of them turned on the presence or absence of
a single controlling criterion; each reflected a careful
scrutiny of all the surrounding circumstances. See
Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S.436, 508 (Harlan, J., dissenting); id., at 534-535 ('Wr.IT, J., dissenting). In
none of them, did the Court rule that the Due Process
Clause required the prosecution to prove as part of its
8

See generally Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S., at 508 (Harlan,
J., dissenting); 3 J. Wigmore, Evidence ยง 826 (J.Chadbourn rev.
1970); Note, Developments in the Law: Confessions, 79 Harv. ,L.
Rev. 938, 954--984.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

227

Opinion of the Court

initial burden that the defendant knew he had a right
to refuse to aiswer the questions that were put. While
the state of the accused's mind, and the failure of the
police to adVise the accused of his rights, were certainly
factors to be evaluated in assessing the "voluntariness"
of an accused's responses, they were not in and of themselves determinative. See, e. g., Davis v. North Carolina,
supra; HIaynes v. Washington, - mpra, at 510-511;
Culombe v. Connecticut, supra, at 610; Turnerv. Pennsylvania, 338 U. S. 62, 64,.

-

Similar considerations lead us to agree with the cou'rts
of California that the. question whether a consent to a
search was in' fact "voluntary" or. was the product of
duress or coercion, express or implied, is a question of
fact to be determined from the totality of all the circumstances. While knowledge of the right to refuse consent is one faitor to be taken into account, the government need not establish such knowledge as the sine qua
non of an effective consent. As with police questioning,
two competing concerns must be accommodated in determining the meaning of a "voluntary" consent-the legitimate need for such-searches and the equally important
requirement of aisuring the absence of coercion.
In situations where the police have some evidence of
illicit activity, but lack probable cause to arrest or search,
a search authorized by a valid consent may be, the only
means of obtaining important and reliable evidence.9 In
the present case for example, while the police had reason
to stop the car for traffic violations, the State does not
contend that there was probable cause to search the
vehicle or that the search was incident to a valid arrest
9

See Note, Consent'Searches: 'A Reappraisal After Miranda v.,
Arizona, 67 Col. L. Rev. 130, 130-131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

of any of the occupants.:" Yet, the search yielded tangible evidence that served as a basis for a prosecuti~h, and
provided some assurance that others, wholly innocent of
the crime, were not mistakenly brought to trial. And
in those cases where there is probable cause Po arrest or
search, but where the police lack a warrant, a consent
search may stillbe ivaluable. If the search is conducted
and proves fruitless, that in itself may convince the police
that an arrest with its possible stigma and embarrassment is unnecessary, or that a far more extensire search
pursuant to a warrant is not justified. In short, a search
pursuant to consent may result in considerably less inconvenience for the subject of the search, and, properly
conducted, is a constitutionally permiss.ble and wholly
legitimate aspect of effective police -activity.
But the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments require
that a consent not be coerced, by explicit or implicit
means, by implied threat or covert force. For, no matter
how subtly the coercion was applied, the resulting
"consent" would be no more than a pretext for the unjuctified poiice intrusion against which the Fourth
Amendment is directed. In, the words of the classic.
admonition in Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635:
"It may be that- it is the obnoxious thing in its
mildest and least repulsive form;' but illegitimate
and unconstitutional practices get their first footing
in that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight
deviations from legal modes of procedure. This
can only be obviated by adhering to the rule that
constitutional provisions for' ihe security of person
and property should be liberally construed. A close
10

If there bad been probable cause for the search of the automobile, a7 search warrant would not have been necessary in this case.
See Brinegar v. United States, 338 U. S: 160; Carroll v. United
States, 267 U. S. 132.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE

218

Opinion of the Court
and literal construction deprives them of half their,
efficacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the
right, as if it consisted .more in sound than in substance. It is the duty of courts to be watchful for
the 6onstitutional rights of the citizen, and against
any stealthy encroachments thereon,"

,The problem of reconciling the recognized legitimacy
of consent searches with the requirement* that they be
free from any aspect of official coercion cannot be resolved by any infallible touchstone. To approve such
searches without the most careful scrutiny would sanction the possibility' of official coercion; to place -artificial
restrictions upon such searches would jeopardize their
basic validity. Just as was true with confessions, the
requirement of a 'voluntary" consent reflects a fair
accommodation of the constitutionil requirements involved. In examining all the surrounding circumstances
to determine if in fact the consent to search was coerced,
account must- be taken of subtly coercive police questions, as well as the possibly vulnerable subjective state
of the person who consents. Those searches that are
the product of police coercion can thus be filtered out
without undermining the continuing validity of consent
searches. In sum, there is' no reason for us to depart in
the area of consent searches, from the traditional definition of "voluntariness."'
The approach of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit finds no support in any of our decisions that have
attempted to define the meaning of "voluntariness." Its
ruling, that the State must affirmatively prove 'that the
subject of the search knew that he had a right to refuse
consent, would, in practice, create serious doubt w~hether
consent searches could continue to be conducted. There'
might be rare cases where it could be proved from the
record that a person in fact affirmatively knew of his

OCTOBER TERM. 1972

"230

Opinion "f:the Court

.412 U. S.

right to refuse-such as a case where he announced to
the police that if he didu't sign the consent forn4, "you
[police] are going to get a search warrant;" 11 or a case
where by prior experience and raining. a person had
clearly and convincingly demonstrated such knowledge. 2
But more commonly -wherethere was no evidence'of any
coercion, explicit or implicit, the piosecution would
nevertheless be unable, to demonstrate that the subject
of the search in fact had known of his right to refuse
consent.
The very object of the inquiry-the nature bof a person's subjective understandifng-underlines the difficulty
ofthe prosecution's burden under the rule applied by the
Court of Appeals in this case. Any defendant who was
the subject of a search authorized solely by his consent
could effectively frustrate the introduction into evidence
of the fruits of that search by simply failing to testify
that he. in fact knew he could refuse to consent. And
the near impossibility of meeting this prosecutorial burden suggests why this Court has never accepted any
such Jtmus-paper test of voluntariness. It is instructive to recall the fears of then Justice Traynor of the
California Supreme- Court:
"[.I]t is not unreasonable for officers to seek interyiews with suspects or witnesses or to call upon them
,at th'ir homes for such purloses. Such. inquiries,
although courteously made and not accompanied
with any assertion of a right to enter or search or
secure answers, would p~rmt the criminal to defeat
his prosecution by voluntarily revealing all of the
against him and then contending that he
acted only in response to an implied assertion of

-evidence

tate&v. Curiale, 414 F. 2d 744, 747.
Rosenthall v. Henderson, 389 F. 2d 514, 516.

SUnited
12 Cf.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

unlawful authority." People v. Micsgel, 45 Cal. 2d,
at 754, 290 P. 2d, at 854.
One alternative that would go far toward proving
that the subject of a search did know he had a right
to refuse consent would be to advise him of that right
before eliciting his consent. That, however, is a suggestion that has been almost universally repudiated by
both federal 3 and state courts,1' and, we think, rightly
so. Por it would be thoroughly impractical to impose
on the normal consent search the .detailed requirements
of, an effective warning. Consent searches are part of
the standard investigitory techniques of -aw enforcement
'1 See, e. g., Gorman v. United States, 380 F. 2d 158, 164 (CAl);
United States ex ret. Cole v. Manes' , 429 F. 2d 61, 66 (CA2);
United States ex rel. Harris v. Hendricks, 423 .F. 2d, 1096, 1101
(CA3); United States-v. Vickers, 387 F. 2d 703, 707 (CA4); United
States v. Goosbey, 419 F. 2d 818 (CA6); United States v. No,
443 F. 2d 144, 147 (CA9); Leeper v. United States, 446 F. 2d 281,
-284 (CAI0). But see, United States v. Nikrasch, 367 F. 2d 740,
'744 '(CA7); United States v. Moderacki, 280 F. Supp. 633 (Del.);
United States v. Blalock, 255 F. Supp. 268 (ED Pa.). While there
is dictum in Nikrasch to the effect that warnings are necessary for
an effective Fourth Amendment consent, the Court of A5pes1s for
the Seventh Circuit subsequently recanted that position and termed
it "of dubious propriety." -'Bayrd v. Lane, 398 F. 2d 750, 755 The
Court of- Appeals limited Nikrasch to its facte-a case where 'a suspect, arrested on a disorderly conduct charge and incarcerated for
eight hcurs "consehted" from his jail cell to a q~rch of his car.
14 See, e. g., People v. Roberts, 246 Cal. App. 2d 715, 55 Cal., Rpir.
62; People v. Dahlke, 257 Cal. App. 2d 82, 64 Cal. Rptr. 599; Sate
v. Custer, 251 So. 2d 287 (Fla. App.); State v. Oldham, 92 Idaho
r124, 438 P. 2d 275; State v. McCarty, 199 Kan. 116, 427 P. 2d
616, vacated in part on other grounds, 392 U. S. 308; Hohnke v.
Commonwealth, 451 S. W. 2d 162 (Ky.); State v. Andrus, 250
La. 765, 199 So. 2d 867; Morgan v. State, 2 Md. App. 440, 234'
A. 2d 762; State.v. Witherspoon, 460 S. W. 2d 291 (Mo.); State
v. Forney, 181 Neb. 757, 150 N. W. 2d 915; State v. Douglas, 260
Ore. 60, 488 P. 2d 1366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

agencies. They normally occur on the highway, or in a
person's home or office, and under informal 5Ad unstuctured, conditions. The circumstances that prompt
the initial request to search may develop quickly or be
a logical extension of investigative police questioning.
The police may seek to investigate further suspicious
circumstances or to follow up leads developed in questioning persons at the scene of a crime. These situations are a far cry from the structured atmosphere of
a trial where, assisted by counsel if he chooses, a defendant is informed of his trial rights. Cf. Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U. S. 238, 243. And, while surely a closer
question, these situations are still immeasurably far removed from. "custodial interrogation" where, in Miranda
v. Arizona, supra, we found that the Constitution required certain now familiar warnings as a prere4uisite
to police interrogation. Indeed, in language applicable
to the typical consent search, we refused.to extend the
need for warningi:
"Our decision is not intended to hamper the traditional function of police officers in investigating
crime....
When an individual is in custody on
probable cause, the police may, of course, seek out
evidence in the field to be used at trial against him.
Such investigation may include inquiry of persons
not under restraint. General on-the-scene questioning as to facts surrounding a crime or other general
questioning of citizens in the fact-finding process is
not affected by our holding. It is an act of responsible citizenship for individuals to give whatever
information they may have to aid in law enforcement." 384 U. S., at 477-478.
Consequently, we cannot accept the position of the
Court of Appeals in this case that proof of knowledge of
the right to refuse consent is a necessary prerequisite

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

to demonstrating a "voluntary" consent. Rather, it is
only by analyzing all the circumstances of an individual
consent that it can be ascertained whether in fact it Was
voluntary or -coerced. It is this careful sifting of the
unique facts and circumstances of each case that is evidenced in our prior decisions involving consent searches.
For example, in Davis v. United States, 328 U. S. 582,
federal agents enforcing wartime gasoline-rationing regulations, arrested a filling station operator and asked to see
his rationing coupons. , He eventually unlocked a room
where the agents discovered the coupons that formed
the basis for his conviction. The District Couit found
that the petitioner had consented to the search-that
although he had at 'first refused to turn the coupons
over, he had soon been persuaded to do so and that
force or threat of force had .not been emploked to
persuade him. Concluding that it could not be said
that this finding was erroneou, this Court, in an opinion
by MR. JUsTIcE"DouGIAs that. looked to all the circumstances surrounding the consent, affirmed the judgment
of -conviction: "The public character of the property,
the fact that the demand was'made during business hours
at the place of business where the coupons were required to be kept, the existence of the right to inspect,
th6 nature of the request, the fact that the initial refusal
to turn the coupons over was soon followed by acquiescence in the demand-these circumstances all support the
conclusion of the District Court." Id., at-593-594. See
also Zap v. United States, 328 U. S. 624.
Conversely, if under all the circumstances it has appeared that the consent was not, given voluntarly-that
it was coerced by threats or force, or granted qnly in
submission to a 'claim of lawful authority-then we have
found -the consent invalid and the search unreasonable.
See, e. g., Bumper v. North Carolina,391 U. S., at 548549; Johnson v. United, States, 333 U. S. 10; Amos v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

United States, 255 U. S. 313. In Bumper, a 66-year-old
Negro widow, who lived in a house located in a rural area
at the end of an isolated mile-long dirt road, allowed four
white law enforcement official to search her home after
they asserted they had a warrant to search the house.,
We held the alleged consent to be invalid, noting that
"[w]hen'a law eiforcement officer claims authority
to
search a home under a warrant, he announces in effect
that the occupant has xao right to resist the search. The
situation is instinct with coercionS-albeit colorebly lawful coercion. Where there is coercion there cannot be
consent." 391 U S., at 550.
Implicit in all of these cases is the recognition that
knowledge of a right to refuse is not a prerequisite of
a voluntary consent. If the prosecution were required
to demonstrate such knowledge, Davis and Zap could
not have found consent without evidence of that knowledge. And similarly if the failure to prove such knowledge were sufficient to show an ineffective consent, the
Amos, Johnson, and Bumper opinions would surely have
focused upon the subjective mental state of the person
who donsented. Yet they did not.
In short, neither this Court's prior cases, nor the traditional definition of "voluntariness" requires proof of
knowledge of a right to refuse as the sine qua non of an
effective consent.to a search.
"This view is bolstered by Coolidge v. ew Hampshire,403 U. S.
44,. There the Court determined that a suspect's wife was not
operatig as an agent of the State when she handed over her husband's guns and clothing to the police. We found nothing con-,
stitutionally suspect in the subjective forces that ipelled the spouse
to coopeiate. with the police. "Among these are the simple but
often powerful convention of openness and honesty, the feai that
secretive, behavior will intensify suspicion, and uncertainty as to
what course is most likely to be helpful to the absent spouse.' Id.,
at 488. "The tet . ..is whether Mrs. Coolidge, in light of all

,SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

C
It is said, however, that a "consent" is a. "waiver" of
a person's" rights under the Fourth and Fourteenth
.Amendments. The argument is that by allowing the
police to conduct a search, a person "waives" whatever
right he had to prevent the police from searching. Iis argued that under the doctrine of Johnson v. Zerbst,
3Q4 U. S. 458, 464, to establish such a "waiver" the State
must demonstrate "an intentional relinquishment or
abandonment of a known right or privilege."
But these standards were enunciated in Johnson in
the context of. the safeguards of a fair criminal trial.
Our cases do not reflect an uncritical demand for a
knowing,and intelligent waiver in ,every situation where
a person has failed to invoke a constitutional -rotection.
As Mr. Justice Black once observed for the Court:
"'Waiver' is -a vague .term used for a great variety of
purposes, good and bad, in the law." Green v. United
States, 355 U. S. 184, 191. With respect to procedural
due process, for example, the Court has acknowledged
that waiver is possible, while explicitly leaving open the
question whether a "knowing and intelligent" waiver
need be shown.1 6 See D. H. Overmyer Co. v. Frick Co.,
the circumstances of the case, must be regarded e, having acted as
an 'instrument' or agent of the state when she produced her husband's belongings." Id., at 487.
Just as it was necessary in Coolidge to analyze the totality of the
surrounding -circumstances to assess the validity of Mrs. Coolidge's
offer of evidence, it is equally necessary to assess all the circum-stances surrounding a search where consent is obtained in response
to an initial police question.
16
Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S.458, itself relied on three civil cases,
but none of those cases established the proposition that a waiver, to
be effective, must be knowing and intelligent. Hodges v. Easton, 106
U. S.408, which concerned the waiver pf a civil jury trial by the submission of a special verdict to the jiry, indicates only that" every

236 '

I

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

405 U. S. 174, 185-186; Fuentes v. Shevin, .407 -U.S.67,
94-96.17
The requirement of a "knowing" and "intelligent"
waiver was articulated in a case involving the validity of
a defendant's decision to forgo a right constitutionally
guaranteed to protect a fair trial and the reliability of
the truth-determining process. Johnson v. Zerbst,
supra, dealt with the denial of counsel in a federal criminal trial. There the Court held that under the Sixth
Amendmnent a criminal defendant is entitled to the assistance of counsel, and that if he lacks sufficient funds
to retain counsel, it'is the Government's obligation to
furnish him with a lawyer. As Mr. Justice Black wrote
for the Court: "The Sixth Amendment stands as a constant admonition that if the constitutional safeguards it
provides bd lost,. jutice will not 'still be done.' It embodies a realistic recognition of the obvious truth that
the average defendant does not have the professional
legal skill to protect himself whein brought before a tribunal with p4wer to take his life or liberty, wherein the
prosecution is~presented by experienced and learned counsel. That which is simple, orderly and necessary to the
lawyer, to tht untrained layman may appear intricate,
complex and mysterious." 304 U. S., at 462-463 (footnote
omitted). To preserve the fairness of the trial process
the Court.established an appropriately heavy burden on
the Government before waiver could be found--"ano inreasonable presumption should be indulged against . . .waiver."
Id., at 412. Aetna Ins. Co. v. Kennedy, 301 U. S. 389, is .to. the
same effect. Ohio Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 301'
U. S. 292, which involved the possible waiver of procedural due proc-ess rights, stands only for the proposition that: "We do not presume
acquiescence in the loss of fundamental rights." Id., at 307.
17 Cf. Parden v. Terminal R. Co., 377 U. S. 184 (operation :'of
common carrier railroad found to be'waiver of State's sovereign immunity despite objection that there was no "waiver" under Johnson);

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

tentional relinquishment or abandonment of a known
right or privilege." Id., at 464.
Almost without exception, the requirement of a knowing and intelligent waiver has been applied only to those
rights which the Constitution guarantees to a criminal
defendant in order to preserve a fair trial. 8 Hence, and
hardly surprisingly in view of the facts of Johnson itself,
the standard of a knowing and intelligent waiver has
most often been applied to test the validity of a waiver
2
of counsel, either at trial,"' or upon a guilty plea . 1
And the Court has also applied the Johnson criteria to
assess the effectiveness of a waiver of other trial rights
22
21
such as the right to, confrontation, to a jury trial,
and to a speedy trial,23 and the right to be free from
National Equipment Rental, Ltd. v. .zukhent, 375 U. S. 311 (valid
waiver of procedural due process found over objection of no compliance with Johnson). See also Employees v. Missouri Public
Health Dept., 411 U. S. 279, 296 (M&m,,m , Y., concurring in result).
18 One apparent exception was Marchetti v. United States, 390
U. S. 39, 51-52, where we found no meaningful waiver of the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination when a gambler was forced
to pay a wagering tax. We reasoned that there could be no choice
when the gambler was faced with the alternative of giving up
gambling or providing incriminatory information. Analytically,
therefore, although the Court cited Johnson, Marchetti turned on
the lack of a "voluntary" waiver rather than the lack of any "knowing" and "intelligent" waiver.
9 See, e. g., Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60; Adams v.
United States ex rel. McCann, 317 U. S. 269; Carnley v. Cochran,
369-U. S. 506; ef. Chessman v. Teets, 354U. S. 156 (no waiver of
counsel
shown at settlement of state court record).
20
See, e. g., Von Moltke v. Gillies,, 332 U. S. 708; Uveges v.
Pennsylvania, 335 U. S. 437; Moore v. Michigan, 355 U. S.. 155;
Boyd v. Dutton, 405 U. S. 1.
' See, e. g., Brookhart v. Janis, 384 U. S. 1; Barber v. Page, 390
U. S. 719.
22 See, e. g., Adams v. United States ex .rel. McCann, supra.
23 See, e. g., Barker v. Wingo, 407 U: S. 514.

OCTOBBER TERM, i972
Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

twice being placed in jeopardy.2' Guilty pleas have been
carefully scrutinized to determine whether the accused
knew and understood all the rights to which he would
be entitled at trial, and that he had intentionally chosen
to forgo" them. 2
And the Court has 'evaluated the
knowing and intelligent nature of the waiver of trial
rights in trial-type situations, such as the waiver of the
privilege against compulsory self-incrimination before
an -administrative. agency"2 or a congressional commit-2
tee," or the waiver of counsel in a juvenile procpeding. 1
The guarantees afforded a criminal defendant at trial
also protect him at certain stages before the actual trial,
and any alleged waiver must meet the strict standard of
an intentional relinquishment of a. "known" right. But
the "trial" guarantees that have been applied to the "pre24
See,
2

e. g., Green v. United States, 355 U. S.184.
5See, e. g., McCarthy v. United States, 394 U. S.459; Boylin
v. Alabama, 395 U. S.238.
Our cases concerning the validity of guilty pleas underscore the
fact that the question whether a person has acted "voluntarily" is
quite distinct from the question whether he has "waved" a trial
right., The former 'question, as we made clear in Brady v. United
States, 397 U. S., at 749, can be answered only by examining all
the relevant circumstances to determine if he has been coerced. The
latter question turns on the extent of his knowledge. We drew the
same distinction in McMann v. Richardson, 397 U. S.759, 766:
"A' conviction after a plea of guilty normally rests on' the defendant's own admission in open court that he committed the acts
with which he is charged. ... That admission may zrot be compelled, and since the plea is also a waiver of trial-and unless the
applicable law otherwise provides, a waiver of the right to contest:
the admissibility of any evidence the State might have offered against
the defendant-it must be an intelligent act 'done with sufficient"
awareness of the relevant circumstances and likely consequences.'
(Footnote
omitted.)
2
6See, e. g., Smith v. United States, 337 U. S. 137.
27
See, e. g., Emspac v. United States, 349 U. S.190.
28
See In re Gault, 387 U. S.'1, 42.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

trial' stage of the criminal process are similarly designed
to protect the fairness of the trial itself.
Hence, in United States v. Wade, 388 U. S. 218, and
Gilbert v. Californi, 388 U. S.263, the Court held "that
a post-indictment pretrial lineup at which the accused is
exhibited to identifying witnesses is a critical stage of
the criminal prosecution; that police conduct of such a
lineup without notice to and in the absence of his counsel
denies the accused his Sixth [and Fourteenth] Amend-.
ment right to counsel .... ." Id., at 272. Accordingly,
the Court indicated that the standard of a knowing and
intelligent waiver must be applied to test the waiver of
counsel at such a lineup. See United States v. Wade,
supra, at 237. The Court stressed the necessary interrelationship betweern the presence of counsel at a post-"
indictment lineup before trial and the protection of the
trial process itself:
"Insofar as the accused's conviction may rest on
a courtroom identification in fact the fruit of a sus;
pect pretrial identificatibn which the accused is helpless to subject to effective scrutiny at trial, the accused is deprived of that right of cross-examination
which is an essential safeguard to his right to confront the witnesses against him. Pointer v. Texas,
380 U. &.400. And even though cross-examination
is a precious safeguard to a fair trial, it cannot be
viewed as an -absolute assurance of accuracy and
reliability. Thus in the present context, where so
many variables and pitfalls exist, the first line of
defense' must be the prevention of unfairness and
the lessening of the hazards of eyewitness identification at the lineup itself. The trial which might
deterniine the accused's fate may well not be that
in the courtroom but that at the pretrial confrontation, with the State aligned against the accused, the

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 V.B.

witness the sole jury, and the accused unprotected
against the overreaching, intentional or unintentional,. and with little or no effective appeal from
the judgment there rendered by the witness- -'that's
the man."' Id., at 235-236.
And in Miranda v. Arizona, 384, U. S. 436, the Court
found that custodial interrogation by the police was inherently coercive, and consequently held that detailed
warnings were required to protect the privilege against
compulsory self-incrimination. The Court macie it clear
that the basis for decision was the need to protect the
fairness of the trial "itself:
"That counsel is present when statements are
taken from an individual during interrogation obviously enhances the integrity of the fact-finding
processes in court. The presence of an attorney, and
the warnings delivered to the individual, enable the
defendant under -otherwise compelling circumstances to tell his. story rithout fear, effectively, and
in a way that eliminates the evils in the interrogation process.. Without the protections flowing from
adequate warnings and the rights of counsel, 'all.
the careful safeguards erected around the giving of
testimony, whether by an accused or any other witness, would become empty formalities in a procedure
where the most compelling possible evidence of guilt,
a confession, would have already been obtained at
the unsupervised pleasure of the police.'" Id,, at
466.
TAe standards 6f J1onson were, therefore, found to be
a necessary prerequisite to a finding of a valid waiver.
See 384 U S., at 475479. Cf. Escobedo v. Illinos, 378
9
1U. S., at 490 n. 14.'
21As we have already noted, supra, at 232, Miranda itself involved.. interrogation of a suspect detained in custody and did not

SCHNECKLOTH z;. BUSTA.MONTE

218

Opiniodl of .the Court

There is a vast difference' between those rights that
protect a fair criminal trial and the rights giaranteed
under the Fourth Amendment. Nothing, either in the
purposes behind requiring a "knowing" and "intelligent"
waiver of trial rights, or in the practical application *of
such a requirement suggests that it ought to be extended to the constitutional guarantee against unreasonable searches hnd seizures.
A strict standard of waiver. has been applied to those
rights guaranteed to a criminal defendant to insure that
he will be accorded the greatest possible opportunity to
utilize every facet of the constitutional model*of a fair
criminal trial. Any trial conducted in derogation of
that model leaves open the possibility that the trial
reached an unfair result precisely because all the protections specified in the Constitution were not provided.
A prime example is the right to counsel. For with.out that right, 9, wholly innocent accused faces the
real and substantial danger that simply because of his
lack of legal expertise he may be convicted. As'Mr. Justice Harlan once wrote: "The sound reason why. [the
right to counsel] is so freely extended for a criminal trial
is the severe injustice risked by confronting an untrained
defendant with a range of technical points of law, evidence, and tactics familiar to the prosecutor but not to
concern the investigatory procedures of the police in general on-thescene questioning. 384 U. S., at 477.
- By the same token, the present case does not require a determination of the proper .standard to be applied in assessing the
validity of a search authorized solely by an alleged consent that is
obtained froim a person after he has been placed in custody. We do
note, however, that other courts have been particularly sensitive to
the heightened possibilities for coercion when the "consent" to a
search was given by a person in custody. See, e. g., Judd v. United
States, 89 U. S. App. D. C. 64, 66, 190 F. 2d 649, 651; Channel v.
United States, 285 F. 2d 217; Villano v. United States, 310 F. 2d
680, 684; United States v. Marrese, 336 F. 2d 501.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

himself." Miranda v. Arizona, supra, at 514 (dissenting
opinion).. The Constitution requires that every effort
be made to see to it that a defendant in a criminal ease
has not unknowingly relinquished the basic protections
that the Framers thought indispensable to a fair trial."
The protections of the Fourth Amendment are of a
wholly different order, and have nothing whatever to do
with promoting the fair ascertainment of truth at a'
criminal trial. Rather, as 'Mr. Justice Frankfurter's
opinion for the Court put it in Wolf v. Colorado, 338
U. S.' 25, 27, .the Fourth Amendment protects the "security of one's privacy against arbitrary intrusion by the
police . . ."
In declining to apply the exclusionary
rule of Mappj v. Ohio, 367 U. S. 643, to convictions that
had become final before. rendition of that decision, the'
Court emphasized that "there is no likelihood of unreliability or coercion present,in a search-and-seizure
case," Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U. S. 618, 638. In'Linkletter, the Court indicated that those cases that.had been
given retroactive effect went to "the fairness of the
trial-the very integrity of the fact-finding process.
Here . .. the fairness of the trial is not under attack."
Id., at 639. The Fourth Amendment "is not an adjunct
to the ascertainment of truth." The -guarantees of the
Fourth Amendment stand "as a protection of quite different constitutional values--values reflecting the .concern of our society for the right of each individual to be
let alone,. To recognize. this is no more than to accord
those values undiluted respect." Tehan v. UnitedStates
ex rel. Shott, 382 U. S. 406, 416.
Nor can it even be said that a search, as opposed to
an eventual trial, is somehow "unfair" if a person. consents to a search. While the Fourth dnd Fourteenth
.9 "[InJ the uniformly structured situation of the defendant whose
case is formally called for plea or trial, where, with everything to
be gained by the presence of counsel and 'no interest deserving con-

S8OECKLOTHv',. BUSTAMONTE
218

.243

Opiniun of the Court

Amendments limit the circumstances .under *Mich the
police can conduct a search, there is nothing constitutionally suspect in a person's voluntarily, allowing a search.

The actual conduct of the search may be precisely the
same as if the police had obtained a W-arrant.- And,
unlike those 'constitutional guarantees that. protect a
defendant at trial, it cannot be said every reasonable

presumption ought to be indulged against voluntary'
relinquishment. We have, only recently stated: "[llt
is no part of the policy underlying the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments to discourage citizens from aiding
to 'the utmost of their ability in the apprehension of
criminals." Coolidge v. New Hampshire,.403 U..S., at
488.. Rather, the community has a real tnterest in encouraging consent, for the resulting search may yield nec-

essary evidence for the solution and prosecution of crimes
evidence that may insure that a wholly innocent person is
rbt wrongly charged with a criminal offense. .
Those cases that have dealt with the application of
the Johnson v. Zerbst rule make clear that it would be
next to impossible to apply to ' consent search the standard of "an intentional relinquishment or abandonment of
a known right or privilege."
To be true to Jolhson
sideration to be lost, an inflexible rule serves, well." Friendly, The
Bill of Rights as a Code 'of Criminal Procedure, 53 CAlif. L. R#v.
929, 950.
31
While we have, occasionally referred to a consent search as a
"waiver," we have never used that term to mean "an intentiouia
relinquishment or abandonment of a knowu right or prilege.".
Aence, for example, in Johnep v. United States, 333 U. S. 10, this
Cdurt found the consent to be ineffective: 'Entry to defendant's living quarters, which was the beginning of -he search, was demanded
under color of office. It was granted in kubmissio- to authority
rather than as an understanding and intentional waiver of a constitutional right." Id., at 13. While the Court spoke in terms of
"waiver" it arrived at the conclusion that there had been no "waiver"
from an analysis of the totality of the objective circumstances--not*
from the absence of any express indication of Johnson's knowledge

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

and its progeny, there must be examination into the
knowing and understanding nature of the waiver, an

examination that was designed for a trial judge in the
structured atmosphere of a courtroom.
expressed it in Johnson:

As the Court

"The constitutional right of an accused to be represented by counsel invokes, of itself, the protection of
a trial court, in which the accused-whose life or.
liberty is at stake-is without counsel. This pro-

tecting duty imposes the serious and weighty responsibility upon the trial judge of determining
whether there is an intelligent and competent waiver
by the accused. While an accused may waive the
right to counsel, whether there is a proper waiver
should be clearly determined by the'trial court, and
it would be fitting and appropriate for that determination to appear upon the record." 304 U. S.,
at 465.32
of a right to refuse or the lack of explicit warnings. See also Amos
v. 3Unaed
States;25& U. S. 313.
2
The Court was even more explicit' in Von Moltke v. Gilies,
332 U. S., "at 723-724:
-"To discharge this duty [of assuring the intelligent nature of the
waiver] properly in light of the strong presumption against waiver
of the constitutional right to counsel, a judge must investigate as
long and as thoroughly as the circumstances of the case before him
demand. The fact that an accused may tell him that he is informed of his right to counsel and desires to waive this right does
not automatically end the-judge's responsibility. To be valid such
waiver must be made with an apprehension of the nature of the
charges, the statutory offenses included within them, the range of
allowable punishments thereunder, possible defenses to the charges
ahd circumstances in mitigation thereof, and all other facts essential"
to a broad understaiding of the whole matter. A judge can make
certain that an accused's professed waiver of counsel is understandingly and wisely made only from a penetrating and comprehensive
examination of all the circumstances under which such a plea is
tender~d '

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Opinion of the Court

It would be unrealistic to expect that in the informal,
unstructured ,context of a consent search, a policeman,
upon pain of tainting the evidence obtained, could make
the detailed type of examination demanded by Johnson. And, if for this reason a'diluted form of "waiver"
were found acceptable, that would itself be ample recognition of the fact that there is no universal standard
that must be applied in every situation where a person
forgoes a constitutional right.33
Similarly, a "waiver" approach to consent searches
would be thoroughly inconsistent with our decisions that
have approved "third party consents." In Coolidge v.

New Hampshire,403 U. S., at 487-490, where a wife surrendered to the police guns and clothing belonging to
her husband, we found nothing constitutionally impermissible in the admission of that evidence at trial since
the wife had not been coerced. Frarier v. Cupp, 394
U. S. 731, 740, held that evidence seized from the defendant's duffel bag in a search authorized by his cousin's
cor sent was admissible at trial. We found that the
defendant had assumed the risk that his cousin, with
whom he shared the bag, would allow the police to s~arch
it. See also Abel v. United States, 362 U. S. 217. And
33 It
seems clear that even a limited view of the demands of "an
intentional relinquishment or abandonment of a knc .vn right or
privilege" standard would inevitably lead to a requirement of detailed warnings before any consent search-a requirement all but
universally rejected to date. See nn. 13 and 14, supra. As the Court
stated in Miranda with respect tQ the privilege against compulsory
self-incrimination: "W~e will not pause to inquire in individual
cases whether the defendant was aware of his rights without a warning being given. Assessments of the knowledge the defendant possessed, based on information as to his age, education, intelligence,
or prior contact with authorities, can never be more than speculation; a warning is a clearcut fact." Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S.,
at 468-469 (footnote omitted). See United States v. Moderacki,
280 F. Supp. 633; United States v. Blalock, 255 F. Supp. 268.

OCTOBER TERM,.1972
Opinion of the Court

41LU.

in Hi v. Californ, 401 U. S. 797, 802-805, we -held"
that the* police had validly seized evidence from" the
petitioner's apartment incident to the arrest of a third party, since the police had probable cause to arrest the
petitioner, and reasonably, though mistakenly, believed
the man they had arrested was he. Yet it is inconceiwable that the Constitution could countenance the waiver
of a defendant's right to counsel by 4 third party, orthat a waiver- could be founcd because a trial judge reasonably,. though. mistakenly, believed a defendant had
waived his right to plead not guilty?'
In short, there is'nothing in the purposes or applica-,
tion of the waiver requirementsof Johnon v. Zerbst.
that justifies, much less compels, the easy equation of
a knowing waiver with a consent sear&. To make such
an equation is to generalize from. the broad rhetoric of
some of our decisions, and to ignore the substance of the
differing constitutional guarantees. We' decline to follow
what one judicial scholar has termed "the domino method
of constitutional adjudication'.. , wherein every explanatory statement in a previous opinion is made the
basis for 'extension to a wholly diffirent situation."
D
Much of what has already, been said disposes of .the
argument that the Court's decision in the'Miranda case
requires the conclusion that knowledge of a right to
refuse'is an in.dispensable element of . valid consent.
The considerations that informed the Court's holding in
Miranda are simply inapplicable in the present case.
31 our decision today is, "of course, concerned with what constitutes a valid consent, not who can consent. But, the constitutional Validity of third-party, consents' demonstrates the funda'Mentally different nature of a consent'search-f'rom the waiver of a
tia1 right.
5Friendly, supra, n. 30, at 950.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAVIONTE
218

,--247

Opinioit of the CMurt

In Miranda the Cpurt found that the techniques of
police questioning and the nature of custodial surroundings produce an inherently coercive situation. The
Court concluded that "[u]nless adequate protective devices are employed to dispel the compulsion inherent in
custodial surroundings, no statement obtained from the
defendant can truly be the product of his free choice."
384 U. S., at 458. And at another point the Court noted
that "without proper safeguardo the process of in-custody
interrogation of persons suspected or accused of crime
contains inherently compelling pressures which work to
undermine the individual's will to resist and to compel
him to speak where he would not otherwise do so freely."
Id., at 467.
In this case, there is no evidence of any inherently
coercive tactics--either- froma the nature of the police
questioning or the environment in which it took place.
Indeed, since consent searches will normally occur on a
person's own familiar territory, the specter of incommuricado police interrogation in some remote station
house is simply inapposite. 3 There is no reason to
believe, under circumstances such as are present here,
that the response to a policeman's question is presumptively coerced; and there'is, therefore, no reason to reject
the traditional test for determining the voluntariness
of a person's response. Miranda,of course, did not reach
investigative questioning of a person not, in custody,
which is most directly analogous to the situation of a
consent search, and it assuredly did not indicate that
such questioning ought to be deemed inherently coercive.
See supra, at 232.
It is also argued that the failure to require the Government to establish knowledge as a prerequisite to a valid
36 As noted above, supra, n. 29, the present case does not require
a determination of 'what effect custodial conditions might have on
a search authorized solely by an alleged conseftt. ยฐ

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

consent, will relegate the Fourth Amendment to the special province of "the sophisticated, the knowledgeable
and the privileged." We cannot agree. The traditional
definition of voluntariness we accept today has always
taken into account evidence of minimal schooling, low
intelligence, and the lack of any effective warnings to
a-person of his rights; and the voluntariness of any statement taken under those conditions has been carefully
scrutinized to determine whether it was in fact voluntarily given.Y

E

Our decision today is a narrow one. We hold only
that when the subject of a search is not in custody and
the State attempts to justify a search on the basis of
his consent, the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments
require that it demonstrate that *the consent was in fact
voluntarily given, and not the result -ofduress or coercion,
express or implied. Voluntariness is a question of fact
37 See, e. g., Cleuis v. Texas, 386 U. S.707; Culombe v. Connectic4t, 367 U. S. 568; ,Reck v. Pate, 367 U. S.433; Payne v.
Arkansas, 356 U. S. 560; Fikes v. Alabama, 352 U. S. 191; Harris
v. South Carolina,338 U S.68; Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596.
MR.Juswcz Wsrr

once answered a similar argument:

"The Court may be concarned with a narrower matter: the unknowing defendant who responds to police questioning because he
mistakenly believes that he must and that his admissions will not
be used against him.... The failure to ihform an accused that
he need not"answer and that his ansiers may be used against him
is very relevant'indeed to whether the disqlosures .are compelled.
Cases in this Court, to say thelezast, have never placed a premium
on ignorance of constitutional rights. If an accused is told he must
answer and does not know better, it would be very doubtful that
the resulting admissions could be used against him. When the accused has not been informed of his rights at all the Court characteristically and properly looks v ery closely at the surrounding circumstances." Escobedo v. Illinois, 378 'U. S. 478, 499 (WHr, J.,
dissenting).

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218'

BLACxKuN, J., concurring

to be determined from all the circumstances, and while
the subject's knowledge of a right to refuse is a factor
to be taken inti account, the prosecution is not required
to demonstrate such knowledge as a prerequisite to establishing a voluntary consent.38 Because the California
court followed these principles in affirming the respondent's conviction, and because the Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit in remanding for an evidentiary hearing
required more, its judgment must be reversed.
It isso ordered.
MR. JUsTIcE, BLACKMUN,

concurring.

I join the Court's opinion and its judgment.
At the time Kaufman v. United States, 394 U. S. 217
(1969), was decided, I, as a member of the. Court of
Appeals (but not of its panel) whose order was there
reversed, found myself in agreement with the views expressed by Mr. Justice Harlan, writing for -himself and
my Brother STEwART in dissent. Id., at 242. My
attitude has not changed in the four years that have
passed since Kaufman was decided.
Although I agree with nearly all that MR. TuSTicE
PowELL has to sa in his detailed and persuasive concurring opinion, post, p. 250, I refrain from joining it

at this time because, as MR.

JUsTIcE STzWART'S

opinion

reveals, it is not .necessary to reconsider Kaufman in
order to decide the present case.
31The State also urges us to hold that a violation of the exclusionary rule may not be raised by a state or federal prisoner in a
collateral attack on his conviction, and thus asks us to overturn
our contrary holdings in Kaufman v. United States, 394 U S. 217,
Whiteley v. Warden, 401 U. S. 560; Harris v. Nelson, 394 U. S. 286;
and'Mancusi v. DeForte, 392 U. S.364. Since we have found no
-valid Fouith and Fourteenth Amendment claim in this case, we
do not consider that question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
PowmL, J., concurring

412 U. S.

MR. JusmcE PowELL, with whom THE CHmF JUSTICE
and MR. JusicE REHNQUIST join, concurring.

While I join the opinion of the Court, it does not ad-,
dress what seems to me the overriding issue briefed and
argued in this case: the extent to which- federal habeas
corpus should be available to a state prisoner seeking to
exclude evidence from an allegedly unlawful search and
seizure. I would hold that federal collateral review of a
state prisoner's Fourth Amendment claims-claims which
rarely bear on innocence--should be confined solely to
the question of whether the petitioner was provided a
fair opportunity to raise and have adjudicated the question in state courts. In view of the importance of this
issue to our system of criminal justice, I think it appropriate to express my views.
Although petitions for federal habeas corpus assert a
wide variety of constitdtional questions, we are concerned in this case only with a Fourth Amendment
claim 'that an unlawful search occurred and . that
the state court erred in failing to- exclude the evidence obtained therefrom. A divided court in Kaufman v. United States, 394 U. S. 217 (1969), held that
collateral review of search-and-seizure claims was appropriate on motions filed by federal prisoners under 28
U. S. C. ยง 2255. TUntil Kaufman, a substantial Majority
of the federal courts of appeals had considered that claims
of unlawful search and seizure "'are not proper matters
to be presented by a motion to vacate sentence under
ยง 2255 .... ."' Id., at 220. The rationale of this view
was fairly summarized by the Court:
"The denial of Fourth Amendment protection
against unreasonable searches and seizures, the Gov-

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Powm,

J., concurring

ernment's argument rns, is of a different nature from
denials of other constitutional rights which we have
held subject to collateral attack by federal prisoners.
,For unlike a claim of denial of effective counsel or of
violation of the privilege against self incriminatidn,
as examples, a claim of 'illegal search and seizure does
not impugn the integrity of the fact-finding process or
challenge evidence as inherently unreliable; rather,
the exclusion of illegally seized evidence is simply a"
prophylactic device intended generally to deter
Fourth Amendment violatfons by law enforcement
officers.' IM., at 224.
In rejecting this rationale, the Court noted that under
prior decisions "the federal habeas remedy extends to
state prisoners alleging that unconstitutionally obtained"
evidence was admitted against them at trial," I and concluded that there was no basis for- restricting "access by
federal prisonefs'with illegal search-and-seizure. claims
to federal collteraFieii-mdies,-while placing no similar
restriction on access by state prisoners." Id., at 225,226. In short, on petitioi .for habeas 'corpus or c01lateral review filed in a federal district court, whether by
state prisoners under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2254 or federal prisoners under ยง 2255, the present rule is that Fourth Amendment claims may be asserted and the exclusionary rule
must be applied in precisely the same maniner as on"direct
review. Neither the history or purpose 6f habeas corpus,
the desired prophylactic utility of the exclusionary rule as
applied to Fourth Amendment claims, nor any sound
reason relevant .to the administration of criminal justice
in our federal system justifies such a power.
2Cases cited'as examples included Mancusi v. DeForte, 392 U. S.
364 (1968); Carafas v., LaVallee. 391 U. S. 234 (1968); Warden v.
Hayden, 387 U. S. 294 (1967).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
PowELL, J., concurring

412 U. S.

II
The federal review involved in this Fourth Amendment case goes well beyond the traditional purpose of
the writ of habeas corpus. Much of the present perception of habeas corpus stems from a revisionist view
of the historic function that writ was meant to perform.
The critical historical argument has focused on the nature
of the writ at the time of its incorporation in our Constitution and at the. time of the Habeas Corpus Act of'
1867, the direct ancestor of contemporary habeas corpus
statutes.2 In Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 426 (1963), the
Court interpreted the writ's historic position as follows:
"At the time the privilege of the writ was written
into the Federal Constitution it was settled that
the writ lay to test any restraint contrary to fundamental law, which in England stemmed ultimately
from Magna Charta but in this country was embodied in the written Constitution. Congress in
1867 sought to provide a~federal forum for state
prisoners having constitutional defenses by extending the habeas corpus powers of the federal courts
to their constitutional maximum. Obedient to this
purpose, we have consistently held that federal court
2The

Act of Feb. 5, 1867, c. 28, ยง 1, 14 Stat. 385, provided that

"the several courts of the United States ...

within their respective

jurisdictions, in addition to the authority already conferred by law,
shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases where
any person may be restrained of his or her liberty in violation of
the constitution, or of any treaty or law of the United States . .. ."
Federal habeas review for those in state custody is now authorized
by 28 U. S. C. ยง'2254 (a):
"The Supreme Court, a Justice thereof, a circuit judge, or a district
court shall entertain au application for a writ of habeas corpus in
behalf of a person in custody pursuant to the judgment of a State
court only on the ground that he is in custody in violation of the
Constitution or laws or treaties of the United States."

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

PowEr, J., concurring

jurisdiction is conferred by the allegation of an unconstitutional restraint and is not defeated by anything that may occur in the state court proceedings."
If. this were a correct interpretatiQn of the relevant
history, the present wide scope accorded the writ would
have arguable support, despite the impressive reasons to
the contrary. But recent scholarship has cast grave doubt
on Fay's version of the writ's historic function.
It has been established that both the Framers of the
Constitution and the authors of the 1867 Act expected
that the scope of habeas corpus would be determined with
reference to the writ's historic, common-law development. Mr. Chief Justice Marshall early referred to the
common-law conception of the, writ in determining its
constitutional and statutory scope, Ex parte Bolman,
4 Cranch 75, R3-94 (1807); Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet.
193, 201-202 (1830), and Professor Oaks has noted that
"when'the 1867 Congress provided that persons restrained
of their liberty in violation of the Constitution could obtain a writ of habeas corpus from a federal- court, it undoubtedly intended--excepi to the extent the legislation
provided otherwise--to incorporate the common-law uses
and functions of this remedy." 4
It thus becomes important to understand exactly what
was the common-law scope of the writ both when embraced by our Constitution and incorporated into the
Habeas Corpus A&t of 1867. Two respected scholars have
recently explored lrecisely these questions.' Their efforts
3

Bator, Finality in Criminal Law 'and Federal Habeas Corpus for
State. Prisoners, 76 Harv. L. Rev. 441, 466 (1963); Oaks, Legal
History in the High Court-Habeas Corpus, 64 Mich. L. Rev. 451,
451-456 (1966).
4
.Oaks, supra, n. 3, at 452.
*Professor. Paul M. Bator of Harvard Law School and Professor
Dallin H. Oaks formerly of the Uhiversity of Chicago School of
Law. Citations to the relevant articles are in n. 3, supra.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1972Pow L , J., concurring

412 U.'S.

have been both meticulous and revealing. Their conclusions differ significantly from those of the Court In
Fay v. Nod, that habeas corpus traditionally has been
available- "to remedy any kind of governmental restraint
contrary to fundameital law." 372 U. S., at 405.
The considerable evidence marshaled by these scholars
need not be restated here. Professor Oaks makes a con.
vincing case that under the common law of habeas corpus
at the time-of the adoption of the Constitution, "once a
person had been convicted by a superior court of general
jurisdiction, a court disposing of a habeas corpus petition
could not go behind the conviction for any purpose other
than to verify the formal jurisdiction of the committing
court."I Certaiily that was what Mr. -Qhief Justice
Marshall understood when he. stated
"This writ i[habeas corpus] is, as has been said, in
the nature of a writ of error which brings up the
body of the prisoner, with the cause of commitment.
The court can undoubtedly inquire into the' sufficiehcy of that cause; but if it be the.judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction, especially a judgmefi.t withdrawn .by - law from the revision 6f ,this
court, is not that judgment in itself sufficient cause?
Can the court, upon this writ, look beyond the judgment, and te-examine the charges on which it was.
rendered. A.judgment, in its nature, c9jcludes the
subject on which it is rendered, and prohunces
the 'law of the case. The judgment of a court -of
record whose jurisdictio is'final, is as conclusive on
all the world as the judgment of this court would be.
It is as conclusive on this court as it is on other
courts. It puts an end to inquiry concerning the
fact, by deciding it." Ex parte Watkfns, 3 Pet., at
202-203.
SOaks, supra, n. 3, at 468.

SOHNECKLOTH v. BTUSTAMONTE
218

POWmLL, J., concurring

The respect shown under common law for the finality
of the judgment of a committing court at the time of
the Constitution and in the early 19th century did not,
of course, explicitly c6ntemplate the operation of habeas
corpus in the context of federal-state relations. Federal
habeas review for state prisoners was not available until
passage of the Habeas Corpus Act of 1867. Yet there
is no evidence that Congress intended that Act to jettison
the respect theretofore shown by a reviewing court for
prior judgments by a court of proper jurisdiction. The
Act "received only the most perfunctory attention and
consideration in the Congress; indeed, there were complaints that its effects could not be understood at all." 7
In fact, as Professor Bator notes, it would*require overwhelming evidence, which simply is not present, to conclude that the 1867 Congress intended "to tear habeas
corpus entirely out of the context of its historical meaning ad scope and convert it into an ordinary, writ of error
with respect to all federal questions' in all criminal
cases." 8 Rather, the House Judiciary Committee when
it reviewed the Act in 1884 understood that it was not
"contemplated by its framers or .. . properly ... construed to authorize the ov"rthrow of the final judgments
of the State courts of general jurisdiction, by the inferior
Federal judges....
Much, of course, has transpired since that first Habeas
Corpus Act. See Fay v. Noia, 372 U. S., at 449-463 (Harlan, J, dissenting)-. The scope of federal habeas corpus
for state prisoners has evolved from *a quite limited inquiry into whether the committing state court ha d jurisdiction, Andrews v. ,Swartz, 156 U. S.272 (1895); In re
"Bator,
supra, n. 3, at 475-476.
8
Id., at 475.
9H. R. Rep. No. 730, 48th Cong., 1st Sess., 5 (1884), quoted in
Bator, supra, n. 3, at 477.

O TOBER TERIM, 1972

Powzm, J., concurring

412 U. S.

Moran, 203 U. S. 96 (1906), to whether the applicant
had been given an adequate opportunity in state court
to raise his constitutional claims, Frank v. Mangum, 237
'U. S. 309 (1915); and finally to actual redetermination
in federal court of state court ruling on a wide variety
of constitutional contentions, Brouw v. 'Allen, 344 U. S.
443 (1953).
No one would now suggest that this
Court be imprisoned by every particular of habeas corpus
as it existed in the late 18th and 19th centuries.. But recognition of that reality does not liberate us from all his"torical restraint. The historical evidence demonstrates
that the purposes of the writ, at the time of the adoption
of the Constitution, were tempered by a due regard for
the finality of the judgment- of the committing court.
-This regard was maintained substantially intact when
Congress, in the Habeas Corpus Act of 1867, first extended
federal habeas review to the delicate interrelations -f our
dual court systems.
-.

.

ili

Recent decisions, however, have tended to depreciate
the importance of the finality of prior judgments in
ciiminal cases. Kaufman, 394 U. S., at 228; Sanders v.
United States, 373 U. S. 1, 8 (1963); Fay, supra, at 424.
This trend may be a justifiable evolution of the use of
habeas corpus where the one in state custody raises a
constitutional claim bearing on his innocence. But the
justification for disregarding the historic scope and function of the writ is measurably less apparent in the typical
Fourth Amendment claim asserted on collateral attack.
In this latter case, a convicted defendant is most often
asking society to redetermine a matter with no bearing at
all on the basic justice of his incarceration.
Habeas corpus indeed should provide the added assurance for a free society that no innocent man suffers an unconstitutional loss of liberty. The Court in Fay described

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE

257

PownLL, J., concurring

218

habeas corpus as a remedy for "whatever society deems to be intolerable restraints," and recognized, that those to
whom the writ should be granted "are persons whom society has grievously wronged and for whom belated liberation is little enough compensation." Id., at 401-402,
441. The Court there acknowledged that the centralxeason for the writ lay in remedying injustice to -the individual. Recent commentators have iecognized the same
core concept, one noting that "where personal liberty is
involved, a democratic society . .,. insists that.it is less
important to reach an unshakable decision than to do justice (emphasis added)," 10 and another extolling the use
of the writ in Leyra v. Denno, 347 U, S.- 556 .(1954), with
the 'assertion that "[b]ut for federal habeas corpus, these
iwo men woul4 have gone to their deaths for crimes of
which they were frund not guilty."' '
I am aware that history, reveals no exact tie of the
writ of habeas corpus to a constitutional claim relating
to innocence or guilt. Traditionally, the writ was ui'available even for many constitutional pleas grounded on
a claimant's innocence, while many contemporary proponents of expanded employment of the writ would permit its issuance for one whose desered confinement was
never in -doubt. We are now faced, however, with the
task of accommodating the historic respect for the
finality of the judgment of a committing court with
recent Court expansions of the role of the writ. This
accommodation can Dest be achieved, with due regard to
all of the values implicated, by recourse to the central
*reason for habeas cbrpus: the affording_. of means,

-

-

10

PolIak, Proposals to Curtail Federal Habeas Corpus for State
Prisoners: Collateral Attack on the Great Writ, 66 Yale L. J. 50, 65
(1956)..
"IReitz, Federal Habeas Corpus: Postconviction Rpmedy for State
Prisoners, 108 U. Pa. L. Rev. 461, 497 (1960).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

258

Pownr,'J:; concurring

412 U. S.

through an'extraordinary writ, of redressing an unj st
incarceration.
Federal habeas review of search and seizure claims is
rarely relevant to this reason. Prisoners raising Fourth
Amendment claims collaterally usually are quite justly
detained. The evidence, obtained from searches and
seizures is often "the clearest proof of guilt" with a very
high content of reliability."
Rarely is there any contention that the search rendered the evidence unreliable or
that its mbans cast doubt upon the prisoner's guilt. The
words of Mr. Justice Black drive home the point:
-

"A claim of illegar search and seizure under the
Fourth Amendment is crucially different from many
other constitutional rights; ordinarily the evidence
seized can in no way have been rendered untrustworthy by the means of its seizure and indeed often
this evidence alone establishes beyond virtually any
shadow of a doubt that ,the defendant is guilty."
Kaufman v. United States, 394 U. S., at 237 (1969)
(dissenting 6pinion).

Habeas corpus review of search and seizure claims thus
brings a deficiency of our system of criminal justice into
sharp focus: a convicted defendant asserting, no jonstitutional claim bearing on innocence and relying solely
on an alleged unlawful search, is now entitled to federal
habeas review of state conviction and the likelihood of
release if the reviewing court concludes that the search
was unlawful. That federal courts would actually redetermine constitutional claims bearing no relation to the
prisoner's innocence with the pos~ibility of releasing him
from custody if the search is held unlawful not only
*defeats our societal interest in a rational legal system
but serves no compensating ends of persofial justice.
Is Innocence Irrelevant? Collateral Attack on Criminal Judgments, 38 U. Chi. L. Rev. 142, 160 (1970).
12Friendly,

SOHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

PowmL,, J., concurring

IV
This unprecedented extension of habeas corpus far beyond its historie bounds and in disregard of the writ's
central purpose is an anomaly in our system sought to be
justifed only by extrinsic reasons which will be addressed in Part V of this opinion. But first let us look
at the costs of this anomaly-costs in terms of serious
intrusions on other, societal values. It is these other
values that have been subordinated -not to furth6r justice on behalf of arguably innocent persons but all too
often to serve meihanistic rules'quite unrelated to justice in a particular case. Nor are these neglected values
unimportant to justice in the broadest sense or to our
system of Government.' They include (i) the most effective utilization of limited judicial resources, (ii) the necessity of finality in criminal trials, (iii) the minimiiation
of friction between our federal and state systems of justice, and (iv) the maintenance of.the constitutional bal-โข
ance upon which the doctrine of federalism is founded.
When raised on federal habeas, a claim generally has
been considered by two or more tiers of state courts. It
is the solemn duty of these courts, no less than federal
ones, to safeguard personal liberties and',consider federal
claims in accord with federal law. The task which federal courts are asked to.perform on habeas is thus most
often one that has or should have been done before. The
presumption that "if a job can be well done once, it
should not be done twice" is sound and one calculated
to utilize best "the intellectual, moral, and political resources involved in the legal system."1
13 Bator, supra, n. 3, at 451.
The conventional justifications for extending federal habeas corpus
to afford collateral review of state court judgments were summarized
in Kaufman v. United States, 394 U. S. 217, 225-226, as follows:
"[T]he necessity that federal courts have the 'last say' with re-

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
PowFu, J., concurring

412 U.19.

Those resources are limited but demand on them constantly increases. There is an insistent call on" federal
courts both in civil actions, many novel and complex,
which affect intimately the lives of great numbers of
people and in original criminal trials and appeals which
deserve our most careful attention." To the extent the
federal courts are required to re-examine claims on collatspect to questions of federal law, the inadequacy of state procedures
to raise and preserve federal claims, the concern that state judges
may be unsympathetic to federally created rights, the institutional
constraints on the exercise of this Court's certiorari jurisdiction to
review state convictions .... "
Each of these justifications has merit in certain situations, althoough
the asserted inadequacy of state procedures and unsympathetic
attitude of state judges are far less realistic grounds of .concern
than in years past. The issue, fundamentally, is one'of perspective
and a rational balancing. The appropriateness of federal collateral
review is evident in meny instances. But it hardly follows that, in
order to promote the ends of individual justice which are the foremost concerns of the writ, it is necessary to extend the scope of
habeas review indiscriminately. This is especially true with respect
to federal review of Fourth Amendment claims with the consequent
denigration of other important societal values and interests.
14
Briefly, civil filings in United States district courts increased
from 58,293 in 1961 to 96,173 in 1972 Total appeals commenced
in the United Stptes courts of appeals advanced from 4,204 in
1961 to 14,535 in 1972. Petitions for federal habeas corpus filed by
state prisoners jumped from 1,020 in 1961 to 7,949 in 1972. Though
- habeas petitions filed by state prisoners did decline from 9,063 in
1970 to 7,949 in 1972, the overall increase from 1,000 at the start
of the last decade is formidable. Furthermore6 civil rights prisoner
petitions under 42 U. S. C. ยง 1983 increased from 1,072 to 3,348 in
the past five years. Some of these challenged the fact and duration
of confinement and soug t release from prison and must now be
brought as actions for habeas corpus, Preiserv. Rodriguez, 411'U. S.
475 (1973). See 1972 Annual Report of the Director of the Admin-.
istrati ve Office of the United States Courts 11-5, H-22, 1U-28-32.

SCHNECKLOTf v. BUSTAMONTE
218

PoweLL, J., concurring

eral attack,5 they deprive primary litigants of their
prompt availability nd mature reflection. After all, the
resources of our system are finite: their overextension
jeopardizes the care and quality essential to fair
I
adjudication.
The present scope of federal habeas corpus also has
worked to defeat the interest of society in a rational point
of termination for criminal litigation. Professor Amsterdam has identified some of the finality interests at
stake in collateral proceedings:
"They involv6 (a) duplication of judicial effort;
(b)- delay in setting the criminal proceeding at rest;
(c) inconvenience and possibly danger in transporting a prisoner to the sentencing court for hearing;
(d) postponed litigation of fact, hence litigation
which will often be less reliable in reproducing the
facts (i) respecting the postconviction claim itself,
and (ii) respectirg the issue of guilt if the collateral
attack succeeds in a form which allows retrial. . .
He concluded that:
"Mn combination, these finality considerations
arIount to a more or less persuasive argument
ag i.nst the cognizability of any particular collateral
. Cau JusTicE BuRrER has illustrated the absurd extent to
which relitigation is sometimes allowed:
'qn some of these multiple trial an 'appeal cases [on collateral
attack] the accused eontinued his warfare with society for eight,
vine, ten years and more. In one case... more than fifty appellate
judges reviewed the case on appeals." Address before the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, N. Y. L. J., Feb. 19, 1970,
p. 1 .
The English courts, "long admirea for [their] fair, treatment of
accused persons," have never so etended habeas corpus. Friendly,
supra; n. 12, at 145.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
PoEMr,

J., concurring

412 U. S.

claim, the strength of the argument depending upon
the nature of the claim,, the manner of its treatment (if any) in the conviction proceedings, and
the circumstances under which collateral litigation
must be had."' I
No effective judicial system can afford to concede the
continuing theoretical possibility that there is error in
every trial and that every incarceration is unfounded. At
some point the law must convey to those in custody that a
wrong has been committed, that consequent puhishment
has been imposed, that one should no longer look back
with the view to resurrecting every imaginable basis for
further litigation but rather should, look forward to rehabilitation and to becoming a constructive citizen.Yr
Nowhere should the merit of this view be more selfevident than in collateral attack on an allegedly unlawful
search and seizure, where the petitioner often asks society
to redetermine a claim with no relationship at all to the
justness-of his confinement. Professor Amsterdam has
noted that "for reasons which are common to all search
and-seizure claims," he "would hold even a slight finality
interestsufficient to deny the collateral remedy." "I But,
in fact, a-strong finality interest militates against allow7-6
Amsterdam, Search, Seizure, and Section 2255: A Comment,
112 U. Pa. L. Rev. 378, 383-384 (1964). The article addresses the
problem of'collateral relief for federal prisoners, but its rationale
applies forcefully to federal habeas for state prisoners as well.
1 Mr. Justice Harlan put it very well:
"Both the individual criminal defendant and society have an inteiest
in insuring that there will at some point be the certainty that comes
with an end to litigation, and that attention will ultimately be focused
not on whether a conviction was free. from error but rather on
whether-the prisoner can be restored to a useful place in the community!' Sanders v. United States, 373 U. S. 1, 24-25 (1963)
(disseting opinion).
Supran. 16, at 388.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Pownmrz, J., concurring

ing collateral review of search-and-seizute claims. Apart
from the duplication of resources inherent in most habeas
corpus proceedings, the validity of a search-and-seizure
claim frequently hinges on a complex matrix of events
which may be difficult indeed for the habeas court to
disinter especially where, as often happens, the trial occurred years before the *collateral attack and the state
record is thinly sketched."9
Finally, the present scope of habeas corpus tends to
undermine the values inherent in our federal system of
government. To the extent that every state criminal
judgment is to be bubject indefinitely to broad and repetitive federal oversight, we render the actions of state
courts a serious disrespect in derogation of the constitutional balance between the two systems.- - The present
expansive scope of federal habeas review has prompted
no small friction between state and federal judiciaries.
Justice Paul C. Reardon of the Massachusetts Supreme

-

The latte occurs for various reasons, namely, failure of the
accused to raise the claim at trial, a determination by the state
courts that the claim did not merit a hearing, or a recent decision
of this Court extending rights of the accused (although, on Fourth
Amendment claims, such decisions have seldom been applied retroactively, see, e. g., Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U. S. 618 (1965)).
20
The. dispersion of power between State and Federal Governments
is constitutionally premised, as Mr. Justice Harlan observed:
"[I]t would surely be shallow not to recognize that the structure
of our political system accounts no less for the free society we have.
Indeed, it was upon the structure of government that the founders
prinarily focused in writing the Constitution. Out -of bitter experience they were suspicious of every form of all-powerful central au-thority and they sought to assure that :such a government would
hever exist in this country by structuring the federal establishment
so as to diffuse power between the executive, legislative, and judicial
branches. The difft'sion of power between federal and state authority
serves the same ends and takes on added significance as the size of
the federal bureaucracy continues to grow." Thoughts at a Dedica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
POWE LL, J, concurring

412 U. S.

Judicial Court and then President of the National Center
for State Courts, in identifying problems between the two
systems, noted bluntly that "[t]he first, without question,
is the effect of Federal habeas corpus proceedings on State
courts." He spoke of the "humiliation of review from
the full bench of the highest State appellate court to a
single United States District Court judge." Such broad
federal habeas powers encourage in his view the "growing
denigration of the State courts and their functions in the
public mind."

21

,

In so speaking Justice Reardon echoed

the words of Professor Bator:
"I could imagine.nothing more subversive of a judge's
sense of responsibility, of the inner- subjective conscientiousness which is so essential a part of the
difficult and subtle art of judging well, than an intion: Keeping'the Judicial Function in Balance, 49 A. B. A. J. 943,
943-944 (1963).
The Justice recognized that problems of habeas corpus jurisdiction were "of constitutional dimensions going to the heart of the
division of judicial powers in a federal system." Fay v. Noia, 372
U. S. 391, 464 (1963) (dissenting opinion). Nor have such perceptions ever been the product of but a single Justice. As the Court
noted in a historic decision on the conflicting realms of state and
federal judicial jower:
"[T]he Constitution of the United States . . recogni~es and preserves the autonomy and independence of the States-independence
in their legislative and independence in their judicial departments.
Supervision over either the legislative or the judicial action of the
States is in no case permissible except as to matters by the Constitution specifically authorized or delegated to the United States. Any
interference with either, except as thus permitted, is an invasion *of
the authority of the State and, to that extent, a denial of'its independence." Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, 78-79 (1938),
quoting Mr. Justice Field in Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149
U. S.368, 401 (1893).
21 Address at the annual dinner of the Section of Judicial Administration, American Bar Association, San Francisco, California,
Aug. 14, 1972, pp. 5, 9, and 10.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAIONTE
218

PowBLL, J., concurring
discriminate acceptance of the notion that all the
2
shots will always be called by someone else." 1

In my view, this Court has few more pressing responsibilities than to restore the mutual respect and the
balanced .sharing of responsibility between the state and
federal courts which our tradition and the Constitution
itself so wisely contemplate. This can be accomplished
without retreat from our inherited insistence that the
writ of habeas corpus retain its full vitality as a. means
of redressing injustice.
This case involves only a relatively narrow aspect of
thi6 appropriate reach of habeas corpus. The specific
issue before us, and the only one that~ need be decided
at this time, is the extent to whichf a state prisoner may
obtain federal habeas corpu review of a Fourth Amendment claim. Whatever may be formulated as a. more
comprehensive answer to the important broader issues
(whether by clarifying legislation or in subsequent decisions), Mr. Justide Black has suggested what seems to
me to be the appropriate threshold requirement in a case
of this kind:
"I would always require that .the convicted defendant raise the kind of constitutional claim that
casts sompe shadow of a doubt on -his guilt." Kaufman v. United States, 394 U. S., at 242 (dissenting
opinion).
In a perceptive analysis, Judge Henry J. Friendly expressed a similar view. He would draw the line against
habeas corpus review in the absence of a "colorable claim
of innocence":
"[W]ith a few important exceptions, convictions
should be subject to collateral attack only when
22

Bator, supra, n.. 3, at 451.

oCTOBER TM, 1972"
PowEzm, J., concurring

412 U.S.

the prisoner supplements his constitutional plea with
a colorable claim of innocence."
Where there is no constitutional claim bearing on innocence, the inquiry of the federal court on habeas review of
a state prisoner's Fourth Amendment claim should be confined solely to the question whether the defendant was
provided a fair opportunity in the state courts to raise
and have adjudicated the Fourth Amendment' claim.
Limiting the scope of habeas review in this manner would
reduce the role of the federal courts in determining the
merits of constitutional claims with no relation to a petitioner's innecence and contribute to the restoration of
recently neglected values to their proper place in our
criminal justice system.
V.
The importance of the values referred to above is not
questioned. What, theli, is. the reason which has
prompted this Court in recent decisions to extend habeas
corpus to Fourth Amendment claims lagely in disregard
of its history as well as these values? In addressing
Mr. Juqtice Black's dissenting view that constitutional
claims raised collaterally should be relevant to the petitioner's innocence, the majority.in Kaufman noted:
'It[Mr. Justice. Ilack's view] brings into question
the propriety of the exclusionary rule itself. The
application of that rule is not made to turn on. the
2

Friendly, supra, n. 12, at 142. -Judge Friendly's thesis, as he
develops it, would encompass collateral attack broadly both within
the federal system and with respect to federal habeas for state pris-"
oners. Subject to the exceptions carefully delineatefl in his article,.
Judge Friendly would apply the criterion of a "colorable showing of
innocence" to any collateral attack of a conviction, including claims
under the Fifth and Sixth as well as the Fourth Amendments. Id.,
t 151-157. In this case we need not consider anything other than
the Fourth Amendment claims.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

PowmL, 3., concurring

existence of a possibility of innocence; rather, exclusion of illegally obtained evidence is deemed necessary to protect the right of all citizens, not merely
the citizen on-trial, to be secure against unreasonable
searches and seizures." 394 U. S., at 229. (Emphasis added.)
The exclusionary rule has occasioned much criticism,
largely on grounds that its application permits guilty defendants to go free and law-breaking officers to go unpunished.2 ' The oft-asserted reason for the rule is to
deter illegal searches and seizures by the police, Elkins v.
United States, 364 U. S. 206, 217 (1960); Mapp v. Ohio,
367 U. S. 643, 656 (1961); Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U. S.
618, 636 (1965); Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1, 29 (1968).1
24

See Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S.
388, 411 (Butona, C. J., dissenting); Paulsen, The Exclusionary Rule
and Misconduct by the Police, 52 J.Crim. L. C. & P. S. 255, 256
(1961); see also J.Wilson, Varieties of Police Behavior (1968); 8
J.Wigiore, Evidence ยง 2184, pp. 51-52 (J.McNaughton ed. 196.1),
and H. Friendly, Benchmarks 260-261 (1967), suggesting that even
at trial the exclusionary rule should be limited to exclusion of "the
fruit of activity intentionally or flagrantly illegal." But see Kamisar,
Public Safety v. Individual Liberties: Some "Facts" and 'Theories;"
53 J.Crim. L. C. & P. S.171, 188-190 (1962), and Kamisar, On-the
Tactics of Police-Prosecution Oriented Critics of the Courts, 49
Cornell
L. Q. 436 (1964).
25
These expressions antedated the only scholarly empirical research,
Mn. JuSTICE STEwArr having noted in Elkins v. United States, 364
U. S. 206, 218 (1960), that "[elmpirical statistics are not available"
as to the efficacy of the rule-a situation which continued until Professor Oaks' study. Indeed, in referring to the basis for the exclusionary rule, Professor Oaks noted that it has been supported, not
by facts, but by "recourse to polemic, rhetoric, and intuition."
Studying the Exclusionary Rule in Search and Seizure, 37 U. Chi.
L. Rev. 665, 755 (1970). See also Burger, Who Will Watch the
Watchman?, 14 Am. U. L.Rev. 1 (1964).
I mention the controversy over the exclusionary rule-not to suggest here its total abandonment (certainly not in th&asence 6f

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
PownuL, J., concurring

412 U. S.

The efficacy of this deterrent function, however, has been
brought into serious question by recent empirical research. Whatever the rule's merits on an initial trial
8
and appeal 2 -a
question not in issue here-the case for
some other deterrent to deviant police conduct) -but rather to emphasize its precarious and undemonstrated basis, especially when
applied to a Fourth Amendment claim on federal habeas review of
a state court decision.
26 The most searching empirical study of the efficacy of the exclusionary rule was made by Professor Oaks, who concluded that
"[a]s a device for directly deterring illegal searches and seizures
by the police, the exclusionary rule is a failure." Supra, n. 25, at
755 Professor Oaks,' though recognizing that conclusive data may
not yet be available, summarized the results of his study as follows:
"There is no reason to expect the rule to have any direct effect on
the overwhelming majority of pojice conduct that is not meant to
result in prosecutions, and there is hardly any evidence that the rule
exerts any deterrent effect onthe small fraction of law enforcement
activity that is aimed at prosecution. What is known about the
deterrent effect of sanctions suggests that the exclusionary rule operates under conditions that are extremely unfavorable for deterring
the police. The harshest criticism of the rule is that it is ineffective.
It is the sole means of enforcing the essential guarantees of freedom
from unrehsonable arrests and searches and seizures by law enforcement officers, and it is a failure in that vital task.
"The use of the exclusionary rule imposes excessive costs on the
criminal justice system. It provides no recompense for the innocent
and it frees the guilty. It creates the occasion and incentive for
largescale lying by law enforcement officers. rt diverts the focus
of the crminal prosecution from the guilt or innocence of the defendant to a trial of the police. Only a system with limitless patience
with irrationality could tolerate the fact that where there has been
one wrong, the defendant's, he will be punished, but where there
have been two wrongs, the defendant's and the officer's, both will go
free. This would not be an excessive cost for an effective remedy
against police misconduct, but it is a prohibitive price *to pay for
an illusory one." Id., at 755.
Despite a conviction that the exclusionary rule is a "failure," Professor Oaks would not abolish it altogether until there is sompthing
to take its place. He recommends "an effective tort remedy against

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

PowELL, J., concurring

collateral application of the rule is an anemic one. On
collateral attack, the exclusionary rule retains its major
liabilities while the asserted benefit of the rule dissolves.
For whatever deterrent function the rule may serve when
applied on trial and appeal becomes greatly attenuated
when, months or years afterward, the claim surfaces for
collateral review. The impermissible conduct has long
since occurred, and the belated wrist slap of state police
by federal courts harms no -one but society on whom the
convicted criminal is newly released. 7
Searches and seizures are an opaque area of the law:
flagrant Fourth Amendment abuses will rarely escape
detection but there is a vast twilight zone with respect to
which one Justice has stated that our own "decisions...
are hardly notable for their predictability," " and another
has observed that this Court was "'bifurcating elements
too infinitesimal to be split.' "29 Serious Fourth Amendment infractions can be dealt with by state judges or
by this Court on direct review. But the nonfrivolous
Fourth Amendment claims that survive for collateral attack are most likely to be in this grey, twilight area,
where the law is difficult for courts to apply, let alone
for the policeman on the beat to understand. This is
the offending officer or his employer." He notes that such a "tort
remedy would give court an occasion to rule on the content of constitutional rights (the Canadian example shows how), and it would
provide the real consequence needed to give credibiliky to the guarantee." Id., at 756-757.
27 "As the exclusionary rule is applied time after time, it seems
that its deterrent efficacy at some stage reaches a point of diminishing returns, and beyond that point its continued application is a
public
nuisance." Amsterdam, sitpra, n. 16, at 389:
2
11Ker v. California,374 U. S. 23, 45 (1963) (Harlan, J., concurring
in result).
29 Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U. S. 443, 493 (1971) (opinion
of BuwmGE,

C. J.).

THE CHIEF JUsTicE: was quoting Mr. Justice

Stone of the Minnesota Supreme Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

PowmL, J., concurring

412 U. S.

precisely the type of case where the deterrent function
of the exclusionary rule is least efficacious, and where
there is the least justificatioii for freeing a duly convicted
defendant.
Our decisions have not encouraged the thought that
what ma be an appropriate .constitutional policy in one
context aukomatically becomes such for all times and all
seasons. In Linkletter v. Walker, 381 V. S., at 629, the
Court recognized the compellng practical considerations
against retroactive application of the exclusionary rule.
Rather than viewing the rule as having eternal constitutional verity, the Court decided to
"weigh the merits and demerits in each case by
looking to the prior history of the rule in questiop,
its purpose and effect, and-whether retrospective operation will further or retard its operation. We
believe that this approach is particularly correct with
reference to the Fourth Amendment's prohibitions
as to unreasonable searches and seizures." Id., at
629.
Such a pragmatic approach compelled the Court to
conclude that the rule's deterrent function would not be
advanced by jts retrospective application:."
"The misconduct of the police prior to Mapp has
already occurred and will not be corrected by releasing the prisoners involed ....
Finally, the ruptured privacy of' the victims' homes and effects
cannot be restored. Reparation comes too late."
Id., at 637.
See also Desist v. United States, 394 U. S. 244 (1969).'
The same practical, particularized analysis of the exclusionary rule's necessity also was evident in Walder v.
United States, 347 U. S.,62 (1954), when the Court per30

Friendly, supra, n. 12, At 162-163.

SCIHNECKLTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

PowEnL, J., concurring

mitted the Government to utilize unlawfully seized evidence to impeach the credibility of a defendant who had
first testified broadly in his own defense. The Court
held, in effect, that the policies protected by the exclusionary rule were outweighed in this case by the need,
to prevent perjury and assure the integrity of proceedings
at trial. The Court concluded that to apply the exclusionary rule in such circumstances "would be a perversion
of the Fourth Amendment." Id., at 65. The judgment in Walder revealed most pointedly that the policies
behind the exclusionary rule are neither absolute nor allencompassing, but rather must be weighed and balanced
against a competing a nd more compelling policy, namely
the need for effective determination of truth at trial.
In sum: the case for the exclusionary rule varies with
the' setting in which it is imposed. It makes little sense
to extend the Mapp exclusionary rule to a federal habeas
proceeding where its asserted deterrent effect must be
least efficacious, and its obvious harmful consequences
persist -in full force.
VI
The final inquiry is whether the above position conforms to 28 U. S. C. ยง 2254 (a) which provides:
"The Supreme Court, a Justice thereof, a circuit
judge, or a; district court shall entertain an application for a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a
person in custody pursuant to the judgment of a
State court only. on the ground that: he is in custody
in violation of the Constitution or laws or treaties
of the United States.'
The trend in recent years has witnessed a proliferation
of constitutional rights, "a vast expansion of the claims
of error in criminal cases for which a resourceful defense
lawyer can find a constitutional basis." 11 Federal ha3

l Frendly, supra, n. 12, at -156.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

PowFJz, J., concurring

412 U. S.

bess jurisdiction has been extended far beyond anyone's
expectation or intendment when the concept of "custody
in violation' of the Constitution," now in ยง 2254 (a), first
appeared in federal law over a century ago.2
Mr Justice Black was clearly correct in noting that "not
every conviction based in part on a denial of a constitutional right is subject to attack by habeas corpus or ยง 2255
proceedings after a conviction has become final." Kaufman, 394 U. S., at 232 (dissenting opinion).. No evidence exists that Congress intended every allegation of a
constitutional violation to afford an appropriate basis for
collateral review: indeed, the latest revisions of the Federal Habeas Corpus statute in 1966 " and the enactment
of ยง 2254 (a) came at the time a majority of the courts of
appeals held that claims of unlawful search and seizure
"'are not propbr matters to be presented by a motion to
vacate sentence under ยง 2255 but can only be properly
presented by appeal from the conviction."' Id., at 220,
quoting Warren v. UnitedStates, 311 F. 2d 673, 675 (CA8
1963) .
Though the.precise discussion in Kaufman concerned the claims of federal prisoners under ยง 2255, the
then-existing principle of a distinction between review of
search-and-seizure claims in direct and collateral proceedings clearly existed.
There is no indication that Congress intended to wipe
out this distinction. Indeed, the broad purpose of the
1966 amendments pointed in the opposite direction. The
report of the Senate Judiciary Committee notes that:
"Although only a small number of these [habeas]
applications have been found meritorious, the ap32 See Part II, sipra.
33 The 1966 revision of the Federal Habeas Corpus statute enacted among other things, the present 28 U. S. C. ยงยง 2254 (a),
(d), (e), and (f).
1S.ee Kaufman, supra, at 220-221, nn. 3 ind 4, for a listing of
the respective positions of the courts of appeals.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE

218

PowELT,, J., concurring
plications ip their totality have imposed a heavy
The bill seeks
burden on the Federal courts....
to alleviate the unnecessary burden by introducing
a greater degree of finality of judgments in habeas
corpus proceedings." S. Rep. No. 1797, 89th Cong.,
2d Sess., 2 (1966) .1

The House Report states siniilarly that:
"While in only a small number of these applications have the petitioners been successful, they
nevertheless have not only imposed an unnecessary
burden on the work of the Federal courti but have
also greatly interfered with the procedures and processes of the State courts by delaying, in many cases,
the proper enforcement of their judgments." H. R.
Rep. No. 1892, 89th Cong., 2d Sess., 5 (1966).
This most recent congressional expression on the scope
of federal habeas corpus reflected the sentiment, shared
alike by judges' and legislators, that the writ has
overrun its historical banks to inundate the dockets of
federal courts and denigrate the role of state .courts.
Though Congress did not address the precise question at hand, nothi g in ยง 2254 (a), the state of the
law at the time of its adoption, or the historical uses of
the language "custody in violation of the Constitution"
from which ยง 2254 (a) is derived," compels a holding that
rulings of state courts on claims of unlawful search and
3

- The letter from Circuit Judge Orie L. Phillips, Chairman of the
Committee on Habeas Corpus of the Judicial Conference of the
Uuiited States, which sponsored the 1966 legislation, to the Chairman
of the Senate Subcommittee on Improvements in Judicial Macbinry
also strongly emphasized the necessity of expediting "the determination in Federal courts of nonmeritorious and repetitious applications
for the writ by State court prisoners." S. Rep. No. 1797, 89th
Cong., 2d Sess., 5 (1966).
36 See Part II, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Pow pr,J., concurring

412 U. S.

seizure must be reviewed and redetermined in collateral
proceedings.
VII
Perhaps'no single development of the criminal law has
had consequences so profound as the escalating use, over
the past two decades, of federal habeas corpus to reopen
and readjudicate state criminal judgments. I have commented in Part IV above on the far-reaching conse-"
quences: the burden on the system,- in terms of demands on the courts, prosecutors, defense attorneys, and'
other personnel and facilities; the absence of efficiency and
finality in the criminal process, frustrating both the deterrent function of the law and the effectiveness of rehabilitation; the undue subordination of state courts, with the
resulting exacerbation of state-federal relations; and the
subtle erosion of the doctrine of federalism itself. Perhaps the single most disquieting consequence of openended habeas review is reflected in the prescience of
Mr. Justice Jackson's warning that "[i]t must prejudice
the occasional meritorious application to be buried in a
flood of worthless ones." 38
If these consequences flowed from the safeguarding of'
'constitutional claims of innocence they should, -of course,
be accepted as a tolerable price to pay for cherished standardยง of justice at the same 'time that efforts are pursued
to find more rational procedures. Yet, as illustrated by
the case before us today, the question bn habeas corpus is
37 Mr. Justice Jackson, concurring in the result 20 years ago in
Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S. 443, 532 (1953), lamented the "floods of
stale, frivolous and repetitious petitions [for federal habeas corpus by
state prisoners which] inundate the docket of the lower courts and.
swell our own." Id., at 536.. The inundation which concerned
Mr. Justice Jackson consisted of 541 such petitions. In 1971; the
latest year for which figures are available, state prisoners alone filed.
7949 petitions for hpbeas in federal district courts,, over 14 times
the number filect when Mr. Justice jackson voiced his misgivings.
38Brown v. Alkn, apra,at 537.

SCENECKIOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

Doums, J., dissenting

too rarely whether the prisoner was innocent of the crime
for which he was convicted " and too frequently whether
some evidence of undoubted probative value has been
admitted in violation of an exclusionary rule ritualistically
applied without due regard to whether it has the slightest
likelihood of achieving its avowed prophylactic purpose.
It is this paradox of a system, which so often seems to
subordinate substance to form, that increasingly pro-'
yokes criticism and lack of confidence. Indeed, it is
difficult to explain why a system of criminal justice deserves respect which allows repetitive -reviews of convictions long since held to have be~n final at 'the end of
the normal process of trial and appeal where the basis
for re-examination is not even that the convicted defendant wa's innocent. There has been a halo about the
"Great Writ" that no one would wish to dim. Yet one
must wonder whether the stretching of its use far beyond
any justifiable purpose will not in the end weaken rather
than stren.gthen the writs vitality.
MR. JusmcE DouGLAs, dissenting.
I agree with the Court of Appeals that "verbal assent" to a search is not enough, that the fact that consent
was given to the search does not imply that the suspect
knew that the alternative of a refusal existed. 448 F. 2d
699, 700. As that court stated:
"[U]nder many circumstances a reasonable person
might read an officer's 'May I' as the courteous ex3 Commenting on this distortion.-of our criminal justice system,
Justice Walter Schaefer of the Illinois Supreme Court, has said:
"What bothers me is that almost never do we have a genuine issue
of guilt or innocence today. The system has so changed that what
we are doing in the courtroom is trying the conduct of the police and
that of the prosecutor all along the line." Address before Center
for the Study of Democratic Institutions, June 1968, cited by
Friendly, supra, n.. 12, at 145 n. 12.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

BRFNNAN, J., dissenting

412 U. S.

pression of a demand backed by force of law." Id.,
at 701.
A considerable constitutional guarantee rides on this
narrow issue. At the time of the search there was no
probable cause to believe that the car contained contraband or other unlawful articles. The car was stopped
only because a headlight and the license plate light were
burned out. The car belonged to Alcala's brother, from
whom it was borrowed, and Alcala had a driver's license.
Traffic citations were appropriately issued. The car was
searched, the present record showing that Alcala consented. But whether Alcala knew he had the right to
refuse, we do not know. All the Court of Appeals did
was to remand the case to the District Court for a finding-and if necessary, a hearing on that issue.
I would let the case go forward 'on that basis. -The
long, time-consuming contest in this Court might well
wash out. At least 'we could be assured that, if it came'
back, we would not be rendering an advisory opinion.
Had I voted to grant this petition, I would suggest we
dismiss it as improvidently granted. But, being in the
minority, I am bound by the Rule of Four.
MR. JUSTICE BRuNNAN,

dissenting.

The Fourth Amendment specifically guarantees,'" [t]he
right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures . . ." We have consistently held that governmental searches conducted pursuant to a validly obtained
warrant or reasonably incident to a valid' arrest do not
violate this guarantee. Here, however, as the Court
itself recognizes, no search warrant was obtained and the
State does not even suggest "that there was probable
cause to search the vehicle or that the search was incident to a valid arrest of any of the occupants." Ante,

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

MARSHALr, J., dissenting

at 227-228. As a result, the search of the vehicle can
be justified solely on the ground that the owner's brother
gave his consent-that is, that he waived his Fourth
Amendment right "to be secure" against an otherwise
"unreasonable" search. The Court holds today that an
individual can effectively waive this right even though
he is totally ignorant of the fact that, in the absence of his
consent, such invasions of his privacy would be constitutionally prohibited. 'It wholly escapes me how our citizens can meaningfully be said to have waived something
as precious as a constitutional guarantee without ever
being aware of its existence. In my view, the Court's
conclusion is supported neither by "linguistics," nor by
"epistemology," nor, indeed, by "common sense." I respectfully dissent.
MR. JusTicE MA SHALL, dissenting.

Several years ago, MR. JusTcR S %WART reminded us
that "[t]he Constitution guarantees . . . a society of
free choice. ยงuch a society presupposes the capacity of
its members to choose." Ginsberg v. New York, 390
U. S. 629, 649 (1968) (concurring in result). I would
have thought that the capacity to choose necessarily
depends upon knowledge that there is a choice to be
made. But today the Court reaches the curious result
that one can choose to relinquish a constitutional rightthe right to be free of unreasonable searches--without
knowing that he has the alternative of refusing to accede
to a police request to search." I cannot agree, and
therefore dissent.
'The Court holds that Alcala's consent to search was shown, in
the state court proceedings, to be constititionally valid as a relinquishment of-his Fourth Amendment rights. In those proceedings,
no evidence was adduced as to Alcala's knowledge of his right to
refuse assent. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, whose
judgment is today reversed, would have required petitioner to pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MxAsRALa,

J., dissenting

412 U. S.

I believe that the Court misstates the true issue in
this case. That issue is not, as the Court suggests,
whether the police overbore Alcala's will in eliciting
his consent, but rather, -whether a simple statement of
assent to search, without more,2 shofild be sufficient to
permit the police to search and thus act as a relinquishment of Alcala's constitutional right to exclude' the
police.3 This Court has always scrutinized with great
care claims that a person has forgone the opportunity
to assert constitutional rights. See, e. g., Fuentes v.
Shevin, 407 U. S. 67 (1972),; D. H. Overmyer Co. v. Frick
Co., 405 U. S. 174 (1972); Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U. S.
238 (1969); carnley v. G ochran, 369 U. S. 506 (1962).
I see no reason to give thi claim that a person consented
to a search any less rigorotts scrutiny. Every case in this
Court involving this kind 6f search has heretofore spoken
duce such evidence. As discussed infra, at 286, the Court of
Appeals did not hold that the police must inform a subject of investigation of his right to refuse assent as an essential predicate to their
effort
to secure consent to search.
2
The Court concedes that the police lacked probable cause to
search. Ante, at 227-228. At the time the search was conducted,
there were three police vehicles near the car. 270 Cal. App.
2d 648, 651, 76 Cal. Rptr. 17, 19 (1969). Perhaps the police in
fact- had some reason, not disclosed in this record, to believe that a
search would turn up incriminating evidence. But it is also possible
that the late hour and the number of men in the car suggested to the
first officer-on the scdne that it would be prudent to wait until other
officers had arrived before investigating any further.
3 Because Bustamonte was charged with possessing stolen checks,
found in the search at which he was present, he has standing to
object to the search even though he claims no posseisory or
proprietary interest in the car. Jones v. United States, 362 U. S.
257 (1960). Cf. People v. Ibarra, 60 Cal. 2d 460, 386 P. 2d 487
(1965).
(1963); People v. Perez, 62 Cal. 2d 769, 401 P. 2d 934
1

SOHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

ATSAHAL,

of-consent as a waiver2

J., dissenting

See, e. g., Amos v. United

"
.,tates,255 'U. S. 313, 317 (1921); Zap v. United States,

328 U. S. 624, 628 (1946); Xohnson v. United States,
333 U. S. 10, 13 (1948).' Perhaps one skilled in fl4

The Court reads Dam v. United States, 328 U. S. 582 (1946),
as upholding a search like the one in this case on the basis of
consent.' But it was central to the reasoning of the Court in that case
that the items seized were the property of the Government temporarily in Davis' custody. See id., at 587-593. The agents of the
Government were thus simply demanding that property to which
they had a lawful claim be returned to them. Because of this,.the
Court held that "permissible limits of persuasion are not so narrow
as where .privatepapers are sought." Id., at 593. The opinibn of
the Court therefore explicitly disclaimed stating a general rule for
ordinary searchesfor evidence. That the distinction, for purposes
of Fourth Amendment analysis, between mere evidence and contraband or instrumentalities has now been abolished, Warden v.
Hayden, 387 U. S. 294 (1967), is no reason to disregard the fact
that when Davis was decided, that distinction played an important
role in shaping analysis.
In Zap v. 'United States, 328 U. S. 624, 628 (1946), the Court
held that 'fwhen petitioner, in order to obtain the Government's
business, specifically agreed to permit inspection of his accounts
and records, he voluntariy waived such claim to privacy which
he otherwise might have had as respects business docunents
related to those contracts." (Emphasis added.) Because Zap-had
signed a contract specifically providing that his records would be
open at all time to the Government, he had indeed waived his right
to keep those records private. Cf, United States v. iswel, 406 U. S.
311 (1972).
5Aside from Zap and Davis,' supra, n. 4, I have found no cases
decided by this Court explicitly upholding a search based on the
consent of the defendant. It is hardly surprising, then, that "[t]he
approach of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit finds no'
support in any of our decisions," ante, at 229. But in nearly every
case discussing the problem at length, the Court referred to consent
as a waiver. And it mischaracterizes those cases to describe them
as analyzing the totality of the circumstances, ante, at 243 n. 31.
See infra, at 283-284.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MARsALL,

J., dissenting

412 U. S.

'guistics or epistemology can disregard those comments,
but I find them hard to ignore.
To begin it is important to understand that the opinion of ffe Court is misleading in its treatment of the
issue here in three ways. First, it derives its criterion
for determining when a verbal statement of assent to
search operates as a relinquishment of a person's right
to preclude entry from a justification of consent searches
that is-inconsistent with oui treatment in earlier cases
9f exceptions to the requirements of the Fourth Amendment, and that is not responsive to the unique nature
of the consent-search exception. Second, it applies a
standard of voluntariness that wias developed in a very
different context, where the standard was based on policies different from those involved in this case. Third,
it mischaracterizes our prior cases involving consent
searches.
A
The Court assumes that the issue in this case is: what
are the standards by which courts are to determine that
consent is voluntarily given? It then imports into th
law of search and seizure standards developed to decide
entirely different questions about coerced: confessions.8
The Fifth Amendment, in terms, provides that no
person "shall be compelled'in any criminal case to be
a witness against himself." Nor is the interest protected
by the Due Process- Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment any different. The inquiry in a case where a con-.
fession is challenged as' having been elicited in an unconstitutional, manner is, therefore, whether the behavior
.'That this application of the "domino" method of adjudication is
misguided is shown, I believe, by the fact that the phrase "voluntary
consent" seems redundant in a way that the phrase "voluntary con-

fession" does not.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

MAsaALL, J., dissenting

of the police amounted to compulsion of the defendant.'
Because of the nature of the right to be free of com"pulsion,it would be pointless to ask whether a defendant
knew of it before he made a statement; no sane person
would knowingly relinquish a right to be free of compulsion. Thus, the questions of compulsion and of violation of the right itself are inextricably intertwined.
The cases involving coerced confessions, therefore, pass
over the question of knowledge of-that right as irrelevant,
and turn directly to the question of compulsion.
Miranda v. Arizona, '384 U. S. 436 (1966), confirms
this analysis. There the Court held'that certain warnings must be given to suspects prior to their interrogation so that the inherently coercive nature of in-custody
questioning would be diminished by the suspect's knowledge.that he could remain silent. But, although those
warnings, of course, convey information about various
rights of the accuised, the information is intended only
to protect the suspect against acceding to the other
coercive aspects of police interrogation. While we would
not ordinarily think that a'suspect could waive his right
to be free of coercion, for example, we do permit suspects
to waive the rights they are informed of by police warnings, on the belief that such information in itself sufficiently decreases the chance that a statement would be
elicited by compulsion. Id., at 475-476. Thus, nothing
the defendant did in the cases involving coerced confessions was taken to operate as a relinquisament of
his rights; certainly the fact that the defendant made
7

The Court used the terms "voluntary" or "involuntary" in such
cases as shorthand labels for an assessment of the police behavior in
light of the particular characteristics of the individual defendant because behavior that might not be coercive of some individuals might
nonetheless .compel others to give incriminating statements. See,
e. g., Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596, 599 (1948); Stein v. New York,
346 U. S.156, 185 (1953); Fikes v. Alabama, 352 U. S. 191 (1957).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Mns HAL,

J., dissenting

412 U. S.'

a statement -was never taken to be a relinquishment
of the right to be free of coercion
B
In contrast, this case deals not with "coercion," but
with "consent," a subtly different concept to which different standards have been applied in the past. Freedom.
from coercion is a substantive right, guaranteed by the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Consent, however,
is a mechanism by which substantive requirements, otherwise applicable, are avoided. In the context of the
Fourth Amendment, the relevant substantive requirements are that searches be conducted only after evidence
justifying them has been submitted to an impartial
magistrate for a determination of probable cause. There
are, of course, exceptions to these requirements based
on a variety of exigent circumstances that make it im- practical to invalidate a search simply because the police
failed to get a warrant.! But none of the exceptions
8 1, of course, agree with the Court's analysis to the extent that it
treats a verbal expression of assent as-no true consent when it is
elicited through compulsion. Ante, at 229. Since, in my view, it is
just as unconstitutional to search after coercing consent as it is to
search after uninformed consent, I agree with the rationale of Amos
-v. United States, 255 U. S. 313 (1921), Johnson v. United States,
333 U. S. 10 (1948), and Bumper v. North Carolina,391 U. S. 543
(1968). That an alternative rationale might have been used in
those cases seems iome irrelevant.
"See, e. g., Coolidge "w New Hampshire, 403 U. S. 443'(1971);
Chimel v. California, 395 U. S. 752 (1969); Warden v. Htayden,.387
U. S. 294,(1967).
In Chimel, we explained that searches incident to arrest were
justified by the need to protect officers from attacks by the persons
they have arrested, and by the need to assure that easily destructible
evidence in the reach of the suspect will not be destroyed. -395
U. S., at 762-763. And in Coolidge, we said that searches of automobiles on the highway are justified because an alerted criminal
might easily drive the evidence away while a warant was sought.

SCHNECKLOETH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

MAsHALL,

J., dissenting

relating to the overriding needs of law enf6rcement are
applicable when a search is justified solely by consent.
On the contrary, -the needs of law enforcement are
significantly more attenuated, for probable cause to
search may be lacking but a search- permitted if the
subject's consent has been obtained. Thus, consent
searches *are permitted, not because such an exception
to the requirements of probable cause and warrant is
essential to proper law enforcement, but' because we
permit our citizens to choose whether or not they wish
to exercise their constitutional rights. Our prior decisions simply do not support the view'that a meaningful
choice has been made solely because no coercion was
brought to bear on the subject.
For example, in Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U. S.
543 (1968), foiir law enforcement officers went to the
home of Bumper's grandiinother. They announced that
they had a search warrant, and she permitted them to
enter. Subsequently the prosecutor chose not to rely
on the warrant, ltit aitempted to justify the search by
the woman's consent. Weheld that consent could not
be established "by shobing no more than acquiescence
to a claim of lawful authority," id., at 548-549. We
did not there inquire into all the circumstances, but focused on a single fact, the claim of authority,,even though
the grandmother testified that no threats were made.
Id., at 547 n. 8. "It may be that, on the facts of that
case, her consent was under all the circumstances in.voluntary, but it is plain ,that we did not apply the
test adopted by the Court today. And, whatever the
posture of the case when it reached this Courim, it could,
403.U. S., at 459-462. In neither situation is police convenience
alone a sufficient reason for establishing an exception to the warrant
requirement. Yet the Court today seems to say that convenience
alone justifies consent searches.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MARSH ZA,J.,

dissenting

412 U. S.

not be said that the police in Bumper acted in a threatening or coercive manner, for they did have the warrant
they said they had; the decision not to rely on it was
made long after the search, when the case came into
court."0
That case makes it clear that police officers may not
courteously order the subject of a search simply to stand
aside while the officers carry out a search they have
settled on. Yet there would be no coercion or brutality
in giving that order. No interests that the Court today
recognizes would be damaged in such a search. Thus,
all the police must do is conduct what will inevitably
be a charade of asking for consent. If they display any
firmness at all, a verbal expression of assent will undoubtedly be forthcoming. I cannot believe that the
protections of, the Constitution mean so little.

"II
My approach to the .case is straightforward and, to
me, obviously required by the notion of consent as a
relinquishment of Fourth Amendment rights. I am at
,aloss to understand why conseht "cannot be taken
literally to mean a 'knowing? choice." Ante, at 224. In
fact, I have difficulty in comprehending how a decision
made without knowledge of available alternatives can
be treated as a choice at all.
If consent to search means that a person has chosen
to forgo his right to exclude the police from the place
they seek to search, it follows that his consent cannot
10

The Court's interpretation of Johnson v. United States, 333
U. S. 10 (1948), a similar case, is baffling. The Court in Johnson
did not in fact analyze the totality of the circumstances, as the
Court now argues, ante, at 243 n. 31; the single fact that the
,police claimed authority to search when in truth they lacked such
authority conclusively established that no valid consent had been
given.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

be considered a meaningful choice unless he knew that
he could in fact exclude the police. The Court appears,
however, to reject even the modest proposition that, if
the subject of a search convinces the trier of fact that
he did not know of his right to refuse assent to a police*
request for permission to search, the search must be
held unconstitutional. For it says only that "knowledge
of the right to refuse consent is one factor to be taken
into account." Ante, at 227. - I find this incomprehensible. I can think of no other situation in which we would
say that a person agreed to some course of action if
he convinced us 'that he did not know that theie was
some other course he might have pursued. I would
therefore hold, at a minimum, that the prosecution may
not rely on a purported consent to search if the subject
of the search did not know that he could refuse to give"
consent. That, I think, is the import of Bumper v.
North Carolina,supra. Where the police claim authority to search yet in fact lack such authority, the subject
does not know that he may permissibly refuse them
entry, 'nd it -is this lack of knowledge that invalidates
the consent.
If one accepts this view, the question then is a simple
one: must the Government show that the subject knew
of his rights, or must the subject show, that he lacked
such knowledge?
I think that any fair allocation of the burden would
require that it be placed on the prosecution. On this
question, the Court indulges in what might be called
the "straw man" method of adjudication. The Court
responds to this suggestion by overinflating the burden.
And, when it is suggested that the prosecution'sburden
of proof could be easily satisfied if the police informed
the subject of his rights,- the Court responds by refusing to require the police to make a "detailed" inquiry.
Ante, at 245. If the Court- candidly faced the real

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
IAsH

, J., dissenting

412 U. S.

question of allocating the burden of proof, neither of
these maneuvers would be available to it.
If the burden is placed on the defendant, all the
subject can do is to testify that he did not know of
his rights. And I doubt that many trial judges will
find for the defendant simply on te basis of that testimony. Precisely because the evidence is very hard to
come by, courts have traditionally been reluctant to require a party to prove negatives such as the lack of
knowledge. See, e. g., 9 J. Wigmore, Evidence 274 (3d
ed. 1940); F. James, Civil Procedure ยง 7.8 (1965); E.
Morgan, Some Problems of Proof Under the AngloAmerican System of Litigation 75-76 (1956).
In contrast, there are several ways by which the subject's knowledge of his rights may be shown. The subject may affirmatively demonstrate such knowledge by
his responses at the time the search took place, as in
United States v. Curiale, .414 F. 2d 744 (CA2 1969).
Where, as in this case, the person giving consent is
someone other than the defendant, the prosecution may
require him to testify under oathr. Denials of knowledge
.may be disproved by establishing that the subject had,
in the recent past, demonstrated his knowledge of his
rights, for example, by refusing entry when it was requested by the police. The prior experience or training
of the subject might in some cases support an inference
that he knew of his right to exclude the police.
The burden on the prosecutor would disappear, of
course, if the police, at the time they requested consent
to search, also told the subject'that he had a right to
refuse consent and that his decision to refuse would
be respected. The Courts assertions to the contrary
notwithstanding, there is nothing impractical about this
method of satisfying the prosecution's burden of proof.V 1
SThe proposition rejected in the cases cited by the Court in nn.
13 and 14, was that, as in Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. B. 436 (1966),

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218

MAsHAm, J., dissenting

It must be emphasized that the decision about informing
the subject of his rights would lie with the officers seeking consent. If they believed that providing such -information would impede their investigation, they might
simply ask for consent, taking the risk that at some later
date the prosecutor would be unable to prove that the
subject knew of his rights or that some other basis for
the sehrch existed.
The Court contends that if an officer paused to inform
the subject of his rights, the informality of the exchange'
would be destroyed. I doubt that a. simple statement
by an officer of an individuals right to refuse consent
would do much to alter the informality of the exchange,
except to alert the 'subject to a fact that he surely is
entitled to know. It is not without significance that for
many years the agents of .the Federal Bureau of Investigation have routinely informed'subjects of their right
to refuse consent, when they request consent to 'search.
Note, Consent Searches: A Reappraisal After Mirahda
v. Arizona, 67 Col. L. Rev. 130, 143 n. 75 -(1967) (citing
letter from J. Edgar Hoover). The reported cases in which
the police have informed subjects of their right to refuse
consent show, also, that the information can be given
without disrupting the casual flow of events. See, e. g.,
United States v. Miller, 395 F. 2d 116 (CA7 1968). What
evidence, there is; then, rather strongly suggests that
nothing disastrous would happen if the police, before
requesting consent; informed the subject 'that he had
a statement to the subject of his rights must be giv6n as an indispensable prerequisite to a request for 'consent to search. This case
does not require us to address that proposition, for all that is involv'ed here is the contention that the prosecution cQuld satisfy the
burden of esfiblishing the knowledge of the right to iefuse consent
by showing that the police advised the subject of a~search, that is
sought to be justified by consent, of that right.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MAnsRAm,

J., dissenting

412 U.S.

a right to refuse consent and that his refusal would be

respected."z
I must conclude, with some reluctance, that when the
Court speaks of practicality, what it really is talking
of is the continued ability of the police to capitalize on
the ignorance of citizens so as to accomplish by subterfuge what they could not achieve by relying only on the
knowing relinquishment of constitutional rights. Of
course it would be "practical" for the police to ignore
the commands of the Fourth Amendment, if by practicality we mean that more criminals will be apprehended,
even though the constitutional rights of innocent people
also go by the board. But such a practical advantage
is achieved only at the cost of permitting the police to
disregard the limitations that the Constitution places on
their behavior, a cost that a constitutional democracy
cannot long absorb.
I find nothing in the opinion of the Court to dispel my
belief that, in such a case, as the Court of Appeals for
' 5 The Court's suggestion that it would be "unrealistic" to re,quire the officers to make "the detailed type of examination" involved when a court considers whether a defendant has waived a
trial right, ante, at 245, deserves little comment. The question
before us relates to the inquiry to be made in court when the prosecution seeks to establish that consent was given. I therefore do not
address the Court's strained argument that one may waive constitutional rights without making a knowing and intentional choice so
long as the rights do not relate to the 'fairness of a criminal trial.
I would suggest, however, that that argument is fundamentally inconsistent with the law of unconstitutional conditions. See, e. g.,
Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S. 593 (1972); Shapiro v. Thompson,
394 U. S. 618 (1969); Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U. S. 398 (1963);
Speiser v. Randall, 357 U. S. 513 (1958). The discussion of United
States v. Wade, 388 U, S. 218 (1967), ante, at 239-240, also seems
inconsistent with the opinion of Mn. JusTicn STEWART in Kirby v.
Illinois, 406 U. S. 682 (1972). In any event, I do not understand
show one can relinquish a right without knowing of its existence, and
that is the only issue in this case.

SCHNECKLOTH v. BUSTAMONTE
218e

XutsHnm, J., dissenting

the Ninth Circuit said, "[u]nder many circumstances a
reasonable person might read an officer's 'May I' as the
courteous expression of a demand backed by force of
law." 448 F. 2d, at 701. Most cases, in my view, are
akin to Bumper v. North Carolina,391 1. S. 543 (1968):
consent is ordinarily given as acquiescence in an implicit
claim of authority to search. Permitting searches in such
circumstances, without any assurance at all that the subject of the search knew that, by his consent, he was relinquishing his constitutional rights, is something that I
cannot believe is sanctioned by the Constitution.
III
The proper resolution of this case turns, I believe, on
a realistic assessment of the nature of the interchange
between citizens and the police, and of the practical import of allocating the burden of proof in one way rather
than another. The Court seeks to escape such assessments by escalating its rhetoric to unwarranted heights,
but no matter how forceful the adjectives the Court uses,
it cannot avoid being judged by how well its image of
these interchanges accords with reality. Although the
Court says without real elaboration that it "cannot
agree,", ante, at 248, the holding today confines the protection of the Fourth Amendinent against searches conducted without probable cause to the sophisticated, the
knowledgeable, and, I might add, the few." In the final
analysis, the Court now sanctions a game of blindman's
buff, in which the police always have the upper hand
for the sake of nothing more than'the convenience of
13The Court's hl$f-hearted defense, that lack of knowledge is to
be "taken into account," rings rather hollow, in light of the apparent
import of the opinion that even"a subject who proves his lack of
knowledge may nonetheless have consented "voluntarily," under the
Court's peculiar definition of voluntariness.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
MasaL,

I., dissenting

412 U. S.

the police. But the guarantees of the Fourth Amendment were never intended to shrink before Such an
ephemeral and changeable interest. The Framers of the
Fourth Amendment struck the balance against this sort.
of convenience and in favor of certain basic civil rights.
It is not for this Court to restrike that balance because of
its own views of the needs of law enforcement officers.
I fear that that is the effect of the Court's decision' today.
It is regrettable that the obsession with validating
searches like that conducted in this case, so evident in
the Court's hyperboie, has obscured the Court's vision of
how the-Fourth Amendment was .designed to govern the
relationship between police aid citizen in our society.
I believe that experience and careful reflection show how
narrow and inaccurate that vision is, and I respectfully
dissent.

