UNITED STATES v., SCRAP
Syllabus

UNITED STATES FT AL.v. STUDENTS CHALLENGING REGULATORY. AGENCY PROCEDURES
(SCRAP) Lv AL.
"PEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

No. 72-535.

Argued February 28, 1973-Decided June 18, 1973*

The Interstate Commerce Act permits railroads to file proposed
freight rate increases, with at least 30 days' notice to the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) and the public before putting
the new rates into effect. The ICC may, pursuant to § 15 (7) of
the Act, suspend the operation of the proposed rates for as long
as seven months, in order to investigate the lawfulness of the
rates. At the end of the seven-month period, the carrier may put
the suspended rates into effect unless the ICC has completed its
investigation and found the rates unlawful. Proceeding under the
statutory scheme, substantially all the Nation's railroads sought
a 2.5% surcharge on nearly all freight rates, as an emergency
measure to obtain increased revenues pending adoption of selective
rate increases on a permanent basis. Shippers, competing carriers, and other interested persons requested the ICC to suspend
the tariff for the statutory seven-month period. Various environmental groups, including Students Challenging Regulatory Agency
Procedures (SCRAP) and the Environmental Defense Fund,
.appellees here, protested that failure to suspend the surcharge would cause their members "economic, recreational and
aesthetic harm," and specifically, that the new rate structure would
discourage" the use of "recyclable" materials and promote the use
of raw materiqls that compete with scrap, thus adversely affecting
the environmenat. On February 1, 1972, the ICC issued an order
announcing its decision not to suspend the surcharge for the sevenmonth period, and on April 24, 1972; ordered the proposed selective, increases fied by the carriers to be suspended for the full
seven-month period ending November 30, 1972, and permitted the
collection of the surcharge until that date. SCRAP filed the
*Together with No. 72-562, Aberdeen & Rocfcish Railroad Co.
et al. v. Students Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedures
(SCRAP) et al., also on appeal from the same court.

-070

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

412 U. S.

.present suit seeking, inter alia, an injunction to trJi enforcement of the February 1 and April 24 orders allowig the carriers
to collect the surcharge. SCRAP, an unincorporated association
formed by five law students to enhance the quality of-the environment, claimed that its members "suffered economic, recreational
and aesthetic harm directly as a result of the adverse environmental impact of the railroad treight structure," that each of its
members was caused to pay more for finished products, that each
of its members uses the forests, rivers, mountains, and other natural resources of the Washington, D. C., area and at his legal residence for camping, hiking, fishing, and other purposes, and that
these uses have been adversely affected by increased freight rates.
The main thrust of SCRAP's complaint was that the ICC's orders
were unlawful -for failure to include a detailed environmental impact statement as required by § 102 (2) (C) of the National Eivironmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), 42 U. S. C. § 4332 (2) (C).
The three-judge District Court found that appellees had standing to
sue. The court held that its power to grant an injunction was not
barred by Arrow TransportationCo. v. Southern R. Co., 372 U. S.
658, because NEPA "implicitly confers authority on the federal
courts to enjoin any federal action taken in violation of NEPA's
procedural requirements ..
so long as the review is confined to a
determination as to whetfier the procedural requisites'of NEPA
-have been followed.'" The court concluded that the ICC's decision
not "to suspend the surcharge for the seven-month period was a*
"major federal action significantly affecting the quality of the
human environment," and graned an injunction prohibiting the
ICC "from permitting" and the railroads "from collecting" the
surcharge "insofar as that surcharge relates to goods being transported for purposes of recycling." Held:
1. Appellees' pleadings sufficiently alleged that they were "adversely affected" or "aggrieved" within the meaning of § 10 of
the Administrative Procedure Act to withstand a motion to dismiss on the ground of lack. of standing to sue. Sierra Club v.
Mort6n, 405 U. S. 727,. distinguished. Pp. 683-690.
(a) Standing is not confined to those who show economic
harm, as "[alesthetic and .environmental well-being, like economic
well-being, are important ingredients of the quality of life ii our
society." Sierra Club, supra, at 734. P. 686.
,(b) Here, the appellees claimed that the specific and allegedly
illegal action of the ICC would directly harm them in their use
of the natural resources of the Washington area. Pp. 686-687.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Syllabus

(c) Standing is not to be denied because many people suffer
the same injury. Pp. 687-688.
(d) It cannot be said on these pleadings that appellees could
not prove their allegations, which, if proved, would place them
squarely amolig those persons injured in fact by the ICC's action
and entitled to review under Sierra Club; supra. Pp. 688-690.
2. The District Court; lacked jurisdiction to issue the injunction.
Pp. 690-698.
(a) Arrow Transportation, supra, held that Congress in
§ 15 (7) had vested exclusive jurisdiction in the ICC to suspend
rates pending its final decision on their lawfulness and had deliberately extinguished judicial power to grant such relief; and. the
factual distinctions between the instant case and Arrow Transportation are inconsequential. Pp. 690-692.
(b) The alleged noncompliance by the ICC with NEPA did
not give the District Court authority to grant the injunction, .as
NEPA was not intended to repeal by implication any other statute,
and the policies identified in Arrow Transportation as the basis
for § 15 (7) would be substantially undermined if the. courts were
found to have suspension pawers simply because of noncompliance
with NEPA. Pp. 692-698.
346 F. Supp. 189, reversed and remanded.
STmWART, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Bstirt&zN
and BnAcxmux, J., joined; in Parts I and II, of which DouorAs
and MARSHAs, .J., joined; and in Parts I and III of which Buman,
C. J., and WHrru and RHNQUIST, 33., joined. BLcnxuq, J.,
filed a concurring opinion, in whichBmNwAx, J., joined, post, p. 699.
DouGus, J., filed ai opinion dissenting in part, post, p. 699. WuRnT,
J., filed an opinion dissenting in part, in which BuRGER, C. J., and
RHxQIST, 3., joined, post, p. 722. M Amr , J., filed an opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part, post, p. 724. Powt.r, J.,
took no part in the consideration or decision of the cases.

Solicitor General Griswold argued the cause for the

United States et al. in No. 72-535.

With him on the

briefs were Asmstant Attorney General Frizzell, Edward,
R. Korman, Fritz.R. Kahn, Betty Jo Christian,and James
F. Tao. Hugh B. Cox argued the cause for appellants in
No. 72-562. With him on the tiefs were Charles A.
Horsky, Michael Boudin, and Edward A. Kaier.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

Peter H. Meyers argued the cause pro hac vice for
Students Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedutes, appellee in both cases. With him on the brief was John F.
Banzhaf III. John F. Dienelt argued the cause pro hac
vice for Environmental Defense Fund et al., appellees in
both cases. With him on the brief was Dennis M.
Flannery.t
MR. JUSTICE STEWART

Court.

delivered the opinion of the

Under the Interstate Commerce Act, the initiative for
rate increases remains with the railroads.- But in the
absence of special permission from the Interstate Commerce Commission, a railroad seeking an increase must
provide at least 30 days' notice to the Commission and.
the public before putting the new rate into effect. 49
-U. S. C. § 6 (3).' During that'30-day period, the ComtJerome J. McGrath filed a brief for Independent Natural Gas
Association of America as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Edw&d L:.Merrigan filed a,brief for' National Association of
Seqondary Material Industries, Inc., as amicus curiae urgi.g
affirmance.

ITitle 49 U.S. C. § 6 (3) provides: "No change shall be made in the
rates, fares, and charges or joint- rates, fares, and chaiges which
have been filed and published by any common barriier in compliance
with the requirements -of this section,' except after thirty days'
notice to. the Commission and to the public published as. aforesaid,
which shall plainly, state the changes proposed to be made in the,
schedule then in force and the time when the changed rates, fares,
or charges -will go into effect; and the proposed changes shall "be
shown by printing new schedules, or shall be plainly indicated upon
the schedules in force at the time and kept open to public inspection:
Provided, That the Commission may, in its discretion and for good
cause shown, allow changes upon less than the notice herein specified,
or modify the requirements of this section inrespect to publishing,
posting, and filing of tariffs, either in particular instances or by a
general order applicable to special or peculiar circumstances or
conditions: Pr6vided furter, That the Commission is authorized to

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

mission may suspend the operation of the proposed rate
for a maximum of seven months pending an investigation and decision on the lawfulness of the new rates.
49 U. S. C. j-15 (7).2 At the end of the seven-month
make suitable rules and regulations for the simplification of schedules of rates, fares, charges, and classifications and to permit in such
rules and regulations the filing 6f an" amendment of or change in
any rate, fare, charge, or classification without filing complete
schedules covering rates, fares, charges, or classifications not changed
if,( in its judgment, not inconsistent with the public interest."'
Title 49 U. S. C. § 15 (7) provides in pertinent part: "Whenever
there shall be filed ith the Commission any schedule. stating a
new .

.

. rate, fare, or charge, . . . the Commission, shall have...

authority, either upon complaint or upon its own initiative without complaint, at once, and if it so orders without answer or other
formal pleading by the interested carrier or carriers, but upon
reasonable notice, to enter upon a hearing concerning, the lawfulness of such rate, fare, [or] charge . . . ; and pending such

hearing and the decision thereon the Commission, upon filing with
such schedule and delivering to the carrier or. carriers affected
thereby a statement in writing of its reasons for such suspension,may from time to time suspend the operation of such schedule
and defer the use of such rate, fare, [or] charge .

. .

. but not

for a longer period than seven months beyond the time when it
would otherwise go into effect; and after full hearing, whether
completed before or after the rate, fare, [or] charge . . . goes
into effect, the -eommission may make such order with reference,
thereto as would be proper in a proceeding initiated after it had
become effective. If the proceeding-Jias not 'been concluded and
an order made within the period of suspension, the pioposed change
of rate, fare, [or] charge . . . shall go into effect at the end of

such period; but in case of a proposed increased rate or charge
-for, or in respect to the transportation of property, the Commission may by order require the interested carrier or carriers
to keep accurate account in detail of all amounts received by reason of such increase, specifying by whom and in whose behalf
such amounts are paid, 'and upon completion of the hearing 'and
decision may by further order require the interested carrier or
carriers to refund, witf 'interest, to the persons in whose behalf
such amounts were paid, such portion of -such increased rates or

. OCTOBER- TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

period, the carrier may put the suspended rate into effect
unless the Commission has earlier completed its investigation and found the rate unlawfu, 3
Proceeding under this regulatory scheme, on Decehber 13, 1971, substantiilly all ,of the railroads in -the
United States requested Commission authorization to file
on 5 days' notie a 2.5% surcharge on nearly all freight
rates. The railroads sought a January 1, 1972; effective
date for the new rates. The surcharge was proposed as
an interim emergency measure designed to produce some
$246 million annually in increased revenues 'pending
adoption of selective rate increases on a permanent basis.
As justification for the proposed surcharge, the iailroads alleged increasing costs and severely inadequate
revenues. In its last general revenue increase case, leis
than.two years earlier, the Commission had found:
"[T]he financial condition of the railroad industry. as a whole, and the financial status of many
individual carriers by rail, must be found to be at a
dangerously low level. The precipitous decline in
working capital and serious loss of liquidity has reduced many carriers to a truly marginal operation.
This has been most clearly demonstrated: by the
recent bankruptcy application of the Penn Central. We think it undeniable that a nububer of
charges as by its decision shall be found not justifed. At any
-hearing involving a change in a rate, fare, [or] charge ... after
September 18, 1940, the burden of proof shall be upon the carrier
to show that the proposed changed rate, fare, [or] 'charge ...
is just and reasonable, and the Commission shall give to the hearing
and decision of such questions preference over all other questions
pending before it and decide the same as speedily as possible."
8
Other statutory provisions giving suspension powers to the
Commission include 49 U. S. C. §§ 316 (g), 318 (c) (Motor Carrier
Act); 49 U. S. C. §§ 907 (g), (i) (Water Carrier Act); 49 U. S. C.
§ 1006 (e) (Freight Forwarders Act).

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

675

Opinion of the Court

other roads are approaching a similar financial crisis."

lx parte Nos. 26/267, Increased Freight Rates,
1970 and 1971, 339 I. C. C. 125, 173.
The railroads alleged that, since the close of that proceeding, their costs had increased by over $1 billion on
an annual lasis, including $305 million in increased wages,
while economic indicators such as decreased working
capital and increased debt obligations pointed toward an
ever-worsening financial condition.4
In an order dated December 21, 1971, the Commission
acknowledged the need, particularly of some carriers, for.increased revenues, but it concluded that five days' notice
and a January 1, 1972, effective date "would preclude
the public from effective participation." E parte No.
281, Increased Freight Rates and Charges, 1972, 349
I. C. C. 358, 361. The Commission authorized the rail-roads to refile the 2.5% surcharge with not less than 30"
days' notice, and an effective date no. earlier than :February. 5, 1972.
. On January 5, 1972, the railroads refiled the surcharge,
to become effective on February 5, 1972. Shippers, corn"peting'carriers, and other interested persons requested the
Commission to suspend the tariff for the statutory sevenmonth period. Various environmental groups, 'includihg Students Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedures
(SCRAP) and the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF),.
two of the appellees here, protested that failure to suspend the surcharge would causetheir members "economic,

-

'Figures reported to the Commission indicated that the net working capital of the Class I railroads for the 12 months ending Septembei 30,. 1971, was only $75.4 million, approximately $33.7 million
less than the year-end'1970 figure. Long-term debt maturing within
one year from September 30, 1971, was $43.6 million higher than on
December 31, 1970. Equipment obligations at the end of 1970
were $4,448 million, or almost twice the total in 1960.

-

. O.CTOBERP TERM, 1972
Opinion of thi Court

412 U. S.

recreational and aesthetic harm." Specifically, they
claimed that the rate structure would discourage the use
of "recyclable" materials, and-promote the use of new
raw materials that compete with scrap, thereby idversely
affecting the environment by. encouraging unwarranted
mining, lumbering, and other extractive activities. The
members 6f these environmental groups were allegedly
forced to pay more for fliished pr6ducts, and their use of
forests and streams was allegedly impaired because of
unnecessary destruction of timber and extraction of raw
materials, and the accumulation of otherwise" recyclable
solid and liquid waste materials. The railroads replied
that since this was a general rate increhse, recyclable materials would nol be made any less compeiitive relative
to other commodities, and that in the past general rate
increases had not discouraged the movemenf of scrap
materials.
I
The Commission issued an order on February 1, 19"72,
shortly before the surcharge would have automatically'
become effective. It recognized that "the railroads have
a critical need for additional revenue from their interstate
freight rates and charges to offset, in part, recently incurred increased operating costs," and announced its decision not to suspend the 2.5% surcharge for the sevenmonth statutory period.5 In anticipation of the proposed permanent selective increases to"be filed by the
railroads and to avoid further complication of the tariff
rates, the Commission specified that its refusal to suspend was conditioned upon the carriers' setting .an expiration date for the surcharge of no later than June 5;
1972.1 The Commission ordered the investigation into
The order of the ICC is unreported.
OThe Commission also imposed as a condition on its refusal to
suspend the exclusion of increased rates "on freight in trailer bodies,
semi-trailers, vehicles or containers on flat cars on export and

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

the railroads' rates which had been instituted by its December 21 order to be held in abeyance until the carriers
requested permission to file the indicated permanent rate
increases on a selective basis. With respect to the appellees' environmental arguments, the Commission found
that "the involved general increase will have no. significant adverse effect on the movement of traffic by
railway or on the quality of the human environment
within the, meaning of the [National) Environmental
Policy Act .of 1969!'
The proposed permanent selective increases, averaging
4.1%, were subsequently filed with the Commission, and
various parties again requested that these proposed rates
Also be suspended. By order served March 6, 1972, the
Commission did not grant the railroads'.request to have
the selective increases go into effect on April 1, 1972, as
they had sought but it allowed the carriers to republish
their rates to become effective on May 1, 1972, upon
not less than 45 days' notice to the public. The carriers
did republish the rates, and on April 24, 1972, the Commission entered an order suspending the proposed selective increase for the full seven-month period allowed by
statute, or to and including November 30, 1972. The
investigation into the increased rates was continued.
Since the selective increases were to supplant the temporary surcharge, and since'they had been suspended, the
Commission modified its-February 1 order and authorized
ihe railroads to eliminate the June 5 expiration date for
imporf traffic." Since such increases had been proposed only by
,the western and southern qarriers and not by the eastern carriers,
such increases would, in the, Commission's view, have disrupted
existing port relationships.
Finally, the Commission conditioned its action on the provision
that the proposed surcharge would n6t apply to shipments originat"
ing prior to February 5, 1972, and moving xinder transit arrangements.
7The March 6 and April 24 orders of the ICC are unreported. ,

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion* of the Court

412 U.S.

the surcharge and to continue collecting the surcharge
until November -30, 1972.

I

On Ma 12, 1972, SCRAP filed the present suit agaifnst
the United States and. the Commission in the District
Court for the District of Columbia seeking, along with
other relief, a treliminary injunction to restrain enforcement of the Commission's February 1 andApril 24 orders
allowing the railroads to collect the 2.5% surcharge.
SCRAP stated in its amended, complaint that it was
"an unincorporated association formed by five law stu"dents ... in September,, 1971. Its primary purpose is,
to enhance the quality of the'human environment for its
members, and for all citizens-.."
To establish standing to bring this suit, SCRAP repeated many of the allegations it had made before the Commission in E parte
281. It claimed that each of-its members "suffered economic, recreational and aesthietic harm directly as a result
of the aaverse environmental impact of the railroad
freight structure, as modified by the-Commission's actions.
to date in Ex ,Parte281." Specifically, SCRAP alleged
that each of its members was caused to pay more for
finished products, that each of its members "[u]ses the
forests, rivers, streams, mountains, and other natural resources surrounding the Washington Metropolitan area
and at his legal residence, for camping, hiking, fishing,
sightseeing, and other recreational. [and] aesthetic purposes," and that these uses have been adversely affected
by the increased freight rates, that each of its members
breathes the air within the Washington metropolitan,
area and the area of his legal residence and that this air
has suffered increased pollution caused by the modified
rate structure, and that each memberhas been forced to
pay increased taxes because of the sums which must be
expended to dispose of otherwise reusable waste materials.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

-The main thrust of SCRAP's complaint was that the
Commission's decisions of February 1 and April 24, insofar
as they declined to suspend the 2.5% surcharge, were unlawful because the Commission had failed to include a
'detailed environmental impact statement as required by
§ 102 (2) (C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of

1969 (NEPA), 42 U. S. C. § 4332 (2) (C).

NEPA requires

such a statement in "every recommendation or report on
proposals for legislation and other major Federal actions
significantly affecting the quality of the human environ."
Ib"d. 8 SCRAP contended that because
ment
8

Section 102, 42 U. S. C. § 4332, provides in pertinent part:
"The Congress authorizes and directs that, to the fullest extent
possible: (1) the policies, regulations, and public laws of the United
States shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with
the policies set forth in this chapter, and (2) all agencies of the
Federal Government shall"(C) include in every recommendation or report on proposals for
legislatioil and other major Federal actions significantly affecting
the quality of the human environment, a detailed statement by the
responsible official on"(i)the environmental impact of the proposed action,
"(ii)
any adverse environmental effects which cannot be avoided
should the proposal be implemented,
"(iii) alternatives tofte proposed action,
"(iv) the relationship between local short-term uses of man's
environment and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term
productivity, and
"(v) any irrieversible and irretrievable commitments of resources
which would be involved in the proposed action should it 'be
implemented.
"Prior to making any detailed statement, the responsible Federal
official shall consult with and obtain the comments of any Federal
agency which has jurisdiction by law or special expertise with respect
to any environmental impact involved, Copies of such statement
and the cdmments'and views of the appropriate Federal, State, and
local agencies, which are authorized to develop and enforce environmental standards, shall be made available to the President,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

of its alleged adverse impact upon recycling, the Commission's action with respect to the surcharge constituted
a major federal action significantly affecting the
'environment.
Three additional environmental groups, also appellees
here, were allowed to intervene as plaintiffs, and a group
of ra Iroads, appellants here, intervened as defendants to
support the 2.5% surcharge.' After a single district
the Council on Envirenmental Quality and to the public . . and
shall accompany the proposal through the existing agency review
processes."
9The Environmental Defense Fund, National Parks and Conservation Association, and Izaak Walton League of America intervened as plaintiffs. The, allegations as to standing made by
each of these "groups were similar to those made by SCRAP.
EDF, for example, alleged as follows:
"EDF has a nationwide membership of over 32,000 persons composed of scientists, educators, lawyers and other citizens dedicated
to the protection of our environment and the wise use of our
natural resources. Each'of EDF's members has a personal interest
in the maintenance of a safe, healthful, productive environment as
free from waste substances as is possible. EDF's members have
contributed financially to EDF in part so that they may obtain
adequate representation of their legally protected environmental
interest, which representation they could not otherwise individually
afford. Each of EDF's members has under § 101 (e) of NEPA,
'aresponsibility to contribute to the preservation and enhancement
of the environment,' which responsibility they fulfill in part by
becoming a member of and contributing to EDF.
"The increased freight rates and charges in e Parte 281 and
the coitinuance of' the underlying rate structure, which discriminate
against movement of secondary (recyclable), materials, will cause
EDF members individualized injury and adversely affect them in
one or more of their activities and pastimes. Specifically, each
EDF member: (i) -has been or will be caused to pay more for
products in the market place, made more expensive by' both t
non-use of recycled materials in their manufacture, and the need
to use comparatively more energy in processing primary raw materials as opposed tc secondary (recyclable) materials; (ii) uses the

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

judge had denied the. defendants' motion to dismiss and
SCRAP's motion for a temporary restraining order,. a
statutory three-judge district court was convened pur-suant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 2284, 2325, to decide the motion
for a preliminary injunction and the cross-motion to dismiss the complaint.
On July 10, 1972, the District Court filed an opinion,
346 F. Supp. 189, and entered an injunction prohibiting
the Commission "from permitting," and the railroads
"from collecting" the 2.5% surcharge "insofar as that
surcharge relates to goods being transported for purposes
of recycling, pending further order of this court." 0'
The court first rejected the contention that the appellees were without standing to sue because they allegedly
had no more than "a general interest in seeing that the
law is enforced," id., at 195, and distinguished our recent
decision in Sierra Club v. Morton, 405 U. S. 727, on the
nation's forests, rivers, streams, mountains, and other natural resources for camping, hiking, fishing, sightseeing, and other recreational and aesthetic purposes. These uses have been and will
continue to be adversely affected to the extent that the freight
rate structure, as modified thus far in Ex Parte 281, encourages
destruction of virgin timber, the unnecessary extraction of nonrenewable resources, and the discharge and accumulation of otherwise recyclable materials."
"The court dismissed as moot that part of the complaint relating to the Commission's February 1 order because that order
had expired by its own terms on June 5. Since the environmental
groups have not appealed from the judgment below, we have before
us for review only the District Court's action with regard to the
Commission's April 24 order that allowed the surcharge to continue
until November 30, 1972.
The court also concluded that since the Commission had taken
no final action with respect to the 4.1% selective increase, the
lawfulness of that tariff was not ripe for review. The court did,
however, retain jurisdiction over the case to review the final order
of the Commission.

682

OCTOBER T]RIM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

,basis that; unlike -the petitioner in Sierra Club, the environmental groups here had alleged that their members
used. the forests, streams, mountains and other resources
in the Washington area and that this use was disturbed
by the environmental impact caused by honuse of recyclable goods.
Second, the court found, that its power to grant an
.injunction was not barred by our decision in Arrow
Transportation Co. v. Southern R. Co., 372 U. S. 658,
667, where we helf that in enacting 49 U. S. C. § 15 (7),
Congress had intentionally vested "in the Commission the sole and 'exclusive power to suspend" and withdrew "from the judiciary any pre-existing power to
grant injunctive relief." The court reasoned that NEPA
."'implicitly confers .authority on the federal courts to
erijcin any federal action taker'in violation of NEPA's
,procedural requirements" "so long as, the review is
.onfined to a determination as tp whether the procedural
requisites of, NEtPA have been followed." 346 F. Supp.,
at 197 and n. 1-1.
Flnally, turning to the merits, the. court concluded
that the Commissibn's 'April 24' decisiori not to s.uspend
he surcharge for the statutoryseven-month period was a
"'major Federal actioii significantly affecting the qual.Id., at 199. On the
ity of the human environment.'
premise that, an environmental impact statement is required "whenever the siction arguably will have an adverse environmental impact," id., at 201, the court held,
that "the danger of an adverse impact is sufficiently real
to require a statement in this case"' Ibid.
The District Court declined to stay iis injunctive order
pending dppeal to this Court, and on July 19, 1972,'THE
CmEE-JVSTIcE,'as Circuit -Justice for the District of Columbia Circuit, denied applications to stay the prelimihary
injunction. 409 U. S. 1207. On December .18, 1972, we
nQted- probable jurisdiction of the appeals fied by the

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of. the Court

United States, the Commission, and -the railroads. 409
U. S. 1073.1
II
The appellants challenge the appellees' standing to sue,
arguing that the allegations in the pleadings as.to stand11

While subsequent events do not bear directly on the validity

of the District Court's actJon in granting the preliminary injunction,
they do highlight the problems that hover in the background of this
litigation.
On October 4, 1972, the Commission served its report and order
in Ex parte 281 approving, with some exceptions, the general increases
filed by the railroads. Increased Freight Rates and Charges, i972,
341 I. C. C. 290. In'that -report, although the Commission gave
extensive consideration to environmental aspects of the rate in-

creases, it declined to include a formal environmental impact statement because it 'concluded that its actions "will neither actually
nor potentially significantly affect the quality of the human environment ....

"

Id., at 314.

The selective increases were to become effective on October 23,
1972, but the Commission delayed until November 12 the effective
date for rate increases on recyclable commodities in order to allow
the submission of comments by interested parties. Upon the submission of critical comments, the Commission, in an unsreported
order. served on November 8, reopened the rate proceeding in"
Ex parte 281 for further evaluation of the rates on recyclable commodities, and ordered the proposed selective tariff increases on
those commodities suspended for the full seven-month period authorized by statute-until June 10, 1973. Accordingly, with respect to
recyclable commodities on which the proposed selective increase had
bee,. suspended, the Commission extended the expiraticn date of the
2.5% surcharge until June 10, 1973, the expiration date for the
suspension of the selective increases. But the Commission acknowledged that the power to collect the surcharge on these recyclable
commodities was barred by the preliminary injunction issued by
the District Court in the present case and which is the subject of
the present appeals. In short, the temporary 2.5% surcharge would
have been in effect throughout this period on recyclable commodities
but for the District Court's resilient preliminary injunction. Whether
the Commission deliberately continued the surcharge beyond the time
it would have been supplanted by the selective increases in order to

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

ing were vague, unsubstantiated, and insufficient under
our recent aecision in SierraClub v. Morton, supra. The
appellees respond that unlike the petitioner in Sierra
give the surcharge and the District Court's injunction continuing
effect and thus avoid mooting this litigation, and whether the Commission acted beyond its powers under 49 U. S. C.§ 15 (7) by suspending
the selective increases for a second seven-month period and by treating the District Court's injunction as having continuing effect, are
questions not raised here. No party now maintains that these cases
are. moot. Cf. Southern Pdcific Terminal Co. v. ICC, 219 U. S.498,
515.
Both sets of appellees filed motions in the District Court:
SCRAP sought a preliminary injunction against the Commission's
October 4 order, and EDF and the other intervening plaintiffs
sought leave to file an amended and supplemental complaint and
requested other relief. On January 9, 1973, the court deferred
consideration of the EDF motions and denied SCRAP's request
for a preliminary injunction. The court found that as a result
of the Commission's November 8 order, neither the selective rate
increases nor the temporary surcharge could be assessed on recyclable
commodities. Consequently, the court found, no injunctive relief
was justified as to those materials. While the permanent rate increase approved by the Commission in Ex parte 281 was then being
collected on shipments of all other commodities, and although the
Commission had concededly failed to file an impact statement, the
court concluded that "the danger of an adverse impact appears
to be sufficiently speculative . . . that it would be unsound to
grant preliminary relief." The court continued: "The record indicates that many railroads are in dire financial straits--some on
the verge of bankruptcy-and badly need the revenues now being
obtained under the Commission's rate increase. The increase amounts
to some $340 million per year, and were this revenue flow halted
it could not easily be recouped should it later appear that no NEPA
statement was necessary." The merits of neither the Commission's
October 4 order nor the District Court's January 9 decision are
before us, and we therefore express no opinion on them.
On May 7, 1973, the Commission served its final environmental
impact statement relating to the selective rate increises on recyclable
commodities. It concluded that the proposed increases would have
no significant adverse effect on the environment. Contending that
the impact statement was inadequate, EDF and SCRAP sought to

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP

669

Opinion of the Court

Club, their pleadings sufficiently alleged that they were
"adversely affected!' or "aggrieved" within the meaning
of § 10 of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5
U. S. C. § 702,11 and they point specifically to the allegations that their members used the forests, streams, mountains, and other resources in the Washington metropolitan
area for camping, hiking, fishing, and sightseeing, and
that this use was disturbed by the adverse environmental
impact caused by the nonuse of recyclable goods brought
about by a rate increase on those commodities. The District Court found these allegations sufficient to withstand
a motion to dismiss. - We agree.
The petitioner in ,Serra Club, "a large and longestablished organization, with a historic commitment to
the cause of protecting our Nation's natural heritage from
man's depredations," 405 U. S., at 739, sought a declaratory judgment and an injunction to restrain federal officials from approving the creation of an extensive skiresort development in the scenic Mineral King Valley of
the Sequoia National Forest. The Sierra- Club claimed
standing to maintain its "public interest" lawsuit because it had "'a special interest in the conservation and
the sound maintenan e of the national'parks game refuges and forests of the country.....'
Id., at 730. Weheld those allegations insufficient.
enjoin collection of the selective rate increases. On June 7, 1973,
the District Court temporarily enjoined the railroads from collecting
the selective increases on recyclable commodities. On June 8,1973,
THE CHEF JUSTiCE, as Circuit Justice for the'District of Columbia
Circuit, stayed the District Court's injunction pending further order
of this Court.
1
2Like the petitioner in Sierra Club, -the appellees here base their
standing to sue upon the APA, 5 TT S: C. § 702, which provides:
"A person suffering legal wrong because of agency action, or ad.
.versely affected or aggrieved by agency action within the meaning
of a relevant statute, is entitled to judicial review thereof."

686 _.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

Relying upon our prior decision§ in Data Processing
Service v. Camp, 397 U. S. 150, and Barlow v. Collins,
397 U. S. 159, we held that § 10 of the APA conferred
standing to obtain jidicial review of agency action only
upon those who could show "that the challenged action
had caused them 'injury in fact,' and where the alleged
injury was to an interest 'arguably within the zone of
interests to be protected or regulated' by the statutes
that the agencies were claimed to have violated." 405
U. S., at 733.3
In interpreting "injury in fact" we 'made it clear
that standing was not confined to those who could show
"economic harm," although both Data Processing and
Barlow had involved that kind of injury. Nor, we said,
could the fact that many persons shared the same injury
be sufficient reason to disqualify from seeking review of
an agency's action any person who had in fact suffered
injury. Rather, we explained: "Aesthetic and environmental well-being, like economic well-being, are important ingredients of the quality of life in our society, and
the fact that particular environmental interests are shared
by the many rather than the, few does not make them
less deserving of legal protection through the judicial
process." Id., at- 734. Consequently, neither the fact
that the appellees here claimed only a harm to their use
and enjoyment of the natural resources of the Washington area, nor the fact that all those who use those
1 'As in Sierra Club, it is unnecessary to reach any question concerning the scope of the "zone of interests" test or its application
to this case. It is undisputed that the "environmental interest"
that the appellees seek to protect is vithin the interests to be protected by NEPA, and it is unnecessary to consider the 'arious
allegations of economic harm on which the appellees also relied in
their pleadings and which the Government contends are outside
the intended purposes of NEPA.

UNITED STATEAS v. SCRAP
'669

Opinion of the Court

~f
resources suffered the same harm, deprives them
standing.
In Sierra Club, though, we- went on to stress the importance of demonstrating that the party seeiing revie*
be himself among the injured, for it is this tequirement
that gives.a litigant a direct stake in the controversy and
prevents the judicial process from becoming no more th.n
a vehicle for the vindication of the value interests of concerned bystanders. No such specific injury was alleged
in Sierra Club. In that case the asserted harm "will be
felt directly only by those who use Mineral King and
Sequoia National Park, and for whom the aesthetic and
recreational values of the area will be lessened by the
highway and ski resort," id., at 735, yet "[t]he Sierra
Club failed to allege that it or its mnmbers would be
affected in any of their activities or pastimes by the "...
development." Ibid. Here, by contrast, the appellees
claimed that the specific and allegedly illegal action of
the Commission would directly harm them in their use of
the natural resources of the Washington Metropolitan
Area.

Unlike the specific and geographically limited federal
action of which the petitioner complained in Sierra Club,
the challenged agency action in this case is applicable to
substantially all of the Nation's railroads, and thus allegedly has an adverse environmental impact on all the
natural resources of the country. Rather than a limited
group of persons who' used a picturesque valley in California, all persons who utilize the scenic resources of the
country, and indeed all who breathe its air, could claim'
harm similar to that alleged by the environmental groups
here. But we have already made it clear that standing is
not to be. denied simply because many people suffer the
same injury. Indeed some of the cases on which we relied
in Sierra Club demonstrated the patent fact that persons

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

across the Nation could be adversely affected by major
governmental actions. See, e. g, Environmental Defense
Fund v. Hardin, 428 F. 2d 1093, 1097 (interests of consumers affected by decision of Secretary of Agriculture
refusing to suspend registration of certain pesticides containing DDT); Reade v. Ewing, 205 F. 2d 630, 631-632
(interests of consumers of oleomargarine in fair labeling
of product regulated by Federal Security Administration).
To deny standing to persons who are in fact injured
simply because many others are also injured, would mean
that the most injurious and widespread Government
actions could be questioned by nobody. We cannot accept that conclusion.
But the injury alleged here is also very different from
that at issue in SierraClub because here the alleged injury
to the environment is far less direct and perceptible. The
petitioner there complained about the construction of a
specific project that would directly affect the Mineral
King Valley. Here, the Court was asked to follow a far
more attenuated line of causation to the eventual injury
of which the appellees complained-a general rate increase would allegedly cause increased use of nonre.cyclable commodities as compared to recyclable goods,
thus resulting in the need to use more natural resources
to produce such goods, some of which resources might be
taken from the Washington area, and resulting in more
refuse that might be discarded in national parks in the
Washington area. The railroads protest that the appellees could never prove that a general increase in rates
would have this effect, and they contend that these allegations were a ploy to avoid the need to show some injury
in fact.
Of course, pleadings must be something more than
an ingenious academic exercise in the conceivable. A
plaintiff must allege that he has been or will in fact
be perceptibly harmed by the challenged agency action,

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

not that he can imagine circumstances in which he could
be affected by the agency's action. And it is equally
clear that the allegations must be true and capable of
proof at trial. But we deal here simply with the plead-

ings in which the appellees alleged a specific and perceptible harm that distinguished them from other citizens

who had not used the natural resources that were claimed
to be affected. 4 If, as the railroads now assert, these
allegations were in fact untrue, then the appellants
should have moved for summary judgment on the stand-

ing issue and deiionstrated to the District Court that the
allegations were sham and raised no genuine issue of

fact. 5

We -cannot say on these pleadings that the ap-

24 The Government urges us to limit standing to those who have
been "significantly" affected by agency action. But, even if we
could begin to define what such a test would mean, we think it
fundamentally misconceived. "Injury in fact" reflects the statutory
requirement that a person be "adversely affected" or "aggrieved,"
and it serves to distinguish a person with a direct stake in the
outcome of a litigation--even though small-from a person with a
mere interest in the problem. We have allowed important interests
to be vindicated by plaintiffs with no more at stake in the outcome
of an action than a fraction of a vote, see Baker v. Cart, 369 U. S.
186; a $5"fine and costs, see -McGowan v. Maryland, 366
U. S.420; and a $1.50 poll tax, Harperv. Virginia Bd. of Elections,
383 U. S. 663. While these cases were not dealing specifically
with § 10 of the APA, we see no reason to adopt a more restrictive
interpretation of "adversely affected" or "aggrieved." As Professor
Davis has put it: "The basic idea that comes out in numerous cases
is that an identifiable trifle is enough for standing to fight out a
question of principle; the trifle is the basis for standing and the
principle supplies the motivation." Davis, Standing: Taxpayers
and Others, 35 U. Chi. L. Rev. 601, 613. See also K. Davis, Administrative Law Treatise §§ 22.09-5, 22.09-6 (Supp. 1970).
'1rThe
railroads object to the fact that the allegations were not
more precise-that no specific "forest" was named, that there was no
assertion of the existence of any lumbering camp or other.extractive
facility in the area. They claim that they had no way to answer
such allegations which were wholly barren of specifics. But, if that

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

pellees could not prove their allegations which, if proved,
would place them squarely among those persons injured
in fact by the Commission's action, and entitled under
the clear import of Sierra Club to seek review. The
District Court was correct in denying the appellants'
motion to dismiss the complaint for failure to allege sufficient standing to bring this lawsuit.
III
We need not reach the issue whether, under conventional standards of equity, the District Court was justified in issuing a preliminary injunction, because we
have concluded that the court lacked jurisdiction to enter
an injunction in any event.
The District Court enjoined the Commission from
"permitting," and the railroads from "collecting," the
2.5% interim surcharge on recyclable commodities.
Finding that NEPA implicitly conferred authority "on
the federal courts to enjoin any federal action taken in
violation of NEPA's procedural requirements," 346
F. Supp., at 197, it concluded'that our decision in Arrow
TransportationCo. v. Southern R. Co., 372 U. S. 658, did
not affect judicial power to issue an injunction in the rcumstances of this case. We cannot agree.
In Arrow, the Commission had suspended a railroad's
proposed rates for the statutory seven-month period, and
the railroad had voluntarily deferred the proposed rate
were really a problem, the railroads 'could have moved' foi a more
definite statement, see Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12 (e), and certainly normal civil discovery devices wereavailable to the railroads.
Similarly, the District Court cannot be faulted for failing to take
evidence on the issue of standing. This case came before the court
on motions to dismiss and for a preliminary injunction. If the
railroads thought that it was necessary to take evidence, or if they
believed summary judgment was appropriate, they could have moved
for such relief.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

for an additional five months. When the Commission had
not reached a final decision within that period, the railroad
announced its intent to adopt the new rates. In a suit
brought to enjoin the railroad from effectuating that
change, we held that the courts were without power to
issue such an injunction. From the language and history
of § 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act, we concluded
that Congress had vested exclusive power in the Commission to suspend rates pending its final decision on
their lawfulness, and had deliberately extinguished judicial power to grant such relief. The factual distinctions
between the present cases and Arrow are inconsequential.
It is true that the injunction in Arrow was sought
after the statutory seven-month period had expired and
thus represented an attempt to extend judicially the
suspension period, while here the injunction was issued
during the suspension period. But Arrow was grounded
on the lack of power in the courts to grant any injunction before the Commission had finally determined the
'awfulness of the- rates, and that holding did not depend on the fact that the availability of the Commission's power of suspension had passed. Indeed, the
federal court decisions cited and approved in Arrow
involved instances where the courts had been asked to
enjoin rates during the statutory seven-month period.
See, e. g., M. C. Kiser Co. v. Central of Georgia 1?. Co.,
236 F. 573, aff'd, 239 F. 718; Freeport Sulphur Co. v.
United Stdtes, 199 F. Supp. 913; Bison S. S. Corp. v.
United States, 182 F. Supp. 63; Luckenbach S. S. Co.
v. United States, 179 F. Supp. 605, 609-610, vacated in
part as moot, 361 U. S. 280; Carlsen v. United States,
107 F. Supp. 398.
"Similarly, there is no significance in the fact that,
unlike Arrow, the injunction in this litigation ran against
the Commission as well as the railroads. The only

OCTOBER TERT4, 1972
'Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

way in which the Commission could comply with the
court's order would be to exercise its power of suspension and suspend the surcharge. The injunction
constitutes a direct interference with the Commission's
discretionary decision whether or not to suspend the
rates. It would turn Arrow into a sheer formality and
effectively amend § 15 (7) if a federal court could accom-

plish by injunction against the Commission what it could
not accomplish by injunction directly against the rail-

roads. And, again, the federal court decisions on- which
Arrow relied were for the most part cases in which the
courts had held that they were without power to compel
the Commission to grant a rate suspension. See, e. g.,
Bison S. S. Corp. v. United States, supra; Luckenbach
S. S. Co. v. United States, supra;Carlsenv. UnitedStates,
supra; cf. FreeportSulphur Co. v. United States, supra.8
Thus, the only arguably significant distinction between
the present litigation and Arrow is that here the Commission allegedly failed to comply with NEPA. However, we
cannot agree with the District Court that NEPA has
amended § 15 (7) sub silentio and created an implicit
exception to Arrow so that judicial power to grant in'8 EDF suggests that the April 24 order of the Commission was
in fact a final order finding the surcharge "just and reasonable,"
not simply a refusal to suspend the surcharge. But the Commission's reference to the "just and reasonable" nature of the surcharge
was a preliminary assessment commonly made in suspension orders.
See, e. g., the suspension orders quoted in Naph-Sol Refizing Co.
v. United States, 269 F. Supp. 530, 531; Oscar Mayer & Co. v.
United States, 268 F. Supp. 977, 978-979. It did not represent a
final determination by the Commission that any particular rate was
just and reasonable. Indeed the Commission made it clear in its
February 1 order that the surcharge was not considered a prescribed
rate within the meaning of Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison,
T. & S. F. R. Co., 284 U. S. 370, and was subject to complaint
and investigation under the Act.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

junctive relief in this case has been. revived." NEPA,
one of the recent minajor federal efforts at reversing the
deterioration of the country's environment, declares
"that it is the continuing policy of the Federal Government... to use all practicable means and measures...
in a manner calculated to foster and promote the general
welfare, to create and maintain conditions under which
man and nature can exiA in productive harmony, and
fulfill the social, economic, and other requirements of.
present and future generations of -Americans."
42
U. S. C. § 4331. To implement these lofty purposes,
Congress imposed a number of responsibilities upon federal agencies, most notably the requirement of producing a detailed environmental impact statement for "major
Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the

human environment." 42 U. S. C. § 4332 (2) (C).'s But
17 An alternative ground for avoiding the Arrow decision, which
was suggested but not relied on by the District Court, was that
the surcharge here was an "agency-made" rate, not a "earriermade" rate. Moss v. CAB, 430 F. 2d 891, which was cited by the
court is, however, plainly inapposite. There the CAB suspended the
rates proposed by the carriers, but suggested in their place "a complete and innovative scheme for setting all passenger rates for the
continental United States." Id., at 899. It was clear that when the
carriers filed the rates suggested by the Board they would not be
suspended. "Even a cursory reading of the order makes it clear
that the Board told the carriers what rates to file; it set forth a
step-by-step formula requiring major changes in rate-making practices and in rates which it expected the carriers to adopt." Id.,
at 899-900. Here, by contrast, the level and structure of the rates
were proposed entirely by the carriers. While the Commission
suggested an expiration date for the surcharge, this was simply
to make the surcharge expire when the general selective increases
went into effect. This expiration date and the other standard conditions attached to the Commission's refusal to suspend the surcharge did not, in any meaningful sense, transform the carriermade
rate into a Commission-made rate.
28 See n. 8, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

nowhere, either in the legislative history or the statutory
language, is there any indication that Congress intended
to restore to the federal courts the power temporarily to
suspend railroad rates, a power that had been clearly
taken away by § 15 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The statutory language, in fact, indicates that NEPA
was not intended to repeal by implication any other
statute. Thus, 42 U. S. C. § 4335 specifies that "[tihe
policies and goals set forth in [NEPAl are supplementary
to those set forth in existing authorizations of Federal
agencies," and 42 U. S. C. § 4334 instructs that the Act
"shall [not] in any way affect the specific statutory obligations of any Federal agency . ..." Rather than
providing for any wholesale overruling of prior law,
NEPA requires all federal agencies to review their "present statutory authority, administrative regulations, and
current policies and procedures for the purpose of determining whether there are any deficiencies or inconsistencies therein which prohibit full compliance with
the purposes and provisions of [NEPA] and shall propose to the President . . . such measures as may be
necessary to bring their authority and policies into conformity with the intent, purposes, and procedures set
forth in [NEPA]." 42 U. S. C. § 4333. It would be
anomalous if Congress had provided at one and the same
time that federal agencies, which have the primary responsibility for the implementation of NEPA,1 must
comply with present law and ask for any necessary new
legislation, but that the courts may simply ignore what
'9 See Greene County, Planning Board v. FPC, 455 F. 2d 412,
420; Calvert Cliffs' CoordinatingComm. v. Atomic Energy Comm'n,
146 U.S.App. D. C. 33, 43, 449 F. 2d 1109, 1i19; City of New York
v. United States, 337 F. Supp. 150, 160; Cohen v. Price Comm'n; 337
F. Supp. 1236, 1241.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669-

Opinion of the Court

we described in Arrow as "a clear congressional purpose

22.20
to oust judicial power ... ." 372 U. S., at 671 n.
The District Court pointed to nothing either in the
language or history of NEPA that suggests a restoration of previously eliminated judicial power. While it
relied primarily on the decisions of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Calvert
Cliffs' Coordinating Comm. v. Atomic Energy Comm'n,
146 U. S. App. D. C. 33, 449 F. 2d 1109, and Committee for Nuclear Responsibility, Inc. v. Seaborg,
149 U. S. App. D. C. 380, 463 F. 2d 783, neither
case supports an 'injunction under'the circumstances of
this case. Calvert Cliffs' held that a federal court had,
power to review rules promulgated by the Atomic Energy
Commission, and there the court ordered further consideration of the rules on the ground that there had not
been compliance with NEPA. In Committee for Nuclear Responsibility it was held that federal courts had
jurisdiction to consider whether an executive decision to
conduct a nuclear'test had satisfied the procedural re20 The argument that NEPA implicitly restored to the courts the
injunctive power that § 15 (7) had divested is similar to a contention rejected in Arrow itself. There the petitioner- claimed that
congressional adoption of the National Transportation Policy, 54
Stat. 899, had implicitly altered § 15 (7). They claimed that the
proposed new railroad rates would drive the barge lines out of
existence, contrary, to the congressional declaration of concern for
the protection of water carriers threatened by rail competition.
The Court concluded that "nothing in the National Transportation
Policy, enacted many years after . . . § 15 (7), -ndicates that
Congress intended to revive a judicial power which . . . was
extinguished when the suspension power was vested in the Commission." Arrow Transportation Co. v. Southern R. go., 372 U. S.
658, 673. In addition, the Court noted that, as is also true with
NEPA, the mandate was directed not to the courts but -to the
Commission. There is nothing about NEPA that makes it any more
amenable for finding an implicit amendment of § 15 (7), than the
National Transportation Policy was.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

quirements of NEPA. The question herb, however, is
not whether there is general judicial power to determine
if an agency has complied with N2PA, and to grant
equitable relief if it has not; cf. Arrow Transportation
Co. v. Southern R. Co., supra, at 671 n. 22; ScrippsHoward Radio, Inc. v. FCC, 316 U. S. 4, but rather
whether in a specific context NEPA sub silentio revived
judicial power that had been explicitly eliminated by
Congress. Calvert Cliffs' and Committee for Nuclear
Responsibility have nothing to say on this issue, for
neither was concerned with a specific statute thIat restricts
the power of the federal courts to grant injunctions.2
Our conclusion that the District Court lacked the power
to grant the present injunction is confirmed by the fact
that each of the policies that we identified in Arrow as
the basis for § 15 (7) would be substantially undermined
if the courts were found to have suspension powers simply
because noncompliance with NEPA was alleged.
First, Arrow found that the Commission had been
granted exclusive suspension powers in order to avoid
the diverse results that had previously been reached by
the courts. District courts had differed as to the existence
and scope of any power to grant interim relief, with the
consequence that the uniformity of rates had been jeopardized, and different shippers, carriers, and areas of
the country had been subjected to disparate treatment.
Similarly, since a suit to enjoin a national rate increase
on NEPA grounds could be brought in any federal district court in the country, see 28 U. S. C. §§ 2284, 23212325, the result might easily be that the courts would
22 Indeed Calvert Cliffs' indicated that the requirements of § 102
of NEPA, see n. 8, supra, did not have to be complied with, if such
compliance was precluded by another statutory provision. 146 U. S.'
App. D. C., at 39, 449 F. 2d, at 1115. And Committee for Nuclear
Responsibility, in another context, endorsed a principle, equally applicable here, that "repeal by implication is disfavored." 149 U. S.
App. D. C. 380, 382, 463 F. 2d 783, 785.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of the Court

"[reach] diverse results, .... .[engendering] confusion
and [producing] competitive inequities." 372 U. S., at
663. In short, a rate increase allowed in New York
might be disallowed in New Jersey.
Second, we stressed in Arrow that § 15 (7) represents a
careful accommodation of the various interests involved.
The suspension period was limited as to time to prevent
excessive harm to the carriers, for the revenues lost during that period could not be recouped from the shippers.
On the other hand, Congress was aware that if the Commission did not act within the suspension period, then
the new rates would automatically go into effect and the
shippers would have to pay increased rates that might
eventually be found unlawful. To mitigate this loss,
Congress authorized the Commission to require the carriers to keep detailed accounts and eventually to repay
the increased rates if found unlawful. To allow judicial
suspension for noncompliance with NEPA, would disturb this careful balance of interests. A railroad may
depend for its very financial life on an increased rate.,
and the rate may be perfectly just and reasonable.
Granting an injunction against that rate based -on
the Commission's alleged noncompliance with NEPA,
although the Commission had determined not to suspend
the rate, would deprive the railroad of vitally needed
revenues and result in an unjustified windfall to shipperE.
Finally, we found in Arrow that any survival of 1
judicial power to grant interim injunctive relief would
represent an undesirable interference with the orderly
exercise of the Commission's power of suspension. Similarly, to grant an injunction in the present context, even
though not based upon a substantive consideration of
the rates, would directly interfere with the Coinmission's decision as to when the rates were to go into effect,
and would ignore our conclusion in Arrow that "Congress meant to foreclose a judicial power to interfere

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

with the timing of rate changes which would be out of
harmony with the uniformity of rate levels -fostered by
the doctrine of primary jurisdiction." 372 U. S., at 668.
As the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit explained
in Port of New York Authority v. United States, 451
F. 2d 783, 788, where, on the basis of alleged noncompli.
ance with NEPA, an injunction was sought against a

Commission order refusing to suspend rates:
"The basis of the decision in Arrow--that to per-

mit judicial interference with the Commission's suspension procedures would invite the very disruption
in the orderly review of the lawfulness of proposed'

tariffs that Congress meant to preclude-applies
with equal force to the issue now before us."

Accordingly, because the District Court granted a preliminary injunction suspending railroad rates when it
lacked the power to do so,22 its judgment must be re22

In view of our conclusion that there was no power to grant
the preliminary injunction, it is unnecessary for us to reach the
other questions posed by the parties. For example, the Government
and the railroads urge that, because of the pressures of time, an
environmental impact statement is not required at the suspension
stage of a rate proceeding, and, in any event, a decision by the
Commission whether or not to suspend rates is not subject to
judicial review. See Port of New York Authority v. United States,
451 F. 2d 783; Oscar Mayer & Co. v. United States, 268 F. Supp.
977; M. C. Kiser Co. v. Central of Georgia R. Co., 236 F. 573;
FreeportSulphur Co. v. United States, 199 F. Supp. 913; Luckenbach
S. S. Co. v. United States, 179 F. Supp. 605; Carlsen v. United
States, 107 F. Supp. 398. The appellees in turn contend that
some compliance with NEPA is possible at the suspension stage,
and that such compliance is required if the statute is to be
enforced "to the fullest extent possible." See, 42 U. S. C. § 4332.
And they urge that there is, or should be, an exception to the genera"
principle of nonreviewability of suspension decisions for those cases
where the Commission has acted beyond its statutory authority, or
in violation of a clear statutory command or a procedural requirement, a standard that the appellees view as broad enough to en-

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DoDOL S, J., dissenting in part

versed and the cases remanded to that court for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE PowELL took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKxUN,
BRENNAN joins, concurring.

with whom MR.

JusTIcE

I join the Court's judgment and its opinion, but because of the presence of the first sentence of Part III
of the opinion, -and to avoid any misunderstanding as
to my posture, I add a few words.
For the reasons stated in my dissenting opinibn in
Sierra Club v. Morton, 405 U. S. 727, 755 (1972), I
would hold that the appellees here have standing to
maintain this .action based on their allegations of harm
to the enviromnent resulting from the Commission's
order of April 24, 1972. And, in evaluating whether injunctive relief is warranted, I would not require that the
appellees, in their individual capacities, prove that they
in fact were injured. Rather, I would require only that
appellees, as responsible and sincere representatives of
environmental interests, show that the environment
would be injured in fact and that such injury would be
irreparable and substantial.
MR. JUSTICE DoUGLAs, dissenting in part.

These cases present important environmental problems. They concern ratemaking for the shipment of
compass alleged noncompliance with NEPA. See NajhTsol Refining
Co. v. United States, 2q9 F. Supp. 530, 532; Oscar Mayer & Co.
v; United States, supra, at 982 (Doyle, J., concurring); Long Island
R. Co. v. United States, 193 F. Supp. 795. We express no view
on any of these issues.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
DouaGs, J., dissenting in part
litter for recycling.

412 U. S.

Paper, glass, and metals are the

main items in today's garbage., As indicated by the
Bureau of Mines in Appendix I to this opinion, America's
method of disposing of garbage is either to use it for
landfill or to put it first through incinerators and then
to bury the residue. Sorting and recycling have several
environmental impacts: (1) reduction in the use of incinerators lessens air pollution; (2) establishing or encouraging removal of litter from the landscape; (3) recycling
saves both renewable and nonrenewable resources. As
respects the last, the tons of paper that are recycled,
rather than burned, can be translated into the number
of star.ding trees that need not be cut for pulp the next

year; the metals recycled protect our remaining nonrenewable supplies of ore, and so on.
Rates fixed so as to encourage vast shipments of litter
are, therefore, perhaps the most immediate and dramatic

illustration of a policy which will encourage protection
'In a Bureau of Mines' survey, it was established that metals and
glass account for approximately 75 percent of the weight of the residues in municipal incinerator waste. Economics of Recycling Metals
and Minerals from Urban Refuse, Bureau of Mines Technical Progress Report No. 33, p. 2 (Apr. 1971). From these materials, if recycled, familiar products such as bottles, newspapers, iron ingots,
paper pulp, fuel oil, and methane gas can be manufactured. In addition, new products are being developed, such as glassphalt for street
paving, insulation, glass wool, and glass bricks, in various colors that
meet specifications for "severe weather" facing brick. Id., at 7.
This project was launched under the Resource Recovery Act of
1970, 84 Stat. 1227, 42 U. S. C. § 3251 et seq., under which the Secretary of HEW was authorized to provide technical and financial
assistance in planning and developing resource recovery and solid
waste disposal programs.
For a detailed account of a Resource Recovery Mill see Ross, How
to Succeed in Recycling, Environmental Quality Magazine, June
1973, p. 51.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DouGLAS, J., dissenting in part

of the environment against several erosive conditions 2
I would, therefore, affirm the eminently responsible de-

cision of the District Court. 346 F. Supp. 189.
The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 83
Stat. 852, 42 U. S. C. § 4321 et seq., declares a congressional policy
"which will encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between man and his environment;
to promote efforts which will prevent or eliminate
damage to the environment and biosphere and stimulate the health and welfare of man; to enrich the
understanding of the ecological systems and natural
resources important to the Nation; and to establish a Council on Environmental Quality." 42

U. S. C. § 4321.
That broad policy is further expounded in § 4331 (b)
to include, inter alia, the objective that "the Nation

may... (2) assure for all Americans safe, healthful, productive, and esthetically and culturally pleasing surroundings .. .. and (6) enhance the quality of renewable
resources and ... depletable resources."
2 The necessity of reasonable transportation rates is even more apparent when it is realized that the volume of residue which is processed at a major recycling plant is between 250 and 1,000 tons per
day. (Economics of Recycling Metals and Minerals from Urban
Refuse, supra, n. 1, at 1.) Massive bulk transportation is therefore
essential to these plant operations. ,
The problem is even more critical in urban areas where there is a
high concentration of solid waste being generated and transportation
to outlying recycling plants is a -major cost factor. In 1968 a national survey found that an average of 8.2 pounds of waste per
capita was collected daily in urban areas; this figure has now risen
to 9 pounds. If present trends continue, this figure could be as high,
as 12 pounds in another 10-years. In our urban areas as a whole,
the solid waste generated is fast approaching a ton a year for each
man, woman, and child. Kramer, Energy Conservation and Waste
Recycling, Science and Public Affairs 13, 17 (Apr. 1973).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

DOuGLAS, J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

The Government urges that appellees do not have
standing to challenge the administrative determination
of railroad freight rate increases. SCRAP alleged in its
amended complaint that its members suffered environmental and economic injury as a result of the alleged increase, because the increase diminished the total amount
of waste recycling in the United States, and made those
products, which were in fact manufactured from the waste
materials after the rate increase, more expensive in the
marketplace. In addition, SCRAP alleged that each
of its members in fact used the "forests, rivers, streams,
mountains, and other natural resources . . ." for recreational purposes, and these uses were adversely affected
because the Commission's rate increases discourage the
reuse of recyclable commodities, such as bottles and
cans, aid encourage the depletion of natural resources.
In Sierra Club v. Morton, 405 U. S.727, 734, this Court
stated that, "We do not question that [environmental]
harm may aAiount to*an 'injury in fact' sufficient to lay
the basis for standing under . . .the APA [5 U. S. C.
§ 702]. Aesthetic and environmental well-being, like economic well-being, are important ingredients of the quality
of life in our society, and the fact that particular environmental interests, are shared by the many rather than the
few does not make them less deserving of legal protection
through the judicial process." The members of SCRAP
have clearly alleged an "injury in- fact" to the environment and to their own personal continued use of it.
"There is nothing unusual or novel in granting the
consuming public standing to challenge admhinistrative
actions." Office of Communication of United Church
of Christ v. FCC, 123 U. S. App. D. C. 328, 359 F. 2d 994.
This Court has indicated that where "statutes are con-"
cerned, the trend is toward enlargement of the class of
people who may protest administrative action." Data
Processing Service v. Camp, 397 U. S. 150,. 154.

- UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DouGLAs, J., dissenting in part

Littering is a commonplace phenomenon that affects
every person, almost everywhere. From reports and writings we know that littering defaces mountain trails,
alpine meadows, and even our highest peaks. Those in
the valleys are often almost inundated with litter.
Where a river is polluted and a person is dependent on
it for drinking water, I suppose there would not be the
slightest doubt that he would have standing in court to
present his claim. I also suppose there is not the slightest doubt that where smog settles on a city, any person
who must breathe that air or feel the sulphuric acid forming in his eyes, would have standing in court to present
his claim. I think it is equally obvious that any resident
of an area whose paths are strewn with 'litter, whose
parks, or picnic grounds are defaced by it has standing
to tender, his complaint to the court. Sierra Club v.
Morton, spra,would seem to cover this case, for littering
abetted by the failure to recycle would clearly seem to
implicate residents to whom "the aesthetic and recrea'tional vaues of the area" are important. Id., at 735.
For the reasons stated in my opinion in Sierra Club v.
Morton, supra, I agree with the. Court that appellees
have standing, but like MR. JusTiCE BICoKTjUN, I would
not require appellees, in their individual capacity, to
prove.injury in fact. As MR. JuscIC BIAcxmuN states,
it should be sufficient if appellees, "as responsible and
sincere representatives of enyironmnental interests, show
that the environment would b~e injured in fact ....
-°II

The Council on 'Environmental Quality (CEQ), created in the Executive Office of the President, 42 U. S. C.
-§ 4342; estimated In 1969 that this Nation produced more
than 4.3 billion tons of solid refuse, including about 30
million tons of paper, 30 million tons of industrial fly
ash, 15 million *tons of wcfap metal, 4 million tons of

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
DouGiAs, J.,

diisenting in part

*412 U. S.

plastics, 100 million automobile tires, 30 billion bottles,
60 billion cans, and millions of discarded autoiiobiles
and appliances. First Annual Report of CEQ, Aug. 1970,
pp. 107-113. It reported that while most of the secondary material could be reused as a replacement' for
virgin material, only a small fraction was recycled. Ibid.
One of the reasons for the absence of recycling was the
high cost both of collection of the material and the transportation costs. Ibid.
As noted, one of the purposes of the Act was to "enhance the quality of renewable resources and approach
the maximum attainable -recycling of depletable resources." 42 U. S. C. § 4331 (b) (6). On October 9,
1970, Chairman Russell Train of CEQ wrote the Interstate Commerce Commission as follows:
"The Council on Environmental Quality is deeply
concerned with all facets of environmental quality.
Solid waste disposal is one important aspect of the
total pollution problem, and recycling is a new and
desirable alternative to solid waste disposal which
the Council strongly supports. The degree to which
this technique will be used depends almost entirely
on economics. Transportation costs, to the degree
they increase secondary or scrap materials costs compared to the raw materials with which they compete,
act as a disincentive to recycling. The Council believes that several rail haul costs biases currently
exist and would like to discuss these cases with
you. . . . In general, across-the-board percentage
increases only widen existing price biases against
secondary materials. Also, these increases raise the
costs of doing business which can hinder the salvage
and reclamation industry.
"In light of the President's concern with environmental quality, the growing problems of solid waste

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DOuGLAS, J., dissenting in part

and the importance of recycling to alleviating them,
I would like to express the Council's hope that the
Interstate Commerce Commission's actions on the
key issue of scrap material transportation rates will
be consistent with the Nation's environmental quality goals." App. 68.
In December 1971 substantially all the railroads filed
with the Commission a request to impose a 2.5% surcharge on virtually all freight. The procedural details
which followed are not presently material. Suffice it- to
say that shippers 9 f recyclable materials submitted verified statements in support of their view that rate increases
would intensify the disincentives to shipment and use of
recyclable materials. Thus the Institute for Scrap Iron
and Steel submitted a study showing:
"(1) Present scrap markets are retarded because
of transport rates which encourage the usage of iron
ore. (2) .Future
scrap markets are being affected
because new investment that would logically be directed to scrap-intensive steelmaking is diverted because of the existing freight rate structure to oreintensive steelmaking.
(3) Iron ore (a limited
domestic natural resource) is being exploited when
it can and should be conserved. (4) Some scrap iron
that should be recycled is unable to move, thus the
environment is despoiled by unnecessary accumulations of solid metallic waste." T. Barnes, Impact
of Railroad Freight Rates on the Recycling of Ferrous Scrap (Jan. 14, 1972).
The Commission instituted a proceeding, concerning
the guidelines which environmental impact statements
required under tht Act should follow. 339 I. C. C. 508.
A spokesman for the eastern railroads filed an impact
statement which said that "any possible adverse environmental impact in the form of reduced movements of com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Douwhs, J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

modities by rail will come only if we fail to pyovide
adequate and efficient service" and that the need of the
railroads to that end was for increased revenues. Appellees filed a protest and a request for a suspension of
the proposed surcharge alleging that the present railroad
rate structure discourages the movement of "recyclable"
goods and that "the surcha-ge would further discourage
recycling.
The Commission, allowing the surcharge for a limited
period, found that it would 'have no significant adverse
effect in the movement of traffic by railway or on the
quality of the human environment" within the meaning
of the 1969 Act. See 340 I. C. C. 358; 341 7. C. C. 287.
Chairman Train of CEQ protested to the Commission
on October 30, 1972:
'Itis understandable that difficulties will be encountered in quantifying the environmental consequences of an incremental freight rate increase on,
recyclable materials. In our view, however, these
consequences must be assessed 'in the light of the
rate disparity between secondary and primary materials that gives rise to the problem in the first place.
This disparity is a matter of an entirely different
magnitude, calling for a thorough environmental
assessment as a precondition to determining whether
subsequent incremental increases require additional
environmental impact statements...
Clearly at
some point increases which might be individually
'insignificant' become cumulatively 'significant.' In
addition, the claim that freight rates -on recycled
products must be increased to iespond, to 'emergency'
revenue needs pending completion of the required,
overall environmental evaluation, loses much of its
force as months turn into years and the basic investigation remains uncompleted. Finally, even the
'emergency' argument itself, however legitimate, in-

JNITRD STATES v. SCRAP
669

DoUGLAs, J., dissenting in part'
no way forecloses the consideration of alternatives
which would both meet revenue needs and at the

same time avoid further potential environmental
damage while the basic rate structure issue is, being
resolved. Alternatives of this sort were, in fact,
suggested in the partial dissenting opinions of Commissioners Brown and Deason (who would have denied approval of increases for recyclable commodities), with no indication in the Comniission's majority

report that such measures would not have been
sufficient to meet the revenue needs relied on to
justify the rate increases..'. . In summary, the

Council feels that the basic environmental issues related to the existing freight rate structure and
changes thereto, must be evaluated in a logical,

analytical and timely fashion in compliance with the
requirements of the National Environmental Policy
Act. The Commission's actions to date appear to

be inconsistent with the objectives of NEPA, and the
analyses undertaken to date by the Commission appear to offer an inadequate basis from which to
draw conclusions concerning the impact of freight
rates on recycling and enviromental quality. Our

'staff is available to discuss the NEPA procedural issues as well as to assist in structuring the analytical

work required to assess adequately the environmental
impact of freight, rates."
3

3

App. 87-89.

In his report before the Senate, Senator Jackson, one of the three
legislators most responsible for NEPA, stated: "To insure that the policies and goals defined in this act are infused into the ongoing programs
and actions of the Federal Government, the' act also establishes some
important 'action-forcing' procedures. Section 102 authorizes and
directs all Federal agencies, to the fullest extent possible, to administer their existing laws,'regulations, and policies in conformance
with the policies set forth in this act. It also directs all agencies
to assure consideration of the environmental impact of their actions
in decision-making. It requires agencies which propose actions to

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
DouGrAs, J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

The three-judge District Court held that the conclusion
of the Commission that the rate increase would h've "no
significant adverse effect" on the environment within the
meaning of EPA was "transparent" and "a ruse." 346
F. Supp., at 200-201. This leads to an analysis of § 102
of NEPA.4

That section is directed to "all agencies of the Federal
Government," which of course includes the Interstate
Commerce Commission. It directs the agency to interpret
and administer "the policies, regulations, and public laws"

which it administers "to the fullest extent possible" in
accordance with the policies of EPA. It directs the
agency I to include in "major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment" a detailed statement "by the responsible official
on-(i) the environmental impact of the proposed action,
(ii) any adverse environmental effects which cannot be

avoided should the proposal be implemented, (iii) alternatives to the proposed action, (iv)

the relationship

consult with appropriate Federal and State agencies having jurisdiction or expertise in environmental matters and to include any
comments made by those agencies which outline the environmental
considerations involved with such proposals.
"Taken together, the provisions of section 102 directs [sic] any
Federal agency which takes action that it must take into account
environmental management and environmental quality considerations." 115 Cong. Rec. 40416 (1969).
4 The totality of § 102 is so important to this litigation that I have
set it forth in Appendix II to this dissent.
5 Senator Jackson was repored as saying:
"We expected Section 102 of the act which requires environmental
impact statements and analysis of alternatives for all major federal
actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment
to force the agencies to move. . .
We did not anticipate that it
would be private parties through the courts that would force the
compliance. This is what has made it Work." Cahn, Can Federal
Law Help Citizens Save Nature's Fragile Beauty?, Christian Science
Monitor 12 (Feb. 28, 1973).

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DouGLAS, T., dissenting in part

between local short-term uses of masn' environment and
the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity, .and- (v) any -irreversible and irretrievable
commitments of resources which would be involved in
the proposed action should it be implemented. Prior
to making any detailed' tatement, the responsible
Federal official shall consult with and obtain the
comments of any Federal agency which has juirisdiction
by law or special expertise with respect to any environmental impact involved. Copies of such statement and the comments and views of the appropriate
Federal, State, and local agencies, which are authorized
to develop and enforce environmental.standards, shall be
made available to the President, the Council on Environmental Quality and to the public as provided by section
552 of Title 5, ...
and shall accompany the proposal
through the existing agency review processes." 83 Stat.
853.
Rates affecting litter, like rates affecting other commodities, obviously are relevant to the ease and expedition with which it will be transported. To get the
litter to appropriate recycling plants in the quantities
needed to protect our fast depleting forests and our nonrenewable resources I and to relieve our landscape of the
litter that plagues us may need special incentive rates.
The report, H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 91-765, makes clear
that no agency of the Federal Government is exempt and
that each should comply unless existing law applicable
to the agency "expressly prohibits or makes full compli*Waldo E. Smith, of the American Geophysical Union, recently
stated: "The total supply of most metals is sharply limited; even now
we -must dig deeper, go farther, and use lower grade ores. No optimism is justified here. The supply can be extended substantially by
intelligent recycling, which should be an important by-product of our
cleaning up to maintain a clean environment." Resources and LongForecasts, Science and Public Affairs 21, 22 (May 1973).

OCTOBER- TERM, 1972

DouGizs, J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

ance with one of the directives impossible." The report
states:
"The purpose of the new language is to make it clear
'that each agency of the Federal Government shall
comply with the directives set out in such subparagraphs (A) through (H) unless the existing law
applicable to such agency's operations expressly prohibits or makes full compliance with one of the directives impossible. If such is found to be the case,
then compliance with the particular. directive is not
immediately required. However, as to other activities of that agency, compliance is required. Thus,
it is the intent of the conferees that the provision 'to
the fullest extent possible' shall not be used by any
Federal agency as a means of avoiding compliance
with the directives set out in section 102. Rather,
the language in section 102 is intended to assure
that all agencies of the Federal Government shall
comply with the directives set out in said section
'to the fullest extent possible' under their statutory
authorizations and that no agency shall utilize an
excessively narrow construction of its existing statutory authorizations to avoid compliance." Id., at
9-10.
The District Court, &cting responsibly in light of
the broad and clear-cut policy of the Act concluded that
it sets a "'high standard' "for federal agencies, that there
is no "'escape hatch for footdragging agencies,'" that.the
Act does not make the preparation and use of these impact statements "'discretionary,'" that Congress did not
intend that this Act be "'a paper tiger.'" 346 F. Supp.,
at 199.'
7When Congress desires exceptions to be made to the impact
statement requirement under the NEPA, 6xpress exemption is
provided. For example, Pub. Law 92-307, 86 Stat. 191, pro-

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DoUGLAs, J., dissenting in part

Arrow Transportation Co.- v. Southern R. Co., 372
U. S. 658, does not preclude review here. In Arrow there
were rates which the Commission had the power to suspend but had not suspended. The power of suspension
was entrusted to the Commission only; and we held that
the courts should not intrude when the Commission has
not acted. Here the Commission has acted; it has found
that "the increases here proposed are just and reasonable,
that the revenues derived therefrom will result in earnings
vides that the Atomic Energy Commission can grant a temporary operating license for a nuclear power reactor without the
completion of an environmental impact statement, if the application for the operating license was filed before September 9, 1971,
and the Commission holds a hearing which leads to the findings,
among others, that the operation of the facility during the period
of the temporary -operating license in accordance with its terms and
conditions will provide adequate protection of the environment during that period and that the operation of the facility is essential
toward insuring the power-generating capacity of a utility system.
The Commission is empowered to impose such terms and conditions
as it deems necessary, and its decision is subject to judicial review.
Some federal agencies are taking affirmative action to promote the
purposes of § 105. Thus the Securities and Exchange Commission
recently adopted amendments to its registration and reporting forms.
to require more meaningful disclosure of certain items pertaining to
the effect on the issuer's business of compliance with federal, state,
and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The amendments will require as a part of the description of the issuer's business, appropriate disclosures with respect to
the material effects which compliance with environmental laws and
regulations may have upon the capital expenditures, earnings, and
competitive position of the issuer and its subsidiaries. Other amendments describe the extent to which litigation disclosures should contain specific descriptions of environmental -proceedings. Securities
and Exchange Comm'n Release (Securities Act Rel, No. 5386,
Apr. 20, 1973). See Sientists' Institute v. AEC, 156 U. S. App. D. C.
395, 481 F; 2d 1079, holding that an impact statement must be

filed for the Atomic Energy Commission's liquid metal fast breeder'
reactor program.

OCTOBER T ERAI, 1972

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

and rates of return.. . not inexcess of that required to
enable" the carriers "to render adequate and efficient
transportation at the lowest cost consistent with the
furnishing' of such service." Ex parte 281, Order of
Feb. 1, 1972 (unreported).
The Conmission said it
was not- prescribing rates, though it attached conditions on approval of the rates without suspension.
It made clear -it would suspend the new rates if
the conditions were not added. As stated by the threejudge court: "A suspension decision which effectively
blackmails the carriers into submitting agency-autlored
rates is functionally indistinguishable from an agency
order setting those rates." 346 F. Supp., at 197.
Moreover, as the three-judge court held and as Judge
Friendly observed in City of New York v. United States,
337 F. Supp. 150, 164, "NEPA is a new and unusual
statute imposing substantive duties which overlie those
imposed on an agency by the statute or statutes for which
it has jurisdictional responsibility."
The Court today greatly weakens NEPA in a crucially important segment of the federal environmental
field. 'Movement of litter to recycling plants 8 is critically important, as Chairman Train makes abundantly
clear. The alternative is to leave it underfoot or to cart
it off as garbage to incinerators that pollute the air or to
landfills that are getting more and more difficult to find."
We know that recycled paper, recycled copper, recycled
Senator Jackson recently was reported as saying about these
impabt statements:
"We also should be able to get generic environmental impact statementsa-updated every six months or so-for energy policy, trans-

portation policy, and other major policy decisions."

Ca&n,supra,

n. 5.
8

Most of the Nation's waste is relocated into dumps with only
approximately 10% to 15% finding its way into sanitary'landfills.
Kramer, supra, n. 2, at 17.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

DouGLAs, J., dissenting in part

iron, and recycled glass are practical. The Federal Bureau of Mines in its pilot plant at Edmonston, Maryland,
boasts that "urban ore," as it calls this debris, costs about
.83 a ton and recycled is worth $11 a ton. We know that
we deal here with nonrenewable resources. We are told
that recycling paper saves thousands of acres of trees
a year. 0
Under the Act, te appraisal by the Council on Environmental Quality of which Russell Train is the chairman is a weighty one, for under §204 of the Act it has the
responsibility "to appraise thi various programs and
activities of the Federal Government" in light of the
policy of the Act and "to develop and recommend ...
national policies to foster and promote the improvement
of environmental quality." 83 Stat. 855; 42 U. S. C.
§§ 4344 (3), (4). CEQ is, in other words, the expert
ombudsman in the environmental area.
20 Congressman Dingell, another main sponsor of NEPA, recently
was reported as saying:
"The success of the environmental impact statements is not so jmuch
that they were used as we intended they should, but that citizens
have been able to use the prodess as a [way] to get into courts....
Some agencies are complying poorly. They decide what they are
going to do and then write an environmental impact statement to
support the decision. That is not what Congress had in mind. I
am fearful that we are breeding a race of impact statement writers
who put all the right words down but don't really get environmental
concerns involved in the decision-making process. The impact
statement itself is not important. The important thing is that
proper judgments are made reflecting environmental considerations
in the decision-making process. The impact statement should be
a discipline for this and also a process by which the public can be
informed and brought into the decision-making process." Cahn,

supra, n. 5.
For a recent account of -impact statements on transportation problems see Robert Cdhn (former member of CEQ), Environmentalists
Wary of Transport Trend, Christian Science Monitor 12 (Feb. 28,
1973).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Appendix I to opinion of DouL&s, J., dissenting in part 412 U. S.
The apparent tendency among federal agencies, Congressman Dingell says,"' is to decide first what they want
to do and theit prepare an impact stateinent as an apologia
for what they have done. That puts the cart before the
horse. That is what the Commission did here. But that
is to adopt "an excessively narrow construction" of its
statutory power "to avoid compliance" with the new
environmental standards--all as condemned in the Conference report, supra,'at 10. That is to say, environmental considerations are, so far-as possible, to shape all
agency policies and decisions.
These cases are, indeed, Exhibit A of the current practice of federal agencies to undermine the policy announced by Congress in NEPA. Rail xates were long
discriminatory in retarding the industrial development
of the South. New York v. United States, 331 U. S. 284.
The present rates are, arguably discriminatory against
the removal of the litter which is about to engulf us.
The wisdom of Chairman Train, rather than the technical
maneuvers of -he Commission, should be our guide.
I would affirm the judgment of the District Court.
APPENDIX I TO OPINION OF DOUGLAS, J.,
DISSENTING IN PART
•The Bureau of Mines had at Edmonston, Maryland, for
several years an incinerator residue processing plant on
the basis of which Lowell, Massachusetts, instituted its
Resource Recovery Project.
The Ednonston' project is now engaged in recycling of
raw waste- and the following is the Bureau's description
of the natfire and scope of that project.
*1

See n. 10, iupra.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669 Appendix I to opinion of DoUGLAs, J., dissenting in part

FACT SHEET
Edmonston (Md.) Solid Waste Recycling Project
Bureau of Mines
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
An important part of the solid waste utilization research carried
on by the Bureau of Mines is to develop methods and processes for
recycling mineral materials present in urban refuse. Engineers from
the Bureau's College Park (Md.) Metallurgy Research Center operate a pilot plant at Edmonston, Maryland, where they reclaim ferrous
metals, nonferrous metals, glass, plastics, and paper from rA-v unburned refuse. The following facts are pertinent to the research
underway at the Edmonston pilot plant.
xxx-100 pounds of typical municipal refuse contains:
* 36.6 pounds of paper and cardboard; 202 pounds of garbage;
8.4 pounds of metal; 8.5 pounds of glass; 17.4 pounds of leaves,
grass, hedge clippings and tree prunings; 2.6 pounds of scrap
wood; 1. pound of plastics; and 52 pounds of miscellaneous
material including leather, rubber, textiles, bricks, stones, and
dirt.
xxx-Urban refuse generated in the U. S. in 1972 totaled 300 million
tons, or the equivalent of more then 8 pounds daily for every
man, woman, and child.
xxx--Only 220 million tons of municipal refuse was regularly collected by public agencies and private firms. The remainder
(80 million tons) was abandoned, dumped at the point of
origin, or hauled to uncontrolled disposal sites.
xxx-The volume of municipal refuse accumulating in the U. S. in a
single year would cover an area half the size of the State of
Connecticut (2,500 sq. mi.) with a layer of refuse 1 foot deep.
This refuse contains some 12 million tons of iron and steel, 13
million tons of glass, and over a million tons of aluminum, zinc,
lead, tin, and copper.
xxx-Collecting and disposing of refuse costs cities an average of
$23 per ton ($18, for collection and $5, for disposal). New
York City, at a cost of $40 per ton, spends almost a million

dollars each day to collect and dispose of solid waste. T6tal
U. S. bill runs about $6 billion annually.
xxx-Most municipal refuse is dispqsed of by dumping, landfill, or
incineration. About 30 million tons of municipal refuse is

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Appendix I to opinion of DouorAs,- J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

burned annually in more than 300 municipal incinerators.
These incinerators generate 7.5 million tons of residues, which
are then buried. The process developed by the Buresu to
reclaim the values from incinerator residues has attracted worldwide attention. A commercial size plant of this type will soon
be under construction in Lowell, Massachusetts, with seventyfive percent of the $32 million required, being"provided by the
Environmental Protection Agency.
xx,--Successful reclamation of mineral values from incinerator residues at the Bureau's pilot plant prompted research to save
also that part of municipal refuse that is now being lost during
burning. This would reduce the need for building more municipal incinerators, saving their construction and operating costs,
and .would bring income from salvaged paper and plastics as
well as metals and glass. It would also eliminate air pollution
problems connected with incineration.
xxx-Equipment for mechanical separation of metals, glass, paper,
and plastics from municipal refuse before incineration has been
assembled at Edmonston. The process involves coarse shredding of the refuse, followed with air classification, magnetic
separation, screening, optical sorting, electrostatic separation,
and gravity concentration-all proven methods used in the
minerals industries.
xxx-Other refuse recycling schemes have been proposed and some
are already under development. The process developed by the
Bureau is unique in the following major respects: (1) it is
the only process that embodies a complete system, (2) it is the
only process capable of capturing and concentrating putrescibles
and glass, (3) it is the only process that produces a tin can product suitable for detinning, (4) it is the only process capable of
accepting extremely massive pieces of metal, (5) it is the only
process that can successfully separate plastics and paper, and
(6) energy requirements for the Bureau's process are by far
the least of all-proposed processes.
xxx-A plant processing 1,000 tons of raw refuse per day could be
expected to reclaim each day enough ferrous metal to make all
the iroli and steel parts for more than 55 4-door sedans.
xxx-About 36 billion bottles are discarded each year in the U. S.
as solid waste. Each American discards a glass bottle on the
average of about one every two days. The average returnable
beer bottle used to make 31 round trips from the brewery, to
the consumer, and back to the brewery. The average is nov-

UNITED STATES v. SCR

717

669 Appendix I to opinion of DouGLAs, J., dissenting in part
19 trips. In some cities, it is only 4. People are discriminating
less between returnable and non-returnable bottles.
xxx-Glass reclaimed from raw refuse can be used in making new
glass, or for such salable products as building bricks, mineral
wool for insdlation, and road surfacing (when ground and
mixed with asphalt).
=x-Alumintun present in refuse in the form of cans alone amounts
to 10 percent of the total primary production. This metal together with other aluminum recovered from refuse would find
a ready market at existing secondary smelters for conversion
to high grade casting alloys.
xxx-The other heavy nonferrous metals could be used readily in
producing brass ingot or the mixture could be further refined
and separated into the constituent metals.
xxx-The rate at which we generate refuse is growing so fast that
within 20 years, even if we are able tk recycle 70 percent of
our solid wastes our needs for landfill space will remain the
same. And landfill space is, even now, becoming harder and
harder to find.
[Refuse-disposal and refuse-recovery charts appear on
pp. 718 and 719 respectively.]

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Appendix I to opinion of DouGLAS, J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

URDAIREFUSE DISPOSAL IN THE UNITED STATES 1972

Operating municipal
incinerators
7.5 million
tons

30 million

Inc inerator residues
presently going to dumps.
Could be diverted to
residue plants.

ffunlcipal refuse of
type which could be

Ec'

diverted to

Processing plants.<
140 K household
20 N coa~erciel

130 million
Municipal refuse
tons 20
" HoCould
now going to dumps.
be diverted

"Ito raw refuse

160 million
tons annually
[

processing systems.

Urban ore

Average composition

(Urban refuse)
300 million tons
Sgenerated Inuall .Y

applies to 160 million tons
municipal refuse oni
Material
Percent
Nonferrous metal
Ferrous metal
Paper
Food waste
Yard waste
Plastics
Leather, rubber
Wood
Te.tlles
Dirt

140 million
tons annually

Other urban refuse
contains
80 H coammercial
30 X fly ash
2 H junk autos
3 f tires
2 M appliances
23 11misc. rubble,
light industrial
waste, trees,
rocks, other

.7
7.7
36.6
20.2
17.4
1.1
1.5
2.6
2.0
1.7

Average composition of
Incinerator residues
Material
Ferraus

m~ta)

Nonferrous metal
140 million
tons

Ash and slag

Percent
34.0
q~n.

2.8
32.4

Disposed In part to
dumps, by abandonment
or disposal at origin,
litter, other

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669 Appendix I to opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part

BUREAU OF MINES DRYSORT REFUSE RECOVERY SYSTEM

0

w
400 c".

"

AIM~S

719

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Appendix II to opinion of DOUGLAS, J., dissenting in part 412 U. S.

APPENDIX II TO OPINION OF DOUGLAS, J.,
DISSENTING IN PART
Section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act,
42 U. S. C. § 4332 provides:
§ 42. Cooperation of agencies; reports; availability
of information; recommendations;internationaland national coordination of efforts.
The Congress authorizes and directs that, to the fullest
extent possible: (1) the policies, regulations, and public
laws of the United States shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the policies set forth in
this chapter, and (2) all agencies of the Federal 'Government shall(A) utilize a systematic, interdisciplinary approach which will insure the integrated use of the
natural and social sciences and the environmental
design arts in planning and in decisionmaking which
may have an impact on man's environment;
(B) identify and develop methods and procedures,
in consultation with the Council on Environmental
Quality established by subchapter II of this chapter, which will insure that presently unquantified
environmental amenities and values may be given
appropriate consideration in aecisionmaking along
with economic and technical considerations;
(C) include in every recommendation or report on
proposals for legislation and other major Federal
actions significantly affecting the quality of the
human environment, a detailed statement by the
responsible official on(i) the environmental impact of the proposed
action,

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669 Appendix II to opinion of DouGnAs, J., dissenting in part
(ii) any adverse environmental effects which
cannot be avoided shoild the proposal be
implemented,
(iii) alternatives to the proposed action,
(iv) the relationship between local shortterm uses of man's environment and the main-tenance and enhancement of long-term productivity, and
(v) any irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources which would be in-.
volved in the proposed action should .it be
ir~plemented.
Prior to making any detailed statement, the responsible Federal official shall consult with and obtain
the comments of.any Federal agency which has jurisdiction by law or special expertise with respect to
any environmental impact involved. Copies of
such statement and the comments and views of the
appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, which
are authorized to develop and enforce environmental
standards, shall be made available to the President,
the Council on Environmental Qiality and to the
public as provided by section 552 of Title 5, and
shall accompany the proposal through the existing
agency review processes;
(D) study, develop, and describe appropriate alternatives to recommended courses of action in any
proposal which involves unresolved conflicts concerning alternative uses of available resources;
(E) recognize the worldwide and long-range character of enviroimental problems and, where consistent with the foreign policy of the United States,
lend appropriate -support to initiatives, resolutions,
and programs designed to maximize international

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
WmTz,

J., dissenting in part

412 U. S.

cooperation in anticipating and preventing a decline
in the quality of mankind's world environment;
(F) make available to States, counties, municipalities, institutions, and individuals, advice and information useful in restoring, maintaining, and enhancing the quality of the environment;
(G) initiate and utilize ecological information in
the planning and development of resource-oriented
projects; and
(H) assist the Council on Envirbnmental Quality
established by subchapter II of this chapter.
Pub. L. 91-190, Title I, § 102, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 853.
MR. JusT=B WHITE, with whom TEI CHIErF JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST join, dissenting in part.
I would reverie the judgment of the District Court
and- order the complaint dismissed because appellees
lack standing to bring this suit. Non of our cases, including inferences that may be drawn from dicta in
SierraClub v. Morton, 405 U. S. 727 (1972), Where we denied standing to petitioner there, are sufficient to confer
standing on plaintiffs in circumstances like these. The allegations here do not satisfy the threshold requirement of
injury in fact for constituting a justiciable case or controversy. The injury alleged is that the failure of the Commission to suspend a 2.5% freight rate increase may discourage the transportation of recyclable materials, thus
retarding the use of recycled materials, causing, further
consumption of our forests and natural resources (some
of which might be taken from the Washington metropolitan area), and resulting in more refuse and undisposable materials to further pollute the environment.
The majority acknowledges that these allegations reflect an "attenuated line of dausation," ante, at 688,
but is willing to suspend its judgment in -the dim hope
that proof at trial will in some unexplained way flesh

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Wmm, J., dissenting in part

them out and establish the necessary nexus between these
appellees and the across-the-board rate increase they
complain of. To me, the alleged injuries are so remote,
speculative, and insubstantial in fact that they fail to
confer standing. They become no more concrete, real,
or substantial when it is added that materials will cost
more at the marketplace and that somehow the freight
rate increase will increase air pollution. Allegations
such as these are no more substantial and direct and
no more qualify these appellees to litigate than allegations of a taxpayer that governmental expenditures
will increase his taxes and have an impact on his pocketbook, Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 486-489
(1923), or allegations that governmental decisions are
offensive to reason or morals. The general "right, possessed by every citizen, to require that the ._overnment be
administered according to law and that the public moneys
be not wasted" does not confer standing to litigate in
fPderal courts. Fairchildv. Hughes, 258 U. S. 126, 129
(1922). New York did not have standing to complain
when it asserted'merely the possible adverse effects of
diversion of water from Lake Michigan upon hypothetical
power developments in "the indefinite future." New
York v. Illinois, 274 U. S. 488, 490 (1927). Assumed
potential invasions are insufficient bases for a justiciable
case or controversy. Arizona v. California, 283 U. S.
423, 462 (1931). As I see the allegations in this case,
they are in reality little different from the general-interest allegations found insufficient and too remote in
Sierra Club. If they are sufficient here, we are well on
our way to permitting citizens at large to litigate any
decisions of the Government which fall in an area of
interest to them and with which they disagree.
Assuming, however, that a majority of the Court adheres to the conclusion that a constitutional case or
controversy exists in these circumstances and that plain-

-OCTOBER TEIfM, 1972
Opinion of MARSHALL, J.

412 U. S.

tiffs may sue, I would agree that the District Court erred
in entering an injunction which Congress quite clearly
had long since divested it of the power to enter. Accordingly, I Join Part III of the Court's opinion. I add
only that felure to maintain this country's railroads
even in their present anemic condition will guarantee
that recyclable materials will stay where they are-far
beyond the reach of recycling plants that as a consequence
may not be built at all.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, concurring in part and -dissenting in part.
I fully agree with and join in Part II of the Court's
opinion wherein it sustains the District Court's determination that the appellees have standing to challenge
the 2.5% interim surcharge on the ground that the Interstate Commerce Commission's order of April 24 per.
mitting the surcharge to take effect was not issued in
compliance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), 42 U. S. C.
§ 4321 et seq. The Court goes on, however, to hold in
*Part III of its opinion that the District Court lacked
power to issue a preliminary injunction barring implementation of the surcharge due to the Commission's
alle e;failure to comply with NEPA in the suspension
stage of the rate proceeding. The Court's decision in
this respect is, to be sure, a very narrow one; the decision
clearly concerhs only the scope of remedies available.to
the District Couit in the context of a case of this particular character7 that is, an ICC rate suspension case.
1Given- that the Court holds' only that the District Court lacked
power to grant preliminary injunctive relief, it presumably remains
open to appellees to challenge the Commission's alleged failure to
comply with N13PA in the suspension stage of the proceedings concerning the interim surcharge. in an actioTi for declaratory relief.
*Nor does anything in the Court's opinion .today deny to the dis-

. UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

Opinion of

sEALSLu,
J.

The Court specifically refrains from deciding whether or
not the Commission's alleged failure to comply with
NEPA in the suspension stage is a proper subject for
judicial review and, if so, what would constitute adequate
compliance with NEPA at that juncture in the administrative process. See ante, at 698-699, n. 22. Nonetheless,
I am unable to join the third portion of the Court's
opinion, for I am convinced that there is no lack of judicial power to issue a preliminary injunction against the
interim surcharge in the context of these cases. I therefore fmust respectfully dissent from Part III of the
Court's opinion.
At the outset, it is essential for purposes of analysis to
put the issue upon which the Court disposes of the cases
in proper perspective. Since the Court addresses only
the issue of the District Court's power to grant preliminary relief, we must, of course, assume for the sake of
argument that the issues which the Court does not now
reach-namely, whether the procedural requirements of
NEPA 2 are applicable al the suspension stage and
whether the issue of Commission compliarkce is a proper
one for judicial review 3-- are to. be decided in appellees'
favor. In addition, we must accept for the present
appellees' assertions that the interim surcharge, by raistrict courts power to enjoin the Commission- to comply with
NEPA in the context of a particular rate proceeding so long as no
injunction is issued barring implementation of the rates themselves,
cf. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Wichita Board of Trade,. post,
p. 2800.
See in particular § 102 (2) (C) of the Act, 42 U. S. C.
§ 4332 (2) (C).
3
Cf., e. g., Upper Pecos Assn. v. Stans, 452 F. 2d 1233 (CA10
1971), vacated and remanded for consideration of mootness sub nom.
Upper Pecos Assn. v. Peterson, 409 U. S. 1021 (1972); Calvert
Cliffs' Coordinating Comm. v. Atomic Energy Comm'n, 146 T. S.
App. D. C. 33, 449 F. 2d 1109 (1971); City of New Yor* v. United
States, 337 F. Supp. 150, 158-160 (EDNY 1972).

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of MARSHALL, J.

412 U. S.

"ing the cost of shipping recyclable materials, will further
accentuate the allegedly unjustifiable disparity between
the cost of shipping those materials and the cost of ship,ping primary goods, thereby irrationally encouraging the
use of primary goods which will lead to a further degradation of our environment. In other words, in considering
the question of judicial power, we must accept the correctness of the District Court's determination that there
was a "strong likelihood" that the Commission had erred
in its conclusion that the interim surcharge "'will have
no significant adverse effect on . . . the quality of the
human environment within the ipeaning of the Environmental Policy Act of 1969,' 946 F. Supp., at 200, 201,
a conclusion that had effectively excused the Commission
from compliance with the procedural requirements of
NEPA in the context of the surcharge, see 42 U. S. C.
§ 4332 (2) (C).
Turning then to the issue of judicial power, it must
first be recalled that we deal here with the grant of only
a preliminary injunction; the District Court did not
permanently enjoin enforcement of the interim surcharge
upon determining that the Commission had, in all likelihood, failed to comply with NEPA in the suspension
stage. Properly viewed, I think the injunction at issue
in this case amounts, to nothing more than a legitimate
effort by the District Court, following the Commission's
refusal to suspend the surcharge, to maintain the status
quo pending final judicial determination of the legality
of the Commission's action at the suspension stage in
light of the requirements of NEPA. And, by now, the
equitable power of the federal courts to grant interim
injunctive relief pending determination of an appeal is
well established. The nature of that power was explored
at length by the Court in Scripps-HowardRadio, Inc. v.
PCQ, 316 U. S. 4 (1942), where it was held that a court
of 'appeals had' power, pending determination of an ap-

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

• 727

Opinion of MA&RsHALL, J.

peal, to stay the Federal Communications Commission's
grant of a construction permit although the Federal Communications. Act made no provision for such a stay.
Speaking for the Court, Mr. Justice Frankfurter
explained:
"No court can make time stand still. The circumstances surrounding a controversy may change
irrevocably during the pendency of an appeal, despite
anything a court can do. But within these limits
it is reasonable that an appellate court should be
able to prevent irreparable injury to the parties or
to the public resulting from the premature eiiforcement of a determination which may later be found to
have been wrong. It has always been held, therefore, that as a part'of its traditional equipment for
ihe administration of justice, a federal court can stay
the enforcement of a judgment pending the outcome
of an appeal." Id., at 9-10.
See also FTC v. Dean Foods Co., 384 U. S. 597, 604
(1966); Whitney National Bank in Jefferson Parish v.
Bank of New Orleans & Trust Co., 379 U. S.411; 425
(1965).
This Court has consistently adhered to the view that
it will find federal courts to have been deprived of their
traditional power to stay orders under review only in
the face of the clearest possible evidence of a congressional intent to do so. -See Scripps-Howard Radio, Inc.,
v. FCC, supra, at 11, 15. No such clear intent is to
be found in the Interstate Commerce Act, at least not
with respect to a case such as this where the Commission
has already acted on the relevant issue and the issue lies
in an area outside the Commission's traditional expertise4 In Arrow Transportation Co. v. Southern R.
4

Thus, I cannot accept the Court's assertion that the question
here is "whether in a specific context NEPA sub silentia revived

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of MARsHAL,, J.

412 U. S.

Co., 372 U. S. 658, 664 (1963), this Court specifically acknowledged that "[i]t cannot be said that the legislative
history of the grant of the suspension power to the Commission includes unambiguous evidence of a design to extinguish whatever judicial power may have existed prior
to [the establishment of suspension powers in the Commission] to suspend proposed rates." The Arrow Court
was asked to extend by injunction the statutory sevenmonth suspension period, see 49 U. S. C. § 15 (7), because
the Commission had not reached a decision on the lawfulness of the proposed rates at the end of the 'suspension
period and the rail carriers, following a period of voluntary
suspension, were threatening to implement .the rate
change without awaiting final agency action. Despite
the ambiguity of the legislative history, the Court, upon
careful examination of the character of and reasons for
the suspension scheme, concluded that Congress must
have intended to deprive the federal courts of the power
to suspend rates pending completion of agency action
and- thus that the traditional equitable powers of the federal courts had been overridden to that extent. But, as
detailed consideration of the factors that motivated the
decision in Arrow reveals, this litigation presents a significantly different problem.
The Arrow Court felt that an injunction extending the
suspension period pending final agency action would involve a serious, unintended intrusion on the primary
jurisdiction of the Commission. This problem of primary jurisdiction had two aspects in Arrow. First, where
the issue is the reasonableness of proposed rates, an
application for an injunction against implementation of
judicial power that had been explicitly eliminated by Congress."
Ante, at 696. That is a question which I do not believe need ever be
reached here, for-as shall be seen-Congress has not, to begin with,
deprived the federal courts of their traditional equitable powers in
the context of these cases.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP

669

Opinion of M sHI,

J.

those rates pending final agency action would necessarily
require a federal court "to pass before final Commission
action upon the question of reasonableness of a rate,"
372 U. S., at 671, thereby providing, in effect, an advisory
judicial opinion to the Commission on an issue which
Congress intended that the Cominission decide in the first
instance. Certainly, the Commission's expertise in matters of rail carrier operations and economics is well recognized, and Arrow clearly indicates that the courts should
not interfere with the exercise of that expertise. However, the grant .of preliminary relief here involves no
such interference with the Commission's initial exercise
of its particular expertise.
So far as I am aware, the Commission has never been
deemed especially expert in matters of environmental
policy or impact.' It is, of course, true that the Commission must decide in the first instance whether particular proposed action constitutes "major Federal action
significantly affecting ;the quality of the human environment," thus necessitating agency compliance with
the detailed requirements of § 102 (2) (C) of NEPA, 42
U. S. C. § 4332 (2) (C). But that decision had already
been made in this case prior to the time when judicial
intervention by the District Court was sought--in contrast to the situation in Arrow where the question of the
reasonableness of the rates remained unresolved by the
Commission. Even assuming that some element of
agency expertise is involved in the decision at isst.e here,
the District Court, in granting preliminary relief against
the interim surcharge, passed only upon a question of.
which the Commission had finally disposed, namely, the
environmental impact of not suspending the interim sur5

Administrative expertise in such matters is surely lodged with
the Environmental Protection Agency and the Council on Environmental Quality.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of MARsHALL, J.

412 U. S.

charge and of permitting it to take effect at once. Thus,
for purposes of the particular issue raised here, the
District Court was presented with final agency action 6 and was not in danger of interfering with the
Commission's expertise when it stayed the Commission's
order pending final determination offthe appeals!
The other aspect of the problem of primary jurisdiction focused upon in Arrow was the timing of the implementation of new rates. The Court concluded that
Congress had intended that the Commission should determine when new rates should take effect. See 372 U. S.,
at 668. Insofar as the economic impact of rate increases
was concerned, Congress enacted a scheme which permitted the Commission to take into account the interests
of both rail carriers and shippers. Thus, Congress recognized that economic necessity might persuade the Commission to permit otherwise questionable rates to go
unsuspended while they were being investigated, and, at
most, it allowed the Commission to suspend proposed
rates for only seven months, see 49 U. S. C. §_15 (7). At
the same time, Congress attempted to accommodate the
economic interests of shippers, for it gave the Commission power, pending final agency action, to require the
rail carriers to maintain detailed records of monies received due to the increase and to compel payment of
refunds if a rate increase was ultimately found to be
unreasonable." See ibid.

ICf.

L. Jaffe, Judicial Control of Administrative Action 688

(1965).
1Contrast Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Wichita Board of Trade,
post, p. 800.
sMoreover, even if the Commission fails to require recordkeeping
and the payment of refunds sua sponte, Congress also provided a.
mechanism by which shippers may initiate an action before the
Commission to seek reparations from a carrier on the ground that
particular rates are unreasonable. See 49 U. S. C. § 13 (1).

Arrow Transportation Co. v. Southern, R. Co., 372 U. S. 658

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
669

OpiMion of M

IA

, J.

But where does the Interstate Commerce Act make
provision for an accounting and "refund" to the people
of our Nation for the irreversible ecological damage that
results from a rate increase which discriminates unreasonably against recyclable materials and has been allowed
to take effect without compliance with the procedural
requirements of NEPA?9 The Court today says that
"[t]o allow judicial suspension for noncompliance with
NEPA, would disturb the careful balance of interests"
struck by Congress in the suspension and refund provisions. Ante, at 697. Yet the simple fact is that in the
(1963), to be sure, did not involve an economic dispute between
shippers and rail carriers, but was, instead, an action brought by
water carriers which contended that certain challenged decreases in the
rates of competing rail carriers were designed to destroy them rather
than to reach legitimate economic objectives. Obviously, *the
refund and reparation provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act were of no more value to the water carriers in Arrow than they
are to the nonshiper appellees in this case.. But, as the Court
pointed out in Arrow, " [ e onflicts over rates between competing carriers were familiar to the Commission long before [the enactment of
the suspension provsions] . .

.

. Indeed, in another provision

[namely, 49 U. S. C. § 4 (2)] of the very same statute [that established the suspension powers] Congress ... dealt explicitly with the
reduction of rates by railroads competing with water carriers ....
In addition § 8 of the Act, 49 U. S. C. § 8, creates a private right of
action for damages-based upon conduct violative of the Act-which
might be available ...

."

372 U. S., at 669. Thus, Congress had

taken into account, and had provided for, disputes between competing
carriers, as well as between shippers and carriers, in enacting the suspension provisions. The same can hardly be said for conflicts between
the environmental policies of NEPA and the Commission's suspension
power.
9Indeed, given the substantial element of public interest at stake
in a cale such as this, it is appropriate to recall Mr. Justice Stone's
oft-quoted admonition: "Courts of equity may, and frequently do, go
much farther both to give and withhold relief in furtherance-of the
public interest than they are accustomed to go when only private
interests are involved." Virginian R. Co. v. Systems FederationNo.
40, 300 U. S. 515, 552 (1937).

-OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of MARsHA LT, J.

412 U. S.

carefully designed suspension and refund scheme no balance was struck with respect to the environmental interests that have been recognized by Congress in NEPA
since the introduction of the suspension provisions into
the Interstate Commerce Act. Under these circiffmistances, we can hardly infer aft intent on the part of:
Congress to deprive the federal courts of their traditional responsibility, in passing upon a request for equitable relief, to work an accommodation in each particular
case of the competing interests of.the relevant, parties "that is, of a rail carrier's alleged need for increased income that will otherwise be forever lost each day that
the new rate is not charged and of the extent of irreversible environmental damage that might result if the
rates are not suspended. The District Court, in its
effort to preserve the status quo pending final review
of the Commission's April 24 order, gave full consideration to the effects on all parties of either granting or
denying preliminary relief against the interim surcharge. 1
In then temporarily enjoining the surcharge, I believe
that the District Court acted within the scope of its
legitimate powers.
To summarize, then, I obviously cannot agree with
the Court's assertion that "each of the policies that we
identified in Arrow as the basis for § 15 (7) would be
substantially undermined if the courts were found to
have suspension powers simply because noncompliance
with NEPA was alleged." Ante, at 696. In Arrow itself, the Court was at pains to point out that its deci10 Of. Hecht Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321, 329-330 (1944).
71 Thus, the District Court, fully recognizing the financial plight
of the rail carriers, carefully limited its preliminary injunction to
the application of the interim surcharge to recyclable materials,
"allowing [the rail carriers] to collect the surcharge on all nonrecyclable goods." 346 F. Supp., at 202.

UNITED STATES v. SCRAP
Opinion of

669

733

MARsHAL, J.

sion did not "reflect in any way upon decisions which

have recognized a limited judicial power to preserve the
court's jurisdiction or maintain the status quo by injunction pending review of an agency's action through the
prescribed statutory channels." 372 U. S., at 671 n. 22.
True, the Court went on to say there that "[s]uch
power . . .has never been recognized in derogation of

such a clear congressional purpose to oust judicial power
as that manifested in the Interstate Commerce Act."
Ibid. But the import of that remark must be judged
with a full understanding of the factors underlying the
Arrow Court's finding of "such a clear congressional purpose." As has been seen, close analysis of those factors
identified certainly does not compel extension of the
Arrow holding to the, request for preliminary injunctive
relief in this litigation." The Court would do well to re2 The

Arrow Court also pointed out that experience with judicial

injunctions against rates prior to the establislment of the Commission's suspension powers in § 15 (7) had "resulted in disparity of
treatment as between different shippers, carriers, and sections of the
country, causing in turn 'discrimination .and hardship to the general
public."' 372 1. S., at 664. These results were due both to the
conflicting views 6f lower federal courts as to their power to enjoin
rates pending agency determination of their lawfulness and conflicting judgments of different courts as to the reasonableness of the same
rates. See id., at 663-664. But the danger of conflicting judgments
concerning the same rates and unevenhanded treatment of shippers
and carriers, merely because of the fortuity of the particular judicial
district in which they are located, is not present where, as here, the
allegation is that the Commission has failed to follow the requirements of a statute--NEPA-relevant to the exercise of its regulatory
jurisdiction and the Commission has, as a consequence, been joined
in the suit, as a defendant. So long as the Commission has been
made a party, it is possible to ensure uniforinity of treatment by
enjoining the Commission to exercise its suspension powers where a
failure to comply with NEPA is believed to exist. This is what the
District Court did here when it enjoined the Commission "from permitting . . .the 2.5 per cent surcharge" to be collected by the rail

.

734

OCTOBER TERM; 1972

Opinion of

MARSHALL,

J.

412 U. S.'

member that "[wihere Congress wished to deprive the
courts of [their] historic power [to enjoin orders pending review], it knew how to use apt words ....
" ScrippsHoward Radio, Inc. v. FCC,316 U. S., at 17. Cf. Hecht
Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321, 329 (1944). Nothing in
the language of the Interstate Commerce Act or in the
particular structure of that Act or even in our decision
in-Arrow compels the conclusion that Congress has done
so here. I must therefore dissent from the Court's ultimate disposition of these cases.

carriers "pending further prder of this court." See Jurisdictional
Statement 30a. It may be that the danger of conflicting results
where the Commission has not been made a party would warrant
a court staying its hand, but that is not a problem here.

