OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Per Curiam

412 U. S.

DOUGLAS v. BUDER, JUDGE.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF MISSOURI

No. 72-6198. Decided June 4, 1973
Petitioner, who had been given a suspended sentence for manslaughter and placed on probation for four years, with a condition
that tall arrests for any reason must be reported without delay,"
was thereafter involved in an automobile accident in Arkansas,
for which he received a traffic citation. Eleven days'later, he
mentioned the citation to his probation officer, who notified respondent judge. At a hearing, the prosecutor and the probation
officer" recommended continued probation but respondent, stating
that the failure to report the accident and the citation was not
in "strict' compliance with the terms of the probation," revoked
probation and sentenced petitioner to jail on the original counts.
The Missouri Supreme Court denied a writ of prohibition. Held:
The issuande of" the traffic citation was not an 'arrest under
either Missouri or Arkansas law, and the finding that petitioner
had violated his probation conditions was so totally devoid of
evidentiary support as to violate due process. Even were it clear
that respondent held Missouri law to be that a traffic citation is
the equivalent of an arrest, suchan unforeseeable holding, retroactively applied, would also deprive petitioner of due process.
Certiorari granted; 485 S. W. 2d 609, reversed and remanded.
PER CURfAM.

In November 1971, petitioner, a 50-year-old truck
driver with no prior offenses, pleaded guilty to two
counts of manslaughter and was given a suspended sentence and placed on probation for a period of four years.
by the respondent Missouri Circuit Court Judge. One
of the conditions of probation was that "[a] 11 arrests for
any reason must be reported without delay to [petitioner's] probation ind parole officer." In January 1972,
petitioner was involved in a seven-vehicle chain-reaction
accident on an Arkahsas highway. The driver of the

DOUGLAS v. BUDER
430

Per Curiaw

"first vehicle was issued a traffic citation for failure to
yield the right of way, and petitioner, along with four
other drivers involved in the accident, was issued a citation for driving t9o fast for existing conditions. At the
next scheduled meeting with his probation officer, 11 days
after the accident, petitioner mentioned the accident
and the receipt of the traffic citation. " On the same day,
the probation officer reported this information. to respondent who thereupon scheduled a hearing for the
purpose of determining(whether petitioner's probation
should be revoked. At the hearing, both the probation
officer and the prosecutor took the position that petitioner had not violated aujy of the conditions of his
probation and both 'redommended that probation be
continued. Nevertheless, respondent, staiing that petitioner's failure to report the accident and the traffic
citation "displayed poor attitude toward his probation"
and was not in "strict compliance with the terms of the
probation," revoked probation and sentenced petitioner
to concurrent terms of two years on each of the original
two counts. Petitioner sought a writ of prohibition'in
the Missouri Supreme Court, but that court, in. a 4-3
decision, concluded that respondent had not abused -his
discreti6n and therefore denied r6lief.
The apparen~t premise upon which respondent proceeded in revoking petitioner's probation was that petitioner had failed promptly to report an "arrest." But
the issuanc6 of the traffic citation was not an "arrest"
under either Missouri or Arkansas law. .By statute,
Missouri defines an "arrest" as "an actual restraint of
the person of the defendant, or ... submission to the
custody of the officer, under authority of a, warrarit or
otherwise." Mo. *Rev. Stat. ยง 544.180 (1953). 'Similarly, Arkansas defines an "arrest" as the "placing
...the person of the defendant in restraint, or... subu ting to the custody of the person making the arrest."

OCTOBER. TERM, 1972

Per Curiam

412 U. S.

Ark. Stat. Ann. ยง 43-412 (1947). The record before us
discloses absolutely no evidence that petitioner was subjected to an. "actual restraint" or taken into "custody"
at the scene of the accident or elsewhere. Consequently,
we conclude that the finding that petitioner had violated the conditions of his probation by failing to report
"all arrests. . . without delay" was so totally devoid
of evidentiary support as to be invalid under the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Thompson v. Louisville, 362 t. S. 199 (1960); Garner v. Louisiana, 368 U. S. 157' (1961).
The State argues, however, that the revocation of
petitioner's probation should be viewed as a determination by respondent that, for purposes of Missouri law,
a traffic citation is the equivalent of-an arrest even though
not accompanied by an actual restraint. But neither
respondent nor the Missouri Supreme Court specifically
made such a finding and no prior Missouri decisiohal
law is cited to support the contention that a traffic
citation has ever before been treated as the equivalent
of an arrest. Moreover, even if it were clear that respondent had declared Missouri law to be that a traffic
citation is the equivalent of an arrest, we would have
to conclude that under the rationale of Bouie v. City
of Columbia, 378 U. 8. 347 (1964), the unforeseeable
application of that interpretation in the case-before us
deprived petitioner of due process. We held in Bouie
that "[wihen . . . [an] unforeseeable state-court construction of a criminal statute is applied retroactively
to subject a person to criminal liability for past conduct, the effect is 'to deprive him of due process of law
in the sense of fair warning that his contemplated conduct constitutes a crime." Id., at 354-355: And that
same principle of due process is fully applicable in the
context of the case before us.

DOUGLAS v. BUDER
430

433

15er Curiam

The motion for leave to proceed in forma,pauperis and
the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted. The
judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
Missouri Suprem e Court for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
THE CrniF JusTice and -MR. JusTcE REHNQUIST
concur in the result.

MR. JusticE BjACKMUN took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

