WEINBERGER v. BENTEX PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 645

Syllabus

WEINBERGER, SECRETARY OF, HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE, ET AL. v. BENTEX
PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 72-555. Argued April 17, 1973--Decided June 18, 1973
Respondent drug marketers ified suit for a declaratory judgment
.thattheir drugs containing pentylenetetrazol are generally recognized as safe and effectiv6 and thus are not "new drugs" within
the meaning of § 20; (p) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act of 1938, as amended. They also sought exemption under
§ 107 (c)(4), the grandfather clause, of the 1962 amendments
to the Act. The Food 'and 'Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner, based on NAS-NRC pantl reports, concluded that
there was a lack of substantial evidence that the drugs were effective for their intended uses and gave notice of his intention to
initiate proceedings to withdraw approval of the new drug applications (NDA.'s). In light of FDA's position that withdrawal
of approval of an NDA would operate to remove marketing
'approval for all drugs of similar composition, kown as "me-too"
drugs, whether or not expressly coiered by an effective NDA,
the Commissioner invited holders of NDA's for drugs containing
pentylenetetrazol "and any interested person who might be adversely affected -by their removal from the market" to submit
"adequate and well-controlled studies" to establish the effectiveness
of the drugs. Only one NDA holder submitted further evidence,
which the Commissioner held did not satisfy the statutory standard.
He gave notice of intent to issue an order withdrawing approval
of the NDA's, and only one NDA holder requested a hearing but
filed no supporting data. The Commissioner issued,orders withdrawing approval of he NDA's and no appeal was taken.. Respondents here all market "me-too" :rugs, none of which was.
expressly covered by an effective NDA. The District Court held
that FDA should resolve the "new drug" and "grandfather"
issues in an administrative proceeding. The Court of Appeals
reversed and remanded with directions to the District Court t6
determine whether the challenged drugs may lawfully be marketed
without approved NDA's, holding that FDA has no juris-

. OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

412 U. S.

diction, primary or concurrent, to decide what is a "new drug"
for which an NDA is required. Held: The District Cwrt's referral of the "new drug" and "grandfather" issues to FDA was
proper. Pp. 649-654.
(a) While an FDA order denying an NDA and withdrawing
one is reviewable by the Court of Appeals under § 505 (h), an
order declaring a "new drug" status under § 201 (p) is reviewable
under the Administrative Procedure Act by the District Court.

Pp. 65-652.
(b) The reach of scientific inquiry under both §505 (d) and

§ 201 (p) is the same, Weinberger v. Hynson, Westcott & Dunning, Inc., ante, p. 609, -and it is implicit in the regulatory scheme
that FDA has jurisdiction to decide with administrative finality,
subject to judicial review,' the "new drug" status of individual
drugs or classes of drugs. Pp. 652-653.
(c) The "new drug" and "grandfather" issues are peculiarly
suited to initial determination by- FDA with its specialized
competence and expertise. Pp, 653-654. 163 F. 2d 363, reversed.
DouGr,
J.; delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all
Members joined, except. BRENw,&, T., who tQok no part in the consideration or decision of the case, and ST-emr, J.,-wbo took no part
in the decision of the case.
-

Deputy Solicitor Generql Friedman a.gued the cause

for petitioners.

On the briefs were Solicitor. General

Griswold, Asistant :Attorne' General Kauper, Deputy
Solicitor General Wallace,-Andrew L. Frey, Howard B.
Shapiro, George Edelstein, and Peter Barton Hutt.
George F. Townes argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Sol E. Abrams and C. Ben
Bowen.*
*Bruce J. Terri4, Joseph One, and Peter H. Schuck filed a brief
for American, Public Health Assn et al. as amici curiae urging
reversal.
Briefs of amid curiae urging affirmance were filed by Lloyd N.
Cutler, Daniel Marcus, and William T. Lake for Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Assn., and by Thomas D. Finney, Jr., Thomas Richard
Spradli, and Daniel F. O'Keefe, Jr, for the Proprietary Assn.

WEINBERGER v. BENTEX PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 647
645

Opinion of the Court

Ai. JusTiCE DouauAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case Bentex and some 20 other firms that market drugs containing pentylenetetrazol filed this suit for
a declaratory judgment that their drugs containing
pentylenetetrazol are generally recognized as safe and
effective, and thus not "new drugs" within the meaning of
§201 (p) (1) of the Federal Food, Drug, aid Cosmetic
Act of 1938, as amended, 76 Stat. 781, 21 U. S. C. § 321
(p) (1). They also sought exemption from the new effectiveness requirements by reason of § 107 (c) (4) of the
1962 amendments to the Act, kndwn as the "grandfather" clause.
As part of the Food afid Drug Administration's (FDA's)
Drug Efficacy Study Implementation program, three
separate National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council (NAS-NRC). panels reviewed, the evidence concerning these drugs, and each concluded that
the drug was "ineffective" for the indicated use. The
Commissioner concluded there was a lack of substantial
evidence that these drugs were effective for their intended
uses and gave notice of his intention to initiate proceedings to withdraw approval of the new drug applications (NDA's). FDA hid taken the position that
withdrawal of approval of an NDA would operate to
remove marketing approval for all drugs of siniila composition, known as. "me-too" drugs, whether or not they
wdre expressly covered by an effective NDA. 1 Accord1
Volume 37 Fed. Reg. 23187, adding § 130.40 to 21 CFR, defines
"identical, related, or similar drug" as used in this Act to include
"other brands, potencies, dosage forms, salts, and esters of the .same
drug moiety as well as of any drug moiety related in chemical structure or known pharmacological properties." It also provides all
persons with an interest in such drugs an opportunity for hearing
on any proposed withdrawal of NDA approval for the basic drug.
A district court order. directing FDA to apply the NAS-NRC evaluation to all "me-too" drugs is reproduced in 37 Fed. Reg. 26623-26624.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

ingly, the notice invited the holders of the NDA's for
drugs containing pentylenetetrazol, "and any interested person who might be adversely affected by
their removal from the market," to submit "adequate and well-controlled studies" to establish the
effectiveness of the drugs. See § 505 (d), 21 U. S. C.
'§355 (d). Only one NDA holder submitted further evidence, which the Commissioner held did not
satisfy the statutory standard. He thereupon gave notice of intent to issue an order withdrawing approval of
the NDA's under § 505 (e), 21 U. S. C. § 355 (e). Again,
all those who might be adversely affected by withdrawal
of the NDA's were given the opportunity to participate.
Only one NDA holder requested a hearing but filed no
data to support it. The Commissioner issued orders
withdrawing approval'of the three NDA's (35 Fed. Reg.
14412); "no appeal was taken. This suit in the District
Court followed:. It appears that all of the parties to
this suit -market'"-e-too" drugs, none of which was expressly covered by an effective NDA.
The District Court held that although it could determine whether the drugs were "new" or "grandfathered"
drugs, its jurisdiction was concurrent with that of FDA
and that. FDA should resolve the "new drug" issue in an
administrative proceeding. It entered an injunction to
preserve the status quo and ruled that if FDA should
decline to hold a hearing it would determine the issue.
The Court of Appeals rever~ed and remanded with directions that the District Court determine whether the
challenged drugs may lawfully be marketed without:
approved NDA's.i 463 F. 2d 363. It held that FDA
has no 'jurisdiction, either primary or concurrent, to
decide .inan administrative proceeding what is a
"new drug" for which an NDA is required. In its view
the 1962 Act established two forums for the regulation
of drugs: an administrative one for premaiketing clear-

WEINBERGER v. BENTEX PHARMACEUTICAIS, INC. 649
645

Opinion of the Court

ances for "new drugs" or withdrawal of previously approved NDA's, with the right of appeal; and, second, a
judicial one for enforcement of the requirement that
-"new drugs" be cleared as safe and effective before marketfng by providing the Government with judicial remedies of seizure, injunction, and criminal pr6secution
available solely in the District Court. Id., at 371-372.
We reverse the Court of Appeals.
FDA, as a result of an NAS-NRC" study and after due
notice, faced up to the problem of proposing withdrawal
of drugs found to be lacking in substantial evidence of
effectiveness. One method would be tb have 1,000 withdrawal hearings--perhaps as many as 3,500, each one
lasting probably fof weeks. The cost in time and budget
would be enormous. Accordingly, FDA issued regulations, alreadyi discussed in Weinberger v. Hynson , West.cot & Dunning,Inc., ante, p..609, defining the "scientific
principles which characterize an, adeqhuate and wellcontrolled clinical investigation,"'' 3 which elaborates on
the statutory "substantial evidence" test. And, as we
* held ,in Hyison, no basis for a hearing under, these regulatioiis would be laid unless a party seeking a hearing
proffered at least 'some evidence of that nature ana
,quality.
. By May 1972, 102 :nal'orders effecting withdrawal of
approval for 452 NDA's had been issued; and"they re-'
sulted in the removal from the market of an 'additional
1,473 "md-tob" drugsff FDA was still troubled because
under the 1962 Act-im census of the marketplace was
authorized. That is why Congress enacted the Drug
235 Fed.

Rlg. 3073 and 7250.
See the Appendix in Hynson, ante, p 634.
'4 Hearings on the Present Status of Competition in the Pharmaceutical Industry' before the Subcommittee on Mon6poly of the
Senate Select Committee on Small Business, 92d Cong., 2d Ses.,
3

* pt. 22, p..8525.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972"
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

Listing Act of 1972, 86 Stat. 559, 21 U. S. C. §§ 331 (p),
335 (e), 360 (e), (f), (c), (d) (1970 ed., Supp. II). That
Act requires manufacturers to submit to FDA a list of all
drugs they market, including data showing their composition, labeling, and advrtising. The Senate Report
stated:
"The effective enforcement of the drug provisions
of the Act requires the ready availability of a current
inventory of all marketed drugs. The Secretary is
just completing a thorough review of the effectiveness
of drugs marketed 'pursuant to new drug applications
during the period 1938-1962, as required by the
Drug Amendments of 1962. Application of the results of this important review to related drugs would
be frustrated if a list of all marketed .drugs were
not easily obtained."
FDA also realized thaf it is impossible to apply the
1962 amendments to over-the-counter (OTC) drugs on a
case-by-case basis.- There are between 100,000 and
500,000 of these products, few of which were previously
approved by FDIA. 'In May 1972 FDA adopted a procedure for determining whether particular OTC products,
not covered by NDA's are safe products, not ineffective,
and not.misbranded. 37 Fed. Reg. 9464. The procedure
involves the establishment of independent expert panels
for different categories of OTC drugs (e. g., antacids,
laxatives, analgesics) which would review all available
data and prepare -monographs prescribing drug composition, labeling, and manufacturing controls.. OTC's conforming to the monograph will not be considered either
misbranded or a "new" drug" requiring an. NDA. The
regulation provides for a hearing before the expert panel,
eomments and rebuttal comments on the monograph, and
!Filings are due in June 1973. 37 Fed. Reg. 26432,
6S. Rep. No. 92-924, p. 2.

WEINBERGER v. BENTEX PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 651
645

Opinion of the Court

finally a hearing before the Commissioner and judicial
review. Id., at 9475.
This case, like the cross-petition in the Hynson case
.(No. 72-414) raises the question whether FDA has authority to decide in an administrative hearing-whether'a
drug satisfies the new effectiveness requirements of the
Act. As noted, the Commissioner ordered that three
NDA's for the drugs in question be withdrawn. Review
of the order was not sought in the Court of Appeals as
provided in § 505 (h), 21 U.S. C. § 355 (h). Rather,-the
aggrieved manufacturersof "ime-too" drugs filed suit in
the District Court, With the results we have already detailed. The narrow question is whether the FDA may
decide whether a drug is a "new drug" on referral from a
district court..
As already noted, an order denying.an NDA or withdrawing one is reviewable by the Court of Appeals,
§ 505'(h); and we see no reason why Congress could
not make one method of-review the exclusive one. Certainly an order that does-not deny or withdraw an NDA
is reviewable under the Administrative Procedure Act, if
it declares a "new drug" status. See Hynson,. supra,
at 627. In bolstering that conclusion we should note in
passing that Abbott Laborat'ries v. Gardner, 387 U. S.
136, 144, said that the provisions staed in this Act for
judicial review do not manifest "a congressional purpose to eliminate judicial review of other kinds of agency
action." While § 505 (h) would appear to be the exclusive m.lethod of obtaining judicial review of FDA's order
withdrawing an 'NDA. covering the instant drugs, the
Government apparently did iot oppose the District
Court's taking jurisdiction, .or appeal from its action, and
presents no objection to the exercise by the courts of
jurisdiction in this case. It does,'hgwever, strenuously
oppose the conclusions reached by the Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

That court, in holding that FDA has no jurisdiction
to determine the "new drug" status of a drug, stated
that the question of "new drug" status is never presented when an application of a manufacturer for approval is filed. Parties, of course, cannot confer jurisdiction' only Congress can do so. The line sought to
be drawn by the Court of Appeals is FDA action on
NDA's pursuant to § 505 (d) and § 505 (e), on the onehand, and the questiorl of "new drug" determination on
the other. We can discern no such jurisdictional line
under the Act. The FDA, as already stated, may.
deny an NDA where there is a lack of "substantial
evidence" of the drug's effectiveness, based, as we have
outlined, on clinical, investigation by experts. But 'the
"new drug" .definition under § 201 (p) encompasses a
"drug "not*generally recognized, among experts qualified
by. scientific training and experience to evaluate the
-safety and effedtiveness of drugs, as safe and effective
for use." Whether a particular drug is a "new drug,"
depends in part on the expert knowledge and, experience of scientists based on controlled clinical experimentation and backed by substantial support in
scientific literature. One function is not peculiar to
jiidicial expertise, the other to administrative expertise.
The'two types of cases overlap and strongly suggest that
Conigress-desired that the administrative agency make
both kinds of determination. Even where no such administrative determination has been made and the issue
arises in a district court in enforcement proceedings, it
would be commonplace for the court to await an appro-"
priate administrative declaration before it acted.' See
Myers v. BethIeher Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41,
50-51; FPC v. Louisiana'Power& Light Co., 406 U. S.
621, 647. 'It may; of course, be true that in -some cases
gerieral recognition that a drug is efficacious might be
made ivithout th'e kind of scientific support necessary ,to

WEINBERGER v. BENTEX PHARMACEUTICAIS, INC. 653
645

Opinion of the Court

obtaifi approval of an NDA. But, as we indisate in Hynson, supra, at 631, the reach of scientific inquiry under
both § 505 (d) and § 201 (p) is precisely the same.
We think that it is implicit in the regulatory scheme,
not spelled out in haec' verba, that FDA has jurisdiction to decide with administrative finality, subject
to the types of judicial review provided, the "new drug"
status of individual drugs or classes of drugs. The deluge
of litigation that would follow if "me-too" drugs and
OTC drugs had to receive de novo hearings in the courts
would inure to the interests of manufacturers and merchants ihdrugs, but not to the interests of the public
that Congress was anxious "toprotect by the 1962 amendments, 'as well as OTC drugs and drugs covered by the
1972 Act. We are told that FDA is incapable of handling a caseload of more than perhaps 10 or 15 de novo
judicial. proceedings in a year. Clearly, if FDA were
required to litigate, on a case-by-case. basis, the "new
drug" status of each drug now marketed, the regulatory
scheme of the Act would be severely undermined, if not
totially destroyed. 'Moreover, a case-by-case approach is
inherently unfair because it requires compliance by one
manufacturer while his competitors marketing similar
-drugs remain free to violate the.Act. In 'acase much

more clouded with doubts than this one, we held that we
would not "in the absence of compelling evidence that
such was Congress' intention . . .prohibit administra-

tive action imperative for the achievement of an agency's
ultimate purposes." Permian Basin Area Rate Cases,
390 U. S. 747, 780. And see Ricci v. Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, 409 U. S.289, 304-306.
. We conclude that the District Court's referral of the
"new drug" and the "grandfather" issues to FDA was
appropriate, as these are the kinds of issues peculiarly
,suited to initial determination by the FDA. As the District Court said: "Evaluation of conflicting reports as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412TU S.

the reputation of drugs among expierts in the field is not
,a matter well left to a court without chemical or medical
background.". The determination whether a drug
is generally recognized as safe and effective within
the meaning . of &201 (p).(1). necessarily implicates
complex chemical and pharmacological considerations.
Threshold questions within' the' peculiar expertise of'
an administrathie agency are appropriately routed tothe agency, while the court stays its hand. As we
stated in Far Eastern "Conferencev. United States, 342
U. S.-570, 574-575: "[I]n cases raising issues df fact
not within the conventional experience of judges or cases
requiring the exercise of administrative discretion, agencies created by Congress for regulating'the subject matter should not be passed over. This is so even though
the facts after they have been appraised by specialized
competence serve as a premise for legal consequences to'
be judicially defined. Uniformity and consistency ii the
regulation of business entrusted to a particular agency
are secureal, and the -limited fuficfions of review by. the
judiciary are 'more rationally exercised, by preliminary
resort for ascertaining.and interpreting the circumstances
underlying legal issues to agencies that are better
equipped than courts by specialization, by insight gained
through expeirience, and by more flexible procedure."
And ee Port of Boston Marine Terminal Assn. v.
RedericiktiebolagetTransatantic,400 U. S. 62, 68; Ricci
v. Chicago Mercaiztile Exch4nge, supra, at 304-306.
Reversed.
MR.JUsTIcE BfsE.Nw took no part in the consideration or decision of this case. MR. JusTice. STEwART took
no part in ihe decision of this case.

