BARNES v. UNITED STATES
Syllabus

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 72-5443.

Argued March 20, 1973--Decided June 18, 1973

Petitioner was convicted of possessing United States Treasury checks
stolen from the mails, knowing them to be stolen; forging; and
uttering the checks, knowing the endorsements to be forged.' The
District Court instructed the jury that "[p]ossession of recently
* stolen property, if not satisfactorily explained, is ordinarily a
circumstance from which you may reasonably draw the inference
and find. in the light of the surrounding circumstances shown by
the evidence in the case, that the person in possession knew the
property had been stolen." The Court of Appeals affirmed, finding no lack of "rational connection" between unexplained possession of recently stolen property and knowledge that the property
was stolen. Held: The instruction comports with due process.
Pp. 841-847.
(a) If a statutory inference submitted to the jury as sufficient
to support conviction satisfies the reasonable-doubt standard
i. e., the evidence necessary to inxoke the inference is sufficient
for a rational juror to find the inferred fact beyond a reasonable
doubt) as well as the more-likely-than-not standard, then it clearly
accords with due process. Pp. 841-843.
(b) Here, where the evidence established that petitioner possessed recently stolen Treasury checks payable to persons he did
not know and if provided no plausible explanation for such possession consistent with innocence, the traditional common-law
inference satisfies the reasonable-doubt standard, the most stringent
standard applied by the Court in judging permissive criminal law
inferences; and, therefore, comports with due process. Pp. 843-846.
,(c) Although the introduption of any eyidence, direct or cireumstantial, tending to implicatethe defendant in the alleged
crime increases the pressure on, him to testify, the mere massing
of evidence against him cannot be regarded as a violation of his
-privilege against self-incrimination. Yee Ham v. United States,
268 U. S. 178, 185. Pp. 846-.847.
(d) In light of its legislative history and consistent judicial
construction, 18 U. S. C. §'1708 requires only knowledge that the

838

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

checks were stolen, and not knowledge that they were stolen from
the mails. P. 847.
466 F. 2d 1361, affirmed.
POWELL,

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,

C. J., and STEwa,

WHrE, BLAcxMUN,

and REHNQUIST, JJ.,

joined. DouGLis, J., filed-a dissenting opinion, post, p. 848. BRFwNAN, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL, J., joined,
post, p.852.
Malcolm H. Mackey, by appointment of the Court,
411 U. S_ 946, argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Deputy Solicitor General Friedman argued the cause
for the United States. With him on the brief were
Solicitor General Griswold, Assistant Attorney General
Petersen,Mark L. Evans, and Sidney M. Glazer.
MR.-4Jus=ICE PowSL, delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner Barnes was convicted in United States District Court on two counts of possessing United States
Treasury checks stolen from the mails, knowing them
to be stolen, two counts of forging the checks, and two
counts of uttering the checks, knowing the endorsements
to be forged. The trial court instructed the jury that
ordinarily it would be justified in inferring from unexplained possession of recently stolen mail that the defendant possessed the mail with knowledge tha, it was
stolen. We granted certiorari to consider whether this
instruction comports with due process. 409 U. S. 1037
(1972).
The evidence at petitioner's trial established that on
June 2, 1971, he opened a'checking account using the
pseudonym "Clarence Smith." On July 1, and July 3,
1971, the United States Disbursing Office at San Francisco mailed four Government checks in the amounts of

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

Opinion of the Court

$269.02, $154.70, $184, and $268.80 to Nettie Lewis,
Albert Young, Arthur Salazar, and Mary Hernandez,
respectively. On July 8, 1971, petitioner deposited these
four checks into the "Smith" account. Each check bore
the apparent endorsement of the payee and a second
endorsement by "Clarence Smith."
At petitioner's trial the four payees testified that they
had never received, endorsed, or authorized endorsement
of the ctiecks. A Government handwriting expert testified that petitioner had made the "Clarence Smith" endorsement on all four checks and that he hdd signed the
payees' names on the Lewis and Hernandez .checks.'
Although petitioner did not take the stand, a postal
inspector testified to certain statements made by petitioner at a post-arrest interview. Petitioner explained to
the inspector that he received the checks in question
from people who sold furniture for him door to door and
that the checks had been signed in the payees' names
when he received them. Petitioner further stated that
he could not name or identify any of the salespeople.
Nor could he substantiate the existence of any furniture
orders because the salespeople allegedly wrote their orders
on scratch paper that had not been retained. Petitioner
admitted that he executed the Clarence Smith endorsements and deposited the checks but denied making the
payees' endorsements.2
The District Court instructed the jury that "[p]ossession of recently stolen property, if not satisfactorily explained, is ordinarily a circumstance from which you
may reasonably draw the inference and'find, in the light
1

The witness' findings with respect to the Young and Salazar
signatures were inconclusive.
2This explanation" of petitioner's possession of the checks, presented through the postal inspector's testimony, was adopted by petitioner's counsel, in argument to the jury. Tr. 107-108.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

of the surrounding circumstances shown by the evidence
in the case, that the-person in possession knew the property had been stolen." I

The jury brought in guilty verdicts on all six counts,
and the District Court sentenced petitioner to concurrent three-year prison terms.
3

The Court of Appeals for

The full instruction on the inference arising from possession 'of
stolen property stated:
"Possession of recently stolen property, if not satisfactorily explained, is ordinarily a circumstance from which you may reasonably
draw the inference and find, in the light of the surrounding circumstances shown by the evidence in the case, that the person in possession knew the property had been,stblen.
"However, you are never required to make this inference. It is
the exclusive province of the jury to determine whether the facts
and -circumstances shown by the evidence in this case warrant any
inference which the law permits the jury to draw from the possession
of recently stoien property.
"The term 'recently' is a relative term, and-has no fixed meaning.
Whether property may be considered as recently stolen dep6nds
upon the nature of the property, and.all the facts and circumstances
shown by the evidence in the case. The longer the period of time
since the theft the more doubtful becomes the inference which may
reasonably be-drawn from: unexplained possession.
"If you should find'beyond a reasonable doubt from thfe evidence
in "the case that the mail described in the indictment was stolen,
and that while recently stolen the contents of said mail here, the
the possession of the
four United States Treasury checks, were in,
defendant you would ordinarily be justified'iu drawing from those
facts the infeience that the contents were possessed by the accused
with knowledge that it was stolen property, unless such possession
is explained by facts and circumstances in this case which are in'some
way consistent with the defendant's innocence.
"In considering whether possession of recently stolen property has
been satisfactorily explained, you :,re reminded that in the exercise
of constitutional rights the accused reed not take the witness stand
and testify.
"Possession may be satisfactorily explained through other circumstances, other evidence, independent of any testimony of the accused." Tr. 123-124.

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

41

Opinion of the Court

the Ninth Circuit affirmed, finding no lack of "rational
connection" between unexplained possession of recently
stolen property and knowledge that-the property was
stolen. 466 F. 2d 1361 (1972). Because petitioner received identical concurrent sentences on all six counts,
the court declined to consider his challenges to conviction
on the forgery and uttering counts. We affirm.
I.

We begin our consideration of the challenged jury instruction with a review of four recent decisions which
have considered the validity under the Due Process
Clause of criminal law presumptions and inferences.
Turner v. United States,,396 U. S. 398 (1970); Leary v.
United States, 395 U. S. 6 (1969); United States v.
Romano, 382 U. S,136 (1965) ; United States v. Gainey,.
380 U. S. 63 (1965).
In United States v. Gainey, supra,the Court sustained
the constitutionality of an instruction tracking a statute
which authorized the jury to infer from defendant's
unexplained presence at an illegal still that he was carrying on "the business of a distiller or rectifier without
having given bond -as required by law." Relying on the
holding of Tot v. United States, 319 U. S. 463, 467 (1943),
that there must be a "rational connection between the fact
proved and the ultimate fact presumed," the Court upheld
the inference on the basis of the comprehensive nature of
the "carrying on" offense and the common knowledge that
illegal stills are secluded, secret operations. The following Term the Court determined, however, that presence,
at an illegal still could not support the-inference that the
defendant was in possegsion, custody, or control of the
sfill, a narrower offense." "Presence is relevant and
admissibk- evidence- in a trial on a possession charge;
but absent 'some showing of the defendant's function at
the .still, its connection'with p6ssession is too tenuous to

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

permit a reasonable inference of guilt--'the inference of
the one from proof of the other is arbitrary ... .' Tot
v. United States, 319 U. S. 463, 467." United States v.
Romano, supra, at 141.
Three and one-half years after Romano, the Court in
Leary v. United States, supra, considered a challenge to a
statutory inference that possession of marihuana, unless
satisfactorily explained, was sufficient to prove that the
defendant knew that the marihuana had been illegally imported into the United States. The Court concluded that
in view of the significant possibility that any given marihuana was domestically grown and the improbability
that a marihuana user would know whether his marihuana was of domestic or imported origin, the inference
did not meet the standards set by Tot, Gainey, and
Romano. Referring to these three cases, the Leary
Court stated that an inference is "'irrational' or 'arbitrary,' and hence unconstitutional, unless it can at least
be skid with substantial assurance thai the. presumed fact
is more likely, than not to flow from the'proved fact on
which it is made to depend." 395 U. S., at 36. In a footnote the Court stated that since the challenged inference
failed to satisfy the more-likely-than-not standard, it
did not have to "reach the question whether a criminal
presumption which passes muster when so judged must
also satisfy the criminal 'reasonable doubt' standard if
proof of the crime charged or an essential element thereof
depends upon its use." •Id., at 36 n. 64.
Finally, in Turner v. -UnitedStates, supra, decided the
year following Leary, the Court considered the constitutionality of instructing the jury that it may infer from
possession of heroin and cocaine that the-defendant knew
these drugs had been illegally imported The Court
'The Turner Court also considered the validity, of inferring that
a defendant knowingly purchased, sold, dispensed, or distributed a

BARNES v. UNITE)

837

STATES

Opinion of the Court

noted that Learj, reserved the question of whether the
more-likely-than-not or the reasonable-doubt standard
controlled in criminal cases, but it likewise found fi6 need
to resolve that question. It held that the inference with
regard to heroin was valid judged by either standard.
396 U. S., at 416. With regard to cocaine, the inference
failed to satisfy even the more-likely-than-not standard.
Id., at 419.
The teaching of the foregoing cases is not altogether
clear. To the extent that the "rational' connection,"
"more likely than not," and "reasonable doubt" standards bear ambiguous relationships to one another, the
ambiguity is traceable in large part to variations in language and focus rather than to differences of substance.
What has been established by the cases, however, is at
least this: that if a statutory inference submitted to the
jury as sufficient to support conviction satisfies the reasonable-doubt standard (that is, the evidence necessary
to invoke the inference is sufficient for a rational juror
to find the inferred fact beyond a reasonable doubt) as
well. as the more-likely-than-not standard, then it clearly
accords with due process.
In the present case we deal with a traditional commonlaw inference deeply rooted in our law. For centuries
courts have instructed juries that an infprence of guilty
knowledge may be drawn from the fact of unexplained
possession of stolen goods. James Thayer, writing in his
Preliminary Treatise on Evidence (1898), cited this inference as the descendant 'of a presumption "running
narcotic drug not in or from the original package bearing tax stamps
from the fact that the drugs had no tax stamps when found in the
defendant's possession. 26 U. S. C. § 4704 (a) (1964 ed.). The
Court upheld the inference that a defendant possessing unstamped
heroin knowingly purchased it in violation of the statute, but
struck down the inference with regard to cocaine. 396 U. S., 398,
419-424.

844 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

through a dozen centuries." I Id., at 327. Early American cases consistently upheld instructions permitting conviction upon such an inference," and the courts of appeals
on numerous occasions have approved instructions essentially identical to the instruction given in this case.'

This longstainding and consistent judicial approval of
the instruction, reflecting accumulated common experience, provides strong indication that the instruction comports with due process.

This impressive historical basis, however, is not in itself
sufficient to establish the instruction's constitutionality.
Common-law inferences, like their statutory counterparts, must satisfy due process standards in light of
5

Thayer also- described the historical developmint oi the
presumption: '
"[T]he laws bf Ine [King of Wessex, A. D. 688-725] provide
that, 'if stolen property be attached with a chapman, and he have
not brought it before good witnesses, let himlprove . . . that he
was neithei privy (to the theft) nor thief; or pay as wite (fine)
xxxvi shillings.' To be found thus in the possession of stolen goods.
was a serious thing; if they were recently stolen, then was one
'taken with the mainour,---a state of things that formerly might
involve immediate punishment, without a trial; and, later, a trial
without a formal accusation; and, later still, a presumption of guilt
which, in the absence of contrary evidence, justified a verdict, and
at the present time is vanishing away into the mere judicial recognition of a permissible inference

....

"

Id., at 328.

(Citations

omitted.)
8
See, e. g., Wilson v.United States, 162 U. S.613 (1896); Commonwealth v. Millard, 1 Mass. 6 (1804); Knickerbocker "v.
People,
.43 N. Y. 177 (1870); State v. Raymond, 46 Conn. 345 (1878),- Cook
v. tate, 84 Tenn. 461 (1886).
7E. g., United States v. Russo, 413 F. 2d 432 (CA2 1969); United
States v. Smith, 446 F. 2d 200 (CA4 1971); United States v.
Winbush, 428 F. 2d 357 (CA6), cert. denied, 400 U. S. 918
(1970); United States v. Hood, 422 F. 2d 737 (CA7), cert. denied,
400 U. S., 820 (1970); United States v. Diella, 354 F. 2d 584
(CA7 i965).

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

845

Opinion of the Court

present-day experience. In the present case the challenged instruction only permitted the inference of guilt
from finexplained possession of recently stolen property.'
The evidence established that petitioner possessed. recently stolen Treasury checks payable to persons he did
not know, and it provided no plausible explanation for
such possession consistent with innocence. On the basis
of this evidence alone common sense and experience tell
us that petitioner must have known or been aware of the
high probability that the checks were stolen. Cf. Turner
v. United States, 396 U. S., at .417; 10 Leary v.
United States, 395 U. S., at 46. Such evidence
was clearly sufficient to enable the jury to find beyond
a reasonable doubt that petitioner knew the checks were
8The reasoning of the statutory-inference cases is applicable to
analysis of common-law inferences. Cf. United States v. Gainey,
380 U. S.63, 70 (1965); Rules of Evidence for United States Courts
and Magistrates (proposed Nov. 20, 1972), Rule 303 (a), 56
F. R. D. 212. Common-law inferences, however, present fewer
constitutional problems. Such inferences are invoked only in the
discretion of the trial judge. While statites creating criminal law
inferences may be interpreted also to preserve the trial court's traditional discretion in determining whether there is sufficient evidence
to go to the jury and in chargipg the jury, Turner v. United States,
396 U. S.398, 406 n. 6 (1970) ; "UnitedStates v. Gainey, supra, at 6870, such discretion is inh6rent in the use of common-law inferences.
9 Of course, the mere fact that there is some evidence tending to
explain a defendant's possession consistent with innocence does not.
bar instructing the jury on the' inference. Thp jury must weigh the
explanation to determine whether it is "satisfactory." Supra, at 840
n. 3. The jury is not bound to accept or believe any particular explanation any more than it is bound to ,ecept the correctness of the
inference. But the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendant did have knowledge that the property was stolen,
an essential element of the crim , remains on the Government.
10 " 'Common sense' .
tells us that those who traffic in heroin
will inevitably become aware that the product they deal in is smuggled, unless tbey practice a studied ignorance to which they are not
entitled."

846

'"CTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

stolen.

412 U.S.

Since the inference thus satisfies the reasonable-

doubt standard, the most stringent standard the Court has
applied in judging permissive criminal law inferences, we
conclude that it satisfies the requirements of due process."

II
Petitioner also argues that the permissiie inference

in question infringes his prlege against self-incrimination. The Court has twice rejected this argument,"
Turner v. United States, 396 U. S., at 417-418; Yee
Hem v. United States, 268 U. S. 178, 185 (1925), and
we-find no reasoni to re-examine the issue at length. The
trial court specifically instructed the jury that petitioner
had a constitutional right not to take the witness stand
and that possession could be satisfactorily explained by
"It -is true that the practical effect of instructing the jury on
the inference arising from unexplained possession of recently stolen
-property is to shift the burden of going forward with evidence to
the defendant. If the Government proves possession and nothing
more, this evidence remains unexplained unless the defendant introduces evidence, since ordinarily the Government's evidence will
not provide an explanation of his possession consistent with innocence. In Tot v. United States, 319 U. S. 463 (1943), the Court stated
that the buiden of going forward may not be freely shifted to the
defendant. See also Leary v. United States, 395 U.S.6,44-45 (1969).
Tot held, however, that where there is a "rational connection" between
the facts proved and tie4 fact presumed or inferred, it is jermissible to
shift the burden of going forward to the defendant. Where an inference satisfies the reasonable-doubt standard, as in the present
case, there will certainly be a rational connection betieen the fact
presumned or inferred (in this case, knowledge) and the facts the
Government must prove in order to shift the burden of going
forward (possession of recently stolen property).
We do not decide today whether a judge-formulated inference of
less antiquity or authority may properly be emphasized by a jury,
instruction.
2 Nor can the instruction "be fairly understood as a comment on
the petitioner's failure to testify." United States v. Gainey, 380
U. S., at 70-71.

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

Opinion ,of the Court

evidence independent of petitioner's testimony. Introduction of any evidence, direct or circumstantial, tending
to implicate the defendant in the alleged 'crime increases
the pressure on him to testify.' The mere massing of
evidence against a defendant cannot be regarded as a
violation of his privilege against self-incrimination. Yee
Hem"v. United btates,'supra,at 185.

Petitioner further challenges his conviction on the

ground that there was insufficient evidence that he knew
the checks were stolen from the maiis. He contends that
18 U. S. C. § 1708 13 requires knowledge not only that
the checks were stolen, but specifically that they were
stolen from the mails.

The legislative history of the

statute conclusively refutes this argurfient"

and the

courts of apleals that have addressed the issue have
uniformly interpreted the statute to require Qnly knowl-

edge that the jproperty was stolen.2d
3
1

"Whoever .

unlawfully has in his possession, any . . .

mail ... which has been so stolen . . . , knowing the same to have
been stolen ....
[shall be fined or imprisoned or both]."
14 Prior to 1939 the statute required proof of possession of articles
stolen from the mail "knowing the same to have beeh so stolen."
18 U. S. C. § 317 (1934 ed.) (emphasis added). See, e. g., Brandenburg v. United States, 78 F. 2d 811 (CA3 1935). In 1939 Congress
eliminated the word "so" preceding the word "stolen." H. R. Rep.
No. 734, 76th Cong., ist Sess., 1 (1939), explains the change:
"The reported bill amends the existinig law so that it will sustain'
a conviction for the Government to prove that the property was in
fact stolen from the mails and that the defendant knew th.; propefty
he received had been stolen. The committee feel that this should
be sufficient without requiring the Government to prove also that the
defendant knew the property received had been stolen from the
mails."
See also S. Rep. No. 864, 76th Cong., Ist Sess (1939).
15United States v. Hines, 256 F. 2d 561 (CA2 1958); Smith v.
United States, 343 F. 2d 539 (CA5), cert. denied, 382 IT. S. 861

848

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
DouGLAs, J., dissenting

412 U. S.

Since we find that the statute was correctly interpreted and that the trial court's instructions on the in-,
ference to be drawn from unexplained possession of stolen
property ivere fully consistent with petitioner's constitutional rrghts, it is unnecessary to consider petitioner's
challenges to his conviction on the forging and uttering
counts."-

Affirmed.
MR. Juvicn. DouGLAs,.disaenting.

Possession of stolen prqpvrty is traditionally under our
federal system a'local law questior. It becomes a federal concern in the present ease only if the "mail" was
implicated. Th6 indictment, insofar as the unlawful.
possession *counts are concerned, charges that "the items
had been "stolen from the mail." While there was evidence that these items had gone through the mail, petitioner did not take the stand, nor was there any evidence
that petitioner, knew that the items had been "stolen'
from the mail." As to the possession counts in the indictmerlt the District Court charged the jury that "three
essentidl elements" were required to prove the possession
offenses:
"FIRST: The Act or acts of unlawfully having in
one's possession the contents of a letter, namly,
the United States Treasury checks as alleged;
"SECOND: That the contents of the letter,
(1965); United States v. Gardnir, 454 F. 2d 534 (CA9), cert.
denied, 409 U. S.867 (1972); United States v. Schultz, 462 F. 2d
622 (CA9 1972).'
"' Although affirmance of petitioner's conviction on two of the
six.counts carrying identical concurrexit senteuces does not moot the
issues he raises pejtaining to the remaining counts, Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S. 784 (1969), w6 declineas a discretionary -matter to
reach these i sues. Cf. United States v. Romano, 382 U. S. 136, 138
(1965)...

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

DourGAs, J., dissenting

namely, the United States Treasury 'checks asalleged, were stolen from the mail; and
.
,"THIRD:, That the defendant James Edward
Barnes knew the contents had been stolen."
The District Court also charged the jury:
"If you should find beyond a reasonable doubt
from the evidence in the case that the n'ail described in the indictment was stolen, and that while
recently stolen the .contents of 'said mail here, the
four United States Treasury checks, were in the
possession of the defendant you would ordinarily
be justified in drawing from those facts the inference
that the contents were possessed by the. accused
with knowledge that it was stolen property, unless
such possession is explained by facts and circumstances in this case which are in some way consistent
with the defendant's."
As noted by the Court, the Act, which originally required proof. of possession of articles stolen from the
mail "knowing the same to have been so stolen," 18
U. S. C. § 317 (1934 ed.), was changed by eliminating
the word "so" before "stolen." H. R. Rep. No. 734, 76th
Cong., 1st Sess., 1. And the Act under which petitioner was charged and convicted does not require as an
ingredient of the offense that petitioner knew the property had been stolen from the mails.
That, however, is the beginning, not the end of the
problem. For without i nexus with the f'mails" there is
no federal- offense. How can we rationally say that
'"possession" of a stolen check allows a judge or jury
to conclude that the accused knew the check was stolen
from the mails? We held in Tot v. United States, 319
U. S. 463, that where a federal Act madl it unlawful
for any convicted person to possess a firearm that bad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
DOUGvmS,

J., dissenting

412 U. S.

been shipped in interstate or foreign commerce, it was,
unconstitutional to presume that a firearm possessed by
such person had been received in interstate or foreign
commerce.1 The decision was unanimous. The vice in
Tot was that the burden is on the government in a rininal case to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and
that use of the presumption shifts that burden.. We.
said: "[I] t is not permissible thus to shift the burden
by arbitrarily making one fact, which has no relevance
to guilt of the offense, the occasion of casting on the
defendant the obligation of exculpation." Id., at 469.
The use of presumptions and inferences to prove an
,element of the crime is indeed treacherous, for it allows
men to go to jail without any evidence on one essential
ingredient of the offense. -It thus implicates the integrity of the judicial system. We held in In re Winship,
397 U. S. 358, 364, that the Due Process Clause requires
"proof beyond a reasonable doubt of every fact necessary
to constitute the crime . .. ." Some evidence of wrongdoing is basic and essential in the judicial system, unless
the way of prosecutors be made easy by dispensing with
the requirement of presumption of innocence, which is,
the effect of what the Court dfoes today. In practical
effect the use of these presumptions often means that the
great barriers to the protection of procedural due process
contained in the Bill of Rights are subtly diluted 2
May Congress constitutionally enact-a law that says
Tot v. United States 'was decided in 1943, four years after the
passage by' Congress of the 1939 amendment to the present Act
eliminating the need to prove knowledge that the property had been
stolen from- the mails. Had Tot been decided before 1939 it is inconceivable that Congress would have'made the 1939 change in the
present Act.
2Mr. Justice Black and I previously have voiced this concern.
Turner v.- United States, 396 U. S. 398, 425 (dissenting opinion);
United States v. Gainey, 380 U. S. 63, 72, 74 (dissenting opinions).

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

DouGLs, J., dissenting

juries can convict a defendant without any evidence at
all from which an inference of guilt could be drawn?
If Thompson v. Louisville, 362 U. S. 199, means any-,
thing, the answer is in the negative. The Congress is
as unwarranted in telling courts what evidence is enough
to convict an accused as we would be to tell Congress
what criminal laws should be -nacted. That seems inescapably plain by the regime of separation of powers
under which we live.
In Leary v. United States, 395 U. S. 6, we held that
it was constitutionally impermissible to presume that
one who possessed marihuana would be presumed to
know of its unlawful importation. We said it would be
sheer "speculation" to conclude that even a majority
of the users of' the plant knew the source of it. Id.,
at 53. The overall test, we said, was whether it can be
said "with substantial assurance that the presumed fact
is more likely than not to flow from the proved fact on
which it is made to depend." Id., at 36.
In that case there were some statistics as to the quantity of marihuana grown here and the amount grown
abroad that enters the country. There was evidence of the characteristics of local and foreign marihuana, and
the like.
Stolen checks may be the product of local burglaries
of private homes or offices.
Stolen checks may come from purses snatched or
purloined.
Stolen checks may involve any one of numerous
artifices or tricks.
In other words, there are various sources of stolen
checks which in no way implicate federal jurisdiction.
Checks stolen from national banks, checks stolen from
federal agencies, checks lifted from the mails are other
sources.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1972
BRNNAN, Y., dissenting

412 U. S.

But, unlike Leary, we have no evidence whatsoever
showing what amount of stolen property, let alone stolen
checks, implicates the mails. Without some evidence or
statistics of that nature we have no way of assessing the
likelihood that this petitioner knew that these checks
were stolen from the mails. We can take judicial notice
that checks are stolen from the mails. But it would
take a large degree of-assumed omniscience to say with
"substantial assurance" that this petitioner more likely
than-not knew from the realities of the underworld that
this stolen property came from the mails. But without
evidence of that knowledge there would be no federal
offense of the kind.charged.
The step we take today will be applauded by prosecutors, as it makes their way easy. But the Bill- of
Rights was designed to make the job of the prosecutor
difficult. There is a presumption of innocence. Proof
beyond a reasonable doubt is necessary. The jury, not
the court, is'the factfinder. These basic principles make
the use of these easy presumptions dangerous. 3 What
we do today is, I think, extremely disrespectful of the
constitutional regime that controls the dispensation of
criminal justice.
MR.JusTIcE BREwwAw,

with whom MR,JusTIcE MAR-

joins, dissenting.
Petitioner was charged in two counts of a six-count
indictment with possession of United States Treasury

-SHALL

3

What we said in Christoffel v. United States, 338 U. S. 84, 89,
that "all the elements of the crime charged shall be proved beyond a
reasonable doubt" has been the guiaing rule at least on the issue of
guilt. And it is cogently argued 'that presumptions of the existence
of elements of a crime have no place in our constitutional framework.
See 22 Stan. L. Rev. 341 (1970). That seems indubitably true to
me, at least in the present case where knowledge that the checks were
stolen from the mails has only suspicion to support it.

BARNES v. UNITED STATES
837

BPENNAx, J., dissenting

checks stolen from the mails, knowing them to be stolen.
The essential elements of such an offense are'(1) that
the defendant was in possession- of the- checks, (2) that
the checks were stolen from the mails, and (3) that the
defendant knew that the checks were stolen. The Government proved that petitioner had been in possession
of the checks and that the checks had been stoler from
the mails; and,.in addition, the Government introduced
some evidence intended to show that petitioner knew or
should have known that the checks were stolen. But
rather than leaving the jury to determine the element
of "knowledge" on the basis of that evidence, the trial
court instructed it that it wag free to infer the
essential element of "knowledge" from petitioner'slunexplained possession of the checks. In my view, that
instruction violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment because it permitted the jury to convict
even though the actual evidence bearing on "knowledge",
may have been insufficient to establish guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt. I therefore dissent.
We held in In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358, 364 (1970),
that the Due Process Clause requires "proof beyond a\
ressonable doubt of every fact necessary to constitute
the crime .. . . " Thus, in Tunier v. United States,
396 U. S. 398, 417 (1970), we approved the inference
of "knowledge" from the fact of possessing smuggled
heroin because "'[c]ommon sense' . . . tells us that
those who traffic in heroin will inevitably become aware
that the product they deal in is smuggled .... " (Emphasis added.) The basis of that "common sense" judgment was, of course, the indisputable fact that all or
'virtually all heroin in this country, is necessariy smuggled. Here, however, it cannot b6 said that all or virtually all endorsed United States Treasury checks have
been stolen. Indeed, it is neither unlawful nor unusual

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
BiENNxA,

J., dissenting

412 U. S.

for people to use such checks as direct payment for goods
and services. Thus, unlike Turner, "common sense"
simply will not permit the inference that the possessor
of stolen Treasury checks "inevitably" knew that the
checks were stolen. Cf. Leary y,United States, 395 U. S.
6 (1969).
In short, the practical effect of the challenged instruction was to permit the jury to convict petitioner even
if it found insufficient or disbelieved all of the Government's evidence bearing directly on the issue- of
"knowledge." By authorizing the jury to rely exclusively
on the inference in determining the element of "knowledge," the instruction relieved the Government of the
burden of proving that element beyond a reasonable
doubt. The instruction thereby violated the principle of
Winship that every essential element of the crime must
be proved beyond a reasonable doubt.

