WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING

609

Syllabus

WEINBERGER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE, ET AL. v. HYNSON,

WESTCOTT & DUNNING, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTHK CIRCUIT

No. 72-394. Argued April 17, 1973-Decided June 18, 1973*
The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938, as amended in
1962, establishes a system of premarketing clearance for drugs and
prohibits in § 505 (a)the introduction into commerce of any "new
drug" unless a new drug application (NDA) filed with the Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) was effective with respect to
such drug. Under the Act procedures were established for filing
"new drug" applications not only for the safety of drugs but for
their efficacy as well. Standards were provided under which, after
notice and hearing, FDA could refuse to allow an NDA to become
effective, or could suspend an NDA in effect on the basis of new
evidence, that the drug was not effective. FDA. is directed to
refuse approval of an NDA and to withdraw prior approval if
"substantial evidence" (§ 505 (d)) that the drug is effective for its
intended use is lacking. All NDA's "effective" prior to 1962 were
deemed "approved" and manufacturers were given two years to
develop substantial evidence of effectiveness during which previously approved NDA's could not be withdrawn by FDA for
the drug's lack of. effectiveness. The 1962 Act also contained a
"grandfather" clause exempting from the effectiveness requirements
any drug which on the day preceding enactment (1) was commercially used or sold in the United States, (2) was not a "new
drug" as defined in 'the 1938 Act, and- (3) "was not covered
by an effective application" for a new drug under the 1938 Act.
FDA had permitted more than 9,000 NDA's to become effective
between 1938 and 1962, of which some 4,000 were still on the
market. Additionally, manufacturers have marketed thousands of
"me-too" drugs without applying for clearance, drugs similar or
identical to drugs with effective NDA's, marketed in reliance on
*Together with No. 72-414, Hynson, Westcott & Dunning, Inc. v.
Weinberger, Secretary of Health, Education, and-Welfare, et al., also
on certiorari to the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Syllabus

412 U. S.

the "pioneer" drug application approved by FDA. To aid it
in fulfilling the statutory mandate to review all marketea drugs,
whether or not previously approved, for their efficacy, FDA
retained the National Academy of Sciences-National Research
Council (NAS-NRC) to create expert panels to review by cliss
the efficacy of each approved drug. Holders of NDA's were
invited to furnish the panels with the best available data to establish efficacy and FDA announced that it would apply NASNRC efficacy findings to all drugs, including the "me-too" drugs.
Respondent in No. 72-394 (Hynson) had filed an application for
a drug called Lutrexin under the 1938 Act. FDA informed
Hynson that the studies submitted with the application were not
sufficiently well controlled to justify the claims of effectiveness, but
allowed the application to become effective since the 1338 Act permitted evaluation of a new drug solely on the basis of its safety.
When the 1962 amendments became effective Hynson submitted
evidence of the efficacy of the drug, but the NAS-NRC panel reported that Hynson had not satisfied the requirements. Notice
of an intention to withdraw approval of the NDA's covering the
drug was given by the Commissioner of Food and Drugb. Before
the hearing, Hynson brought suit in the District Court for a
declaratory judgment that the drug was exempt from rhe efficacy
review provisions of the 1962 Act, or that there was no lack of
substantial evidence of the drug's efflicacy Petitioners' motion to
dismiss was granted. While the District Court litigation was pending, the Commissioner denied Hynson's request for a hearing
based on claims of "substantial evidence" of Lutrexn's effectiveness, and withdrew the NDA for the drug, ruling that it was not
exempt from the 1962 amendments and that Hynson had not
submitted adequate evidence that the drug was not a new
drug or was effective. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that while the drug was not exempt, Hynson was entitled
to a hearing on the substantial-evidence issue. No. 72-414
is a cross-petition. by Hynson from the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, which suggested that only a district c6urt has authority
to determine whether Lutrexin is a "new drug." While Hynson
agrees that the Commissioner has authority to determine new drug
status in proceedings to withdraw approval of the product's NDA,
some manufacturers, parties to other suits in this group of cases,
advance the contrary, view. Held:
1. The 1962 amendments and the regulations issued thereunder, which express well-established principles of scientific in-

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING 611
609

Syllabus

vestigation, in their reduction of the "substantial evidence" standard to detailed guidelines for the protection of the public, make
FDA's so-called administrative summary judgment procedure
appropriate. Pp. 617-619.
2. FDA's procedure, whereby it will not provide 'a formal hearing when it is apparent at the threshold that the applicant has not
tendered any evidence which on its face meets the statutory standards as particularized by the regulations, is valid. United States
v. Storer Broad&'sting Co., 351 U. S. 192; FPC v. Texaco, 377
U. S. 33. Pp. 620-622.
3. In No. 72-394, the Court of Appeals' holding that Hynson
was entitled to a hearing on whether its submission of evidence
satisfied its threshold .burden of providing "substantial evidence"
is affirmed. Pp. 62?-623.
4. The heart of the 'statutory *procedure is the grant of primary jurisdiction to FDA, subject to judicial review when administrative remedies are exhausted. Pp. 623-627.
5. Although a drug can be "generally recognized" by experts
as effective for intended use within the meaning of the Act only
when that expert consensus is founded upon "substantial evidence,"
any ruling on Lutrexin's "new drug" status is premature, and
must await the outcome of the heaing on whether Hynson submitted "substantial evidence," as held in No. 72-394 (item 3,
supra). Pp. 628-632.
@. Lutrexin is not exempt' under the "grandfather" provisions
of the 1962 Act, as held by FDA arid the Court of Appeals,
and their construction accords with the legislative history which
suggests that the exemption is afforded only for drugs that never
had been subject -to new drug regulation. Pp. 632-634.
461 F. 2d 215, affirmed. as modified.
DouGais, J.; delivered the opinion of the Court, in .which BURGER,
C. J., and WHrrE, MARSwhA, Brcxuuw, and REaNQUIsT, JJ,
joined. PoWELL, J.; filed an opinion concurring in the result as to
Part I and joining in Part II of the Court's opinion, post, p. '637.
BRENwtN, 3', took no part in the consideration or decision of the
cases. STBWART, J., took no part in the dcision of the aset.
Deputy Solicitor General Friedman and Andrew L.
Frey argued the cause for petitioners hi No. 72-394 and
resp6ndents in No. 72-414. With Mr. Frey on the briefs
were Solicitor General Griswold, A.sistant Attorney Gen-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1972
Opinion of the Court

_
412 U. S.

eral Kauper,.Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Robbrt
B. Nicholson, Howard E. Shapiro, and PeterBartd:Hutt.
Edward Brown Williams argued the cause for petitioner in No. 72-414 and respondent in No. 72-394. With
him on the briefs was "Tan Edward Williams.t
MR. JUsTIcE. DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, together with Weinberger v. Bentex Pharmaceuticals,Inc., post, p. 645, CIBA Corp. v. Weinberger,
post, p. 640, and USV Pharmaceutical Corp. v. Weinberger, post, p. 655, all here on certiorari, raise a series of
questions under the 1962 amendments 1 to the Federal
Food, Drug, aiid Cosmetic Act of 1938. 52 Stat. 1040.
The 1938 Act, which established a system of premarketing
clearance for drugs, prohibited the introduction into
commerce of any "new drug" unless a new drug application (NDA) filed with the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) was effective with respect to that drug. § 505
(a), 52 Stat. 1052. Under the 1938 Act a "new drug"
•tBriefs of amici curiae in both cases were filed by Lloyd N. Cutler,
Daniel Marcus, and William T. Lake for Pharmaceutkal Manufacturers Assn.; by Bruce J. Terxis, Joseph Onek, and Peter H.
Schuck for American Public Health Assn. et al.; and by Thomas D.
Finney, Jr., Thomas Richard Spradlin, and Daniel F. O'Keefe, Jr.,
for Lhe Proprietary Assn. Briefs of amici curiae in No, 72-394 were
filed by Alan H. Kaplan for E. R. "Squibb & .Sons, Inc., and by
Robert L. Wald, Selma M. Levine, Joel'E.Hoffman, Philip Elmqn,
and Philip J. Franks for USV Pharmaceutical Corp.
I Drug Amendments of 1962 (Harris-Kefauver Act), 76 Stat. 780,
amending 21 U. S. C. § 301 et seq.
2 The Act originally provided for filing applications with the Secretary of Agriculture, but his functions. were assigned to .FDA.
FDA is now part of the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare (HEW), and the Secretary of HEW his delegated his responsibilities under the Federal Food, Drug, and:Cosmetic Act to the
Commissioner of Food and Drugs. 21 CIR § 2.120.

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING 613
609

Opinion of the Court

was one not generally recognized by qualified experts as
safe for its intended use. § 201 (p) (1). The Govern.ment could sue to enjoin violations, prosecute criminally,
and seize and condemn the articles. §§ 301 (d), 302 (a),
303, 304. The Act established procedures for filing
NDA's, § 505 (b), and provided standards under which,
after notice and hearing, FDA could refuse to allow an
NDA to become effective, §§ 505 (c) and (d), or could
suspend an NDA in effect on the basis of.new evidence
that the drug was unsafe. § 505 (e). Orders denying
or suspending an NDA could be reviewed in a district
court on the administrative record. § 505 (h).
The 1962 Act amended § 201 (p) (1) of the 1938 Act
to define a "new drug" as a drug not generally recognized
among experts as effective as well as safe for its intended
use. 21 U. S. C. § 321 (p) (1). A new drug, as now
defined, still may not be marketed unless an NDA is in
effect. FDA is now directed to refuse approval of an NDA
and to withdraw any prior approval if "substantial evidence" ' that the drug is effective for its intended use is
lacking. 21 U. S. C. §§ 355 (d) and (e). Thus, the basic
clearance system, requiring FDA approval of an NDA before a "new drug" may be lawfully marketed, was continued, except that FDA now either must approve or"
disapprove an application within 180 days. 21 U. S. C.
§ 355 (c). - (Under the "1938 Act an application automatically became effective if it was not disapproved.)
Judicial review was transferred to the courts of appeals.
21 U. S. C. § 355 (h).
3"Substantial evidence" was defined to mean "evidence consisting
of adequate and well-controlled investigations, including clinical investigation,, by experts qualified by scientific training and experience
to evaluate the effectiveness oi fie drug involved, on the basis of
which it could fairly and responsibly be concluded by such experts
that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to
have. . . ." 21 U S. GO § 355 (d .

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of "the Court

412 U. S.

Since the Act as amended requires affirmative agency
approval, all NDA's "effective" prior to 1962 were deemed
"approved" under the new definition, and manufacturers*
were given two years to develop substantial evidence of
effectiveness, during which previously approved NDA's
could not be withdrawn by FDA for a drug's lack of effectiveness 4 The 4962 amendments also contain" a "grandfather" clause exempting from the effectiveness requirements any drug which on the day preceding enactment
(1) was commercially used or sold in the United States,
(2) was not a "new drug" as defined in the 1938 Act (it
being generally recognized as safe), and (3) "was not
covered by an effective application" for a new drug under
the 1938 Act.5
Between 1938 and 1962 FDA had permitted 9,457
NDA's to become effective. Of these, some 4,000 were
still on the market. In addition, there were thousands
of drugs which manufacturers had marketed without applying to FDA for clearance. These drugs, known as
"me-toos," are similar to or identical with drugs with
effective NDA's and are marketed in reliance on the
"pioneer" drug application approved by FDA. In some
cases, a manufacturer obtained an advisory opinion letter
from FDA that its product was generally recognized
among experts as safe.
* To aid in its task of fulfilling the statutory mandate
to review- all marketed drugs for their therapeutic effi6acy, whether or not previously approved, FDA retained the National Academy of Sciences-National Re-,
search Council (NAS-NRC) to create expert panels to
review by class the efficacy of 'each approved drug.
•Holders of NDA's were invited to furnish the panels with
-4Drug Amendments of 1962, §§ 107 (c) (2) and (c) (3) (B), 76
Stat. 788, note following 21 U. S. C. § 321.
1Id., § 107 (e)
(4).

WEINBERGER'v. HYNSON, WFTCOTT & DUNNING
609

615

Opinion of the Court

the best available data to establish the effectiveness of
their drugs. The panels reported to FDA; and on
January,23, 1968, FDA announced its-policy of applying
the N S-NRC efficacy findings to all drugs, including
the related "me-too" drugs.7
I
Respondent in No. 72-394, Hynson, Westcott & Dunning, Inc., had filed an application under the 1938
Act for a drug called Lutrexin, recommended by
Hynson for use in the treatment of premature labor,
threatened and habitual abortion, -and. dysmenorrhea.
FDA* informed Hynson that Hynson's studies submitted with the application were not sufficiently well
controlled to justify the claims of effectiveness and
urged Hynson not to represent the drug as useful
for threatened and habitual abortion. But FDA allowed the application to become effective, since the 1938
Act permitted evaluation of a new drug solely on the
grounds of it safety. Before the 1962 amendments
Hynson filed an-application for a related drug ;which
FDA, again on the basis of the test of safety, allowed to
become effective. When the 1962 amendments becamie
effective and NAS-NR :undertook to appraise the efficacy of drugs theretofore apprpoved as safe, Hynson submitted a list of literature references, a copy of an un.published study, and a representative sample testimonial
letter on behalf of Lutrexin. The panel of NAS-NRC
831 Fed. Reg. 9426.
7FDA has recently adopted

-a regulation declaring the manner
in which Drug Effidacy Study Iihplementation Notices and Notices
of Opportutty for. Hearing apply tQ identical, related, and similar
drugs. Any person with an interest in such drugs is provided
an opportunity for hearing on any proposed withdrawal of NDA
approval for the basic or pioneer drug. 37 Fed. Reg. 23185,
adding § 130.40 to 21 CFR. -

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

working in the relevant field reported to FDA that fynson's claims for effectiveness of the drug were either inappropriate or unwarranted in the absence of submission
of further appropriate documentation. At the invitation
of-the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, Hynson submitted additional data. But the' Commissioner concluded that this additional information was inadequate
and published notice of his intention to withdraw approval of the NDA'S covering the drug, offering Hynson
the opportunity for a" prewithdrawal hearing. Before
the hearing could take place, Hynsofi brought suit in the
District Court for a declaratory judgment that the drugs
in question were exempt from the efficacy review provisions of the 1962 amendments or, alternatively, that
-there was no lack of substantial evidence of the drug's
efficacy. 'The Government's motion to disiss was
granted, 'the District Court ruling' hat FDA had primby
jurisdiction' and that Hynson had failed to exhaust its
'administrative remedies.
While the District Court litigation was pending, FDA
promulgated new regulations establishing minimal standards for "adequate and well-controlled investigation's"
and limiting the right to a hearing to those applicants
who could proffer at least some evidence meeting those
standards
Although Hynson maintained that it was
not subject to the new regulations because its initial
-request for a hearing predated their issuance, it,renewed
its request and submitted the material which it'claimed
constituted "substantial evidence" of Lutrexin's effectiveness. The Commissioner denied the request for a hearing and withdrew the NDA for Lutrexin. He ruled that
Lutrexin is not exempt from the 1962 amendments and
that Hynson had not submitted adequate evidence that
-Lutrexin is not a new drug or is effective. -' The Court
. 35 Fed. Reg. 7251, amending 21 M §§ 130.12 a) (5) and 130.14.

WEINBERGER uv-HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DTUNNING 617
609

Opinion of the Court

of Appeals reversed, 461 F. 2d 215, holding that while the
drug in question was not exempt, Eynson was entitled
to . hearing on the substantial-evidence question.
'Section 505 (e) I directs FDA to withdraw approval
of an NDA if the manufacturer fails tocarry the burden
of showing there is "substantial evidence" o respecting
the efficaci of the drug. As the Court of Appeals says,
"substantial evidence" -was substituted for "preponderance" of the evidence. 461 F. 2d, at 220. The Act and
the Regulations, in their reduction of that standard to
detailed guidelines," make FDA's so-called .administra-

tive summary judgment procedure appropriate.
The general contours of "substantial evidence" are de-

fined by § 505' (d) of fhe Act to include "evidence consisting. of adequate and Well-controlled investigations,

including.clinicgl investigations, by experts qualified by
scientific training and' experience to evaluate, the effectiveness of the drug involved, on the basis of which it

could fairly and, responsibly be concluded by such experts
that the drug will have.the effect it purports or is represented to have'under the conditions of use prescribed,

reconmended, or suggested in the labeling or prQposed
labeling thereof." 21 U. S. C. § 355 (d). Acting putSection 505 (e) as -amended; 21 U. S. C. '§ 355 (e), provides iii
relevant part:
"The Secretary shall, after due notice and opportunity for hearing
to the applicant, withdraw approval of an application with respect
to any drug under this section if the Secretary finds . . . (3) on
the basis of new information before him with respect to such drug,
evaluated together with the evidence available to him when the application was approved, that there is a lack of substantial evidence
that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to
have under the conditions of use prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling thereof ..

'0 See n. 3, supra.
".Title 21 CFR § 130.12 (a) (5) as amended, 35 Fed. Reg. 1251,
is set forth in relevant part in an Appendix to this opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

suant ,tohis "authority to promulgate regulations for the
efficient enforcement" of the Act, § 701 (a), 21 U. S. C
§ 371 (a), the Commissioner has detailed the "principles . . . recognized by the scientific community as
the essentials of adequate and well-controlled clinical
investigations. They provide the basis for the determination whether there is 'substantial evidence' to support the claims of effectiveness for 'new drugs' ..
21 CFR § 130.12 (a) (5) (ii). They include a "plan or
protocol" settinA forth the objective of the study and
an adequate method for selecting appropriate subjects, 2
explaining the methods of observation and steps taken
to minimize bias, providing a. comparison by one of
.four "recognized" methods of the results of treatment
or diagnosis with a control, and summarizing the methods
of analysis, .including any appropriate statistical methods. Id., § 130.12 (a) (5) (ii) (a). No investigation will
be considered "adequate for approval of a new drug"
unless- the test drug is "standardized as to identity,,
strength, quality, purity, and dosage form to give significance to the results of the investigation." Id., § 130.12
(a) (5(ii)(4).
Finally, the regulation provides that
"[Ulncontrolled studies or partially controlled studies are
not acceptable as the sole basis for the approval of claims
of effectiveness. Such studies, carefully conducted and
documented, may provide corroborative support ....
Isolated case reports, random experience, and reports
lacking the details which permit scienitific evaluation will
not be conisidered." Id., § 130.12 (a) (5) (ii) (c).
Lower courts have upheld the validity of these regu-

22 Subjects must be chosen so that they are "suitable for the purposes of the study," assigned to test groups in such 'a way as to

minimize bias, and comparable in terms of "pertinent variables, such
as age, six, severity, or duration of disease, and use of drugs other
than the test drug." 21 CFR § 130.12 (a)(5) (ii) (a) (2).

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING

619

Opinion of the Court

609

lations," and it is not disputed here that they express

well-established principles of scientific, investigation.
Moreover, their strict and demanding standards, barring
anecdotal evidence indicating that doctors "believe" in
the efficacy of a drug, are amply justified by the legislative
history. The hearings underlying the 1962 Ac show a
marked concern that impressions or beliefs of physicians,
no matter- how fervently held, are treacherous?'
Congress in its definition of "substantial evidence" in
§505 (d) wrote the requirement of "evidence .consisting of adequate and well-controlled investigations." The
Senate Report makes, clear that an abrupt depiarture was
being taken from old norms for marketing drugs. There
had been mounting concern over efficacy of drugs as well
as their safety."

The Report stated: 18

"[A] claim could be rejected- if it were found
(a) that the investigations were not 'adequate';
(b) that they were-not 'well controlled'; (c) that they
-had been conducted by experts not qualified to
evaluate the effectiveness of the, drug for which the
application is m~ade; or (d) that the conclusions
13 Upjohn Co. v. Finch, 422 F. 2d" 944 (CA6); Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Assn. v. Richardson, 318 F. Supp. 301 (Del.). FDA
was enjoined from enforcing the regulations as originally issued
on September 19, 1969, 34 Fed. Reg. 14596, on the ground that
FDA had not complied with the notice requiremenfts of the Administrative Procedure Act:. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Assn. v.
Finch, 307 F. Supp. 858 (Del.),. The regulations were reissued in
their current form on May 8, 1970. 35 Fed. Reg. 7251.
14 See-Hearings on S. 1552 before the Subcommittee on Antitrust
and Monopoly of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, .7th Cong.,
1st Sess., pt. 1, pp. 195, 282, 411-412. Much of this aspect of the
legislative background of the 1962 Act is reviewed in enlightening
detail by Judge Latchum in PharmaceuticalManufacturers Ansn. v.
Richardson,supra,at 306 et seq.
"5S. Rep. No. 1744, 87th Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 2, p. 1.
13Id., at 6.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

drawn by such experts could not fairly and responsibly be derived from their investigations."
To be sure, the At requires FDA to give "due notice and opportunity for hearing to the applicant"
before it can withdraw its approval of an NDA. § 505
(e), 21 U. S. C. § 355 (e). FDA, however, by regulation, requires any applicant who desires a hearing to
submit reasons "why the application . . . should not
be withdrawn, together with a well-organized and fullfactual.analysis of the clinical and other investigational
data he is prepared to prove in support of his opposition
to the notice of opportunity foi ahearing....
When it
clearly appears from the data in the application and from
the reasons and factual analysis in the request for the
hearing that there is no genuine and substantial issue
of fact..., e: g., no adequate and well-controlled clinical investigations to support the claims of eff*ectiveness,"
the Commissioner may deny a hearing and enter an order
withdrawing the application based solely on these data.'
21 CFR § 130.14 (b). What the agency has said, then, is
that it will not provide a formal hearing where it is apparent at the threshold that the applicant has not tendered any evidence which on its face meets the statutory.
standards as particularized by the regulations.
The propriety of such a procedure was decided in
United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., 351 U. S. 192,
205, and FPC v. Texaco, 377 U. S. 33, 39. We said in
Texaco:
"[Tlhe statutory requirement for a hearing under,
§ 7 [of the Natural Gas Act] does not preclude the
Commission from particulariziig statutory standards
through the rulemaking process and barring at the
threshold those who neither measure up to them nor
show reasons why in the public interest the rule
should be waived." Ibid.

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

621

Opinion of the Court

There can be no question that to prevail at a hearing
an applicant must furnish evidence stemming from "adequate and well-controlled investigations." We cannot
impute to Congress the design of requiring, nor does due
process demand, a hearing when it appears conclusively
from the applicant's "pleadings" that the'application
cannot succeed."
The NAS-NRC panels evaluated approximately 16,500
claims made on behalf of the 4,000 drugs marketed pursuant to effective NDA's in 1962. Seventy pefcent of'
these claims were found not to be supported by substantial evidence of effectiveness, and only 434 drugs were
found effective for all their claimed uses. If FDA
were required automatically to hold a hearing for each
product whose efficacy was questioned by the NAS--NRC
study, even thougli many hearings would be an exericse
in futility, we have no doubt that it could not fulfill its
statutory mandate to remove from the market all those
-drugs vhich do not meet the effectiveness requirements
"of the Act.
17 This applies, of course, only to those regulations that are precise.
For example, the plan or protocol for a study must include "[a] sum:
mary of the methods of analysis and an evaluation of data derived
from the study, 3nduding any appropriate statistical methods." 21.
CFR § !30.12(a) (5) (ii) (a) (5). A mere reading of the study submitted will indicafe whether the study is totally deficient in this
regard. Some of the regulations, however, are not precise, as they
call for the exercise of discretion or subjective judgment in determining whether a study is adequate and well controlled..*For example, § 130.12 (a) (5) (ii) (a) (2) (i) requires that the plan or protbcol
for the study include a method of selection of the subjects that
provide "adequate assurance that they are suitable for the purposes
of the study." (Emphasis added.) The qualitative standards "adequate" and "suitable" do not lend themselves to clear-cut definition,
and it may not be possible to tell from he face of a study whether
the standards have been met. Thus, it might not be proper to deny a hearing on the ground that the study did not comply with this
regulation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U.S.

If this. were a case involving trial by jury as provided
in the Seventh Amendment, there would be' sharper limitations on the use of summary judgment,18 as our-de-:
cisions reveal. See, e. g., Adicke8 v. Kress & Co., 398
U. S. 144, 153-161; White Motor Co. v. United States,
372 U. S.253. But Congress surely has great leeway in
setting standards for releasing on the public, drugs which.
may well be miracles or, on the other hand, merely ehsy
money-making schehes through use of fraudulent articles
labeled in mysterious -ientific dress. The standard of
"well-controlled investigations" particularized 'by the
regulations is a protective measure designed to ferret out
those drugs for which there is no affirmative, reliable evidence of effectiveness. The drug manufacturers have full
and precise notic6 of the evidence they must present to
sustain their NDA's, and under these circumstances we
find FDA hearing regulations unexceptionable on any
statutory or constitutional ground.
Our conclusion that the summary judgment procedure
of FDA is valid does not end the matter, for Hynson
argues that, its submission to FDA satisfied its 'threshold burden. In revIewing an order of the Commissioner
denying a hearing, a court of appeals must determine
whether the Commissioner's findings accurately reflect
the study in .question and if they do, whether the defi-ciencies he finds conclusively render the study inadequate
or uncontrolled in light of the pertinent regulations."8
*8 Under. the Rules of Civil Procedure the party moving for summarl judgment has the burden of showing the absence of a genuine
issue as to any material fact. - Adickes v. Kress & Co., 398 U. S.
144,
157.
1
Under the Administrative Procedure Act, a court reviews agency
fndings to determine whether they are supported by substantial
evidence only in a, case subject to the hearing provisions of 5 U. S. C.
§§ 556 and 557 qr-"otherwise reviewed on the record of an agency
hearing provided by statute ... " 5 U. S. C. § 706 (2) (E) This

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

623

Opinion of the Court

There is a contrariety of opinion within the Court concerning the adequacy of Hynson's submission. Since a
majority ae of the view that the submission was sufticient to warrant a hearing, we affirm the Court of Appeals on tha; phase of the case.
II
No. 72-414 is a cross-petition by Hynson from the judgwent-of the Court of Appeals. This cross-petition raises
questions concerning the "new drug" provisions of the
1962 amendments. The Court of Appeals suggested that
.only a district court has authority to determine whether
Lutrexin is d "new drug." The Government contends
that the Commissioner has authority to determine new
drug, status in proceedings to withdraw approval of the
product's NDA under § 505 (e). Although Hynson
agrees, some of the manufacturers, parties to other suits
in this group of cases, advance the contrary view.
Prior to 1938 there was no machinery for the premarketing approval of drugs sold in comnerce. Under
the 1906 Act, 34 Stat. 768, adulterated and misbranded
drugs were narrowly defined, and the Act provided only
criminal'sanctions and seizure by libel for condemnation.
As previously noted, the 1938 Act provided for regulatory
clearance of drugs prior to marketing and for administrative suspension of any clearance if required in the interests
of public safety. To introduce a new drug an application had to be effective with respect to that drug. The
application was to become effective within a- fixed- period
unless the agency after notice and opportunity for hearing refused 'to permit it to become effective, finding that
is not such a case. The question with which we are concerned involves the initial agency determination whether a hearing is required
by statute. See Pfizer, .Inc. v. Richardson, 434 F. 2d 536, 546-547
(CA2)..

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

it could not determine from existing evidence or had not
been shown that it was safe. 52 Stat. 1041-1042, 1052.
Any NDA could be suspended if clinical experience or
new testing showed that the drug was not safe. Id., at
1053. Orders denying or suspending an NDA were reviewable on the administrative record in a district court.
Ibid. Marketing a new drug without an effective NDA
could be enjoined or made the basis of a criminal prosecution, or the drug could be seized in libel and condemiiation proceedings.
There was a steady stream of NDA's under that Act
supported by voluminous data.20 Many new drugs
claiming "me-too" status were marketed illegally or
were launched with an advisory opinion of FDA that
they were recognized as safe. It is esfimated that.by
1969 there were five identical or similar drugs for every
drug with an effective NDA. Enormous administrative
problems were created. Each NDA contained about 30
volumes, a stack 10 to 12 feet high; and some contained
as many as 400 volumes of data.
It is clear to us that FDA has power.to determine
whether particular drugs require an approved NDA in
order to be sold to the public. FDA is indeed the
administrative agency selected by Congress to administer
the Act, and it cannot administer the Act intelligently
and rationally unless it has authority to determine what
drugs are "new drugs" under § 201 (p) and whether they
are exempt from the efficacy requirements of the 1962
amendments by the grandfather clause of § 107 (c) (4).
Regulatory agencies have by the requirements of particular statutes usually proceeded on a case-by-case basis,
giving each person subject to regulation separate hear20 1939 Annual Report FDA, 1941 Annual Report FDA; Annual
Reports Federal -Security Agency (1938-1952); Annual Reports
HEW (1953-1962).

WEINERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING "625
609

Opinion of the Court

ings. But there is not always a constitutional reason
why that must be done. United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., 351 U. S. 192, is one example. We there
upheld rules of the Federal Communications Commission
limiting the number of broadcasting stations a single
individual might own, saying-that that was a proper
exercise of the agency's "rule-making authority necessary
for the orderly conduct of its business." Id., at 202.
The comprehensive, rather than the individual, treatment
may indeed be necessary for quick effective relief. See
PermianBasinArea Rate Cases, 390 U. S. 747. A generic
drug-which is found to be unsafe and/or lacking in
efficacy-may be manufactured by several persons or
manufacturers. To require separate judicial proceedings
to be brought against each, as if each were the owner of a
Blick Acre being condemned, would be to create delay
where in the interests of public health there should be
prompt action. A single administrative proceeding in
which each manufacturer may be heard is constitutionally
permissible measured by the requirements of procedural
due process.
FDA maintains that a withdrawal of any NDA approval covers all "me-too" drugs. For the reasons stated,
- that procedure is a*permissible one where every manufacturer of a challenged drug has an opportunity to be
heard. FDA under § 554 of the Administrative Procedure Act may issue a declaratory order governing all
drugs covered by a particular NDA. 5 U. S. C. § 554 (e).
That section prescribes the procedures an agency must
follow "in every case of adjudication required by statute
to be determined on the record after opportunity for an
agency hearing." § 554 (a). The industry maintains
that § 554 (e) is -of no avail to FDA because in a withdrawal proceeding a common issue is whether a drug is a
"new drug." That issue, it is argued, can be resolved only
in a court proceeding where there is an adjudication

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

"on the record of [a) hearing."' But that assumes an individualized hearing and adjudication as is common in
regulatory proceedings. Section 554 (e), however, does not
*place administrative proceedings in that straitjacket. It
provides that an agency "in its sound discretion, may issue
a declaratory order to terminate a controversy or remove
uncertainty." The termination of a controversy over"a
"new drug" may often be of prime importance. This
is an age of ever-expanding dockets at the administrative
as well as at the judicial level. If the administrative
controls over drugs are to be efficient, they must be exercised with dispatch. Only paralysis would result if case.by-case battles in the courts were the only way to protect the public against unsafe or ineffective drugs. Moreover, if eyery "me-too' drug in a particular generic category had to be put to the test in court actions, great
inequities might well result. It might take months to
eliminate one "me-too" drug manufactured by one company from the market.. Meanwhile, competitors selling
drugs in the same category would go' scot-free until the
tedious and lhborious procedures of litigation reached
them. We' cannot believe that Congress engaged in such
an exercise in futility when it enacted the 1962 amendments. That would in effect restore the enforcement
provisions to the status they enjoyed under the rather
primitive 1906 Act. We hold that FDA by reasons of
§ 554.(e) of the Administrative Procedure Act may issue
a declaratory order to terminate a controversy.over a
"new drug" or to remove any uncertainty.whether a par-ticular drug is a "new drug" within the meaning of § 201
(p) (1) 'of the 1938 Act. See Abbott Laboratories v.
Gardner, 387 U. S. 136.
It is argued, however, that the only lawful purpose of
ah FDA hearing is to allow'it a method for determining
which lawsuits it will file in the future. Yet that is
only' another version of the tactics of delay and procras-

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

627

Opinion of the Court

tination which the industry offers as the way best to
serve industry's needs. The public needs are, however,
opposed and paramount. We do not accept the invitation to hold that FDA has no jurisdiction to determine
whether a particular drug is a "'new drug" and to decide
whether an NDA should be withdrawi.
Its determination that a product is a "new drug" or
a "me-too" drug is, of course, reviewable. But its jurisdiction to determine whether it has jurisdiction is as
essential to its effective operation as is a court's like
power. Cf. United States v. Shipp, 203 U. S. 563, 573.
The heart of the new procedures designed by Congress
is the grant -of primary jurisdiction to FDA, the expert
agency it created. FDA does not have the final say,
for review may be had, not in a district court (except"in
a limited group of cases we will discuss), but in a court
of appeals. FDA does not have unbridled discretion to
do what it pleases. Its procedures must satisfy the rudiments of fair play. Judicial relief is available only after
administrative remedies have been exhausted.
It is argued that though FDA is empowered to decide
the threshold-question whether the drug is a "new drug,"
that power is only an incident to its power to approve or
withdraw approval of NDA's. Some manufacturers,
however, have no NDA's in effect and are not seeking
approval of any drugs. Nevertheless, FDA may make a
declaratory order that a drug is a "new drug." While
that order, is not reviewable in the court of appeals
under § 505 (h), it is reviewable by the district court
under the Administrative Procedure Act. 5 U. S. C.
§§ 701-704; Citizens to Preserve Overton Park v. Volpe,
401 U. S. 402,410; Abbott Laboratoriesv. Gardner,supra
at 139-148. By analogy an agency order declaring a
commodity not exempt from regulation is normally a
declaratory order that is reviewable, as we held in Frozen
Food Express v. United States, 351 U. S. 40.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Opinion.of the Court

.,

412 U. S.

The question then presentd is whether FDA-properly
exercised its jurisdiction in this instance. As indicated
above, Hynson in requesting an administrative hearing'
also asked FDA to decide that Lutrexin is not a "newdrug" .within the meaning of § 201 (p) as amended, 21
U. S. C: § 321 (p).21 In additiop, it asked that Lutrexin

be "grandfathered". under § 107 (c) (4) of the 1962
amencdments.2 2 - The Commissioner rejected both claims.Finding that Hynsofi had failed to present any evidence
of adequate and well-controlled investigations in suppbrt
2. That

section provides:
"The- term 'new drug' means"(1) Any drug (except a new animal drug or an aninial feed
bearing or containing a new animal drug) the composition bf which
is such that such drug is not generally recognized, among experts
qualified by scientific training and dxperience to evaluate the safety
and effectiveness of drugs, as safe and effective for use under the.
conditions prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling
thereof, except that such a drug' not so recognized shall not be
deemed to be a 'new drug' if at any time prior to the enactment
of this chapter it was subject to the Food and Drugs Act of June 30,
1906, as aniended, and if at such time its labeling contained the same
representations concerning the.conditions of its uge; or
.
"(2) Any drug (except a new animal drug or an animal feed
bearing or containing a new animal drug) the composition of iwhich
is such that such dtug, as a result of investigations to determine its
safety and effectiveness for use unde, such conditions, has become
so 'recognized, but which has not, otherwise than in such investigations, been used to a material extent or for a material time under
such conditions."
22 That section provides:
"In the case of any drug which, on the7 day iamediately preceding the enactment date, (A) was commercially used or sold in
the United States, (B) was not a new drug as defined by section
201 (p) of the basic Act as thenin force, and (C) was not covered
by an effective application under section 505 of that Act, the amendnients to section 201 (p) made by this Act shall not apply to such
drug when intended solely for use under conditions prescribed, rtcommenrd-d, or suggested in labeling with respect to such drug on that
day."

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

629

Opinion of the Court

of Litrexin's effectiveness, he concluded that "there is
no'data base upon which experts can fairly and re~ponsibly concluae that the safety and effectiveness of the
drugs has been proven and is so well established that the
drugs can be generally recognized amung such experts as
safe and effective for their intended uses!' The Commissioner also held that Lutrexin 'is not exempt under
§ 107 (c) (4) because its NDA, which had become, effeetive in 1953, had not been withdrawn prior to the enactment of the 1962 amendments and thus was "covered by
an effective application" within the meaning of § 107:
(c) (4) (C). The Court of Appeals affirmed the Commissioner's ruling that Lutrexin is not exempt under
§ 107 (c) (4). It did not discuss his holding that Lutrexin
currently is a "new drug." Although we agree that the
Commissioner properly ruled that Lutrexin does notf
come within § 107 (c) (4), we conclude that the Commissioner's order with respect to Littrexin's "new, drug"
status must be vacated.
The thrust of § 201 (p) is both qualitative and quantitative. The Act, however, nowhere defines what constitutes "general recognition" among experts. Hynson
contends that the "lack of substantial evidence" is applicable only to proof of the actual effectiveness of drugs
that fall within the definition of a new drug and not to
the initial determination under § 201 (p) whether a. drug
is "generally recognized" as effective. It would rely
solely on the testimony of physicians and the extant
literature, evidence that has been characterized as "anecdotal." We agree with FDA; however, that the statutory
scheme -and overriding purpose of the 1962 amendments
compel the conclusion that the hurdle of "general recognition" of effectiveness requires at least "substantial evidence" of effectiveness for approval of an NDA. In the
absence of any evidence of adequate and well-controlled
investigation supporting the efficacy of Lutrexin, a fortiori

OCTOBER TFRM, 1972
Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

Lutrexin would be a "new drug" subject to the provisions
of the Act.23
As noted, the 1962 amendments for the first time gave
FDA power to scrutinize and evaluate drugs for effectiveness as well as safety. The Act requires the Commissioner
to disapprove any application when there is a lack of "substantial evidence"" that the applicant's drug is effective.
§ 505 (d), 21 U. S. C. § 355 (d). Similarly, he may with-:
draw approval for any drug if he subsequently determines
that there is a lack of such evidence. § 505 (e), 21
U. S. C. § 355 (e). Evidence may be accepted only if
it consists of "adequate and well-controlled investigations,
including clinical investigations, by experts qualified by
scientific training and experience to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug involved ... ." § 505 (d), 21 U. S. C.
§ 355 (d). The legislative history of the Act indicates
that the test was to be a rigorous one. The "substantial
evidence" requirement reflects the conclusion of Congress,
based upon hearings, 24 that clinical impressions of practicing physicians and poorly controlled experiments do not
constitute an adequate basis for establishing efficacy.
This policy underlies the regulations defining the contours of "substantial evidence": "Uncontrolled studies
or partially controlled studies are not acceptable as the
sole basis for the approval of claims of effectiveness.
Such studies, carefully -conducted and documented, may
provide corroborative support of well-controlled studies . . . . Isolated 'ease reports, random experience,
and reports lacking the details which permit scientific
evaluation will not be considered." -21 CFR § 130.12

(a) (5)(ii) ()
2

3 .t also follows that if Hynson were not entitled to a hearing
under § 505 (e), it would not be entitled to a hearing on its claim
that Lutrexin is not a "new drug."
2.See Hearings, supra, n. 14.

WEINBERGER v.HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

631

Opinion of the Court

These efficacy requirements were not designed to be
prospective only. Clearly, after the initial two-year
moratorium on existing drugs, FDA has the power to
withdraw an application which became effective prior to
the adoption of the 1962 amendments, if the applicant
has not provided "substantial evidence" of the drug's
efficacy. The Act plainly contemplates that such drugs
will be evaluated on the basis of adequate and wellcontrolled investigations. Hynson would have us hold
that withdra*al proceedings can be thwarted by a
showing of general recognition of effectiveness based
merely on expert'testimony and reports with respect to
investigations and clinical observation regardless of the
controls used. But, we cannot construe § 201 (p) to
deprive FDA of jurisdiction over a drug which, if subject
to FDA regulation, could not be marketed because it had
not passed the "substantial evidence" test. To do so
"would be to impute to Congress a purpose to paralyze
with one hand what it sought to promote with the other."
Clark v. Uebersee Finanz-Korp., 332 U. S. 480, 489.
Moreover, the interpretation of § 201 (p) urged by
Hynson is not consistent with the statutory scheme as it
operates on a purely prospective basis. Under subsection (2), a drug cannot transcend "new drug" status until
it has been used "to a material extent or for a material
time." Yet, a drug cannot be marketed lawfully before
an NDA has been approved by the Commissioner on the
basis of "substantial evidence." As the Solicitc.r General arguep, "the Act is designed so that drugs on the
market, unless exempt, will have mustered the requisite
scientifically reliable evidence of effectiveness long before
they are in a position to drop out of active regulation by
ceasing to be a 'new. drug.'
It is well established that our task in interpreting
separate provisions of a single Act is to give the Act "the
most harmonious; comprehensive meaning possible" in

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

light of the legislative policy and purpose. Clark v..
Uebersee Finanz-Korp., supra, at 488; see United States
v. Bacto-Unidisk, 394 U. S. 784, 798. We accordingly
have concluded that a drug can be "generally recognized"
by experts as effective for intended use within the meaning of the'Act only when that expert consensus is founded
upon "substantial evidence" as defined in § 505 (d).. We
have held in No, 72-394, however, that the Commissioner
was not jastified in withdrawing Hynson's NDA without
a prior hearing on whether Hynson had submitted "substantial evidence" of Lutrexin's effectiveness. Consequently, any ruling as to Lutrexin's "new drug" status is
premature and must await the outcome of this hearing.
Finally, we cannot agree with Hynson that Lutrexin is
exempt from the provisions of the Act by virtue of § 107
(c) (4) of the 1962 amendments. That section provides
that no drug will be treated as a "new drug" if, on the day
preceding the adoption of the amendments, the drug
"(A) .was commercially.used or sold in the United States,
(B) was not a, new drug as defined by section 201 (p)
of the basic Act as then in force, and (C) was not covered by an effective application under section 505 of that
Act . . . ." The applicability of this section turns solely
on whether Lutrexin was "covered" by an effective NDA
immediately prior to the adoption of the 1962 amendments. Hynson argues that when Lutrexin became generally recognized as safe and was no longer a "new drug,"
its NDA ceased to be effective,2
2

!Iynson also argues that Lutrexin is exempt by operation of
§ 107 (c) (2), which provides:
"An application filed pursuant to section 505 (b) of the basic
Act which was 'effective' within the meaning of that Act on the •
day immediately preceding the enactment date shall be deemed, as
of the enactment date, to be an application 'approved' by the Secretary within the meaning of the basic Act is amended by this Act."
Hynson contends that Lutrexin, generally recognized as safe prior

WEINBERGER.v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING 633
609

Opinion of the Court

That argument draws no"statutory support. . The 1938
Act did not provide any mechanism other than the Commissioner's suspension authority under-.§ 505 (e), whereby
an NDA -once effective could -cease to be effective. Indeed, § 505 (e) leads to the conclusion that an NDA remains' effective unless it is suspended. That section
empowers FDA to withdraw approval 'of an NDA whenever new evidence comes to light suggestifig that the drug
has become unsafe, whether or not the drug was generally recognized as safe in the interim..
Moreover, Hynson's argument, as the Court of Appeals recognized, would render clause (C) superfluous.
Under" Hynson's'reasoning, any drug that could satisfy
clause (B)-i. e., any drug that had become generally
recognized as safe-automatically would 'satisfy clause
(C). This construction, therefore, offends the wellsettled rule of- statutory, construction that all parts of
a statute, if at all possible, are to be given effect. See,
e. g., Jarecki v. G. D. &arle & Co., 367 U. S.'303, 307;
Ginsberg & Sons v. Popkim, 285 U. S. 204, 208. The
to 1962, was not a 'new drug" tinder applicable standards before the
1962 amendments. Thus, the argument goes, its NDA had ceased
to be effective and could not be deemed "approved" under § 107
(c (2). Consequently there .vas no approval that could be with:
drawn in administrative proceedings pursuant to § 505 (e)..
This argument shares a coiamon thread .with the argumeat under
§ 107 (c) (4)-that the NDA for Lutrexin had ceased to be effective.
The argument is no -more persuasive under § 107 (c) (2) than § 107
(e) (4). In addition, the construction offered by Hynson would
upset the crefullr drawn transitionary provisions of §§ 1(7 (c) (2)
and (c) (3). Since the Commissioner now must affirmatively approve br disapprove all NDA's, § 107 (c) (2) was enacted to r-etaove
the administrativre burden of approving each and every NDA then
effective. It also protected the marketing authority of al manufacturersothat* had effectire NDA's. Without this, provision, no manufacturer whose drug had become generally recognized as safe could
have continued to market the drug if it" was not also generally recognized as effective.

OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Appendix "to opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

interpretation accorded by the Commissioner and the
Court of Appeals, on the other hand, does give clause (C)
operative effect. It would limit the exemption to drugs,
generally recognized as safe, which had not come under
the blanket of an effective NDA. This interpretation
accords with the legislative history which suggests that
the exemption is afforded only for drugs that never had
been subject to new drug regulation."
Except for the modification with respect to Lutrexin's

"new drug" status, the judgment of the Court of Appeals

Affirmed.

is

MR. JusTcE BRENwAw took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases. Mn. JusTicE STrwAnT
took no part in the decision of these cases.
APPENDIX TO OPINION OF THE COURT
Title 21 CFR § 130.12 (a)(5) provides:
(ii) The following piinciples have been developed over
a period of years and are recognized by the scientific community as the essentials of adequate and well-controlled
clinical investigations. They provide the basis for the

determination whether there is "substantial evidence" to
support the claims of effectiveness for "new drugs" and
antibiotic drugs.
2

S. Rep. No. 1744,87th Cong., 2d Sees., pt. 2, p. 8; H. R. Rep.
No. 2464, 87th Cong., 2d Sess., 12;, H. R. Rep. No. 2526, 87th
Cong., 2d Sess., 22-23. Hynson contends that the construction
afforded by FDA renders the exemption nugatory and defeats the
legislative purpose. The provision, however, does exempt drugs that,
as a generic class, were never subject to new drug regulation. These
consist primarily of over-the-counter drugs which, although they.
were not "grandfathered" under the 1938 Act, were not subject to
new drug regulation because of universal recognition of the safety
of their old, established ingredients at the time they came on the
'market.
6See

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

635

Appendix to opinion of the Cout

(a) The plan or protocol for the study and the report
of the results of the effectiveness study must include the
following:
(1) A clear statement of the objectives of the study,
(2) A method of selection of the subjects that(i) Provides adequate assurance that they are suitable
for the purposes of the study, diagnostic criteria of the
condition to be treated or diagnosed, confirmatory laboratory tests where appropriate, and, in the case of prophylactic agents, evidence of susceptibility and exposure to
the condition against which prophylads is desired.
(ii) Assigns the subjects to test groups in such a way
as to minimize bias.
(iii) Assures comparability in test and control groups
of pertinent variables, such as age, sex, severity, or duration of disease, and use of drugs other than the test drug.
(3) Explains the methods of observation and recording
of xesults, including the variables measured, quantitation,
assessment of any subject's response, and Ateps taken to
minimize bias on the part of the subject and observer.
(4) Provides a comparison of the results of treatment
or diagnosis with a control in such a fashion as to permit
quantitative evaluation. The precise nature of the control must be stated and an explanation given of the
methods used to minimize bias on the part of the observers
and the analysts of the data. Level and methods of
"blinding," if used, are to be documented. Generally,
four types of comparison are recognized:
(i) No treatment: Where objective measurements of
effectiveness are available and placebo effect is negligible,
comparison of the objective results in comparable groups
of treated and untreated patients.
(ii) Placebo control: Comparison of the results df use
of the new drug entity with an inactive preparation designed to resemble the test drug as far as possible.

O)CTOBER TERM, 1972
Appendix to opinion of the Court

412 U. S.

* (iii) Active treatment control: An effective regimen
of therapy, may be used for comparison, e. g., where the
condition treated is such that no treatment or administration of a placebo would be contrary to the interest of
the patient.
(iv) Historical control: In certin circumstances, such
as those involving diseases with high and predictable
mortality (acute leukemia of childhood), with signs and
symptoms of predictable duration or severity (fever in
certain infections), or in case of prophylaxis, where
morbidity is predictable, the results of use of a new drug
entity may be compared quantitatively with prior experience historically derived from the adequately documented natural history of the disease or condition in
comparable patients or populations with no treatment or
with a regimen (therapeutic, diagnostic, prophylactic)
the effectiveness 5f which is established.
(5) A summary of the. methods of analysis and an
evaluation of data deriyed from the study, including any
appropriate statistical methods.
ProvWded, however, That any of the above criteria may
be waived in whole or in part,'either prior to the investigation or in the evaluation of a completed study, by the
Director of the Bureau of Drugs with respect to a specific
clinical investigation- a petition for such a waiver may be
filed by any person who would be adversely affected by
the application of the criteria-to a particular clinical investigation; the petition should show that some or all of
the criteria are not reasonably applicable to the investigation and that alternative procedures can be, or have been,
followed, the results of which will or have yielded data
that can and should be accepted as substantial eviderice
of the drug's effectiveness. A petition for a waiver shall"
set forth clearly and concisely the specific provision or
provisions in the criteria from which waiver is sought,
why the criteria are not reasonably applicable to the par-

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

637

Opinion of PowEmn, J.

ticular clinical investigation, what alternative procedures,
if any, are to be, or have been, employed, what results
have been obtained, and the basis on which it can be, or
has been, concluded that the clinical investigation will or
has yielded substantial evidence of effectiveness, notwithstanding nonconformance with the criteria for which
waiver is requested.
(b) For such an investigation to be considered adequate for approval of a new drug, it is required that the
test drug be standardized as to identity, strength, quality,
purity, and dosag,6 form to give significance to the results
of the investigation.
(c) Uncontrolled studies or partially controlled studies
are not acceptable as the sole basis for the approval of
claims of effectiveness. Such studies, carefully conducted
and documented, may provide corroborative support of
well-controlled studies regarding efficacy and may yield
valuable -data regarding safety of the. test drug. Such
studies will be considered on their merits in the light of
the principles listed -here, with the -exception of the requirement for the comparison of the treated subjects with
controls. Isolated case reports, random experience, and
reports lacking the details which permit scientific evaluation will not be considered.

MR. JusTrcF, PowpLL, concurring in part, and concurring in the result in part.
I concur in Part II of the Court's opinion, which disposes of the issues raised by Hynson, Westcott &
Dunning, Inc., in its cross-petition (No. 72-414).
As to Part I, which addresses issues raised in the petition filed by the Commissioner of FDA (No. 72-394), I
concur only in the result and state briefly the limited
sense in which I accept the Court's conclusion.
Insofar- as the Court today sustains the holding below
that Hynson's submission to FDA raised "a genuine and

OCTOBER TERM, 1972

Opinion of PownrL, J.

412 U. S.

substantial issue of. fact" requiring^ a hearingkon the
ultimate issue. of efficacy, 21 CFR § 13li4 (b), I
am in accord. Hynson's presentation in support of the
efficacy of Lutrexin clearly justified. a hearing as to
whether the drug was supported by "adequate and wellcontrolled investigations," 21 U. s: C. § 355 (d), even as
that term is defined in the Commission's regulations. 21
CFR § 130.12 (a) (5). 'For this reason I concur in
the result reached in this case. I cannot agree on
this record, however, with any implications or conclusions
in the Court's-opinion to the effect that the regulations-as construed and applied by the Commissioner in this
case-are either compatible with the statutory scheme
or constitutional under the Due Process Clause.' 'Such
questions have not been" squarely presented here and, in
light of the Court's conclusion that Hyns6n has complied
with the regulations, their resolution is unnecessary to
the Court's decision.
. Were we required to reach these issues, there might well
be seiious doubt whether the Comnissioner's rigorous

threshold specifications as to proof of "adequate And wellcontrolled investigations," coupled with his restrictive
summary judgmert regulation, go beyond the btatutory
requirements and in effect frustrate the congressional
mandate for a prewithdrawal "opportunity for hearing."
21 U. S. C. § 355 (e). There is also a genuine issue of
procedural due process where, -as in this case, the Commissioner construes his regulations to deny a hearing asto the efficacy of a drug established and used by the
medical profession for two decades, and where its effecCf. Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S. 67, 80 (1972), and cases cited
therein. I do not question, of course, the authority of the Corn-missioner to adopt reasonable regulations consistent with the statute
and which do not, as applied, deprive persons of their property
without the elementary due process of a fair opportunity for a
hearing.

WEINBERGER v. HYNSON, WESTCOTT & DUNNING
609

639

Opinion of PoWEL, J.

tiveness is supported by a significant volume of clinical
data and the informed opinions of experts whose qualifications are not questioned.2
These important and complex questions should await
decision in future cases in which the issues are briefed
fully and are necessary to the Court's decision.

2There can beno doubt, both from the legislative history and the
language of the 1962 amendments to the Act, that Congress intended
to impose standards that would bar reliance upon anecdotal evidence
or mere professions bf belief by doctors as deteiminative of a drug's
efficacy. But it is also clear that Congress intended to protect
> against the arbitrary withdrawal or withholding of approval of a
drug where there is "substantial evidence" of its effectiveness. To
provide protection against such action, especially when authority is
vested in an official who acts in an administrative as well as judicial
capacity, the Act specifically provides for a hearing. The public
interest is twofold: (i) to remove from the market, in accordance
with due process, drugs of no utility or effectiveness; and (ii) to
retain on the market those drugs that are efficacious. In an understandable zeal to remove the former, an administrative agency must
not overlook both the interest of the public and the right bof the
proprietor in protecting the drugs that are useful in the prevention,
control, or treatment of illness.

