SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.

239

Syllabus.

SLOCUM, GENERAL CHAIRMAN, LACKAWANNA
DIVISION NO. 30, ORDER OF RAILROAD TELEGRAPHERS, v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA &
WESTERN RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 391.

Argued February 8, 1950.-Decided April 10, 1950.

1. A railroad had separate collective-bargaining agreements with two
labor unions. A dispute arose between the two unions concerning
the scope of their respective agreements, each. claiming for its members certain jobs with the railroad. The claims were pursued in
"the usual manner" under § 3 First (i) of the Railway Labor Act,
without reaching an adjustment. Instead of invoking the jurisdiction of the Adjustment Board, the railroad filed a declaratory
judgment action in a state court, naming both unions as defendants.
After a trial, the state court interpreted the agreements and entered a declaratory judgment. Held: Under § 3 of the Railway
Labor Act, the jurisdiction of the Adjustment Board to adjust
grievances and disputes of the type here involved is exclusive,
and the state court erred in interpreting the agreements and entering a declaratory judgment. Pp. 240-245.
2. The rationale of Order of Conductors v. Pitney, 326 U. S. 561,
holding that federal courts should not interpret a carrier-union
collective agreement prior to an interpretation of such agreement
by the Adjustment Board, equally supports a denial of power to
a state court to invade the jurisdiction conferred on the Adjustment Board by the Railway Labor Act. Moore v. Illinois Central
R. Co., 312 U. S. 630, distinguished. Pp. 243-245.
299 N. Y. 496, 87 N. E. 2d 532, reversed..

A railroad brought a declaratory judgment action in a
New York state court, naming as -defendants two labor
unions with which it had separate collective-bargaining
agreements. The state court interpreted the agreements
and entered a declaratory judgment, which was affirmed
by the Appellate Division, 274 App. Div. 950, 83 N. Y. S.
2d 513, and the Court of Appeals, 299 N. Y. 496, 87 N. E.
2d 532. This Court granted certiorari. 338 U. S. 890.
Reversed and remanded, p. 245.
874433 0-50-20

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

Leo J. Hassenauer and Manly Fleischmann argued the
cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
Pierre W. Evans argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Rowland L. Davis, Jr.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Section 3 of the Railway Labor Act confers jurisdiction
on the National Railroad Adjustment Board to hold hearings, make findings, and enter awards in all disputes
between carriers and their employees "growing out of
grievances or out of the interpretation or application of
agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, or working
conditions .

. . ."'

The question presented is whether

state courts have power to adjudicate disputes involving
such interpretations when the Adjustment Board has not
acted.
The respondent railroad has separate collective-bargaining agreements with the Order of Railroad Telegraphers and the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks.' A
dispute arose between the two unions concerning the
scope of their respective agreements. Each claimed for
its members certain jobs in the railroad yards at Elmira,
New York. The railroad agreed with the Clerks Union.
The chairman of Telegraphers protested, urging reassignment of the work to members of his union and claiming
back pay on behalf of certain individual members. The
claims were pursued in "the usual manner" required by
§ 3 First (i) of the Railway Labor Act, 45 U. S. C. § 153
First (i), as a prerequisite to invoking jurisdiction of the

Adjustment Board.'

That section further provides that,

48 Stat. 1185,1189-1193, 45 U. S. C. § 153.
full name of the latter union is Brotherhood of Railway and
Steamship Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employees.
3 "The disputes between an employee or group of employees and
a carrier or carriers growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay, rules,
2 The

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

241

Opinion of the Court.

"failing to reach an adjustment in this manner, the disputes-may be referred by petition of the parties or by
either party to the appropriate division of the Adjustment
Board . . .
Instead of invoking the jurisdiction of the Adjustment
Board, the railroad filed this action for declaratory judgment in a New York state court, naming both unions as
defendants. It prayed for an interpretation of both
agreements, and for a declaration that the Clerks' agreement, not the Telegraphers', covered the jobs in controversy. It also asked for a declaration that the Telegraphers must refrain from making similar claims under
its bargaining agreement. Telegraphers moved to dismiss the case on the ground that the Railway Labor Act
left the state court without jurisdktion to interpret the
contracts and adjudicate the dispute. That motion was
denied. After a trial, the court interpreted the contracts
as the railroad had urged, and entered the requested
declarations. This judgment was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals of New York, two judges dissenting. 299
N. Y. 496, 87 N. E. 2d 532.' The majority thought that
our opinion in Moore v. Illinois Central R. Co., 312 U. S.
or working conditions ... shall be handled in the usual manner up
to and including the chief operating officer of the carrier designated
to handle such disputes; but, failing to reach an adjustment in this
manner, the disputes may be rferred by petition of the parties or
by either party to the appropriate division of the Adjustment Board
with a full statement of the facts and all supporting data bearing
upon the disputes." 48 Stat. 1191.
4The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court (3d Dept.) also
affirmed both the order of the trial court denying the motion to
dismiss, 269 App. Div. 467, 57 N. Y. S. 2d 65, and the subsequent
judgment on the merits, 274 App. Div. 950, 83 N. Y. S. 2d 513. An
opinion of the New York Supreme Court denying petitioner's motion
to remove the action to the United States District Court is reported
at 183 Misc. 454, 50 N. Y. S. 2d 313. The opinion of the United
States District. Judge remanding the case to the state court is
reported in 56 F. Supp. 634.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

630, left state courts free to adjudicate disputes arising
out of a carrier-union collective agreement without obtaining the Board's interpretation of that agreement.
The dissenting judges, however, relied on Order of Conductors v. Pitney, 326 U. S. 561, where we held that federal courts should not interpret Such agreements prior to
interpretation by the Adjustment Board. They asserted
that this rule was also applicable in state courts. We
granted certiorari to consider these questions. 338 U. S.
890.
The first declared purpose of the Railway Labor Act
is "To avoid any interruption to commerce or to the
operation of any carrier engaged therein." 48 Stat.
1186 (§ 2), 45 U. S. C. § 151a. This purpose extends
both to disputes concerning the making of collective agreements and to grievances arising under existing agreements.
See Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. Burley, 325 U. S. 7il, 722.
The plan of the Act is to provide administrative methods
for settling disputes before they reach acute stages that
might be provocative of strikes. Carriers are therefore
required to negotiate with bargaining representatives of
the employees. Virginian R. Co. v. Federation,300 U. S.
515, 547, 548. The Act also sets up machinery for conciliation, mediation, arbitration and adjustment of disputes, to be invoked if negotiations fail.
In this case the dispute concerned interpretation of an
existing bargaining agreement. Its settlement would
have prospective as" well as retrospective importance to
both the railroad and its employees, since the interpretation accepted would govern future relations of those
parties. This type of grievance has long been considered
a potent cause of friction leading to strikes. It was to
prevent such friction that the 1926 Act provided for
creation of various Adjustment Boards by voluntary
agreements between carriers and workers. 44 Stat. 578.
But this voluntary machinery proved unsatisfactory, and

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

243

Opinion of the Court.

in 1934 Congress, with the support of both unions and
railroads, passed an amendment which directly created a
national Adjustment Board composed of representatives
of railroads and unions.5 48 Stat. 1189-1193. The Act
thus represents a considered effort on the part of Congress
to provide effective and desirable administrative remedies
for adjustment of railroad-employee disputes growing out
of the interpretation of existing agreements. The Adjustment Board is well equipped to exercise its congressionally imposed functions. Its members understand
railroad problems and speak the railroad jargon.6 Long
and varied experiences have added to the Board's initial
qualifications. Precedents established by it, while not
necessarily binding, provide opportunities for a desirable
degree of uniformity in the interpretation of agreements
throughout the nation's railway systems.
The paramount importance of having these chosen
representatives of railroads and unions adjust grievances
and disputes was emphasized by our opinion in Order
of Conductors v. Pitney, supra. There we held, in a
case remarkably similar to the one before us now, that
the Federal District Court in its- equitable discretion
should have refused "to adjudicate a jurisdictional dispute
5
"These unadjusted disputes have become so numerous that on
several occasions-the employees have resorted to the issuance of
strike ballots and threatened to interrupt interstate commerce in
order to secure an adjustment. This has made it necessary for the
President of the United States to intervene and establish an emergency board to investigate the controversies. This condition should
be corrected. in the interest of industrial peace and of uninterrupted
transportation service. This bill, therefore, provides for the establishment of a national board of adjustment to which these disputes
may be submitted if they shall not have been adjusted in conference
between the parties." H. R. Rep. No. 1944, 73d Cong., 2d Sess. 3.
'For an interesting discussion of the Act's history and purposes,
see Garrison, "The National Railroad Adjustment Board: A Unique
Administrative Agency," 46 Yale L. J. 567 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

involving the railroad and two employee accredited bargaining agents . . . ." Our ground for this holding was
that the court "should not have interpreted the contracts" but should have left this question for determination by the Adjustment Board, a congressionally
designated agency peculiarly competent in this field. 326
U. S. at 567-568. This reasoning equally supports a
denial of power in any court-state as well as federalto invade the jurisdiction conferred on the Adjustment
Board by the Railway Labor Act.
Our holding here is not inconsistent with our holding
in Moore v. Illinois Central R. Co., 312 U. S. 630. Moore
was discharged by the railroad. He could have challenged the validity of his discharge before the Board,
seeking reinstatement and back pay. Instead he chose
to accept the railroad's action in discharging him as final,
thereby ceasing to be an employee, and brought suit
claiming damages for breach of contract. As we there
held, the Railway Labor Act does not bar courts from
adjudicating such cases. A common-law or statutory
action for wrongful discharge differs from any remedy
which the Board has power to provide, and does not involve questions of future relations between the railroad
and its other employees. If a court in handling such a
case must consider some provision of a collective-bargaining agreement, its interpretation would of course have no
binding effect on future interpretations by the Board.
We hold that the jurisdiction of the Board to adjust
grievances and disputes of the type here involved is exclusive.' The holding of the Moore case does not conflict
We are not confronted here with any disagreement or conflict in
interest between an employee and his bargaining representative, as
in Steele v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 323 U. S. 192. Nor are we called
upon to decide any question concerning judicial proceedings to review
board action .orinaction.

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

REED,

245

J., dissenting.

with this decision, and no contrary inference should be
drawn from any language in the Moore opinion.. It was
error for the New York courts to uphold a declaratory
judgment interpreting these collective-bargaining agreements. The judgment of the New York Court of Appeals
is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE REED,

dissenting.

The Court, denies "power in any court-state as well as
federal-to invade the jurisdiction conferred on the Adjustment Board by the Railway Labor Act." It says
"that the jurisdiction of the Board to adjust grievances.
and disputes of the type here involved is exclusive."
Read literally, this language would indicate that the Court
holds that the Board in most cases not only has exclusive
jurisdiction for the institution of proceedings to determine
rights under railroad collective-bargaining agreements,
but also for their final determination, i. e., that there is
no judicial review of the Board's awards, except those for
money. The Court, however, in note 7 states that it is
not "called upon to decide any question concerning judicial proceedings to review board action or inaction."
From this I take it that the Court means only to hold
that the Board has what might be called exclusive primary jurisdiction and that the decision is to have no implications for later cases which might pose the issue of
judicial review of Board "action or inaction." 1 Never'The sections of the statute which bear on appealability are 48
Stat. 1191, § 3 First (m) and (p). See Elgin, J. & E. R.Co. v. Burley,
325 U. S. 711, dissent, 761.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
REED,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

theless I think the Court's decision lacks statutory basis,
and I dissent from its opinion and judgment.
Since the Court's decision will be referred to as a precedent for solving administrative jurisdiction problems, it
seems worth while to set out my reasons for disagreeing
with the Court's opinion. We can foresee only a part
of the complications that this ruling of exclusive primary
jurisdiction may bring into the administration of the
Railway Labor Act. The determination of what adjudicatory body has power to judge a controversy is basic to all
litigation. Jurisdiction that has always been recognized
to exist in state courts should not be taken from them by
inference drawn with difficulty from the statute by this
Court after contrary conclusions by two state courts.!
The passage of a federal law creating a forum for the
enforcement of certain contract rights connected with
commerce does not necessarily withdraw from state courts
their recognized jurisdiction over these contract controversies. The purpose to limit enforcement to the federal
forum must be found in the federal statute in express
words or necessary implication.'
The Court calls attention to nothing to supply these
requisites. There is not a line in the statute, and so far
as I can ascertain, vnot a suggestion in the hearings that
the creation of the Adjustment Board was intended by
Congress to close the doors of the courts to litigants with
otherwise justiciable controversies. The only expression
in the statute which might conceivably support the Court
is the general declaration of the Act's purpose "to provide
for the prompt and orderly settlement of all disputes
2Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Slocum, 299 N. Y. 496, 87 N. E.

2d 532; Southern R. Co. v. Order of Railway Conductors, 210 S. C.
121, 41 S. E. 2d 774. See also Adams v. New York, C. & St. L. R.Co.,
121 F. 2d 808.
3Cf. United.States v. Bank of New York Co., 296 U. S. 463, 479;
see Claflin v. Houseman,93 U. S.130, 136.

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

247

REED, J., dissenting.

growing out of grievances or out of the, interpretation or
application of agreements covering rates of pay, rules,
or working conditions." '
But this expression is as consistent with an intention to provide an alternative forum
as to provide an exclusive one. Experience has not demonstrated that the settlement of grievances has been any
the less prompt and orderly in the courts than it has been
in the Board
Neither the Act nor our precedents support the Court's
ruling. In the section which conferred jurisdiction on the
Board, § 3 First (i), Congress provided that disputes
"shall" -be first handled by negotiations between the
parties and on their failure "may be referred by petition
of the parties or by either party to the appropriate division of the Adjustment Board ...
," 6 The use of
"may"and "shall" -in the 1934 Railway Labor Act may
not be decisive, but I fail to see how it can now be disregarded completely, when at the time of Moore v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 312 U. S. 630, the use of "may" seemed
an indication of congressional purpose sufficient to furnish
4 48

Stat. 1187, § 2 (5).

5See Fifteenth Annual Report of the National Mediation Board,
p. 12; Monograph of the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure, Part 4, Railway Labor, p. 16, S. Doc. No. 10,
77th Cong., 1st Sess. (1941).
648 Stat. 1191, § 3 First (i):
"(i) The disputes, between an employee or group of employees
and a carrier or carriers growing out of grievances or out of the
rules, or working conditions, including cases pending and unadjusted

on the date of approval of this Act, shall be handled in the usual
manner up to and including the chief operating officer of the carrier
designated to handle such disputes; but, failing to reach an adjustment in this manner, the disputes may be referred by petition of
the parties or'by either party to the appropriate. division of the
Adjustment Board w'ith a full statement of the facts and all supporting data bearing upon the disputes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
REED,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

a ground for holding that courts had concurrent primary
jurisdiction.7
The ruling in Texas & Pac. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 426, does not support today's decision. lin
that case this Court held repugnant to the Interstate
Commerce Act a suit in a state court to recover unreasonable carrier charges. The Act had given the Commission
power to determine the reasonableness of rates filed and
published under its provisions. It also prohibited explicitly preferences and discriminations in favor of shippers. The Court held that, if a shipper could recover in
the courts part of a tariff charge, he would receive a discriminatory preference. Since 'this would be wholly inconsistent with the Interstate Commerce Act, state courts
were without jurisdiction to entertain suits for the recovery of unreasonable charges.'

By necessary inference

7 312 U. S. 630, 635-36:. "It is to be noted that the section pointed
out, §-153 (i), as amended in 1934, provides no more than that disputes 'may be referred . . .to the . . .Adjustment Board ....', It
is significant that. the comparable section of the 1926 Railway Labor
Act (44 Stat. 577, 578) had, before the 1934 amendment,. provided
-that upon failure of the parties to reach an adjustment a 'dispute
shall be referred to the designated Adjustment Board by the parties,
or by either party . ... ' This difference in language, substituting
'may' for 'shall,' was not, we think, an indication of a change in
policy, but was instead a clarification of the law's original purpose.
For neither the original 1926 Act, nor the Act as amended in 1934,
indicates that the machinery provided-for settling disputes was
based on a philosophy of legal compulsion. On the contrary, the
legislative history of the Railway Labor Act shows a consistent
purpose on th part of Congress to establish and maintain a system
for peaceful ; djustment and mediation voluntary in its. nature."
?204 U. S., 426, 440-41: "For if, without previous action-by the
Commission, power might be exerted by courts and juries generally
to determine the reasonableness of an established rate, it would follow
that unless all courts reached an identical conclusion a uniform
standard of rates in the future would be impossible, as the standard
would fluctuate and vary, dependent upon the divergent conclusions'
reached as to reasonablenesg by the various -courts called upon to

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

249

REED, J., dissenting.

the Commission was found to have the sole power to
entertain originally proceedings which might result in
the alteration of an established schedule. But the Court
was careful to say that a statute was not to be construed
as taking away a common-law right unless it were found
that it was "so repugnant to the statute that the survival
of such right would in effect deprive the subsequent
statute of its efficacy." ' The Railway Labor Act has no
rule of law, similar to that against preferences, that would
be controverted if different court§ in, different states
should construe identical collective-bargaining agreements
differently. If, tb preserve uniformity in the rulings of
the Board, it were necessary that it have exclusive primary jurisdiction over grievance disputes, Congress would
hardly have provided, as it did, that carriers and railroads
by' agreement might set up system and regional boards,
independent of the National Board."' The Abilene case
was pressed by four dissenters as controlling authority
consider the subject as an original- question. Indeed the recognition
of such a right is wholljr inconsistent with the administrative power
conferred upon the Commission and with the duty, which the statute
casts upon that body, of seeing to it that the statutory requirement
as to uniformity and equality of rates'ts observed."
9 204 U. S. 426, 436-37: "As the right to recover, which the court
below sustained, was clearly within the principles just stated, and
as it is conceded that the act to regulate commerce did not in so
many words abrogate such right, it follows that.the contention that
the right was taken away by the act to regulate commerce rests
upon the proposition that such result was accomplished by implication. In testing the correctness of this proposition we concede
that we must be guide4 by the principle that repeals by implication
are not favored, and indeed that a statute will not be construed as
taking away a common law right existing at the date of its enactment,
unless that result is imperatively required; that is to say, unless it
be found that the preixisting right is so repugnant to the statute that
the survival of such right would in effect deprive the subsequent
statute of its efficacy;, in other words, render its provisions nugatory."
11) 48 Stat. 1193, § 3 Second.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
REED,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

to compel the conclusion that the Board had exclusive
jurisdiction in Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. Burley, 325 U. S.
711.11 But on the tacit assumption that courts were not
ousted of their jurisdiction, we upheld the right of employees to sue the carrier although the employment relationship still existed.
The case before us is quite different from Switchmen's Union v. Mediation Board, 320 U. S. 297, and General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323. Those
concerned controversies of a kind unfamiliar to courts,
and they involved the Mediation Board, which could impose sanctions only when the parties agreed to accept
its awards.12 We held that the issues in those cases were
not justiciable in the federal courts, since the "concept of
mediation is the antithesis of justiciability." 13 Here, the
controversy relates to the interpretation of contracts, a
function courts have always performed, and "it is not
11 325 U. S. 711, dissent, .759. The dissenters insisted, p. 760:
"The considerations making for harmonious adjustment of railroad
industrial relations through the machinery designed by Congress in
the Railway Labor Act are disregarded by allowing that machinery
to be by-passed and by introducing dislocating differentiations through
individual resort to the courts in the application of a collective
agreement."
12 48 Stat. 1195, § 5 First; 44 Stat. 584, § 8.
13 General Commitiee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S.323, 337..
Not
long after these decisions were handed down we explained them as follows: "This result was reached because of this Court's view that jurisdictional disputes between unions were left by Congress to mediation rather than adjudication. 320 U. S. 302 and 337. That is
to say, no personal right of employees, enforcible in the courts, was
created in the particular instances under consideration.' 320 U. S.
337. But where rights of collective bargaining, created by the same
Railway Labor Act, contained definite prohibitions of conduct or
were mandatory in form, this Court enforced the rights judicially.
320 U. S. 330, 331. Cf. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of
Clerks, 281 U. S.548; Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation,300
U. S. 515." Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S.288, 306-307. See Steele
v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 323 U. S. 192, 207.

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

REED,

251

J., dissenting.

to be lightly assumed that the silence of the statute -bars
from the courts an otherwise justiciable issue." 14
Nor did Order of Railway Conductors v. Pitney, 326
U. S. 561, determine the present jurisdictional issue. In
a federal bankruptcy court handling a railroad reorganization, an interpretation of a collective-bargaining agreement was sought. We declared that the federal equity
court should "exercise equitable discretion to give [the
National Railroad Adjustment Board] the first opportunity to pass on the issue." 11 Thus we determined, only
that under the circumstances of that case the District
Court, as a matter of discretion, should have remanded
to the Board a controversy over the meaning of the
collective-bargaining agreement, and at the same time
should have retained jurisdiction to apply the Board's
interpretation to the controversy. There was no intimation that -the obligation to send the controversy to the
Board was any more universal than the obligation of an
equity court to sometimes remit parties to the state courts
for a preliminary decision on state law."6 There was no
ruling that Congress had ,deprived the District Court of
jurisdiction. Today the Court is compelled to extend
the Pitney precedent from "discretion" to "jurisdiction"
because federal courts lack power to order state courts
to exercise in a particular manner their equitable discretion. But the Court's inability to secure a flexible
rule does not warrant the. Court to impose on the state
courts a rigid one.
Congress surely would not have granted this exclusive
primary power to adjudicate contracts :to a body like
the Board. It consists of people chosen and paid, not
by the Government, but by groups of carriers and the
14

Stark v. Wickard, 321 U0.S. 288, 309.
Order of Railway Conductors v. Pitney, 326 U. S. 561, 567.
16Ibid.; cf. Propper v. Clark, 337 U. S. 472; Meredith v. Winter
15

Haven, 320 U. S. 228.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
REED,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

large national unions. 7 Congress has furnished few procedural safeguards. There is no process for compelling
the attendance of witnesses or the production of evidence.
There is no official record, other than that of the informal
pleadings. Hearings are conducted without witnesses.18
The Board has operated without giving individuals a
chance to be heard unless they were represented by
unions.19
Throughout this opinion I have assumed that the
Court means only to impose a requirement of primary
recourse to the Board. But that inevitably rmeans many
litigants would be deprived of access to the courts. The
extent of judicial review of awards other than money
awards is doubtful, and it is highly questionable whether
even a money award can be reviewed in the courts if
only the carrier wishes review." Most important, the
statute provides no relief for a petitioning party-be he
union, individual or carrier-against an erroneous order
of the Board."' This Court may be hard put to protect
the rights of minorities under these circumstances."
Nevertheless the Court says that Congress has forced
the parties into a forum that has few of the attributes
17 48 Stat. 1189, § 3 First (a) (b) (c) (g).
18 Monograph, n. 5, supra, pp. 11-14; see Garrison, National RailroaJ Adjustment Board, 46 Yale L. J. 567, 576 et seq.
9-'Monograph, n. 5, supra,p. 7.
20 See Washington Terminal Co. v. Boswell, 75 U. S. App. D. C. 1,
12, .124 F. 2d 235, 246; affirmed by an equally divided court, 319
U. S. 732.
Garrison, National Rail2148 Stat. 1191, §3 First (m) and (p).
road Adjustment Board, 46 Yale L. J. 567, 591.
22 See Tunstall v. Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen, 323 U. S.
210; Steele v. Louisville'& N. R. Co., 323 U. S. 192, 206. Compare

Howard'v. Thompson, 72 F. Supp. 695; State ex rel. St. Louis-S. F.
R. Co. v. Russell, 358 Mo. 1136, 21.9 S:W. 2d 3.40; Edwardsv. Capital
Airlines, 84 U. S. App. D. C. 346, 350, 176 F. 2d 755, 759 et seq. Cf.
Shields-v. Utah Idaho R. Co., 305 U. S. 177,

SLOCUM v. DELAWARE, L. & W. R. CO.
239

REED,

253

J., dissenting.

of a court, but which may be the final judge of the rights
of individuals. Our duty as a court does not extend
to a determination of the wisdom of putting a solution
of industry problems into the hands of industry agencies
so far as the Constitution will permit."
Some may deem
it desirable to weld various industries or professions into
self-governing forms, completely free from judicial intervention. This desire may spring from a conviction that
experience and training in highly specialized fields give
the' members of a group that understaiiding and capacity
which will enable them to govern their internal affairs
better than would courts dealing with the generality of
human relations and only occasionally with these specialized controversies. Congress, however, has never
completely so isolated an industry from the rest of the
Nation. There is too much interrelation and interdependence between such groups and the rest of the
population. In some instances the Congress has given
great sweep to agencies in some fields. Even special
courts have been created, such as the Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals. When Congress has created these
administrative agencies and special courts, it has carefully outlined their powers, provided stated protections
for individual rights, and has furnished neutral officials.
But here, although none of these protections have been
proVided, the Court finds an underlying purpose in Congress to abolish, without discussion, judicial jurisdiction.
When an administrative body varies so markedly from
the kind which experience has shown may safely be given
final power over people's rights, it should not be assumed
that Congress intended the primary jurisdiction of the
Board to be exclusive. A more definite expression is required. The decision of the Court places it in a dilemma
23 See Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement ('o., 18
How. 272, 284; Ng Fang Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
REED, J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

of its own creation-it must in the future build up a complex system of review, or it must say that Congress intended to leave the rights of many individuals and organizations to the unreviewable discretion of a privately
selected board. By giving effect to the plain words of the
statute which confer on the Board a jurisdiction only
concurrent with the courts, we should avoid the necessity
for judicial legislation in unexplored areas of the law. If
unseemly results should follow, the legislative body would
have the facilities to undertake the important and extensive task of deciding what should be the proper distribution of authority between courts and administrative bodies
in connection with railroad labor relations. Courts should
await specific legislative direction instead of reading into
a statute a purpose to transfer jurisdiction from state
courts to a federal board.

