AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.

827

Syllabus.

AUTOMATIC RADIO MANUFACTURING CO., INC.
v. HAZELTINE RESEARCH, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST

No., 455.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 5, 1950.-Decided June 5, 1950.

Petitioner, a manufacturer of radio broadcasting receivers, entered
into a licensifg agreement with respondent, a radio research organization, whereby, for royalties amounting to a small percentage
of petitioner's selling price of complete radio broadcasting receivers,
petitioner obtained permission to use in the manufacture of its
"home products" any or all of 570 patents which respondent held
and any others to which it might acquire rights. Respondont is
not a manufacturer but derives its income from licensing its patents; and its policy is to license any and all responsible manufacturers. Under the agreement, petitioner was not obligated to
use any of respondent's patents in the manufacture of its products;
but it was required to pay the royalty, whether it used them or
not. Held:
1. It is not per se a misuse of patents to require the lijvensee to
pay royalties based on a percentage of its sales, even though none
of the patents is used. Pp. 830-834.
(a) On the record in this case, there was nothing to support
petitioner's averment that respondent refused to grant a license
under any one or more of its patents to anyone who refused to
take a license under all, since the affidavit in support thereof was
made upon information and belief and the relevant portion did
not comply with Rule 56 (e) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. P. 831.
(b) There is no indication in this case of a conspiracy to
restrict production of unpatented goods, or any goods, to effectuate
a monopoly. United States v. Gypsum Co., 333 U. S. 364, distinguished. P. 832.
(c) In this case, the royalty provision did not create another
mnnopoly and created no restraint of competition beyond the
fejitmate grant of the patent. P. 833.
(d) The mere accumulation of patents, no matter how many,
is not per se illegal.' P 834.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Counsel for Parties.

339 U. S.

(e) In the circumstances of this case, there being no inherent
extension of the monopoly of the patents, payment of royalties
according to an agreed percentage of the licensee's sales is not
unreasonable. P. 834.
(f) Having obtained by the agreement the privilege of using
any or all of respondent's patents and developments, petitioner
cannot complain because it must pay .royalties whether it uses the
patents or not. P. 834.
2. The question whether the inclusion in the licensing agreement
of a provision requiring petitioner to attach restrictive notices to
the apparatus manufactured by it made the agreement unenforceable is moot, because respondent had waived compliance with this
requirement. Pp. 834-836.
3. There being no showing that the licensing agreement~or the
practices under it were a misuse of patents or contrary to public
policy, petitioner may not, in this suit, challenge the validity of
the licensed patents. P. 836.
176 F. 2d 799, affirmed.

In a suit by the licensor of certain patents, the District
Court sustained the validity of a patent licensing agreement, entered judgment for an accounting and recovery
of royalties, and enjoined petitioner from failing to pay
royalties, to keep records and to render reports during the
life of the agreement. 77 F. Supp. 493. The Court of
Appeals affirmed. 176 F. 2d 799. This Court granted
certiorari. 338 U. S. 942. Affirmed, p. 836.
Floyd H. Crews argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were George K. Woodworth and Morris
Relson.
Philip F. LaFollette and Laurence B. Dodds argued the
cause for respondent. With them on the brief were Miles
D. Pillars and Leonard A. Watson.
Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General
Bergson, John C. Stedman, Wilbur L. Fugate and J. Roger

Wollenberg filed a brief for the United States, as amicus
curiae, urging reversal.

AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.
827

829

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MINTON delivered the op'imion of the Court.

This is a suit by respondent Hazeltine Research, Inc.,
as assignee of the licensor's interest in a nonexclusive
patent license agreement covering a group of 570 patents
and 200 applications, against petitioner Automatic Radio
Manufacturing Company, Inc., the licensee, to recover
royalties. The patents and applications are related to
the manufacture of radio broadcasting apparatus. Respondent and its corporate affiliate and predecessor have
for some twenty years been engaged in research, development, engineering design and testing and consulting
services in the radio field. Respondent derives income
from the licensing of its patents, its policy being to license
any and all responsible manufacturers of radio apparatus
at a royalty rate which for many years has been approximately one percent. Petitioner manufactures radio apparatus, particularly radio broadcasting receivers.
The license agreement in issue, which appears to be a
standard Hazeltine license, was entered into by the parties
in September 1942, for a term of ten years. By its terms
petitioner acquired permission to use, in the manufacture
of its "home" products, any or all of the patents which respondent held or to which it might acquire rights. Petitioner was not, however, obligated to use respondent's
patents in the manufacture of its products. For this
license, petitioner agreed to pay respondent's assignor
royalties based upon a small percentage of petitioner's
selling price of complete radio broadcasting receivers, and
in any event a minimum of $10,000 per year. It further
agreed to keep a record of its sales and to make monthly
reports thereof.
This suit was brought to recover the minimum royalty
due for the year ending August 31, 1946, for an accounting of other sums due, and for other relief. Petitioner
answered and both parties filed motions for summary

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinioii of the Court.

339 U. S.

judgment and affidavits in support of the motions. The
District Court found the case to be one appropriate for
summary procedure under Rule 56 of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, and sustained the motion of respondent for judgment. The validity of the license agreement
was upheld against various charges of misuse of the patents, and judgment was entered for the recovery of royalties and an accounting, and for a permanent injunction
restraining petitioner from failing to pay royalties, to keep
records, and to render reports during the life of the agreement. 77 F. Supp. 493. The Court of Appeals affirmed,
one judge dissenting (176 F. 2d 799), and we granted
certiorari (338 U. S. 942) in order to consider important
questions concerning patent misuse and estoppel to challenge the validity of licensed patents.
The questions for determination are whether a misuse of patents has been shown, and whether petitioner
may contest the validity of the licensed patents, in
order to avoid its obligation to pay royalties under the
agreement.
First. It is insisted that the license agreement cannot be enforced because it is a misuse of patents to require the licensee to pay royalties based on its sales, even
though none of the patents are used. Petitioner directs
our attention to the "Tie-in" cases. These cases have
condemned schemes requiring the purchase of unpatented
goods for use with patented apparatus or processes,' pro' International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392; Mercoid
Corp. v. Minneapolis-Honeywell Co., 320 U. S. 680; Mercoid Corp.
v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661; B. B. Chemical
Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S. 495; Morton Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314
U. S. 488; Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S. 436;
Leitch Manufacturing Co. v. Barber Co., 302 U. S. 458; International
Business Machines Corp. v. United States, 298 U. S. 131; Carbice
Corp. v. American Patents Development Corp., 283 U. S. 27; United
Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451; Motion Picture
Patents Co. v. Universal Film Manufacturing Co., 243 U. S. 502.

AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.
827

831

Opinion of the Court.

hibiting production or sale of competing goods, 2 and conditioning the granting of a license under one patent upon
the acceptance of another and different license.' Petitioner apparently concedes that these cases do not, on
their facts, control the instant situation. It is obvious
that they do not. There is present here no requirement
for the purchase of any goods. Hazeltine does not even
manufacture or sell goods; it is engaged solely in research
activities. Nor is there any prohibition as to the licensee's manufacture or sale of any type of apparatus. The
fact that the license agreement covers only "home" apparatus does not mean that the licensee is prohibited
from manufacturing or selling other apparatus. And
finally, there is no conditioning of the license grant upon
the acceptance of another and different license. We are
aware that petitioner asserted in its countermotion for
summary judgment in the District Court that Hazeltine
refused to grant a license under any one or more of its
patents to anyone who refused to take a license under all.
This averment was elaborated in the affidavit of petitioner's attorney in support of the motion. The point
was not pressed in the Court of Appeals or here. In any
event there is nothing available in the record to support
the averment, since the affidavit in support thereof was
made upon information and belief and the relevant portion, at least, does not comply with Rule 56 (e) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.'
2 United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United.States, 258 U. S. 451;
National Lockwasher Co. v. Garrett Co., 137 F. 2d 255; Radio Corp.
v. Lord, 28 F.-2d 257.
3 United States v. Paramount Pictures, 334 U. S. 131.
(Copyright
"block-booking.")

4,"FORM

OF AFFIDAVITS;

FURTHER TESTIMONY.

Supporting and

opposing affidavits shall be made on personal knowledge, shall
set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, and
shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to
the matters stated therein. . . ." Fed. Rules Civ. Proc., 56 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

But petitioner urges that this case "is identical in principle" with the "Tie-in" cases. It is contended that the
licensing provision requiring royalty payments of a percentage of the sales of the licensee's products constitutes
a misuse of patents because it ties in a payment on unpatented goods. Particular reliance is placed on language
from United States v. U. S. Gypsum Co., 333 U. S. 364,
389, 400.' That case was a prosecution under the Sherman Act for an alleged conspiracy of Gypsum and its licensees to extend the monopoly of certain patents and to
eliminate competition by fixing prices on patented and
unpatented gypsum board. The license provisions based
royalties on all sales of gypsum board, both patented and
unpatented. It was held that the license provisions, together with evidence of an understanding that only patented board would be sold, showed a conspiracy to restrict
the production of unpatented products which was an invalid extension of the aroa of the patent monopoly. 333
U. S. at 397. There is no indication here of conspiracy
to restrict production of unpatented or any goods to effectuate a monopoly, and thus the Gypsum case does not
aid petitioner. That which is condemned as against public policy by the "Tie-in" cases is the extension of the
monopoly of the patent to create another monopoly or
restraint of competition-a restraint not countenanced by
the patent grant. See, e. g., Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661, 665-666; Morton
Salt Co. v. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S.488; Ethyl Gasoline
Corp. v. United States, 309 U. S.436, 456. The principle
of those cases cannot be contorted to circumscribe the
5,,... the royalty was to be measured by a percentage of the
value of all gypsum products, patented or unpatented . . . ." 333
U. S. at 389. "Patents grant no privilege to their owners of organizing the use of those patents to monopolize an industry through price
control, through royalties for the patents drawn from patent-free
industry products and through regulation of distribution." 333 U. S.
at 400.

AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.

833

Opinion of the Court.

827

instant situation. This royalty provision does not create
another monopoly; it creates no restraint of competition
beyond the legitimate grant of the patent. The right to
a patent includes the right to market the use of the patent
at a reasonable return. -See 46 Stat. 376, 35 U. S. C. ยง 40;
Hartford-EmpireCa. v. United States, 323 U. S. 386, 417,
324 U. S. 570, 574.
The licensing agreement in issue was characterized by
the District Court as essentially a grant by Hazeltine to
petitioner of a privilege to use any patent or future development of Hazeltine in consideratiQn of the payment of
royalties. Payment for the privilege is required regardless of use of the patents." The royalty provision of the
licensing agreement was sustained by the District Court
and the Court of Appeals on the theory that it was a convenient mode of operation designed by the parties to avoid
the necessity of determining whether each type of petitioner's product embodies any of the numerous Hazeltine
patents. 77 F. Supp. at 496. The Court of Appeals
reasoned that since it would not be un]awful to agree to
pay a fixed sum for the privilege to use patents, it was not
unlawful to provide a variable consideration measured by
a percentage of the licensee's sales for the same privilege.
176 F. 2d at 804. Numerous District Courts which
have had occasion to pass on the question have reached
the same result on similar grounds,' and we are of like
opinion.
6 In this view of the contract we need not concern ourselves with
the controversy between counsel as to whether the transcript shows
a factual dispute over the use or non-use of Hazeltine patents by
petitioner in its products.
7 Hazeltine Research v. Admiral Corp., 87 F. Supp. 72, 79; H-P-M
Development Corp. v. Watson-Stillman Co., 71 F.. Supp. 906, 912;
American Optical Co. v. New Jersey Optical Co., 58 F. Supp. 601,
606; Ohio Citizens Trust Co. v. Air-Way Electric Appliance Corp.,
56 F. Supp. 1010, 1012; Cf. Pyrene Mfg. Co. v. Urquhart,69 F. Supp.
555, 560; International Carbonic Engineering Co. v. Natural Car874433 0-----57

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

The mere accumulation of patents, no matter how many,
is not in and of itself illegal. See Transparent-WrapMachine Corp. v. Stokes & Smith Co., 329 U. S. 637. And
this record simply does not support incendiary, yet vague,
charges that respondent uses its accumulation of patents
"for the exaction of tribute" and collects royalties "by
means of the'overpowering threat of disastrous litigation."
We cannot say that payment of royalties according to an
agreed percentage of the licensee's sales is unreasonable.
Sound business judgment could indicate that such payment represents the most convenient method of fixing the
business value of the privileges granted by the licensing
agreement. We are not unmindful that convenience cannot justify an extension of the monopoly of .the patent.
See, e. g., Mercoid Corp.v. Mid-ContinentInvestment Co.,
320 U. S. 661, 666; B. B. Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S.
495, 498. But as we have already indicated, there is in
this royalty provision no inherent extension of the
monopoly of the patent. Petitioner cannot complain
because it must pay royalties whether it uses Hazeltine
patents or not. What it acquired by the agreement into
which it entered was the privilege to use any or all of the
patents and developments as it desired to use them. If it
chooses to use none of th m, it has nevertheless contracted
to pay for the privilege o using existing patents plus any
developments resulting fr m respondent's continuous research. We hold that in 'censing the use of patents to
one engaged in a related nterprise, it is not per se a
misuse of patents to me ure the consideration by a
percentage of the licensee's sales.
Second. It is next contended by petitioner that the
license agreement is unenforceable because it contained a
provision requiring the following restrictive notice to be
bonic Products, 57 F. Supp. 248, 251-253, affirmed, 158 F. 2d 285.
At least one state court has reached this result. Hazeltine Research
v. De Wald Radio Corp., 84 N. Y. S. 2d 597, 603.

AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.
827

835

Opinion of the Court.

attached to apparatus manufactured by petitioner under
the agreement;
"'Licensed by Hazeltine Cotporation only for use in
homes, for educational purposes, and for private,
non-commercial use, under one or more of the following patents and under pending applications:'
followed by the word 'Patent' and the numbers of the
patents which are, in the opinion of Licensor, involved
in apparatus of the types licensed hereunder manufactured by one or more licensees of Licensor."
Respondent did not seek to have this provision of the
agreement enforced, and the decree of the District Court
does not enforce it. It may well have been a dead letter
from the beginning, as indicated by the fact that, as petitioner averred in its answer, it has never observed this
provision of the agreement. Thus it is doubtful that the
legality of this provision could be contested, even assuming that the issue was properly raised, which respondent
disputes. In any event, it is clear that any issue with
respect to this provision of the agreement is moot. An
affidavit of the president of respondent corporation advises us of certain letters which were sent by respondent
in September 1945, to each of its licensees, including petitioner. These letters authorized the discontinuance of
the restrictive notice, provision and the substitution of
the marking
"This apparatus is licensed under the United States
patent rights of HAZELTINE CORPORATION."
It is further averred that this form of notice is all that
respondent has required of its licensees since September
1945' Since this provision of the agreemenT-was mde
for the benefit of respondent, it could voluntarilk,<aive
the -provision. Westinghouse Electric Corp. v. Bulldog
Electric Products Co., 179 F. 2d 139, 145, 146. Thus the
question of the legality of the original restrictive notice

836

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

provision is not before us. Cf. Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 283 U. S. 163, 181-182.
Third. Finally, it is contended that notwithstanding the
licensing agreement, petitioner-licensee may contest the
validity of the patents it is charged with using. The
general rule is that the licensee under a patent license
agreement may not challenge the validity of the licensed
patent in a suit for royalties due under the contract.
United States v. Harvey Steel Co., 196 U. S. 310. The
general principle of the invalidity of price-fixing agreements may be invoked by the licensee of what purport
to be valid patents to show in a suit for royalties that
the patents are invalid. Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Metallic Mfg. Co., 329 U. S. 394; MacGregor v. Westinghouse
Elec. & Mfg. Co., 329 U. S. 402. There is no showing that
the licensing agreement here or the practices under it were
a misuse of patents or contrary to public policy. This
limited license for "home" use production contains neither
an express nor implied agreement to refrain from production for "commercial" or any other use as part consideration for the license grant. The Katzinger and MacGregor cases are inapplicable. The general rule applies,
and petitioner may not, in this suit, challenge the validity
of the licensed patents.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Aflfirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
We are, I think, inclined to forget that the power of
Congress to grant patents is circumscribed by the Constitution. The patent power, of all legislative powers,
is .indeed the only one whose purpose is defined. Article

AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.
827

DOUGLAS,

837

J., dissenting.

I, ยง 8 describes the power as one "To promote the Progress
of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times
to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their
respective Writings and Discoveries." This statement of
policy limits the power itself.
The Court in its'long history has at times been more
alive to that policy than at other times. During the last
three decades it has been as devoted to it (if not more so)
than at any time in its history. I think that was due in
large measure to the influence of Mr. Justice Brandeis
and Chief Justice Stone. They were alert to the danger
that business-growing bigger and bigger each decadewould fasten its hold more tightly on the economy through
the cheap spawning of patents and would use one monopoly to beget another through the leverage of key patents.
They followed in the early tradition of those who read
the Constitution to mean that the public interest in patents comes first, reward to the inventor second.'
First. Mr. Justice Brandeis and Chief Justice Stone did
not fashion but they made more secure one important
rule designed to curb the use of patents. It is as follows: One who holds a patent on article A may not license
the use of the patent on condition that B, an unpatented
article, be bought
Such a contract or agreement would
be an extension of the grant of the patent contrary to a
long line of decisions. See Motion Picture Patents Co.
v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502; Carbice Corp. v.
American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Morton Salt Co. v.
Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, 491-92; United States v.
Masonite Corp., 316 U. S. 265, 277, 278; Mercoid Corp
v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 320 U. S. 661, 666;
1See Mr. Justice Story in Pennock v. Dialogue. 2 Pet. 1; Mr.
Justice Daniel in Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322; Mr. Justice Campbell in Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330, 344 (dissenting opinion).
2 See Hamilton, Patents and Free Enterprise, T. N. E. C. Monograph No. 31, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 62-70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

United States v. Gypsum Co., 333 U. S. 364, 389.

For

it would sweep under the patent an article that is unpatented or unpatentable. Each patent owner would
become his own patent office and, by reason of the leverage of the patent, obtain a larger monopoly of the market
than the Constitution or statutes permit.3

That is what is done here. Hazeltine licensed Automatic Radio to use 570 patents and 200 patent applications. Of these Automatic used at most 10. Automatic
Radio was obligated, however, to pay as royalty a percentage of its total sales in certain lines without regard
to whether or not the products sold- were patented or
unpatented. The inevitable result is that the
patentee
received royalties on unpatented products as part of the
price for the use of the patents.
The patent owner has therefore used the patents to
bludgeon his way into a partnership with this licensee,
collecting royalties on unpatented as well as patented
articles.
A plainer extension of a patent by unlawful means
.would be hard to imagine.
Second. Chief Justice Stone wrote for the Court in Sola
Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S. 173, hold3 Mr. Justice Brandeis speaking for the Court in Carbice Corp. v
American Patents Corp., supra, p. 32, said, "If a monopoly could.
be so expanded,'the owner of a patent for a product might conceivably monopolize the commerce in a large part of unpatented materials
used in its manufacture. The owner of a patent for a machine might
thereby secure a partial monopoly on the unpatented supplies consumed in its operation., The owner of a patent for a process might
secure a partial monopoly on the unpatented material employed in
it. The owner of the patent in suit might conceivably secure a
limited monopoly for the supplying not only of solid carbon dioxide,
but also of the ice cream and other foods, as well as of the cartons
in which they are shipped. The attempt to limit the licensee to
,the .use of unpatented materials purchased from the licensor is comparable' to the attempt of a patentee to fix the price at which the,
patented article may be resold."

AUTOMATIC RADIO CO. v. HAZELTINE.
827

DOUGLAS,

839

J., dissenting.

ing that a licensee is not estopped to challenge a pricefixing clause by showing the patent is invalid. And see
Katzinger Co. v. Chicago Mfg.-Co., 329 U. S. 394; MacGregor v. Westinghouse Co., 329 U. S. 402. He also
wrote for the Court in Scott Paper Co. v. Marcalus Co.,
326 U. S. 249, holding that estoppel did not bar the assignor of a patent from defending a suit for infringement
of the assigned patent on the -ground that the alleged
infringing device was that of a prior-art expired patent.4
These decisions put the protection of the public interest in free enterprise above reward to the patentee.
The limitations which they made on the estoppel doctrine
represented an almost complete cycle back to the salutary
teaching of Pope Mfg. Co. v. Gormully, 144 U. S. 224,
234, that, "It is as important to the public that competition should not be repressed by worthless patents, as that
the patentee of a really valuable invention should. be
protected in his monopoly." To estop the licensee from
attacking the validity of patents is to forget that "It is
the public interest which is dominant in the patent
system." Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment
Co., supra,at 665.
It is said that if the purpose was to enlarge the monopoly of the patent-for example, through price fixingthen estoppel would not bar the licensee from challenging
the validity of the patents. But what worse enlargement
of monopoly is there than the attachment of a patent
to an unpatentable article? When we consider the constitutional standard, what greater public harm than that
is there in the patent system?
4 In this case Chief Justice Stone emphasized the public interest
at stake in allowing the challenge to the patent (326 U. S. p. 256):
"By the force of the patent laws not only is the invention of P patcnt
dedicated to the public upon its expiration, but the public thereby
becomes entitled to share in the good will which the patentee has
built up in the patented article or product through the enjoyment of
his patent monopoly."

840

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

339 U. S.

It is only right and just that the licensee be allowed
to challenge the validity of the patents. A great pooling
of patents is made; and whole industries are knit together
in the fashion of the unholy alliances revealed in United
States v. Line Material Co., 333 U. S. 287; and United
States v. Gypsum Co., 333 U. S. 364.- One who wants
the use of one patent may have to take hundreds. The
whole package may contain many patents that have been
foisted on the public. No other person than the licensee
will be interested enough to challenge them. He alone
will be apt to see and understand the basis of their
illegality.
The licensee protects the public interest in exposing
invalid or expired patents and freeing the public of their
toll. He should be allowed that privilege. He would
be allowed it were the public interest considered the
dominant one. Ridding the public of stale or specious
patents is one way of serving the end of the progress of
science.
We depart from a great tradition in this field (and
see Graver Tank & Mfg. Co. v. Linde Air Products, 339
U. S. 605) when we affirm this judgment.

