OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
dissenting.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
If "participation" means cobperation in the transportation, more than is involved in presence on the transporting
vehicle with the knowledge that an explosive is being.
carried, I can perceive no ground for saying that there was
participation here. That deceased had made the journey
to deliver the caps and, as a "business invitee," had
a right to return on the vehicle on which he had placed
it, seems to me as irrelevant as though the deceased had.
embarked as a passenger on a railroad train on which
the explosion occurred after he or his firm had shipped
dynamite upon it. By the terms of the policy, participation, to exclude liability, must be at the time of the injury.
After the return journey began, deceased did nothing to
facilitate the transportation. He neither controlled nor
had the right to control it. He was merely present. The
distinction drawn between this case and that of mere
presence, so difficult of statement and application, appears
to me to obscure rather than to define the meaning of the
term and to violate the cardinal principle that, so far as
their language reasonably admits, insurance contracts are
to be interpreted most favorably to the insured.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

CHASSANIOL v. CITY OF GREENWOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT .OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 428. Argued February 6, 1934.-Decided March 12, 1934.
The business of buying and selling cotton locally produced, processed
and warehoused, is local in character; and a local occupation tax
upon the buyer does not contravene the Commerce Clause, although
the course of the business be such that all of the cotton so bought is

CHASSANIOL v. GREENWOOD.
584

Opinion of the Court.

ultimately shipped by the buyer in interstate or foreign commerce.
FederalCompress & Warehouse Co. v. McLean, ante, p. 17. P. 586.
166 Miss. 848; 148 So. 781, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment of a Circuit
Court of Mississippi, which sustained on appeal an order
of the City Council of Greenwood refusing a refund of
taxes.
Mr. Edward W. Smith, with whom Messrs. Sam C.
Cook, Marcellus Green, and Garner W. Green were on the
brief, for appellant.
Messrs. J. A. Lauderdale and A. H. Bell, with whom
Mr. J. A. Tyson was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The City of Greenwood, Mississippi, laid by ordinance,
in 1931 and in 1932, a tax "upon every person engaged in
the business of buying or selling cotton for himse f " within the city. In each year a tax of $50 was assessed to
Chassaniol. He paid it under protest; and duly applied
for refund to the City Council, claiming that the tax was
illegal, and that the ordinances and the statutes authorizing it as construed and applied were void, because they
violate the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
The City Cooncil refused the refund. Its action in denying this claim under the Constitution was sustained by
both the Circuit Court of Leflore County and by the Supreme Court of the State, 166 Miss. 848; 148 So. 781.
Whether they erred in so holding is the only question
presented for decision by this appeal.
Greenwood is a concentration point for long staple cotton and an active market for its purchase and sale. All
of the cotton there dealt in is grown and ginned in Mississippi. It reaches the Greenwood warehouses, about 70
per cent. by rail, the rest by automobile, truck, or wagon.
There, it is compressed substantially as described in Federal Compress & Warehouse Co. v. McLean, ante, p. 17.

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Purchases and sales are made upon the market by transfer and delivery of receipts issued by the local warehouses
under the United States Warehouse Act. The prices are
governed largely by transactions on the cotton exchanges
of New York, Chicago, New Orleans and Liverpool.
There are at Greenwood about 25 cotton buyers, each
of whom, like Chassaniol, purchases and sells cotton for
himself. The buyer becomes the absolute owner. He
makes the profit or bears the loss. But when he buys he
customarily has in hand and in mind orders or contracts
for that particular grade, for immediate or future delivery
in other states or countries to the extent of about 90 per
cent., on the average, of all cotton purchased by him. The
remaining 10 per cent., he buys because, as often happens,
growers of cotton refuse to sell less than their whole lot;
and the lot may include a quantity greater than, or some
bales of a grade different from, that for which the buyer
has orders or contracts. The surpluses so bought are called
"overs." Sometimes the "over" is held by the buyer
until he gets an order or contract on which it can be
placed. Sometimes the " over" is sold to another buyer
at Greenwood. And some of the cotton bought as an
"over " changes ownership several times within the State.
But eventually the "overs," like the rest of the cotton,
are shipped in interstate or foreign commerce.
Chassaniol contends that all the cotton is in interstate
or foreign commerce from the moment it leaves the gin for
Greenwood, or at least from the moment it is purchased
at Gfeenwood by the buyer. The argument is that already at that time the cotton is destined for ultimate shipment to some other state or country; and that to tax the
occupation of the cotton buyer burdens interstate commerce, since the buyer at Gieenwood is the instrumentality by which the interstate transaction is initiated. The
business involved is substantially like that described in

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
584

587

Syllabus.

Federal Compress Co. v. McLean; and the rule there declared must govern here. Ginning cotton, transporting it
to Greenwood, and warehousing, buying and compressing
it there, are eachlike the growing of it, steps in preparalion for the sale and shipment in interstate or foreign commerce. But each step prior to the sale and shipment is a
transaction local to Mississippi, a transaction in intrastate
commerce. Hence those engaged in performing any such
local function may be subjected to an occupation tax, just
as the property used, or processed, by them may be subjected to a property tax.
There is nothing in Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U.S. 282 or in Lemke v. Farmers Grain
Co., 258 U.S. 50, inconsistent with this conclusion. The
regulations involved in those cases were found to impose
a direct burden upon interstate commerce itself. Stafford
v. Wallace, 258 U.S. 495, is also in harmony with the rule
here applied. See Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U.S. 1, 7-8.
Affirmed.

ARROW-HART & HEGEMAN ELECTRIC CO. v.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 363.

Argued February 8, 1934.-Decided March 12, 1934.

After commencement of a proceeding by the Federal Trade Commission to compel a holding company to divest itself of the voting
stock of two competing operating companies, held by it in alleged
violation of the Clayton Act, a reorganization was brought about
through united participation of the owners of the holding company's shares and of the preferred stock of the operating companies, which the holding company never owned, whereby all the
properties of the operating companies were acquired, through
mergers, by a new corporation and the holding company was
completely dissolved, pursuant to the state law.

