BROWN v. HELVERING.
192

Syllabus.

The Solicitor General says-" The question is identical
with that raised in Helvering v. Falk, No. 225, October
Term, 1933, and the argument made in the Government's
brief in that case is likewise applicable here. . . . There
is therefore substantially no difference between the position of the beneficiaries in this case and the Falk case."
The judgments below are affirmed upon authority of
Helvering v. Falk, decided this day, ante, p. 183.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

MR. JUSTICE STONE, and MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO think that these cases are to be distinguished from No. 225, Helvering v. Falk, just decided,
because of the nature 6f the duties imposed upon the
trustees, and of the remainder interest granted to the
beneficiaries by the trust instrument presently involved,
and accordingly concur in the result.
BROWN v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH DISTRICT.

No. 187.

Argued December 13, 14, 1933.-Decided January 15, 1934.

A general agent of fire insurance companies received "overriding
commissions" on the business written each year, subject however
to the contingent liability that when any of the policies was canceled before its term had run, a part of the commission thereon,
proportionate to the premium money repaid the policyholder,
must be charged against the agent in favor of the company. In
his accounts and income tax returns involved in this case, he
deducted from the accrued commissions of each year a sum entered in a reserve account to represent that part of them which,
according to the experience of earlier years, would be returnable
because of cancellations. Held:

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

1. That the deductions were tt " expcnises paid or incurred"
in the taxable years. Section 214, Revenue Acts of 1921, 1924,
and 1926. P. 198.
2. Although a liability accrued may be treated as an expense
incurred, a contingent liability is not an accrued liability unless so
designated specifically by statute. P. 200.
3. The reserve set up is not akin to the reserves rcquire(l of
insurance companies, nor is it to be classed with the reserves
voluntarily established as a matter of conservative accounting
which are specifically authorized by the Revenue Acts. P. 201.
4. Under § 212 (b), it was within the discretion of the Commissioner to require the taxpayer to adhere to a method of accounting
previously used in the business--deduction of the return commissions accrued during the tax year from the " overriding commissions" accrued during that year,--if in the Commissioner's opinion
the older method would more clearly reflect the net income. P. 202.
5. It was likewise within the province of the Commissioner to
reject an alternative method proposed by the taxpayer, viz, a
prorating of the overriding commissions over the lives of the policies
and deduction of return commissions as they accrued. P. 203.
63 F. (2d) 66, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 607, to review the affirmance, on

appeal, of an order of the Board of Tax Appeals (22 B.T.A.
678), sustaining three deficiency assessments of income
taxes.

Mr. Arthur B. Dunne, with whom Mr. Lloyd A.

Rob-

bins'was on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Messrs. Sewall Key,
J. P. Jackson, and H. Brian Holland were on the brief, for

respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An unincorporated concern known as Edward Brown &
Sons, of San Francisco, has since 1896 acted as Pacific

BROWN v. HELVERING.
193

195

Opinion of the Court.

Coast General Agent for fire insurance companies.' In
1923, Arthur 1. Brown conducted the concern alone. In
1925 and 1926, he and his son Arthur M. Brown, Jr. conducted it as partners. The general agent receives as compensation from its principals, among other things, a socalled " overriding commission " on the net premiums derived from business written through the local agents.
The question for decision is, how the income of the petitioner, Arthur M. Brown, derived from overriding commissions during the years 1923, 1925 and 1926 should be calculated for purposes of the federal income tax. The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue held that in determining income, the gross overriding commissions on business
written during the year should not be subjected to any
deduction on account of cancellations expected to occur in
later years. The taxpayer contends that either the gross
overriding commissions should be subjected to such a deduction or that parts of the gross overriding commissions
should be allocated as earnings of future years.
1The duties required
of and performed by the general agent are
described by the Board of Tax Appeals as follows [22 B.T.A. 681]:
"The firm appointed and removed local agents; accepted service of
process; adjusted losses under policies; received and acknowledged
service of proof of loss; issued, countersigned and canceled policies;
received and receipted for premiums, surveyed all risks offered and
accepted or rejected the same; represented its principals on the Pacific Board of Fire Underwriters; computed and paid commissions due
local agents; ceded or reinsured certain lines of business with treaty
or other companies; computed and paid return premiums on canceled
policies; secured return of premium on canceled reinsurance; rendered
all reports required of its principals by the authorities of political subdivisions in the territory in which it operated; attended to the payment of all license fees and taxes; furnished all necessary printed matter, except policy blanks, to local agents; transferred insurance by
endorsement, determined whether its principals should participate in
special pools; and generally attended to all the affairs of its principals
in the territory in which it uperated."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

The term net premium as used in providing for overriding conunissions, means the gross premium on the business written less the return premium and the net cost of
any reinsurance. Fire insurance policies are written for
periods of one, three or five years, with the right of cancellation by either party at stipulated rates of premium
return. Premiums being payable in advance (subject to
the 60 day grace period), a return premium is paid to the
policyholder in case of cancellation; and the general
agent who receives the premium pays the return premium. The company writing a policy frequently reinsures in another company a part of its contingent liability; and the general agent, who makes the payments
for reinsurance, receives, in case of cancellation, a return
of a proportionate part of the cost of the cancelled reinsurance. The general agent makes to each principal remittances on monthly balances, crediting itself among
other things, with -the overriding commissions on premiums receivable, with the return premiums paid and
with the net amount paid for reinsurance; and charging
itself, among other things, with a proportionate part of
any overriding commissions previously credited in respect
of any business which has been cancelled during the
month. Thus, whenever there is a cancellation and a
return or credit of a portion of the premium and of the
cost of any reinsurance, the general agent returns to the
company or charges itself with a corresponding portion
of the overriding commission.
Prior to 1923, overriding commissions on new business
were accounted income of the year in which the business
was written; and refunds of overriding commission on
account of cancellations were accounted expenses of the
year of cancellation. The 'books of the general agent
have at all times been kept on the accrual basis. Although no change was made in the method of accounting
between the general agent and its principals, there was

BROWN v. HELVERING.
193

Opinion of the Court.

set up on the books of the concern at the close of 1923,
for the first time, a liability account entitled "Return
Commission." In it was recorded an estimate of the liability expected to arise out of the general agent's obligations to refund to the companies a proportionate part of
the overriding commission received because of cancellations which it was expected would occur in future years.
The estimate was based on the experience of the preceding five years. Thus, on the books, the year's income
from overriding commissions was reduced by the amount
of refunds which, it was estimated, would have to be
made in future years. This changed method of accounting has been followed ever since; and the difference in
the method of calculating the general agent's income has
been reflected in the returns made by Brown of his taxable income.
The ratio of cancellations to premiums receivable having been 22.38 per cent. for the five years ending in 1923,
the gross income.from overriding commissions on business
written in 1923, amounting to $236,693.31, was subjected
on the books to a deduction of $52,971.96; and this
amount was credited to the "Return Commission " account. Similarly, at the close of each of the years 1924,
1925 and 1926 the credit balance in the "Return Commission" account was adjusted so that it bore the same
relation to the overriding commissions on business written
during the year as the total fire insurance premiums cancelled in the preceding five-year period bore to the gross
premiums on business written during those years. The
ratio of cancellations for the five years ending in 1925
having been 21.55 per cent., and the total overriding
commissions $244,597.88, a deduction of $3,292.98 was
made, representing the net addition to the "Return
Commission "account in 1925. The ratio of cancellations
to premiums for the five-year period ending in 1926 having been 21.13 per cent., and the total overriding com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

missions $258,677.57, a deduction was made of $1,947.77
representing the net addition to the "Return Commission" account in 1926.2
In making his federal income tax return for the year
1923, 1925 and 1926, Brown claimed as deductions the
benefit of the credits so made to the "Return Commission" account. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue
disallowed these deductions; and accordingly assessed to
Brown for 1923 a deficiency of $17,923.03; for 1925 a
deficiency of $1,520.19; and for 1926 a deficiency of
$944.30.' The Commissioner's determinations were sustained by the Board of Tax Appeals, 22 B.T.A. 678; and
its order was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
63 F. (2d) 66. Certiorari was granted by this Court
because of alleged conflict with the decision of Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in VirginiaLincoln Furniture Corp. v. Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, 56 F. (2d) 1028, and other cases.
First. The Commissioner properly disallowed the deductions on account of the credits to the "Return ComFor the year 1923, the deduction of $52,971.96, the entire amount
set up as a reserve, is in dispute. Similar figures were set up for the
years 1924, 1925, and 1926; but actual cancellations for each of these
later years were charged not against overriding commissions, but
against the return commission account as set up and carried over from
the preceding year. Thus the amount in dispute for each of the
years 1925 and 1926 is not the entire deduction from overriding commissions as made by the general agent, but the difference between that,
figure and the amounts charged to the "Return Commission" account; or, in other words, the net adjustment or addition to the
account. (There was no addition for 1924.)
Judge Wilbur concurred specially below taking the ground, among
others, that the result of.this method was a claim in 1923 for deductions both of the entire reserve and of actual cancellations during the
year.
'The amount of the deficiency for each year was affected by an
additional claim as a deduction of $3,000 which was disallowed. It is
not here in question.

BROWN v. HELVERING.
193

Opinion of the Court.

mission" account. Under the Revenue Acts taxable income is computed for annual periods. If the accounts are
kept on the accrual basis the income is to be accounted for
in the year in which it is realized even if not then actually
received; and the deductions are to be taken in the year in
which the deductible items are incurred. What is taxable
as income is provided by the Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136,
42 Stat. 227, 237, 239.' Section 212 (a) declares " That
in the case of an individual the term 'net income' means
the gross income as defined in section 213, less the deductions allowed by section 214." Section 214 (a) declares
" That in computing net income there shall be allowed as
deductions: (1) All the ordinary and necessary expenses
paid or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on
any trade or business." The only relevant deductions
allowable by law are those provided for in § 214; and the
burden rests upon the taxpayer to show that he was entitled to the deduction claimed. Reinecke v. Spalding,
280 U.S. 227, 232.
The overriding commissions were gross income of the
year in which they were reteivable. As to each such commission there arose the obligation-a contingent liability-to return a proportionate part in case of cancellation.
But the mere fact that some portion of it might have to
be refunded in some future year in the event of cancella,
tion or reinsurance did not affect its quality as income.
Compare American National Co. v. United States, 274
U.S. 99. When received, the general agent's right to it
was absolute. It was under no restriction, contractual or
otherwise, as to its disposition, use or enjoyment. Compare North American Oil Consolidatedv. Burnet, 286 U.S.
'Sections 212, 213 and .214 of the Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234,
43 Stat. 253, 267-270, and the corresponding sections of the Revenue
Act of 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 23-27, contain provisions identical with
those quoted above, except that § 206 of those acts is also referred to
as defining deductions.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

417, 424.' The refunds during the tax year of those portions of the overriding commissions which represented
cancellations during the tax year had, prior to the tax
return for 1923, always been claimed as deductions; and
they were apparently allowed as "necessary expenses paid
or incurred during the taxable year." The right to such
deductions is not now questioned. Those which the taxpayer claims now are of a very different character. They
are obviously not "expenses paid during the taxable year."
They are bookkeeping charges representing credits to a
reserve account.
These charges on account of credits to the "Return
Commission " reserve account are claimed as deductions
on the ground that they are expenses "incurred," "during the taxable year." It is true that where a liability
has " accrued during the taxable year" it may be treated
as an expense incurred; and hence as the basis for a deduction, although payment is not presently due, United
States v. Anderson, 269 U.S. 422, 440, 441; American
National Co. v. United States, 274 U.S. 99; Aluminum
Castings Co. v. Routzahn, 282 U.S. 92; and although the
amount of the liability has not been definitely ascertained.
United States v. Anderson, supra.6 Compare Continental Tie & Lumber Co. v. United States, 286 U.S. 290,
296. But no liability accrues during the taxable year
on account of cancellations which it is expected may occur in future years, since the. events necessary to create
the liability do not occur during the taxable year. Except
as otherwise specifically provided by statute, a liability
does not accrue as long as it remains contingent. Weiss v.
Wiener, 279 U.S. 333, 335; Lucas v. American Code Co.,
280 U.S. 445, 450, 452; compare New York Life Ins. Co.
'See also Vang v. Lewellyn, 35 F. (2d) 283.
'See also Uncasville Mfg. Co. v. Commissioner, 55 F. (2d) 893, 895;
Ocean Accident & Guarantee Corp. v. Commissioner, 47 F. (2d) 582.
Compare Commissioner v,Old Dominion S.S. Co., 47 F. (2d) 148.

BROWN v. HELVERING.
193

Opinion of the Court.

v. Edwards,271 U.S. 109, 116; Ewing Thomas Co. v. McCaughn, 43 F. (2d) 503; Highland Milk Condensing Co.
v. Phillips,34 F. (2d) 777.
The liability of Edward Brown & Sons arising from
expected future concellations was not deductible from
gross income because it was not fixed and absolute. In
respect to no particular policy written within the year
could it be known that it would be cancelled in a future
year. Nor could it be known that a definite percentage
of all the policies will be cancelled in the future years.
Experience taught that there is a strong probability that
many of the policies written during the taxable year will
be so cancelled. But experience taught also that we are
not dealing here with certainties. This is shown by the
variations in the percentages in the several five-year periods of the aggregate of refunds to the aggregate of overriding commissions.'
Brown argues that since insurance companies are
allowed to deduct reserves for unearned premiums which
may have to be refunded, he should be allowed to make
the deductions claimed as being similar in character. The
simple answer is that the general agent is not an insurance
company; and that the deductions allowed for additions
to the reserves of insurance companies are technical in
character and are specifically provided for in the Revenue
Acts. These technical reserves are required to be made
by the insurance laws of the several States. See Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States, 251 U.S. 342, 350;
United States v. Boston Ins. Co., 269 U.S. 197; New York
Life Ins. Co. v. Edwards, 271 U.S. 109. The "Return
Commission" reserve here in question was voluntarily
established. Only a few reserves voluntarily established
'The taxpayer testified: From my experience in the insurance business, I would say that approximately the general ratio of cancellations to business written, depending on the year, runs between 20%
and 25%

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

as a matter of conservative accounting are authorized by
the Revenue Acts. Section 214 mentions only the reserve for bad debts (in the discretion of the Commissioner), provided for in paragraph 7; those for depreciation and depletion, provided for in paragraphs 8 and 10;
and the special provision concerning future expenses in
connection with casual sales of real property, provided for
in paragraph 11 of § 214 as amended by the Revenue Act
of 1926. 26 U.S.C. § 955. Many reserves set up by prudent business men are not allowable as deductions. See
Lucas v. American Code Co., 280 U.S. 445, 452.8
Brown argues also that the Revenue Acts required him
to make his return "in accordance with the method of
accounting regularly employed in keeping the books ";'
and that in making the deductions based on the credits to
"Return Commission " account, he complied with this
requirement. The Commissioner's oft-quoted '1 instruction of January 8, 1917 (No. 2433, 19 Treas. Dec. Int.
Rev. 5) is relied upon:
"In cases wherein, pursuant to the consistent practice
of accounting of the corporation . . . corporations set up
and maintain reserves to meet liabilities, the amount of
which and the date of payment or maturity of which is
not definitely determined or determinable at the time the
liability is incurred, it will be permissible for the corpora8

Compare Barde Steel Products Corp. v. Commissioner, 40 F. (2d)
412, 416; Spring Canyon Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 43 F. (2d) 78.
'Section 212 (b). The net income shall be computed . . .inaccordance with the method of accounting regularly employed in keeping the
books of such taxpayer; but if . ..the method employed does not
clearly reflect the income, the computation shall be made upon such
basis and in such manner as in the opinion of the Commission does
clearly reflect the income.
10 United States v. Anderson, 269 U.S. 422; American National Co.
v. United States, 274 U.S. 99, 101; Niles Bement Pond Co. v. United
States, 281 U.S. 357, 359; Aluminum Castings Co. v. Routzahn,
282 U.S. 92, 98.

BROWN v. HELVERING.
193

203

Opinion of the Cotrt.

tions to deduct from their gross income the amounts credited to such reserves each year, provided that the amounts
deductible on account of the reserve shall approximate as
nearly as can be determined the actual amounts which experience has demonstrated would be necessary to discharge the liabilities incurred during the year and for the
payment of which additions to the reserves were made."
The accrual method of accounting had been regularly
employed by Edward Brown & Sons before 1923, but no
"Return Commission" account had been set up. Moreover, the method employed by the taxpayer is never conclusive. If in the opinion of the Commissioner it does
not clearly reflect the income, "the computation shall be
made upon such basis and in such manner," as will, in his
opinion, do so. United States v. Anderson, 269 U.S. 422,
439; Lucas v. American Code Co., 280 U.S. 445, 449;
Lucas v. Ox Fibre Brush Co., 281 U.S. 115, 120; compare
Williamsport Wire Rope Co. v. United States, 277 U.S.
551; Lucas v. Structural Steel Co., 281 U.S. 264.1 In
assessing the deficiencies, the Commissioner required in
effect that the taxpayer continue to follow the method of
accounting which had been in use prior to the change
made in 1923. To so require was within his administrative discretion; compare Bent v. Commissioner, 56 F.
(2d) 99.
Second. The Board of Tax Appeals did not err in refusing to allocate to future years part of the overriding commissions on business written during the taxable year.
Brown urges that the overriding commission is compensation for services rendered throughout the life of the policy;'
that the compensation to be rendered in later years cannot be considered as earned until the required services
have been performed; and that the Revenue Acts con" See also IndustrialLumber Co. v. Commissioner, 58 F. (2d) 123;
Jennings v. Commissioner, 59 F. (2d) 32.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

template that where books are kept on the accrual basis,
the income shall be accounted for as it is earned. He suggests, therefore, as an alternative method of ascertaining
the income, that the commissions on each year's writing
be prorated over the life of the policies.
Under this alternative proposal, the practice of making
deductions prevailing prior to 1923 would remain unchanged; but the method of ascertaining the gross income
of the taxable year would be subjected to a far-reaching
change. The proposal is that all policies be deemed to
have been written on July 1; that of the overriding commission on one-year policies, one-half should be returned
as income of the year in which the policy was written,
the other half as income of the next year; that of the commissions on three-year policies, one-sixth should be returned as income of the year in which the policy was written, one-third as the income of each of the next two years
and one-sixth as income of the fourth year; and that the
commission on five-year policies, one-tenth should be returned as income of the first year, one-fifth as income of
each of the next four years, and one-tenth as income of
the sixth year.
This proposed alternative method of computing the income from overriding commissions was not employed by
Edward Brown & Sons either before or after 1923. Moreover, the Board concluded that there "is no proof that
the overriding commissions contain any element of compensation for services to be rendered in future years."
The whole of the overriding connissions has at all times
been treated as income of the year in which the policy
was written. The Commissioner was of opinion that the
method of accounting consistently applied prior to 1923
accurately reflected the income. He was vested with a
wide discretion in deciding whether to permit or to forbid
a change. Compare Bent v. Commissioner,56 F. (2d) 99.
It is not the province of the court to weigh and determine

MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
193

Syllabus.

the relative merits of systems of accounting. Lucas v.
American Code Co., 280 U.S. 445, 449.
The deductions here claimed, not being authorized specifically either by the Revenue Acts, or by any regulation
applying them, were properly disallowed. So far as the
decision in Virginia-Lincoln Furniture Corp. v. Commissioner, 56 F. (2d) 1028, may be inconsistent with this
opinion, it is disapproved.
Affirmed.

MOORE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 173.

Argued January 10, 11, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. The jurisdiction of the District Court is to be determined by the
allegations of the complaint. P. 210.
2. The Federal Employers' Liability Act, in providing that the
employee shall not be held guilty of contributory negligence, nor
to have assumed the risk, in any case under it where violation by
the carrier of "any statute enacted for the safety of employees"
contributed to the injury or death, embraces the Federal Safety
Appliance Acts. P. 210.
3. The Federal Employers' Liability Act and Safety Appliance Acts
are in pari materia; and an action under the former in connection
with the latter may be brought in the federal court of a district
in which the carrier is doing business. P. 211.
4. A state statute prescribing the liability of common carriers for
negligence causing injuries to employees while engaged in intrastate
commerce provided that no employee should be held guilty of
contributory negligence, or to have assumed the risk, in any case
where violation by the carrier "of any statute, state or federal,
enacted for the safety of employees" contributed to the injury.
Held:
(1) That the provisions. of the Federal Safety Appliance Acts
for the safety of employees are in effect read into the state law,
P. 212.

