OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

commanding that the violation cease. There is as much
reason to believe that Congress did not intend to deny
to the Commission the authority to exercise effectively
the granted power, and thus to preserve its jurisdiction
until its function could be executed, as there would be
were similar powers extended to a court of inferior jurisdiction. This is the more evident when it is remembered
that obedience to the Commission's orders cannot be compelled without first subjecting them to the scrutiny
of a court. Recognition of its authority involves
neither departure from accepted principles nor any risk
of abuse.
These considerations demand our rejection of the contention that an offender against the Clayton Act, properly
brought before the Commission and subject to its order,
can evade its authority and defeat the statute by taking
refuge behind a cleverly erected screen of corporate
dummies.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE CARDOZO

MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

and MR.

concur in this opinion.

MASSEY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

SEVENTH

No. 707.

Argued March 5, 1934.-Decided March 12, 1934.

A conviction for conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, but mandate was
stayed to allow application to this Court for writ of certiorari.
Petition for the writ was filed within time, soon after the repeal
of the Eighteenth Amendment had been consummated. Held that
the judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the
District Court with direction to vacate the sentence and dismiss
the indictment,-on the authority of United States v. Chambers,
ante, p. 217.
66 F. (2d) 660, reversed.

MASSEY v. UNITED STATES.
608

Per Curiam.

to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirming a conviction of conspiracy to violate
the National Prohibition Act. The writ of certiorari, at
first denied, post, p. 669, was granted on a petition for
rehearing, post, p. 655.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Edward F. Colladay, with whom Mr. William A.
McClellan was on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Mr. W. Marvin

Smith was on the brief, for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

It appeared, on rehearing, that the petitioner and others
were indicted on March 4, 1932, in the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Indiana for
conspiring to violate the National Prohibition Act; that
the petitioner was found guilty by a jury on May 20, 1932,
and, with others, was sentenced to fine and imprisonment
by a judgment entered in that court on June 3, 1932; that,
on appeal, the judgment, as to the petitioner, was affirmed
by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit on August 7, 1933, and that a petition for
rehearing duly filed by him in that court was denied on
October 10, 1933. It further appeared that on October 11,
1933, the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon consideration of
a motion by the petitioner for a stay of mandate pending
a petition to this Court for writ of certiorari, stayed its
mandate until its further order, and ordered that the petitioner proceed with diligence and promptly file the petition for writ of certiorari in this Court. Petition for writ
of certiorari was filed in this Court on January 6, 1934 and
within the time provided by law.
The Solicitor General appeared on behalf of the Government upon the rehearing and stated his view to be that
this case is controlled by the decision in United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

v. Chambers, ante, p. 217, and that the judgment of the
court below should be reversed.
The Court is of the opinion that it appears from the
record that no final judgment was rendered herein against
the petitioner prior to the ratification of the Twenty-first
Amendment. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, as entered in the cause of this petitioner, is accordingly reversed, and the cause is remanded to the District
Court with direction to vacate that part of its judgment
which sentences this petitioner, and to dismiss the indictment as to him. United States v. Chambers, ante, p. 217.
Reversed.

EX PARTE BALDWIN

ET AL.

PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 19, original.

Argued February 12, 1934.-Decided March 19,
1934.

1. The writ of mandamus will not be issued by this Court at the
instance of a trustee in bankruptcy to compel the District Court
to accept jurisdiction on removal of a suit in a state cburt, brought
against him as such trustee and affecting the title and possession
of property of which he has taken possession as part of the
bankrupt estate. There is an adequate remedy by application to
the court of bankruptcy to enjoin the prosecution of the suit.
P. 614.
2. All property in the possession of a bankrupt of which he claims
the ownership passes, upon the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
into the custody of the court of bankruptcy. P. 615.
3. Where a court of competent jurisdiction has, through its officers,
taken property into its possession, the property is thereby withdrawn from the jurisdiction of other courts, and the court having
possession may not only issue all writs necessary to protect its
possession from physical interference, but is entitled to determine
all questions respecting the same. P. 615.
4. The jurisdiction in such cases is exclusive of the jurisdiction of
other courts although otherwise the controversy would be cognizable
by them. P. 615.

