NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
352

Syllabus.

261. It is relative to many conditions of time and place
and circumstance. The constitution has not ordained
that the forms of business shall be cast in imperishable
moulds. There is no question here of the impairment
of the obligation of a contract by later legislation. The
act assailed by the appellants was in existence for many
years before the bond in suit was written. Principal and
surety in writing it became subject to the statutes then
in force, and by these they must abide.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi is

accordingly

Affirmed.
NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.

No. 13, original.

Argued January 9, 10, 1934.-Decided February
5, 1934.

1. The boundary between Delaware and New Jersey within a circle
of twelve-miles about the town of New Castle, is the low-water
mark of the Delaware River on the East, or New Jersey, side;
and below the circle it is the Thalweg or main channel of navigation
in Delaware River and Delaware Bay. Pp. 363, 385.
2. Delaware's title to the river bed within the circle is derived
as follows:
(1) From a feoffment, describing the Delaware territory within
the circle, including the river, its islands and soil, made by
the Duke of York to William Penn, August 24, 1682, when the
present territory of Delaware, having been taken over from the
Dutch, was governed as a dependency of the Government and
Colony of New York under governors commissioned by the Duke.
P. 364.
(2) Letters patent, March 22, 1682/3, from the Crown, granting to the Duke of York the identical lands and waters described
in the deed of feoffment, and inuring to the feoffee by virtue of
a covenant for further assurance contained in the deed of
feoffment. P. 365.
(3) Confirmation of the title by practically uninterrupted possession of the Delaware territory on the part of Penn and his successors, as Proprietaries and Governors, from the date of the
feoffment to the Revlution. P. 368.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

(4) Succession of the State of Delaware to dominion over the
same territory. P. 370.
3. Early Acts and Resolutions of the legislature of the State of
Delaware attacking the right of the Penns to the vacant and
uncultivated lands within the State and for that purpose declaring that the right of soil was at the date of the Treaty of Paris
in the British Crown and passed by that Treaty to the citizens
of the State, had no effect, either as an estoppel or as a practical
construction, upon the ancient boundaries of the Colony and State
as laid down originally by the letters patent of 1683. P. 371.
4. The letters patent of 1683 were not surrendered. P. 373.
5. The Crown had power to grant away the soil beneath navigable
waters as an incident to a grant or delegation of powers strictly
governmental. P. 373.
6. Acquiescence by Delaware in wharfing out by riparian proprietors
from the New Jersey side, did not affect her sovereign title to
the river bed within the circle. P. 375.
7. Acts of dominion by New Jersey over the river bed beyond the
low-water mark, within the twelve mile circle, such as service of
process, assessments for taxation, the making of deeds, etc., could
not serve to alter the boundary, not having been acquiesced in by
Delaware. P. 376.
8. The compact between New Jersey and Delaware of March, 1905,
relating to riparian rights, service of process, and rights of fishery,
did not affect the boundary. P. 377.
9. When New Jersey and Delaware became independent States, the
title to the soil of the river below the circle and to the soil of
the bay, had not been granted but still was in the Crown of England; and the division of these waters is to be determined by the
principles of international law. P. 378.
10. The modern rule of international law divides boundary rivers
between States by the main channel of navigation, if there is one,
rather than by the geographical center, and applies the same doctrine of equality to estuaries and bays in which the dominant
sailing channel can be followed to the sea. P. 379.
11. The doctrine of Thalweg is applicable between States of the
Union, where the boundary in question has not been fixed in some
other way-as by agreement, practical location, prescription; and
it applies even as between States that existed before the doctrine
became fully established in internationalr law. Pp. 380, 383.
12. Delaware's claim that there is not, or was not in 1783, any definite
channel of navigation down Delaware Bay, and her contention that

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

the geographical center should be made the boundary in the river,
below the circle, to avoid a sharp and inconvenient turn where the
river meets the bay,-are rejected. Pp. 379, 384-385.

Final Hearing on the report of William L. Rawls, Esq.,
Special Master, in a suit to establish the boundary between the two States. Leave was granted to file the bill
of complaint in this case on June 3, 1929 (279 U.S. 825),
and it was filed on June 4, 1929. The defendant's answer
was filed on October 7, 1929, and on January 6, 1930
(280 U.S. 529), the Special Master was appointed and
the case referred to him. His report was filed October
9, 1934, and the cause was argued on exceptions to that
report.
Messrs. Duane E. Minard and George S. Hobart, with
whom Mr. Win. A. Stevens, Attorney General of New
Jersey, was on the brief, for plaintiff.
Mr. Clarence A. Southerland, with whom Mr. Percy
Warren Green, Attorney General of Delaware, and Mr.
Reuben Satterthwaite, Jr., were on the brief, for
defendant.
MR. JUSTICE CADozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Invoking our original jurisdiction, New Jersey brings
Delaware into this court and prays for a determination
of the boundary in Delaware Bay and River.
The controversy divides itself into two branches, distinct from each other in respect of facts and law. The
first branch has to do with the title to the bed or subaqueous soil of the Delaware River within a circle of
twelve miles about the town of New Castle. Delaware
claims to be the owner of the entire bed of the river within
the limits of this circle up to low water mafk on the east
or New Jersey side. New Jersey claims to be the owner

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

up to the middle of the channel. The second branch of
the controvery has to do with the boundary line between
the two states in the river below the circle and in the bay
below the river. In that territory as in the river above,
New Jersey bounds her title by the Thalweg. Delaware
makes the division at the geographical centre, an irregular
line midway between the banks or shores.
The Special Master appointed by this court in January,
1930 (280 U.S. 529) has now filed his report. As to the
boundary within the circle, his report is in favor of Delaware. To that part of the report exceptions -have been
filed by New Jersey. As to the boundary in the bay nd
in the river below the circle, his report is in favor of New
Jersey. To that part exceptions have been filed by Delaware. The two branches of the controversy will be
separately considered here.
First. The boundary within the circle.
Delaware traces her title to the river bed within the
circle through deeds going back two and a half centuries
and more.
On August 24, 1682, the Duke of York delivered to
William Penn a deed of feoffment for the twelve mile
circle whereby he conveyed to the feoffee "ALL THAT
the Towne of Newcastle otherwise called Delaware and
All that Tract of Land lying within the Compass or Cirele
of Twelve Miles about the same scituate lying and being
upon the River Delaware in America And all Islands in
the same River Delaware and the said River and Soyle
thereof lying North of the Southermost part of the said
Circle of Twelve Miles about the said Towne." On
October 28, 1682 there was formal livery of seisin of the
lands and waters within the twelve mile circle. John
Moll and Ephriam Herman, attorneys appointed in the
deed of feoffment, gave possession and seisin "by delivery
of the fort of the sd Town and leaving the sd William
Penn in quiet and peaceable possession thereof and allso

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

365

Opinion of the Cou'rt.

by the delivery of turf and twig and water and Soyle of
the River of Delaware." "We did deliver allso unto him
one turf with a twigg upon it a porringer with River
water and Soyle in part of all what was specified in the sd
Indentures or deeds."
By force of these acts there was conveyed to the feoffee
any title to the river bed within the circle that then
belonged to the feoffor. New Jersey insists, however,
that the feoffor, the Duke of York, was not then the
owner of any territory west of the easterly side of the
Delaware River, and hence at the time of the feoffment
'had no title to convey. Letters patent from Charles II,
dated May 12, 1664, had granted to the Duke full title
to and government of a large territory in America, embracing much of New England and in particular "all the
land from the west side of Connecticut River to the east
side of Delaware Bay," not including, however, lands or
waters to the west. True the- Duke had gone into possession of lands westward of the grant, including land
within the circle, and through his delegates and deputies
was exercising powers of government. His acts in that
behalf were the outcome of conflicts with the Dutch.
What is now the State of Delaware had been subject to
the government of the Dutch until 1664, when with the
victory of the English arms it became an English colony.
From that time until August 24, 1682, the date of the
deed of feoffment, Delaware was governed (with the exception of a brief, period from July, 1763, to. February
9, 1764) as a dependency of the Government and Colony
of New York through governors commissioned by the
Duke of York and Albany. Upon the delivery of the
deed to Penn, the Duke was the de facto overlord of the
land within the circle, though title at that time was still
vested in the Crown.
The deed of feoffment had in it a covenant for further
assurance at any time within seven years. At the in-

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

stance of Penn and with little delay, thefeoffor took steps
to carry out, this covenant and thus rectify his title. On
March 22, 1682/3, letters patent under the Great Seal
of England were issued to the Duke of York for the
identical lands and waters described in the deed of feoffment from York to William Penn.' There is no doubt
that these letters were delivered to the Duke. The
Special Master has found upon evidence supporting the
conclusion that they were afterwards delivered to Penn
from whom they passed to his descendants. The Master
also found, and again upon sufficient evidence, that the
letters patent so delivered "were never thereafter surrendered, nor was the grant of lands and waters thereby
made ever abandoned nor was its validity ever impaired
by any act or proceeding." By force of this grant there
passed to the Duke of York a title to the land within
the circle which inured by estoppel to the grantee under
the feoffment.
The applicable principle in such circumstances is among
the rudiments of the law of property. The covenant
generating the estoppel is commonly one of warranty
or seisin. Irvine v. Irvine, 9 Wall. 617; Van Rensselaer
v. Kearney, 11 How. 297, 323, 325; Tef]t v. Munson, 57
'The following, is the description:
"All that the Towne of Newcastle otherwise called*Delaware and
the fort therein or thereunto belonging scituate lying and being
between Maryland and New Jersey in America And all that Tract of
land lying within the Compasse or Circle of twelve miles about the
said Towne Scituate lying and being upon the River of Delaware and
all Islands in the said River of Delaware and the said River and
Soyle thereof lying North of the Southermost part of the said Circle
of twelve miles about the said Towne And all that Tract of Land
upon Delaware River and Bay beginning twelve miles South from the
said Towne of Newcastle otherwise called Delaware and extending
South to Cape Lopen."
Powers of government and other proprietary and seignorial rights
were granted to the Duke along with ownership of the fee.

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

367

Opinion of the Cdurt.

N.Y. 97; Vanderheyden v. Crandall, 2 Denio 9; aff'd I
N.Y. 491; White v. Patten, 24 Pick. 324.2 The effect is

the same where the covenant is one for further assurance.
Taylor v. Debar, 1 Chan. Cas. 274 (1676); Lamb v. Carter, 14 Fed. Cas. 991; 1 Sawy. 212; Wholey v. Cavanaugh,
88 Cal. 132; 25 Pac. 1112; Hope v. Stone, 10 Minn. 114;
Norfleet v. Russell, 64 Mo. 176. To enforce that conclusion we do not need to wander far afield and consider
other deeds than the specific one in question. There
exists for our enlightenment the- opinion of the Chancellor in an historic litigation where the relation between
the feoffment of August, 1682, and the later patent from
the Crown, was the very point at issue. A dispute had
arisen between Lord Baltimore and Penn as to the title
to part of the Delaware territory. On May 10, 1732,
after Penn was in his grave, there was an agreement between his sons and Baltimore for the settlement of the
boundaries between Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland. Three -years later a bill was filed in Chancery for
the specific performance of the agreement of May, 1732,
to which suit the Attorney General was made a party as
the representative of the Crown.! The Duke of York
had become King under the name of James II on February 6, 1685, and George II sat upon the throne when
the cause in Chancery was heard. The Lord Chancellor,
Hardwicke, gave judgment for the Penns. Penn v. Lord
Baltimore, 1 Ves. Sen. 444; also Ridg. t. H. 332. In his
opinion he holds that the effect of the letters patent is
to make the deed of feoffment good either by force of an
estoppel or by converting the feoffor into a trustee for
'Compare, however, as to covenants of seisin, Doane v. Willcut,
5 Gray 328; Allen v. Sayward, 5 Me. 446.
'The Attorney General filed two answers in the cause, neither of
which asserted any beneficial title in the Crown, but merely prayed
that the court might "Preserve all such Rights Title and Interest

of in or to the Premises as shall appertain or belong to his Majesty."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the feoffee.. The objection is urged upon him that an
estoppel will not prevail against the Crown. The Chancellor makes it plain that he is not favorably impressed.
"For the Duke of York, being then [i.e., at the date of
the feoffment] in nature of a common person, was in a
condition to be estopped by a proper instrument." At
the same time, he is diffident about declaring a technical
estoppel, nor is there need- to go so far. If his Majesty
was not estopped, he was in any event a trustee of the
title for the use of the feoffee, which will bring about a
like result. "The Duke of York . . . while a subject
was to be considered as a trustee; why not afterwards
as a royal trustee?" "His successors take the legal
estate under the same equity; and it is sufficient for plaintiffs if they have an equitable estate." So Lord Baltimore must make performance in accordance with the contract. True, the decree for performance will be "without
prejudice to any prerogative, right, or interest in the
Crown." This again is by virtue of the deference owing
to the Crown by the keeper of his conscience. "Being
liberated from the restraints of the lord chancellor, we
are at liberty to say, that the duke, at the date of the
deeds, being a subject, was, in this respect, only 'a common person,' and as much bound by estoppel as any other
subject." Per Sergeant, Arbitrator, in the case of Pea
Patch Island, 30 Fed. Cas. 1123, 1151.
In the meantime Penn had proceeded to organize a
government for the Delaware territory. On October 29,
1682, he issued a summons to persons of note in the community to meet him at the Town pf New Castle on November 2 for the holding of a General Court to settle the
jurisdiction of the Territory. At that Court he announced
his title derived from the Duke of York, and instructed
the Magistrates that until laws were enacted by a proper
assembly they should take for their guide the laws that
had been provided by his Royal Highness for the Province

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

369

Opinion of the Court.

of New York, promising that they should be governed
thereafter by such laws and orders as they should consent
to by their own deputies and representatives. A general
assembly having been summoned, an Act of Union was
passed, December 7, 1682, whereby the three counties of
Delaware territory were annexed to Pennsylvania. In
the same month was enacted an Act of Settlement providing for a Provincial Council and Assembly and reciting the letters patent to Pennsylvania and the deeds of
release and feoffment from the Duke of York. Following
the establishment of this government, Penn and his successors as Proprietaries and Governors, and the Assembly
and Council of the Province, together with the Assembly
of the Lower Counties subsequently established, continued to exercise the power of government in all its plenitude over Pennsylvania and the Delaware territory. This
continued until the Revolution except for a. brief interruption during the reign of William and Mary.
There were, it is true, intermittent challenges both of
the proprietary interest of Penn and his successors and
of their governmental powers. As to these last, the most
serious challenge was one that followed the accession of
William and Mary in February, 1689, after the deposition
of James II as the result of the " Glorious Revolution."
Penn, who had been a favorite of royalty during the
reign of James, was for a time under a cloud. In 1692,
he was removed from the Government of Pennsylvania,
including the New Castle country, and his place given
to a successor. But he was soon restored to power, and,
it seems, to the royal confidence. In August, 1694, there
was an Order in Council by which' he was reestablished in
his former office. In the same month letters patent issued
under the Great Seal of State restoring him in the most
formal way to the administration of the government of
the "said province and territories," and revoking any
other appointment inconsistent therewith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

This patent, it would seem, had settled for all time the
validity of his exercise of governmental powers, however much it may have left in doubt his title to the
land. Mutterings of uncertainty, however, continued to
be heard as to his rights and powers in both aspects. In
1701, he had correspondence with the Board of Trade
which showed itself restless on the subject of his ownership. At intervals during the reign of Anne and afterwards he was required to sign a declaration that the
approval by the Crown of his governmental acts, such as
the appointment of a deputy, was not to be construed in
any manner to diminish "her Majesty's claim of right
to the said three lower counties." But the claims of
right thus reserved were never admitted by Penn to be
valid, nor were they ever pressed by the Crown. Not
even the petitions of jealous rivals, egging the Crown on,
were of avail to wake it into action. Thus, in 1717, the
Earl of Sutherland applied for a grant of the three Lower
Counties, asserting that he was ready to prove that the
title was in the Crown. The Attorney General issued a
summons to Penn to be present at a hearing, but Penn,
who had suffered a stroke of apoplexy, was unable to appear, and the proceeding was allowed to lapse. A like
fate awaited similar petitions submitted in later years.
Reservations of the royal claims might continue to be
made by cautious scriveners. By the time of the Revolution they were little more than pious formulas. A
title, good of record when reinforced by the patent of
1683, had been confirmed by a century of undisturbed
possession. When the Treaty of Paris was signed in
1783, the land within the circle was part of the territory
of Delaware, and the title was in the Penns or in persons
claiming under them.
The Declaration of Independence had made Delaware
a state with boundaries fixed as of that time. Nothing
that was done by her legislature thereafter has had the

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

effect of cutting down her territorial limits, however much
it may have affected the private ownership of the Penns
and their successors. Nothing thereafter done has had
the effect of adding to the territory then belonging to New
Jersey. Even so, a word must be said as to resolutions
and statutes that became a law in Delaware shortly after
the treaty of peace, since they are much relied upon by
New Jersey as marking the true boundary. The legislation is directed to the disposition of unappropriated lands.
A resolution of January 16, 1793, recommends to the citizens of Delaware "to take up no Warrants, and to accept
of no Patents or Deeds whatever, from John Penn the
Younger and John Penn, or either of them, or their Agents
or Attornies." A statute of February 2, 1793, visits the
penalty of a fine on inhabitants refusing to abide by these
recommendations and accepting any grants of vacant or
uncultivated lands except from persons acting under the
authority of the state. Another statute (February 7,
1794) recites in an elaborate preamble that "the right to
the soil and lands within the known and established limits
of this state, was heretofore claimed by the crown of Great
Britain," that by the treaty of peace between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, his Majesty
"relinquished all rights, proprietary and territorial within
the limits of the said United States, to the citizens'of the
same, for their sole use and benefit; by virtue whereof the
soil and lands within the limits of this state became the
right and property of the citizens thereof," and that "the
claims of the late and former pretended proprietaries of
this state, to the soil and lands contained within the same,
are not founded either in law or in equity."
We do not yield assent to the contention that the effect
of these acts was to establish a new boundary between
Delaware and New Jersey either as a result of estoppel
or through practical construction. There is no element of
estoppel. The deelaralions in respect of title were not

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

addressed to New Jersey, nor did action follow on the
faith of them. There is not even a sufficient basis for
a claim of practical construction. The declarations were
framed alio intuitu, with an eye to private titles, not to
public boundaries. In the economic unrest and disturbance of the day, the inhabitants of Delaware were ready
to disavow the claims of the Penns and others to the ownership of vast areas of uncultivated land. This is far from
meaning that there was a disavowal of the grants whereby
the colony of Delaware had derived its form and being.
What the legislation had in view was enlargement, not
restriction, of the domain of common ownership. The
truth, indeed, is that for the purpose of an inquiry into
the boundaries between colonies or states, questions of
private ownership are of secondary importance. The
Penns' title may have been misjudged, or may even have
failed for reasons not now apparent, and yet it does not
follow that the boundaries of New Jersey had thereby
been enlarged or those of Delaware curtailed. Such a
result could not be wrought without successfully impeaching the letters patent of 1683 whereby a seigniory in
the new world was conveyed by Charles to James. The
effect of those letters was to define the territorial limits
of the province or colony of Delaware, whether Penn and
his successors took anything thereby or not. The colony
of Delaware as defined by this patent was the one that
declared its independence in 1776 and that succeeded in
1783 to any fragment of ownership abiding in the Crown.
In resuming the title to uncultivated lands, its people had
no thought of modifying the ancient boundaries, of relinquishing a foot of soil above the waters or below. The
later history of the controversy between the states makes
this abundantly clear, if it could otherwise be doubtful.
What concerns us now is more than a question of meum
and tuum between one man and another. Our concern

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

is with the meaning of an instrument of government, a
patent of jurisdiction, which was to generate a state.
The letters patent of March, 1683, being basic to the
defendant's title, there must be another word of reference
to the contention for the complainant that the letters
were surrendered in April, 1683, a month after they were
granted. The Special Master, as we have already stated,
has made a finding to the contrary, and has summarized
the evidence. There would be no profit now in repeating the analysis. Not only does the Master find that
there was no surrender of the patent, he finds that the
original patent is in evidence before him. His holding
.that there was no surrender is in line with Lord Hardwicke's judgment in Penn v. Lord Baltimore. His holding that the original letters are extant and in the custody
of Delaware is in line with the judgment of the arbitrator,
rendered eighty-five years ago, in the case of Pea Patch
Island, supra. We see no adequate reason for rejecting
hi conclusion.
Assuming the existence of the patent, New Jersey
makes the claim that in its application to the river bed
it is void upon its face in that the Crown was without
power to grant away the soil beneath navigable waters.
The objection will not hold. The letters patent to the
Duke of York and the grant from York to Penn were not
for private uses solely, but for purposes of government.
There is high authority for the view that power was
in the Crown by virtue of the jus privatum to convey the
soil beneath the waters for uses merely private, but subject always to the jus publicum, the right to navigate and
fish. Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53; People v. N.Y.
& S. I. Ferry Co., 68 N.Y. 71, 76; People v. Steeplechase
Park Co., 218 N.Y. 459, 473; 113 N.E. 521; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U.S. 1, 13; Hale, De Jure Maris, p. 22.
Never has it been doubted that the grant will be upheld

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

where the soil has been conveyed as an incident to the
grant or delegation of powers strictly governmental.
Martin v. Waddell's Lessee, 16 Pet. 367, 410; 413;
Massachusetts v. New York, 271 U.S. 65, 89, 90. In
such circumstances, "the land under the navigable waters
passed to the grantee as one of the royalties incident to
the powers of government; and were to be held by him
in the same manner, and for the same purposes that the
navigable waters of England, and the soils under them,
are held by the Crown." Martin v. Waddell's Lessee,
supra, p. 413. The grant from Charles II to York was
upon its face an instrument of government. The feoffments from York to Penn were in furtherance of kindred
ends. Penn had no thought of using his title to the
soil as an obstruction to navigation or to any other common right. In a letter to one of his commissioners he
writes as early as April, 1683, concerning boundary negotiations with the Province of New Jersey: "Insist upon
my Title to ye River, Soyl and Islands thereof according
to Grant. . . Whatever bee ye Argument, they are
bounded Westward by the River Delaware, yn they cannot go beyond low water mark for land. They have ye
Liberty of ye River, but not ye Propriety." The title to
the soil, which was subject to the jus publicum while it
was vested in the King and his grantees, is subject to the
same restrictions in the ownership of Delaware. The
patent and the deeds under it are not void for want of
power.
Delaware's chain of title has now been followed from
the feoffment of 16S2 to the early days of statehood, and
has been found to be unbroken. The question remains
whether some other and better chain can be -brought, forwArd by New Jersey. Unless this can be done, Delaware
must ,nrevail. But down to the Peace of 1783 at the end
of the -volution, New Jersey has no chain to offer. Up
to that :. - if not afterwards, her reliance is less upon

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

the strength of her own title than on the weakness of her
advelsary's. The supposed defects have already been
reviewed in this opinion, and have been found to be unreal. There is still to be considered whether events during the years of statehood have worked a change of ownership. New Jersey argues that they have, though not
even during those years does she build her claim of title
upon instruments of record. Her claim is rather this, that
through the exercise of dominion by riparian proprietors
and by the officers of government, title to the subaqueous
soil up to the centre of the channel has been developed by
prescription. The Special Master held otherwise, and we
are in accord with his conclusion.
The acts of dominion by riparian proprietors are connected with the building of wharves and piers that project
into the stream. The structures were built and maintained without protest on the part of Delaware, and no
doubt with her approval. There is nothing in their presence to indicate an abandonment by the Sovereign of title
to the soil. By the law of waters of many of our states,
a law which in that respect has departed from the common
law of England, riparian proprietors have very commonly
enjoyed the privilege of gaining access to a stream by
building wharves and piers, and this though the title to
the foreshore or the bed may have been vested in the
state. Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U.S. 141, 157, 158; Shivdy v. Bowlby, supra,
at pp. 24, 55; Brookhaven v. Smith, 188 N.Y. 74; 80 N.E.
665; United States v. Dern, 289 U.S. 352, 357. New
Jersey in particular has been liberal in according such a
license (State v. Jersey City, 25 N.J.L. 525), and so, it
seems, has Delaware (Harlan & Hollingsworth Co. v.
Paschall, 5 Del. Ch. 435; State v. Reybold, 5 Harr. 484,
486), though in Delaware, unlike New Jersey, title to the
foreshore is in the riparian proprietor. From acquiescence in these improvements of the river front there can

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

be no legitimate inference that Delaware made over to
New Jersey the .title to the stream up to the middle of
the channel or even the soil under the piers. The privilege or license was accorded to the owners individually
and even as to them was bounded by the lines of their
possession.
Apart from these acts of dominion by riparian proprietors, there are other acts of dominion by New Jersey and
its agents which are relied upon now as indicative of
ownership. They include the service of process, civil and
criminal; the assessment of improvements for the purpose of taxation;' and the execution of deeds of conveyance to the United States and others. Of all it is enough
to say that they are matched by many other acts, equally
indicative of ownership and dominion, by the Government of Delaware. The Master summarizes the situation
with the statement that "at no time has the State of
Delaware ever abandoned its claim, dominion or jurisdiction over the Delaware River within said twelve-mile
circle, nor has it at any time acquiesced in the claim of
the State of New Jersey, thereto, except as modified by
the . . . Compact of 1905."
The truth indeed is that almost from the beginning of
statehood Delaware and New Jersey have been engaged in
a dispute as to the boundary between them. There is no
room in such circumstances for the application of the principle that long acquiescence may establish a boundary
otherwise uncertain. Vermont v. New Hampshire, 289
U.S. 593, 613; Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U.S. 479, 509,
'The complainant points for illustration to the construction of
important works for the use of the Dupont Co. 4,400 feet below low

water level, and taxation of these works like other property in: New
Jersey. At that time controversy was flagrant between the two
states. No inference of ownership can be drawn from dominion
exerted in such conditions.

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

511; Massachusetts v. New York, supra, p. 95. Acquies-

cence is not compatible with a century of conflict. Only a
few instances will be mentioned among many that are
available. In 1813, the Delaware Assembly ceded to the
United States an island in the Delaware River, east of
the main channel and within the twelve mile circle, for
the erection of a fort. A controversy arose between the
United States as holder of the Delaware title and Henry
Gale who claimed under New Jersey. In 1836, Gale
brought ejectment in the United States Circuit Court
against Beling, a tenant. Mr. Justice Baldwin charged
the jurj that Penn had no title, but the charge r/akes
it plain that he had no knowledge of the letters patent of
1683, and that they were not in evidence before him.
Later an arbitration was agreed upon between Humphrey,
who had succeeded to the New Jersey title, and the Government of the United States, represented by the Secretary of War. In that proceeding the award was in favor
of the Government. The opinion by the arbitrator, which
was announced in January, 1849, is a careful and able
statement of the conflicting claims of right. See the case
of Pea Patch Island, supra. But the controversy would
not down. In 1877, New Jersey began a suit in this court
to establish the .disputed boundary. It slumbered for
many years, and finally in April, 1907, was discontinued
without prejudice. 205 U.S. 550. If a record such as
this makes out a title by acquiescence, one is somewhat at
a loss to know how protest would be shown.
The complainant builds another argument upon a compact with the defendant which was ratified by the parties
in March, 1905, and approved by Congress in January
of 1907. 34 Stat. c. 394, p. 858. We are told that by
this compact the controversy was set at rest and the
claim of Delaware abandoned. It is an argument wholly
without force. The compact of 1905 provides for the en-

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

joyment of riparian rights, for concurrent jurisdiction in
respect of civil and criminal process, and for concurrent
rights of fishery. Beyond that it does not go. "Nothing
herein contained shall affect the territorial limits, rights,
or jurisdiction of either State of, in, or over the Delaware
River, or the ownership of the subaqueous soil thereof,
except as herein expressly set forth."
This opinion, though -it has summarized many facts
and arguments, has perforce omitted many others, important in the view of counsel. We content ourselves
with the statement that they have not been overlooked.
Omission is the less serious in view of the able and comprehensive report submitted by the Special Master. All
that matters most in this keen but amicable controversy
is there set forth at large, and there and in the supporting
documents the student of our local history can live it over
when he will.
We uphold the title of Delaware to the land within the
circle. Y
Second. The boundary below the circle in the lower
river and the bay.
Below the twelve mile circle there is a stretch of water
about five miles long, not different in its physical characteristics from the river above, and below this is another
stretch of water forty-five miles long where the river
broadens into a bay.
The title to the soil of the lower river and the bay is
unaffected by any grant to the Duke of York or others.
The letters patent to James do not affect the ownership
of the bed below the circle. Up to the time when New
Jersey and Delaware became independent states, the title
to the soil under the waters below the circle was still in. the
Crown of England. When independence was achieved,
the precepts to be obeyed in the division of the waters
were those of international law. Handly's Lessee v.
Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374, 379.

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

International law today divides the river boundaries
between states by the middle of the main channel, when
there is one, and not by the geographical centre, half way
between the banks. Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U.S. 1, 7, 8, 9;
Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U.S. 626,
631; Louisiana v. Mississippi,202 U.S. 1, 49; Arkansas v.
Tennessee, 246 U.S. 158, 169, 170; Arkansas v. Mississippi, 250 U.S. 39; Minnesota v. Wisconsin, 252 U.S. 273,
282. It applies the same doctrine, now known as the
doctrine of the Thalweg, to estuaries and bays in which
the dominant sailing channel can be followed to the sea.
Louisiana v. Mississippi, supra; and compare 1 Halleck

International Law, 4th ed., p. 182; Moore, Digest International Law, vol. 1, p. 617; Matter of Devoe Manufacturing Co., 108 U.S. 401; The Fame, 8 Fed. Cas. 984,
Story, J.; The Open Boat, 18 Fed. Cas. 751, Ware, J.
The Thalweg, or downway, is the track taken by boats
in their course down the stream, which is that of
the strongest current. 1 Westlake, International Law,
p. 144; Orban, Etude de Droit Fluvial International,
p. 343; Kaeckenbeck, International Rivers, p. 176;
Hyde, Int. Law, p. 244; Fiore, Int. Law Codified, ยง 1051;
Calvo, Dictionnaire de Droit International. Delaware
makes no denial that this is the decisive test whenever the
physical conditions define the track of navigation. Her
position comes to this, that the bay is equally navigable
in all directions, or at all events was so navigable in 1783,
and that in the absence of a track of navigation the geographical centre becomes the boundary, not of choice,
but of necessity. As to the section of the river between
the bay and the circle, the same boundary is to be accepted, we are told, as a matter of convenience.
The findings of the Special Master, well supported by
the evidence, overcome the argument thus drawn from
physical conditions. He finds that "as early as Fisher's
Chart of Delaware Bay (1756) there has been a well-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion df the Court.

291 U.S.

defined channel of navigation up and down the Bay and
River," in which the current of water attains its maximum velocity; that "Delaware River and Bay, on account of shoals, are not equally navigable in all directions, but the main ship channel must be adhered to for
safety in navigation "; that the Bay, according to the
testimony, "is only an expansion of the lower part of
the Delaware River," and that the fresh water of the
river does not spread out uniformly when it drains into
the bay, but maintains a continuing identity through its
course into the ocean. "The record shows the existence
of a well-defined deep water sailing channel in Delaware
River and Bay constituting a necessary track of navigation, and the boundary between the States of Delaware
and New Jersey in said bay is the middle of said channel."
The underlying rationale of the doctrine of the
Thalweg is one of equality and justice. "A river," in the
words of Holmes, J. (New Jersey v. New York, 283 U.S.
336, 342), "is more than an amenity, it is a treasure."
If the dividing line were to be placed in the centre of the
stream rather than in the centre of the channel, the
whole track of navigation might be thrown within the
territory of one state to the exclusion of the other. Considerations such as these have less importance for commonwealths or states united under a general government
than for states wholly independent. Per Field, J., in Iowa
v. Illinois, supra, p. 10. None the less, the same test will
be applied in the absence of usage or convention pointing
to another. Iowa v. Illinois, supra. Indeed, in 1783,
the equal opportunity for use that was derived from
equal ownership may have had a practical importance
for the newly liberated colonies, still loosely knit together,
such as it would not have today. They were not taking
any chances in affairs of vital moment. Bays and rivers

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

are more than geometrical divisions. They are the
arteries of trade and travel.
The commentators tell us of times when the doctrine
of the Thalweg was still unknown or undeveloped. Anciently, we are informed, there was a principle of codominion by which boundary streams to their entire
width were held in common ownership by the proprietors
on either side. 1 Hyde, International Law, p. 243, ยง 137.
Then, with Grotius and Vattel, came the notion of equality of division (Nys, Droit International, vol. 1, pp. 425,
426; Hyde, supra, p. 244, citing Grotius, De Jure Belli ac
Pacis, and Vattel, Law of Nations), though how this was
to be attained was still indefinite and uncertain, as the
citations from Grotius arid Vattel show.' Finally, about
the end of the eighteenth century, the formula acquired
precision, the middle of the "stream" becoming the
middle of the "channel." There are statements by the
commentators that the term Thalweg is to be traced to
5 Grotius has this to say (De Jure Belli ac Pacis, Book 2, c. 3, ยง 18):
"In Case of any Doubt, the Jurisdictions on each side reach to the
Middle of the River that runs betwixt them, yet it may be, and in some
Places it has actually happened, that the River wholly belongs to one
Party; either because the other Nation had not got possession of the
other Bank, 'till later, and when their Neighbours were already in
Possession of the whole River, or else because Matters were stipulated
by some Treaty."
In an earlier section (ยง 16, subdivision 2) he quotes a statement of
Tacitus that at a certain point "the Rhine began . . . to have a fixed
Channel, which was proper to serve for a Boundary."
Vattel (Law of Nations, supra) states the rule as follows: "If, of
two nations inhabiting the opposite banks of the river, neither party
can prove that they themselves, or those whose rights they inherit,
were the first settlers in those tracts, it is to be supposed that both
nations came there at the same time, since neither of them can give
any reason for claiming the preference; and in this case the dominion
of each will extend to the middle of the river."

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the Congress of Rastadt in 1797 (Engelhardt, Du Regime
Conventionnel des Fleuves Internationaux, p. 72; Koch,
Histoire des Trait6s de Paix, vol. 5, p. 156), and the
Treaty of Lun6ville in 1801. Hyde, supra, pp. 245, 246;
Kaeckenbeck, International Rivers, p. 176; Adami, National Frontiers, translated by Behrens, p. 17. If the
term was then new, the notion of equality was not. There
are treaties before the Peace of Lundville in which the
boundary is described as the middle of the channel,
though, it seems, without thought that in this there was
an innovation, or that the meaning would have been different if the boundary had been declared to follow the
middle of the stream. Hyde, supra, p. 246. Thus, in the
Treaty of October 27, 1795, between the United States
and Spain (Article IV), it is "agreed that the western
boundary of the United States which separates them from
the Spanish colony of Louisiana is in the middle of the
channel or bed of the River Mississippi." Miller, Treaties
and other International Acts of the United States of
America, vol. 2, p. 32 1 .' There are other treaties of the
same period in which the boundary is described as the
middle of the river without further definition, yet this
court has held that the phrase was intended to be equivalent to the middle of .the channel. Iowa v. Illinois;
Arkansas v. Tennessee; Arkansas v. Mississippi, supra.
See, e.g., the Treaty of 1763 between Great Britain,
France and Spain, which calls for "a line drawn along
the middle of the River Mississippi." The truth plainly
is that a rule was in the making which was to give fixity
and precision to what had been indefinite and fluid.
'See also the treaties collected in the Argument of the United States
before the International Boundary Commission in the Chamizal Arbitration of 1910 between the United States and Mexico.
Nys traces the concept of the Thalweg to a period earlier than the
Treaty of Munster, 1648. Droit International, v. 1, p. 426.

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
Opinion of the Court.

There was still a margin of uncertainty within which conflicting methods of division were contending for the mastery. Conceivably that is true today in unusual situations of avulsion or erosion. Hyde, supra, pp. 246, 247.
Even so, there has emerged out of the flux of an era of
transition a working principle of division adapted to the
needs of the international community. Through varying
modes of speech the law has been groping for a formula
that will achieve equality in substance, and not equality
in name only. Unless prescription or convention has
intrenched another rule (1 Westlake, International Law,
p. 146), we are to utilize the formula that will make
equality prevail.
In 1783, when the ReTolutionary War was over, Delaware and New Jersey began with a clean slate. There
was no treaty or convention fixing the boundary between
them. There was no possessory act nor other act of
dominion to give to the boundary in bay and river below
the circle a practical location, or to establish a prescriptive right. In these circumstances, the capacity of the
law to develop and apply a formula consonant with justice and with the political and social needs of the international legal system is not lessened by the fact that at
the creation of the boundary the formula of the Thalweg
had only a germinal existence. The gap is not so great
that adjudication may not fill it. Lauterpacht, The Function of Law in the International Community, pp. 52, 60,
70, 85, 100, 110, 111, 255, 404, 432. Treaties almost contemporaneous, which were to be followed by a host of
others, were declaratory of a principle that was making
its way into the legal order. Hall, International Law, 8th
ed., p. 7. International law, or the law that governs between states, has at times, like the common law within
states, a twilight existence during which it is hardly distinguishable from morality or justice, till at length the
imprimatur of a court attests its jural quality. Lauter-

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

pacht, supra, pp. 110, 255. Hall, supra, pp. 7, 12, 15, 16;
Jenks, The New Jurisprudence, pp. 11, 12. "The gradual
consolidation of opinions and habits" (Vinogradoff, Custom and Right, p. 21) has been doing its quiet work.
It is thus with the formula of the Thalweg in its application to the division between Delaware and New Jersey.
We apply it to that boundary, which goes back to the
Peace of Paris, just as we applied it to the boundary between Illinois and Iowa, which derives from a treaty of
1763 (Iowa v. Illinois; Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v.
Illinois; Arkansas v. Tennessee; Arkansas v. Mississippi,
supra), or to that between Louisiana and Mississippi
(202 U.S. 1, 16), which goes back to 1812, or between
Minnesota and Wisconsin (252 U.S. 273), going back to
1846. Indeed, counsel for Delaware make no point that
the result is to be affected by difference of time. In requests submitted to the Master they have asked for a
finding that" there was in 1783 no well defined channel in
the Delaware Bay constituting a necessary track of navigation and the boundary line between the States of Delaware and New Jersey in said bay is the geographical center
thereof." The second branch of the request is dependent
on the first. This is clear enough upon its face, but is
made doubly clear by the exceptions to the report and by
" International law, as well as domestic law, may not contain, and
generally does not contain, express rules decisive of particular cases;
but the function of jurisprudence is to resolve the conflict of opposing
rights and interests by applying, in default of any specific provision of
law, the corollaries of general principles ....

This is the method of

jurisprudence; it is the method by which law has been gradually
evolved in every country resulting in the definition and settlement of
legal relations as well between States as between private individuals."
The case of the Eastern Extension Australasia and China Telegraph
Co., Ltd., decided November 9, 1923, by the British-American Arbitral Tribunal under the Convention of August 18, 1910, Nielsen's
Report, pp. 75, 76, quoted by Lauterpacht, supra, p. 110.

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
361

Opinion of the Court.

the written and oral arguments. The line of division is
to be the centre of the main channel unless the physical
conditions are of such a nature that a channel is unknown.
We have seen that even in the bay the physical conditions are consistent with a track of navigation, which is
also the course of safety. Counsel do not argue that such
a track is unknown in the five miles of river between the
bay and the circle. The argument is, however, that
the geographical centre is to be made the boundary in the
river as a matter of convenience, since otherwise there will
be need for a sharp and sudden turn when the river meets
the bay. Inconvenient such a boundary would unquestionably be, but the inconvenience is a reason for following the Thalweg consistently through the river and the
bay alike instead of abandoning it along a course where it
can be followed without trouble. If the boundary be
taken to be the geographical centre, the result will be a
crooked line, conforming to the indentations and windings
of the coast, but without relation to the needs of shipping.
Minnesotav. Wisconsin, supra. If the boundary be taken
to be the Thalweg, it will follow the course furrowed by
the vessels of the world.
The report will be confirmed, and a decree entered
accordingly, which, unless agreed to by the parties, may
be settled upon notice.
Within the twelve mile circle, the river and the subaqueous soil thereof up to low water mark on the easterly
or New Jersey side will be adjudged to belong to the
State of Delaware, subject to the Compact of 1905.
Below the twelve mile circle, the true boundary between the complainant and the defendant will be adjudged to be the middle of the main ship channel in
Delaware River and Bay.
The costs of the suit will be equally divided.
It is so ordered,

