OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

Thus, regardless of what the statute commands, there is
no such showing of threatened denial of a hearing or of
injury to a property right as would warrant resort to the
equity powers of a federal court. Vandalia R. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 242 U.S. 255; United States v. Los
Angeles & St. L. R. Co., 273 U.S. 299, 314; White v. Johnson, 282 U.S. 367, 373; Porter v. Investors Syndicate,
supra.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,
JUSTICE CARDozo eoncur in this opinion.

and MR.

TRINITYFARM CONSTRUCTION CO. v. GROSJEAN, SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS OF
LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR 'cr, PASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued February 7, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

No. 355.

Petitioner entered into a contra-Vtith the Federal Government for
the construction of levees, in aid of navigation of the Mississippi
River, in the performance of which gasoline was used to supply
power for machinery. Held that a state excise tax on the gasoline
so used was not invalid, as a tax on a means or instrumentality of
the Federal Government, its effect, if any, upon that Government
being consequential and remote. P. 472..
3 F.Supp. 785, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which dismissed a bill to enjoin enforcement of
state taxes.

Mr. D. K. Woodward, Jr., with whom Messrs. Victor A.
Sachse and H. Payne Breazeale were on the brief, for
appellant.
The contracts are governmental means or instrumentalities. Jillespie v. Oklahoma,, 257 U.S. 501; Indian

TRINITYFARM CO. v. GROSJEAN.
466

Argument for Appellant.

Territory Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U.S. 522; Choctaw
0. & G. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U.S. 292; Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393.
The tax is not a tax upon the gasoline itself, nor upon
the "distribution," "storage," or "withdrawal" of the
gasoline. Distinguishing: Nashvqlle, C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249, and Edelman v. Boeing Air
Transport, 289 U.S. 249.
The tax can arise solely with reference to gasoline
"used or consumed,"-exploded for fuel.
If "use" were held to mean "withdrawal" from storage, the tax upon the privilege of withdrawal under the
facts in this case would still be a direct burden on the
federal contracts.
In the interstate cases above cited the act of withdrawal is held to have been completed before interstate
commerce began and the burden of the tax with respect
thereto is held too remote.
But, as said by Mr. Justice Holmes in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U.S. 501, distinguishing between attempts by
a State to levy taxes on transactions in interstate commerce and upon the operation of the Federal Government, " The rule as to instrumentalities of the United
States, on the other hand, is absolute in form and at least
stricter in substance."
An examination of the facts here will demonstrate that
the burden upon the federal contracts is direct, even if
"use "' be given the most comprehensive meaning yet
accorded to it.
Up to the time the gasoline came to rest in appellant's
storage tanks it was in interstate commerce and no contention is made that it was subject to the questioned tax.
It was then stored in appellant's tanks, on or near appellant's work and was a part of appellant's equipment, assembled for performance of its federal contract, like the
tanks which contained it, the tractors and trpcks in which

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

it was presently to be consumed. Like them it had been
brought to the site solely and exclusively because the federal vontract had been made and was then actually being
performed. Every act with respect to the gasoline which
could possibly be subject to the tax, of necessity occurred
after and not before the performance of the federal contract had begun-a situation wholly different from that
passed upon in the interstate commerce cases where the
taxable acts were completed before interstate transportation commenced.
After the gasoline came to rest in appellant's storage
tanks, it was "used" in four ways, in the broadest possible sense of the word. It remained stored where it was;
it was withdrawn from storage; it was put in appellant's
fuel tanks; and it was exploded and consumed as engine
fuel in actual levee construction.
In legal effect it matters not at all which act the State
may select as the basis of its levy. Each act occurs after
and not before the federal contract is commenced; each
act is part performance of that contract; each act is done
solely because of the federal contract; each act adds part
of the cost or expense of performing the federal contract;
each act is essential to the performance of that contract.
If the State may tax the storage of gasoline used in
performing a federal contract, it may not be denied the
power to tax the storage of coal, oil or other fuel, or, for
that matter, the "storage" of draglines or other equipment while not actively engaged in work upon the contract.
Surrender to the State the right to tax any one of the
acts enumerated and it will have power to destroy the
contract; to defeat the ability of the Government to enter
into such contracts.
It is in evidence and undisputed that the asserted tax
would add to the cost of the work; that the bid price of
appellant to the Government would have been higher

TRINITYFARM CO. v. GROSJEAN.
466

Opinion of the Court.

upon these identical contracts had appellant conceded the
validity of the asserted tax; that future bids will be proportionately higher if the tax is sustained. A burden
more direct upon the contract, and through it upon the
Government, can not easily be conceived-a burden falling
with equal force and certainty regardless of the act subjected to the tax.
The invalidity of taxes of this nature is established
by an unbroken line of decisions of this Court. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Stockton v. Baltimore
Ry. Co., 32 Fed. 9; Pembina Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U.S.
181; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U.S. 302;
Sault Ste. Marie v. International Transit Co., 234 U.S.
333; PanhandleOil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U.S. 218; Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 245.
The difference between an excise tax based on sales
and one based on use of property is obvious and substantial. Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U.S. 499.
When it is asserted a contract with the Federal Government is not a means selected by Congress for carrying
out its delegated powers, careless thinking or want of
knowledge is apparent. That the holder of such a contract is not an agent in the strict legal sense may be admitted; that the contract is a means to the delegated end
may not be intelligently denied. What is meant, most
frequently, is that the incidence of the tax on the governmental means is not admitted or, if it exists, that it
is too remote. Cf. Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 737, 865.
Messrs. Peyton R. Sandoz and Justin C. Daspit, with
whom Mr. Gaston L. Porterie,Attorney General of Louisiana, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant has contracts with the United States for the
construction of levees in Louisiana to control the waters of

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the Mississippi River. It consumes much gasoline in the
operation of machinery employed to do the work. It imports its supply from other States in carload lots and
places it in a central tank from which distribution is made
to other tanks located on its right of way in proximity to
the machines. Appellee, an officer of Louisiana, is required to enforce the provisions of its statutes that impose
an excise of five cents per gallon in respect of gasoline
so imported and used.' The state supreme court has held
that the exaction is an excise tax levied upon all gasoline or motor fuel sold, used or consumed in -the State
(State v. Tri-State Co., 173 La. 682; 138 So. 507) and we
accept that characterization. Claiming that these enactments are repugnant to several clauses of the Federal
Constitution, appellant brought this suit to enjoin the
collection of the tax in respect of the gasolmie so used by
it. A three judge court, having granted a temporary injunction, heard the case on the merits, upheld the tax
and dismissed the bill. 3 F.Supp. 785.
The appellant seeks reversal on the ground that the
contracts are federal means or instrumentalities, that the
enactments referred to impose a direct burden upon them
1

Act No. 6, Special Session of 1928, as amended by Act No. 8 of
1930, Act No. 16 of 1932, levies a tax of four cents a gallon "on all
gasoline, or motor fuel, sold, used or consumed in the State of Louisiana for domestic consumption." ยง 1. The tax is collected from
"dealers" who, as defined by ยง 2 of the Act, include "the person .. . who imports such gasoline or motor fuel from any other
State or foreign country for distribution, sale or use in the State of
Louisiana." And on "all gasoline or motor fuel imported from other
States and used by him, the 'dealer' . . . shall pay the tax on the
amount so imported and used, the same as if it has [sic] been sold
for domestic consumption." Section 14 provides that the tax ".shall
not apply to sales to the United States Government or any, agency
or department thereof." Act No. 1, extraordinary Session of 1930,
imposed an additional tax of one cent a gallon.

TRINITYFARM CO. v. GROSJEAN.
466

Opinion of the Court.

and that the State was without power to impose the tax.
And on that basis it seeks to invoke the rule that, consistently with the Federal Constitution, a State may not
tax the operations of an instrument employed by the
government of the Union to carry its powers into operation. That principle, while not expressly stated in the
Constitution, necessarily arises out of our dual government. It has often been given effect.' And reciprocally
it safeguards every State against federal tax on its governIts application does not
mental agencies or operations
depend upon the amount of the exaction, the weight of
the burden or the extent of the resulting interference with
sovereign independence. Where it applies, the principle
is an absolute one wholly unaffected by matters or distinctions of degree. Indian Motocycle Co. v.' United
States, 283 U.S. 570, 575, and cases cited. Its right application is essential to the orderly conduct of the national
and the state governments and the attainment of justice
as between them.
The power granted by the commerce clause is undoubtedly broad enough to include construction and maintenance of levees in aid of navigation of the Mississippi
'McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 400, 436.

Weston v.

Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 463, 466, et seq. Dobbins v. Erie County, 16
Pet. 435, 443, 447. Farmers & Mechanics Bank v. Minnesota, 232
U.S. 516, 526. Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U.S. 292.
Indian Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U.S. 522. Gillespie v. Oklahoma,
257 U.S. 501. PanhandleOil Co. v. Knox, 277 U.S. 218. Cf. Susquehanna Power Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 283 U.S. 291.
'Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113. United States v. Railroad Co.,
17 Wall. 322, 327. Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U.S.
429, 584. South Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S. 437, 452, 461.
Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 570. Burnet v.
Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U.S. 393. Cf. Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U.S. 514. Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283 U.S. 279.
Burnet v. A. T. Jergins Trust, 288 U.S. 508.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

River, and to authorize the performance of the work
directly by government officers and employees or pursuant to contracts such as those awarded to appellant. The
latter method was chosen and the validity of the challenged tax is to be tested on that basis. It is not laid
upon the choice of means, the making of the contracts,
the contracts themselves, or any transaction to which the
federal government is a party or in which it is immediately or directly concerned. Nor is the exaction laid or
dependent upon the amounts, gross or net, received by
the contractor. The exaction in respect of its relation to
the federal undertaking is wholly unlike those considered
in Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U.S. 292;
Indian Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U.S. 522; and Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U.S. 501. Appellant is an independent
contractor. Casement v. Brown, 148 U.S. 615, 622. It is
not a government instrumentality. Cf. Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U.S. 514. Group No. 1 Oil Corp. v. Bass,
283 U.S. 279. Unquestionably, as appellant here concedes, Louisiana is free to tax the machinery, storage
tanks, tools, etc., that are used for the performance of
the contracts. These things are as closely connected with
the work as is the gasoline in respect of which is laid
the excise in question. There is no room for any distinction between the plant so employed and the gasoline
used to generate power. If the payment of state taxes
imposed on the property and operations of appellant
affects the federal government at all, it at most gives rise
to a burden which is consequential and remote and not
to one that is necessary, immediate or direct. Thomas v.
Gay, 169 U.S. 264, 275. Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
supra, 524 et seq. Wheeler Lumber Co. v. United States,
281 U.S. 572, 579. Appellant's claim of immunity is without foundation.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO concurs in

the result.

