CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE*

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CONNELL

ET AL.

V.

WALKER.

CERTIORART TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 535.

Submitted December 4, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. Under § 67 (f) of the Bankruptcy Act, where an attachment of an
insolvent's property was obtained within four months prior to the
filing of. a petition in bankruptcy against him, the trustee has the
election of preserving it for the benefit of the bankrupt estate; it
is not void at the election of the bankrupt alone. Lehman, Stern &
Co. v. Gumbel & Co., 236 U.S. 448; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Ha//, 229 U.S. 511, distinguished. P. 3.
2, A suit in a state court brought by a creditor of a bankrupt within
four months prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition, to set
aside a fraudulent conveyance made by him tnore than four months
prior to the petition, is not terminated by the mere existence of
the bankruptcy proceeding, and the right of the creditor to maintain it under the state law is withdrawn only if the trustee elects
under § 70 (e), to prosecute it for the benefit of the bankrupt's
estate. P. 5.
3. The refusal of the state court to stay such a suit at the demand
of the bankrupt upon the bare showing of the bankruptcy adjudication was not an abuse of the sound discretion permitted by § 11 (a)
of the Bankruptcy Act, assuming that section applicable. P. 5.
-4. Assuming that § 11 (a) does not apply under the circumstances
of this case, but that the general scheme of the Act implies some
duty of the state court to preserve the estate until the bankruptcy
court had opportunity to assert its jurisdiction, still it has not been
shown that such an opportunity has not been afforded. P. 6.
63 N.D. 622; 249 N.W. 726, affirmed,

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 620, to review the affirmance of
a judgment in an attachment suit, setting aside, as in
fraud of creditors, a conveyance of the land attached, and
directing a sale, and application of the proceeds of sale
to the plaintiff's claim.

Mr. John A. Jorgenson was on the brief for petitioners.
Mr. Paul E. Shorb was on the brief for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on certiorari to review a judgment
of the Supreme Court of North Dakota involving the
application of certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.
The respondent, a creditor of petitioner Connell, brought
suit in the District Court of Ramsey County, North
Dakota, to set aside, as in fraud of creditors, a conveyance
by Connell to the other petitioners of land located in the
state. The suit was begun by attachment of the land, and
while it was pending in the trial court the petitioners, by
a motion for stay of proceedings and by their amended
answer, set up that' within four months after the attachment petitioner Connell had filed a voluntary petition in
bankruptcy in the District Court for Southern California,
which had resulted in an adjudication of bankruptcy. It
was not shown whether a trustee had been selectel. The
county court, upon the trial, found that the conveyance
was in fraud of creditors and gave judgment for the respondent, which the Supreme Court of the state affirmed,
63 N.D. 622; 249 N.W. 726, directing that the land be
sold and the proceeds applied to the satisfaction. of the
indebtedness to respondent. The relief granted was restricted to the sale of the attached land by a provision of
the judgment that it should not be deemed to establish
the pqrsonal liability of any of the petitioners.

CONNELL v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Petitioners argue here, as they did in the Atate courts,
that under § 67 (f) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C.A.,
§ 107 (f), the lien of the attachment upon which the judgment was founded was a nullity because procured when
the bankrupt was insolvent and within four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, so that no
judgment could be given or enforced against the attached
property, and they insist that in any event the state court
should have stayed the action until the termination of the
bankruptcy proceedings.
We may assume, for present purposes, that the trustee
in bankruptcy, if there is one, could have taken and may
still take appropriate proceedings to set aside the attachment as invalid under § 67 (f), 11 U.S.C.A. § 107 (f), 1
either by intervention in the action in the state court,
as authorized by § 11 (b), 11 U.S.C.A., § 29 (b); see
Lehman, Stern & Co. v. S. Gumbel & Co., 236 U.S. 448;
Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U.S. 734, or
by procuring an order of the bankruptcy court staying
any further proceedings by the state court to secure the
"§ 67 (f). "That all levies, judgments, attachments or other liens,
obtained through legal proceedings against a person who is insolvent,
at any time within four months prior to the filing of a petition in
bankruptcy against him, shall be deemed null and void in case he is
adjudged a bankrupt, and the property affected by the levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien shall be deemed wholly discharged
and released from the same, and shall pass to the trustee as a part of
the estate of the bankrupt, unless the court shall, on due notice, order
that the right under such levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien
shall be preserved for the benefit of the estate; and thereupon the
same may pass to and shall be preserved by the trustee for the benefit
of the estate as aforesaid. And the court may order such conveyance
as shall be necessary to carry the purposes of. this section into effect.
Nothing herein contained shall have the effect to destroy or impair
the title obtained by such levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien,
of a bona fide purchaser for value who shall have acquired the same
without notice or reasonable cause for inquiry,"

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S

benefit of the attachment, Clarke v. Larremore, 188 U.S.
486; see Globe Bank v. Martin, 236 U.S. 288; compare
Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U.S. 165; Straton v. New, 283 U.S.
318, or that he might have avoided the attachment by
the assertion of dominion over the property inconsistent
with the continued existence of the lien, Chicago B. & Q.
R. Co. v. Hall, 229 U.S. 511. But § 67 (f) also extends to
the trustee the privilege of procuring an order of the
bankruptcy court directing that the right under the lien
of attachment be preserved for the benefit of the bankrupt's estate, and to secure its benefits he may, as provided in § 67 (c), be subrogated to all the rights of the
lienor. See Rock Island Plow Co. v. Reardon, 222 U.S.
354; Miller v. New Orleans Acid & F. Co., 211 U.S. 496,
505; First National Bank v. Staake, 202IU.S. 141.
Here the trustee, if any, is not a party to the suit and
he is not shown to have made the election with respect
to the attachment lien for which § 67 (f) provides. This
privilege is one of substance, see Rock Island Plow Co. v.
Reardon, supra, and the statute gives it to the trustee, not
to the bankrupt or his creditors. A judgment of dismissal, as prayed by the petitioners, would have dissolved
the attachment and thus would have enabled the bankrupt
to cut off the privilege reserved to the trustee to preserve
it. We do not think the statute can be construed to
require that result.
Petitioners place reliance upon the language of the
opinions in Lehman, Stern & Co. v. Gumbel & Co., supra,
and in Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Hall, supra,which state
in the broad words of the statute that liens acquired within
four months of the filing of the petition are "void." But
in the one case the receiver, by his intervention in the
action in the state court, and in the other the trustee, by
appropriate' action taken in the bankruptcy court, had
asserted the invalidity of the lien acquired by the local
suit. In neither does the decision militate against the

•CONNELL v. WALKER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion which we reach here, that the bankrupt alone
can not invoke a judgment which would preclude the
exercise of the privilege reserved to the trustee to assert
rights under the lien.
Bankruptcy proceedings do not, merely by virtue of
their maintenance,. terminate an action already pending
in a non-bankruptcy court, to which the bankrupt is a
party. Pickens v. Roy, 187 U.S. 177; Jones v. Springer,
226 U.S. 148; Straton v. New, supra. This is obviously
the case where the suit like the present one is brought
by a creditor to set aside a fraudulent conveyance of the
bankrupt, made more than four months before the petition, in bankruptcy. The right asserted is one given the
creditor by state law which the Bankruptcy Act withdraws from him only upon the election of the trustee to
assert the rights of the creditor, as he is privileged to do
by § 70 (e), 11 U.S.C.A. § 110 (e), an election, which, in
this case, does not appear to have been made. Compare
Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U.S. 1; Dushane v. Beall, 161
U.S. 513; First National Bank v. Lasater, 196 U.S. 115;
American Exchange Bank v. Goetz, 283 Fed. 900; Laughlin v. Calumet & Chicago Canal & Dock Co., 65 Fed. 441;
and cf. Thomas v. Sugarman, 218 U.S. 129. Upon this
record no case is made entitling the petitioners, under
any provision of the Bankruptcy Act, to a judgment of
dismissal.
The question remains whether, the trustee having failed
to assert any rights with respect to the pending action, the
state court was required to stay it by any provision or
necessary implication of the Bankruptcy Act. We find
it unnecessary to decide whether §. 11 (a), 11 U.S.C.A.
§ 29 (a), authorizing a, stay of certain suits pending
against a bankrupt, 2 lays down a rule for non-bankruptcy
§ 11 (a). "A suit which is founded upon a claim from which a discharge would be a release, and which is pending against a person at
the time of the filing of a petition against him, shall be stayed until

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

-

291 U.S.

as well as bankruptcy courts,' or whether it is applicable
to suits like the present one ' or whether the bankrupt
may invoke its provisions.' For, if applicable here, the
authority given by that section to stay periding suits after
adjudication, which has taken place here, is not mandatory, but permissive, to be exercised in the sound discretion of the court. There is'no suggestion that there was
any abuse of discretion- by the state court in refusing to
stay its hand on the bare showing by the fraudulent bankrupt that there had been an adjudication in bankruptcy.
It does not appear that there is any creditor other than
respondent, or that the trustee had not been advised of
the suit, or that thp bankrupt could not, by giving notice
to the trustee, have afforded the trustee ample opportunity to assert his rights if there were other creditors to
protect. On the other hand, if § 11 (a) does not apply, but
if it be assumed that the general scheme of the Act implies
some duty of the state court to preserve the estate until
opportunity is given the bankruptcy court to assert its
jurisdiction, see Acme Harvester Co, v. Beekman Lumber
Co., 222 U.S. 300, 308; In re Moore, 42 F, (2d) 475, 478,
still the petitioners have failed to show that there has
been no such opportunity.
Affirmed.
after an adjudication or the dismissal of the petition; if such person
is 'adjudged a bankrupt, such action may be further stayed until
twelve months after the date of such adjudication, or, if within that
time such person applies for a discharge, then until the question of
such discharge is determined ..
'See Smith v. Miller, 226 Mass.. 187; 115 N.E. 243; Star Braiding
Co. v. Stienen Dyeing Co., 44 R.I. 8; 114 Atl. 129; Collier, Bankruptcy (13th ed.), 414.
' Cf. Hill v. Hdtding, 107 U.S. 631; but cf. Remington, Bankruptcy
(4th ed.), § 3491.
'See In re Geister, 97 Fed. 322.,

