OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

truth and subvert the policy of this particular legislation.
Compare Huprcs v. United States, supra, at p. 494.
The sole question to be considered is-What is the
value of the interest to be saved from the tax? That is
a practical question, not concluded by the presumption
invoked but to be determined by ascertaining in terms of
money what the property constituting that interest would
bring in the market, subject to such uncertainty as ordinarily attaches to such an inquiry. See Ithaca Trust Co.
v. United States, supra. Thus stated, the birth of a child
to the daughter of the deceased after his death was so
plainly impossible that, as a practical matter, the hazard
disappears from the problem. Certainly, in the light of
our present accurate knowledge in respect of the subject,
if the interest had been offered for sale in the open market
during the daughter's lifetime, a suggestion of the possibility of such an event would have been ignored by every
intelligent bidder as utterly destitute of reason.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
ALABAMA v. ARIZONA
No. -,

original.

ET AL.

Argued January 9, 1934.-Decided
February 5, 1934.

1. A bill by a State seeking to enjoin five other States from enforcing

their statutes against open market sale of products of prison labor,

upon the ground that such statutes, and an Act of Congress purporting to divest such products of their interstate character,
operate unconstitutionally to deprive the complainant of its interstate markets for goods produced in its prison farms and factories,-held multifarious. Bitterman v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
207 U.S. 205. P. 290.
2. This Court may not be called on to give advisory opinions or to
pronounce declaratory judgments. P. 291.
3. Application by a State for leave to file a bill to enjoin other States
from enforcing their laws will not be granted unless the facts alleged

ALABAMA v. ARIZONA.
286

Counsel for Parties.

are clearly sufficient to call for a decree in its favor and the threatened injury is clearly shown to be serious and imminent. P. 291.
4. In the absence of specific showing to the contrary, it will be presumed that no State will attempt to enforce an unconstitutional
enactment to the detriment of another. P. 292.
5. In a suit by a State to prevent other States from enforcing their
statutes, the burden upon the plaintiff to establish fully and clearly
all essential elements of its case is greater than that generally required to be borne by one seeking an injunction in a suit between
private parties. P. 292.
Leave to file denied.

APPLICATION by the State of Alabama for leave to
file a bill for an injunction against five other States.
Mr. Wm. Logan Martin, with whom Mr. Thomas E.
Knight, Attorney General of Alabama, and Mr. Perry W.
Turner were on the brief, for plaintiff.
Mr. Win. A. Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Raymond T. Nagle, Attorney General of
Montana, argued the cause for the defendant States, and
briefs were filed as follows: by Mr. Arthur T. LaPrade,
for Arizona; Messrs. U. S. Webb and W. R. Augustine,
for California; Messrs. Paul P. Prosser,Norris C. Bakke,
and Allen Moore, for Colorado; Mr. Bert H. Miller, for
Idaho; Messrs. Philip Lutz, Jr., and Joseph W. Hutchinson, for Indiana; Messrs. Edward L. O'Connor, Walter
F. Maley, and J. M. Parsons, for Iowa; Messrs. Bailey
P. Wootton and S. H. Brown, for Kentucky; Mr. Harry
H. Peterson, for Minnesota; Messrs. Raymond T. Nagle
and JeremiahJ. Lynch, for Montana; Messrs. William A.
Stevens and Duane E. Minard, for New Jersey; Messrs.
John J. Bennett, Jr., and Henry Epstein, for New York;
Messrs. Dennis G. Brummitt and A. A. F. Seawell, for
North Carolina; Messrs. John W. Bricker, W. Dale Dunifon, and Perry L. Graham, for Ohio; Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, for Oregon; Mr. Wm. A. Schnader, for Pennsylvania;

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

Messrs. G. TV. Hamilton, John IV. Hanna, and E. P. Donnelly, for Washington; and Messrs. James E. Finnegan
and J. E. Messerschmidt, for Wisconsin.
MR. JUSTICE
Court.

BUTLER

delivered the opinion, of the

For the purpose of invoking original jurisdiction as "to
Controversies between two or more States" (Const., Art.
III, ยง 2) Alabama lodged with the clerk and applied for
leave to file a complaint against 19 States praying that
the court adjudge invalid, because in violation of the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, statutes by
them respectively enacted to regulate or prohibit sales of
articles produced by convict labor and an Act of Congress
approved January 19, 1929, 45 Stat. 1084, effective January 19, 1934, to divest in certain cases such products of
their interstate character. Responding to our orders to
show cause why leave should not be granted, 17 of the
States submitted returns suggesting that the complaint is
multifarious and fails to allege facts sufficient to entitle
Alabama to any relief. At the hearing upon the questions
so raised, counsel for Alabama obtained leave to, and on
a later day did, submit an amendment eliminating 14
States including those that merely regulate and some that
prohibit sales of convict-made goods, leaving only Arizona,
Idaho, Montana, New York and Pennsylvania.
Each of the assailed state statutes, while not in all respects the same as the others, forbids the sale upon the
open market of any goods produced wholly or in part by
convicts of other States and prescribes penalties for violation. The Act of Congress declares that, with exceptions which need not be specified here, goods produced by
convict labor and transported into any State shall be subject to the laws of that State to the same extent and in
the same manner as if there produced.

ALABAMA v. ARIZONA.
286

Opinion of the Court.

The substance of the complaint follows. Alabama's
prison population averages about 5,500 and in connection
with its prisons it has agricultural lands, cotton mills and
a shirt factory. About 1,050 inmates do farm work for
the production of cotton and potatoes, and about 1,250
operate spindles and make shirts. In 1927 the State entered into a contract with a manufacturing company
pursuant to which it sold the latter cotton goods made in
its mills and, for hire at the rate of 75 cents per dozen
shirts made, furnished convict labor to be employed in
the prison factory. The contract expired March 31, 1933,
and, the company having declined to renew or extend it,
the parties agreed that during the ensuing quarter the
State would sell the conmpany prison-made goods for 5
cents a yard and furnish the convict labor for 54 cents
per dozen shirts.
While the contract was in force the company sold some
of the convict-made products in each of the 19 States
originally named as defendants. In round figures, sales
amounted annually to $347,000, of which it received for
the goods sold in Arizona $1,000, Idaho $10,000, Montana
$10,000, New York $30,000, Pennsylvania $25,000. For
the material and labor furnished by it Alabama received
the equivalent of 30 per cent. of the amounts for which
the company sold the goods. Because of the Act of Congress and state statutes in question Alabama is unable to
make any "firm agreement " for the sale of its prisonmade cotton goods or for the employment of its convicts.
In the second quarter of 1933 it received for labor $11,500
less than was paid it in the preceding quarter. The lower
rate of compensation will continue during the rest of 1933.
And enforcement of the statutes in question will prevent
Alabama from selling in defendant States potatoes produced by the labor of its convicts.
Alabama's investment in the cotton mills and shirt factory exceeds $300,000 and will be valueless as a result of

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

its inability to find an employer for its convict labor and
a market for its prison-inade goods. The cost of maintaining unemployed convicts will be about $550,000 annually. Without employment convicts cannot be treated
appropriately for their rehabilitation and the promotion
of the good order and welfare of the State. The very
existence of the assailed enactments is sufficient to bring
about the unemployment which will continue unless their
enforcement is enjoined.
If Alabama is compelled to provide other employment,
it will have to expend about $1,000,000 for the construction of plants for the manufacture of things to be used
by the inmates of its eleemosynary institutions and in and
about other state activities. As presently employed its
prisoners are divided into night and day shifts so as to
avoid overcrowding of the prisons. And, if the State does
not provide other industrial activities it will have to expend about $100,000 for additional space to house its convicts.
1. There is no test or rule of general application by
which to determine whether a complaint in equity is multifarious. That question is to be decided by the court
in the exercise of sound discretion having regard to the
facts alleged, circumstances disclosed and the character of
the relief sought. Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333, 411. Nelson v. Hill, 5 How. 127, 132. Shields v. Thomas, 18 How.
253, 259. Fitch v. Creighton, 24 How. 159, 163-164.
Brown v. Guarantee Trust Co., 128 U.S. 403, 410. Unless
necessary for the prompt, convenient and effective administration of justice, a suit by one State against several
States to set aside a statute of each is properly to be regarded as multifarious. There has been suggested no
reason to sustain Alabama's complaint, 'as it stood before
amendment, against the objection of misjoinder of parties
defendant and of causes of action. Cf. Hale v. Allinson,
188 U.S. 56, 74.

ALABAMA v. ARIZONA.
286

Opinion of the Court.

The amendment of the bill serves merely to obviate
objections that are based on dissimilarity of the state enactments. It is not shown that the joinder of five States
is necessary to avoid a multiplicity of suits or that it will
substantially serve the convenience of Alabama or of the
court. Alabama does not claim concert of action off the
part of the defendants or that they are jointly liable in
respect of any matter referred to in the bill. The enforcement of the statutes attacked would prohibit the
sale of Alabama's prison products in the five States
named. If one is repugnant to the commeree clause, all
transgress. Alabama cities Bitterman v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 207 U.S. 205. Considerations of convenience that in suits between private parties reasonably
may justify exercise of discretion in support of such joinders have no bearing in a case such as this. If, in a suit
brought by Alabama against one of these States, this
court should hold the assailed statute invalid and enjoin
its enforcement, the decision would be authoritative and
controlling as a precedent in all courts, state and federal.
Presumably no other State would attempt on similar facts
to enforce a like measure, and Alabama would have no
occasion to invoke our jurisdiction further. The amended
bill is multifarious.
2. This court may not be called on to give advisory
opinions or to pronounce declaratory judgments.
Muskrat v. United States, 219 U.S. 346. Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 277 U.S. 274, 288, and cases cited.
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249, 261262. Its jurisdiction in respect of controversies between
States will not be exerted in the'absence of absolute necessity. Louisiana v. Texa8, 176 U.S. 1, 15. A State asking leave to sue another to prevent the enforcement of
laws must allege, in the complaint offered for filing, facts
that are clearly sufficient to call for a decree in its favor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the'Court.

291 U.S.

Our decisions definitely establish that not every matter of
sufficient moment to warrant resort to equity by one person against another would justify an interference by this
court with the action of a State. Missouri v. Illinois,
200 U.S. 496, 520-521. New York v. New Jersey, 256
U.S. 296, 309. North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U.S. 365,
374. Leave will not be granted unless the threatened injury is clearly shown to be of serious magnitude and
imminent. Missouri v. Illinois, supra, 521. In the
absence of specific showing to the contrary, it will be presumed that no State will attempt to enforce an unconstitutional enactment to the detriment of another. Cf. Ex
parte La Prade,289 U.S. 444, 458. The burden upon the
plaintiff State fully and clearly to establish all essential
elements of its case is greater than that generally required
to be borne by one seeking an injunction in a suit between
private parties. Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U.S.
660, 669.
Plainly the amended bill does not meet the requirements that reasonably should be imposed upon the applicant. It fails to show that Alabama has any agreement
with any defendant or that there is any direct issue between them or that the validity of the statutes in question
and Alabama's assertion of right may not, or indeed will
not, speedily and conveniently be tested by the contracting company, that apparently is directly concerned, or by
a seller of such goods. Cf. Louisiana v. Texas, supra, 18,
22. There is no allegation that an adequate market for
the goods in question may not be found outside the five
States named. The facts alleged are not sufficient to warrant a finding that the enforcement of the statutes of any
defendant would cause Alabama to suffer great loss or
any serious injury. If filed, the bill would have to be dismissed for want of equity. Floridav. Mellon, 273 U.S. 12.
Leave denied.
MR.JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.

