BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
320

Argument for the Judges.

of the term and the total rent to fall due in the future.
The covenants appearing in the leases in question cannot
be made the basis of a proof of debt against the estate.
The judgments are
Affirmed.

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 656.

Argued January 17, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. A district or circuit judge of the United States who retires
pursuant to. § 260 of the Judicial Code, as amended, continues in
office within the meaning of § 1 of Art. III of the Constitution,
and his compensation may not be diminished. P. 348.
2. In the light of the evident purpose of the Act that a retiring
judge shall continue to hold office and perform official duties, its
provision for the appointment of a "successor"
can not be
construed as vacating the office. P. 351.
3. A diminution after an increase of compensation, even though not
a reduction below the rate at date of appointment, is a diminution
within the meaning of § 1 of Art. III. P. 352.
CERTIFICATES from the Court of Claims in two cases
involving the validity of an Act reducing the pay of

retired federal judges.

Messrs. William D. Mitchell and John S. Flannery,
with whom Mr. Carl Taylor was on the brief, for petitioners.

To resign an office is to give it up. To retire from active
service is something less. To retire from regular active
service is still further removed from resignation.

By re-

tiring, a federal judge does not retire from office or wholly
from active service, but in the words of the statute, only
"from regular active service."

The service he does per-

* Together with No. 657, Amidon v.

from the Court of Claims.

United States, certificate

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for the Judges.

291 U.S.

form is active, though it may not be regular. He is not
disqualified to perform the same service as before retirement. Cf. United States v. Tyler, 105 U.S. 244; Kahn v.
Anderson, 255 U.S. 1, 6.
If a retired judge ceases to hold office, he may not constitutionally serve as a judge. This statute has now been
in effect fourteen years, and during that time retired
federal judges have performed a vast amount of judicial
labor. It is too late to say that by retirement they ceased
to hold office and that this judicial service has been without authority of law.
The Act was intended to allow retired judges to continue in office. It merely grants them a surcease of that
amount of judicial labor too exacting for men of their
age and long ervice. It reduces their labors but not their
powers. When they sit as judges, they are clothed with
all the powers of judicial office. It provides two judges
for the work previously done by one. It prescribes the
rule of seniority between active and retired judges, and
thus treats both as judges, holding the same office. Retirement makes little legal difference between the functions of active and retired judges. The provision for
designating retired judges for certain service finds a
counterpart in the law relating to active judges (§ 13,
Jud. Code, 36 Stat. 1089). Even an active judge is under no more than a moral obligation to perform all of
the judicial duties which his health permits and the business of his court demands. Retired judges do not receive
new commissions. They continue to act under their original commissions. Retired district judges, without any
designation from the senior circuit judge, may continue to
function in their own districts. Maxwell v. United States,
3 F. (2d) 906, aff'd, 271 U.S.. 647. See McDonough v.
United States, 1 F. (2d) 147.
Some words in § 260 of the Judicial Code, relating to
retirement, are not carefully chosen. It speaks' of the

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
339

Argument for the United States.

appointment of a " successor" to a retired judge, and
in the last paragraph, of "vacancies" caused by retirement. These words mean "successor" as regular active
judge, and " vacancies" in the regular active list.
Concerning the intent of the Act, see Cong. Rec., 65th
Cong., 3d Sess., Vol. 57, Pt. 1, pp. 368-369, 428; Ruling of
the Comptroller General of July 13, 1932 (unpublished).
A diminution after an increase of compensation, even
though not a reduction below the rate at date of appointment, is a diminution within the letter and spirit of § 1,
Art. III, of the Constitution. Evans v. Gore, 253 U.S.
245, 253; The Federalist (No. 79) ; O'Donoghue v. United
States, 289 U.S. 516; Protest by Chief Justice Taney, 157
U.S. 701; James v. United States, 202 U.S. 401; Miles v.
Graham, 268 U.S. 501; Long v. Watts, 183 N.C. 99; New
Orleans v. Lea, 14 La. Ann. Rep. 197; Commonwealth ex
rel. Hepburn v. Mann, 5 W. & S. 403.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Wideman and Messrs. H. Brian Holland and
Paul A. Sweeney were on the brief, for the United States.
A judge "retiring" under Jud. Code, § 260, is under no
obligation to perform any judicial duties whatever.
Whether or not he renders any service, he receives his
former salary, not as compensation for services rendered,
but as a pension for past services.
The words of the Constitution are to be taken in their
ordinary, natural sense. The word "office" (Metcalf &
Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U.S. 514; United States v. Hartwell,
6 Wall. 385, 520; United States v. Maurice, Fed. Cas. No.
15747; Clark v. Stanley, 66 N.C. 59, 63; Bradford v. Justices, 33 Ga. 332, 336; Throop v. Langdoi; 40 Mich. 673,
682; Reed v. Schon, 2 Cal. App. 55; State v. Griswold, 73
Conn. 95, 97; United States v. Trice, 30 Fed. 490, 494;
State Prisonv. Day, 124 N.C. 362, 368) implies an obligation to render services-to perform the duties incident to

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for the United States.

291 U.S.

the position. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive of an
office to which no duties are attached. See Commonwealth v. Gamble, 62 Pa. St. 343, 349.
While the Constitution defines the powers of the
federal judiciary, it does not prescribe in detail the
duties. Those duties are, in the main, to be found in the
nature of the office as it grew up under the common law.
Some of the duties, however, are defined by statute.
Thus, district judges are required to hold court regularly
at stated places in their respective districts. Jud. Code,
§§ 70-115, as amended; 28 U.S.C., §§ 142-196. And it is
"the duty of each circuit judge in each circuit to sit as
one of the judges of the circuit court of appeals in that
circuit from time to time according to law." Jud. Code,
§ 118, as amended; 28 U.S.C., § 218. These duties, we
submit, although defined by statute as to the time and
place of performance, are an integral part of the constitutional office of judge. For refusal to hold court as
required by law, a judge may be impeached.
The Word "office" appears in both the tenure of office
provision and the provision relating to compensation. It
must be presumed to have the same meaning in both
places. "Tenure of office during good behavior imports
not only the length of the term but also the extent of
the service." Opinion of the Justices,271 Mass. 575, 580.
Congress, therefore, may not compel a judge to retire to
part time service against his will, because to do so would
be to deprive him of one of the essential elements of
office. It would seem to follow that if a judge voluntarily retires from regular, active service, he does not continue in office within the meaning of the Constitution.
It is argued that unless a retired judge remains ""in
office " he is necessarily without power to exercise judicial
authority, and that, conversely, if he has the right to perform judicial duties, as Congress intended he should, it
must follow that he remains in office within the meaning

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
339

Argument for the United States.

of the Third Article. Since the word "office" is obviously used by counsel for the plaintiffs with respect to
the compensation provision, the argument comes down to
this,-that the right to receive undiminishable compensation is necessarily and under all circumstances coaxtensive with the privilege to perform judicial duties.
Stated another way, the contention is that a judge can
not relinquish the right to a protected salary and at the
same time have the right, if called upon, to perform judicial duties. We submit that nothing in the Constitution
compels this conclusion.
The purpose of the tenure of office and compensation
provisions was to prevent the involuntary removal of a
judge during good behavior or the diminution of his
salary while he continues in office. It is doubtful whether
the framers of the Constitution envisaged the somewhat
anomalous situation of a judge being in office, in the sense
that he retains the power to act in a judicial capacity, and
at the same time being relieved of the duties and obligations incident to the office of judge. Nevertheless, while
Congress may not deprive a judge of the judicial powers
and privileges against his will, there is no constitutional
prohibition upon its permitting him to retire from active
service of his own volition. The only question is whether,
having availed himself of the privilege extended to him,
a judge may still claim the benefits and immunities conferred by Art. III.
The language of the Constitution should be interpreted
"in the light of the tacit assumptions upon which it is
reasonable to suppose that the language was used."
Popovici v. Agler, 280 U.S. 379, 383. While the framers
of that instrument were vitally interested in safeguarding the salaries of federal judges, they undoubtedly assumed that so long as a judge remained "in office" he
would perform all the duties attached to the position, and
that when he found hinself no longer able to perform

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for the United States.

291 U.S.

those duties efficiently, he would resign and cease to be
a judge. The Third Article provides that judges shall
receive "for their services" a compensation. It can not
have been intended that this compensation was to be paid
fpr services to be rendered at will. By accepting the office a judge obligates himself to discharge all the duties of
the office. The word "services" must mean the services commonly rendered by a judge-those which it is
his duty to render. Thus, although the amount of compensation or salary does not depend upon the quantum
of service, which may vary from time to time and from
place to place, it was beyond reasonable doubt intended
as consideration for performance of those duties which
a judge is under obligation to perform. Cf. Benedict v.
United States, 176 U.S. 357, 360.
It is, we submit, palpably unsound to say that the duty
devolving upon a judge, who has accepted office and taken
an oath faithfully to discharge and perform all the duties
incumbent upon him as judge according to the best of his
abilities, is the same as or in any way analogous to the
obligation of a retired judge who has been relieved of the
performance of the duties which he was required to perform prior to his retirement.
Since a retired judge is under no obligation other than
that imposed by conscience, his salary can not be regarded
as compensation in the usual sense. We submit, despite
the statements quoted by the plaintiffs from the debates
in Congress, that in reality retired pay is more analogous
to a pension than to the compensation of a judge in regular active service. Such retired pay is not given by way
of consideration for the discharge of Uuties in praesenti,
but rather in recognition of services rendered in the past.
The provision that the President shall appoint a "successor" shows that the retirement creates a vacancy
which must be filled. Since.the new judge is a successor
to the old one, there was no need to make provision for or

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
339

345

Argument for the United States.

against the appointment of another judge upon the death
or resignation of the one who has retired, for there is then
no vacancy to be filled, the vacancy having occurred when
the retirement took place. These provisions are in striking contrast to those authorizing the appointment of an
additional judge when a judge who is eligible for retirement and unable to discharge efficiently all the duties of
his office "shall nevertheless remain in office and not resign or retire." In such a case the new judge is in no
sense a "successor."
He can not succeed to an office
which is still occupied. A vacancy does not occur until
the death, resignation, or retirement of the disabled judge,
but the Act recognizes that there is a vacancy at that time
and expressly provides that when such vacancy occurs it
.shall not be filled. See People v. Duane, 121 N.Y. 367.
The word "successor" is a word of fixed meaning.
The effect of the retirement provisions has been considered in only two cases, neither of which, we submit,
has any direct bearing upon the question here involved.
Maxwell v. United States, 3 F. (2d) 906, aff'd, 271 U.S.
647; McDonough v. United States, 1 F. (2d) 147, cert.
den., 266 U.S. 613.
The limitations upon the power of Congress appearing
in § 1 of Article III were designed to protect the judiciary
as a whole rather than to benefit any individual member
or members thereof. Evans v. Gore, 253 U.S. 245, 253.
For more than eighty years after the ratification of the
Constitution, there was no provision for the payment of
pensions to resigned judges, and even at the present time
the privilege of retirement is not open to Justices of this
Court.
A diminution after an increase in compensation, even
though the compensation is not reduced below the amount
fixed by law at the date of the judge's appointment, would
seem to be contrary to the intent of the Third Article of
the Constitution. James v. United States, 202 U.S. 401;

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Evans v. Gore, 253 U.S. 245; Commonwealth.ex rel. Hepburn v. Mann, 5 W. & S. 403. See also New Orleans v.
Lea, 14 La. Ann. 197.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Court of Claims has certified two questions:
" 1. Does a Unitea States District or Circuit Judge who,
having served continuously for ten years and attained the
age of seventy years, does not resign but retires under
the provisions of section 260 of the Judicial Code, as
amended, continue in office within the meaning of section
1 of article III of the Constitution which forbids diminution of the compensation of Judges during their continuance in office?
"2. Where the salary of a United States District or
Circuit Judge is increased by law after his appointment
and he has subsequently retired in full compliance with
the provisions of section 260 of the Judicial Code, as
amended; is a reduction of his compensation as a retired
Judge to an amount not below that fixed by law as his
salary at the time of his appointment a diminution of
his compensation within the meaning of section 1 of article
III of the Constitution?"
We are informed by the, certificate in No. 656 that
Wilbur F. Booth was appointed United States Circuit
Judge for the Eighth Judicial Circuit on March 18, 1925,
and qualified March 27, 1925. For many years prior to
and up to the time of this appointment he had held the
office of judge of the United States District Court for the
District of Minnesota, and on November 28, 1931, he had
'served continuously as District or Circuit Judge for more
than seventeen years. January 1, 1932, having attained
the age of seventy, he retired, pursuant to the provisions
of § 260 of the Judicial Code as amended. Since his
retirement he has continued to perform the duties of a

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
339

Opinion of the Court.,

retired United States Circuit Judge in the manner provided by law, and has participated in the hearing and
decision of many cases pending in the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
At the time of Judge Booth's appointment as Circuit
Judge the annual compensation was fixed by law at $8,500
per annum. It was subsequently increased to $12,500
per annum, at which figure it stood when he retired. By
§ 13 of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act of June
16, 1933 [c. 101, 48 Stat. 283, 307] it was provided:
"For the period of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1933,
remaining after the date of the enactment of this Act, and
during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, the retired
pay of judges (whose compensation, prior to retirement
or resignation, could not, under the Constitution, have
been diminished) is reduced by 15 per centum."
By reason of this Act the plaintiff was paid during
the period from June 15, 19.33, to October 1, 1933, at the
rate of $10,625 pr.i annum. The amount withheld from
him during that period was $697.93. He duly protested
against the reduction, and brought suit in the Court of
Claims, asserting that the Act violates the provision of the
Constitution which forbids diminution of the compensation of federal judges during their continuance in office.
The Government demurred to the petition.
The relevant facts certified in No. 657 are that Charles
F. Amidon was appointed Judge of the United States
District Court for the District of North Dakota on February 18, 1897, and qualified on February 27, 1897. From
the date last mentioned to June 2, 1928, he served continuously in that capacity. Having attained the age of
seventy years he retired June 2, 1928, pursuant to
§ 260 of the Judicial Code as amended, and has ever
since continued to perform the duties of a retired United
States District'Judge in the manner required by law,
and has, as conditions pe-mitted and the business of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

court demanded, performed judicial acts as such retired
judge.
At the date of his appointment the salary of the office
was fixed by law at the rate of $5,000 per annum. It has
been increased from time to time and at the date of plaintiff's retirement was at the rate of $10,000 per annum.
Pursuant to § 13 of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, supra, he received, during the period from
June 15, 1933, to October 31, 1933, compensation at the
rate of $8,500 per annum. He protested against the reduction and brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover the sum of $558.34, the amount withheld during
the period mentioned. The Government demurred to the
petition.
The pertinent portion of § 1 of Article III of the Constitution is:
"The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts,
shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall,
at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office."
1. The first question asks, in effect, whether a United
States Judge, upon retirement, relinquishes or retains his
office. The answer is to be found in the Act of Congress
authorizing retirement.' That Act provides for resignaJudicial Code, § 260, as amended by the Act of February 25, 1919,
c. 29, § 6, 40 Stat. 1157, U.S.C. Title 28, § 375; and the Act of March
1, 1929, c. 419, 45 Stat. 1422:
"When any judge of any court of the United States, appointed to
hold his office during good behavior, resigns his office after having
held a commission or commissions as judge of any such court or courts
at least ten years, continuously [or otherwise], and having attained the
age of seventy years, he shall, during the residue of his natural life,
receive the salary which is payable at the time of his resignation for
the office that he held at the time of his resignation. But, instead of
resigning, any judge other than a justice of the Supreme Court, who

is qualified to resign under the foregoing provisions, may retire, upon

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
339

Opinion of the Court.

tion and for retirement. In referring to the former it
uses the expression "When any judge . . . resigns his
office . . .," and provides for continuance of compensation after resignation. In contrast it declares, " But,
the salary of which he is then in receipt, from regular active service
on the bench, and the President shall thereupon be authorized to appoint a successor; but a judge so retiring may nevertheless be called
upon by the senior circuit judge of that circuit and be by him authorized to perform such judicial duties in such circuit as such retired
judge may be willing to undertake, or he may be called upon by the
Chief Justice and be by him authorized to perform such judicial duties
in any other circuit as such retired judge may be willing to undertake
or he may be called upon either by the presiding judge or senior judge
of any other such court and Je by him authorized to perform such
judicial duties in such court as such retired judge may be willing to
undertake.
"In the event any circfiit judge, or district judge, having so held a
commission or commissions at least ten years, continuously [or otherwise], and having attained the age of seventy years as aforesaid, shall
nevertheless remain in office, and not resign or retire as aforesaid, the
President, if he finds any such judge is unable to discharge efficiently
all the duties of his office by reason of mental or physical disability of
permanent character, may, when necessary for the efficient dispatch
of business, appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, an additional circuit judge of the circuit or district judge of the
district to which such disabled judge belongs. And the judge so retiring voluntarily, or whose mental or physical condition caused the
President to appoint an additional judge, shall be held and treated as
if junior in commission to the remaining judges of said court, who
shall, in the order of the seniority of their respective commissions,
exercise such powers and perform such duties as by law may be incident to seniority. In districts where there may be more than one district judge, if the judges or a majority of them can not agree upon the
appointment of officials of the court, to be appointed by such judges,
then the senior judge shall have the power to make such appointments.
"Upon the death, resignation, or retirement of any circuit or district judge, so entitled to resign, following the appointment of any
additional judge as provided in this section, the vacancy caused by
such death, resignation, or retirement of the said judge so entitled to
resign shall not be filled." The words enclosed in brackets were added
by the Act of March 1, 1929.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

instead of resigning, any judge . . .who is qualified to
resign under the foregoing provisions, may retire, upon
the salary of which he is then in receipt, from regular
active service on the bench, . . ." not, be it noted, from
office. The retiring judge may be called upon by the
senior circuit judge to perform judicial duties in his own
circuit or by the Chief Justice to perform them in another
circuit, and be authorized to perform such as he may be
willing to undertake. There is provision for appointment by the President of an additional judge for the circuit or district court where a sitting judge is found unable
efficiently to discharge all his duties by reason of mental
or physical infirmity of a permanent character. In that
case the sitting judge unquestionably retains his office;
and it is significant that the act declares either a retired
judge, or one whose mental or physical condition has
caused the President to appoint an additional judge, shall
be treated as junior to the remaining judges of the court.
By retiring pursuant to the statute a judge does not
relinquish his office. The language is that he may retire
from regular active service. The purpose is, however,
that he shall continue, so far as his age and his health
permit, to perform judicial service, and it is common
knowledge that retired judges have, in fact, discharged a
large measure of the duties which would be incumbent
on them, if still in regular active service. It is scarcely
necessary to say that a retired judge's judicial acts would
be illegal unless he who performed them held the office
of judge. It is a contradiction in terms to assert that
one who has retired in accordance with the statute may
continue to function as a federal judge and yet not hold
the office of a judge. The Act does not and, indeed, could
not, endue him with a new office, different from, but embracing the duties of the office of judge. lie does not

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
339

Opinion of the Court.

surrender his commission, but continues to act under it.
He loses his seniority in office, but that fact, in itself,
attests that he remains in office. A retired District
Judge need not be assigned to sit in his own district.
Maxwell v. United States, 3 F. (2d) 906; affirmed 271
U.S. 647. And if a retired judge is called upon by the
Chief Justice or a Senior Circuit Judge to sit in another
district or circuit, and he responds and serves there, his
status is the same as that of any active judge, so called.
McDonough v. United States, 1 F. (2d) 147. It is impossible that this should be true, and that at the same
time the judge should hold no office under the United
States.
The Government argues that the holding of an office
involves the performance of duties, and since no duties
are obligatory on one who has retired under the Act, he
cannot be said to hold any office. But Congress may
lighten judicial duties, though it is without power to
abolish the office or to diminish the compensation appertaining to it. This was the evident purpose; and the
statements made by the member in charge of the bill on
the floor of the House show that it was expected, as has
proved to be the case, that retired judges would render
valuable judicial service. Cong. Rec. 65th Cong. 3d
Seas. Vol. 57, Part 1, pp. 368-369. It is too late to
contend that services so performed were extra-legal and
unconstitutional.
Some reference is made to the fact that under the Act
a successor to the retiring judge is to be appointed-, and
it is claimed the direction is inconsistent with his retention of office. The phraseology may not be well chosen,
but it cannot be construed to vacate the office of the
retiring judge, in the light of the evident purpose that
he shall continue to hold office and perform official duties.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1933;
Syllabus.

291 U.S..

2. Does the Constitution prohibit reduction of the compensation which was fixed by law at the time of appointment or that to which the judge was entitled at the date
of retirement?
In other words, is a diminution after an increase
banned, if the compensation notwithstanding the reduction remains in excess of that payable when the incumbent took office? The answer must be in the affirmative.
Several courts, in well-considered decisions, have so interpreted analogous provisions of state constitutions (Commonwealth ex rel. Hepburn v. Mann, 5 Watts & S. (Pa.)
403; New Orleans v. Lea, 14 La. Ann. 197; Long v. Watts,
183 N.C. 99; 110 S.E. 765), and the Solicitor General with
commendable candor admits that a contrary construction
would be subversive of the purpose of § 1 of Article III.
Question I Answered Yes.
Question 2 Answered Yes.
HARTFORD ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY CO. ET
v. N. 0. NELSON MANUFACTURING CO.

AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 239.

Argued January 12, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. On appeal from a judgment of the highest court of a State, in a
suit in which the validity of a statute of the State is challenged,
the decision of the state court as to the meaning of the statute is
binding upon this Court. P. 358.
2. A state statute providing that any bond executed after its enactment for the faithful performance of a building contract shall inure
to the benefit of materialmen and laborers notwithstanding any
provision of the bond to the contrary, is not an arbitrary restraint
upon the liberty of contract enjoyed by surety companies under
the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 358, 359.
So held where the bond was not required by the statute and
where statutory effects of its voluntary execution were to exempt
the building contract and the moneys collected or payable under it
from statutory rights that would otherwise exist for protection of

