LOCAL 167 v. UNITED STATES.

293

Syllabus.

LOCAL 167, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
TEAMSTERS, ETC., ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 6.

Argued January 17, i8, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. Failure to comply with 28 U.S.C., § 862, and Rule 9 in respect of
assignment of errors may be taken as sufficient ground for dismissal.
P. 296.
2. Control of the handling, sales and prices of commodities at tne
place of origin before their interstate journey begins, or in the
State of destination where the interstate movement ends, may
operate. directly to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce.
P. 297.
3. The Sherman Act denounces every conspiracy in restraint of
interstate trade, including those that are to be carried on by acts
constituting intrastate transactions. P. 297.
4. In the presence of evidence of a highly organized scheme and conspiracy, maintained by the levy, collection and expenditure of enormous sums, for the purpose of dominating a great and permanent
business, the defense of abandonment requires definite proofabandonment can not be presumed. P. 297.
5. The silence of defendants whom the evidence tends to implicate
and who were present at the taking of the testimony, is evidence
of the persistence of the conspiracy and of their participation in it.
P. 298.
6. In a suit under the Sherman Act to enjoin a conspiracy, parties
who have been convicted in a criminal prosecution for the same
conspiracy are estopped to deny their connection with it before
.the indictment. P. 298.
7. A decree of injunction under the Sherman Law should enjoin acts
of the sort that are shown by the evidence to have been done or
threatened in furtherance of the conspiracy; it should be broad
enough to prevent evasion, and doubts as to the scope of its prohibitions should be resolved in favor of the Government and against
the conspirators. P. 299.
8. Intrastate acts will be enjoined whenever necessary or appropriate
for the protection of interstate commerce against any restraint
denounced by the statute. P. 299.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

from a decree of injunction under the Sherman
Antitrust Act. For opinions of the District Court in connection with some of the interlocutory rulings, see 44 F.
(2d) 393 and 53.F. (2d) 518.
APPEAL

Mr. Samuel H. Kaufman, with whom Mr. Nathan D.
Perlman was on the brief, for appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Stephens, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Charles H. Weston and
Walter L. Rice were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

The decree appealed from is an injunction against a
conspiracy commenced in May, 1927, by the appellants
and others to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce
in live and freshly dressed poultry in violation of §§ 1 and
2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, 15 U.S.C., §§ 1,2. Most
of the issues were litigated before the same court in a
criminal prosecution commenced August 28, 1928. Sixtyfive of the defendants in this case were there convicted
November 21, 1929. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed.*
This suit was commenced February 7, 1930. The defendants are the Greater New York Live Poultry Chamber of Commerce, Local 167 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Jobbers and Stablemen
of America, the Official Orthodox Poultry Slaughterers of
America, Inc., called the shochtim union, and 100 individuals, 75 of whom are wholesalers, hereafter called marketmen. The Chamber is an association of marketmen.
The members of Local 167 haul live poultry. Shochtim
are the only persons qualified to slaughter poultry in
accordance with Jewish dietary laws; they are employed
by the marketmen.
* 47 F. (2d) 156.

Certiorari denied, 283 U.S.

837.

LOCAL 167 v. UNITED STATES.
293

Opinion of the Court.

Live poultry for sale and consumption in the New York
metropolitan area continuously moves in great volume
from points in distant States to commission men, called
receivers, at railroad terminals in Manhattan and Jersey
City. The receivers sell to marketmen. The larger part
of the poultry is delivered directly from the cars; the
remainder from stands maintained by the receivers. The
purchasers have the coops loaded on trucks and hauled to
their places of business where, without avoidable delay,
they sell, slaughter and deliver to retailers. Marketmen
organized the Chamber of Commerce and allocated retailers among themselves and agreed to and did increase
prices. The Chamber, through a levy of a cent a pound
upon poultry sold by the marketmen, raised moneymore thn $1,000,000 in the first year-to pay for enforceinent activities. To accomplish various purposes of the
conspiracy, the conspirators hired men to obstruct the
business of dealers who resisted. They spied on wholesalers and retailers and by violence and other forms of
intimidation prevented them from freely purchasing live
poultry. And, for like purpose and to extort money for
themselves and their associates, members of Local 167 refused to handle poultry for recalcitrant marketmen, and
members of the shochtim union refused to slaughter.
The petition contains allegations identical with those
of the indictment as to the conspiracy and the means
used to carry it into effect. The convicted defendants denied all the material allegations. On the Government's
motion the court struck out as sham their denials of the
conspiracy prior to the commencement of the criminal
prosecution but let stand their denials of its continuance
after that date. Decree was entered against 52 defendants by consent. Among the 49 resisting were the Chamber of Commerce, Local 167, the shochtim union and 29
individuals who had been convicted. At the conclusion
of the evidence the trial judge in an oral opinion stated
that, except as to two individual defendants, every mate-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

rial allegation had been proved. In accordance with that
ruling the court later made findings of fact, stated its conclusions of law and entered a comprehensive decree. Only
Local 167, the shochtim union and 14 individuals, members of the one or the other union, have appealed.
In their brief and oral argument appellants contend:
(1) there is no proof that they intended to restrain or did
interfere with interstate commerce; (2) if ever concerned
in the conspiracy, they voluntarily abandoned it before
this suit was commenced, and there is no probability of
resumption; (3) there is no credible evidence against
Weiner, Rosenman and Markman; (4) the court erred
in striking out as sham the denials of convicted defendants; (5) the decree should be modified by eliminating
a paragraph that enjoins them in respect of both interstate and intrastate commerce and by limiting the injunction to interstate commerce.
The assignment of errors includes more than 250 specifications and occupies more than 35 pages of the record.
While it is possible to find among them bases for the five
points indicated, they contain so much that is irrelevant
that they tend to confuse rather than to define the issues
to be presented. They do not appropriately serve the
convenience of the appellee or of the court. Phillips &
Colby Const. Co. v. Seymour, 91 U.S. 646, 648. Central
Vermont Ry. v. White, 238 U.S. 507, 508. Chesapeake
& Del. Canal Co. v. United States, 250 U.S. 123, 124.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Watson, 287 U.S. 86, 91. In
view of the omission of appellee to object and the lack of
precedent definitely in point we refrain from dismissing
the appeal for failure substantially to comply with the
statute and our rule in respect of the assignment of errors.
28 U.S.C., § 862. Rule 9. But what is here said is to
be understood as an announcement that in the future a
failure of that sort may be taken as sufficient ground for
dismissal.

LOCAL 167 v. UNITED STATES.
293

Opinion of the Court.

Appellants' contention that there is no proof that they
intended to restrain or did interfere with interstate commerce has no merit.
The evidence shows that they and other defendants
conspired to burden the free movement of live poultry
into the metropolitan area. It may be assumed that some
time after delivery of carload lots by interstate carriers
to the receivers the movement of the poultry ceases to
be interstate commerce. Public Utilities Comm'n v. Landon, 249 U.S. 236, 245. Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., 265
U.S. 298, 309. East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 283
U.S. 465, 470-471. But we need not decide when interstate commerce ends and that which is intrastate begins.
The control of the handling, the sales and the prices at
the place of origin before the interstate journey begins
or in the State of destination where the interstate movement ends may operate directly to restrain and monopolize interstate commerce. United States v. Brims, 272
U.S. 549. Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers,
268 U.S. 295, 310. United States v. Swift & Co., 122 Fed.
529, 532-533. Cf. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U.S.
375, 398. The Sherman Act denounces every conspiracy
in restraint of trade including those that are to be carried
on by acts constituting intrastate transactions. Bedford
Co. v. Stone Cutters Assn., 274 U.S. 37, 46. Loewe v.
Lawlor, 208 U.S. 274, 301. The interference by appellants
and others with the unloading, the transportation, the
sales by marketmen to retailers, the prices charged and
the amount of profits exacted operates substantially and
directly to restrain and burden the untrammeled shipment and movement of the poultry while unquestionably
it is in interstate commerce.
Appellants' contention that the proof shows that they
abandoned the conspiracy before the commencement of
this suit cannot be sustained.
The conspiracy was not for a temporary purpose .but
to dominate a great and permanent business. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

highly organized and maintained by the levy, collection
and expenditure of enormous sunis. In the absence of
definite proof to that effect, abandonment will not be
presumed. Hyde v. United States, 225 U.S. 347, 369.
Nyquist v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 504, 505. The Government introduced substantial evidence which uncontradicted and unexplained tends to show that the conspiracy and appellants' participation continued until the
filing of the amended complaint. They were present in
court but failed to testify in their own defense. It justly
may be inferred that they were unable to show that they
had abandoned the conspiracy and did not intend further to participate in it. Under the circumstances of this
case their silence rightly is to be deemed strong confirmation of the charges brought against them. Mammoth
Oil Co. v. United States, 275 U.S. 13, 52. Bilokumsky v.
Tod, 263 U.S. 149, 154.
There was evidence tending to show that Weiner, Rosenman and Markman were connected with the conspiracy.
All were present but none testified. As on cross-examination full disclosure would have been called for, failure
to take the witness stand strongly suggests that they could
not give an account of their conduct that would be consistent with the denial interposed by answer or tend to
repel what had been shown against them. The district
court rightly held them to be parties to the conspiracy.
The judgment in the criminal case conclusively established in favor of the United States and against those
who were found guilty that within the period covered by
the indictment the latter were parties to the conspiracy
charged. The complaint in this suit includes the allegations on which that prosecution was based. The defendants in this suit who had been there convicted could not
require proof of what had been duly adjudged between
the parties. And, to the extent that the answers attempted to deny participation of convicted defendants
in the conspiracy of which they had been found guilty,

LOCAL 167- v. UNITED STATES.
293

299

Opinion of the Court.

they are false and sham and the district court rightly so
treated them. Oklahoma v. Texas, 256 U.S. 70, 85. Cf.
Coffey v. United.States, 116 U.S. 436, 442. Stone v.
United States, 167 U.S. 178, 184.
Appellants seek elimination of the provision of the
decree that enjoins them from using any of the offices
or positions in Local 167 or the shochtim union "for the
purpose of coercing marketmen to buy poultry, poultry
feed, or other commodities necessary to the poultry business from particular sellers thereof." The United States
is entitled to effective relief. To that end the decree
should enjoin acts of the sort that are shown by the evidence to have been done or threatened in furtherance
of the conspiracy. It should be broad enough to prevent
evasion. In framing its provisions doubts should be resolved in favor of the Government and against the conspirators. Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U.S. 526, 532.
The evidence shows that delegates of the unions coerced
marketmen to use coops of a company that had or sought
to secure a monopoly of such facilities and charged excessive rentals for them. The lack of specific evidence that
coercion has been practiced or is threatened in respect
of every detail or commodity is no adequate ground for
striking out the clause or for limiting it to a mere specification of the coops. Having been shown guilty of coercion in respect of the coops in which poultry is kept and
fed, appellants may not complain if the injunction binds
generally as to related commodities including feed and
the like. When regard is had to the evidence disclosing
the numerous purposes of the conspiracy and the acts
of coercion customarily employed by defendants, it is
plain that the clause referred to cannot be condemned as
unnecessary or without warrant.
And, maintaining that interstate commerce ended with
the sales by receivers to marketmen, appellants insist that
the injunction should only prevent acts that restrain commerce up to that point. But intrastate acts will be en-

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

291 U.S.

joined whenever necessary or appropriate for the protection of interstate commerce against any restraint denounced by the Act. Bedford Co. v. Stone Cutters Assn.,

ubi supra. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221
U.S. 418, 438. In this case the evidence fully sustains the
decree.
Affirmed.
PACIFIC TELEPHONE

& TELEGRAPH

SEATTLE

CO. v.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 364.

Argued January 15, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. A city ordinance imposing a license tax on a telephone company
measured on the gross income from its business in the city, and
providing penalties for delay in payment, can not be held violative
of due process upon the ground of being too vague and indefinite

to enable the taxpayer to compute the amount of its tax, where
the ordinance does not purport to give the final definition of the
taxpayer's obligation but leaves that to be done by an administrative official through regulations and forms for tax returns, which
are not shown 'to have been prepared, and where the duty to make
return and pay any part of the tax can not arise under the ordinance until such forms are available. P. 303.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment does not require that legal duties
shall be defined by any particular agency of the state government.
P. 303.
3, The demands of due process are satisfied if reasonably clear definition is afforded in time to give the 'taxpayer an opportunity to
-comply. P. 304.
172 Wash. 649; 21 P. (2d) 721, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a

suit to restrain the collection of a tax.
Mr. Otto B. Rupp, with whom Mr. Alfred Sutro was on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Walter L. Baumgartner,with whom Mr. A. C. Van
Soelen was on the brief, for appellees.

