OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

Secretary rightly may have deemed that her admitted
intention temporarily to continue, when coupled with environment, opportunity and temptation under which
habitual transgression had developed and for years persisted, amounted to a fixed purpose indefinitely to remain
in concubinage. That is enough.
And there is nothing in the opinion in United States v.
Bitty, supra, or elsewhere, to support the .idea that Congress intended to keep out only those coming exclusively
for the purposes referred to and to admit prostitutes, concubines and the like intending to follow legitimate occupation while practicing, incidentally or otherwise, any of
the immoralities covered by the statute. Indeed, the
court's opinion implies that if concubinage were her principal Or. primary purpose she ought to be excluded even
though she intended regularly to pursue her work as a
domestic. The. making of exclusion to depend upon the
determination whether the immoral purpose is dominant
or subordinate goes far to strike down the statute by
making its enforcement difficult and in many cases practically impossible. Congress undoubtedly intended to exclude those who entertain a purpose here to practice prostitution or immorality of that sort. That is the construction adopted by the Secretary, the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals. They are right. Petitioner's application for a writ of habeas corpus was properly denied.
LIFE & CASUALTY INSURANCE CO. OF TENNESSEE v. McCRAY.'
APPEAL FROM THh SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 89.

Argued February 5, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1.-A state statute by' which a life insurance company, if it fail to
pay upon demand the amount due under a policy after death of
the insured, is made liable in addition for fixed damages, reasou-

LIFE & CASUALTY CO. v. McCRAY.
566

Opinion of the Court.

able in amount, and for a reasonable attorney's fee for collection,
to be taxed by the court, is consistent with the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, even
though payment of the policy was resisted in good faith and upon
reasonable grounds. Pp. 569-570.
So held where the statute was in effect when the policy was
issued.
2. The nature of the insurance business and the peculiar hardships
commonly experienced by the beneficiary when payment does not
follow promptly the death of the insured, justify these special
requirements. Pp. 569-570.
3. Damages of twelve per cent. of the face of the policy (the amount
fixed by the Arkansas statute here under consideration) can not
be adjudged unreasonable and oppressive, in view of the contrary
finding implied in the statute itself and of like measures in other
States long acquiesced in. P. 570.
4. The presumption of validity which applies to legislation generally,
is fortified by continued acquiescence. P. 572.
5. A statutory penalty for refusal to pay an obligation when due
may be unconstitutional if so extravagant in amount as to deter
the honest debtor from making a bona fide defense in court, and
yet may be valid if the amount be gauged reasonably as a stimulus
to prompt settlement 'and as compensation to the creditor in case
of delay. P. 572.
187 Ark. 49; 58 S.W. (2d) 199, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a recovery in an
action on a policy of life insurance. Twelve per cent.
damages and attorneys' fees were included in the
judgment.
Mr. Moreau P. Estes, with whom Messrs. P. M. Estes
and Myron T. Nailling were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Joseph M. Hill and Henry L. Fitzhugh submitted for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On March 3, 1930, the appellant, an insurance company,
issued to Jonas McCray a policy of life insurance for $500

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

payable to his wife, the appellee in this court. The policy
lapsed in June, 1931, for non-payment of a premium within the period of grace, but in August, 1931, it was reinstated with the company's consent. On May 10, 1932,
the insured committed suicide. If suicide occurred within
a year from the date of issue of the policy, the insurer's
liability was limited to a return of any premiums paid by
the insured. If suicide occurred after the expiration of
the year, the liability was the same as upon a death from
other causes. The appellee made proof of claim against
the insurer, .insisting that the year was to be calculated
from the original date of issue. The company refused
payment upon the ground that the year was to be calculated from the time of reinstatement. Judgment went
against the insurer in the trial court, and again, upon
appeal, in the Supreme Court of the State. 187 Ark. 49;
58 S.W. (2d) 199. The controversy here grows out of the
amount of the recovery. To the face of the policy with
interest at six per cent there were added certain statutory
allowances, which are contested in this court. One of
the additions was an attorney's fee of $200 ($100 for the
trial and $100 for the appeal). The other was an award
of twelve per cent computed on the payments due under
the contract. These increments are authorized by *a
statute of Arkansas which is quoted in the margin.' The
'Section 6155, Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas (Crawford &
Moses, 1921): " In all cases where loss occurs, and the fire, life,
health, or accident insurance company liable therefor shall fail to pay
the same within the time specified in the policy, after demand made
therefor, such company shall be liable to pay the holder of such
policy, in addition to the amount of such loss, twelve per cent. damages upon the amount of such loss, together with all reasonable attorneys' fees for the prosecution and collection of said loss; said attorneys" fees to be taxed by the Court where the same is heard on original action, by appeal or otherwise and to be taxed up as a part of
the costs therein and collected as other costs afe or may be by law
collected."

LIFE & CASUALTY CO. v. McCRAY.
566

Opinion of the Court.

insurer contests the validitr of the statute, insisting that
it is condemned by the Fourteenth Amendment. The
case is here upon appeal.
1. The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit the
award of an attorney's fee, moderate in amount, when
payment of a policy of life insurance has been wrongfully
refused.
We assume in accordance with the assumption of the
court below that payment was resisted in good faith and
upon reasonable grounds. Even so, the unsuccessful defendant must pay the adversary's costs, and costs in the
discretion of the lawmakers may include the fees of an
attorney. There are systems of procedure neither arbitrary nor unenlightened, and of a stock akin to ours,
in which submission to such a burden is the normal lot
of the defeated litigant, whether plaintiff or defendant.
The taxing master in the English courts may allow the
charges of the barrister as well as the fees of the solicitor.2
Nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment forbids a like
procedure here. The assurance of due process has not
stereotyped bills of costs at the rates known to the
Fathers. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Nye Schneider
Fowler Co., 260 U.S. 35; Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U.S. 362,
368. Nor is there an unjust discrimination, an arbitrary
denial of the equal protection of the laws, in laying the
burden on insurers and not on all defendants. Diversity
of treatment in respect of the costs of litigation has its
origin and warrant in diversity of social needs. Dohany
v. Rogers, supra. Dependents left without a breadwinner
will be exposed to sore distress if life insurance payments
are extracted slowly and painfully, after costly contests in
the courts. Health and accident insurance will often be
'The practice under the law of England is explained clearly and
fully by Arthur L. Goodhart in the article "Costs" in his "Essays
in Jurisprudence and the Common Law," pp. 190, 198-201, first
published in 38 Yale L.J. 849.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the souirces from which the sick and the disabled are to
meet their weekly bills. Fire insurance moneys, if -withheld, may leave the business man or the householder without an office or a home. Classification prompted by these
needs is not tyrannical or arbitrary. As to that, the judgments of this court in situations precisely apposite have
set a closure to debate. Fidelity Mutual Life Assn. v.
Mettler, 185 U.S. 308; Iowa Life Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 187
U.S. 335; Farmers& Merchants Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189
U.S. 301.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit a
fixed award of damages, moderate in amount, in addition
to the costs and the fees of the attorney, when the payment of a policy of life insurance has been wrongfully
refused.
The appellant concedes that such an allowance is permissible when the refusal to pay is wanton or malicious.
FraternalMystic Circle v. Snyder, 227 U.S. 497. The
argument is that the allowance is to be condemned as a
denial of due process when the defense is in good faith and
on grounds not wholly frivolous. We find a different
meaning in the Constitution and the precedents. The
same social needs that sustain the award of an attorney's
fee when payment is resisted, sustain in like circumstances
an increment to the policy within the bounds of moderation. This is not a case where the increment has been
authorized after the writing of the policy. The statute
was enacted in 1905, and the insurance was written in
1930. Here at the delivery of the policy, the insurer was
informed that if it failed to make payment in accordance
with its contract, "twelve per cent damages" would be
owing to the insured. We discover nothing arbitrary or
oppressive in imposing such a contract upon the business
of insurance, a business subject, as all agree, to control
and regulation. Hardware Dealers Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v.
Glidden (Jo., 284 U.S. 151; O'Gorman & Young v. Hart-

LIFE & CASUALTY CO. v. McCRAY.
566

Opinion of the Court.

ford Fite Ins. Ca., 282 U.S. 251. There has been no failure to give heed to "the rudiments of fair play" (Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U.S. 165, 168), as
there was in St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224
U.S. 354, where the damages were imposed though the
insured had rejected a tender of what was due and had
made demand for more, or in Polt's case (supra), a suit
against a railroad for loss of property destroyed by fire
where the damages were unliquidated and yet the recovery was to be doubled if the verdict exceeded by a
penny what was offered by the wrongdoer. To nullify
this statute the appellant must be able to show that an
award of twelve per cent. is so extravagant in amount as
to outrun the bounds ol reason and result in sheer oppression. This we cannot bring ourselves to say in the
face of a contrary finding by the framers of the statute,
with all the presumptions of correctness attaching to their
judgment. Still less can we bring ourselves to say it in
the face of kindred statutes in force in other states.
The legislation now challenged is a sample of a type.
Statutes very similar have been adopted in Texas, Arizona,
Louisiana, and South Dakota. The Texas act, like this
one, calls for damages of 12% in addition to attorney's
fees. Texas Revised Civil Statutes, 1925, Art. 4736. In
Arizona, the increment is as high as 15%, though it is
limited to policies of insurance against fire. Arizona
Revised Code, 1928, § 1828. In Louisiana, the percentage
for fire policies is 12% and 25% for fire and theft losses
affecting automobiles. Louisiana General Statutes, 1932,
§§ 4179, 4246. In South Dakota there is an increment of
10%, confined to loss by fire. South Dakota Compiled
Laws, 1929, § 9195.
These statutes and others not unlike them have been
considered by this court without complaint or suggestion
that the percentage was too high. Thus, in Fidelity
Mutual Life Assn. v. Mettler, 185 U.S. 308, 325, 326,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of tlhe Court.

291 U.S.

the Texas statute was before .us. Carried forward now
into the revised codes, it was enacted for the first time in
1879. The attack upon its validity was confined to its
discriminatory features, the burden being laid upon some
forms of insurance, though inapplicable to others. This
court upheld the act as valid, and in so doing repeated
with apparent approval the ruling of the Supreme Court
of Texas (86 Tex. 654; 26 S.W. 982) that the twelve per
cent was given as damages for the failure to comply with
the contract by payment, and the fee as compensation
for the cost of collection. 185 U.S. at p. 325. During the
half century and more in which the act has been in force,
no one, it seems, has protested to any court that the percentage is immoderate. The same statute came before us
again in Iowa Life Ins. Co. v. Lewis, supra, at p. 355.
We renewed our approval, and said of our earlier opinion
(Fidelity Mutual Life Assn. v. Mettler): "We are . . .
entirely satisfied with the case and its reasoning." p. 355.
Cf. Farmers'& Merchants Ins. Co. v. Dobney, supra, at p.
305. The presumption of validity which applies to legislation generally is fortified by acquiescence continued
through the years. Corn Exchange Bank v. Coler, 280
U.S. 218'; Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U.S. 94.
The argument is made that the statutory percentage,
though it might be legitimate as an award of damages, is
illegitimate if intended as a penalty, a clog upon the privilege of access to the courts. The statute speaks of it as
"damages." There are places here and there in the
opinions of the Supreme Court of Arkansas where the
word penalty is used. Arkansas Insurance Co. v. McManus, 86 Ark. 115, 124, 125; 110 S.W. 797; Security
Insurance Co. v. Smith, 183 Ark. 254, 258; 35 S.W. (2d)
581; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Marsh, 185 Ark. 332; 47
S.W. (2d) 585. How little weight is to be given to this
use is perceived when we discover that upon one page of
an opinion the percentage is spoken of as a penalty and

LIFE & CASUALTY CO. v. McCRAY.
566

Opinion of the Court.

on another page of the same opinion is described as an
award of damages. See Arkansas Insurance Co. v. McManus, supra, with its quotation from Seaboard Air Line
Ry. v. Seegers, 207 U.S. 73, 77. There is little doubt that
the terms were thought of as equivalents.
The result will not be changed, however, though the
increment to the judgment be classified as penal, if the
amount is not immoderate. The measure, not the name,
controls. The insurer is not penalized for taking the controversy into court. It is penalized (if penalty there is)
for refusing to make. payment in accordance with its contract, and penalized in an amount that bears a reasonable proportion to the loss or inconvenience likely to be
suffered by the creditor. Repeated judgments of this
court bear witness to the truth that such a tax upon default is not put beyond the pale by calling it a penalty.
Thus, in Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. Co. v. Jackson
Vinegar Co., 226 U.S. 217, the court had before it a
Mississippi statute whereby a common carrier was required to settle claims within a stated time. If this was
not done, there was to be a liability to the consignee for
" twenty five dollars damages in each case, in addition to
actual damages," whenever the amount of the claim was
two hundred dollars or less. This court upheld the additional exaction though describing it as a penalty. The
statute did no more than provide "a reasonable incentive
for the prompt settlement without suit of just demands,"
and demands "of a class admitting of special legislative
treatment." Cf. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co.
v. Polt, supra, p. 168. In Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Seegers, supra, the penalty for delay was fifty dollars,
and the court was not deterred by the label from enforcing
the statute and adjudging its validity. There was approval of the statement of the court below that " the penalty, in case of a recovery in court " would operate "as a
deterrent of the carrier in refusing to settle just claims,

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

and as compensation of the claimant for ... trouble
and expense." More recently, in Chicago "&N. W. Ry.
Co. v. Nye Schneider Fowler Co., supra, a statute of
Nebraska prescribing the liability of carriers imposed a
charge of seven per cent on the amount of the recovery
as well as reasonable attorney's fees. We held that "a
reasonable penalty" (pp. 43, 45) might be assessed
against the wrongdoer as a stimulus to settlement without vexatious delay.
"Penalty" is a term of varying and uncertain meaning. There are penalties recoverable in vindication of
the public justice of the state. There are other penalties
designed as reparation to sufferers from wrongs. Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U.S. 657, 668; Brady v. Daly, 175
U.S. 148, 154, 157; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Williams, 251 U.S. 63, 66; Loucks v. Standard Oil Co., 224
N.Y. 99, 103; 120 N.E. 198. . One who refuses to pay
when the law requires that he shall, acts at his peril, in
the sense that he must be held to the acceptance of any
lawful consequences attached to the refusal. It is no
answer in such circumstances that he has acted in good
faith. "The law is full of instances where- a man's fate
depends on his estimating rightly, that is, as the jury
subsequently estimates it, some matter of degree." Nash
v. United States, 229 U.S. 373, 377. Reparation may still
be due, for all his good intentions, yet reparation within
bounds. It is all "a question of more or less." Sexton v.
Kessler & Co. 225 U.S. 90, 98. The price of error may be
so heavy as to erect an unfair barrier against the endeavor
of an honest litigant to obtain the judgment of a court.
In that event, the Constitution intervenes and keeps the
'Often the recovery is fixed at an unvarying amount because of the
difficulty of proving damages with accuracy in varying situations.
Brady v. Daly, supra; Chatterton v. Cave, [1878] 3 App. Cas. 483,
492; Cox v. Lykes Bros., 237 N.Y. 376, 379; 143 N.E. 226; Calvin
v. Huntley, 178 Mass. 29, 32; 59 N.E. 435.

LIFE & CASUALTY CO. v. BAREFIELD.
566

575

Statement of the Case.

court room open. Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123; Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235 U.S. 651, 661, 662.
On the other hand, the penalty may be no more than the
fair price of the adventure. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.
Co.v. Williams, supra, p. 66. In that event, the litigant
must pay. for his experience, like others who have tried
and lost.
3. Other objections affecting the merits of the recovery
have been put before us by the appellant in briefs and in
oral argument.
Our jurisdiction upon appeal from a judgment of a
state court does not permit us to review them.
4. To the extent that Standard Accident Ins. Co. v.
Rossi, 35 F. (2d) 667, and Inter-Southern Life Ins. Co.
v. McElroy, 38 F. (2d) 557, are inconsistent with this
opinion, we are unable to approve or follow them.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissent in respect of the

12% penalty or damages.
LIFE & CASUALTY INSURANCE CO. OF TENNESSEE v. BAREFIELD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 509. Argued February 5, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

Decided upon the authority of Life & Casualty Insurance Co. v.
McCray, ante, p. 566.
187 Ark. 676; 61 S.W. (2d) 698, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming a recovery on -an
accident insurance policy together with damages and
attorneys' fees.

