OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

should be reversed and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in No. 212 should be affirmed.
No. 158, reversed.
No. 212, affirmed.
WILLIAMS

v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208. Argued December 14, 1933.-Decided January 15, 1934.
1. A paid-up addition to a policy of life insurance is an amount added
to the face of the policy, paid for by a single premium, for which
there must be a legal reserve. P. 173.
2. This is the meaning of the term "dividend additions," as used in
Art. 7432, Par. 7, Rev. Civ. Stats. of Texas, 1925. P. 181.
3. A paid-up addition is distinct from extended insurance. P. 173.
4. The policy provided: "In the event of the death of the insured
during the days of grace, the current premium being unpaid, if no
other option has been elected, or if the policy shall lapse, the dividend then due shall be paid in cash." Held applicable where the
policy lapsed and the insured died after the days of grace. P. 174.
5. A level premium participating policy provided that upon lapse
for non-payment of premium, if the insured failed to exercise specified options, the dividend due him for the current year should be
paid him in cash, and the surrender value of the policy (defined
as equal to the reserve at the end of the policy year, less surrender
charges), together with the value of any paid-up additions, and
accumulations of dividends at interest, should be applied to the
extension of the policy as term insurance from the date to which
premiums had been paid, first deducting any indebtedness or advances on the policy. Held:
(1) That a current dividend as to which the insured had exercised no option, was inapplicable to increase the extension of
insurance but was payable in cash. P. 176.
(2) A dividend is no part of the surrender value. P. 176.
(3) The provisions as to paid-up additions and accumulations of,
dividends at interest have no relation to such current dividend or
to earlier dividends applied in reduction of premiums. P. 178.

WILLIAMS v. UNION CENTRAL CO.
170

Opinion of the Court.

6. Advances against surrender value do not create a personal liability
or debt of the insured, but are merely deductions from the sum
that the company ultimately must pay. P. 179.
7. The company has no right, without agreement with the insured,
to apply a dividend payable in cash under the policy to the reduction of an advance against the policy. P. 180.
8. While it is highly important that ambiguous clauses should not
be permitted to serve as traps for policyholders, it is equally
important, to the insured as well as to the insurer, that the provisions of insurance policies which are clearly and definitely set forth
in appropriate language, and upon which the calculations of the
company are based, should be maintained unimpaired by loose
and ill-considered interpretations. P. 180.
65 F. (2d) 240, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 613, to review a judgment reversing a recovery obtained by the present petitioner in an
action on a policy of life insurance. The case was removed to the District Court from a court of Texas, on
the ground of diversity of citizenship.

Mr. Harris 0. Williams, with whom Messrs. Charles
0. Harris, Charles Gibbs, and H. T. McGown were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Eugene P. Locke, with whom Mr. Stanley K. Henshaw was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This action was brought by petitioner as beneficiary of
a policy of insurance for $10,000 issued July 26, 1927,
upon the life of her husband, who died on October 15,
1931. Application for the policy was made and the policy
was delivered in the State of Texas. * A level premium of
$449.10 was payable annually on June 10th, and was paid
to and including June 10, 1930. The premium payable
on June 10, 1931, was not paid either af that time or
within the thirty-one days 'of grace allowed by the policy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

The "loan value" or "cash value" of the policy, as
shown by the table which the policy set forth, was then
$910. Loans against the policy, with interest, amounted
to $898.88. The policy was a participating one, and a
dividend of $74.80 was declared in favor of the insured on
June 10, 1931. If that dividend had been applied in
reduction of the amount advanced against the policy or
to the purchase of extended insurance, the result would
have been to extend the insurance beyond the date of the
death of the insured. Petitioner contends that the dividend should have been so applied. Respondent insists
that such application would have been contrary to the
terms of the policy and that, on the expiration of the
period of grace without payment of the premium due, the
policy lapsed and the dividend was payable in cash and
not otherwise.
Respondent's request for the direction of a verdict was
denied and the verdict and judgment went for petitioner.
The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 65 F. (2d) 240. This Court granted certiorari.
The policy gave the following options as to the disposition of dividends:
" 11. Dividend Options. Dividends may be withdrawn
in cash; or applied to the payment of premiums; or left
to accumulate with interest at three per cent, increased
from surplus interest earnings as apportioned by the Directors, until the maturity of the policy, subject to withdrawal at any time; or applied to the purchase of paid-up
participating additions to the policy, convertible into
cash at any time for the amount of the original dividends
or the reserve of the additions, if larger, but payment may
be deferred by the Company ninety days from the date
of application therefor."
There is no ambiguity in the terms of these options.
They are clear and definite in the terminology of insurance

WILLIAMS v. UNION CENTRAL CO.
170

Opinion of the Cofirt.

and each is to be applied with its distinctive significance.
No one of these options provides for the use of a dividend
to procure extended insurance.; that is, to procure an extension of the term of the insurance from the date to
which premiums have been paid, without any further
payment. Dividends may be withdrawn in cash or applied to the payment of premiums or left to accumulate
with interest subject to withdrawal at any time. The
further option to have dividends "applied to the purchase of paid-up participating additions to the policy"
is quite distinct from an option to procure extended
insurance. A "paid-up addition" to the policy, by the
application of a dividend, is the amount added to the
face of the policy and purchased by the use of the dividend as a single premium. For such paid-up additions,
there must be a legal reserve.
The insured did not exercise any one of the options
given by article 11. It appears that he had several other
policies issued by the same company, and in addition
to the amount advanced by the company he had borrowed certain amounts from the company's agents in Dallas, Texas. These agents, on September 18, 1931, obtained an order on the company, signed by the insured,
which directed payment to them of the dividend on the
policy in suit together with dividends on other policies.
On this order, the dividend here in question was paid to
the agents. Petitioner contested the order as having been
signed at a time when the insured did not have sufficient
mental capacity to understand the transaction. This issue of fact was decided by the jury in favor of petitioner
and the Circuit Court of Appeals did not pass upon the
sufficiency of the evidence in that relation. Nor do we
deal with that question. The only other indication of the
intention of the insured is sought to be drawn from a
statement in a letter addressed to the company by its

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court,

291 U.S.

agents on September 14, 1931, referring to a conversation
with the insured about September 1st. The agents said
that the insured had rejected their proposal for the use
of dividends on his policies in partial payment of his note
held by the agents, saying that "he was going to have
every nickel applied towards paying these policies as far
as it would carry them." We agree with the view of the
Circuit Court of Appeals that this statement was too indefinite to serve as a direction to the company to apply
the dividend in question in any particular way and, unless
the insurance had been extended under the provisions of
the policy, it had already lapsed and could be reinstated
only in accordance with the requirements of the policy,
that is, upon payment of premium arrears with interest
and satisfactory evidence of insurability. We are unable
to find any basis for the conclusion that the insured either
had, or attempted to exercise, any option to use the divi(lend to obtain extended insurance, and our decision must
turn upon the construction of the provisions of the policy
applicable to such a case.
Article 12 provides for the "automatic disposition " of
dividends as follows:
" 12. Automatic Disposition. On payment of the
premium, or on the policy anniversary if no further premium is payable, if no other option has been elected, the
dividend then due shall be applied to the purchase of
paid-up additions. In the event of the death of the insured during the days of grace, the current premium being
unpaid, if no other option has been elected, or if the
policy shall lapse, the dividend then due shall be paid in
cash. At the death of -he insured during the continuance
of the policy, the pro rata part of the dividend for the
current policy year shall be paid in cash."
The first sentence of article 12 is inapplicable as it
provides for the disposition of the dividend " on payment

WILLIAMS v. UNION CENTRAL CO.
170

Opinion of the Cohrt.

of the premium, or on the policy anniversary if no further premium is payable, if no other option has been
elected." The present case is not one where the premium
was paid or where on the "policy anniversary" no further
premium was payable. The first part of the second
sentence is also inapplicable, as the insured did not die
during the days of grace. It is also clear that the third
and last sentence does not apply. But the case does fall
directly within the alternative of the second sentence, " or.
if the policy shall lapse, the dividend then due shall be
paid incash." That is precisely this case. And this provision of the policy is in plain opposition to the contention that the dividend should be applied to an extension
of the insurance. The provision presupposes a dividend
due and the lapse of the policy for non-payment of
premium, and the dividend is then to be paid in cash.
Petitioner seeks to escape this definite stipulation by
invoking the provisions of the policy as to the use of the
"policy value" or "surrender value" in obtaining
extended insurance. After stating that the reserve of the
policy "is computed on the American Experience Table
of Mortality with interest 3/2%," the policy provides:
" 15. Surrender Value. After two full years' premiums
have been paid, the surrender value for each thousand
dollars of insurance is equal to the reserve at the end of
the policy year, omitting cents, except that in the second,
third and fourth policy years, it is equal to the reserve at
the end of the policy year, taken to the nearest dollar, less
surrender charges of $21, $13 and $6 respectively.
" 16. Policy Values. The surrender value may be used
at the option of the owner of the policy in any one of the
following ways, all of equal value, as set forth in the following tables, provided there be no indebtedness or advances on the policy. If, on failure to pay a premium, no

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

option is exercised, such value shall be applied as provided
in Option 1.
"17. Option 1.-Extended Insurance. Applied to the
extension of this policy as participating term insurance
from the date to which premiums have been paid, without
any further payment (Table 1.) The value of any paidup additions will be used to increase the term of extension.
Accumulations of dividends at interest may be applied to
increase the term of extension. Dividends on extended
insurance shall be paid in cash and only for completed
policy years.
"22. Deduction of Indebtedness. If there be any indebtedness or advances on this policy, the cash value shall
be reduced thereby; the paid-up value shall be reduced
proportionately; and the extended insurance shall be for
the face value of the policy less the indebtedness and
advances and for such term as said reduced cash value
will provide."
Petitioner argues that an earlier provision of the policy
(article 8) that "after two full years' premiums have been
paid, on failure to pay any subsequent premium, this
policy shall lapse and its value, if any, shall be applied as
set forth in article 16," conflicts with the provision of
article 12 that the dividend in case of lapse shall be paid
in cash. There is no conflict, however, as article 16 refers to the use of the" surrender value" as defined in
article 5. Instead of there being inconsistency, article 8
expressly provides for lapse on non-payment of premium,
the event on which, by article 12, the dividend is to be
paid in cash. The dividend is not a part of the "surrender value." That value is equal to the "reserve" at the
end of the policy year, less the " surrender charges"
stated. Where level premiums are paid, the amount of
the annual premium is necessarily greater than the mor-

WILLIAMS v. UNION CENTRAL CO.
170

Opinion of the Court.

tality cost during the early years of the insurance and
less than the mortality cost in later years. With the
mortality table and an assumed rate of interest on the
investment of premiums received, the amount of the accumulated savings on this basis, at any date, can be
mathematically computed. This amount constitutes the
"reserve" against the policy or its net value. The insurer must have on hand the aggregate amount of these
reserves against its outstanding policies. And in case.of
lapse, after a policy has been in force for a specified time,
its net value or "surrender value," less surrender charges,
is made available to the policyholder.
"Dividends " are in a different category. In fixing the
annual level premium, there is added to the sum required
on the basis of the mortality table, and assumed rate of
interest, an amount to cover anticipated expenses and contingencies. If the rate of mortality exactly coincided
with the expected rate, and the income, expenses and
contingencies were precisely in accordance with the allow-"
ance made therefor, there would be no surplus and hence
no dividends. But in the actual course of business there
may be, and probably will be, gains from the fact that the
mortality turns out to be less than that expected, or that
the income is larger or the outlays are less than those
estimated, and these gains are distributable to policyholders by means of " dividends" in accordance with the
provisions of policies. The "surrender value" is calculated on the basis of the reserve and without reference
to such possible dividends.
In this instance, according to the tables set forth in the
policy to which article 16 refers, the surrender value at the
time in question was $91 for each $1000 of insurance,
and thus amounted to $910. According to article 22,
this "cash value" was to be reduced by th~e amount ad-.
vanced on the policy. It is not questioned that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

amount which had been advanced, with interest, was
$898.88. There was thus left, of the surrender value, the
sum of $11.12 which the insured was entitled to have.applied as provided in article 16. The insured, on the failure to pay the premium due, did not exercise any of the
options for the use of the surrender value of the policy
under article 16, and hence "such value" was to be
applied "as provided in Option 1," set forth in article
17. The amount to be so applied was clearly the surrender value of $11.12, as above stated. And under " Option 1," it was this amount that was to be used to obtain
"extended insurance."
Article 17 provided that this amount should be "applied to the extension of this policy as participating term
insurance from the date to which premiums have been
paid, without any further payment (Table 1)." According to that table, the sum of $910, the total surrender value without deducting advances, would have
sufficed to purchase $10,000 of participating term insurance for " four years, 330 days," that is, at between 50
and 51 cents a day. The amount remaining of the surrender value, after deducting advances, or $11.12, would
thus purchase extended insurance for only twenty-two
days, a period inadequate to keep the policy alive until
the date of the death of the insured.
The petitioner is not aided by the other provisions of
Article 17. It provides that "the value of any paid-up
additions will be used to increase the term of extension."
But there were no "paid-up additions." Prior dividends
had been used in reduction of the annual premiums paid.
No option had been exercised for the use of the dividend
in question in the purchase of a paid-up addition as provided in article 11, and that dividend, on the lapse of the
policy, became payable in cash by the terms of article 12.

WILLIAMS v. UNION CENTRAL CO.
170

Ojinion of the Court

Article 17 also provided that " accumulations of dividends
at interest may be applied to increase the term of extension." This provision manifestly refers to the option in
article 11 that dividends mnay be " left to accumulate with
interest at three per cent." That option had not been
exercised and no dividends had been left to accumulate.
The provision has no application to a current dividend as
to which no option had been exercised and which on the
lapse of the policy is expressly made payable in cash. If,
after the lapse and during the life of the insured, the company had attelnpted to apply that dividend to extended
insurance, its action would not have been binding upon
the insured and he would have been entitled to demand
the cash payniiit explicitly promised him.'
It, is the co'ntention of the petitioner that, on the lapse
of the policy, the dividend of $74.80 should have been
ap)plied in reduction of the amount advanced against the
surrender value of the policy, thus raising what remained
of that value from $11.12 to $85.92, a sum sufficient to
extend the insurance until after the death. But the
policy gave no warrant for an application of the dividend
to the reduction of advances against the policy. As this
Court pointed out in Board of Assessors v. New York Life
Ins. Co., 216 U.S. 517, 522, such advances being against
the surrender value do not create a " personal liability"
or a "debt " of the insured, but are merely a deduction
from the sum that the company " ultimately must pay."
While the advance is called a" loan " and interest is computed in settling the account, "the item never could be
sued for" and in substance " is a payment, not a loan."
''e Hutchinson v. National Life Ins. Co., 196 Mo. App. 510; 195
S.W. GO; At/Intic Life Ins. Co. v. Bclder, 146 Va. 312; 131 S.E. 806;
(ardner v. National Life Ins. Co., 201 N.C. 716; 161 S.E. 30S; Ton,-cich v. Home Life Ins. Co., 309 Ila. 336; 1(;:
Ad. 673.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Id. The company had no right, without agreement with
cash, to the
the insured, to apply a dividend, payable in
2
policy.
the
against
advance
the
of
reduction
In the endeavor to support her contention, petitioner
refers to a statement and a "cash surrender voucher" sent
by the company to the insured under date of July 15,
1931. These papers were submitted for the signature of
the insured but were not signed or approved by him. In
them, the cash value of the dividend, or $74.80, was added
to the cash value of the policy, and the amount of the
advances against the policy with interest, together with
a "balance on loan" ($81.10) on another policy, were deducted, leaving a "net cash surrender value available"
of $4.82. The endeavor to treat this statement and proposed voucher as making the dividend a part of the surrender value is unsuccessful. Not only is this effort opposed to- the clear terms of the policy but the papers
themselves show that the "cash value" of the dividend
was regarded as a separate item. These papers, so far as
the present question is concerned, evidence neither an
admission nor an agreement.
As there is no ambiguity in the provisions under consideration, there is no occasion for resort to the familiar
principle that equivocal words should be construed against
the insurer. While it is highly important that ambiguous
clauses should not be permitted to serve as traps for policyholders, it is equally important, to the insured as well
as to the insurer, that the provisions of insurance policies
which are clearly and definitely set forth in appropriate
language, and upon which the calculations of the company
are based, should be maintained unimpaired by loose and
ill-considered interpretations.
'See Wagner v. Thieriot, 203 App. Div. 757, 197 N.Y.S. 560; 236
N.Y. 588, 142 N.E.295.

WILLIAMS v. UNION CENTRAL CO.
170

Opinion of the Court.

The remaining question is whether a different conclusion as to the interpretation of the policy is required
in view of the provision of Article 4732, Revis-ed Civil
Statutes of Texas, 1925, quoted in the margin.3 Petitioner
insists that the phrase "dividend additions," as used in
the statute, means "dividends."
The Circuit Court of
Appeals disagreed with this view, holding that "dividend
additions" are "paid-up insurance in addition to the face
of the policy and purchased with dividends." We think
that this construction is correct. It is in accord with the
uncontradicted testimony which was given by actuaries
upon the trial as to the general understanding of the
phrase. It will be observed that the statutory provision
refers to the reserve at the date of default on the policy
"and on any dividend additions thereto." It thus refers
The provisions of Article 4732 invoked by the petitioner are as
follows:

"No policy of life insurance shall be issued or delivered in this
State, or be issued by a life insurance company organized under the
laws of this State, unless the same shall contain provisions substantially
as follows: ...

"7. A provision which, in event of default in premium payments,
after premiums shall have been paid for three full years, shall secure
to the owner of the policy a stipulated form of insurance, the net
value of which shall be at least equal to the reserve at the date of
default on the policy, and on any dividend additions thereto, specifying the mortality table and rate of interest adopted for computing
such reserve, less a sum not more than two and one-half per cent of
the amount insured by the policy and of any existing dividend additions thereto, and less any existing indebtedness to the company on
the policy. Such provision shall stipulate that the policy may be
surrendered to the company at its home office within one month from
date of default for a specified cash value at least equal to the sum
which would otherwi e be available for the purchase of insurance, as
aforesaid, and may stipulate that the company may defer payment
for not move than six months after the application therefor is made.
This provision shall not be required i term insurances."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

to "dividend additions" upon which there would be a
reserve, that is, it would seem plainly, to paid-up insurance purchased by dividends, which would require a
reserve. We also agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals
that the case of First Texas State Ins. Co. v. Smalley, 111
Tex. 68; 228 S.W. 550, is not to be regarded as a construction of the phrase, as the present question was not before
the court. The same is true of the case of Occidental
Life Ins. Co. v. Jamora, 44 S.W. (2d) 808. In Great
Southern Life Ins. Co. v. Jones, 35 F. (2d) 122, relating to
a similar statute of Oklahoma, the policy provided for
guaranteed "premium reduction coupons" which were
fixed liabilities requiring a reserve, and were not dividends in the proper sense as in the instant case. The
ruling of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in United
States Life Ins. Co. v. Spinks, 126 Ky. 405; 96 S.W. 889,
103 id. 335, is met by the later decision of the same court
in Jefferson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 151 Ky. 609, 616,
617; 152 S.W. 780, where the Court held that the words
"dividend additions" in the statute of Kentucky "has
reference solely to paid-up insurance." See, also, Mutual
Benefit Life Ins. Co. v. O'Brien, 116 S.W. 750. We see
no reason for attributing, under the statute of Texas, any
other meaning to the terms of the policy in suit than
that which would otherwise be regarded as their clear
import.
The petition for certiorari in this case directed attention
to what was deemed to be a conflict between the decision
below and the decisions of other Circuit Courts of Appeals in Harvey v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 45 F. (2d)
78, and Atlantic Life Ins. Co. v. Pharr, 59 F. (2d) 1024.
In the case of Harvey, the decision could, and did, rest on
the fact that the period of extended insurance, to which
the surrender value was applicable according to the provisions of the policy, ran from the effective date of the
policy and, as thus calculated, the insurance extended be

HELVERING v. FALK.
Syllabus.

170

yond the date of death. So far as what was said by the
court in that case may be regarded as bearing upon the
question presented in the instant case, it was, and was
stated to be, unnecessary to the decision. In the case of
Pharr,there were provisions in the policy, quite different
from those before us, which were of doubtful meaning.
The views expressed by the court may be taken as limited
to the facts of the particular case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER

REVENUE, v. FALK

ET AL.,

OF

INTERNAL

EXECUTORS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 225.

Argued Decenber 11, 1933.-Decided January 15, 1934.

1. An iron ore mine, the estimated life of which was nine years, while
subject to a fourteen year lease providing for royalties, was conveyed to trustees to hold during two lives and twenty-one years,
with power to manage, sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise dispose
thereof. The (Iced, without setting up a reserve for depletion, directed that all proceeds (less expenses) be distributed to the beneficiaries. Large sums were collected by the trustees as royalties
under the lease and distributed to the beneficiaries. Held, the
beneficiaries were the owners of the entire economic interest in the
mine, and, under the Revenue Acts of 1921, 1924 and 1926 were entitled to an allowance of a deduction for depletion, each in his proportionate share. Distinguishing Anderson v. Vilsoi. 289 U.S. 20.
Pp. 187, 189.
2. The plain pur)ose of the Revenue Act of 1921 (and corresponding
provisions of the 1924 and 1926 Acts), in respect to income from
mining properties, was to tax only that portion of the proceeds
remaining after proper allowance for depletion; and the act must
be so applied in practice as to carry out that purpose. P. 187.
3. The immunity from taxation granted by the Revenue Acts (since
1913) to the proceeds of mining property to the extent that they
represent actual depletion, eMures to the beneficial owners of the
economic interest. P. 187.

