OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

name short of the excision -of the word "white" would
give adequate protection.
The judgment is
Revetsed.

MORRISON

ET AL.

v. CALIFORNIA.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 487.

Argued December 12, 13, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. The Alien Land Law of California forbids that an alien who is
neither a citizen nor eligible for naturalization shall occupy land
for agricultural purposes, unless permitted by treaty; makes conspiracy of two or more persons to violate the prohibition a crime;
and further provides that where the State proves occupation or use
of such land by any defendant, and the indictment alleges his
alienage and ineligibility, the onus of -proving his citizenship or
eligibility shall devolve upon the defense.
(1) Where two persons, charged with such a conspiracy, were
convictcd upon proof merely that one of them, alleged to be an
alien Japanese, ineligible to citizenship, had gone upon agricultural
land and used itunder an agreement with the other, whose citizenship was not involved, held that the conviction, as to*both, was
without due process of law:
(a) In the case of the lessor, the statutory presumption of the
lessee's disqualification and of the lessor's knowledge of it, based
only on the lease and possession, is purely arbitrary. Pp. 90-92.
(b) In the ease of the lessee, the shifting of the burden of proof
is likewise unjustifiable, first, because a lease of agricultural land
conveys no hint of criminality; and secondly, because there is in
general no practical necessity for relieving the prosecution of the
necessity of proving Japanese race,-the appearance of the defendant, and expert testimony, will suffice; and because, in the exceptional case, where the appearance of Japanese blood is obscured by
admixtures of white or African blood, the promotion of convenience
froni the point of view of the prosedution will be outweighed by the
probability of injustice to the accused: one whose racial origins are
so blendedas not to be discoverable at sight will often be unaware
of them. Pp. 93-96.
(2) Morrison v. California,288 U.S. 591, distinguished,-a case
involving a different section of the statute and in which the burden

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

82

of proving citizenship -by birth lay upon the alien after the State.
had proved him to be of a race ineligible for naturalization. P. 87.
2. The burden of proof may be shifted in criminal cases where, the
State has proved enough to make it just for the defendant to be
required to repel what has been proved with excuse or explanation, or where, upon a balancing of convenience or of the opportunities for knowledge, the shifting of the burden will be found to
be an aid to the accuser without subjecting the accused to hardship
or oppression. P. 88.
3. Where a charge of conspiracy is limited to two persons the guilty
knowledge must have been shared by both to warrant conviction of
either. P. 93.
218 Cal. 287; 22 P. (2d) 718, reversed.
AP1EAL from a judgment sustaining a conviction of

conspiracy.

The case went to the court below from the

California District Court of Appeal.

13 P. (2d) 803.

Mr. J. Marion Wright for appellants.
Mr. Jamres S. Howie, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
AIR. JUSTICE Cmnwozo delivered the opinion of th
Court.

The appellants have been convicted of a conspiracy to
violate the Alien Land Law of the State of California.
The indictment charges that the two appellants, Morrison and I)oi, feloniously conspired to place Doi in the
possession and enjoyment of agricultural land within the
state; that possession was obtained, and the land used
and cultivated, in execution of the conspiracy; and that
)oi was an alien Japanese, ineligible to citizenship, and
not protected in his possession by any treaty between the
Govrnment of the United States and the Government of
Japan. Tlise acts, if committed with the guilty knowledflg, of each defendant, make out a criminal conspiracy
under the statutes of the state.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

On the trial the state proved that Doi had gone upon
the land and used it under an agreement with Morrison,
but did not attempt to prove that he was not a citizen
of the United States or that he was ineligible for citizenship. The statutes of California provide that as to
these elements of the crime the burden of disproving
guilt shall rest on a defendant. By § 9a of the Alien Land
Law as amended in 1927 (California Statutes, 1927, p.
880, c. 528), it is enacted that "in any action or proceeding, civil .or criminal, by the State of California, or the
people thereof, under any provisions of this act, when the
proof introduced by the state, or the people thereof, establishes the acquisition, possession, enjoyment, use, cultivation, occupation, or transferring of real property or
any interest therein, or the having in whole or in part the
beneficial use thereof by any defendant, or any of such
fact(s), and the complaint, indictment or information
alleges the alienage or ineligibility to United States citizenship of such defendant, the burden of proving citizenship or eligibility to citizenship shall thereupon devolve
upon such defendant." At the same session of the legislature, the Code of Civil Procedure of the state was
amended by the addition of a new section (1983) which
in substance and effect restates the same rule. California
Statutes, 1927, p. 434, c. 244. Applying these statutes to
this case, the trial judge held (a jury having been waived)
that both the defendants, Morrison as well as Doi, were
guilty of conspiracy. They were sentenced to be imprisoned for two years, but the sentences were suspended, and
the defendants placed upon probation. There was an
appeal to the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth
District, where the judgment was affirmed., The court
overruled the defendants' contention that by the application of § 9a of the Alien Land Law and § 1983 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, there had been a denial of due process

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
82

Opinion of the Court.

of law under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. 13 P. (2d) 803. The cause
was then transferred to the Supreme Court of California.
There defendants' contention under the Fourteenth
Amendment was again overruled, and the conviction was
affirmed, three judges dissenting. 218 Cal. 287; 22 P.
(2d) 718. An appeal to this court followed.
A person of the Japanese race is a citizen of the United
States if he was born within the United States. United
States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U.S. 649. He is a citizen,
even though born abroad, if his father was a citizen, provided, however, that this privilege shall not exist unless
the father was at some time a resident of the United
States as well as a citizen, and provided also that such a
child, who continues to reside abroad, shall, in order to
receive the protection of this Government, be required
upon reaching the age of eighteen years to record at an
American consulate his intention to become a -gesident and
remain a citizen of the United States, and shall be further
required to take the oath of allegiance to the United States
upon attaining his majority. R.S. § 1993; 8 U.S.C. § 6;
Weedin v. Chin Bow, 274 U.S. 657; see also R.S. § 2172;
8 U.S.C. § 7. But a person of the Japanese race, if not
born a citizen, is ineligible to become a citizen, i.e., to be
naturalized. The privilege of naturalization is confined to
aliens who are "free white persons, and to aliens of African
nativity and to persons of African descent." R.S. § 2169;
8 U.S.C. § 359. "White persons" within the meaning of
the statute are members of the Caucasian race, as Caucasian is defined in the understanding of the mass ot
men. Ozawa v. United States, 260 U.S. 178; Yamashita
v. United States, 260 U.S. 199; United States v. Thind,
261 U.S. 204, 214; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U.S. 197;
Porterfield v. Webb, 263 U.S. 225; Webb v. O'Brien, 263
U.S. 313; Cockrill v. California, 268 U.S. 258. The term

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

86

Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

excludes the Chinese (United States v. Wong Kim Ark,
supra; 8 U.S.C. § 363), the Japanese (cases supra), the
Hindus (United States v. Thind, supra), the American
Indians (Ozawa v. United States, supra) and the Filipinos
(Toyota v. United States, 268 U.S. 402), though Indians
and Filipinos who have done military or naval service
may be entitled to special privileges (8. U.S.C. §§ 3, 388).
Nor is the range of the exclusion limited to persons of the
full blood. The privilege of naturalization is denied to all
who are not white (unless the applicants are of African
nativity or African descent) ; and men are not white if the
strain of colored blood in them is a half or a quarter, or,
not improbably, even lels, the governing test always
(United States v. Thind, supra) being that of common
understanding. Dean v. Commonwealth, 4 Gratt. (45
Va.) 541; Gentry v. McMinnis, 3 Dana (Ky.) 382; In re
Camille, 6 Fed. 256; In re Young, 198 Fed. 715, 717; In re
Lampitoe, 232 Fed. 382; In re Alverto, 198 Fed. 688;
In re Knight, 171 Fed. 299; 2 Kent Comm. (12th ed.)
73, note. Cf. the decisions in the days of slavery: Gentry
v. McMinnis, 3 Dana (Ky.) 382; Morrison v. White, 16
La. Ann. 100, 102; see Scott v. Raub, 88 Va. 721, 727-9;
14 S.E. 178.'
The California Land Law must be read in the light of
these rulings as to the effect of birth and race. Section 1
of the Act (Cal. Stat. 1923, p. 1020, amending Cal. Stat.
1921, p. lxxxiii) provides that all aliens eligible for citizenship may acquire and occupy real property to the
same extent as citizens. Section 2 provides that aliens
not eligible for citizenship may use and Occupy real property to the extent prescribed by any treaty between the
Government of the United States and the nation or couiltry of which such alien is a citizen or subject, "and not
1The opinions

in Jeffries v. Ankeny, 11 Ohio 372, and Gray v. State,

4 id. 353, rest upon peculiar provisions of the Ohio Constitution.

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
82

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise." There is a treaty between the United States
and Japan (37 Stat. 1504) by which the Japanese may
own or lease houses, manufactories, warehouses, and
shops, and may lease land for residential and commercial
purposes. The treaty does not confer a privilege to own
or use land for the purposes of agriculture. Webb v.
O'Brien, supra, p. 323; Frick v.Webb, 263 U.S. 326. Section 3 of the Act prescribes the rule applicable to the ac.quisition of shares in corporations organized by aliens for
the occupation or use of land; §§.4 and 5 prescribe the
rule for alien trustees and guardians; §§ 7, 8, and 9
provide for the escheat to the state of any interest in real
property unlawfully acquired. Section 10 provides that
"if two or more persons conspire to violate any of the
provisions of this act they are punishable by imprisonment in the county jail or state penitentiary not exceeding two years or by a fine not exceeding five thousand
dollars, or both." This is the section under which the defendants have been convicted. There is nothing in the
statute whereby unlawful occupation of land by an alien
ineligible for citizenship is declared to be a crime unless
the occupation has been acquired by force of a
conspiracy.
This court in Morrison v. California, 288 U.S. 591,2
passed upon a controversy as to the validity of § 9b of
the CalifN-nia Land Law, which, though akin to § 9a, has
important elements of difference. This section (9b) provides in substance that when it has been proved that the
defendant has been in the use or occupation of real property and when it has also been proved that he is a memiber of a race ineligible for citizenship under the naturalization laws of the United States, the defendant shall have
Tho appeal was dismissed for the want of a substantial federal
question upon a statement as to jurisdiction, and without argument of
counsel.

,88

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the burden of proving citizenship as a defense.' We sustained that enactment when challenged as invalid under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal constitution.
The state had given evidence with reference to the defendant, the occupant of the land, that by reason of his
race he was ineligible to be made a citizen. With this evidence present, we held that the burden was his to show
that by reason of his birth he was a citizen already, and
thus to bring himself within a rule which has the effect
of an exception. In the vast majority of cases, he could
do this without trouble if his claim of citizenship was
honest. The People, on the other hand, if forced to disprove his claim, would be relatively helpless. In all likelihood his life history would be known only to himself and
at times to relatives or intimates unwilling to speak
against him.
The ruling was not novel. The decisions are manifold
that within limits of reason and fairness the burden of
proof may be lifted from the state in criminal prosecutions and cast on a defendant. The limits are in substance these, that the state shall have- proved enough to
make it just for the defendant to be required to repel what
'Sec. 9b. In any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, by the State
of California, or the people thereof, under any of the provisions of
this act, when the complaint, indictment or information, alleges the
alienage and ineligibility to United States citizenship of any defendant, proof by the state, or the people thereof, of the acquisition, possession, lnjoyinent, use, cultivation, occupation or transferring of real
property or any interest therein, or the having in whole or in part of
the beneficial use thereof by such defendant, or of any such facts, and
in addition proof that such defendant is a member of a race ineligible
to citizenship under the naturalization laws of the United States, shall
create a prima facie presumption of the ineligibility to.citizenship of
such defendant, and the burden of proving citizenship or eligibility
to citizenship as a defense to any such action or proceeding shall
thereupon devolve upon such defendant. Cal. Stats: 1927, c. 528,
p. 881.

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
82

Opinion Of the Court.

has been proved with excuse or explanation, or at least
that upon a balancing of convenience or of the opportunities for knowledge theshifting of the burden will be
found to be an aid to the accuser without subjecting the
accused to hardship or oppression. Cf. Wigmore, Evidence, Vol. 5, §§ 2486, 2512 and cases cited. Special reasons are at hand to make the change permissible when
citizenship vel non is the issue to be determined. Citizenship is a privilege not due of common right. One who
lays claim to it as his, and does this in justification or
excuse of an act otherwise illegal, may fairly be called
upon to prove his title good. In accord with that view
are decisions of this court in proceedings under the acts
of Congress for the deportation of aliens. A Chinaman
by race resisted deportation on the ground that, though a
Chinaman, he had been born in the United States. The
ruling was that as to the place of birth the burden was
upon the alien, and not upon the Government. The
ruling also was that the imposition of that burden did
not deprive the alien of his constitutional immunities.
Chin Bak Kan v. United States, 186 U.S. 193, 200. "The
inestimable heritage of citizenship is not to be conceded
to those who seek to avail themselves of it under pressure
of a particular exigency, without being able to show that
it was ever possessed." Ibid. See also: Ah How v.
United States, 193 U.S. 65, 76; Christy v. Leong.Don, 5
F. (2d) 135. Cf. Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U.S. 276,
283. We adhered to that principle in Morrison v. Clifornia, supra. Upon that basis, we approved the ruling
of the Supreme Court of California (People v. Osaki, 209"
Cal. 169; 286 Pac. 1025) that § 9b of the Alien Land Law
casting upon a Japanese defendant the burden of proving citizenship after proof of his race had been given
by the state was not an impairment of his immunities
under the federal constitution. No point was made in
the statement of jurisdiction or the supporting brief that

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the crime was conspiracy and that one of the defendants
belonged to the white race. The case was submitted as if
both were Japanese.
The question is now as to § 9a. Obviously there is a
wide difference between the scope of the two sections.
Possession of agricultural land by one not shown to be
ineligible for citizenship is an act that carries with it not
even a hint of criminality. To prove such possession
without more is to take hardly a step forward in support
of an indictment. No such probability of wrongdoing
grows out of the naked fact of use or occupation as to
awaken a belief that the user or occupier is guilty if he
fails to come forward with excuse or explanation. Yee
Hem v. United States, 268 U.S. 178, 183, 184; Luria v.
United States, 231 U.S. 9, 25; Casey v. United States, 276
U.S. 413, 418; Mobile, J. K. & C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,
219 U.S. 35, 42, 43; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U.S. 219, 233,
238; Manley v. Georgia, 279 U.S. 1; People v. Cannon,
139 N.Y. 32. "The legislature may go a good way in
raising [a presumption] or in changing the burden of
proof, but there are limits." McFarland v. American
Sugar Co., 241 U.S. 79, 86. What is proved must be so
related to what is inferred in the case of a true presumption as to be at least a warning signal according to the
teachings of experience. "It is not within the province
of a legislature to declare an individual guilty or presumptively. guilty of a crime." McFarlandv. American Sugar
Co., supra; Bailey v. Alabama, supra; Manley v. Georgia,
supra. There are, indeed, " presumptions that are not evidence in a proper sense but simply regulations of the burden of proof." Casey v. United States, supra. Even so,
the occasions that justify regulations of the one order have
a kinship, if nothing more, to those that justify the others.
For a transfer of the burden, experience must teach that
the evidence held to be inculpatory has at least a sinister
significance (Yee Hem v. U,?itr,r States, supra; Casey v.

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
82

Opinion of the Court.

United States, supra), or if this at times be lacking, there
must be in any event a manifest disparity in convenience
of proof and opportunity for knowledge, as, for instance,

where a general prohibition is applicable to every one who
is unable to bring himself within the range of an exception.
Greenleaf, Evidence, Vol. 1, § 79.4 The list is not exhaustive. Other instances may have arisen or may develop in
the future where the balance of convenience can be redressed without oppression to the defendant through the
same procedural expedient. The decisive considerations
are too variable, too much distinctions of degree, too dependent in last analysis upon a common sense estimate of
fairness or of facilities of proof, to be crowded into a formula. One can do no more than adumbrate them;
sharper definition must await the specific case as it arises.
We turn to this statute and endeavor to assign it to its
class. In the law of California there is no general prohibition of the use of agricultural lands by aliens, with
special or limited provisos or exceptions. To the contrary, it is the privilege that is general, and only the prohibition that is limited and special. Without preliminary
' Instances of the application of this principle can be cited in profusion. The cases that follow are typical examples: King v. Turner,
5 Mau. & Sel. 206, where a defendant having game in his possession in
violation of a statute whereby possession was generally a crime, was
held to have the burden of proving his special qualifications (cf. Yee
Hem v. United States, supra; also Spierqs v. Parker, 1 T.R. 144, per
Lord Mansfield); Fleming v. People, 27 N.Y. 329, a prosecution for
bigamy, where on proof that the defendant had contracted a second
marriage during the lifetime of his first wife, the burden was laid
upon him to prove exceptional circumstances that would have made
the marriage lawful; and finally such cases as Potter v. Deyo, 19
Wend. 361, 363, and United States v. Turner, 266 Fed. 248 (typical
of a host of others) where a defendant has been subjected to the
burden of producing a license or a permit for a business or profession
that would otherwise be illegal. Cf. United States v. Hayward, 26
Fed. Cas. 240; Board of Comm'rs v. Merchant, 103 N.Y. 143; 8 N.E.
484.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion bf the Court.

291 U.S.

proof of race, occupation of the land is not even a suspicious circumstance. The inquiry must therefore be
whether occupants so situated may be charged with the
burden of proving themselves eligible and thus establishing their innocence.
First. The indictment is for conspiracy, and, indeed, the
Alien Land Act creates no other crime. In re Akado,
188 Cal. 739, 742; 207 Pac. 245; Mott v. Cline, 200 Cal.
434, 448; 253 Pac. 718; Californig Delta Farms v. Chinese
American Farms,207 Cal."298, 308; 278 Pac. 227. Morrison and Doi are charged to have conspired, but Doi alone
is charged to be ineligible for citizenship. One might
suppose from a reading of the statute that the burden of
proof, even if shifted as to him, would be unaffected as to
Morrison. The California courts, however, have cast the
same burden upon both; and both have been convicted.
None the less, in applying the presumption, we must keep
before us steadily the quality of their crime. It is impossible in the nature of things for a man to conspire
with himself. Turinetti v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 15,
17. In California as elsewhere conspiracy imports a corrupt agreement between not less than two with guilty
knowledge on the part of each. People v. Richards, 67
Cal. 412; 7 Pac. 828; People v. Kizer, 22 Cal. App. 10, 14;
133 Pac. 516, 521; 134 id. 346; People v. Entriken, 106
Cal. App. 29, 32; 288 Pac. 788; Sands v. Commonwealth,
21 Gratt. (Va.) 871, 899; Pettibone v. United States, 148
U.S. 197, 203, 205.
Now, plainly as to Morrison, an imputation of knowledge is a wholly arbitrary presumption. He may never
have seen Doi before the transfer of possession or afterwards. He may have made his agreement by an agent or
over the telephone or by writings delivered through the
mails. Even if lessor and lessee came together face to
face, there is nothing to show whether Doi was a Japanese of the full blood, whose race would have been appar-

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
82

Opinion of the Court.

ent to any one looking at him. Moreover, if his race was
apparent, he may still have been a citizen, for anything
that was known to Morrison or others. The statute does
not make it a crime to put a lessee into possession without
knowledge or inquiry as to race and place of birth. The
statute makes it a crime to put an ineligible lessee into
possession as the result of a wilful conspiracy to violate
the law. Nothing in the People's evidence gives support
to the inference that Morrison had knowledge of the disqualifications of his tenant or could testify about them.
What was known to him, so far as the evidence discloses,
was known also to the People, and provable with equal
ease. Only an arbitrary mandate could charge him with
guilty knowledge as an inference of law if it were proved
that Doi was not a citizen or eligible to become one. Still
less can he be charged with such knowledge when Doi's
disqualification is itself a mere presumption. In such circumstances the conviction of Morrison because he failed
to assume the burden of disproving a conspiracy was a
denial of due process that vitiates the judgment as to him.
Nor is that the only consequence. Doi was not a conspirator, however guilty his own state of mind, unless Morrison had shared in the guilty knowledge and design.
Pettibone v. United States, supra; Gebardi v. United
States, 287 U.S. 112, 123. The joinder was something to
be proved, for it was of the essence of the crime. Without
it there was a civil wrong, but not a criminal conspiracy,
the only crime denounced. In re Akado, supra. The conviction failing as to the one defendant must fail as to the
other. Turinetti v. United States, supra; Williams v.
United States, 282 Fed. 481, 484; Gebardi v. United
States, supra.
Second. The result will not be changed if we view the
case on the assumption that possession by one ineligible,
when it is the product of agreement, may be criminal as
to the tenant who holds with guilty knowledge, though

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

innocent as to the landlord who believes that all is lawful.
We have pointed out before that a lease of agricultural
land, unaccompanied by evidence of the race of the lessee,
conveys no hint of criminality. For the moment we assume, without intending to decide, that strong considerations of convenience, if they existed, might cast upon the
'tenant the burden of proving his qualifications and thus
disproving guilt. The question will then be whether the
normal burden of proof will so thwart or hamper justice
as to create a practical necessity, without preponderating
hardship to the. defendant, for a departure from the usual
rule.
. In the vast majority of cases the race of a Japanese or
a Chinaman will be known to any one who looks at him.
There is no practical necessity in such circumstances for
shifting the burden to the defendant. Not only is there
no necessity; there is only a faint promotion of procedural
convenience. The triers of the facts will look upon the
defendant sitting in the court room and will draw their
own conclusions. If more than this is necessary, the
People may call witnesses familiar with the characteristics
of the race, who will state his racial origin. The only situation in ,which the shifting of the burden can be of any
substantial profit to the state is where the defendant is
of mi);ed blood, the white or the African so preponderating that there will be no external evidence of another.
But in such circpmstances the promotion of convenience
from the point of view of the prosecution will be outweighed by the probability of injustice to the accused.
One whose racial origins are so blended as to be not discoverable at sight will often be unaware of them. If he
can state nothing but his ignorance, he has not sustained
the burden of proving eligibility, and must stand condemned of crime.
Reflection will satisfy that the chance of this injustice
is not remote or shadowy. Let us assume a charge that

MORRISON v. CALIFORNIA.
82

Opinion of the Court.

agricultural land has been occupied by Filipinos not born
in the United States, and not entitled to the privileges
growing out of service in the army or the navy. 8 U.S.C.
§ 388. They are then ineligible for citizenship, and subject to indictment under the laws of California if they
have gone into possession in aid of a conspiracy. But
Filipinos have intermarried with many other peoples.
They have intermarried with whites and with Negroes
and mulattoes. A laborer, born in Canada, his parents
apparently mulattoes, but one of his grandparents a Filipino, according to the charge in an indictment, would
be igiforant in many cases whether he was a Filipino or
an African. The admixture of oriental blood might be
too slight for his race to be apparent to the eye, and
family traditions are not always well preserved, especially when the descendants are men and women of humble origin, remote from kith and kin. The same possibility of injustice would be present where the occupant
of the land is a descendant of Mexicans and Indians,'
Indians not born in the United States and not entitled to the special privileges growing out of service in the war (8 U.S.C. § 3) are
ineligible for citizenship.
There is a strain of Indian blood in many of the inhabitants of
Mexico as well as in the peoples of Central and South America.
Robert F. Foerster, The Racial Problems involved in Immigration
from Latin America and the West Indies to the United States, Report
to Secretary of Labor, 1925, pp. 7, 10, 15, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28,
29, 41.
Whether persons of such descent'may be naturalized in the United
States is still an unsettled question.
The subject was considered in Matter of Rodriguez, 81 Fed. 337,
but not all that was there said is consistent with later decisions of this
court. Ozawa v. United States, and United States v. Thind, supra.
Cf. In re Camille, supra.
Mexicans have migrated into California in increasingly large numbers (T. F. Woofter, Jr., Status of Racial and Ethnic Groups in
"Recent Social Trends," Vol. 1, pp. 553, 562, 572, 573); and there
have developed racial problems which have been considered by official

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion Of the Court

291 U.S.

or an Eurasian, his ancestors partly Europeans and partly
Asiatics.6
The probability is thus apparent that the transfer of
the burden may result in grave injustice in the only class
of cases in which it will be of any practical importance.
The statute does not say that the defendant shall be
acquitted if he does not know his racial origin and is
unable to make proof of it. What the effect of such a
law would be, we are not required to consider. To the
contrary, the statute says in substance that unless he can
and does prove it, he will have failed to discharge his
burden, and will therefore be found guilty. Moreover,
if he were to profess ignorance, and ignorance were an
excuse, the trier of the facts might refuse to credit him.
Holmes, J., in Ah How v. United States, supra, p. 76.
There can be no escape from hardship and injustice, outweighing many times any procedural convenience, unless
the burden of persuasion in respect of racial origin is cast
upon the People.
What has been written applies only to those provisions
of the statute that prescribe the rule for criminal causes.
bodies.

California Departments of Industrial Relations, Agriculture

and Social Welfare, "Mexicans in Californa," Report by Governor
C. C. Young's Mexican Fact Finding Committee, San Francisco, Cal.,
1930, pp. 41, et seq.
The treaty of Amity; Commerce, and Navigation of 1831 between
the United States and Mexico gives to the nationals of either country
the privilege of owning personal estate in the other (Art. XIII), but
contains no provision in respect of the ownership of land. This
treaty was revived after the Mexican War by Article XVII of the
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (1848). It was terminated by Mexico
in November, 1881. See Malloy, Treaties, Vol. 1, p. 1085.
' As to the appearance of children of marriages between Japanese
and the white races, see: S. C. Gulick, The American Japanese Problem, p. 153; Iyenaga and Sato, Japan and the California Problem,
p. 157.

SNYDER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
82

Syllabus.

Other considerations may or may not apply where the
controversy is civil. We leave that question open.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
SNYDER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT IN AND FOR THE
COUNTY OF MIDDLESEX, MASSACHUSETrS.

No. 241. Argued November 7,'1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.
1. So far as the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned, the presence of
the defendant in a prosecution for felony is a condition of due
process to the extent that a fair and just hearing would be thwarted
by his absence, and to that extent only. P. 105.
2. In a state prosecution for murder, the accused was denied permission to attend a view, which was ordered by the court on motion
of the prosecution, at the opening of the trial. The jurors, under a
sworn bailiff, visited the scene of the crime, accompanied by the
judge, the counsel for both parties and the court stenographer. The
counsel, acting as showers by the permission of the judge, pointed
out particular features of the scene and asked the jurors to observe
them, but there was no statement of the evidence. A stenographic
record was made of everything that was said or done. The defendant at the trial virtually admitted that the place visited was the
right one; and if there had been failure to point out anything material, he had full opportunity to prove the fact and ask for another
view. Held, that the viewing in the absence of the accused was not
a denial of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 108.
3. Statements to the jury pointing out the specific objects to be
noticed have been a traditional accompaniment of a view in England and in this country, and this procedure was not displaced by
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 110.
4. Designation of counsel for the parties as the showers is also an
ancient practice and can not be prejudicial to the defendant.
P. 113.
5. Assuming that the knowledge derived from a view is evidence, still
a view is not a trial.nor any part of a trial in the sense in which a
trial was understood at common law. P. 113,

