304

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

shall be defined by any particular agency of the state
government. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U.S. 71, 83; Soliah
v. Heskin, 222 U.S. 522, 524; Keller v. Potomac Electric
Power Co., 261 U.S. 428, 443; O'Donoghue v. United
States, 289 U.S. 516, 545; cf. Pacific States Telephone &
Telegraph Co. v. Oregon, 223 U.S. 118. The demands of
due process are satisfied if reasonably clear definition is
afforded in time to give the taxpayer an opportunity to
comply. Connally v. Gen~eral Construction Co., 269 U.S.
385) 391. Before the duties of the administrative officer
are performed we cannot say that the ordinance falls
short of that requirement. At this stage appellant can
show no more than apprehension that the definition which
the administrative officer will lay down may be deficient.
The Constitution can not allay that fear. Compare
Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, 289 U.S. 249, 253.
The decision of the state court must be affirmed, not
because the appellant has failed to exhaust its administrative remedies, which would concern us only if the suit
had been brought in a federal court of equity, but because
without administrative action, which has not occurred,
there can be no infringement of the immunity invoked.
Affirnied.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. R. F. KEPPEL
& BRO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 194.

FOR THE

Argued January 11, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

Federal Trade Commission, proceeding under ยง 5 of the Act,
ordered respondent, one of numerous candy manufacturers similarly engaged, to desist from selling and distributing in interstate
commerce candy in a certain type of package, in assortments, so
arranged and offered for sale as to avail of the element of chance

1. The

as an inducement to the retail purchaser. Each package contained

FED. TR. COMM'N v. KEPPEL & BRO.
304

305

Syllabus.

display material, attractive to children and explaining the plan by
which either the price or the amount of the candy received by
the purchaser was affected by chance. The Commission found
that the candy in this type of package was inferior in size or
quality to that in other classes of packaged candy marketed without the aid of the chance feature, and that the competition between
the two classes resulted in substantial diversion of trade from
others to the manufacturers and distributors of the former; that
this type of package was sold extensively in the retail trade to
school children, among whom it encouraged gambling; and that
many manufacturers refrained on moral grounds from making it,
and as a result were placed in a disadvantageous competitive
position. Held:
(1) The practice complained of is a method of competition in
interstate commerce. P. 308.
(2) The proceeding is "to the interest of the public," if otherwise within the purview of the Act. P. 308.
(3) The Commission correctly concluded that the practice was
an unfair method of competition within the meaning of the Act.
P. 314.
2. The fact that a practice does not involve any fraud or deception
and that competitors may maintain their competitive position by
adopting it, does not necessarily put it beyond the jurisdiction of
the Commission. P. 309.
3. The types of practices held in earlier litigation in this Court
to be subject to the Commission's prohibition do not mark the
limits of the Commission's jurisdiction. P. 309.
4. The Act is not restricted in its operation to those methods of
competition in interstate commerce which are forbidden at common
law or which are likely to grow into violations of the Sherman Act.
P. 310.
5. The phrase "unfair methods of competition," as used in the
Act, does not admit of precise definition, but its meaning and
application must be arrived at by a gradual process of judicial
inclusion and exclusion. P. 312.
6. A method used by a competitor is not necessarily fair because
others may adopt it without restricting competition between them.
P. 312.
7. The normal meaning of the words used is the first criterion of
statutory construction. P. 313.
8. A practice of the sort which the common ldw and criminal
statutes have long deemed contrary to public policy, and which

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

a large share ot the industry regards as unscrupulous, would seem
clearly to come within the meaning'of the word "unfair." P. 313.
9. While it is'for the courts finally to determine what are unfair
methods of competition under the Act, yet the conclusions of the
Commission on this question are of weight, and should be sustained
when based upon clear, specific and comprehensive findings sup-

ported by evidence. P. 314.
10. It is unnecessary, even if it were possible, to define in advance
what unfair methods are forbidden by the Act; new or different
practices must be considered as they arise in the light of the
circumstances in which they are employed. P. 314.
63 F. (2d) 81, reversed.
CE.RTIORAm, 290 U.S. 613, to review a judgment reversing an order of the Federal Trade Commission.

Assistant Attorney General Stephens, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Hammond E. Chafletz,
Robert E. Healy, and James W. Nichol were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. George E. Elliott, with whom Mr. HarrisC. Arnold
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STON. delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes here on certiorari to review a decree of
the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which set
aside. an order of the Federal Trade Commission forbidding certain trade practices of respondent as an unfair
method of competition. 63 F. (2d) 81; ยง 5, Federal
Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 717, 719.
The Commission found that respondent, one of numerous candy manufacturers similarly engaged, manufactures,
sells and distributes, in interstate commerce, package
assortments of candies known to the trade as "break
and take" packages, in competition with manufacturers
of assortments known as "straight goods" packages.
Both types are assortments of candies in packages in convenient arrangement for sale by the piece at a small price

FED. TR. COMM'N v. KEPPEL & BRO.
304

307

Opinion of the Court.

in retail stores in what is known as the penny candy
trade. The break and take assortments are so -arranged
and offered for sale to consumers as to avail of the element of chance as an inducement to the retail purchasers.
One assortment, consisting of 120 pieces retailing at 1 cent
each, includes four pieces, each having concealed within
its wrapper a single cent, so that the purchasers of those
particular pieces of candy receive back the amount of
the purchase price and thus obtain the candy without
cost. Another contains 60 pieces of candy, each having
its retail price marked on a slip of paper concealed within
its wrapper; 10 pieces retail at 1 cent each, 10 at 2 cents,
and 40 at 3 cents. The price paid for each piece is that
named on the price ticket, ascertained only after the purchaser has selected the candy and the wrapper has been
removed. A third assortment consists of 200 pieces of
candy, a few of which have concealed centers of different
colors, the remainder having white centers. The purchasers of the candy found to have colored centers are given
prizes, packed with the candy, consisting of other pieces
of candy or a package containing lead pencils, 1renholder
and ruler. Each assortment is accompanied by a display
card, attractive to children, prepared by respondent for
exhibition and use by the dealer in selling the candy,
explaining the plan by which either the price or the
amount of candy or other merchandise which the purchaser receives is affected by chance. The pieces of candy
in the break and take packages are either smaller than
those of the competing straight goods packages, which
are sold at a comparable price without the aid of any
chance feature, or they are of inferior quality. Much of
the candy assembled in the break and take packages is
s old by retailers, located in the vicinity of schools, to
school children.
The Commission found that the use of the break and
take package in the retail trade involves the sale or dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

tribution of the candy by lot or chance; that it is a lottery
or gambling device which encourages gambling among
children; that children, enticed by the element of chance,
purchase candy so sold in preference to straight goods
candy; and that the competition between the two types
of package results in a substantial diversion of trade from
the manufacturers of the straight goods package to those
distributing the break and take type. It found further
that in some states lotteries and gaming devices are penal
offenses; that the sale or distribution of candy by lot or
chance is against public policy; that many manufacturers
of competing candies refuse to engage in the distribution
of the break and take type of package because they regard it as a reprehensible encouragement of gambling
among children; and that such manufacturers are placed
at a disadvantage in competition. The evidence shows
that others have reluctantly yielded, to the practice in
order to avoid loss of trade to their competitors.
The court below held, as the respondent argues here,
that respondent's practice does not hinder competition or
injure its competitors, since they are free to resort to tve
same sales method; that the practice does not tend to create a monopoly or involve any deception to consumers
or the public, and hence is not an unfair method of competition within the meaning of the statute.
Upon the record it is not open to question that the
practice complained of is a method of competition in interstate commerce and that it is successful- in diverting
trade from competitors who do not employ it. If the
practice is tmfair within the meaning of the Act, it is
equally clear that the present proceeding, aimed at suppressing it, is brought, as ยง 5 of the Act requires, "to the
interest of the public." The practice is carried on by
forty or more manufacturers. The disposition of a large
number of complaints pending before the Commission,

FED. TR. COMM'N v. K1tPPEL & BRO.
304

309

Opinion of the Court.

similar to that in the present case, awaits the outcome of
this suit. Sales of the break and take package by respondent aggregate about $234,000 per year. The proceeding involves more than a mere private controversy.
A practice so generally adopted by manufacturers necessarily affects not only competing manufacturers but the
far greater number of retailers to whom they sell, and the
consumers to whom the retailers sell. Thus the effects
of the device are felt throughout the penny candy industry. A practice so widespread and so far reaching in its
consequences is of public concern if in other respects within the purview of the statute. Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Royal Milling Co., 288 U.S. 212, 216. Compare Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Klesner, 280 U.S. 19, 28. Hence we
pass without further discussion to the decisive question
whether the practice itself is one over which the Commission is given jurisdiction because it is unfair.
Although the method of competition adopted by respondent induces children, too young to be capable of
exercising an intelligent judgment of the transaction, to
purchase an article less desirable in point of quality or
quantity than that offered at a comparable price in the
straight goods package, we may take it that it does not
involve .any fraud or deception. It would seem also that
competing manufacturers can adopt the break and take
device at any time and thus maintain their competitive
position. From these premises respondent argues that
the practice is beyond the reach of the Commission because it does not fall within any of the classes which this
Court has held subject to the Commission's prohibition.
See Federal Trade Coinin'n v. Gratz, 253 U.S. 421, 427;
Federal Trade Conmt'n v. Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257
U.S. 441, 453; Federal Trade Conin'n v. Raladam Co.,
283 U.S. 643, 652; Fedcral Trade Cornm'n v. Royal Milling Co., supra, at 217. But we cannot say that the Coin-

31'0

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

mission's jurisdiction extends only to those types of practices which happen to have been litigated before this
Court.
Neither the language nor the history of the Act suggests
that Congress intended to confine the forbidden methods
to fixed and unyielding categories. The common law
afforded a definition of unfair competition and, before the
enactment of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the
Sherman Act had laid its inhibition upon combinations
to restrain or monopolize interstate commerce which the
courts had construed to include restraints upon competition in interstate commerce. It would not have been a
difficult feat of draftsmanship to have restricted the operation of the Trade Commission Act to those methods of
competition in interstate commerce which are forbidden
at common law or which are likely to grow into violations
of the Sherman Act, if that had been the purpose of the
legislation.
The Act undoubtedly was aimed at all the familiar
methods of law violation which prosecutions under the
Sherman Act had disclosed. See Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Raladam Co., supra, 649, 650. But as this Court has,
pointed out it also had a broader purpose, Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U.S. 483, 493;
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., supra, 648. As
proposed by the enate Committee on Interstate Commerce and a, introduced in the Senate, the bill which
ultimately became the Federal Trade Commission Act
declared' "unfair competition" to be unlawful. But
1

The Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, in recommending
the bill in its original form, seems to have adopted the phrase "unfair competition" with the deliberate purpose of giving to ther Commission some latitude for dealing with new and varied forms of unfair
trade practices. The Committee said in its report of June 13, 1914,
Senate Report No. 597, 63d Cong., Second Session, page 13:

FED. TR. COMM'N v. KEPPEL & BRO.
304

311

Opinion of the Court.

it was because the meaning which the common law had
given to those words was deemed too narrow that the
broader and more flexible phrase "unfair methods of con" The committee gave careful consideration to the question as to
whether it would attempt to define the many and vdriable unfair
practices which prevail in commerce and to forbid their continuance
or whether it would, by a general declaration condemning unfair practices, leave it to the commission to determine what practices were
unfair. It concluded that the latter course would be the better, for
the reason, as stated by one of the representatives of the Illinois
Manufacturers' Association, that there were too many unfair practices to define, and after writing 20 of them into the law it would be
quite possible to invent others.
"It is believed that the term 'unfair competition' has a legal
significance which can be enforced by the commission and the courts,
and that it is no more difficult to determine what is unfair competition than it is to determine what is a reasonable rate or what is an
unjust discrimination. The committee was of the opinion that 'it
would be better to put in a general provision condemning unfair competition than to attempt to define the numerous unfair practices, such
as local price cutting, interlocking directorates, and holding companies
intended to restrain substantial competition."
Senator Newlands, in introducing the bill for the Committee, emphasized this feature. In answering the criticism that the phrase
"unfair competition" lacked definition he said, 51 Cong. Rec. 11084:
"Our answer to this is that it would be utterly impossible for
Congress to define the numerous practices which constitute unfair
competition and which are against good morals in trade, for we are
beginning to realize that there is a standard of morals in trade or
that there ought to be. Germany does not hesitate by law to condemn practices in business that are contra bonos mores. It leaves
their tribunals to determine what practices are against good morals.
"It is the illusive character of the trade practice that makes it
though condemned today appear in some other form tomorrow. If
we should attempt to define all the trade practices that can be devised,
that would create dishonest advantage in competition, we would
undertake a hopeless task."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

?qI U.S.

petition" was substituted.2 Congress, in defining the
powers of the Commission, thus advisedly adopted a
phrase which, as this Court has said, does not "admit
of precise definition but the meaning and application of
which must be arrived at by what this Court elsewhere
has called 'the gradual process of judicial inclusion and
exclusion.'" Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co.,
supra, 648; compare Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U.S.
97, 104.8
The argument that a method used by one competitor
is not unfair if others may adopt it without any restriction of competition between them was rejected by this
Court in Federal Trade Comm'n v. Winsted Hosiery Co.,
supra; compare Federal Trade Comm'n v. Algoma Lum-

ber Co., ante, p. 67.

There it was specifically held that a

' The phrase "unfair methods of competition" was substituted for
"unfair competition" in the Conference Committee. This change
seems first to have been suggested by Senator Hollis in debate on the
floor. of the Senate in response to the suggestion that the words
"unfair competition" might be construed as restricted to those forms
of unfair competition condemned by the common law. 51 Cong. Rec.
12145. The House Managers of the conference committee, in reporting this change, said, House Report No. 1142, 63d Congress, 2d Sess.,
September 4, 1914, at page 19:
"It is impossible to frame definitions which embrace all unfair
practices. There is no limit to human inventiveness in this field.
Even if all known unfair practices were specifically defined and prohibited, it would be at once necessary to begin over again. If Congress were to. adopt the method of definition, it would undertake an
endless task. It is also practically impossible to define unfair practices so that the definition will fit business of every sort in every part
of this country. Whether competition is unfair or not generally
depends upon the surrounding circumstances of the particular case.
What is harmful under certain circumstances may be beneficial under
different circumstances."
'References showing the details of the legislative history of the Act
may be found in Handler, The Jurisdiction of the Federal Trade
Commission over False Advertising, 31 Col.L.Rev. 527; Montague,
Unfair Methods of Competition, 25 Yale L.J.. 20; Henderson, The
Federal Trade Commission, c. I.

FED. TR. COMM'N v. KEPPEL & BRO.
304

313

Opinion of the Court.

trader may not, by pursuing a dishonest practice, force his
competitors to choose between its adoption or the loss of
their trade. A method of competition which casts upon
one's competitors the burden of the loss of business unless
they will descend to a practice which they are under a
powerful moral compulsion not to adopt, even though it
is not criminal, was thought to involve the kind of unfairness at which the statute was aimed.
The practice in this case presents the same dilemma
to competitors, and we can perceive no reason for distinguishing between the element of chance as employed here
and the element of deception involved in labelling cotton
goods "Natural Wool," as in the Tinsted case. It is true
that the statute does not authorize regulation which has
no purpose other than that of relieving merchants from
troublesome competition or of censoring the morals of
business men. But here the competitive method is shown
to exploit consumers, children, who are unable to protect
themselves. It employs a device whereby the amount of
the return they receive from the expenditure of money
is made to depend upon chance. Such devices have met
with condemnation throughout the community. Without inquiring whether, as respondent contends, the criminal statutes imposing penalties on gambling, lotteries and
the like, fail to reach this particular practice in most or
any of the states, it is clear that the practice is of the sort
which the common law and criminal statutes have long
deemed contrary to public policy. For these reasons a
large share of the industry holds out against the device,
despite ensuing loss in trade, or bows reluctantly to what it
brands unscrupulous. It would seem a gross perversion of
the normal meaning of the word, which is the first criterion
of statutory construction, to hold that the method is not
"unfair." See Federal Trade Comm'n v. Royal Milling
Co., supra, at 217; Federal Trade Comnm'n v. Algoma
Lumber Co., supra, at 81.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

While this Court has declared that it is for the courts to
determine what practices or methods of competition are
to be deemed unfair, Federal Trade Comm'n v. Gratz,
supra, in passing on that question the determination of
the Commission is of weight. It was created with the
avowed purpose of lodging the administrative functions
committed to it in "a body specially competent to deal
with them by reason of information, experience and careful study of the business and economic conditions of the
industry affected," and it was organized in such a manner, with respect to the length and expiration of the terms
of office of its members, as would "give to them an opportunity to acquire the expertness in dealing with these
special questions concerning industry that comes from experience." Report of Senate Committee on Interstate
Commerce, No. 597, June 13, 1914, 63rd Cong., 2d Sess.,
pp. 9, 11. See Federal Trade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut
Packing Co., supra,at 453; compare Illinois Central R. Co.
v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 206 U.S. 441, 454. If
the point were more doubtful than we think it, we should
hesitate to reject the conclusion of the Commission, based
as it is upon clear, specific and comprehensive findings
supported by evidence.
We hold that the Commission correctly concluded that
the practice was an unfair method of competition within
the meaning of the statute. It is unnecessary to attempt
a comprehensive definition of the unfair methods which
are banned, even if it were possible to do so. We do not
intimate either that the statute does not authorize the
prohibition of other and hitherto unknown methods of
competition or, on the other hand, that the Commission
may prohibit every unethical competitive practice regardless of its particular character or consequences. New or
different practices must be considered as they arise in the
light of the circumstances in which they are employed.
Reversed.

