FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.

67

'Syllabus.

54

This is not disputed. It is equally a bar to the recovery
of any item that entered into the account and determined
the balance as thus definitively adjusted.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

STONk

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. ALGOMA
LUMBER CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR'WTHE
NINTH CIRCUIT.'

No. 240. Argued December 14, 15, 1933.-Decided January.8, 1934.
1. The Federal Trade Commission Act makes the Commission's findings of fact conclusive if supported by evidence; and, upon appeal
from the Commission's order, the Circuit Court of Appeals is not at
liberty to make its own appraisal of the testimony and pick and
choose for itself among uncertain and conflicting,. inferences. P.73.
2. :The Commission ordered Pacific Coast lumber dealers to desist
from the practice of selling, under the trade name of "California
White Pine," lumber made from "Western Yellow Pine" (Pinus
ponderosa), -finding it an unfair and pejudicial method of competing with lumber made from the true White Pines (Pinus strobus
and closely related species), a product of better quality and commanding a .higher price. Held:
(1) That the evidence supported the Commission (a) in finding
that the lumber sold by the trade name " California White Pine"
is inferior to the true white pine lmber; (b) in finding that the
trade name is misleading and causes both confusion and prejudice
to retailers, architects,'builders, and consumers. Pp. 76, 77.
(2) The fact that "California White Pine" is listed as a trad6
equivalent of Pinus ponderosa in a list of standard commercial
names for lumber, forming part of a report of "Simplified Practice
Recommendations" issued by the Bureau of Standards, is of little
weight as evidence, considering the nature of the Bureau's function
and the basis and purpose of its recommendations. P. 73.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

291 U.S.

3. In being sold a substitute in the name of a better article, the consumer is prejudiced, even though he save money by it; the public
is entitled to get what it chooses, though the choice may be dictated
by caprice, or by fashion, or perhaps by ignorance. P. 78.
4. The practice of marketing a cheaper kind of lumber under the
name of a better and more expensive kind, is prejudicial to honest
dealers and manufacturers; orders that would come to them if the
lumber were rightly named, are diverted to others whose methods
are less scrupulous. P. 78.
5. The facts that a deceptive trade name was adopted without fraudulent design and has long been in use, are not a defense under the
Act if its continued use is in the circumstances unfair and prejudicial to the public interest. P. 79.
6.In this case the evidence contradicts the propqsition that the name
"California White Pine," misleading in the beginning, had acquired
an independent or secondary nucaning rendering it innocuous.
P.80.
7. A trade name, legitimate in one territory, may generate confusion
when carried to another, and must be given up. P. 81.
8. A method of competition may be unfair without being fraudulent
in law; but equity perceives a kind of fraud in clinging to a benefit
begot of misrepresentation, however innocently made. P. 81.
9. The contention that the proceedings of the Trade Commission in
this case were not "to the interest of the public," based on the
thought that, by encouraging the use of Pinus ponderosa the east-

ern forests of Pinus strobus would be conserved,-is rejected.
P. 81.
10. In requiring that the word "White" be omitted from the name
of respondent's product, the Commission did not abuse its discretion. P. 81.
64 F. (2d) 618, reversed.

290 U.S. 607, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals annulling an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General Stephens, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Robert E. Healy, Martin
A. Morrison, and Eugene W. Burr were on the brief, for

petitioner.

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

69

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Allan P. Matthew, with whom Messrs. Warren
Olney, Jr., and Carl I. Wheat were on the brief, for
respondents.
By leave of Court, Mr. Edward S. Rogers filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
* In May, 1929, the Federal Trade Commission filed and
*served complaints against a group of fifty manufacturers
on the Pacific Coast charging "unfair competition in'
interstate commerce" in violation of §.5 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act. 38 Stat. 717, 719, c. 311, § 5;
15 U.S.C. § 45.
After the service of answers the proceedings were consolidated and many witnesses examined. The outcome was
a series of r.eports sustaining the complaints as to thirtynine manufacturers, with orders to "cease and desist"
from the practice challenged as unfair. Twelve companies thus enjoined petitioned the Circuit Cou~t .of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to review the orders of the
,Commission. Such review being had, the orders were
annulled. 64 F. .(2d) 618. A writ of certiorari brings
the case here.
The .practice complained of as unfair and enjoined by
the Commission is the use by the respondents of the words
"California white pine" to describe' lumber, logs or other
forest products made from the pine species knowf as
Pinus ponderosa. The findings as to this use and its effect
upon the public are full and circumstantial. They are
too long to be paraphrased conveniently with in the limits
of an opinion. We must be content with aii imperfect
summary.
The respondents are engaged. in the manufacture and
sale of lumber and timber products which they ship from

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

California and Oregon to customers in other states and
foreign lands. Much of what they sell comes from the
species of tree that is known among botanists as Pinus
ponderosa. The respondents sell it under the name of

"California white pine," and under that name, or at times
"white pine" simply, it goes to the consumer. In truth
it is not a white pine, whether the tests to be applied
are those of botanical science or of commercial practice
and understanding.
Pine trees, the genus "Pinus," have- for a long time
been divided by botanists, foresters and the public generally into two groups, the white pine and the yellow.
The white pine group includes, by common consent, the
northern white pine (Pinus strobus), the sugar pine and
the Idaho white pine. It is much sought after by reason
of its durability under exposure to weather and moisture,
the proportion of its heartwood as contrasted with its
sapwood content, as well as other qualities. For these
reasons.it commands a high price as compared with pines
of other species. The yellow pine group is less durable,
harder, heavier, more subject to shrinkage and warping,
darker in color, more resinous, and more difficult to work..
It includes the long leaf yellow pine (Pinus palustris),
grown in the southern states, and the Pinus ponderosa, a
far softer wood, which is grown in the Pacific coast states,
and in Arizona and New Mexico, as well as in the " inland
empire " (eastern Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Western Montana).
Of the varieties of white pine, the northern or Pinus
strobus has been known better and longer than the others.
It is described sometimes as northern white pine, sometimes as white pine simply, sometimes with the addition
of its local origin, as Maine white pine, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Canadian, New Brunswick. It is native
to the northeastern states and to the Great Lakes region,
.a far west.as'Minnesota. It is found also in Canada and

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

71

Opinion of the Court.

along the Appalachian highlands. It was almost the only
building material for the settlers of New England, and so
great is its durability that many ancient buildings made
from it in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries survive in good condition. The sugar pine is native to the
upland regions of California, southern Oregon and parts
of Nevada. The Idaho white pine grows in the mountainous sections of Idaho, Washington and Oregon and in
parts of British Columbia. The white pine species "still
holds an exalted reputation among the consuming public"
and "in general esteem.is the highest type of lumber as
respects the excellences desired in soft wood material."
"It is coming more and more to be a specialty wood,
largely devoted to special purposes, as it becomes scarcer
and higher in price. It is in great demand."
About 1880 the Pinus ponderosa, though botanically a
yellow pine, began to be described as a white pine when
sold in the local markets of California, New Mexico, and
Arizona, the description being generally accompanied by
a reference to the state of origin, as "California white
pine," etc. By 1886, sales under this description had
spread to Nevada and Utah, with occasional shipments*
farther east. About 1900, they entered the middle western states, and about 1915 had made their way into New
England, though only to a small extent. The pines from
the "inland empire" traveled east more slowly, and when
they did were described as western white pine, a term
now generally abandoned. The progress of the newcomers, both from the coast and from the "inland empire"
was not wholly a march of triumph. In their movement
to the central and eastern markets they came into competition more and more with the genuine white pine, with
which those markets had been long familiar. Mutterings
of discontent were heard. I 1 1924, partly as a result of
complaints and official investigations, many of the pro-i
ducers, notably those of the "inland empire,"' as Well as

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

some producers in California and Arizona, voluntarily
gave up the use of the adjective " white" in connection
with their product, and adopted the description "pondosa
pines;" pondosa being a corruption or abbreviation of the
ponderosa of the botanists. "Pondosa pine is the term employed for ponderosa by the representatives of producers
of slightly more than half of the ,ponderosa marketed."
The respondents and others, however, declined to make a
change. During the next five years California white pine
and its equivalents became an 'even more important factor
in the lumber markets of the country. Accumulating
complaints led to an inquiry %bythe Commission, which
had its fruit in this proceeding.
The confusion and abuses growing out of these interlocking names have been developed in the findings. Many
retail dealers receiving orders.for white pine deliver California white pine, not knowing that it differs from the
lumber ordered. Many knowing the difference deliver
the inferior product because they can buy it cheaper.
Still others, well informed and honest, deliver the genuine
article, thus placing themselves at a disadvantage in the
race of competition with the Unscrupulous and the ignorant.. Trade has thus been diverted from dealers in white
pine-to dealers in Pinus ponderosamasquerading as white
pine. Trade has also been diverted from deallrs in Pinus
ponderosa .under the name pinus pondosa' to dealers in
Pinus ponderosa under the more attractive label. "The
diversion of trade from dealers of one class to dealers of
ariother is not the only mischief. Consumers, architects
and retailers have also been misled. They -have,given
-orders for the respondents' product, supposing it to be
white. pine and to have the qu'alities associated with lumber of that species. They have accepted deliveries under
the" empire of that belief. True indeed it is that the
woods -sold by the respondents, though not. a genuine

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

72

Opinion of the Court.

white pine, are nearer to that species in mechanical properties than they are to the kinds of yellow pine.indigenous
to the south. The fact that for many-purposes they are
half way between the white species and the yellow makes
the practice of substitution easier than it would be if the
difference were plain. Misrepresentation and confusion
flourish in such a soil. From these findings and others
the Commission was brought to the conclusion that the
respondents compete unfairly in transacting business as
they do, and that in the interest of the public their methods should be changed.
"The findings of the Commission as to ,facts, if supported by testimony, shall be conclusive." 15 U.S.C. § 45.
The Court of-Appeals, though professing adherence to this
mandate, honored it, we think, with lip service only. In
form the court determined that the finding of unfair competition had no support whatever. In fact what the court
di was to make its own appraisal of the testimony, picking and choosing for itself among. uncertain and conflicting inferences. Statute and decision (Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Pacific States Paper Trade Assn., 273 U.S. 52,
61, 63) forbid that exercise of power.
First. The argument is made that unfair competition
is disproved by the "simplified practice recommendations" of the Bureau of Standards when read in conjunction with the testimony as to the comparative utility.of
the genuine white pine ad Pinus ponderosa.
The Court of Appeals concedes that the recommendations of the Bureau will not avail, without more, to control the action of the Commission. Cf. Brougham v.
Blanton Mfg. Co., 249 U.S. 495, 499; Piedmont & NorthernRy. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 286 U.S.
299, 312. The view was expressed, however, that alone
they are in a high degree persuasive, and that in conjunction with.. other evidence they are even controlling. In

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

particular that result was thought to follow in this case
because the substituted wood, in the judgment of the
court, is so nearly equal in utility that.-buyers are not
injured, even though misled.'
Such a holding misconceives the significance of the
Government's endeavor to simplify commercial practice.
It misconceives even more essentially the significance of
the substitution of one article for another without notice
to the buyer.
(a) The Bureau of Standards is a branch of the
Department of Commerce. At its instance representatives of manufacturers, sellers, and users of lumber, as
well as architects, engineers and others, met in 0onference
at various times between 1922 and 1928 in an endeavor
to simplify methods of business in the lumber industry.
Following these conferenceq the Btireau in' 1929 issued a
report entitled. "Lumber, Simplified Practice. Recommendations." Many subjects that were considered are.
without relation te this case. The report dealt with
standards of size, of inspection, of structural material, and
other cognate themes. One of its subdivisions, however,
enumerates the standard commercial names for lumber
of many types. Sixteen names of pines are stated in the
list, and among them, is the name "California white pine"
with its botanical equivalent, .Pinusponderosa.
The ,recommendations of the Bureau of Standards for
the simplification of commercial practice are wholly
It would not necessaily follow . . . that a yellow pine might be
sold as a white pine if such sale§ were unfair to the trade and injurious
to the public, notwithstanding the Bureau of Standards had specified
a name such as 'California white pine? in a list of 'Standard commercial names' for pine lumber. It would be different, however, if
the particular rumber sold under such name possessed substantially
the same-qualities possessed by the white pines of commerce as distinguished from certain well known commercial yellow pines."., 64 F.
(2d) 618 at p. 620.

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

75

Opinion of the Court.

advisory. Dealers may conform or diverge as they prefer.
The Bureau has defined its own function in one of its
reports. -The Purpose and Application of Simplified Practice, National Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce, July 1, 1931, pp. 2, 7, 10, 17. " Simplified practice
is a method of eliminating superfluous variety through
the voluntary action of industrial groups." "The Department of Commerce has no regulatory powers" with
reference to the subject and hence "it is highly desirable
that this recommendation be kept distinct from any plan
or method of governmental regulation or control." There
is nothing to show that in making up the list of names
the Bureau made any investigation of the relation between
Pinus ponderosa and the white pines of the east. Certainly it had no such wealth of information on the subject
as was gathered by the Commission in the course of this
elaborate inquiry. There is nothing to show to what
extent its advice has been accepted by the industry. The
record does show that the recommendation does not
accord with the practice of other governmental agencies.
For example, the United States Forest Service in its
publications and forest signs describes the ponderosa
species as western yellow pine. In such circumstances the
action of the Bureau was at most a bit of evidence to be
weighed by the Commission along with much besides.
It had nosuch significance as to discredit in any appreciable degree a conclusion founded upon evidence otherwise
sufficient. The powers and function of the two agencies
of government are essentially diverse. The aim of the
one is to simplify business by substituting uniformity of
methods for wasteful diversity, and in the achievement of
these ends to rely upon co6perative action. The aim of
the other is to make the process of competition fair.
There are times when a description is deceptive from the
very fact of its simplicity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

(b) The wood dealt in by the respondents is not substantially as good as the genuine white pine, nor would
sales under the wrong name be fitting if it were.
The ruling of the court below as to this is infected by a
twofold error. The first is one of fact. The supposed
equivalence is unreal. The second is one. of law. If the
equivalence existed, the practice would still be wrong.
The Commission found as a fact that the genuine white
pine issuperior for many reasons to Pinus ponderosa, and
notably because of its greater durability. The court held
the view that the difference in durability had not been
proved so clearly asto lay a basis for the orders, and this,
it seems, upon the ground that though the superiority
exists, the evidence fails to disclose its precise degree.
"What the testimony appears to establish is that Northern white pine has relatively a greater durability for exterior use without establishing any comparative degree
of such durability." 64 F. (2d) 618 at p. 622.
Court and counsel for the respondents lean heavily at
this point upon the testimony of the Director of the
United States Forest Products Laboratory at Madison,
Wisconsin, and his assistant Mr. Hunt. The Director testified that'he did not know the comparative durability of the
pines, and would refer any inquirer to specialists, of whom
Mr. Hunt was one. The testimony of Mr. Hunt is that
there have been no tests in a strict sense, but that the comparison between the white pines and Pimus ponderosa has
been based upon observation and -opinion. He continues:
"The general experience with the use of the white pines,
during the two hundred years since they began to be
used, indicated that those pines had moderately high durability. The general experience with Pinus ponderosa
indicated that that wood had low durability in contact
with the ground or any place favoring the growth of decay. That is a matter of common knowledge." Inquirers
at the Laboratory were accordingly advised that "the

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

77

Opinion of the Court.

heartwood of the white pine has more decay resistance,
will give longer service under conditions favoring decay
than the heartwood of pinus ponderosa," and "the mill
run of the white pine probably would average higher in
durability under decay producing conditions."
This testimony, even if it stood alone, would tend to
sustain rather than to discredit the findings by the Commission that the genuine white pines are materially superior to the woods that the respondents are selling as a
substitute. It is fortified, however, by evidence from
many other sources. To be sure there is contradiction
which we have no thought to disparage. For present purposes we assume the credibility of those who spoke for
the complainants. Wholesalers, retailers, manufacturers,
lumber graders, laboratory experts and others bore witness to the comparative merits of the woods, stating their
own experience as well as common opinion among their
fellows in the industry. If all this may be ignored in the
face of the findings of the Commission, it can only be by
turning the court into an administrative body which is to
try the case anew.
What has been written has been aimed at the position
*that Pinus ponderosa is as good or almost as good as the
white pines of the east. "We have yet to make it plain
that the substitution would be unfair though equivalence
were shown. This can best be done in considering another argument which challenges the finding of the Commission that there has been misunderstanding on the part
of buyers. To this we now turn.
Second. The argument is made that retailers and consumers are not shown to have been confused as to the
character of the lumber supplied by the respondents, and
that even if there was confusion there is no evidence of
prejudice.
Both as to the fact of confusion and its consequences
the evidence is ample. "Retailers order" white pine " from

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

manufacturers and take what is sent to them, passing it
on to their customers. At times they do this knowing
or suspecting that they are supplying California white pine
instead of the genuine article, and supplying a wood that
is inferior, at least for the outer parts of buildings. Its
comparative cheapness creates the motive for the preference. At times they act in good faith without knowledge
of the difference between the California pines and others.
Architects are thus misled, and so are buildprs and consumers. There, is a suggestion by the court that for all
that appears the retailers, buying the wood cheaper, may
have lowered their own price, and thus passed on to the
consumer the benefit of the saving. The inference is a
fair one that this is not always done, and perhaps not even
generally. If they lower the price at all, there is no reason
to believe that they do so to an amount equivalent to
the saving to themselves.
But saving to the consumer, though it be made out,
does not obliterate the prejudice. Fair competition is
not attained by balancing a gain in money against a misrepresentation of the thing supplied. The courts must
set their faces against a conception of business standards
so corrupting in its tendency. The consumer is prejudiced if upon giving an order for one thing, he is supplied
with something else. Federal Trade Coqnm'n v. Royal
Milling Co., 288 U.S. 212, 216; Carlsbadv. W. T. Thackeray & Co., 57 Fed. 18. In such matters, the public is
entitled to get what it chooses, though the choice may be
dict'ated by caprice or by fashion or perhaps by ignorance.
Nor is the prejudice only to the consumer. Dealers and
-manufacturers are prejudiced when orders that would
have come to them if the lumber had been rightly named,
are diverted to others whose methods are less scrupulous.
"A method inherently unfair does not cease to be so
because thoge competed against have become aware of the
wrongful practice." Federal Trade Comm'n v. Winsted

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

79

Opinion of the Court.

Hosiery Co., 258 U.S. 483, 494.2 The careless and the
unscrupulous must rise to the standards of the scrupulous
and diligent. The Commission was not organized to drag
the standards down.
Third. The argument is made that the name for the
respondents' lumber was adopted more than thirty years
ago without fraudulent design, and that a continuation of
the use is not unfair competition, though confusion may
have developed when the business, spreading eastward,
attained national dimensions.
The Commission made, no finding as to the motives
animating the respondents in the choice of the contested
name. The respondents say it was chosen to distinguish
their variety of yellow pine from the harder yellow pines
native to the southern states. We may assume that this
is so. The fact remains, however, that the pines were not
white either botanically or commercially, though the opportunity for confusion may have been comparatively
slight when the sales were restricted to customers in local
markets, buying for home consumption. Complaints, if
there were any, must have been few and inarticulate at
a time when there was no supervisory body to hold business to its duty. According to the law as then adjudged,
many competitive practices that today may be suppressed
(Federal Trade Comm'n v. Winsted Hosiery Co., supra),
were not actionable wrongs, the damage to the complainants being classified often as collateral and remote. American Washboard Co. v. Saginaw Mfg. Co., 103 Fed. 281,"
286.' The Federal Trade Commission was not organized
till 1914, its jurisdiction then as now confined to interstate and foreign commerce. Silence up to that time is
'The many cases in which the Federal Trade Commission has acted
to prevent misbranding or like misrepresentation will be found col-.
lected in Henderson, The Federal Trade Commission, p. 182, et seq.
'The cases are reviewed by Henderson, The Federal Trade Commission, p. 179, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

not even a faint token that the misapplied name had the
approval of the industry. It may well have meant no
more than this, that the evil was not great, or that there
was no champion at hand to put an end to the abuse.
Even silence thereafter Will not operate as an estoppel
against the community at large, whatever its effeot upon
individuals asserting the infringement of proprietary interests. French Republic v. Saratoga Vichy Co., 191 U.S.
427. There is no bar through lapse of time to a proceeding in the public interest to set an industry in order by
removing the occasion for deception or mistake, unless
submission has gone so far that the occasion for misunderstanding, or for any so widespread as to be worthy of
correction, is already at an end. Competition may then
be fair irrespective of its origin. This will happen, for
illustration, when by common acceptation the description,
once misused, has acquired a secondary meaning as firmly
anchored as the first one. Till then, with every new transaction, there is a repetition of the wrong.
The evidence here falls short of establishing two meanings with equal titles to legitimacy by force of common
acceptation. On the contrary, revolt against the pretender, far from diminishing, has become increasingly
acute. With the spread of business eastward, the lumber
dealers who sold pines from the states of the Pacific Coast
were involved in keen competition with dealers in lumber
from the pines of the east and middle west. In the wake
of dompetition came confusion and deception, the volume
mounting to its peak in the four or five years before the
Commission resolved to act. Then, if not before,. misbranding of the pines was something more than a venial
wrong. The respondents, though at fault from the beginning, had been allowed to go their way without obstruction while the mischief was not a crying one. They
were not at liberty to enlarge the area of their business
without adjusting their methods to the needs of new con-

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. ALGOMA CO.
67

81

.Opinion of the Court.

ditions. An analogy may be found in thedecisions on the
law of trade marks, where the principle is applied that a
name legitimate in one territory may generate confusion
when carried into another, and must then be given up.
Hanover Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U.S. 403, 416; United
Drug Co. v. Rectanus Co., 248 U.S. 90, 100. More than
half the members of the industry have disowned the misleading name by voluntary action and are trading under
a new one. The respondents who hold out are not relieved by innocence of motive from a duty to conform.
Competition may be unfair within the meaning of this
statute and within the scope of the discretionary powers
conferred on the Commission, though the practice condemned does not amount to fraud as understood in courts
of law. Indeed there is a kind of fraud, as courts of equity
have long perceived, in clinging to a benefit which is the
product of misrepresentation, however innocently made.
Redgrave v. Hurd, L.R. 20 Ch.D. 1, 12, 13; Rawlins v.
Wickham, 3 De G. & J. 304, 317; Hammond v. Pennock,
61 N.Y. 145, 152. That is the respondents' plight today,
no matter what their motives nay have been when they
began. They must extricate themselves from it by purging their business methods of a capacity to deceive.
Fourth. Finally, the argument is made that the restraining orders are not necessary to protect the public
interest (see Federal Trade Comm'n v. Royal Milling Co.,
supra),.but to the contrary that the public interest will
be promoted by increasinig the demand for Pinus ponderosa, though it be sold with a misleading label, and thus
abating the destruction of the pine forests of the east.
The conservation of our forests is a good of large importance, but the end will have to be attained by methods
other than a license to do business unfairly.
The finding of unfair competition being supported by
the testimony, the Commission did not abuse its discretion in reaching the conclusion that no change of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

name short of the excision -of the word "white" would
give adequate protection.
The judgment is
Revetsed.

MORRISON

ET AL.

v. CALIFORNIA.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 487.

Argued December 12, 13, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. The Alien Land Law of California forbids that an alien who is
neither a citizen nor eligible for naturalization shall occupy land
for agricultural purposes, unless permitted by treaty; makes conspiracy of two or more persons to violate the prohibition a crime;
and further provides that where the State proves occupation or use
of such land by any defendant, and the indictment alleges his
alienage and ineligibility, the onus of -proving his citizenship or
eligibility shall devolve upon the defense.
(1) Where two persons, charged with such a conspiracy, were
convictcd upon proof merely that one of them, alleged to be an
alien Japanese, ineligible to citizenship, had gone upon agricultural
land and used itunder an agreement with the other, whose citizenship was not involved, held that the conviction, as to*both, was
without due process of law:
(a) In the case of the lessor, the statutory presumption of the
lessee's disqualification and of the lessor's knowledge of it, based
only on the lease and possession, is purely arbitrary. Pp. 90-92.
(b) In the ease of the lessee, the shifting of the burden of proof
is likewise unjustifiable, first, because a lease of agricultural land
conveys no hint of criminality; and secondly, because there is in
general no practical necessity for relieving the prosecution of the
necessity of proving Japanese race,-the appearance of the defendant, and expert testimony, will suffice; and because, in the exceptional case, where the appearance of Japanese blood is obscured by
admixtures of white or African blood, the promotion of convenience
froni the point of view of the prosedution will be outweighed by the
probability of injustice to the accused: one whose racial origins are
so blendedas not to be discoverable at sight will often be unaware
of them. Pp. 93-96.
(2) Morrison v. California,288 U.S. 591, distinguished,-a case
involving a different section of the statute and in which the burden

