HELVERING v. FALK.
Syllabus.

170

yond the date of death. So far as what was said by the
court in that case may be regarded as bearing upon the
question presented in the instant case, it was, and was
stated to be, unnecessary to the decision. In the case of
Pharr,there were provisions in the policy, quite different
from those before us, which were of doubtful meaning.
The views expressed by the court may be taken as limited
to the facts of the particular case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER

REVENUE, v. FALK

ET AL.,

OF

INTERNAL

EXECUTORS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 225.

Argued Decenber 11, 1933.-Decided January 15, 1934.

1. An iron ore mine, the estimated life of which was nine years, while
subject to a fourteen year lease providing for royalties, was conveyed to trustees to hold during two lives and twenty-one years,
with power to manage, sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise dispose
thereof. The (Iced, without setting up a reserve for depletion, directed that all proceeds (less expenses) be distributed to the beneficiaries. Large sums were collected by the trustees as royalties
under the lease and distributed to the beneficiaries. Held, the
beneficiaries were the owners of the entire economic interest in the
mine, and, under the Revenue Acts of 1921, 1924 and 1926 were entitled to an allowance of a deduction for depletion, each in his proportionate share. Distinguishing Anderson v. Vilsoi. 289 U.S. 20.
Pp. 187, 189.
2. The plain pur)ose of the Revenue Act of 1921 (and corresponding
provisions of the 1924 and 1926 Acts), in respect to income from
mining properties, was to tax only that portion of the proceeds
remaining after proper allowance for depletion; and the act must
be so applied in practice as to carry out that purpose. P. 187.
3. The immunity from taxation granted by the Revenue Acts (since
1913) to the proceeds of mining property to the extent that they
represent actual depletion, eMures to the beneficial owners of the
economic interest. P. 187.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

4. Section 219 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1921 (and corresponding sections of the 1924 and 1926 Acts) which directs that where income is
to be distributed to the beneficiaries periodically, " the tax shall not
be paid by the fiduciary, but there shall be included in computing
the net income of each beneficiary that part of the income of the
estate or trust for its taxable year which, pursuant to the instrument or order governing the distribution, is distributable to such
beneficiary," was not intended to impose a tax upon that part of
the proceeds which represents the return of capital assets, whenever this has been paid over to the beneficiary. Pp. 188-189.
64 F. (2d) 171, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 616, to review a judgment re-

versing orders of the Board of Tax Appeals, 24 B.T.A.
299, which sustained deficiencies determined by the
Commissioner.
Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Mr. Sewall Key, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles F. Fawsett, with whom Mr. Richard S.
Doyle was on the brief, for respondentF
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Bristol iron ore mine in Michigan, while subject to
a fourteen year lease providing for royalties of nineteen
cents per ton, was conveyed to three trustees to hold during two lives and twenty-one years with power to manage,
sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise dispose thereof. After
providing for payment of taxes, expenses, etc., the deed
directed:
"Except as above authorized to be expended, paid out or
retained, all proceeds which shall come to the hands of the
Trustees from said property or from any use which may
be made thereof, or from any source whatsoever hereunder as received by the Trustees shall belong to and be

HELVERING v. FALI.
183

Opinion of the Court.

the property of the beneficiaries hereunder to be distributed and paid over to them in proportion to and in accordance with their respective interests as shown herein,
or as the same shall from time to time appear as hereinafter provided."
Respondents are the beneficiaries under the deed and
owners of the entire economic interest in the mine. Its
life was estimated as nine years. Proper depletion allowance would be 13.255 cents per ton of ore extracted.
During the years 1922 to 1926 the trustees collected
large sums as royalties. After deducting expenses they
distributed what remained among the beneficiaries.
Claims for depletion made by the trustees in their tax
returns were disallowed.
Each beneficiary claimed the right to deduct from the
total received his proportionate share of the depletion.
This, he maintained, was not subject to taxation under
the statute. The Commissioner demanded payment reekoned upon the whole amount; and the Board of Tax
Appeals accepted his view. The court below thought
otherwise and sustained the taxpayers.
There is no substantial dispute concerning the facts.
Our decision must turn upon construction of the statute.
The Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 239,
242, 246, 247, imposes a tax upon the net income of property held in trust, §§ 210, 211, 219, and directs that in
order to determine this there shall be deducted from
gross "in the case of mines, oil and gas wells, other natural deposits, and timber, a reasonable allowance for depletion and for depreciation of improvements, according
to the peculiar conditions in each case." § 214 (a) (10).
Also it requires the fiduciary to make return of the
income of the trust, § 219 (b), and provides that whenever income must be distributed to beneficiaries periodically the amounts paid out shall be allowed as an addi-

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

tional deduction in computing the net income of the
trust. In the latter event there shall be included in
computing the net income of each beneficiary so much
of the income of the trust as he has received. § 219 (e).*
The relevant provisions of the Revenue Acts of 1924
(c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 269, 272, 275) and 1926 (c. 27, 44
Stat. 9, 26, 28, 32) are substantially the same as those
in the Act of 1921.
The argument for the Commissioner is this-The entire
proceeds from the working of a mine constitute income
within the constitutional provision and may be subjected
to taxation without regard to depletion. Here the beneficiary claims deduction for an item subject to taxation as
gross income; but no provision in the statute allows him
to subtract anything because of depletion.
Moreover, § 219 expressly requires every beneficiary to
include in his return the portion of the income of a trust
distributed to him. Thus in terms he is subjected to taxation upon the whole of this.
Whatever may be said concerning the power of Congress to treat the entire proceeds of a mine as income, ob*

Revenue Act, 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 247.

Sec. 219 (e). In the case of an estate or trust the income of which
consists both of income of the class described in paragraph (4) of
subdivision (a) of this section and other income, the net income of the

estate or trust shall be computed and a return thereof made by the
fiduciary in accordance with subdivision (b) and the tax shall be imposed, and shall be paid by the fiduciary in accordance with subdivision (c), except that there shall be allowed as an additional deduction
in computing the net income of the estate or trust that part of its
income of the class described in paragraph (4) of subdivision (a)
which, pursuant to the instrument or order governing the distribution,
is distributable during its taxable year to the beneficiaries. In eases
under this subdivision there shall be included, as provided in subdivision (d) of this section, in computing the net income of each beneficiary, that part of the income of the estate or trust which, pursuant
to the instrument or order governing the distribution, is distributable
during the taxable year to such beneficiary.

HELVERING v. FALK.
183

Opinion of the Court.

viously this statute has not undertaken so to do. The
plain purpose, we think, was to tax only that portion of
the proceeds remaining after proper allowance for depletion. This allowance represents property consumed, is
treated as if capital assets, and no tax is laid upon it.
The statute must be so applied in practice as to carry
out this purpose. The intention was that owners of beneficial interests should not be unduly burdened.
Since 1913 all Revenue Acts have left untaxed the proceeds of a mine so far as these represent actual depletion.
And this court has often recognized that this immunity
enures to the beneficial owners of the economic interest.
Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267 U.S. 364, 370.
"The plain, clear and reasonable meaning of the statute
seems to be that the reasonable allowance for depletion
in case of a mine is to be made to every one whose property right and interest therein has been depleted by the
extraction and disposition 'of the product thereof which
has been mined and sold during the year for which the return and computation are made.'"
United States v. Ludey, 274 U.S. 295, 302. "The depletion charge permitted as a deduction from the gross income in determining the taxable income of mines for any
year represents the reduction in the mineral contents of
the reserves from which the product is taken. The reserves are recognized as wasting assets. The depletion effected by operation is likened to the using up of raw
material in making the product of a manufacturing establishment, As the cost of the raw material must be deducted from the gross income before the net income can be
determined, so the estimated cost of the part of the reserve
used up is allowed."
Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287 U.S. 299, 302. "We
think it no longer open to doubt that when the execution
of an oil and gas lease is followed by production of oil, the
bonus and royalties paid to the lessor both involve at

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

least some return of his capital investment in oil in the
ground, for which a depletion allowance must be made."
Palmer v. Bender, 287 U.S. 551, 557. "That the allowance for depletion is not made dependent upon the
particular legal form of the taxpayer's interest in the
property to be depleted was recognized by this Court in
Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267 U.S. 364. . . . But
this Court held that regardless of the technical ownership
of the ore before severance, the taxpayer, by his lease, had
acquired legal control of a valuable economic interest in
the ore capable of realization as gross income by the
exercise of his mining rights under the lease. Depletion
was, therefore, allowed. Similarly, the lessor's right to a
depletion allowance does not depend upon his retention
of ownership or any other particular form of legal interest
in the mineral content of the land. It is enough if, by
virtue of the leasing transaction, he has retained a right
to share in the oil produced. If so he has an economic
interest in the oil, in place, which is depleted by
production."
Freuler v. Helvering, ante, p. 35, construed § 219. We
there said-" Plainly the section contemplates the taxation of the entire net income of the trust. Plainly, also,
the fiduciary, in computing net income, is authorized to
make whatever appropriate deductions other taxpayers
are allowed by law. The net income ascertained by this
operation, and that only, is the taxable income. . . . But
as the tax on the entire net income of the trust is to be
paid by the fiduciary or 1he b1elleficiaries or partly by
each, the beneficiary's sharc of the il.come is coisidered
his property from the momenit of its receipt by the
estate. . . . For the purpose of imposing the tax the
Act regards ownership, the right of )roperty in the
beneficiary, as equivalent to physical possession."
True it is that § 219 (b) directs that in cases of" income
which is to be distributed to the beneficiaries periodically,"

HELVERING v. FALK.
183

STONE, J.,

dissenting.

S.
" the tax shall not be paid by the fiduciary, but there
shall be included in computing the net income of each
beneficiary that part of the income of the estate or trust
for its taxable year which, pursuant to the instrument or
order governing the distribution, is distributable to such
beneficiary." But we cannot accept the view that this
was intended to impose a tax upon that part of the proceeds which represents the return of capital assets, whenever this has been paid over to the beneficiary. In cases
like the one before us so to hold would in practice result
in taxing allowances for depletion, contrary to what we
regard as the plain intent of the statute.
The petitioner relies upon Anderson v. Wilson, 289 U.S.
20, 26. The conclusion there rests upon the construction
of the will. Under it the beneficiaries became entitled to'
no income until the executors in their discretion should
sell the corpus. "What was given to them was the money

forthcoming from a sale. . . Their interest in the corpus
was that and nothing more. . . . A shrinkage of values

between the creation of the power of sale and its discretionary exercise is a loss to the trust, which may be
allowable as a deduction upon a return by the trustees.
It is not a loss to a legatee who has received his legacy in
full."
Here the governing instrument directed payment to the
beneficiaries of the entire proceeds, less expenditures, etc.,
and the trustees must be regarded as a mere conduit for
passing them to the beneficial owners. Part only of the
proceeds was subjected to taxation. The other part
was left untaxed and remained so in the hands of the
beneficiaries.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the judgment should be reversed.
By a trust created by the lessor of a mine, the trustees
were authorized to collect the stipulated cash royalties

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
STONE,

J.,

dissenting.

291 U.S.

of 19 per ton on ore mined, and to distribute them to the
beneficiaries, who are the taxpayers here, without setting
up any reserve for depletion of the lessor's capital investment in the mine. The beneficiaries were given no other
interest in the trust property or its income. It is not
denied that the entire amount thus received by them is
income which may be taxed. See Burnet v. Harmel, 287
U.S. 10:3, 107, 108; Bankers Pocahontas Coal Co. v. Burnet, 287 U.S. 308, 310; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240
U.S. 103, 114; cf. Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U.S. 339. And
the tax is imposed on the entire amount received, subject only to such deductions as the statute permits. The
sole question to be decided is whether they are entitled
to the benefit of the statute authorizing the taxpayer, in
computing the tax, to deduct from income " a reasonable
allowance for depletion and for depreciation of improvements according to the peculiar conditions in each case."
As the statute permits the deduction only because the
allowance represents a return to the taxpayer, in the form
of income, for some part of his capital worn away or exhausted in the process of producing the income, see
Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287 U.S. 299; Bankers Pocahontas Coal Co. v. Burnet, supra; United States v. Dakota-Montana,Oil Co., 288 U.S. 459, it would seem plain
that there is no occasion for a depletion allowance, and
that the statute 'authorizes none where as here the taxpayer, a donee of the income, has made no capital investment in the property which has produced it. This
was not doubted where the deduction claimed, but denied,
was for depreciation, Weiss v. Wiener, 279 U.S. 333, and
it was only because the court concluded that the taxpayer had made a capital investment, represented by the
minerals in place, that he was permitted to deduct an allowance for depletion from royalties received from the
production of an oil well in Palmer v. Bender, 287 U.S.

HELVERING v. FALK.
183

STONE, J., dissenting.

551, and of a mine in Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267
U.S. 364. The function of the allowance for depletion as
a means of securing to the taxpayer a credit against gross
income for so much of his capital investment as is restored
from the income does not differ from that for depreciation
or obsolescence when allowed as a deduction. See United
States v. Ludey, 274 U.S. 295; Gambrinus Brewery Co. v.
Anderson, 282 U.S. 638; United States v. Dakota-Montana Oil Co., supra. Legally and economically the statutory allowances for depletion and depreciation stand on
the same footing. Both are means of restoring capital
invested, the one, in ore, the other, in structures and
improvements. Both are allowed by the same language in
a single statute. Neither has any function to perform if
the taxpayer has made no investment to be restored from
income received. The incongruity of allowing the deduction for depletion where the taxpayer has made no capital
investment but denying it for depreciation is apparent.
The income here, derived from mining royalties, cannot
be said to be a return of the taxpayer's capital because if
paid to the lessor it would have restored to him some
part of his capital investment. The lessor, by directing
that the royalties be distributed to the beneficiaries, cut
himself off from the enjoyment of the privilege which the
statute gives to restore his capital investment from royalties, and he has denied that privilege to the trustees. The
taxpayer may not claim the benefit of a deduction which
the statute grants to another, Dalton v. Bowers, 287 U.S.
404; Burnet v. Clark, 287 U.S. 410; Burnet v. Commonwealth Improvement Co., 287 U.S. 415, and the petitioners
are in no better position to claim the privilege because the
lessor, to whom it was given, has relinquished it.
MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR.JUSTICE CARDOZO concur
in this opinion.

