OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT, SECRETARY OF STATE
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
No. 96-1060.

Argued November 4, 1997-Decided April 22, 1998

Petitioner was born out of wedlock in 1970 in the Philippines. Her
mother is a Filipino national. Her father, Charlie Miller, is an American citizen residing in Texas who served in the United States military
in the Philippines at the time of petitioner's conception. He never married petitioner's mother, and there is no evidence that he was in the
Philippines at the time of her birth or that he ever returned there after
completing his tour of duty. In 1992, the State Department denied petitioner's application for registration as a United States citizen. After a
Texas court granted Mr. Miller's petition for a paternity decree finding
him to be her father, petitioner reapplied for citizenship status, which
was again denied on the ground that the Texas decree did not satisfy 8
U. S. C. § 1409(a)(4)'s requirement that a child born out of wedlock and
outside the United States to an alien mother and an American father be
legitimated before age 18 in order to acquire citizenship. Petitioner
and Mr. Miller then sued the Secretary of State in Federal District
Court in Texas, seeking a judgment declaring her to be a United States
citizen. They emphasized that the citizenship of an out-of-wedlock,
foreign-born child of an alien father and an American mother is established at birth under § 1409(c), and alleged that § 1409's different treatment of citizen fathers and citizen mothers violated Mr. Miller's Fifth
Amendment equal protection right by utilizing the suspect classification
of gender without justification. Concluding that Mr. Miller did not have
standing, the court dismissed him as a party and transferred venue to
the District Court for the District of Columbia. That court dismissed
the suit on the ground that federal courts do not have power to grant
citizenship. The Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that petitioner had
standing to sue, but concluding that the § 1409 requirements imposed on
a child like her, but not on the foreign-born, out-of-wedlock child of an
American mother, were justified by governmental interests in fostering
the child's ties with this country and with her citizen parent.
Held, The judgment is affirmed.
96 F. 3d 1467, affirmed.
JUSTICE STEVENS, joined by THE CHIEF JUSTICE, concluded that
§ 1409(a)(4)'s requirement that children born abroad and out of
wedlock to citizen fathers, but not to citizen mothers, obtain formal

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Syllabus
proof of paternity by age 18 does not violate the Fifth Amendment.
Pp. 428-445.
(a) The foregoing is the only issue presented by this case's facts.
Certain other issues need not be resolved: Whether Fiallo v. Bell, 430
U. S. 787, dictates the outcome here; the validity of the distinction
drawn by §§ 1401(g) and 1409(c) between residency requirements for
unmarried citizen fathers and unmarried citizen mothers wishing to
transmit citizenship at birth to their foreign-born, out-of-wedlock children; and the validity of §§ 1409(a)(1) and (a)(3), which impose additional
requirements on citizen fathers wishing to transmit such citizenship.
Because petitioner is contesting the Government's refusal to register
and treat her as a citizen, a judgment in her favor would confirm her
pre-existing citizenship rather than grant her rights that she does not
now possess. The Court of Appeals was therefore correct that she has
standing to invoke the federal courts' jurisdiction. Moreover, because
her claim relies heavily on the proposition that her citizen father should
have the same right to transmit citizenship as would a citizen mother,
the Court should evaluate the alleged discrimination against him, as
well as its impact on her. See, e.g., Craigv. Boren, 429 U. S. 190, 193197. Pp. 428-433.
(b) The § 1409(a)(4) rule applicable to each class of out-of-wedlock children born abroad is eminently reasonable and justified by important
Government interests: ensuring reliable proof that a person born out of
wedlock who claims citizenship by birth actually shares a blood relationship with an American citizen; encouraging the development of a
healthy relationship between the citizen parent and the child while the
child is a minor; and fostering ties between the child and the United
States. Male and female parents of foreign-born, out-of-wedlock children are differently situated in several pertinent respects. The child's
blood relationship to its birth mother is immediately obvious and is
typically established by hospital records and birth certificates, but the
relationship to the unmarried father may often be undisclosed and unrecorded in any contemporary public record. Similarly, the child's birth
mother certainly knows of the child's existence and typically will have
immediate custody, whereas, due to the normal interval of nine months
between conception and birth, an unmarried father may not even know
that his child exists, and the child may not know the father's identity.
Section 1409(a)(4)'s requirement-that children born out of wedlock to
citizen fathers obtain formal proof of paternity by age 18, either through
legitimation, written acknowledgment by the father under oath, or
adjudication by a competent court-is well tailored to address these
concerns. The conclusion that Congress may require an affirmative act
by unmarried fathers and their children, but not mothers and their

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Syllabus
children, is directly supported by Lehr v. Robertson, 463 U.S. 248.
Pp. 433-441.
(c) The argument that § 1409(a)(4) is unconstitutional because it is a
stereotypical "gender-based classification" must be rejected. None of
the governmental interests underlying § 1409(a)(4) can be fairly characterized as an accidental byproduct of a traditional way of thinking about
the members of either sex. The biological differences between single
men and single women provide a relevant basis for differing rules governing their ability to confer citizenship on children born out of wedlock
in foreign lands, and an impartial analysis of those differences rebuts
the strong presumption that gender-based legal distinctions are suspect.
Pp. 442-445.
JUSTICE O'CoNNOR, joined by JUSTICE KENNEDY, concluded that petitioner should not be accorded standing to raise her father's gender discrimination claim. This Court applies a presumption against thirdparty standing as a prudential limitation on the exercise of federal
jurisdiction, see, e. g., Singleton v. Wulff, 428 U. S. 106, 113, and that
presumption may only be rebutted in particular circumstances: where a
litigant has suffered injury in fact and has a close relation to a third
party, and where some hindrance to the third party's ability to protect
his or her own interests exists, see Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400, 411.
Petitioner has not demonstrated a genuine obstacle to her father's ability to assert his own rights that rises to the level of a hindrance. Accordingly, she is precluded from raising his equal protection claims in
this case. Although petitioner may still assert her own rights, she cannot invoke a gender discrimination claim that would trigger heightened
scrutiny. Section 1409 draws a distinction based on the gender of the
parent, not the child, and any claim of discrimination based on differential treatment of illegitimate versus legitimate children is not presented
in the question on which certiorari was granted. Thus, petitioner's own
constitutional challenge is subject only to rational basis scrutiny. Even
though § 1409 could not withstand heightened scrutiny, it is sustainable
under the lower standard. Pp. 445-452.
JUSTICE ScALIA, joined by JUSTICE THOMAS, agreed with the outcome of this case on the ground that the complaint must be dismissed
because the Court has no power to provide the relief requested: conferral of citizenship on a basis other than that prescribed by Congress.
Petitioner, having been born outside United States territory, can only
become a citizen by naturalization under congressional authority. See,
e. g., United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S.649, 702-703. If there
is no congressional enactment granting her citizenship, she remains an
alien. By its plain language, 8 U. S. C. § 1409 sets forth a precondition
to the acquisition of citizenship that petitioner admittedly has not met.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of

STEVENS, J.

Thus, even if the Court were to agree that the difference in treatment
between the illegitimate children of citizen fathers and citizen mothers
is unconstitutional, it could not, consistent with the extremely limited
judicial power in this area, see, e. g., Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787, 792,
remedy that constitutional infirmity by declaring petitioner to be a citizen or ordering the State Department to approve her application for
citizenship, see INS v. Pangilinan,486 U.S. 875,884. This is not a case
in which the Court may remedy an alleged equal protection violation by
either expanding or limiting the benefits conferred so as to deny or
grant them equally to all. Pp. 452-459.
STEVENS, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an
opinion, in which REHNQUIST, C. J., joined. O'CONNOR, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which KENNEDY, J., joined, post,
p. 445. SCALIA, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which
THOMAS, J., joined, post, p. 452. GINSBURG, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which SOuTER and BREYER, JJ., joined, post, p. 460. BREYER,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which SOUTER and GINSBURG, JJ., joined,
post, p. 471.

Donald Ross Pattersonargued the cause and filed briefs
for petitioner.
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause for

respondent. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor
General Dellinger, Assistant Attorney General Hunger,

Edward C. DuMont, Michael Jay Singer, and John S.

Koppel.*
JUSTICE STEVENS announced the judgment of the Court
and delivered an opinion, in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE

joins.
There are "two sources of citizenship, and two only: birth
and naturalization." United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169
U. S. 649, 702 (1898). Within the former category, the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution guarantees that

every person "born in the United States, and subject to the
*Walter A Smith, Jr., Steven R. Shapiro, Lucas Guttentag, Sara L.
Mandelbaum, and Martha Davis filed a brief for the American Civil Liberties Union et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

jurisdiction thereof, becomes at once a citizen of the United
States, and needs no naturalization." 169 U. S., at 702.
Persons not born in the United States acquire citizenship by
birth only as provided by Acts of Congress. Id., at 703.
The petitioner in this case challenges the constitutionality
of the statutory provisions governing the acquisition of citizenship at birth by children born out of wedlock and outside
of the United States. The specific challenge is to the distinction drawn by §309 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(INA), 66 Stat. 238, as amended, 8 U. S. C. § 1409, between
the child of an alien father and a citizen mother, on the one
hand, and the child of an alien mother and a citizen father, on
the other. Subject to residence requirements for the citizen
parent, the citizenship of the former is established at birth;
the citizenship of the latter is not established unless and until
either the father or his child takes certain affirmative steps
to create or confirm their relationship. Petitioner contends
that the statutory requirement that those steps be taken
while the child is a minor violates the Fifth Amendment because the statute contains no limitation on the time within
which the child of a citizen mother may prove that she became a citizen at birth.
We find no merit in the challenge because the statute does
not impose any limitation on the time within which the members of either class of children may prove that they qualify
for citizenship. It does establish different qualifications for
citizenship for the two classes of children, but we are persuaded that the qualifications for the members of each of
those classes, so far as they are implicated by the facts of
this case, are well supported by valid governmental interests. We therefore conclude that the statutory distinction
is neither arbitrary nor invidious.
I
Petitioner was born on June 20, 1970, in Angeles City, Republic of the Philippines. The records of the Local Civil

Cite as: 528 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Registrar disclose that her birth was registered 10 days
later, that she was named Lorena Pefiero, that her mother
was Luz Pefiero, a Filipino national, and that her birth was
"illegitimate." Spaces on the form referring to the name
and the nationality of the father are blank.
Petitioner grew up and received her high school and college education in the Philippines. At least until after her
21st birthday, she never lived in the United States. App.
19. There is no evidence that either she or her mother ever
resided outside of the Philippines.'
Petitioner's father, Charlie Miller, is an American citizen
residing in Texas. 2 He apparently served in the United
States Air Force and was stationed in the Philippines at the
time of petitioner's conception. Id., at 21. He never married petitioner's mother, and there is no evidence that he was
in the Philippines at the time of petitioner's birth or that he
ever returned there after completing his tour of duty. In
1992, Miller filed a petition in a Texas court to establish his
relationship with petitioner. The petition was unopposed
and the court entered a "Voluntary Paternity Decree" finding him "to be the biological and legal father of Lorelyn Penero Miller." The decree provided that "[t]he parent-child
relationship is created between the father and the child as if
the child were born to the father and mother during marriage." App. to Pet. for Cert. 38.
1Her mother was born in Leyte. Several years after petitioner's birth,
her mother married a man named Frank Raspotnik and raised a family in
Angeles City. App. 22.
2
Although there is no formal finding that his paternity has been established by clear and convincing evidence, it is undisputed. In a letter to
petitioner's attorney, the State Department acknowledged that it was "satisfied that Mr. Charlie R. Miller, the putative father, is a U. S. citizen, that
he possesses sufficient physical presence in the United States to transmit
citizenship, and that there is sufficient evidence that he had access to the
applicant's mother at the probable time of conception." App. to Pet. for
Cert. 82-33.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

In November 1991, petitioner filed an application for registration as a United States citizen with the State Department.
The application was denied in March 1992, and petitioner
reapplied after her father obtained the paternity decree in
Texas in July 1992. The reapplication was also denied on
the ground that the Texas decree did not satisfy "the requirements of Section 309(a)(4) INA, which requires that a
child born out of wedlock be legitimated before age eighteen
in order to acquire U. S. citizenship under Section 301(g)
INA (formerly Section 301(a)(7) INA)."

Id., at 33.

In fur-

ther explanation of its reliance on §309(a)(4), the denial letter
added: "Without such legitimation before age eighteen, there
is no legally recognized relationship under the INA and the
child acquires no rights of citizenship through an American
citizen parent." 3 Ibid.
II

In 1993, petitioner and her father filed an amended complaint against the Secretary of State in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, seeking a
judgment declaring that petitioner is a citizen of the United
States and that she therefore has the right to possess an
American passport. They alleged that the INA's different
treatment of citizen mothers and citizen fathers violated Mr.
Miller's "right to equal protection under the laws by utilizing
the suspect classification of gender without justification."
App. 11. In response to a motion to dismiss filed by the
3

The comment, of course, related only to cases in which the child born
out of wedlock claims citizenship through her father. Moreover, the reference to age 18 was inaccurate; petitioner was born prior to 1986, when
§309(a) was amended to change the relevant age from 21 to 18, see Pub.
L. 99-653, § 13, 100 Stat. 3657, and she falls within a narrow age bracket
whose members may elect to have the preamendment law apply, see note
following 8 U. S. C. § 1409 (Effective Date of 1986 Amendment) (quoting
§23(e), as added, Pub. L. 100-525, §8(r), 102 Stat. 2619). This oversight
does not affect her case, however, because she was over 21 when the Texas
decree was entered.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Government, the District Court concluded that Mr. Miller
did not have standing and dismissed him as a party. Because venue in Texas was therefore improper, see 28 U. S. C.
§ 1391(e), the court transferred the case to the District Court
for the District of Columbia, the site of the Secretary's residence. The Government renewed its motion in that forum,
and that court concluded that even though petitioner had suffered an injury caused by the Secretary's refusal to register
her as a citizen, the injury was not "redressable" because
federal courts do not have the power to "grant citizenship."
870 F. Supp. 1, 3 (1994) (citing INS v. Pangilinan,486 U. S.
875, 884 (1988)).
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
affirmed, but on different grounds. It first held that petitioner does have standing to challenge the constitutionality
of 8 U. S. C. § 1409(a). If her challenge should succeed, the
court could enter a judgment declaring that she was already
a citizen pursuant to other provisions of the INA. 96 F. 3d
1467, 1470 (1996). On the merits, however, the court concluded that the requirements imposed on the "illegitimate"
child of an American citizen father, but not on the child of a
citizen mother, were justified by the interest in fostering the
child's ties with tlhis country. It explained:
"[W]e conclude, as did the Ninth Circuit, that 'a desire
to promote early ties to this country and to those relatives who are citizens of this country is not a[n ir]rational basis for the requirements made by' sections
1409(a)(3) and (4). Ablang [v. Reno], 52 F. 3d at 806.
Furthermore, we find it entirely reasonable for Congress to require special evidence of such ties between an
illegitimate child and its father. A mother is far less
likely to ignore the child she has carried in her womb
than is the natural father, who may'not even be aware
of its existence. As the Court has recognized, 'mothers
and fathers of illegitimate children are not similarly situated.' Parham v. Hughes, 441 U.S. 347, 355 (1979).

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

'The putative father often goes his way unconscious of
the birth of the child. Even if conscious, he is very
often totally unconcerned because of the absence of any
ties to the mother.' Id. at 355 n. 7 (internal quotation
marks and citation omitted). This sex-based distinction
seems especially warranted where, as here, the applicant
for citizenship was fathered by a U. S. serviceman while
serving a tour of duty overseas." Id., at 1472.
Judge Wald concurred in the judgment despite her opinion
that there is "no rational basis for a law that requires a U. S.
citizen father, but not a U. S. citizen mother, to formally legitimate a child before she reaches majority as well as agree
in writing to provide financial support until that date or forever forfeit the right to transmit citizenship." Id., at 1473.
While she agreed that "requiring some sort of minimal 'family ties' between parent and child, as well as fostering an
early connection between child and country, is rational government policy," she did not agree that those goals justify "a
set of procedural hurdles for men-and only men-who wish
to confer citizenship on their children." Id., at 1474. She
nevertheless regretfully concurred in the judgment because
she believed that our decision in Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U. S. 787
(1977), required the court to uphold the constitutionality of
§ 1409. 96 F. 3d, at 1473.
We granted certiorari to address the following question:
"Is the distinction in 8 U. S. C. § 1409 between 'illegitimate' children of United States citizen mothers and
'illegitimate' children of United States citizen fathers a
violation of the Fifth Amendment to the United States
Constitution?" 520 U. S. 1208 (1997).
III
Before explaining our answer to the single question that
we agreed to address, it is useful to put to one side certain

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

issues that need not be resolved. First, we need not decide
whether Fiallo v. Bell dictates the outcome of this case, because that case involved the claims of several aliens to a special immigration preference, whereas here petitioner claims
4
that she is, and for years has been, an American citizen.
Additionally, Fialloinvolved challenges to the statutory distinctions between "illegitimate" and "legitimate" children,
which are not encompassed in the question presented in this
case and which we therefore do not consider.
The statutory provision at issue in this case, 8 U. S. C.
§ 1409, draws two types of distinctions between citizen fathers and citizen mothers of children born out of wedlock.
The first relates to the class of unmarried persons who may
transmit citizenship at birth to their offspring, and the second defines the affirmative steps that are required to transmit such citizenship.
With respect to the eligible class of parents, an unmarried
father may not transmit his citizenship to a child born abroad
to an alien mother unless he satisfies the residency require4The sections of the INA challenged in Fiallo defined the terms "child"

and "parent," which determine eligibility for the special preference immigration status accorded to the "childrene' and "parents" of United States
citizens and lawful permanent residents. Fiallo v. Bell, 430 U.S. 787,
788-789 (1977). "'Child!" was defined to include "'an illegitimate child,
by, through whom, or on whose behalf a status, privilege, or benefit is
sought by virtue of the relationship of the child to its natural mother."'
Id., at 788-789, n. 1 (quoting 8 U. S. C. § 1101(b)(1)(D) (1976 ed.)). Thus,
the statute did not permit an illegitimate child to seek preference by
virtue of relationship with its citizen or resident father, nor could an
alien father seek preference based on his illegitimate child's citizenship
or residence. 430 U. S., at 789. Following this Court's decision in Fiallo
upholding those provisions, in 1986 Congress amended the INA to recognize "child" and "parent" status where the preference is sought based on
the relationship of a child born out of wedlock to its natural father "if
the father has or had a bona fide parent-child relationship with the person." Pub. L. 99-603, § 815(a), 100 Stat. 3439, as amended, 8 U.S. C.
§ 1101(b)(1)(D) (1982 ed., Supp. IV).

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

ment in § 1401(g) that applies to a citizen parent who is married to an alien.5 Under that provision, the citizen parent
must have resided in the United States for a total of at least
five years, at least two of which were after attaining the age
of 14 years.6 If the citizen parent is an unmarried mother,
however, § 1409(c) rather than § 1401(g) applies; under that
subsection she need only have had one year of continuous
residence in the United States in order to confer citizenship
on her offspring.7 Since petitioner's father satisfied the residency requirement in § 1401(g), the validity of the distinction
between that requirement and the unusually generous provision in § 1409(c) is not at issue.8
5

See 8 U. S. C. § 1409(a) (directing that §§ 1401(c), (d), (e), (g) and 1408(2)

"shall
apply" if the specified conditions of § 1409(a) are met).
6
Title 8 U. S.C.§1401 provides:
"The following shall be nationals and citizens of the United States at
birth:
"(g) a person born outside the geographical limits of the United States
and its outlying possessions of parents one of whom is an alien, and the
other a citizen of the United States who, prior to the birth of such person,
was physically present in the United States or its outlying possessions for
a period or periods totaling not less than five years, at least two of which
were after attaining the age of fourteen years ....
"
Prior to its amendment in 1986, the section had required residence of
10 total years, at least 5 of which were after attaining the age of 14. See
§801(a)(7),
66 Stat. 236.
7
Section 309(c) of the INA, codified in 8 U. S. C. § 1409(c), provides:
"(c) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (a) of this section, a person born, after December 23, 1952, outside the United States and out of
wedlock shall be held to have acquired at birth the nationality status of
his mother, if the mother had the nationality of the United States at the
time of such person's birth, and if the mother had previously been physically present in the United States or one of its outlying possessions for a
continuous period of one year."
8The Government has offered two explanations for the special rule applicable to unmarried citizen mothers who give birth abroad: first, an assumption that the citizen mother would probably have custody, and second,

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, .

As for affirmative steps, § 1409(a), as amended in 1986, imposes four requirements concerning unmarried citizen fathers that must be satisfied to confer citizenship "as of the
date of birth" on a person born out of wedlock to an alien
mother in another country. Citizenship for such persons is
established if:
"(1) a blood relationship between the person and the
father is established by clear and convincing evidence,
"(2) the father had the nationality of the United
States at the time of the person's birth,
"(3) the father (unless deceased) has agreed in writing
to provide financial support for the person until the person reaches the age of 18 years, and
"(4) while the person is under the age of 18 years"(A) the person is legitimated under the law of the
person's residence or domicile,
"(B) the father acknowledges paternity of the person
in writing under oath, or
"(C) the paternity of the person is established by adjudication of a competent court." 8 U. S. C. § 1409(a).
Only the second of these four requirements is expressly
included in § 1409(c), the provision applicable to unwed citizen mothers. See n. 7, supra. Petitioner, relying heavily
on Judge Wald's separate opinion below, argues that there is
no rational basis for imposing the other three requirements
on children of citizen fathers but not citizen mothers. The
first requirement is not at issue here, however, because the
Government does not question Mr. Miller's blood relationship
with petitioner.
that in most foreign countries the nationality of an illegitimate child is
that of the mother unless paternity has been established. The Government submits that the special rule would minimize the risk that such a
child might otherwise be stateless. See Brief for Respondent 32-34.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Moreover, even though the parties have disputed the validity of the third condition 9-and even though that condition
is repeatedly targeted in JUSTICE BREYER'S dissent-we
need not resolve that debate because it is unclear whether
the requirement even applies in petitioner's case; it was
added in 1986, after her birth, and she falls within a special
interim provision that allows her to elect application of the
preamendment § 1409(a), which required only legitimation
before age 21. See n. 3, supra. And even if the condition
did apply to her claim of citizenship, the State Department's
refusal to register petitioner as a citizen was expressly based
on §1409(a)(4). Indeed, since that subsection is written in
the disjunctive, it is only necessary to uphold the least onerous of the three alternative methods of compliance to sustain
the Government's position. Thus, the only issue presented
by the facts of this case is whether the requirement in
§ 1409(a)(4)-that children born out of wedlock to citizen
fathers, but not citizen mothers, obtain formal proof of paternity by age 18, either through legitimation, written acknowledgment by the father under oath, or adjudication by a competent court-violates the Fifth Amendment.
It is of significance that the petitioner in this case, unlike
the petitioners in Fiallo, see 430 U. S., at 790, and n. 3, is
not challenging the denial of an application for special status.
She is contesting the Government's refusal to register and
treat her as a citizen. If she were to prevail, the judgment
in her favor would confirm her pre-existing citizenship
rather than grant her rights that she does not now possess.
9The Government asserts that the purpose of § 1409(a)(8) is "'to facilitate the enforcement of a child support order and, thus, lessen the chance
that the child could become a financial burden to the states."' Brief for
Respondent 25-26, n. 13 (quoting Hearings on H. R. 4823 et al. before the
Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and International Law of the
House Committee on the Judiciary, 99th Cong., 2d Sess., 150 (1986) (statement of Joan M. Clark, Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs)
(hereinafter Hearings)).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

We therefore agree with the Court of Appeals that she has
standing to invoke the jurisdiction of the federal courts.
See 96 F. 3d, at 1469-1470 (distinguishing INS v. Pangilinan,
486 U. S. 875 (1988)). Moreover, because her claim relies
heavily on the proposition that her citizen father should have
the same right to transmit citizenship as would a citizen
mother, we shall evaluate the alleged discrimination against
him as well as its impact on her. See, e. g., Craig v. Boren,
429 U. S. 190, 193-197 (1976).10
IV
Under the terms of the INA, the joint conduct of a citizen
and an alien that results in conception is not sufficient to
produce an American citizen, regardless of whether the citizen parent is the male or the female partner. If the two
parties engage in a second joint act-if they agree to marry
one another-citizenship will follow. The provision at issue
in this case, however, deals only with cases in which no relevant joint conduct occurs after conception; it determines the
ability of each of those parties, acting separately, to confer
citizenship on a child born outside of the United States.
If the citizen is the unmarried female, she must first choose
to carry the pregnancy to term and reject the alternative of
abortion-an alternative that is available by law to many,
and in reality to most, women around the world. She must
then actually give birth to the child. Section 1409(c) re10As

a threshold matter, the Government now argues-though it never
asserted this position below or in opposition to certiorari-that an alien
outside the territory of the United States "has no substantive rights cognizable under the Fifth Amendment." Brief for Respondent 11-12. Even
if that is so, the question to be decided is whether petitioner is such an
alien or whether, as she claims, she is a citizen. Thus, we must address
the merits to determine whether the predicate for this argument is accurate. In the cases on which the Government relies, Johnson v. Eisentrager,339 U. S.763 (1950), and United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez, 494
U. S.259 (1990), it was perfectly clear that the complaining aliens were
not citizens or nationals of the United States.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

wards that choice and that labor by conferring citizenship on
her child.
If the citizen is the unmarried male, he need not participate in the decision to give birth rather than to choose an
abortion; he need not be present at the birth; and for at least
17 years thereafter he need not provide any parental support, either moral or financial, to either the mother or the
child, in order to preserve his right to confer citizenship on
the child pursuant to § 1409(a). In order retroactively to
transmit his citizenship to the child as of the date of the
child's birth, all that § 1409(a)(4) requires is that he be willing
and able to acknowledge his paternity in writing under oath
while the child is still a minor. 8 U. S. C. § 1409(a)(4)(B). In
fact, § 1409(a)(4) requires even less of the unmarried fatherthat provision is alternatively satisfied if, before the child
turns 18, its paternity "is established by adjudication of a
competent court." § 1409(a)(4)(C). It would appear that
the child could obtain such an adjudication absent any
affirmative act by the father, and perhaps even over his
express objection.
There is thus a vast difference between the burdens imposed on the respective parents of potential citizens born
out of wedlock in a foreign land. It seems obvious that the
burdens imposed on the female citizen are more severe than
those imposed on the male citizen by § 1409(a)(4), the only
provision at issue in this case. It is nevertheless argued
that the male citizen and his offspring are the victims of
irrational discrimination because § 1409(a)(4) is the product
of" 'overbroad stereotypes about the relative abilities of men
and women."' Brief for Petitioner 8. We find the argument singularly unpersuasive."
" Though petitioner claims to be a citizen from birth, rather than claiming an immigration preference, citizenship does not pass by descent.

Rog-

ers v. Bellei, 401 U. S. 815, 830 (1971). Thus she must still meet the
statutory requirements set by Congress for citizenship.

United States v. Ginsberg, 248 U. S. 472, 474 (1917).

Id., at 828-830;

Deference to the

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Insofar as the argument rests on the fact that the male
citizen parent will "forever forfeit the right to transmit citizenship" if he does not come forward while the child is a
minor, whereas there is no limit on the time within which
the citizen mother may prove her blood relationship, the argument overlooks the difference between a substantive condition and a procedural limitation. The substantive conduct
of the unmarried citizen mother that qualifies her child for
citizenship is completed at the moment of birth; the relevant
conduct of the unmarried citizen father or his child may
occur at any time within 18 years thereafter. There is, however, no procedural hurdle that limits the time or the method
by which either parent (or the child) may provide the State
Department with evidence that the necessary steps were
taken to transmit citizenship to the child.
The substantive requirement embodied in § 1409(a)(4)
serves, at least in part, to ensure that a person born out of
wedlock who claims citizenship by birth actually shares a
blood relationship with an American citizen. As originally
enacted in 1952, § 1409(a) required simply that "the paternity
of such child [born out of wedlock] is established while such
child is under the age of twenty-one years by legitimation."
66 Stat. 238. The section offered no other means of proving
a biological relationship. In 1986, at the same time that it
modified the INA provisions at issue in FiaZlo in favor of
unmarried fathers and their out-of-wedlock children, see n. 4,
supra, Congress expanded § 1409(a) to allow the two other
alternatives now found in subsections (4)(B) and (4)(C).
political branches dictates "a narrow standard of review of decisions made
by the Congress or the President in the area of immigration and naturalization." Mathews v. Diaz,426 U. S. 67, 82 (1976). Even if, as petitioner
and her amici argue, the heightened scrutiny that normally governs
gender discrimination claims applied in this context, see United States v.
Virginia, 518 U. S.515, 532-534 (1996), we are persuaded that the requirement imposed by § 1409(a)(4) on children of unmarried male, but
not female, citizens is substantially related to important governmental
objectives.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT

Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Pub. L. 99-653, § 13, 100 Stat. 3657. The purpose of the
amendment was to "simplify and facilitate determinations of
acquisition of citizenship by children born out of wedlock to
an American citizen father, by eliminating the necessity of
determining the father's residence or domicile and establishing satisfaction of the legitimation provisions of the jurisdiction." Hearings, at 150. The 1986 amendment also added
§ 1409(a)(1), which requires paternity to be established by
clear and convincing evidence, in order to deter fraudulent
claims; but that standard of proof was viewed as an ancillary
measure, not a replacement for proof of paternity by legitimation or a formal alternative. See id., at 150, 155.
There is no doubt that ensuring reliable proof of a biological relationship between the potential citizen and its citizen
parent is an important governmental objective. See Trimble v. Gordon, 430 U. S. 762, 770-771 (1977); Fialto,430 U. S.,
at 799, n. 8. Nor can it be denied that the male and female
parents are differently situated in this respect. The blood
relationship to the birth mother is immediately obvious and
is typically established by hospital records and birth certificates; the relationship to the unmarried father may often be
undisclosed and unrecorded in any contemporary public record. Thus, the requirement that the father make a timely
written acknowledgment under oath, or that the child obtain
a court adjudication of paternity, produces the rough equivalent of the documentation that is already available to evidence the blood relationship between the mother and the
child. If the statute had required the citizen parent,
whether male or female, to obtain appropriate formal documentation within 30 days after birth, it would have been
"gender-neutral" on its face, even though in practical operation it would disfavor unmarried males because in virtually
every case such a requirement would be superfluous for the
mother. Surely the fact that the statute allows 18 years in
which to provide evidence that is comparable to what the

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

mother provides immediately after birth cannot be viewed
as discriminating against the father or his child.
Nevertheless, petitioner reiterates the suggestion that it
is irrational to require a formal act such as a written acknowledgment or a court adjudication because the advent of
reliable genetic testing fully addresses the problem of proving paternity, and subsection (a)(1) already requires proof of
paternity by clear and convincing evidence. See 96 F. 3d,
at 1474. We respectfully disagree. Nothing in subsection
(a)(1) requires the citizen father or his child to obtain a genetic paternity test. It is difficult, moreover, to understand
why signing a paternity acknowledgment under oath prior
to the child's 18th birthday is more burdensome than obtaining a genetic test, which is relatively expensive, 2 normally
requires physical intrusion for both the putative father and
14
child," and often is not available in foreign countries.
Congress could fairly conclude that despite recent scientific
advances, it still remains preferable to require some formal
legal act to establish paternity, coupled with a clear-andconvincing evidence standard to deter fraud. The time limi7 U. S. Dept. of State, Foreign Affairs Manual § 1131.5-4(c) (1996)
(hereinafter Foreign Affairs Manual). Commercially available testing in
the United States presently appears to cost between about $450 to $600
per test. See Hotaling, Is He or Isn't He?, Los Angeles Times Magazine,
Sept. 7, 1997, pp. 36, 54 (hereinafter Hotaling); Mirabella, Lab's Tests Give
Answers to Genetic Questions, Baltimore Sun, Nov. 25, 1997, pp. IC, 8C,
cols. 2, 4 (hereinafter Mirabella).
13 Laboratories that conduct genetic paternity testing typically use
either blood samples or cells scraped from the inside of the cheek of the
putative father, the child, and often the mother as well. See, e.g., 1 D.
Faigman, D. Kaye, M. Saks, & J. Sanders, Modern Scientific Evidence
§§ 19-2.2, 19-2.7.1, pp. 761, 763, 775 (1997); Hotaling 86, 54; Mirabella, at
8C, cols. 2, 4.
14
The State Department has observed that "the competence, integrity,
and availability of blood testing physicians and facilities vary around the
world." 7 Foreign Affairs Manual §1131.5-4(c). There are presently
about 75 DNA testing laboratories in the United States, 51 of which are
accredited by the American Association of Blood Banks. Hotaling 36.
12See

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

tation, in turn, provides assurance that the formal act is
based upon reliable evidence, and also deters fraud. 5 Congress is of course free to revise its collective judgment and
permit genetic proof of paternity rather than requiring some
formal legal act by the father or a court,16 but the Constitution does not now require any such change.
Section 1409 also serves two other important purposes
that are unrelated to the determination of paternity: the interest in encouraging the development of a healthy relationship between the citizen parent and the child while the child
is a minor; and the related interest in fostering ties between
the foreign-born child and the United States. When a child
is born out of wedlock outside of the United States, the citizen mother, unlike the citizen father, certainly knows of her
child's existence and typically will have custody of the child
immediately after the birth. Such a child thus has the opportunity to develop ties with its citizen mother at an early
age, and may even grow up in the United States if the
mother returns. By contrast, due to the normal interval of
nine months between conception and birth, the unmarried
father may not even know that his child exists, and the child
may not know the father's identity. Section 1409(a)(4) requires a relatively easy, formal step by either the citizen father or his child that shows beyond doubt that at least one
of the two knows of their blood relationship, thus assuring
at least the opportunity for them to develop a personal
relationship.
The facts of this very case provide a ready example of the
concern. Mr. Miller and petitioner both failed to take any
steps to establish a legal relationship with each other before
5
Once a child reaches the legal age of majority, a male citizen could
make a fraudulent claim of paternity on the person's behalf without any
of liability for child support.
risk
16
1n a different context Congress has already recognized the value of
genetic paternity testing. See 96 F. 3d 1467, 1474-1475 (CADC 1996) (discussing Child Support Enforcement Amendments of 1984).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

petitioner's 21st birthday, and there is no indication in the
record that they had any contact whatsoever before she applied fdr a United States passport. Given the size of the
American military establishment that has been stationed in
various parts of the world for the past half century, it is
reasonable to assume that this case is not unusual. In 1970,
when petitioner was born, about 683,000 service personnel
were stationed in the Far East, 24,000 of whom were in the
Philippines. U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Statistical Abstract
of the United States 381 (99th ed. 1978). Of all Americans
in the military at that time, only one percent were female. 17
These figures, coupled with the interval between conception
and birth and the fact that military personnel regularly return to the United States when a tour of duty ends, suggest
that Congress had legitimate concerns about a class of children born abroad out of wedlock to alien mothers and to
American servicemen who would not necessarily know
about, or be known by, their children. It was surely reasonable when the INA was enacted in 1952, and remains equally
reasonable today, for Congress to condition the award of citizenship to such children on an act that demonstrates, at a
minimum, the possibility that those who become citizens will
develop ties with this country-a requirement that performs
a meaningful purpose for citizen fathers but normally would
be superfluous for citizen mothers.
It is of course possible that any child born in a foreign
country may ultimately fail to establish ties with its citizen
parent and with this country, even though the child's citizen
parent has engaged in the conduct that qualifies the child for
citizenship. A citizen mother may abandon her child before
17

Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense, Background Study, Use
of Women in the Military 5 (2d ed. 1978). The proportion of military personnel who were female in 1970 had dropped from a high of 2.2 percent in
1945. Id., at 3. Since 1970, the proportion has steadily increased to its
present level of about 13 percent. See Dept. of Defense, Selected Manpower Statistics 23 (1996).

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of

STEVENS, J.

returning to the States, and a citizen father, even after acknowledging paternity, may die or abscond before his child
has an opportunity to bond with him or visit this country.
The fact that the interest in fostering ties with this country
may not be fully achieved for either class of children does
not qualify the legitimacy or the importance of that interest.
If, as Congress reasonably may have assumed, the formal
requirements in § 1409(a)(4) tend to make it just as likely that
fathers will have the opportunity to develop a meaningful
relationship with their children as does the fact that the
mother knows of her baby's existence and often has custody
at birth, the statute's effect will reduce, rather than aggravate, the disparity between the two classes of children.
We are convinced not only that strong governmental interests justify the additional requirement imposed on children
of citizen fathers, but also that the particular means used in
§ 1409(a)(4) are well tailored to serve those interests. It is
perfectly appropriate to require some formal act, not just
any evidence that the father or his child know of the other's
existence. Such a formal act, whether legitimation, written
acknowledgment by the father, or a court adjudication, lessens the risk of fraudulent claims made years after the relevant conduct was required. As for the requirement that the
formal act take place while the child is a minor, Congress
obviously has a powerful interest in fostering ties with the
child's citizen parent and the United States during his or her
formative years. If there is no reliable, contemporaneous
proof that the child and the citizen father had the opportunity to form familial bonds before the child turned 18, Congress reasonably may demand that the child show sufficient
than through its citizen
ties to this country on its own rather
18
citizen.
a
be
to
order
parent in
18

The same policy presently applies to foreign-born persons not eligible
for citizenship at birth: A child may obtain special immigration preference
and the immediate issuance of a visa based on a parent's citizenship or
lawful residence, but only until age 21. 8 U. S. C. §§ 1101(b)(1), 1153(d).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Our conclusion that Congress may require an affirmative
act by unmarried fathers and their children, but not mothers
and their children, is directly supported by our decision in
Lehr v. Robertson, 463 U. S. 248 (1983). That case involved
a New York law that automatically provided mothers of "illegitimate" children with prior notice of an adoption proceeding and the right to veto an adoption, but only extended
those rights to unmarried fathers whose claim of paternity
was supported by some formal public act, such as a court
adjudication, the filing of a notice of intent to claim paternity,
or written acknowledgment by the mother. Id., at 251-252,
n. 5, 266. The petitioner in Lehr, an unmarried putative father, need only have mailed a postcard to the State's "putative father registry" to enjoy the same rights as the child's
undisputed mother, id., at 264, yet he argued that this
gender-based requirement violated the Equal Protection
Clause. We rejected that argument, and we find the comparable claim in this case, if anything, even less persuasive.
Whereas the putative father in Lehr was deprived of certain
rights because he failed to take some affirmative step within
about two years of the child's birth (when the adoption proceeding took place), here the unfavorable gender-based
treatment was attributable to Mr. Miller's failure to take appropriate action within 21 years of petitioner's birth and
petitioner's own failure to obtain a paternity adjudication by
a "competent court" before she turned 18.19
Even though the rule applicable to each class of children
born abroad is eminently reasonable and justified by important Government policies, petitioner and her amici argue
that § 1409 is unconstitutional because it is a "gender-based
classification." We shall comment briefly on that argument.
19

JUSTICE BREYER questions the relevance of Lehr because it was decided before advances in genetic testing, see post, at 487; there was, however, no question about the paternity of the father in that case. As in
this case, the father there failed to act promptly to establish a relationship
with his child.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

V

The words "stereotype," "stereotyping," and "stereotypical" are used repeatedly in petitioner's and her amici's
briefs. They note that we have condemned statutory classifications that rest on the assumption that gender may serve
as a proxy for relevant qualifications to serve as the administrator of an estate, Reed v. Reed, 404 U. S. 71 (1971), to engage in professional nursing, Mississippi Univ. for Women
v. Hogan, 458 U. S. 718 (1982), or to train for military service,
United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515 (1996), to name a few
examples. Moreover, we have' expressly repudiated cases
that rested on the assumption that only the members of one
sex could suitably practice law or tend bar. See Hogan, 458
U. S., at 725, n. 10 (commenting on Bradwell v. State, 16 Wall.
130 (1873), and Goesaert v. Cleary, 335 U. S. 464 (1948)).
Discrimination that "is merely the accidental byproduct of a
traditional way of thinking about females" is unacceptable.
Califano v. Goldfarb, 430 U. S. 199, 223 (1977) (STEVENS, J.,
concurring in judgment).
The gender equality principle that was implicated in those
2
cases is only indirectly involved in this case for two reasons.
First, the conclusion that petitioner is not a citizen rests on
several coinciding factors, not just the gender of her citizen
parent. On the facts of this case, even if petitioner's mother
had been a citizen 2' and her father had been the alien, petitioner would not qualify for citizenship because her mother
has never been to the United States. Alternatively, if her
citizen parent had been a female member of the Air Force
and, like Mr. Miller, had returned to the States at the end
of her tour of duty, § 1409 quite probably would have been
irrelevant and petitioner would have become a citizen at
'0Of course, the sex of the person claiming citizenship is irrelevant; if
she21were a male, petitioner's case would be no stronger.

Theoretically she might have been the child of an American soldier
stationed in the Philippines during World War II. See Ablang v. Reno,
52 F. 3d 801, 802 (CA9 1995), cert. denied, 516 U. S. 1043 (1996).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

birth by force of the Constitution itself.2 Second, it is not
merely the sex of the citizen parent that determines whether
the child is a citizen under the terms of the statute; rather,
it is an event creating a legal relationship between parent
and child-the birth itself for citizen mothers, but postbirth
conduct for citizen fathers and their offspring. Nevertheless, we may assume that if the classification in § 1409 were
merely the product of an outmoded stereotype, it would be
invalid.
The "gender stereotypes" on which § 1409 is supposedly
premised are (1) "that the American father is never anything
more than the proverbial breadwinner who remains aloof
from day-to-day child rearing duties," 2 and (2) "that a
mother will be closer to her child born out of wedlock than
a father will be to his." 24 Even disregarding the statute's
separate, nonstereotypical purpose of ensuring reliable proof
of a blood relationship, neither of those propositions fairly
reflects the justifications for the classification actually at
issue.
Section 1409(a)(4) is not concerned with either the average
father or even the average father of a child born out of wedlock. It is concerned with a father (a) whose child was born
in a foreign country, and (b) who is unwilling or unable to
acknowledge his paternity, and whose child is unable or unwilling to obtain a court paternity adjudication. A congressional assumption that such a father and his child are especially unlikely to develop a relationship, and thus to foster
the child's ties with this country, has a solid basis even if we
assume that all fathers who have made some effort to
become acquainted with their children are as good, if not
better, parents than members of the opposite sex.
2"All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to
the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State,
wherein they reside." U. S. Const., Amdt. 14, § 1.
2 Brief for American Civil Liberties Union et al. as Amici Curiae 8.
2 96 F. 3d, at 1473 (Wald, J., concurring in judgment).

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Nor does the statute assume that all mothers of illegitimate children will necessarily have a closer relationship with
their children than will fathers. It does assume that all of
them will be present at the event that transmits their citizenship to the child, that hospital records and birth certiflcates will normally make a further acknowledgment and formal proof of parentage unnecessary, and that their initial
custody will at least give them the opportunity to develop a
caring relationship with the child. Section 1409(a)(4)-the
only provision that we need consider-is therefore supported
by the undisputed assumption that fathers are less likely
than mothers to have the opportunity to develop relationships, not simply, as JUSTICE BREYER contends, post, at 482483, that they are less likely to take advantage of that opportunity when it exists.2 These assumptions are firmly
grounded and adequately explain why Congress found it unnecessary to impose requirements on the mother that were
entirely appropriate for the father.
None of the premises on which the statutory classification
is grounded can be fairly characterized as an accidental
byproduct of a traditional way of thinking about the mem2JusTIcE BREYER does not dispute the fact that the unmarried father
of a child born abroad is less likely than the unmarried mother to have
the opportunity to develop a relationship with the child. He nevertheless
would replace the gender-based distinction with either a "knowledge of
birth" requirement or a distinction between "Caretaker and Noncaretaker
Parents." Post, at 487. Neither substitute seems a likely candidate for
serious congressional consideration. The former in practice would be just
as gender based as the present requirement, for surely every mother has
knowledge of the birth when it occurs; nor would that option eliminate the
need for formal steps and time limits to ensure that the parent truly had
knowledge during the child's youth. The latter would be confusing at
best, for JusTIcE BREYER does not tell us how he would decide whether
a father like Mr. Miller would qualify as a "caretaker" or a "noncaretaker"; and it would also be far less protective of families than the
present statute, for it would deny citizenship to out-of-wedlock children
who have relationships with their citizen parents but are not in the primary care or custody of those parents.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
O'CoNNOR, J., concurring in judgment

bers of either sex. The biological differences between single men and single women provide a relevant basis for differing rules governing their ability to confer citizenship on
children born in foreign lands. Indeed, it is the suggestion
that simply because Congress has authorized citizenship at
birth for children born abroad to unmarried mothers, it cannot impose any postbirth conditions upon the granting of citizenship to the foreign-born children of citizen fathers, that
might be characterized as merely a byproduct of the strong
presumption that gender-based legal distinctions are suspect. An impartial analysis of the relevant differences between citizen mothers and citizen fathers plainly rebuts
that presumption.26
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, with whom JUSTICE KENNEDY joins,
concurring in the judgment.
This Court has long applied a presumption against thirdparty standing as a prudential limitation on the exercise of
federal jurisdiction. Federal courts, we have held, "must
hesitate before resolving a controversy, even one within
their constitutional power to resolve, on the basis of the
rights of third persons not parties to the litigation." Singleton v. Wulff, 428 U. S. 106, 113 (1976); see also Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 499 (1975). Contrary to this prudential
rule, the principal opinion recognizes that petitioner has
standing to raise an equal protection challenge to 8 U. S. C.
§ 1409. The statute, however, accords differential treatment
to fathers and mothers, not to sons and daughters. Thus,
2 See Michael M. v. Superior Court, Sonoma Cty., 450 U. S. 464, 497498, n. 4 (1981) (STEVENS, J., dissenting). JUSTICE ScALIA argues that
petitioner's suit must be dismissed because the courts have "no power to
provide the relief requested." Post, at 453. Because we conclude that
there is no constitutional violation to remedy, we express no opinion on
this question.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment

although petitioner is clearly injured by the fact that she has
been denied citizenship, the discriminatory impact of the
provision falls on petitioner's father, Charlie Miller, who is
no longer a party to this suit. Consequently, I do not believe that we should consider petitioner's gender discrimination claim.
The principal opinion recognizes that petitioner's claim
turns on "the proposition that her citizen father should have
the same right to transmit citizenship as would a citizen
mother" and resolves to "evaluate the alleged discrimination
against [petitioner's father] as well as its impact on [petitioner]." Ante, at 433. But even when "the very same allegedly illegal act that affects the litigant also affects a third
party," a plaintiff "cannot rest his claim to relief on the legal
rights and interests of [the] third part[y]." Department of
Labor v. Triplett, 494 U. S. 715, 720 (1990) (internal quotation marks omitted). A party raising a constitutional challenge to a statute must demonstrate not only "that the alleged unconstitutional feature [of the statute] injures him"
but also that "he is within the class of persons with respect
to whom the act is unconstitutional." Heald v. District of
Columbia, 259 U. S. 114, 123 (1922). This requirement
arises from the understanding that the third-party rightholder may not, in fact, wish to assert the claim in question,
as well as from the belief that "third parties themselves usually will be the best proponents of their rights." Singleton,
supra, at 113-114; see also Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366,
397 (1898).
In support of the decision to consider Charlie Miller's
claim, both JUSTICE STEVENS, in the principal opinion, and
JUSTICE BREYER, in dissent, cite Craig v. Boren, 429 U. S.
190 (1976). In that case, we allowed a vendor to challenge
a state law that permitted sales of 3.2% beer to females who
had reached the age of 18 but prohibited such sales to males
until they turned 21. Because the law proscribed the sale
rather than the consumption of beer, the Court determined

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment

that a vendor was the "least awkward challenger" to the
gender-based distinction. Id., at 197. We reasoned that
prudential objectives would not be served by rejecting
third-party standing because "the lower court already ha[d]
entertained the relevant constitutional challenge." Id., at
193. Here, however, the court below expressly did not take
account of Charlie Miller's equal protection rights, instead
reviewing petitioner's challenge as a first-party claim of gender discrimination against the children of citizen fathers as
opposed to the children of citizen mothers. See 96 F. 3d
1467, 1470 (CADC 1996).
More importantly, since this Court decided Craig,we have
articulated the contours of the third-party standing inquiry
in greater detail. In Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400 (1991),
we stated that a litigant seeking to assert the rights of another party must satisfy three interrelated criteria: "The litigant must have suffered an injury in fact, thus giving him
or her a sufficiently concrete interest in the outcome of the
issue in dispute; the litigant must have a close relation to the
third party; and there must exist some hindrance to the third
party's ability to protect his or her own interests." Id., at
411 (internal quotation marks and citations omitted); see also
Campbell v. Louisiana, ante, at 397-398. While it seems
clear that petitioner has a significant stake in challenging the
statute and a close relationship with her father, she has not
demonstrated a substantial hindrance to her father's ability
to assert his own rights. Powers and our earlier precedents
suggest that the absence of such an obstacle precludes thirdparty standing. See 499 U. S., at 411 (explaining that "[all]
three important criteria [must be] satisfied," i. e., that there
"must exist some hindrance to the third party's ability to
protect his or her own interests" before the presumption is
rebutted); see also Singleton, supra, at 116 ("Even where
the relationship is close, the reasons for requiring persons to
assert their own rights will generally still apply").

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
O'CONNOR, J.,

concurring in judgment

Petitioner has not demonstrated that Charlie Miller confronted a "genuine obstacle" to the assertion of his own
rights that rises to the level of a hindrance. 428 U. S., at
116; see also Barrows v. Jackson, 346 U. S. 249, 257 (1953)
(third-party standing accorded because it "would be difficult
if not impossible for the persons whose rights are asserted to
present their grievance before any court"). In fact, Charlie
Miller originally filed suit and asserted his own rights but
then opted not to pursue his claim throughout this litigation.
It is true that he was wrongly dismissed from the action by
the Eastern District of Texas, and that the Government
made the misguided argument before that court that "[t]he
rights, if any, which have been injured are those of Lorelyn
Penero Miller, the true plaintiff in this action." See Motion
to Dismiss Plaintiff's First Amended Complaint or, in the
Alternative, to Transfer Venue 4. But because he failed to
appeal the erroneous dismissal of his claim, any hindrance
to the vindication of Charlie Miller's constitutional rights is
ultimately self imposed.
I am reluctant to accept that the Government's litigation
strategy, or an unfavorable ruling in the lower courts, could
be a sufficiently severe obstacle to the assertion of a litigant's
own rights to warrant an exception to our prudential standing requirements. Those requirements were adopted to
serve the institutional interests of the federal courts, not the
convenience of the litigants. See FWIPBS, Inc. v. Dallas,
493 U. S. 215, 231 (1990); Bender v. Williamsport Area
School Dist., 475 U. S. 534, 541 (1986).

JUSTICE BREYER as-

serts that appeals take time and money, and that a change
of venue left Charlie Miller uncertain where to appeal. See
post, at 474. But the only obstacle was the inconvenience
caused by the normal course of litigation, which often involves a transfer of venue. Charlie Miller never indicated
any intent to challenge his dismissal from the suit, and there
is no suggestion that he faced any unusual practical or legal
barriers to filing a notice of appeal. Instituting a suit is it-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment

self burdensome-arguably as burdensome as filing an appeal from the denial of a claim-and to conclude that the
course of events that transpired in this case constituted a
hindrance to Charlie Miller's ability to assert his rights
would be a step toward eliminating the hindrance prong
altogether.
Thus far, we have permitted third-party standing only
where more "daunting" barriers deterred the rightholder.
Powers, supra, at 414. To take an extreme example, in
Hodel v. Irving,481 U. S. 704 (1987), we concluded that plaintiffs had third-party standing to assert the rights of their
deceased parents. Id., at 711-712. And in Powers, we
noted that potential jurors are not parties to the proceeding,
cannot easily obtain declaratory or injunctive relief from a
prosecutor's exercise of peremptory challenges, would find it
difficult to demonstrate a likelihood that discrimination
against them would recur, and have economic disincentives
to filing suit. 499 U. S., at 414-415. Privacy concerns may
also provide a compelling explanation for a third party's absence from the litigation. In Carey v. PopulationServices
Int'l, 431 U. S. 678 (1977), we determined that a vendor could
challenge the law prohibiting the distribution of contraceptives to minors because the desire to avoid publicity would
deter potential purchasers from defending their own rights.
Id., at 684, n. 4; see also Eisenstadtv. Baird, 405 U. S. 438,
446 (1972). Likewise, in NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S. 449 (1958), the Court held that an organization
could raise the privacy rights of its members because litigation initiated by those members would disclose their identity
and destroy the very privacy they sought to protect. Id., at
459. Where insurmountable procedural obstacles preclude
a rightholder's own suit, the Court has also accorded thirdparty standing. In Singleton, we concluded that physicians
could assert the rights of indigent women denied funding for
abortion because imminent mootness prevented the women
from bringing their claims. See 428 U. S., at 108. Simi-

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment

larly, Barrows involved the constitutional rights of the prospective victims of a racially restrictive real estate covenant,
who were unidentified and thus not before the Court. See
346 U. S., at 254. And in Craig, the case from which the
Court garners its sole support for according third-party
standing here, the named plaintiff turned 21 during the
course of the litigation, which mooted his challenge to the
beer-sale restriction. See 429 U. S., at 192.
Where legitimate obstacles such as these exist, which lie
beyond the control of the rightholder, that party's absence
from a suit more likely stems from disability than from disinterest. A hindrance signals that the rightholder did not
simply decline to bring the claim on his own behalf, but could
not in fact do so. See Singleton, supra, at 116 ("If there is
some genuine obstacle . . . the third party's absence from

court loses its tendency to suggest that his right is not truly
at stake, or truly important to him, and the party who is in
court becomes by default the right's best available proponent"). Furthermore, where a hindrance impedes the assertion of a claim, the right likely will not be asserted-and
thus the relevant law will not be enforced-unless the Court
recognizes third-party standing. In Barrows, for example,
the Court permitted third-party standing because "the reasons which underlie [the] rule denying standing to raise
another's rights" were "outweighed by the need to protect
the fundamental rights" which would otherwise have been
denied. 346 U. S., at 257.
Moreover, in contrast to this case, the white property
owner contesting the racially restrictive covenant in Barrows was its "only effective adversary" because she was "the
one in whose charge and keeping repose[d] the power to continue to use her property to discriminate or to discontinue
such use." Id., at 259. Here, although we have an injured
party before us, the party actually discriminated against is
both best suited to challenging the statute and available to
undertake that task. See Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment

Bellwood, 441 U. S. 91, 100 (1979) (prudential barriers seek
"to limit access to the federal courts to those litigants best
suited to assert a particular claim"). In light of petitioner's
uncertain constitutional status and the potential problems
with fashioning a remedy for her injury, see post, at 452-458
(SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment), allowing her to assert
Charlie Miller's claim will likely dilute rather than protect
his constitutional rights.
Although petitioner cannot raise her father's rights, she
may raise her own. While it is unclear whether an alien
may assert constitutional objections when he or she is outside the territory of the United States, see Johnson v. Eisentrager,339 U. S. 763 (1950), and United States v. VerdugoUrquidez, 494 U. S. 259 (1990), I will assume that petitioner
may challenge the constitutionality of § 1409. Her challenge, however, triggers only rational basis scrutiny. As
pointed out above, see supra, at 445, § 1409 does not draw a
distinction based on the gender of the child, so petitioner
cannot claim that she has been injured by gender discrimination. See Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S.737, 755 (1984) (an injury arising from discrimination "accords a basis for standing
only to those persons who are personally denied equal treatment by the challenged discriminatory conduct") (internal
quotation marks omitted). Moreover, the grant of certiorari
was limited to the question whether § 1409 discriminates
"between 'illegitimate' children of United States citizen
mothers and 'illegitimate' children of United States citizen
fathers," so any claim of discrimination based on differential
treatment of illegitimate versus legitimate children is not
presented. See 520 U. S.1208 (1997).
Given that petitioner cannot raise a claim of discrimination
triggering heightened scrutiny, she can argue only that
§ 1409 irrationally discriminates between illegitimate children of citizen fathers and citizen mothers. Although I do
not share JUSTICE STEVENS' assessment that the provision
withstands heightened scrutiny, ante, at 483-444, I believe

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
SCALIA, J.,concurring in judgment

it passes rational scrutiny for the reasons he gives for sustaining it under the higher standard. It is unlikely, in my
opinion, that any gender classifications based on stereotypes
can survive heightened scrutiny, but under rational scrutiny,
a statute may be defended based on generalized classifications unsupported by empirical evidence. See Heller v. Doe,
509 U. S.312, 320 (1993) ("[A] classification must be upheld
against equal protection challenge if there is any reasonably
conceivable state of facts that could provide a rational basis
for the classification. A State, moreover, has no obligation
to produce evidence to sustain the rationality of a statutory
classification" (internal quotation marks and citations omitted)). This is particularly true when the classification is
adopted with reference to immigration, an area where Congress frequently must base its decisions on generalizations
about groups of people.

We adopted the presumption against third-party standing
to preserve the court's "properly limited" role, Warth, 422
U. S., at 498, and we have identified a particular set of
circumstances that will rebut that presumption. I believe
that we should treat those considerations, in particular the
hindrance prong, as meaningful criteria. Consequently, I
would not accord petitioner standing to raise her father's
claim of gender discrimination. Petitioner's own constitutional challenge triggers only rational basis scrutiny, and
§ 1409 is sustainable under that standard. Accordingly, I
concur in the judgment affirming the Court of Appeals'
decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA, with whom JUSTICE THOMAS joins,
concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the outcome in this case, but for a reason
more fundamental than the one relied upon by JUSTICE STEVENS. In my view it makes no difference whether or not

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
SCALA,

J., concurring in judgment

§ 1409(a) passes "heightened scrutiny" or any other test
Members of the Court might choose to apply. The complaint
must be dismissed because the Court has no power to provide the relief requested: conferral of citizenship on a basis
other than that prescribed by Congress.
The Constitution "contemplates two sources of citizenship,
and two only: birth and naturalization." United States v.
Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, 702 (1898). Under the Fourteenth Amendment, "[e]very person born in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, becomes at
once a citizen of the United States, and needs no naturalization." Ibid. Petitioner, having been born outside the territory of the United States, is an alien as far as the Constitution is concerned, and "can only become a citizen by being
naturalized, either by treaty, as in the case of the annexation
of foreign territory; or by authority of Congress." Id., at
702-703; see also Rogers v. Beltei, 401 U. S. 815, 827 (1971).
Here it is the "authority of Congress" that is appealed toits power under Art. I, § 8, cl. 4, to "establish an uniform
Rule of Naturalization." If there is no congressional enactment granting petitioner citizenship, she remains an alien.
The enactment on which petitioner relies is §309 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 66 Stat. 238, as
amended, 8 U. S. C. § 1409, which establishes the requirements for the acquisition of citizenship by a child born out of
wedlock when the child's father is a United States citizen.
Section 1409(a) provides, in relevant part, that § 1401(g),
which confers citizenship on foreign-born children when one
parent is an alien and the other a citizen of the United States,
shall apply:
"(a) ...as of the date of birth to a person born out of
wedlock if"(1) a blood relationship between the person and the
father is established by clear and convincing evidence,
"(2) the father had the nationality of the United
States at the time of the person's birth,

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment

"(3) the father (unless deceased) has agreed in writing
to provide financial support for the person until the person reaches the age of 18 years, and
"(4) while the person is under the age of 18 years"(A) the person is legitimated under the law of the
person's residence or domicile,
"(B) the father acknowledges paternity of the person
in writing under oath, or
"(C) the paternity of the person is established by adjudication of a competent court."
By its plain language, § 1409(a) sets forth a precondition to
the acquisition of citizenship under § 1401(g) by the illegitimate child of a citizen-father. Petitioner does not come into
federal court claiming that she met that precondition, and
that the State Department's conclusion to the contrary was
factually in error. Rather, she acknowledges that she did
not meet the last two requirements of that precondition,
§§ 1409(a)(3) and (4). She nonetheless asks for a "declaratory judgment that [she] is a citizen of the United States"
and an order to the Secretary of State requiring the State
Department to grant her application for citizenship, App. 1112, because the requirements she did not meet are not also
imposed upon illegitimate children of citizen-mothers, and
therefore violate the Equal Protection Clause.' Even if we

IPetitioner makes the equal protection claim on behalf of her father, not
on her own behalf JUSTICE BREYER finds that she has third-party standing to make the claim because "[s]he has a 'close' and relevant relationship"
with her father, and "there was 'some hindrance' to her father's asserting
his own rights." Post, at 473 (quoting from Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400,
411 (1991)). As an original matter, I would agree with JUSTICE O'CONNOR that this ground is inadequate, but I do not read our cases as demanding so significant an impairment of the rightholder's ability to sue as she
does. For example, in Craigv. Boren, 429 U. S. 190, 197 (1976), although
the rightholder who was one of the named plaintiffs had indeed lost his
ability to sue because he had turned 21, there was "no barrier whatever"
to assertion of the constitutional claim by other Oklahoma males between
18 and 20. Id., at 216 (Burger, C. J., dissenting). Certainly here, as in

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
SCALUA, J., concurring in judgment

were to agree that the difference in treatment between illegitimate children of citizen-fathers and citizen-mothers is
unconstitutional, we could not, consistent with the limited
judicial power in this area, remedy that constitutional infirmity by declaring petitioner to be a citizen or ordering the
State Department to approve her application for citizenship. "Once it has been determined that a person does not
qualify for citizenship, ... the district court has no discretion to ignore the defect and grant citizenship." INS v.
Pangilinan,486 U. S. 875, 884 (1988) (internal quotation
marks and citation omitted).
Judicial power over immigration and naturalization is
extremely limited. "Our cases 'have long recognized the
power to expel or exclude aliens as a fundamental sovereign
attribute exercised by the Government's political departments largely immune from judicial control."' Fiallo v.
Bell, 430 U. S. 787, 792 (1977) (quoting Shaughnessy v.
United States ex rel. Mezei, 345 U. S. 206, 210 (1953)). See
also Landon v. Plasencia, 459 U. S. 21, 32 (1982) ("[T]he
power to admit or exclude aliens is a sovereign prerogative"); Mathews v. Diaz, 426 U. S. 67, 79-80 (1976) ("In the
exercise of its broad power over naturalization and immigration, Congress regularly makes rules that would be unacceptable if applied to citizens"); Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408
U. S. 753, 769-770 (1972) ("[P]lenary congressional power to
make policies and rules for exclusion of aliens has long been
firmly established"); Galvan v. Press, 347 U. S. 522, 531
(1954) ("That the formulation of [policies pertaining to the
Craig,petitioner is the "least awkward challenger," id., at 197, since it is
her right to citizenship that is at stake. Our law on this subject is in need
of what may charitably be called clarification, but I would leave it for
another day. Since I accept petitioner's third-party standing, there is no
need for me to reach the Government's claim (which it asserts for the first
time in its brief on the merits in this Court) that petitioner cannot invoke
the Equal Protection Clause on her own behalf because she is not within
the jurisdiction of the United States. Brief for Respondent 11-12.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
SCALIA, J.,

concurring in judgment

entry of aliens and their right to remain here] is entrusted
exclusively to Congress has become about as firmly imbedded in the legislative and judicial tissues of our body politic
as any aspect of our government"). Because only Congress
has the power to set the requirements for acquisition of citizenship by persons not born within the territory of the
United States, federal courts cannot exercise that power
under the guise of their remedial authority. "Neither by application of the doctrine of estoppel, nor by invocation of equitable powers, nor by any other means does a court have
the power to confer citizenship in violation of [statutory] limitations." Pangilinan,supra, at 885. "An alien who seeks
political rights as a member of this Nation can rightfully obtain them only upon terms and conditions specified by Congress. Courts are without authority to sanction changes or
modifications." United States v. Ginsberg, 243 U. S. 472,
474 (1917) (emphasis added).
Petitioner argues, and JUSTICE BREYER'S dissent seems
to agree, see post, at 488-489, that because she meets the
requirements of § 1401(g), the Court may declare her a citizen "at birth" under that provision and ignore § 1409(a)
entirely, which allegedly unconstitutionally takes away that
citizenship. Brief for Petitioner 14-15. This argument
adopts a fanciful view of the statute, whereby § 1409(a) takes
away what § 1401(g) has unconditionally conferred-as
though § 1409(a) were some sort of a condition subsequent to
the conveyance of real estate in a will. If anything, of
course, it would be a condition precedent, since it says that
§ 1401(g) "shall apply as of the date of birth to a person born
out of wedlock if" the person meets the requirements there
set forth. 8 U. S. C. § 1409(a) (emphasis added). But a unitary statute is not to be picked apart in this fashion. To be
sure, § 1401(g), read in isolation, might refer to both married
and unmarried parents. We do not, however, read statutory
provisions in isolation, as if other provisions in the same Act
do not exist, see King v. St. Vincent's Hospital,502 U. S.215,

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
SCALA, J., concurring in judgment

221 (1991). Section 1401(g) does not confer citizenship upon
children born out of wedlock unless the requirements in
§ 1409 are satisfied.
It can be argued that in exempting an applicant from an
unconstitutional requirement (either part or all of § 1409(a))
a court is not rewriting the law, but simply ignoring that
portion of the law which is a nullity. See post, at 488-489
(BREYER, J., dissenting). That assumes, however, a judicial
power to sever the unconstitutional portion from the remainder, and to apply the remainder unencumbered. Such a
power exists in other cases-and is exercised on the basis of
the Court's assessment as to whether Congress would have
enacted the remainder of the law without the invalidated
provision. See New York v. United States, 505 U. S.144, 186
(1992). I know of no instance, however, in which this Court
has severed an unconstitutional restriction upon the grant of
immigration or citizenship. It is in my view incompatible
with the plenary power of Congress over those fields for
judges to speculate as to what Congress would have enacted
if it had not enacted what it did-whether it would, for
example, have preferred to extend the requirements of
§§ 1409(a)(3) and (4) to mothers instead of eliminating them
for fathers, or even to deny citizenship to illegitimate children entirely. ("[T]he Court has specifically recognized the
power of Congress not to grant a United States citizen the
right to transmit citizenship by descent." Rogers, 401 U. S.,
at 830.) Moreover, if the mere character of the naturalization power were not enough to render the severing of a limitation upon citizenship improper, the INA itself contains a
clear statement of congressional intent: "A person may only
be naturalized as a citizen of the United States in the manner
and under the conditions prescribed in this subchapter and
not otherwise." 8 U. S. C. § 1421(d) (emphasis added). JusTICE BREYER'S reliance upon the INA's general severability
clause, 66 Stat. 281, §406, is misplaced because the specific
governs the general, see Morales v. Trans World Airlines,

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment

Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 384-385 (1992). The question of severance ultimately turns on "whether the provisions are inseparable by virtue of inherent character," Carterv. Carter Coal
Co., 298 U. S. 238, 322 (1936), which must be gleaned from
the structure and nature of the Act.
Another obstacle to judicial deletion of the challenged requirements is the fact that when a statutory violation of
equal protection has occurred, it is not foreordained which
particular statutory provision is invalid. The constitutional
vice consists of unequal treatment, which may as logically
be attributed to the disparately generous provision (here,
supposedly, the provision governing citizenship of illegitimate children of citizen-mothers) as to the disparately parsimonious one (the provision governing citizenship of illegitimate children of citizen-fathers). "L-Wle have noted that a
court sustaining [an equal protection] claim faces 'two remedial alternatives: [It] may either declare [the statute] a nullity and order that its benefits not extend to the class that
the legislature intended to benefit, or it may extend the coverage of the statute to include those who are aggrieved by
the exclusion."' Heckler v. Mathews, 465 U. S. 728, 738
(1984), quoting Welsh v. United States, 398 U. S. 333, 361
(1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in result). Given the nature of
the law at issue here, and given the clear command of 8
U. S. C. § 1421(d) ("under the conditions prescribed in this
subchapter and not otherwise"), there is no doubt which of
those alternatives the Court must employ. It cannot confer
citizenship where Congress has not done so.
In any event, this is not like the ordinary equal protection
case, in which one class is subjected to a restriction from
which the other class is exempt. See, e.g., Craig v. Boren,
429 U. S. 190, 191-192 (1976) (men can be served alcoholic
beverages only if over 21 years of age, whereas women need
be only 18). Here each class is subjected to restrictions
from which the other is exempt. While illegitimate children
of citizen-fathers must meet the requirements of § 1409(a)

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
ScAL,

J., concurring in judgment

from which illegitimate children of citizen-mothers are exempt, illegitimate children of citizen-mothers must meet the
quite different requirements of § 1409(c), from which illegitimate children of citizen-fathers are exempt. 2 In this situation, eliminating the restrictions on fathers does not produce
a law that complies with the Equal Protection Clause (assuming it is initially in violation), but rather produces a law
that treats fathers more favorably than mothers. There is
no way a court can "fix" the law by merely disregarding one
provision or the other as unconstitutional. It would have to
disregard them both, either leaving no restrictions whatever
upon citizenship of illegitimate children or (what I think the
more proper course) denying naturalization of illegitimate
children entirely (since § 1401(g) was not meant to apply by
its unqualified terms to illegitimate children). Even outside
the particularly sensitive area of immigration and naturalization, I am aware of no case that has engaged in such radical
statutory surgery, and it certainly cannot be engaged in here.
In sum, this is not a case in which we have the power
to remedy the alleged equal protection violation by either
expanding or limiting the benefits conferred so as to deny or
grant them equally to all. "We are dealing here with an
exercise of the Nation's sovereign power to admit or exclude
foreigners in accordance with perceived national interests."
Fiallo, 430 U. S., at 795, n. 6. Federal judges may not
decide what those national interests are, and what requirements for citizenship best serve them.
Because petitioner is not a citizen under any Act of Congress, we cannot give her the declaratory judgment or affirmative relief she requests. I therefore concur in the
judgment.
2

Title 8 U. S. C. § 1409(c) provides that an illegitimate child born to a
citizen-mother shall be a citizen "if the mother had previously been physically present in the United States or one of its outlying possessions for a
continuous period of one year."

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
GINSBURG,

JUSTICE GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

with whom

JUSTICE SOUTER

and

JUSTICE BREYER join, dissenting.
As JUSTICE BREYER convincingly demonstrates, 8 U. S. C.

§ 1409 classifies unconstitutionally on the basis of gender in
determining the capacity of a parent to qualify a child for
citizenship. The section rests on familiar generalizations:
mothers, as a rule, are responsible for a child born out of
wedlock; fathers unmarried to the child's mother, ordinarily,
are not. The law at issue might have made custody or support the relevant criterion. Instead, it treats mothers one
way, fathers another, shaping Government policy to fit and
reinforce the stereotype or historic pattern.
Characteristic of sex-based classifications, the stereotypes
underlying this legislation may hold true for many, even
most, individuals. But in prior decisions the Court has rejected official actions that classify unnecessarily and overbroadly by gender when more accurate and impartial functional lines can be drawn. While the Court is divided on
Lorelyn Miller's standing to sue, a solid majority adheres to
that vital understanding.

As JUSTICE O'CONNOR's opinion

makes plain, distinctions based on gender trigger heightened
scrutiny and "[i]t is unlikely ...

that any gender classifica-

tions based on stereotypes can survive heightened scrutiny."
Ante, at 452 (opinion concurring in judgment); post, at 482488 (BREYER, J., dissenting).
On the surface, § 1409 treats females favorably. Indeed,
it might be seen as a benign preference, an affirmative action
of sorts. Compare Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan,
458 U. S. 718, 731, and n. 17 (1982), with id., at 740-744 (Powell, J., dissenting). Two Justices today apparently take this
view. JUSTICE STEVENS' opinion, in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins, portrays § 1409 as helpfully recognizing the dif-

ferent situations of unmarried mothers and fathers during
the prenatal period and at birth, and fairly equalizing the
"burdens" that each parent bears. See ante, at 433-434,
438. But pages of history place the provision in real-world

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

perspective. Section 1409 is one of the few provisions remaining in the United States Code that uses sex as a criterion in delineating citizens' rights. It is an innovation in
this respect: During most of our Nation's past, laws on the
transmission of citizenship from parent to child discriminated adversely against citizen mothers, not against citizen
fathers.
I
The first statute on the citizenship of children born abroad,
enacted in 1790, stated: "[T]he children of citizens of the
United States, that may be born beyond sea, or out of the
limits of the United States, shall be considered as natural
born citizens: Provided, That the right of citizenship shall
not descend to persons whose fathers have never been resident in the United States." Act of Mar. 26, 1790, ch. 3, 1
Stat. 104. Statutes passed in 1795 and 1802 similarly conditioned the citizenship of the child born abroad on the father's
at least one-time residence in the United States. Act of Jan.
29, 1795, §3, 1 Stat. 415; Act of Apr. 14, 1802, §4, 2 Stat. 155.
This father's residence requirement suggests that Congress
intended a child born abroad to gain citizenship only when
the father was a citizen. That, indeed, was the law of England at the time. See 2 J. Kent, Commentaries on American
Law *50-*51 (hereinafter Kent's Commentaries); 4 Geo. 2,
ch. 21 (1731). The statutory language Congress adopted,
however, was ambiguous. One could read the words "children of citizens" to mean that the child of a United States
citizen mother and a foreign father would qualify for citizenship if the father had at some point resided in the country.
See Binney, The Alienigenae of the United States, 2 Am. L.
Reg. 193, 203-205 (1854). Or, as Chancellor Kent observed,
the words might mean that both parents had to be United
States citizens for citizenship to pass. 2 Kent's Commentaries *53.
Under the 1802 legislation, children born abroad could not
become citizens unless their parents were citizens in 1802,

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

which meant that as the years passed few foreign-born persons could qualify. Daniel Webster, among others, proposed
remedial legislation. His bill would have granted citizenship to children born abroad to United States-born citizen
mothers as well as fathers. His effort was unsuccessful.
See Cong. Globe, 30th Cong., 1st Sess., 827 (1848); F.
Franklin, The Legislative History of Naturalization in the
United States 271-276 (reprint ed. 1971). Instead, in 1855,
Congress clarified that citizenship would pass to children
born abroad only when the father was a United States citizen. Act of Feb. 10, 1855, § 2, 10 Stat. 604. Codified as
§ 1993 of the Revised Statutes, the provision originating in
1855 read: "All children heretofore born or hereafter born
out of the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, whose
fathers were or may be at the time of their birth citizens
thereof, are declared to be citizens of the United States; but
the rights of citizenship shall not descend to children whose
fathers never resided in the United States." Rev. Stat.
§ 1993.

In these early statutes, Congress did not differentiate between children born abroad to married parents and those
born out of wedlock. Section 1993, as applied, allowed
transmission of citizenship to children born out of wedlock if
the father legitimated the child. See, e. g., 32 Op. Atty. Gen.
162, 164-165 (1920); see also Guyer v. Smith, 22 Md. 239
(1864) (foreign-born children who remain illegitimate do not
qualify for citizenship). In several reported instances, children legitimated by their fathers gained citizenship even
though the legitimation occurred, as it did in Lorelyn Miller's
case, after the child reached majority. See In re P, 4 I. &
N. Dec. 354 (C. 0. 1951); 7 C. Gordon, S. Mailman, &
S. Yale-Loehr, Immigration Law and Procedure § 93.04[2][d],
pp. 93-43 to 93-44 (1992) (hereinafter Gordon). But see 3
G. Hackworth, Digest of International Law 29 (1942) (noting
a case in which legitimation postmajority was deemed sufficient, but maintaining that "[n]ormally the legitimation must

take place during the minority of the child").

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

In the early part of this century, the State Department
permitted the transmission of citizenship from unwed mother
to child reasoning that, for the child born out of wedlock, the
mother "stands in the place of the father." House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, A Report Proposing
A Revision and Codification of the Nationality Laws of the
United States, Part One: Proposed Code with Explanatory
Comments, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 18 (Comm. Print 1939)
(hereinafter Proposed Code). Ultimately, however, the Attorney General rejected the Department's reasoning, finding
it incompatible with § 1993's exclusive reference to fathers.
See 39 Op. Atty. Gen. 397, 398 (1939).
Women's inability to transmit their United States citizenship to children born abroad was one among many genderbased distinctions drawn in our immigration and nationality
laws. The woman who married a foreign citizen risked losing her United States nationality. In early days, "marriage
with an alien, whether a friend or an enemy, produce[d] no
dissolution of the native allegiance of the wife." Shanks v.
Dupont, 3 Pet. 242, 246 (1830) (Story, J.). By the end of the
19th century, however, a few courts adopted the view.that
a woman's nationality followed her husband's, see, e. g.,
Pequignot v. Detroit, 16 F. 211, 216 (CC ED Mich. 1883),
particularly when the woman resided abroad in her husband's country, see, e. g., Ruckgaber v. Moore, 104 F. 947,
948-949 (CC ED NY 1900). See generally C. Bredbenner,
A Nationality of Her Own: Women, Marriage, and the Law
of Citizenship 58-59 (1998) (hereinafter Bredbenner); Sapiro,
Women, Citizenship, and Nationality: Immigration and Naturalization Policies in the United States, 13 Politics & Soc. 1,
4-10 (1984). State Department officials inclined towards
this view as well. See L. Gettys, The Law of Citizenship in
the United States 118 (1934). In 1907, Congress settled the
matter: It provided by statute that a female United States
citizen automatically lost her citizenship upon marriage to an
alien. Act of Mar. 2, 1907, § 3, 34 Stat. 1228. This Court
upheld the statute, noting that "[t]he identity of husband and

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
GiNSBURG,

J., dissenting

wife is an ancient principle of our jurisprudence." Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S.299, 311 (1915).
The statutory rule that women relinquished their United
States citizenship upon marriage to an alien encountered increasing opposition, fueled in large part by the women's suffrage movement and the enhanced importance of citizenship
to women as they obtained the right to vote. See Bredbenner 64, 68-81; Sapiro, supra, at 12-13. In response, Congress provided a measure of relief. Under the 1922 Cable
Act, marriage to an alien no longer stripped a woman of her
citizenship automatically. Act of Sept. 22, 1922 (Cable Act),
ch. 411, § 3, 42 Stat. 1022. But equal respect for a woman's
nationality remained only partially realized. A woman still
lost her United States citizenship if she married an alien ineligible for citizenship; she could not become a citizen by naturalization if her husband did not qualify for citizenship; she
was presumed to have renounced her citizenship if she lived
abroad in her husband's country for two years, or if she lived
abroad elsewhere for five years. Id., §§ 3, 5; see also Sapiro,
supra, at 11-12. A woman who became a naturalized citizen
was unable to transmit her citizenship to her children if her
noncitizen husband remained alive and they were not separated. See In re Citizenship Status of Minor Children,25
F. 2d 210 (NJ 1928) ("the status of the wife was dependent
upon that of her husband, and therefore the children acquired their citizenship from the same source as had been
theretofore existent under the common law"); see also Gettys, supra, at 56-57. No restrictions of like kind applied to
male United States citizens.
Instead, Congress treated wives and children of male
United States citizens or immigrants benevolently. The
1855 legislation automatically granted citizenship to women
who married United States citizens. Act of Feb. 10, 1855,
ch. 71, § 2, 10 Stat. 604; see also Kelly v. Owen, 7 Wall. 496,
498 (1869) (the 1855 Act "confers the privileges of citizenship
upon women married to citizens of the United States" with-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
GiNSBURG, J., dissenting

out further action); Bredbenner 15. Under an 1804 statute,
if a male alien died after completing the United States residence requirement but before actual naturalization, his
widow and children would be "considered as citizens." Act
of Mar. 26, 1804, §2, 2 Stat. 292, 293. That 1804 measure
granted no corresponding dispensation to the husband and
children of an alien woman. In addition, Congress provided
statutory exemptions to entry requirements for the wives
and children of men but not for the husbands and children of
women. See, e.g., Act of Mar. 3, 1903, § 37, 32 Stat. 1213,
1221 (wives and children entering the country to join permanent resident aliens and found to have contracted contagious
diseases during transit shall not be deported if the diseases
were easily curable or did not present a danger to others);
S. Rep. No. 1515, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., 415-417 (1950) (wives
exempt from literacy and quota requirements).
In 1934, Congress moved in a new direction. It terminated the discrimination against United States citizen mothers in regard to children born abroad. Specifically, Congress amended § 1993 to read:
"Any child hereafter born out of the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, whose father or mother or
both at the time of the birth of such child is a citizen of
the United States, is declared to be a citizen of the
United States; but the rights of citizenship shall not
descend to any such child unless the citizen father or
citizen mother, as the case may be, has resided in the
United States previous to the birth of such child." Act
of May 24, 1934, § 1, 48 Stat. 797.1
1

A 1921 bill contained a similar provision allowing United States citizen
women to transmit citizenship to their children born abroad. The bill
provided: "A child born at any time without the United States, either
parent being at the time of such birth a citizen of the United States, may,
if not a citizen under section 1993 of the Revised Statutes, derive United
States citizenship under this section." H. R. Rep. No. 15603, 66th Cong.,
3d Sess., §33(2), p. 26 (1921). This 1921 bill, a precursor to the Cable

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
GINSBURG, J.,

dissenting

Senate and House Reports on the Act stated that the change
was made "to establish complete equality between American
men and women in the matter of citizenship for themselves
and for their children." S. Rep. No. 865, 73d Cong., 2d
Sess., 1 (1934); accord, H. R. Rep. No. 131, 73d Cong., 1st
Sess., 2 (1933); see generally Orfield, The Citizenship Act of
1934, 2 U. Chi. L. Rev. 99, 100-106 (1935). Congress again
did not speak of children born out of wedlock, but the 1934
Act "was construed as authorizing transmission of American
citizenship by descent by an American citizen mother to a
child born abroad ... out of wedlock under the same condi-

tions as a child born in wedlock." 7 Gordon § 93.04[2][b], at
93-42; see also id., § 93.04[2][d][iii], at 93-46.
The 1934 Act's equal respect for the citizenship stature of
mothers and fathers of children born abroad did not remain
unmodified. Six years later, Congress passed the Nationality Act of 1940, which replaced the Revised Statutes' single
provision on citizenship of children born abroad with an
array of provisions that turned on whether the child was
born in an outlying possession of the United States, whether
one or both of the child's parents were United States citizens,
and whether the child was born in or out of wedlock. The
1940 Act preserved Congress' earlier recognition of parental
equality in regard to children born in wedlock, but established a different regime for children born out of wedlock,
one that disadvantaged United States citizen fathers and
their children.
Under the 1940 Act, if the mother of the child born abroad
out of wedlock held United States citizenship and previously
had resided in the country or in a United States possession,
the child gained the mother's nationality from birth, provided the child's paternity was not established by legitimaAct, passed the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization but
proceeded no further. See H. R. Rep. No. 1185, 66th Cong., 3d Sess.,
1 (1921).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
GiNSBURG,

J., dissenting

tion or a court order.2 But if the father and not the mother
held United States citizenship, then the child would qualify
for United States citizenship only upon legitimation or adjudication of paternity during the child's minority. Furthermore, the child generally had to live in the United States for
five years before the age of 21. The same residency requirement applied to children born abroad to married couples with
only one United States citizen parent, whether that parent
was the mother or the father. Nationality Act of 1940,
§§ 201, 205, 54 Stat. 1138-1140. 3
Subsequent legislation retained the gender lines drawn in
the 1940 Act. The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952
made only one significant change regarding the citizenship of
children born abroad out of wedlock. It removed the provision that a mother could pass on her nationality to her child
4
only if the paternity of the child had not been established.
2Nationality and citizenship are not entirely synonymous; one can be a

national of the United States and yet not a citizen. 8 U. S. C. § 1101(a)(22).
The distinction has little practical impact today, however, for the only remaining noncitizen nationals are residents of American Samoa and Swains
Island. See T. Aleinikoff, D. Martin, & H. Motomura, Immigration: Process and Policy 974-975, n. 2 (3d ed. 1995). The provision that a child born
abroad out of wedlock to a United States citizen mother gains her nationality has been interpreted to mean that the child gains her citizenship as
well; thus if the mother is not just a United States national but also a
United States citizen, the child is a United States citizen. See 7 Gordon
§ 93.04[2][b], at 93-42; id., § 93.0412][d][viii], at 93-49.
3The provision granting citizenship to children born abroad out of wedlock applied retroactively; the provision granting citizenship to children
born in wedlock did not. The 1934 Act, too, was nonretroactive. The net
result was that a child born abroad out of wedlock to a United States
citizen mother in 1933 or earlier had United States citizenship after the
1940 Act, but a child born in wedlock did not until 1994 when Congress
enacted legislation making the 1934 Act retroactive. Pub. L. 103-416,
Tit. I, § 101(a)(2), 108 Stat. 4306, codified at 8 U. S. C. § 1401(h).
4The 1952 Act also provided that periods of service in the Armed Forces
abroad could count toward satisfying the parental residency requirement
in regard to a child born after January 13,1941. Immigration and Nation-

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

Immigration and Nationality Act, §309, 66 Stat. 238-239.
In 1986, however, Congress added further gender-based differentials. The Legislature that year permitted substitution of a written acknowledgment under oath or adjudication
of paternity prior to age 18 in place of formal legitimation.
To that extent, Congress eased access to citizenship by a
child born abroad out of wedlock to a United States citizen
father. At the same time, however, Congress imposed on
such a child two further requirements: production of clear
and convincing evidence of paternity, also a written statement from the father promising support until the child
turned 18. The requirements for a child of a United States
citizen mother remained the same; such a child obtained the
mother's nationality if the mother had resided in the United
States or its territorial possessions for at least a year before
the child's birth. Act of Nov. 14, 1986, § 13, 100 Stat. 3657,
codified as amended at 8 U. S. C. § 1409. No substantive
change has been made since 1986 in the law governing citizenship of children born abroad out of wedlock.
II
The history of the treatment of children born abroad to
United States citizen parents counsels skeptical examination
of the Government's prime explanation for the gender line
drawn by § 1409-the close connection of mother to child, in
contrast to the distant or fleeting father-child link. Or, as
JUSTICE STEVENS puts it, a mother's presence at birth, identification on the birth certificate, and likely "initial custody"
of the child give her an "opportunity to develop a caring
relationship with the child," ante, at 444, which Congress
legitimately could assume a father lacks. For most of our
Nation's past, Congress demonstrated no high regard or respect for the mother-child affiliation. It bears emphasis,
too, that in 1934, when Congress allowed United States citiality Act of 1952, §§ 301(a)(7), 309(b), 66 Stat. 236, 238, codified as amended
at 8 U. S. C. §§ 1401(g), 1409(b).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
GiNSBUiRG, J., dissenting

zen mothers to transmit their citizenship to their foreignborn children, Congress simultaneously and for the first time
required that such children (unless both parents were citizens) fulfill a residence requirement: "[Tihe right of citizenship shall not descend unless the child comes to the United
States and resides therein for at least five years continuously
immediately previous to his eighteenth birthday." Act of
May 24, 1934, § 1, 48 Stat. 797. Commentary underscores
what the text conveys. Congress largely relied on a residence requirement, not the sex of the child's citizen parent,
to assure an abiding affiliation with the United States. See
Proposed Code 10-11, 14.
Even if one accepts at face value the Government's current
rationale, it is surely based on generalizations (stereotypes)
about the way women (or men) are. These generalizations
pervade the opinion of JUSTICE STEVENS, which constantly
relates and relies on what "typically," or "normally," or
"probably" happens "often." E. g., ante, at 436, 437, 442.
We have repeatedly cautioned, however, that when the
Government controls "gates to opportunity," it "may not exclude qualified individuals based on 'fixed notions concerning
the roles and abilities of males and females."' United
States v. Virginia,518 U. S. 515, 541 (1996) (quoting Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U. S., at 725); see also
Orr v. Orr, 440 U. S. 268, 283 (1979) ("Where, as here, the
State's ... purposes are as well served by a gender-neutral
classification as one that gender classifies and therefore carries with it the baggage of sexual stereotypes, the State cannot be permitted to classify on the basis of sex."). Only an
"'exceedingly persuasive justification," Kirchberg v. Feenstra, 450 U. S. 455, 461 (1981) (quoting Personnel Administrator of Mass. v. Feeney, 442 U. S. 256, 273 (1979)), one that
does "not rely on overbroad generalizations about the different talents, capacities, or preferences of males and females,"
United States v. Virginia,518 U. S., at 533, will support dif-

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

ferential treatment of men and women. See J E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T B., 511 U. S. 127, 152 (1994) (KENNEDY, J.,
concurring in judgment) (noting that prevailing case law "reveal[s] a strong presumption that gender classifications are
invalid").
One can demur to the Government's observation that more
United States citizen mothers of children born abroad out of
wedlock actually raise their children than do United States
citizen fathers of such children. As JUSTICE BREYER has
elucidated, this observation does not justify distinctions between male and female United States citizens who take responsibility, or avoid responsibility, for raising their children.
Nor does it justify reliance on gender distinctions when the
alleged purpose-assuring close ties to the United Statescan be achieved without reference to gender. As Judge
Wald commented in discussing an analogous claim when this
case was before the Court of Appeals,
"Congress is free to promote close family ties by ensuring that citizenship is conferred only on children who
have at least minimal contact with citizen parents during their early and formative years.... But this putative
interest provides absolutely no basis for requiring fathers, and only fathers, to formally declare parentage
and agree to provide financial support before a child
reaches age 18." Miller v. Christopher,96 F. 3d 1467,
1476 (CADC 1996) (opinion concurring in judgment).
In 1934, it was no doubt true that many female United
States citizens who gave birth abroad had married foreigners
and moved to their husbands' country, and that the children
of such marriages were brought up as natives of a foreign
land. And if a female United States citizen were married to
a United States citizen, her children born abroad could obtain United States citizenship through their father. Thus,
the historic restriction of citizenship to children born abroad

Cite as: 528 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYER, J., dissenting

of United States citizen fathers may not have affected many
women. But, in the words of one woman who testified in
favor of the 1934 Act (and later became the first woman to
sit as a federal district court judge), "[w]hether there are a
lot of people who suffer or whether there are a few who
suffer, it seems to us that the principle of equal application
of the law to men and women ought to receive recognition."
Hearings on H. R. 3673 and H. R. 77 before the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, 73d Cong., 1st
Sess., 36 (1933) (testimony of Burnita Shelton Matthews).
Congress recognized this equality principle in 1934, and is
positioned to restore that impartiality before the century is
out.
JUSTICE BREYER, with whom JUSTICE SOUTER
GINSBURG join, dissenting.

and Jus-

TICE

Since the founding of our Nation, American statutory law,
reflecting a long-established legal tradition, has provided
for the transmission of American citizenship from parent
to child-even when the child is born abroad. Today's case
focuses upon statutes that make those children, when born
out of wedlock, "citizens of the United States at birth."
8 U. S. C. §§ 1401 and 1409. The statutes, as applied where
only one parent is American, require the American parentwhether father or mother-to prove the child is his or hers
and to meet a residency requirement. The statutes go on
to require (1) that the American parent promise to provide
financial support for the child until the child is 18, and (2)
that the American parent (or a court) legitimate or formally
acknowledge the child before the child turns 18-if and only
if the American parent is the father,but not if the parent is
the mother.

What sense does it make to apply these latter two conditions only to fathers and not to mothers in today's worldwhere paternity can readily be proved and where women and
men both are likely to earn a living in the workplace? As

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

has observed, and as a majority of the
Court agrees, "[i]t is unlikely... that any gender classifications based on stereotypes can survive heightened scrutiny."
Ante, at 452. These two gender-based distinctions lack the
"'exceedingly persuasive"' support that the Constitution requires. United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515, 530 (1996).
Consequently, the statute that imposes them violates the
Fifth Amendment's "equal protection" guarantee. See Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U. S. 497, 500 (1954).
JUSTICE O'CONNOR

The family whose rights are at issue here consists of Charlie Miller, an American citizen, Luz Pefiero, a citizen of the
Philippines, and their daughter, Lorelyn. Lorelyn was born
out of wedlock in 1970 in the Philippines. The relevant citizenship statutes state that a child born out of wedlock shall
be a "citize[n] of the United States at birth," § 1401, if the
child is born to a father who "had the nationality of the
United States at the time of the person's birth," if the "blood
relationship between the person and the father is established
by clear and convincing evidence," if the father had been
physically present in the United States for five years, and:
"(3) the father (unless deceased) has agreed in writing
to provide financial support for the person until the person reaches the age of 18 years, and
"(4) while the person is under the age of 18 years"(A) the person is legitimated under the law of the
person's residence or domicile,
"(B) the father acknowledges paternity of the person
in writing under oath, or
"(C) the paternity of the person is established by adjudication of a competent court." 8 U. S. C. §§ 1409(a)
and 1401(g).
Charlie Miller did not meet the requirements set forth in
subsections (3) and (4) above on time. And the question be-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYE, J., dissenting

fore us is whether the Constitution forbids the application of
those requirements for the reason that the statute imposed
them only where the child's American parent is the child's
father, not the mother. In my view the Constitution does
forbid their application.
II
I agree with JUSTICE STEVENS' resolution of the Government's three threshold claims. First, the Government takes
issue with Lorelyn's argument that provisions (3) and (4) unconstitutionally infringe the rights of her father, Charlie, an
American citizen. Brief for Respondent 11. It adds that
Charlie, not Lorelyn, should assert those rights himself and
that Lorelyn lacks legal "standing" to do so. Id., at 11, and
n. 2. This Court has made clear, however, that a party can
"assert" the constitutional rights of another person, where
(1) that party has "suffered an 'injury in fact'"; (2) the party
and the other person have a "close relationship"; and (3)
"there was some hindrance" to the other person's "asserting" his "own rights." Campbell v. Louisiana,ante, at 397;
see also Powers v. Ohio, 499 U. S. 400,411 (1991). And these
three requirements are met here.
Lorelyn has suffered an "injury in fact." She has a
"close" and relevant relationship with the other person,
namely, her father. And there was "some hindrance" to her
father's asserting his own rights. Charlie began this lawsuit (originally filed in Texas) as a party, raising his own
equal protection claim. The Government originally moved
to dismiss the complaint, contending that Charlie "should be
dismissed from this suit because he lack[ed] standing." Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff's First Amended Complaint, or, in
the Alternative, to Transfer Venue 6. The District Court
agreed with the Government that Charlie lacked "standing,"
and he was dismissed from the suit. App. Ila. Lorelyn remained as the sole plaintiff, and for reasons of venue, see 28
U. S. C. § 1391(e)(1), the court then transferred the case to
the District of Columbia pursuant to § 1406(a). App. Ila.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

The conclusion that the Government "hindered" Charlie's
assertion of his own rights in this case is irresistible.
The Government points out that Charlie might have appealed the adverse Texas District Court ruling. Brief for
Respondent 11, n. 2. But appeals take time and money; the
transfer of venue left the plaintiffs uncertain about where to
appeal; the case was being heard with Lorelyn as plaintiff
in any event; and the resulting comparison of costs and benefits (viewed prospectively) likely would have discouraged
Charlie's pursuit of the alternative appeal route. The Government's successful dismissal motion thus had practical consequences that "hindered" Charlie at least as much as those
we have elsewhere said create "hindrances" sufficient to satisfy this portion of the "third-party standing" test. See,
e. g., Campbell, supra, at 398 (criminal defendant can assert
rights of racially excluded petit jurors because of "arduous"
process surrounding, and small benefits accruing to, juror effort to vindicate own rights); cf. Craig v. Boren, 429 U. S.
190, 193-194 (1976) ("decision ... to forgo consideration of
the constitutional merits ... to await" another party's identi-

cal claim would "foster repetitive and time-consuming litigation under the guise of caution and prudence").
Second, the Government, citing United States v. VerdugoUrquidez, 494 U. S.259 (1990), and Johnson v. Eisentrager,
339 U. S.763 (1950), argues that the Fifth Amendment does
not protect an alien, such as Lorelyn, living outside the
United States. Brief for Respondent 11-12. The rights to
be vindicated here, however, are Charlie's, not Lorelyn's.
And, in any event, those cases, as JUSTICE STEVENS points
out, are irrelevant, for the matter at issue here is whether
or not Lorelyn is a citizen. See Rogers v. Bellei, 401 U. S.
815 (1971) (considering on the merits a putative citizen's
claim that he was a citizen due to the operation of the Fifth
Amendment, even though he apparently was living outside
the United States at the time he filed suit).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

Third, the Government argues that Lorelyn cannot succeed because a federal court lacks the power to grant her
the relief she seeks, namely, a grant of citizenship. Brief for
Respondent 43-50. As I shall later explain in more detail,
however, this argument is beside the point, for, once the two
unconstitutional clauses are excised from the statute, that
statute operates automatically to confer citizenship upon
Lorelyn "at birth." 8 U. S. C. § 1401; see Part V, infra.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, joined by JUSTICE KENNEDY, says
that Lorelyn cannot assert her father's rights because "she
has not demonstrated a substantial hindrance to her father's
ability to assert his own rights." Ante, at 447. But the
obstacles that the Government placed in her father's path
substantially hindered his efforts to do so in practice. See
supra, at 473-474. Several of the cases mentioned in JUsTICE O'CONNOR'S opinion involved the denial of standing, but
none of those cases involved any "hindrance," and JUSTICE
O'CONNoR does not claim that they do. See FWIPBS, Inc.
v. Dallas, 493 U. S. 215, 234 (1990) (husband lacks standing
to assert wife's moot claim); Bender v. Williamsport Area
School Dist., 475 U. S. 534, 544-545 (1986) (school board
member lacks standing to defend on board's behalf a claim
that all other board members voted not to defend); Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of Bellwood, 441 U. S. 91, 112,
n. 25 (1979) (nonresidents lack standing to challenge local
real estate practices as discriminatory); Heald v. District of
Columbia, 259 U. S. 114, 123 (1922) (District resident lacks
standing to claim local tax unconstitutional as applied to
bonds held by nonresidents outside District). I have previously pointed to cases in which the Court has found thirdparty standing where the "hindrance" was of the same kind
and approximate degree as that present here. Supra, at
474. There are, of course, other cases finding standing that
arguably involve even greater hindrance. See, e. g., Hodel
v. Irving, 481 U. S. 704, 711-712 (1987); Carey v. Population
Services Int'l, 431 U. S. 678, 684, n. 4 (1977); Singleton v.

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

Wulff, 428 U. S. 106, 108 (1976); Craig,supra, at 192; Eisenstadt v. Baird,405 U. S. 438, 446 (1972); NAACP v. Alabama
ex rel. Patterson,357 U. S. 449, 459 (1958); Barrows v. Jackson, 346 U. S. 249, 254 (1953). But they set no inner limit.
Nor do I agree with JUSTICE O'CONNOR'S determination
that "rational scrutiny" must apply to Lorelyn's assertion of
her own rights. Lorelyn belongs to a class made up of children of citizen fathers, whom the law distinguishes from the
class of children of citizen mothers, solely on grounds of the
parent's gender. This Court, I assume, would use heightened scrutiny were it to review discriminatory laws based
upon ancestry, say, laws that denied voting rights or educational opportunity based upon the religion, or the racial
makeup, of a parent or grandparent. And, if that is so, I am
not certain that it makes a significant difference whether one
calls the rights at issue those of Lorelyn or of her father.
Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737 (1984), does not hold to the
contrary. Id., at 755 (black schoolchildren's parents who
claimed a "stigmatizing injury" due to Internal Revenue
Service decision to grant tax exempt status to racially discriminatory private schools had not been "personally denied
equal treatment," and thus had not been injured).
Regardless, like JUSTICE O'CONNOR, I "do not share," and

thus I believe a Court majority does not share, "JUSTICE
STEVENS' assessment that the provision withstands heightened scrutiny." Ante, at 451. I also agree with JUSTICE
O'CONNOR that "[iut is unlikely" that "gender classifications
based on stereotypes can survive heightened scrutiny," ante,
at 452, a view shared by at least five Members of this Court.
Indeed, for reasons to which I shall now turn, we must subject the provisions here at issue to "heightened scrutiny."
And those provisions cannot survive.
III
This case is about American citizenship and its transmission from an American parent to his child. The right of citi-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

zenship, as this Court has said, is "a most precious right."
Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez,372 U. S. 144, 159 (1963); see
also Fedorenko v. United States, 449 U. S. 490, 507 (1981)
(citizenship is a "priceless treasure" (internal quotation
marks omitted)); Luriav. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 22 (1913)
("Citizenship is membership in a political society"); Afroyim
v. Rusk, 387 U. S.253, 268 (1967) ("[This Nation's] citizenry
is the country and the country is its citizenry").
Further, the tie of parent to child is a special one, which
in other circumstances by itself has warranted special constitutional protection. See, e. g., Wisconsin v. Yoder, 406 U. S.
205 (1972); Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510 (1925);
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390 (1923); see also Skinner v.
Oklahoma ex rel. Williamson, 316 U. S.535 (1942).
Moreover, American statutory law has consistently recognized the rights of American parents to transmit their citizenship to their children. See Act of Mar. 26, 1790, § 1, 1
Stat. 103; Act of Jan. 29, 1795, § 3, 1 Stat. 415; Act of Apr. 14,
1802, § 4, 2 Stat. 155; Act of Feb. 10, 1855, § 1, 10 Stat. 604;
Rev. Stat. § 1993; Act of Mar. 2, 1907, §6, 34 Stat. 1229; Act
of May 24, 1934, § 1, 48 Stat. 797; Nationality Act of 1940,
§201(g), 54 Stat. 1139; Immigration and Nationality Act of
1952, §§ 301(a)(7), (b), 66 Stat. 235, 236, as amended, 8 U. S. C.
§ 1401; cf., e.g., 1 Oppenheim's International Law § 384 (R.
Jennings & A. Watts 9th ed. 1992) (noting that in many
States, children born abroad of nationals become nationals);
43 A. Berger, Encyclopedic Dictionary of Roman Law 389
(1953) (Roman citizenship was acquired principally by parentage); Sandifer, A Comparative Study of Laws Relating to
Nationality at Birth and to Loss of Nationality, 29 Am. J.
Int'l L. 248, 248-261, 278 (1935) (discussing citizenship laws
throughout the world and noting the "widespread extent of
the rule ofjus sanguinis");E. de Vattel, The Law of Nations
101-102 (J.Chitty transl. 1883) (1758).
Finally, the classification at issue is gender based, and we
have held that, under the equal protection principle, such

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

classifications may not rest on generalizations about the
different capacities of males and females when neutral categories would serve the legislature's end. United States v.
Virginia, 518 U. S., at 540-546.
These circumstances mean that courts should not diminish
the quality of review-that they should not apply specially
lenient standards-when they review these statutes. The
statutes focus upon two of the most serious of human relationships, that of parent to child and that of individual to the
State. They tie each to the other, transforming both while
strengthening the bonds of loyalty that connect family with
Nation. Yet because they confer the status of citizenship
"at birth," they do not involve the transfer of loyalties that
underlies the naturalization of aliens, where precedent sets
a more lenient standard of review. See Fiallo v. Bell, 430
U. S. 787 (1977).
To the contrary, the same standard of review must apply
when a married American couple travel abroad or temporarily work abroad and have a child as when a single American
parent has a child born abroad out of wedlock. If the standard that the law applies is specially lenient, then statutes
conferring citizenship upon these children could discriminate
virtually free of independent judicial review. And as a result, many such children, lacking citizenship, would be placed
outside the domain of basic constitutional protections.
Nothing in the Constitution requires so anomalous a result.
I recognize that, ever since the Civil War, the transmission
of American citizenship from parent to child, jus sanguinis,
has played a role secondary to that of the transmission of
citizenship by birthplace, jus soli. See Rogers v. Bellei, 401
U. S., at 828; see also Weedin v. Chin Bow, 274 U. S. 657,
669-671 (1927) (citing United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169
U. S. 649, 674 (1898), and id., at 714 (Fuller, C. J., dissenting)).
That lesser role reflects the fact that the Fourteenth Amendment's Citizenship Clause does not mention statutes that
might confer citizenship "at birth" to children of Americans

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYER, J., dissenting

born abroad. U. S. Const., Amdt. 14, § 1 (stating that "[a]ll
persons born or naturalized in the United States . . . are
citizens"). But that omission, though it may give Congress
the power to decide whether or not to extend citizenship to
children born outside the United States, see Rogers v. Bellei,
supra, at 835, does not justify more lenient "equal protection" review of statutes that embody a congressional decision
to do so.
Nothing in the language of the Citizenship Clause argues
for less close scrutiny of those laws conferring citizenship at
birth that Congress decides to enact. Nor have I found any
support for a lesser standard in either the history of the
Clause or its purpose. To the contrary, those who wrote the
Citizenship Clause hoped thereby to assure that courts
would not exclude newly freed slaves-born within the
United States-from the protections the Fourteenth Amendment provided, including "equal protection of the laws."
See, e. g., Afroyim v. Rusk, 387 U. S., at 262; id., at 283-284
(Harlan, J., dissenting); H. Flack, Adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment 83-97 (1908). They took special care, lest deprivation of citizenship undermine the Amendment's guarantee of "equal protection of the laws." Care is no less necessary when statutes, transferring citizenship between
American parent and child, make the child a citizen "at
birth." How then could the Fourteenth Amendment itself
provide support for a diminished standard of review?
Nor have I found any such support in the history of the
jus sanguinis statutes. That history shows a virtually unbroken tradition of transmitting American citizenship from
parent to child "at birth," under statutes that imposed certain residence requirements. Supra, at 477; see also Bellei,
supra, at 835. A single gap occurred when, for a brief period of time, the relevant statutes (perhaps inadvertently)
failed to confer citizenship upon what must have been a small
group of children born abroad between 1802 and 1855 whose
citizen fathers were also born between 1802 and 1855. See

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

Montana v. Kennedy, 366 U. S. 308, 311-312 (1961); Weedin,
supra, at 663-664; Wong Kim Ark, supra, at 673-674. But
even then, some courts, recognizing the importance of the
right, found common-law authority for the transmission to
those children of their parent's American citizenship. See
Ludlam v. Ludlam, 26 N. Y. 356, 362-372 (1863); see also
Lynch v. Clarke, 1 Sandf. Ch. 583, 659-663 (N. Y. 1844).
The history of these statutes does reveal considerable
discrimination against women, particularly from 1855 to
1934. See ante, at 463-465 (GINSBURG, J., dissenting). But
that discrimination then cannot justify this discrimination
now, when much discrimination that the law once tolerated,
including "de jure segregation and the total exclusion of
women from juries," is "now unconstitutional even though
[it] once coexisted with the Equal Protection Clause."
J E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T B., 511 U. S. 127, 143, n. 15
(1994).
Neither have I found case law that could justify use here
of a more lenient standard of review. JUSTICE STEVENS
points out that this Court has said it will apply a more lenient standard in matters of "'immigration and naturalization."' Ante, at 435, n. 11 (quoting Mathews v. Diaz, 426
U. S. 67, 82 (1976)). But that language arises in a case involving aliens. The Court did not say it intended that
phrase to include statutes that confer citizenship "at birth."
And Congress does not believe that this kind of citizenship
involves "naturalization." 8 U. S. C. § 1101(a)(23) ("The
term 'naturalization' means the conferring of nationality of a
state upon a person after birth, by any means whatsoever"
(emphasis added)). The Court to my knowledge has never
said, or held, or reasoned that statutes automatically conferring citizenship "at birth" upon the American child of American parents receive a more lenient standard of review.
The Court has applied a deferential standard of review in
cases involving aliens, not in cases in which only citizens'
rights were at issue. See Mathews, supra (rights of alien

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYEi, J., dissenting

residents); Kleindienst v. Mandel, 408 U. S. 753 (1972) (citizens' rights related to treatment of alien); Fiallov. Bell, 430
U. S. 787 (1977) (citizens' rights to obtain immigration preferences for relatives who are aliens). When the Court has
considered the latter kind of case, it has not lowered the
standard of review. See Bellei, 401 U. S., at 828-836 (evaluating due process challenge to citizenship statute under generally applicable standard).
In sum, the statutes that automatically transfer American
citizenship from parent to child "at birth" differ significantly
from those that confer citizenship on those who originally
owed loyalty to a different nation. To fail to recognize this
difference, and consequently to apply an unusually lenient
constitutional standard of review here, could deprive the
children of millions of Americans, married and unmarried,
working abroad, traveling, say, even temporarily to Canada
or Mexico, of the most basic kind of constitutional protection.
See U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census, Statistical
Abstract of the United States 53 (1997) (Table 54) (reporting
that, as of 1990, 1.86 million United States citizens were born
abroad or at sea to American parents); see also Hearing before the Subcommittee on International Operations of the
House Committee on Foreign Affairs, 102d Cong., 1st Sess.,
114 (1991) (testimony of Andrew P. Sundberg) ("According to
the most recent survey carried out by the State Department,
40,000 children are born abroad each year to a U. S. citizen
parent"). Thus, generally prevailing, not specially lenient,
standards of review must apply.
IV
If we apply undiluted equal protection standards, we must
hold the two statutory provisions at issue unconstitutional.
The statutes discriminate on the basis of gender, making it
significantly more difficult for American fathers than for
American mothers to transmit American citizenship to their
children born out of wedlock. If the citizen parent is a man,

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

the statute requires (1) a promise by the father to support
the child until the child is 18, and (2) before the child turns
18, legitimation, written acknowledgment by the father
under oath, or an adjudication of paternity. 8 U. S. C.
§1409(a). If the citizen parent is a woman, she need not do
either. § 1409(c).
Distinctions of this kind-based upon gender-are subject
to a "'strong presumption'" of constitutional invalidity.
Virginia, 518 U. S., at 532 (quoting J. E. B., supra, at 152
(KENNEDY, J., concurring in judgment)). The Equal Protection Clause permits them only if the Government meets the
"demanding" burden of showing an "'exceedingly persuasive"' justification for the distinction. Virginia, supra, at
533; see also J. E. B., supra, at 136; Mississippi Univ. for
Women v. Hogan, 458 U. S. 718, 724 (1982); Personnel Administrator of Mass. v. Feeney, 442 U. S. 256, 273 (1979);
Kirchberg v. Feenstra,450 U. S. 455, 461 (1981). That distinction must further important governmental objectives,
and the discriminatory means employed must be "substantially related" to the achievement of those objectives. Virginia, supra, at 533 (citing Mississippi Univ. for Women,
supra, at 724). This justification "must be genuine, not hypothesized or invented post hoc in response to litigation."
Virginia, 518 U. S., at 533. Further, "it must not rely on
overbroad generalizations about the different talents, capacities, or preferences of males and females." Ibid.; see also
J E. B., supra, at 139-140, and n. 11; Craig,429 U. S., at 201;
Califano v. Goldfarb, 430 U. S. 199, 223-224 (1977) (STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment); Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld,
420 U. S. 636, 643 (1975). The fact that the statutes "discriminat[e] against males rather than against females" is
beside the point. Mississippi Univ. for Women, 458 U. S.,
at 723.
The statutory distinctions here violate these standards.
They depend for their validity upon the generalization that
mothers are significantly more likely than fathers to care for

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYBR, J., dissenting

their children, or to develop caring relationships with their
children. But consider how the statutes work once one
abandons that generalization as the illegitimate basis for legislative line-drawing we have held it to be. Id., at 726, 730.
First, assume that the American citizen is also the Caretaker
Parent. The statute would then require a Male Caretaker
Parent to acknowledge his child prior to the child's 18th
birthday (or for the parent or child to obtain a court equivalent) and to provide financial support. It would not require
a Female Caretaker Parent to do either. The gender-based
distinction that would impose added burdens only upon
the Male Caretaker Parent would serve no purpose at all.
Second, assume that the American citizen is the NonCaretaker Parent. In that circumstance, the statute would
forgive a Female Non-Caretaker Parent from complying
with the requirements (for formal acknowledgment and written promises to provide financial support) that it would
impose upon a Male Non-Caretaker Parent. Again, the
gender-based distinction that would impose lesser burdens
only upon the Female Non-Caretaker Parent would serve
no purpose.
To illustrate the point, compare the family before usCharlie, Lorelyn, and Luz-with an imagined family-Carlos, a Philippine citizen, Lucy, his daughter, and Lenora,
Lucy's mother and an American citizen. Suppose that Lenora, Lucy's unmarried mother, returned to the United
States soon after Lucy's birth, leaving Carlos to raise his
daughter. Why, under those circumstances, should Lenora
not be required to fulfill the same statutory requirements
that here apply to Charlie? Alternatively, imagine that
Charlie had taken his daughter Lorelyn back to the United
States to raise. The statute would not make Lorelyn an
American from birth unless Charlie satisfied its two conditions. But had our imaginary family mother, Lenora, taken
her child Lucy back to the United States, the statute would
have automatically made her an American from birth with-

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYEP, J., dissenting

out anyone having satisfied the two conditions. The example suggests how arbitrary the statute's gender-based
distinction is once one abandons the generalization that
mothers, not fathers, will act as caretaker parents.
Let me now deal more specifically with the justifications
that JUSTICE STEVENS finds adequate. JUSTICE STEVENS
asserts that subsection (a)(4) serves two interests: first, "ensuring reliable proof of a biological relationship between the
potential citizen and its citizen parent," ante, at 436, and second, "encouraging" certain relationships or ties, namely, "the
development of a healthy relationship between the citizen
parent and the child while the child is a minor," ante, at 438,
as well as "the related interest in fostering ties between the
foreign-born child and the United States," ibid. I have no
doubt that these interests are important. But the relationship between the statutory requirements and those particular objectives is one of total misfit.
Subsection (a)(4) requires, for example, the American citizen father to "acknowledg[e]" paternity before the child
reaches 18 years of age, or for the child or parent to obtain
a court equivalent (legitimation or adjudication of paternity).
JUSTICE STEVENS suggests that this requirement "produces
the rough equivalent of the documentation," such as a birth
certificate memorialized in hospital records, "already available to evidence the blood relationship between the mother
and the child." Ante, at 436. But, even if I assume the
"equivalency" (only for argument's sake, since birth certificates do not invariably carry a mother's true name or omit
the father's), I still do not understand the need for the priorto-18 legitimation-or-acknowledgment requirement. When
the statute was written, one might have seen the requirement as offering some protection against false paternity
claims. But that added protection is unnecessary in light
of inexpensive DNA testing that will prove paternity with
certainty. See Shapiro, Reifler, and Psome, The DNA Paternity Test: Legislating the Future Paternity Action, 7 J.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYER, J., dissenting

Law & Health 1, 29 (1992-1993) (current testing methods can
determine probability of paternity to 99.999999% accuracy);
see also H. R. Rep. No. 98-527, p. 38 (1983).
Moreover, a different provision of the statute, subsection
(a)(1), already requires proof of paternity by "clear and convincing evidence." No one contests the validity of that provision, and I believe that biological differences between men
and women would justify its imposition where paternity is
at issue. In light of that provision, subsection (a)(4)'s
protection against false claims is not needed. Indeed, the
Government concedes that, in light of the "clear and convincing evidence" requirement, the "time limit for meeting
the legitimation-or-acknowledgement requirement of Section
309(a)(4) must.., reflect, at least in part, some other congressional concern." Brief for Respondent 27 (emphasis
added).
JUSTICE STEVENS says that this "other concern" is a concern for the establishment of relationships and ties, to the
father and to the United States, all before the child is 18.
Ante, at 438.

According to JUSTICE STEVENS, the way in

which the requirement serves this purpose is by making certain the father knows of the child's existence-in the same
way, it says, that a mother, by giving birth, automatically
knows that the child exists. Ibid.
The distance between this knowledge and the claimed objectives, however, is far too great to satisfy any legal requirement of tailoring or proportionality. And the assumption that this knowledge of birth could make a significant
gender-related difference rests upon a host of unproved
gender-related hypotheses. Simple knowledge of a child's
existence may, or may not, be followed by the kinds of relationships for which JUSTICE STEVENS hopes. A mother or
a father, knowing of a child's birth, may nonetheless fail to
care for the child or even to acknowledge the child. A father with strong ties to the child may, simply by lack of
knowledge, fail to comply with the statute's formal require-

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER,

J., dissenting

ments. A father with weak ties might readily comply.
Moreover, the statute does little to assure any tie for, as
JUSTICE STEVENS acknowledges, a child might obtain an
adjudication of paternity "absent any affirmative act by the
father, and perhaps even over his express objection." Ante,
at 434.
To make plausible the connection between the statute's
requirement and the asserted "relationship" goals, JUSTICE
STEVENS must find a factual scenario where a father's
knowledge-equivalent to the mother's knowledge that she
has given birth-could lead to the establishment of a more
meaningful parenting relationship or tie to America. He
therefore points to what one might term the "war baby"
problem-the problem created by American servicemen fathering children overseas and returning to America unaware
of the related pregnancy or birth. The statutory remedy
before us, however, is disproportionately broad even when
considered in relation to that problem. JUSTICE STEVENS
refers to 683,000 service personnel stationed in the Far East
in 1970 when Lorelyn was born. Ante, at 439. The statute
applies, however, to all Americans who live or travel abroad,
including the 3.2 million private citizens, and the 925,000
Federal Government employees, who live, or who are stationed, abroad-of whom today only 240,000 are active duty
military employees, many of whom are women. U. S. Dept.
of State, Private American Citizens Residing Abroad (Nov.
21, 1997); U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of the Census,
Americans Overseas in U. S. Censuses, Technical Paper 62,
p. 62 (Nov. 1993) (1990 census figures); U. S. Dept. of Defense,
Selected Manpower Statistics 23, 44 (DIOR/MO1-96 1996).
Nor does the statute seem to have been aimed at the "war
baby" problem, for the precursor to the provisions at issue
was first proposed in a 1938 report and was first adopted in
the Nationality Act of 1940, which was enacted before the
United States entered World War II. Nationality Laws of
the United States: Message from the President of the United

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYEBR, J., dissenting

States, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 1, pp. 17-18 (Comm. Print
submitted to House Comm. on Immigration and Naturalization, 1939); Nationality Act of 1940, §205, 54 Stat. 1139.
Nor is there need for the gender-based discrimination at
issue here, for, were Congress truly interested in' achieving
the goals JUSTICE STEVENS posits in the way JUSTICE STEVENS suggests, it could simply substitute a requirement of
knowledge of birth for the present subsection (a)(4); or it
could distinguish between Caretaker and Noncaretaker Parents, rather than between men and women. A statute that
does not do so, but instead relies upon gender-based distinctions, appears rational only, as I have said, supra, at 482-484,
if one accepts the legitimacy of gender-based generalizations
that, for example, would equate gender and caretakinggeneralizations of a kind that this Court has previously
found constitutionally impermissible. See, e. g., Virginia,
518 U. S., at 542, 546 (striking down men-only admissions
policy at Virginia Military Institute even assuming that
"most women would not choose VMI's adversative method");
J E. B., 511 U. S., at 139, n. 11 (invalidating gender-based
peremptory challenges "[e]ven if a measure of truth can be
found in some of the gender stereotypes used to justify"
them); Craig, 429 U. S., at 201 (invalidating Oklahoma law
that established different drinking ages for men and women,
although the evidence supporting the age differential was
"not trivial in a statistical sense"); Wiesenfeld, 420 U. S., at
645 (holding unconstitutional statutory classification giving
to widowed mothers benefits not available to widowed fathers even though "the notion that men are more likely than
women to be the primary supporters of their spouses and
children is not entirely without empirical support"). Although JUSTICE STEVENS cites Lehr v. Robertson, 463 U. S.
248 (1983), for support, ante, at 441, that case was decided
before the DNA advances described earlier.
For similar reasons, subsection (3) denies Charlie Miller
"equal protection" of the laws. That subsection requires an

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYEIR J., dissenting

American father to "agre[e] ...to provide financial support"

for the child until the child "reaches the age of 18," but does
not require the same of an American mother. I agree with
the Government that this provision has as one objective
helping to assure ties between father and child. Brief for
Respondent 26. But I do not see why the same need does
not exist with respect to a mother. And, where the American parent is the Non-Caretaker Parent, the need for such
assurances would seem the same in respect to either sex.
Where the American parent is the Caretaker Parent, there
would seem no need for the assurance regardless of gender.
Since either men or women may be caretakers, and since
either men or women may be "breadwinners," one could justify the gender distinction only on the ground that more
women are caretakers than men, and more men are "breadwinners" than women. This, again, is the kind of generalization that we have rejected as justifying a gender-based
distinction in other cases. Virginia, supra, at 540-546;
J E. B., supra, at 139, n. 11; Craig,supra,at 201; Wiesenfeld,
supra, at 645.
For these reasons, I can find no "exceedingly persuasive"
justification for the gender-based distinctions that the statute draws.
V
JUSTICE SCALA argues that, if the provisions at issue vio-

late the Constitution, we nonetheless are powerless to find a
remedy. But that is not so. The remedy is simply that of
striking from the statute the two subsections that offend the
Constitution's equal protection requirement, namely, subsections (a)(3) and (a)(4). With those subsections omitted, the
statute says that the daughter, Lorelyn, of one who, like
Charlie, has proved paternity by "clear and convincing evidence," is an American citizen, and has lived in the United
States for five years, is a "citize[n] of the United States at
birth." 8 U. S. C. §§ 1409(a) and 1401. Whatever limitations there may be upon the Court's powers to grant citizen-

Cite as: 523 U. S. 420 (1998)
BREYER, J., dissenting

ship, those limitations are not applicable here, for the Court
need not grant citizenship. The statute itself grants citizenship automatically, and "at birth." And this Court need only
declare that that is so. INS v. Pangitinan,486 U. S. 875
(1988), which JUSTICE SCAUA cites in support, is beside the
point, for the plaintiffs in that case, conceding that the statute at issue did not make them citizens, asked the courts to
confer citizenship as a remedy in equity. Cf. Bellei, 401
U. S., at 828-836 (assessing claim that statute conferred citizenship in the absence of a provision argued to be unconstitutional, without identifying any special remedial problems).
Of course, we can excise the two provisions only if Congress likely would prefer their excision, rather than imposing
similar requirements upon mothers. Catifano v. Westcott,
443 U. S. 76, 89-93 (1979); Welsh v. United States, 398 U. S.
333, 361 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in result). But, since
the provisions at issue seem designed in significant part to
address difficulties in proving paternity (along with providing encouragement for fathers to legitimate the child)
and, since DNA advances have overcome the paternity-proof
difficulties, I believe that Congress would have preferred
severance.
JUSTICE SCALIA is also wrong, I believe, when he says that
"the INA itself contains a clear statement of congressional
intent" not to sever, ante, at 457, for the Act in fact contains
the following explicit severability provision:
"If any particular provision of this Act, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall
not be affected thereby." §406, 66 Stat. 281; see note
following 8 U. S. C. § 1101, p. 38, "Separability."
The provision cited by JUSTICE SCAIA says:
"A person may be naturalized as a citizen of the
United States in the manner and under the conditions

MILLER v. ALBRIGHT
BREYER, J.,

dissenting

prescribed in this title and not otherwise."
Stat. 239, 8 U. S. C. § 1421(d).

§ 310(d), 66

As "naturalization" under this statute does not include the
conferral of citizenship at birth, the provision does not apply
here. See 8 U. S. C. § 1101(a)(23) ("The term 'naturalization'
means the conferring of nationality of a state upon a person
after birth" (emphasis added)).
JUSTICE SCALIA also says that the law, as excised, would
favor fathers over mothers. Ante, at 459. The law, however, would require both fathers and mothers to prove their
parentage; it would require that one or the other be an
American, it would impose residency requirements that, if
anything, would disfavor fathers. I cannot find the reverse
favoritism that JUSTICE SCALIA fears.

For these reasons, I would reverse the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.

