OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZ
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-1469. Argued January 13, 1998-Decided March 4, 1998
Based on a reliable confidential informant's statement that he had seen a
person he believed to be Alan Shelby, a dangerous escaped prisoner, at
respondent's home, and on a federal agent's subsequent observation of
a man resembling Shelby outside that home, the Government obtained
a "no-knock" warrant to enter and search the home. Having gathered
in the early morning hours to execute the warrant, officers announced
over a loud speaker system that they had a search warrant. Simultaneously, they broke a single window in respondents garage and pointed a
gun through the opening, hoping thereby to dissuade occupants from
rushing to the weapons stash the informant had told them was in the
garage. Awakened by the noise and fearful that his house was being
burglarized, respondent grabbed a pistol and fired it into the garage
ceiling. When the officers shouted "police," respondent surrendered
and was taken into custody. After he admitted that he had fired the
weapon, that he owned both that gun and another in the house, and that
he was a convicted felon, respondent was indicted on federal charges
of being a felon in possession of firearms. The District Court granted
his motion to suppress evidence regarding weapons possession, ruling
that the officers had violated both the Fourth Amendment and 18
U. S. C. §3109 because there were "insufficient exigent circumstances"
to justify their destruction of property in executing the warrant. The
Ninth Circuit affirmed.
Hel&
1. The Fourth Amendment does not hold officers to a higher standard
when a "no-knock" entry results in the destruction of property. It is
obvious from the holdings in Wilson v. Arkansas, 514 U.S. 927, 934,
936, and Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385, that such an entry's lawfulness does not depend on whether property is damaged in the course
of the entry. Under Richards, a no-knock entry is justified if police
have a 'reasonable suspicion" that knocking and announcing their presence before entering would "be dangerous or futile, or ... inhibit the
effective investigation of the crime." Id., at 394. Whether such a
reasonable suspicion exists does not depend on whether police must destroy property in order to enter. This is not to say that the Fourth
Amendment does not speak to the manner of executing a warrant.

UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZ
Syllabus
Such execution is governed by the general touchstone of reasonableness
that applies to all Fourth Amendment analysis. See Pennsylvaniav.
Mimms, 434 U. S. 106, 108-109. Excessive or unnecessary property
destruction during a search may violate the Amendment, even though
the entry itself is lawful and the fruits of the search not subject to
suppression. Applying these principles to the facts at hand demonstrates that no Fourth Amendment violation occurred. The police certainly had a "reasonable suspicion" that knocking and announcing their
presence might be dangerous to themselves or others, in that a reliable
informant had told them that Alan Shelby might be in respondent's
home, an officer had confirmed this possibility, and Shelby had a violent
past and possible access to a large supply of weapons and had vowed
that he "would not do federal time." Moreover, the manner in which
the entry was accomplished was clearly reasonable, in that the police
broke but a single window in the garage to discourage Shelby, or anyone
else, from rushing to the weapons that the informant had told them
were there. Pp. 70-72.
2. The officers executing the warrant did not violate § 8109, which
provides: "The officer may break open any... window... to execute
a search warrant, if, after notice of his authority and purpose, he is
refused admittance .

. ."

Contrary to respondent's contention, that

statute does not specify the only circumstances under which an officer
executing a warrant may damage property. By its terms §3109 prohibits nothing, but merely authorizes officers to damage property in
certain instances. Even accepting, arguendo, that it implicitly forbids
some of what it does not expressly permit, it is of no help to respondent.
In both Miller v. United States, 357 U. S. 301,313, and Sabbath v. United
States, 391 U. S. 585, 591, n. 8, this Court noted that § 3109's prior notice
requirement codified a common-law tradition. The Court now makes
clear that §3109 also codified the exceptions to the common-law requirement of notice before entry. Because that is the case, and because
the common law informs the Fourth Amendment, Wilson and Richards
serve as guideposts in construing the statute. In Wilson, the Court
concluded that the common-law announcement principle is an element
of the Fourth Amendment reasonableness inquiry, but noted that the
principle was never stated as an inflexible rule requiring announcement
under all circumstances. 514 U. S., at 934. In Richards, the Court
articulated the test used to determine whether exigent circumstances
justify a particular no-knock entry. 520 U. S., at 394. Thus, §3109 includes an exigent circumstances exception and that exception's applicability in a given instance is measured by the same standard articulated
in Richards. The police met that standard here. Pp. 72-74.
91 F. 3d 1297, reversed and remanded.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
REHNQUIST, C. J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

David C. Frederick argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney General Keeney, Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben, and J Douglas Wilson.
Michael R. Levine argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.*
CHiEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385, 394 (1997), we
held that so-called "no-knock" entries are justified when police officers have a "reasonable suspicion" that knocking and
announcing their presence before entering would "be dangerous or futile, or... inhibit the effective investigation of
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Americans for
Effective Law Enforcement, Inc., et al. by Richard M. Weintraub, Bernard J Farber,Fred E. Inbau, Wayne W. Schmidt, and James P. Manak;
and for the State of Ohio et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General
of Ohio, Jeffrey S. Sutton, State Solicitor, and Elise Porter,Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: William H. Pryor,Jr., of Alabama, Bruce M. Botelho of
Alaska, Winston Bryant of Arkansas, Daniel E. Lungren of California,
M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert Butterworth of Florida, Margery S.
Bronster of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, James E. Ryan of Illinois,
CarlaJ Stovall of Kansas, Richard P Ieyoub of Louisiana, J Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Frank J Kelley of Michigan, Jeremiah W. Nixon
of Missouri, Joseph P Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska,
FrankieSue Del Papaof Nevada, Dennis C. Vacco of New York, Michael
F. Easley of North Carolina, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, W. A
Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Jose Fuentes Agostini of Puerto Rico,
Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode Island, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina,
Mark Barnett of South Dakota, Jan Graham of Utah, William H. Sorrell
of Vermont, Richard Cullen of Virginia, and Christine 0. Gregoire of
Washington.
John Wesley Hall, Jr., and Lisa Kemler filed a brief for the National
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urging
affirmance.

UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZ

Opinion of the Court

the crime." In this case, we must decide whether the
Fourth Amendment holds officers to a higher standard than
this when a "no-knock" entry results in the destruction of
property. We hold that it does not.
Alan Shelby was a prisoner serving concurrent state and
federal sentences in the Oregon state prison system. On
November 1, 1994, the Tillamook County Sheriff's Office took
temporary custody of Shelby, expecting to transport him to
the Tillamook County Courthouse, where he was scheduled
to testify. On the way to the courthouse, Shelby slipped his
handcuffs, knocked over a deputy sheriff, and escaped from
custody.
It was not the first time Shelby had attempted escape. In
1991 he struck an officer, kicked out a jail door, assaulted a
woman, stole her vehicle, and used it to ram a police vehicle.
Another time he attempted escape by using a rope made
from torn bedsheets. He was reported to have made
threats to kill witnesses and police officers, to have tortured
people with a hammer, and to have said that he would "'not
do federal time."' App. to Pet. for Cert. 38a. It was also
thought that Shelby had had access to large supplies of
weapons.
Shortly after learning of Shelby's escape, the authorities
sent out a press release, seeking information that would lead
to his recapture. On November 3, a reliable confidential
informant told Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms
Agent George Kim that on the previous day he had seen a
person he believed to be Shelby at respondent Hernan Ramirez's home in Boring, Oregon. Kim and the informant then
drove to an area near respondent's home, from where Kim
observed a man working outside who resembled Shelby.
Based on this information, a Deputy United States Marshal sought and received a "no-knock" warrant granting permission to enter and search Ramirez's home. Around this
time, the confidential informant also told authorities that
respondent might have a stash of guns and drugs hidden in

Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

his garage. In the early morning of November 5, approximately 45 officers gathered to execute the warrant. The officers set up a portable loudspeaker system and began announcing that they had a search warrant. Simultaneously,
they broke a single window in the garage and pointed a gun
through the opening, hoping thereby to dissuade any of the
occupants from rushing to the weapons the officers believed
might be in the garage.
Respondent and his family were asleep inside the house at
the time this activity began. Awakened by the noise, respondent believed that they were being burglarized. He
ran to his utility closet, grabbed a pistol, and fired it into the
ceiling of his garage. The officers fired back and shouted
"police." At that point respondent realized that it was law
enforcement officers who were trying to enter his home. He
ran to the living room, threw his pistol away, and threw himself onto the floor. Shortly thereafter, he, his wife, and their
child left the house and were taken into police custody. Respondent waived his Mirandarights, and then admitted that
he had fired the weapon, that he owned both that gun and
another gun that was inside the house, and that he was a
convicted felon. Officers soon obtained another search warrant, which they used to return to the house and retrieve the
two guns. Shelby was not found.
Respondent was subsequently indicted for being a felon in
possession of firearms. 18 U. S. C. §922(g)(1). The District
Court granted his motion to suppress evidence regarding his
possession of the weapons, ruling that the police officers had
violated both the Fourth Amendment and 18 U. S. C. § 3109
because there were "insufficient exigent circumstances" to
justify the police officers' destruction of property in their
execution of the warrant. App. to Pet. for Cert. 34a.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. 91
F. 3d 1297 (1996). Applying Circuit precedent, that court
concluded that while a "mild exigency" is sufficient to justify
a no-knock entry that can be accomplished without the de-

UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZ
Opinion of the Court

struction of property, "'more specific inferences of exigency
are necessary"' when property is destroyed. Id., at 1301.
It held that this heightened standard had not been met on
the facts of this case. We granted certiorari and now reverse. 521 U. S. 1103 (1997).
In two recent cases we have considered whether and to
what extent "no-knock" entries implicate the protections of
the Fourth Amendment. In Wilson v. Arkansas, 514 U. S.
927 (1995), we reviewed the Arkansas Supreme Court's holding that the common-law requirement that police officers
knock and announce their presence before entering played
no role in Fourth Amendment analysis. We rejected that
conclusion, and held instead that "in some circumstances an
officer's unannounced entry into a home might be unreasonable under the Fourth Amendment." Id., at 934. We were
careful to note, however, that there was no rigid rule requiring announcement in all instances, and left "to the lower
courts the task of determining the circumstances under
which an unannounced entry is reasonable under the Fourth
Amendment." Id., at 934, 936.
In Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385 (1997),' the Wisconsin Supreme Court held that police officers executing
search warrants in felony drug investigations were never required to knock and announce their presence. We concluded
that this blanket rule was overly broad and held instead that
"[i]n order to justify a 'no-knock' entry, the police must have
a reasonable suspicion that knocking and announcing their
presence, under the particular circumstances, would be dangerous or futile, or that it would inhibit the effective investigation of the crime by, for example, allowing the destruction
of evidence." Id., at 394.
Neither of these cases explicitly addressed the question
whether the lawfulness of a no-knock entry depends on
whether property is damaged in the course of the entry. It
IIt should be noted that our opinion in Richards came down after the
Court of Appeals issued its opinion in this case.

Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

is obvious from their holdings, however, that it does not.
Under Richards, a no-knock entry is justified if police have
a "reasonable suspicion" that knocking and announcing
would be dangerous, futile, or destructive to the purposes
of the investigation. Whether such a "reasonable suspicion"
exists depends in no way on whether police must destroy
property in order to enter.
This is not to say that the Fourth Amendment speaks not
at all to the manner of executing a search warrant. The
general touchstone of reasonableness which governs Fourth
Amendment analysis, see Pennsylvaniav. Mimms, 434 U. S.
106, 108-109 (1977) (percuriam), governs the method of execution of the warrant. Excessive or unnecessary destruction of property in the course of a search may violate the
Fourth Amendment, even though the entry itself is lawful
and the fruits of the search are not subject to suppression.
Applying these principles to the facts at hand, we conclude
that no Fourth Amendment violation occurred. A reliable
confidential informant had notified the police that Alan
Shelby might be inside respondent's home, and an officer had
confirmed this possibility. Shelby was a prison escapee with
a violent past who reportedly had access to a large supply of
weapons. He had vowed that he would "'not do federal
time."' The police certainly had a "reasonable suspicion"
that knocking and announcing their presence might be dangerous to themselves or to others.2
As for the manner in which the entry was accomplished,
the police here broke a single window in respondent's garage.
They did so because they wished to discourage Shelby, or
any other occupant of the house, from rushing to the weapons that the informant had told them respondent might have
2 It is of no consequence that Shelby was not found. "[I]n determining
the lawfulness of entry and the existence of probable cause we may concern ourselves only with what the officers had reason to believe at the
time of their entry." Ker v. California,374 U. S. 23, 40-41, n. 12 (1963)
(opinion of Clark, J.) (emphasis in original).

UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZ
Opinion of the Court

kept there. Their conduct was clearly reasonable and we
3
conclude that there was no Fourth Amendment violation.
Respondent also argues, however, that suppression is appropriate because the officers executing the warrant violated
18 U. S. C. §3109. This statutory argument fares no better.
Section 3109 provides:
"The officer may break open any outer or inner door or
window of a house, or any part of a house, or anything
therein, to execute a search warrant, if, after notice of
his authority and purpose, he is refused admittance or
when necessary to liberate himself or a person aiding
him in the execution of the warrant."
Respondent contends that the statute specifies the only circumstances under which an officer may damage property in
executing a search warrant, and that it therefore forbids all
other property-damaging entries.
But by its terms § 3109 prohibits nothing. It merely authorizes officers to damage property in certain instances.
Even accepting, arguendo,that the statute implicitly forbids
some of what it does not expressly permit, it is of no help to
respondent. In Miller v. United States, 357 U. S. 301, 313
(1958), we noted that §3109's "requirement of prior notice
...

before forcing entry... codif[ied] a tradition embedded

in Anglo-American law." We repeated this point in Sabbath
v. United States, 391 U. S. 585, 591, n. 8 (1968) (referring to
§3109 as "codification" of the common law). In neither of
8After concluding that the Fourth Amendment had been violated in this
case, the Ninth Circuit further concluded that the guns should be excluded
from evidence. Because we conclude that there was no Fourth Amendment violation, we need not decide whether, for example, there was sufficient causal relationship between the breaking of the window and the discovery of the guns to warrant suppression of the evidence. Cf. Nix v.
Williams, 467 U. S. 431 (1984); Wong Sun v. United States, 371 U. S. 471
(1963).

Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)
Opinion of the Court

these cases, however, did we expressly hold that § 3109 also
codified the exceptions to the common-law requirement of
notice before entry. In Miller the Government made "no
claim... of the existence of circumstances excusing compliance" and the question was accordingly not before us. 357
U. S., at 309. In Sabbath the Government did make such a
claim, but because the record did "not reveal any substantial
basis for the failure of the agents ...to announce their authority" we did not decide the question. We did note, however, that "[e]xceptions to any possible constitutional rule
relating to announcement and entry have been recognized
... and there is little'reason why those limited exceptions
might not also apply to § 3109, since they existed at common
law, of which the statute is a codification." 391 U.S., at
591, n. 8.
In this case the question is squarely presented. We remove whatever doubt may remain on the subject and hold
that §3109 codifies the exceptions to the common-law announcement requirement. If §3109 codifies the common law
in this area, and the common law in turn informs the Fourth
Amendment, our decisions in Wilson and Richards serve as
guideposts in construing the statute. In Wilson v. Arkansas, 514 U. S. 927 (1995), we concluded that the common-law
principle of announcement is "an element of the reasonableness inquiry under the Fourth Amendment," but noted that
the principle "was never stated as an inflexible rule requiring announcement under all circumstances." Id., at 934. In
Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385 (1997), we articulated
the test used to determine whether exigent circumstances
justify a particular no-knock entry. Id., at 394. We therefore hold that § 3109 includes an exigent circumstances exception and that the exceptions applicability in a given instance is measured by the same standard we articulated in
Richards. The police met that standard here and § 3109 was
therefore not violated.

74

UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZ
Opinion of the Court

We accordingly reverse the judgment of the Court of
Appeals and remand this case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

