LEARY v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

thorize the recording of a deed, and the only acknowledgment was before the alteration. Therefore it was filed
without authority, was not entitled to registration, and,
as we have said, had no effect as against the petitioner.
Act of 1900, Tit. 1, § 15. Title 3, §§ 82, 95. 31 Stat. 327,'
503; 505. Code, Part III, § 15. Part V, §§ 82, 94. Alaska
Exploration Co. v. Northern Mining & Trading Co., 152
Fed. Rep. 145. 81 C. C. A. 363.
Judgment reversed.

LEARY, ADMINISTRATRIX OF LEARY, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT -OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 508.

Argued April 29, 30, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

In a suit brought by the United States to charge the defendant with a
trust in respect to funds-obtained by another through fraud against
the United States, held that the personal representative of a third
party claiming an interest in the funds under an agreement indemnifying him as bail of the party fraudulently procuring such funds was,
under the circumstances of this case, entitled to intervene.
A contract that certain specific assets in the hands of a trustee should
be held as security for a specific contingent claim is necessarily express, and is none the less so if conveyed by acts importing it than if
stated in words.
Where the intervenor has not legal title and is not claiming against an
admitted prior equity as a purchaser without notice, allegations of
ignorance of facts not admitted and not finally established are not
essential.
Bail no longer is the mundium, and distinctions between bail and
suretyship are nearly effaced. Quaere; whether a contract to indemnify bail which is legal by statute in New York where made is void
as against the public policy of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

224 U. S.

In this case, as the intervenor did not know of the suit or the position
taken by defendant, who was legally her trustee, she should not
be held guilty of laches.
184 Fed. Rep. 433, 107 C. C. A. 27, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. T. Coleman, with whom Mr. David McClure and
Mr. A. E. Strode were on the brief, for appellant:
An express contract to indemnify a person on his becoming bail for a prisoner charged with crime is not illegal
in violation of public policy. United States v. Ryder, 110
U. S. 729, distinguished. That case only holds that where
a recognizance in a criminal case is forfeited and paid by
the bail, there is no implied contract on the part of the
criminal to refund the money to the bail; but it also holds
that an express contract to indemnify the bail in such
case may be sustained.
- In the bill of intervention in this case an express contract
was averred. See Simpson v. Robert, 35 Georgia, 183;
Rev. Stat., § 1014; United States v. Rundlett, 2 Curtis, 44;
United States v. Ewing, 140 U. S. 142; United States v.
Horton, Fed. Cas. No. 15,393; United States v. Evans, 2
Fed. Rep. 147; United States v. Case, 8 Blatchf. 250.
In the State of New York, where the contract between
Leary and Green was made, a contract to indemnify a
bail is not contrary to public policy. Maloney v. Nelson,
144 N. Y. 189; S. C., 158 N. Y. 355.
The public policy of a State, with respect to contracts
made within it and sought to be enforced therein, is
obligatory upon the Federal courts whether acting in
equity or at law. Missouri &c. Trust Co. v. Krumseig,
172 U. S. 351.
Indeed, there is no national public policy. in cases like
the one under consideration. Congress has adopted the
statutes, and therefore the policy, of the several States in
reference to bailing persons charged with crime, and has

LEARY v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

assimilated all proceedings in such cases to the usual proceeding in the State in which the person is let to bail.
For one accused of crime to solicit bail is not immoral.
For an accused person to offer indemnity to another to
become. his bail can hardly be illegal. If a stranger in a
strange land could not offer such indemnity, he would, in
most cases, have no alternative but to submit to deprivation of his liberty without trial.
Mr. Marion Erwin, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the brief,
for the United States:
The petition is without jurisdictional merit, and the
appeal is for delay only.
The property in controversy equitably belonged to the
United States, from a time antecedent to when it is
claimed that Leary acquired the rights in the property
relied upon in the petition; the petitioner failed to plead
that such rights had been acquired by a bona fide purchaser.
It appears from the averments of the intervention, that
at the time of the alleged agreement of January 20, 1902,
relied upon by the petitioner to create an equitable lien
in the stocks in controversy, the stocks were and for months
had been held by and in the name of Kellogg for the sole
benefit of Greene, and that there was no delivery or change
of possession, and it was not provided in the agreement
that Leary should ever be given possession, but only that
Kellogg should, in the event of Leaxy's being held liable
on the bond, apply the stocks to the payment of Leary's
debt, and with the right reserved in Greene to withdraw
said securities from Kellogg's possession and substitute
others in their place. The facts pleaded do not create a
..legal or equitable lien on the stock in favor of Leary or
constitute an assignment of the fund even in equity.
Christmas v. Russell, 14 Wall. 70; Trist v. Child, 21 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

224 U. S.

447; Casey v. Cavaroe, 96 U. S. 467; Third Nat. Bk. v.
Insurance Co., 193 U. S. 581; Williams v. Ingersoll, 89
N. Y. 508; Thomas v. Railway, 139 N. Y. 163.
A refusal to grant leave to intervene is not ordinarily
considered as finally adjudicating the rights of the parties
on the merits. The petitioner may come back with a new
petition or ancillary bill, curing defects of pleading and
asserting rights not substantially asserted in the former
petition.
This case does not fall within the exception to the rule
where a third party asserts some right which will be lost
in the event that he is not allowed to intervene before the
fund is dissipated. Credits Commutation Co. v. United
States, 171 U. S. 311.
Petitioner appealed from the order made on the petition as first presented, without attempting to amend or
cure the defects, and by so doing waived all right to
amend and made the adjudication of her rights in the
subject-matter of the petition final. The Three Friends,
166 U. S. 1.
The request to amend here comes too late. Nat. Bank
v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 567.
This court is without jurisdiction to allow the amendments, or to entertain an appeal, for the mere purpose of
allowing amendments not offered in the trial court, where
neither the pleadings nor evidence in the trial court states
a case.
Failure to aver bona fide purchase is fatal. Smith v.
Gale, 144 U. S. 519; Coffey v. Greenfield, 62 California,
602; 11 Ency. P1. & Practice, 506; Minot v. Mastin, 37
C. C. A. 238, 95 Fed. Rep. 839.
An intervenor must set out his demand as clearly and
explicitly as a plaintiff. Clapp v. Phelps, 19 La. Ann. 461;
Davis v. Sullivan, 33 N. J. Eq. 569; Empire Dist. Co. v.
McNulta, 77 Fed. Rep. 703; Buel v. Farmers' L. & T. Co.,
95 Fed. Rep. 839-842.

LEARY v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

It is not enough to say that Leary's claim is superior
to the Government's claim, for that is a mere conclusion
to be drawn or not drawn from the facts well pleaded.
Gould v. R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 526.
The failure of an intervenor to make proper averments
excusing gross laches apparent on the face of an intervention, as in the case at bar, is fatal. Lansdale v. Smith,
106 U. S. 391; Smith v. Gale, 144 U. S. 509; O'Brien v.
Wheelock, 184 U. S. 450; Buel v. F. L. & T. Co., 44 C.
C. A. 277; Trust Co. v. Toledo &c., Ry., 82 Fed. Rep.
642.
The contract as one of indemnity for bail was against
public policy.
Uncertain and ambiguous averments in pleadings must
be construed most strongly against the pleader. The alleged contract of January 20, 1902, must be taken as
asserting only an implied contract of a principal to indemnify bail in a criminal case. If so, the suit is fatally defective. Ryder v. United States, 110 U. S. 729, 737;
United States v. Simmons, 47 Fed. Rep. 577; Herman v.
Jeunchner, 16 Q. B. Div. 561; 3 A. & E. Ency. Law, p. 684;
16 A. & E. Ency. Law, p. 172.
Whatever may be the public policy of particular States
as to the administration of the criminal laws, the public
policy of the United States as declared by the Federal
courts must control in the case at bar.
Prior to the enactment of the "Cash Deposit Law," the
public policy of New York was held to be against such
indemnification of bail by the principal in a criminal case,
but not against indemnification by third parties. People v.
-Ingersoll, 14 Abb. Pr. (N. S.) 23, but see New York Code
Crim. Proc., § 586.
This legislation changed the public policy of the State,
so that a contract of a principal to indemnify bail is no
longer against the public policy of the State. Maloney v.
Nelson, 158 N. Y. 355.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

224 U. S.

While it is generally true that the public policy of a
State with respect to contracts made within the State and
sought to be enforced therein is obligatory on the Federal
courts, whether acting in equity or at law, these views are
not applicable to cases arising out of interstate commerce,
where the policy to be enforced is Federal. Missouri
&c. Co. v. Kruning, 172 U. S. 351; United States v. TransMissouri Asso., 166 U. S. 290.
The provisions of § 33 of the Judiciary Act, § 1014,
Rev. Stat., relate to bail as known at common law.
This court goes to the common law for definitions of
common-law words, especially in matters of criminal procedure, and criminal procedure in the Federal courts is
controlled by the common law. United States v. Reid, 12
How. 366; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 301; Shaw v.
Merchants' N. Bank, 101 U. S. 557; Brown v. Barry, 3 Dall.
365; The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440; Minot v. Mechanics'
Bank, 1 Pet. 46.
In the construction of the laws of Congress the rules of
the common law furnish the true guide. Rice v. Minn. R.
R. Co., 1 Black, 358; United States v. Freeman, 3 How. 556;
United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55; Harringtonv. United
States, 11 Wall. 356; Ryany. Carter,93 U. S. 78; Reiche v.
Smythe, 13 Wall. 162.
Among the statutes in pari materia with § 1014 are
§§ 1018, 1019, Rev. Stat., relating to the right of bail to
arrest the principal and the surrender of persons charged
with crime by their "bail" and the entry of exonatur
upon the recognizance, etc. United States v. Burr, Fed.
Cas., No. 14,694.
No law of a State made since 1789 can affect the mode
of proceeding or the rules of evidence in criminal cases.
United States v. Reid, 12 How. 366; Logan v. United
States, 144 U. S. 301.
The law of the State allowing the substitution of a
different species of security in lieu of bail at the option of

LEARY v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant has no legal effect on Federal cases. United
States v. Ryder, 110 U. S. 729.
A change in the public policy of the State of New York
as a result of a legislative enactment, which authorizes
the principal to contract to indemnify his surety in criminal cases, and destroys the effective safeguards provided
by the interested watchfulness of common bail, is in contravention of the public policy of the United States, and
the latter must prevail.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for leave to intervene in a suit brought
by the United States to charge the defendant Kellogg
with a trust in respect of funds alleged to have been
received by him from Greene and to have been obtained
from the plaintiff by Greene through his participation in
the well known Carter frauds. The funds specially referred to were certain shares of railroad stock standing in
Kellogg's name but held in trust for Greene. The nature
of the alleged frauds can be gathered from United States
v. Carter, 217 U. S.286. See Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S.
249. The bill of intervention alleges the indictment of
Greene and that the plaintiff's deceased became surety
upon Greene's bail bond "upon the understanding and
condition that the securities held in trust or on deposit"
by Kellogg from Greene, being the above mentioned
railroad stock, should remain in Kellogg's hands as
security and indemnity to Leary for signing, the bond.
It goes on to allege Greene's failure to appear, a forfeiture
of the bond, a suit upon it brought September 10, 1903,
and a judgment for the United States against the intervenor on January 6, 1908. Finally the bill sets forth that
the United States not only has got an injunction pendente
lite forbidding Kellogg to deliver the fund to the intervenor to be used in partial liquidation of the judgment
against her but is pressing the collection of the judgment;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

and that the United States has no equity unless subject
to that which the intervenor claims.
This suit was begun on December. 19, 1903. The evidence had been taken and it was ready for final hearing
when the petition for leave to intervene was filed, April 18,
1908. But the action on the bond seems to have been
contested, and no judgment was entered until January 6,
1908, as we have said. The Circuit Court intimated an
opinion that the bill of intervention was defective for
want of an allegation that Leary, at the time of his agreement, did not know the facts alleged in the principal bill
to raise a trust for the Government, and also that, so far
as appears, it might be brought upon a supposed implied
contract, whereas no such undertaking of indemnity would
be implied by the law, citing United States v. Ryder,
110 U. S. 729. But observing that the petition might be
amended in these respects, it held that amendment would
be unavailing, as the contract was against public policy and
void. 163 Fed. Rep. 442. The Circuit Court of Appeals,
without deciding upon this last point, affirmed the decree
on the above mentioned ground that Leary's knowledge
was not negatived, and also on that of laches, apparent
and unexplained. 184 Fed. Rep. 433. 107 C. C. A. 27.
The result is that the petitioner is denied her
chance
to be heard for want of amendments which the court
that might hav6 allowed them told her that it was no use
to make as it was going to decide against her whatever she
did. Even if the court would have allowed them, which is.
a speculation, it is holding a party to very technical rules
to say that while one case was being dealt with below, he
ought to have contemplated having to meet a different
one above. But we need not consider that matter, as
we are of opinion that the bill, without amendment,
showed a sufficient right to intervene.
We lay on one side the suggestion that the intervention
goes only upon an implied contract in its proper sense of

LEARY v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an obligation raised by the law irrespective of any real
promise. That would seem to us a perverted interpretation of the words 'upon the understanding and condition'
even if the contract were only a general one to indemnify,
but a contract that certain specific stock in the hands of
a trustee should be held as security for a specific contingent claim could not exist unless it was express. It would
be none the less express if it was conveyed by acts importing it than if it was stated in words. The point that
Leary's knowledge ought to have been denied impresses
us hardly more. The plaintiff has not the legal title
and is not claiming against an admitted prior equity as
a purchaser without notice. Her position is that she
does not know whether the United States has any equity
or not, but that whatever rights the United States may
have are inferior to hers. She is not called on to allege
Leary's ignorance of facts that she does not admit and
that are not yet finally established. We are of opinion
that any one reading the bill in the same way that he
would read an untechnical document would have no
doubt that the plaintiff meant to put her case as we have
taken it.
The only matters that seem to us to need argument are
the questions of public policy and laches. As to the
former the ground for declaring the contract invalid
rests rather on tradition than on substantial realities of
the present day. It is said that the bail contemplated
by the Revised Statutes (§ 1014) is common-law bail and
that nothing should be done to diminish the interest of the
bail in producing the body of his principal. But bail no
longer is the mundium, although a trace of the old relation
remains in the right to arrest. Rev. Stat., § 1018. The
distinction between bail and suretyship is pretty nearly
forgotten. The interest to produce the body of the principal in court is impersonal and wholly pecuniary. If,
as in this case, the bond was for $40,000, that sum was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

measure of the interest on anybody's part, and it did not
matter to the Government what person ultimately felt
the loss so long as it had the obligation it was content to
take. The law of New York recognizes the validity of
contracts like the one alleged, and without considering
whether the law of New York controls we are content to
say merely that the New York decisions strike us as
founded in good sense. Maloney v. Nelson, 144 N. Y.
182, 189. S. C., 158 N. Y. 351, 355.
As to laches, there is no legal presumption that the
petitioner knew of this suit and still less that she knew
the position taken by Kellogg. He set up that the stock
was taken as indemnity to himself for his promise to
indemnify Leary, &c., and said nothing about the petitioner's claim. If that claim is well founded and she knew
of this suit, it was not laches in her to assume that Kellogg
would do his duty as her trustee. She might be bound
by a decree against him, but before decree on discovering
his conduct she fairly may ask a chance to protect herself.
Moreover as she disputed liability on the bond she had
an additional reason for not moving until the case against
her had gone to judgment. See Anonymous, 11 Mod. 2.
On the whole matter it seems to us that she was dealt
with too technically. She presents a case which unless
read with an adverse mind is a good one on its face, and
whatever misgivings we may entertain, we are of opinion
that she ought to be allowed to try to prove it. In the
circumstances it seems to us that the leave to intervene
may be granted subject to the condition that the evidence already in shall be taken to be evidence against
her subject to her right to recall and cross-examine such
witnesses for the Government as she may be advised.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

