OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

BRINKMEIER v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 206. Submitted March 11, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
The Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196, did
not embrace all cars on the lines of interstate carriers, but only those
engaged in interstate commerce. It did not, until amended by the
act of March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, embrace all cars used on
railroads engaged in interstate commerce.
A declaration for injuries sustained prior to the amendment of March 2,
1903, which did not allege that the car involved was engaged in interstate commerce, was properly held defective.
The rule that decisions of the state court on questions of pleading and
practice under the laws of a State are not reviewable by this court
held to include the denial, on the ground that the period of limitation
had expired, of an application made after trial to amend the declaration, so as to state a cause of action. Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co.
v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408.
Although the petition may declare under a Federal statute, if it states
no cause of action thereunder but at most a right of recovery at
common law, rulings on the sufficiency of evidence do not involve
Federal questions.
81 Kansas, 101, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction
Appliance Acts, are stated in the opinion.

of the Safety

Mr. C. V. Ferguson, with whom Mr. Kos Harris and
Mr. V. Harriswere on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Bailie P.

Waggener, Mr. Charles E.

Benton and

Mr. David Smyth for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action to recover for personal injuries

BRINKMEIER v. MO. PAC. RY. CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sustained by a'brakeman while coupling two freight cars
on a side track of the defendant railway company at
Hutchinson, Kansas. The defendant prevailed in the
state courts, 81 Kansas, 101, and the plaintiff brings the
case here. The injury occurred November 12, 1900, and
the action was begun March 15, 1901 ....
The question first presented for decision is, whether
the petition stated a cause of action under the original
Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531,
c. 196, which made it unlawful for any common carrier
engaged in interstate commerce by railroad "to. haul
or permit to be hauled or used on its line any car used
in moving interstate traffic not equipped with couplers
coupling automatically by impact," etc. The petition, if
liberally construed, charged that defendant was a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce by railroad;
that the cars in question were not equipped with couplers
of the prescribed type, and that the plaintiff's injuries
proximately resulted from the absence of such couplers;
but there was no allegation that either of the cars was
then or at any time used in moving interstate traffic.
The Supreme Court of the State held that in the absence
of such an allegation the petition did not state a cause of
action under the original act. We think that ruling was
right. The terms of that act were such that its application
depended, first, upon the carrier being engaged in interstate commerce by railroad, and, second, upon the use
of the car in moving interstate traffic. It did not embrace
all cars used on the line of such a carrier, but only such as
were used in interstate commerce. Southern Railway Co.
v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 25. The act was amended
March 2, 1903, 32 Stat. 943, c. 976, so as to include
all cars "used on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce," but the amendment came too late to be of any
avail to the plaintiff.
In 1908, after the case had been twice tried without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

decisive result, the plaintiff sought to amend his petition
by charging that the cars were used in moving interstate
traffic, but the application was denied, the period of limitation having expired in the meantime. Error is assigned upon this ruling; but as it involved only a question
of pleading and practice under the laws of the State, it
is not subject to review by us. Texas & New Orleans R. R.
Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408, 416.
It also was held that the evidence produced upon the
third trial was not sufficient to sustain a recovery under
the petition, and error is assigned upon this. As the
petition did not state a cause Of action under the Safety
Appliance Act, but at most a right of recovery at common
law, the ruling upon the sufficiency of the evidence did
not involve a Federal question, and so is not open to reexamination in this court.
Finding no error in the record in respect of any Federal
right, the judgment must be
Affirmed.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF INDIANA v. STATE
OF MISSOURI ON THE INFORMATION OF
HADLEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL, SUCCEEDED
BY MAJOR.
REPUBLIC OIL COMPANY v. SAME
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Nos. 47, 48.

Argued November 8, 9, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.

It is. essential to the validity of a judgment that the court rendering
it have jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the parties; but it
is for the highest court of a State to determine its own jurisdiction
and that of the local tribunals.
Where the constitution.of a State gives to its highest court the power

