OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

STATE OF WASHINGTON EX REL. OREGON
RAILROAD AND NAVIGATION COMPANY v.
FAIRCHILD ET AL., STATE RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 118.

Argued December 18, 1911.-Decided April 29, 1912.

An order of a railroad commission requiring a railroad company to
expend money and use its property in a specified manner is not a
mere administrative order, but is a taking of property; to be valid
there must be more than mere notice and opportunity to be heard;
the order itself must be justified by public necessity and not unreasonable or arbitrary.
The hearing which must precede an order taking property must not
be a mere form, but one which gives the owner the right to secure and
present material evidence; but a state statute which gives the privilege of introducing such evidence, affords compulsory process, and
gives the right of cross-examination, does not deny due process by
not affording sufficient opportunity to be heard.
The hearing is sufficient if the person whose property is to be taken
is put on notice as to the order to be made, and given opportunity to
show that it is unjust or unreasonable.
An opportunity given to test, by review in the courts, the lawfulness of
an order made by a commission does not deny due process because
on such review new evidence (other than newly discovered or necessary on account of surprise or mistake) is not allowed, and because
the court must act on the evidence already taken, if the court is not
bound by the findings, and the party affected had the right on the
original hearing to introduce evidence as to all material points.
Where the party' whose property has been taken has not been deprived
of a right to be heard, the question is whether as a matter of law the
facts proved a public necessity justifying the taking.
A State, acting through an administrative body, may require railroad
companies to make track connections, Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, but such body cannot compel a company to

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

build branch lines, connect roads lying at a distance from each
other, or make connections at every point regardless of necessity;
each case depends on the special circumstances involved.
In a proceeding brought to compel a carrier to furnish facilities not
included in its absolute duties, the question of expense is of controlling importance.
In this case the record does not disclose any public necessity justifying
the order of the State Railroad Commission of Washington to require track connections to be made at eight points.
The burden is on a state railroad commission to show that public
necessity requires track' connections, and the Commission is charged
with notice that the reasonableness of its order is to be determined
at the hearings before it.
While the statute of the State of Washington authorizing the State
Railroad Commission to order additional trackage is not unconstitutional as denying due process of law, the orders in this case were not
justified by public necessity, and therefore deprived the railroad
company of its property without due process of law.
52 Washington, 17, reversed.

A STATUTE of the State of Washington (March 7, 1905,
Sess. Laws, 1905, c. 81, p. 145, as amended March 16,
1907, Sess. Laws, 1907, c. 226, p. 536), authorizes the
Railroad Commission, upon complaint made, or on inquiry upon its own motion "after a full hearing .
to order that additional trackage or sidings be constructed . . . and that additional connections be
made."
In pursuance of this act, and by direction of the Commission, the Att6rney General filed a complaint against
the Oregon Railroad & Navigation Company, chartered
under the laws of Oregon, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company and the Spokane & Inland Railroad, praying
for an order requiring them to connect their tracks at
Pullman, Colfax, Garfield, Oakesdale, Rosalia, Waverly,

Thornton, Farmington, Connell and Palouse.

The com-

plaint averred that four of these towns were important
shipping points, and that at all of them there was a demand that cars should be transferred from one line to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

other, and a public necessity that track connection should
be made between the roads at all these points. The
Oregon Company filed an answer in which it denied that
the towns named were important shipping points; denied
that there was, or had ever been, any public demand for
the interchange of business at any of the places, or that
there was any public necessity for the connection.
At the hearing, evidence was introduced showing that
the Spokane & Inland was an electric road not yet completed; that all the roads had the same gauge; that in
three of the towns they crossed at grade; that in the others
the tracks were generally on the same level, and separated
by distances varying from a few feet up to 600 feet; that
the connecting tracks would generally be on the right of
way of the carriers, though in some instances it would be
necessary to acquire bther property by purchase or condemnation. There was evidence as to the price of switches
and the cost per lineal foot of laying a track with two
necessary connecting switches.
The principal witness on behalf of the State was an
inspector of the Commission, who testified that the three
roads were competitors, and ran from Spokane through
each of the towns named in the complaint; that wheat was
the principal product of the country, and that it was
shipped to Spokane or Portland, reached by each of the
roads or their connections; that the main business of the
towns named in the complaint was with Spokane; and
that the business between local stations was small. From
his testimony and a map it appears that, with the exception of Connell, all of the towns named lay in a strip about
fifty miles long and fifteen miles wide, one road on each
side, with the Spokane running about half way between
the other two; that the roads were generally parallel to
each other, but by curves and branch lines reached these
towns. In answer to specific inquiries he gave the route
a car would take if shipped from named stations on one

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

513

Statement of the Case.

line to named stations on another, under present conditions; and said that if the connections were made and
cars took that route the distance would be shortened, and
that if wheat, cattle or other property was thus .shipped to
and from such stations there would be a saving in time
and distance. He testified that he had no knowledge as
.to the amount of business done at any of the towns
named, or that such shipments had been offered or would
be made. He and the other witnesses on behalf of the
Commission testified that every purpose would be served
if there was a connection between the various roads at one
of the points named, some of them thinking Garfield the
best point and others that it should be at Oakesdale, from
which it was said the tracks radiated like the spokes of a
wheel. It appeared that the Oregon already connected
with the Northern Pacific at Garfield. The inspector and
other witnesses were not asked specifically as to all points,
but in answer to inquiries testified, without contradiction,
that there was no necessity for connecting the tracks at
Farmington, Thornton, Colfax, Waverly, nor at Garfield
or Oakesdale except as indicated above.
The witnesses for the carrier testified that a connection
at Garfield would accommodate all transfers that might
be offered; that there had been no demand at any of the
towns for such transfers in the past, and that there was no
necessity for making them.
Only one shipper was called as a witness. He testified
that a connection at Oakesdale would serve all purposes,
but gave no information as to the amount of his freight
business, nor the saving that would result to him or others
if the connection was put in. No merchants or shippers
from any of the towns named in the complaint, or referred
to in the evidence, were called. There was 'no proof as to
the volume of business at any of these places, nor as to the
amount of freight that would be routed" over these track
connections if they were constructed. Nor was there any
VOL. ccxX-r-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

testimony as to the probable revenue that would be derived from the use of the track connections or of the saving
in freight or otherwise that would result to shippers. The
Inspector of the Commission testified that these connections would develop very little business.
After the conclusion of the evidence the Commission
dismissed the complaint as to Rosalia and Palouse, where
the crossings were not at grade, and made an order in
which it found that the roads crossed at grade at two
points and ran in close proximity to each other through
all the other places; that there was a public necessity for
track connection, the cost of which, at each point, was
stated, varying from $316 to $1,460, and aggregating
about $7,00Q. It thereupon ordered that the companies
should agree among themselves as to the particular places
in said towns where the tracks should be laid and how the
expense should be divided, in default of which the Commission would make a supplemental order designating the
particular places where the connections should be made
and the proportion in which the expense should be borne
by each company.
The Oregon Company, being dissatisfied with this order,
filed in the Superior Court of Thurston County, a Petition
for Review, alleging the unconstitutionality of the statute
under which the order had been made, and also attacking
its reasonableness on the ground that "there was no
evidence showing or tending to show that there was any
public demand or public necessity for such track connection, or for the interchange of freight at either of said
points in carload lots . . . or that any public convenience would be subserved," but on the contrary that
the only evidence offered tended to show that there was
no public necessity and that it would be obliged to acquire
additional property and to incur large expense to make
the connection without any public necessity and be
thereby deprived of its property without compensation

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and without due process of law in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
This method of attacking the order by Petition for Review was in compliance with the provisions of the Washington statute which declared that "the order of the Commission shall of its own force take effect and become
operative twenty days after notice thereof has been
given. . . . And any railroad or express company
affected by the order of the Commission and deeming it to
be contrary to the law, may institute proceedings in the
superior court . . . and have such order reviewed
and its reasonableness and lawfulness inquired into and
determined. Pending such review, if the court having
jurisdiction shall be of the opinion that the order or requirement of the Commission is unreasonable, or unlawful, it may suspend the same . . . pending such
litigation. . . . Said action of review shall be taken
by the said railroad or express company within twenty
days after notice of said order, and if said action of review
is not taken within said time, then in all litigation thereafter arising between the State of Washington and said
railroad or express company, or private parties and said
railroad or express company, the said order shall be deemed
final and conclusive. If, however, said action in review
is instituted within said time, the said railroad or express company shall have the right of appeal or to prosecute by other appropriate proceedings, from the judgment of the superior court to the Supreme Court of the
State of Washington, as in civil actions. . . . The
action in review of such order, whether by writ of review or appeal, or otherwise, shall be heard by the court
without intervention of a jury and shall be heard and
determined upon the evidence and exhibits introduced
before the Commission and certified to by it. . . .'
The Bill of Exceptions recites that on the hearing, in
the Superior Court, the Oregon Company offered com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

petent and non-cumulative testimony in support of its
contention on the issues between it and the Commission,
which if received would have tended to show that there
was no public necessity for such track connections at
either of the places; that no public convenience would be
served by making them, and that the cost, instead of
aggregating $7,500, would be $21,000 (the amount at
each place being specified), besides the expense of acquiring additional land and franchises needed for the construction and operation of the tracks. The court rejected
all this evidence on the ground that, under the statute,
the Petition for Review must be determined on the testimony which had been submitted to the Commission.
After argument the Petition was dismissed and the
Oregon Company excepted. All of the evidence introduced before the Commission and attached as an exhibit
to its answer, was duly incorporated in the Bill of Exceptions, which also contains a recital that the photographs
and maps identified by one of the witnesses, had not been
forwarded by the Commission, nor were they considered
by the court. There was, however, no motion by the defendant for an order requiring such omitted papers to be
sent up so as to complete the record. Neither did it appear that any motion was made before the Conmission
to require a more definite statement of the location of the
proposed tracks.
The judgment dismissing the Petition was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State. 52 Washington, 17. It
held that the statute was valid; that it gave the defendant
every opportunity to make its defence and granted an
adequate judicial review by which to test the validity of
the order. In answer to the contention that the evidence
showed that the order was unreasonable and amounted
to a taking of property without public necessity, the court
merely said (p. 32): "As to the public necessity for the
track connections, we are not prepared to say that the-

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

finding of the commission in that respect was not justified
by the testimony." The cause was brought here by writ
of error, in which it is contended that the Washington
statute failed to furnish an adequate hearing or opportunity for judicial review, especially in prohibiting the submission to the court of competent evidence as to the unreasonableness of the order; and, further, there was no
evidence of a public necessity and that the order was void
as taking property without due process of law.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. Zera Snow and
Mr. W. W. Cotton were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Railroad Commission Law of Washington of 1905,
as amended in 1907, and the method of enforcement of
the regulation of railroads provided for by that law constitute a taking of the property of the plaintiff in error
without due process of law and a denial of the equal protection of the laws because adequate or effective judicial
remedies to the owners of railroad property in the State
are not provided for the determination of controversies
arising upon the question of whether there has been a just
and reasonable exercise of the power of regulation.
All regulation of the business of common carriers,
whether taking the form of a regulation of rates or the
making of track connections, must be reasonable, and the
question of the reasonableness or unreasonableness of all,
such attempted regulations is essentially a judicial question, which if not permitted by the law under which it is
undertaken, constitutes the taking of property without due
process of law and amounts to a denial of the equal protection of the law. Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S.
307; Chicago &c. Railway v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418;
Chicago &c. Railway v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339; Reagan
v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362, 397; Lake Shore &c.
Railway Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S.684, 697; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S.466, 526.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

If the State has no power to prevent a resort to the
Federal courts to redress what is claimed to be a wrongful
invasion of a property right, it should be equally powerless
to prevent in the Federal court a full examination of the
very questions at issue. It is an anomaly in judicial procedure to say that if the litigation proceeds in the state
court it must be heard and determined on the evidence
taken before the Commission, while if it proceeds in the
Federal court a right to a full investigation of the facts
exists. Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176
U. S. 167, 172; Wisconsin &c. Railroad Co. v. Jacobson,
179 U. S. 287, 297; Louisiana & A. Railway v. The State,
85 Arkansas, 12.
One of the main cases relied upon by the appellant,
Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, was decided
expressly upon the theory that no judicial determination
was permitted.
A hearing before the Railroad Commission and the review in the Superior Court do not constitute due process
because the Railroad Commission of the State of Washington is not a court; in the hearing before the Superior
Court, ยง 8 places upon the railroad company the burden
of setting aside the order of the Commission, but the
statute requires that such hearing shall be had only on
the evidence taken before the Commission and certified
by the Commission. Prior to the order of the Commission,
the railroad company had practically no knowledge of
what the order would be and what proof should be introduced by it. The statute does not provide adequate
means- whereby the railroad company can obtain and
introduce evidence before the Commission.
While the Commission may provide for hearings, process
to enforce the attendance of witnesses before the Commission, or to enforce testimony from contumacious witnesses
can issue only by the Superior Court, and then only at
the instance of the Commission-but not of the railroads.

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

If process to compel the attendance of a. witness is
necessary and the Commission should refuse to apply for
it, there is no method of reviewing its action.
If evidence is offered by the railways before the Commission and it is rejected, there is no method of reView of
the action of the Commission.
The Commission may take testimony by depositionthe railroad companies may not.
The Commission has no power to enforce its own orders,
but a suit must lie at the instance of the State, and by the
Attorney General, under direction of the Commission, to
compel obedience to its orders.
Rules of evidence to guide the Commission in taking or
receiving testimony are not provided for, nor is any order
of proof provided for.
The Commission has power to limit the number of
witnesses, and if this power is capriciously exercised, there
is no method of review of the action of the Commission.
An investigation by such a tribunal with such powers,
and without "the machinery provided by the wisdom of
successive ages for the investigation judicially of the truth
of a matter in controversy " cannot be said to afford to
the owners of railway property the judicial protection
which, by the many decisions of this court, it has been
held they are entitled to in the determination of the question of reasonableness or unreasonableness of the Commission's orders; such a court is a court without rudder or
compass. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 107; Hagar
v. Reclamation District No. 108,. 111 U. S.708; Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad v. Chicago, 166 U. S.240.
The Commission failed to make return of very important evidence, which might have aided the court in its
determination; nevertheless under ยง 3, the case must be
heard in the Superior Court upon the evidence certified to
by the Commission.
The Railway Commission Law is unconstitutional be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

224 U. S.

cause of the excessive penalties which follow a refusal to
comply with the Commission's orders, rendering a compliance necessary rather than resort to the courts for a
decision as to the validity and reasonableness of the orders

of the Commission. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
There was no public necessity or public convenience to
be subserved by the track connections ordered; the order
was an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of bald power,
and as such it constituted a taking of the property of the
plaintiff in error without due process of law.
The testimony clearly indicates that all the connections
ordered were unnecessary, and such is the finding of the
chairman of the Cdmmission. In fact the ordering of all
the connections in the order was a bald exercise of power
by the Commission unsupported by any evidence showing
any reason or necessity therefor. Under such conditions
the order constitutes the taking of property without due
process of law. Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S.287; Louisiana & A. Ry. v. The State, 85 Arkansas,
12.
When the question of reasonableness of the regulation
of a carrier is up for consideration, the evidence leading
up to the regulation must be examined. C. N. & St. P. Ry.
v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, .172; Wisconsin R. R. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Atl. Coast Line v. N. Car. Com-

mission, 206 U. S. 1; Louisiana & A. Ry. v. The State, 85
Arkansas, 12.
Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, with whom Mr. Walter P. B6ll and Mr. S. H.
Kelleran were on the brief, for defendants in error:
The Railroad Commission Law of Washington does not
deny the due process of law clause.
After the order of the commissioners becomes a finality
'the Attorney General may institute an equitable action in
the name of the State in the Superior Court to procure the

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

enforcement of the same. Provision is made for the railroad company to petition for modification of any order of
the Commission whenever surrounding circumstances have
changed, and the same appellate or review proceedings are
provided for a decision on that order as in original cases.
An act which provides for personal notice and service of
a copy of the complaint, with full and complete opportunity to appear, introduce witnesses, with compulsory
process for their attendance, and a full hearing before a
special tribunal, legally constituted by appointment by the
Governor of the State, subject to the confirmation of the
state senate, members under oath and bond, does not
deprive a railroad company, Whose facilities are subject
thereto, of its property without due process of law, because the provision in the act giving a right of appeal to
the state court from an adverse decision of the Commission
requires the state court to decide the case upon the evidence adduced before the Commission: Long Island Water
Supply Co. v. City of Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Voigt v.
Detroit, 184 U. S. 115; Goodrich v. Detroit, 184 U. S. 432;
Ross v. Board of Supervisors, 128 Iowa, 427; S. C., 104
N. W. Rep. 506; Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley,
164 U. S. 112.
Due process is not necessarily judicial process. Reetz v.
Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; Public Clearing House v. Coyne,
194 U. S. 497; .United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253;
Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken &c. Co., 18 How. 272.
Nor is the right of appeal essential to due process of
law. Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; Andrews v. Swartz,
156 U. S. 272.
While the state legislature cannot deny the right of
review altogether, the judicial review, provided by the
act in question, is not such as to deprive the plaintiff in
error of its property without due process of law.
The state legislature could not, if it' would, deny to a
railroad company access to the Federal courts to set

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

224 U. S.

aside, by injunction or other appropriate procedure, a
schedule of rates or a requirement of service or facilities,
which were so low, or otherwise so unreasonable, as to
amount to confiscation of the property of the railroad.
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Reagan v. Farmers'Loan &
Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362.
The Washington act does not undertake to deprive the
Federal courts of jurisdiction. St. Louis & S. F. R. R. Co. v.
Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Covington & L. Co. v. Sandford, 164
U. S. 578; San Diego Land & Town Co. v. National City,
174 TI. S. 739.
This court has never attempted to define the sort of
judicial review'which will satisfy the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, is not an authority in this case. But see Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U. S. 107; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Hurtado
v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 537; Louisville &c. R. R. Co.
v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230, 236; Iowa Central R. ,R. Co. v.
Iowa 160 U. S. 389, 393; New York & N. E. Ry. Co. v.
Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 571; Capital Traction,Co. v. Hof,
174 U. S. 1; Hagarv. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701,
708; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 77.
The act in question falls clearly within the principles
announced by this court. Obviously the object of the
legislature was to require the railroad companies to present their evidence to the Railroad Commission so that the
tribunal may have the benefit of a full hearing. The
Commission is thereby enabled to render its decision upon
a complete presentation of all the facts. The saving in
both time and expense resultant from this system alone
justifies its adoption. The railroad companies under such
a system must necessarily produce their testimony before
the Commission. The testimony will there be preserved
in written form and in the review proceeding the time of
taking the testimony will be saved, and the expense of

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transcribing and preserving the same need not again be
incurred. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad Co.
v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; East Tennessee &c. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 181 U. S. 1; Cincinnati &c. Railway Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184.
The act under consideration is not void because the
penalties prescribed are so large as to practically preclude
recourse to the courts to have the oiders of the Commission reviewed judicially. This question has been eliminated by the decision of the state Supreme Court. ' It was
there held that the alleged excessive penalties might fall
and the remainder of the act stand. The construction of
the act thus placed upon it by the state tribunal is binding
and conclusive upon this court. Reagan v. Farmers'Loan
& Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362.
The act does not impose an excessive penalty nor prevent recourse to the courts in any proper case.
The order is not so unreasonable or arbitrary as to
operate as a taking of property without due process of
law.
The record fails to show any arbitrary, capricious or
unreasonable requirement of the Commission in respect
to physical connections, but, on the contrary, the record shows a necessity for a connection at each place required.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.'JUSTICE LAmA.R,

1. The Commission's order requiring the Oregon Company to make track connection was not a mere administrative regulation, but it was a taking of property, since
it compelled the defendant to expend money and prevented it from using for other purposes, the land on which
the tracks were to be laid. Its validity could not be sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

tained merely because of the fact that the carrier had
been givei, an opportunity to be heard, but was to be
tested by considering whether, in view of all the facts, the
taking was arbitrary and unreasonable or was justified by
the public necessities which the carrier could lawfully be
compelled to meet. For the guaranty of the Constitution
extends to the protection of fundamental rights,-to the
substance of the order as well as to the notice and hearing
which precede it. "The mere form of the proceeding
instituted against the owner, even if he be admitted to
defend, cannot convert the process used into due process
of law, if the necessary result be to deprive him of his
property without compensation."
Chicago &c. Ry. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 236; Missouri Pacific Ry. v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 416. So that where the taking is
under an administrative regulation the defendant must
not be denied the right to show that as matter of law the
order was so arbitrary, unjust or unreasonable as to
amount to a deprivation of property in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago &c. R. R. v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 418; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Chicago &c.
R. R. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 173.
2. This was recognized by the Supreme Court of the
State, which held that this constitutional right was not
denied, but that the statute furnished, first, an adequate
opportunity to be heard before the Commission, and then
provided for a judicial review by authorizing the company
to test the validity of the order in the Superior Court.
Both of these rulings are assigned as error by the Oregon
Company. It complains that the statute did not afford
it the means of making a defence before the Commission
and yet required it to attack the reasonableness of the
order;on such evidence as it might have been able to produce before the administrative body. If this were true
the defendant's position would be correct, for the hearing
which must precede the taking of property is not a mere

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

form. The carrier must have the right to secure and
present evidence material to the issue under investigation.
It must be given the opportunity by proof and argument
-to controvert the claim asserted against it before a tribunal
bound not only to listen but to give legal effect to what
has been established. But, as: construed by the state
court, all these rights were amply secured by the statute,
which declared that the Commission, "after a full hearing,"
might require track connection. On such investigation
the company could have objected to the sufficiency of the
complaint and obtained an order requiring it to be made
more specific as to the exact location of the proposed
tracks. The defendant was given the benefit of compulsory process to secure and present evidence in its behalf.
There was a provision to require the attendance of witnesses, the production of documents and for the taking of
testimony by deposition. It also had the right to crossexamine witnesses produced on the part of the Commission
and the privilege of offering evidence on every matter
material to the investigation.
3. The defendant insists, however, that, no matter how
complete the right to be heard before the Commission,
the statute having denied all other opportunity for testing
the validity of the order in the state courts, furnished an
utterly inadequate judicial review because, as the carrier
could not anticipate what- decision would be made, it was
unjust to require it to produce evidence, to show in advance, the unreasonableness of an order, the terms of
which were not known. From this it argues that the
statute was unconstitutional in so far as it prevented the
court from receiving competent and non-cumulative testimony tending to prove that there was no public necessity for making the track connection and that the order
was void.
This position would be true if the defendant had not
been put on notice as to what order was asked for and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

then given ample opportunity to show that it would be
unjust or unreasonable to grant it. In this case, and
under the statute, it was given such notice. The complaint alleged that some of the towns were important
shipping points and that at all of them there was a public
necessity that the roads should be connected. The defendant denied each of these allegations. The hearing,
both on the law and the facts, was necessarily limited to
that issue. There could have been no valid order which
was broader than that claim. The defendant was charged
with notice that if the allegations of the complaint as to
necessity were established the order could then be lawfully granted, unless there was also proof that the cost, in
comparison with the receipts, or other fact, knade it unjust to require the connections to be made. The carrier
was therefore given the right both to meet the charge of
public necessity and also to establish any fact which
would make it unjust to pass the order for which the complainant prayed. The act further provided that after the
administrative body had acted, the carrier should have
the right to test the lawfulness and reasonableness of the
regulation in the Superior Court, where every error in rejecting or excluding evidence, or otherwise, could be
corrected. On that trial the court was not bound by the
finding of fact, but, like the Commission, it was obliged to
weigh and consider the testimony and to give full effect
to what was established by the evidence, since it acted
judicially, "under an imperative obligation, with a sense
of official responsibility for impar.tial and right decision,
which is imputed to the discharge of official duties."
Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 334.
4. Having been given full opportunity to be heard on
the issues made by the complaint and answer, and as to
the reasonableness of the proposed order and having
adopted the statutory method of review, this company
cannot complain. It had the right to offer all competent

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

527

Opinion of the Court.

testimony before the Commission, which, in view of the
form of proceedings authorized by the statute, acted in
this respect somewhat like a master in chancery who has
been required to take testimony and report his findings
of fact and conclusions of law. The court would test its
correctness by the evidence submitted to the master.
Nor would there be any impairment of the right to a
judicial review, because additional testimony could not be
submitted to the chancellor. The statute enlarges what
this court has recognized to be proper practice in equity
cases attacking such regulations. There the hearing is
de novo and there is no prohibition in equity against
offering all competent evidence to prove that the order
was unreasonable. But in Cinn., N. 0. & Tex. Pac. v. I.
C. C., 162 U. S. 184, 196, it was said: "We think this a
proper occasion to express disapproval of such a method of
procedure on the part of the railroad companies as should
lead them to withhold the larger part of their evidence
from the Commission, and first adduce it in the Circuit
Court. . . . The theory of the act evidently is, as
shown by the provision that the findings of the Commission shall be regarded as prima facie evidence, that the
facts of the case are to be disclosed before the commission." See also Texas & Pacific v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 197,
238, 239; Missouri &c. Ry. v. I. C. C., 164 Fed. Rep. 645,
649.
There is no claim here that the evidence rejected by the
Superior Court was newly discovered, or that its materiality could not have been anticipated, or that for any reason the defendant had been prevented from submitting
to the Commission the testimony it offered in court to
show that the cost would be $21,000 instead of $7,500.
Noi was there any allegation of surprise, mistake or other
extraordinary fact requiring the admission of such evidence in order to preserve the right guaranteed by the
Constitution. There is, therefore, no call for a decision as

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

to whether, under those circumstances, such evidence
should be admitted, or the case remanded so that the
Commission might consider material and probably controlling testimony which the carrier, without fault "on its
part, had failed to submit on the first hearing.
5. If, then, the defendant had notice and was given the
right to show that the order asked for, if granted, would
be unreasonable, it has not in this case been deprived of
the right to a hearing. That being so, it leaves for consideration the contention that as a matter of law, the
order, on the facts proved, was so unreasonable as to
amount to a taking of property withort due process of
law. This necessitates an examination of the evidence,
not for the purpose of passing on conflicts in the testimony
or of deciding upon pure questions of fact, but, as said in
Kansas City Railway Co. v. Albers Commission Co., 223
U. S. 573, 591, from an inspection of the "entire record,
including the evidence, if properly incorporated therein,
to determine whether what purports to be a finding upon
questions of fact is so involved with and dependent upon
such questions of law as to be in substance and effect a
decision of the latter." Cedar Rapids Gas Light Co. v.
Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655; Graham v. Gill, 223 U. S. 643.
HeFe the question presented is whether as matter of law
the facts proved show the existence of such a public necessity s authorizes a taking of property.
6. Since the decision in Wisconsin &c. R. R. v. Jacob-son, 179 U. S. 287, there can be no doubt of the power
of a State, acting through an administrative body, to require railroad companies to make track connection. But
manifestly that does not mean that a Commission may
compel them to build branch lines, so as to connect roads
lying at a distance from eachother; nor does it mean that
they may be required to make connections at every point
where their tracks -come close together in city, town and
country, regardless of the amount of business to be done,

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

529

Opinion of the Court.

or the number of persons who may utilize the connection
if built. The question in each case must be determined in
the light of all the facts, and with a just regard to the
advantage to be derived by the public and the expense to
be incurred by the carrier. For while the question of expense must always be considered (Chicago &c. R. R. v.
Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 174), the weight to be given
that fact depends somewhat on the character of the
facilities sought. If the order involves the use of property
needed in the discharge of those duties which the carrier
is bound to perform, then, upon proof of the necessity,
the order will be granted, even though "the furnishing
of such necessary facilities may occasion an incidental
pecuniary loss." But even then. the matter of expense is
"an important criteria to be taken into view in determining the reasonableness of the order." Atlantic Coast Line
R. R. v. North Carolina Commission, 206 U. S. i, 27; Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262. Where, however, the proceeding is brought to compel a carrier to
furnish a facility not included within its absolute duties;
the question of expense is of more controlling importance.
In determining the reasonableness of such an order the
court must consider all the facts,-the places and persons
interested, the volume of business to be affected, the saving in time and expense to the shipper, as against the cost
and loss to the carrier. On a consideration of such and
similar facts the question of public necessity and the reasonableness of the order must be determined. This was
done in Wisconsin R; R. v. Jacobson, in which for the first
time, it was decided that a state commission might compel
two competing interstate roads to connect their tracks.
It appeared on an examination of the facts in that case
that on one of the lines there was an immense supply of
wood, for which there was a great demand at points on
the other, where there was none, and that if the connecting track was installed there would be a saving in time and
VOL. ccxxiv-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

freight on this large volume of business. It also appeared
that many cattle were raised on one line, for which there
were important markets on the other, and that without
the track donnection these cattle would have to be hauled
over a much longer route, with a resulting loss in weight
and value. The advantage to the public was so great that
the order requiring the track connection was sustained, in
spite of the fact that one of the roads was thereby deprived of the revenue which it would otherwise have received for the longer haul.
But the court said (p. 301) that"in so deciding we do not at all mean to hold that undei
no circumstances could a judgment enforcing track connection between two railroad corporations be a violation
of the constitutional rights of one or the other, or possibly
of both such corporations. It would depend upon the
facts surrounding the cases in regard to which the judgment was given. The reasonableness of the judgment with
reference to the facts concerning each case must be a
material, if not a controlling, factor upon the question
of its validity. A statute, or a regulation provided for
therein, is frequently valid, or the reverse, according as
the fact may be, whether, it is a reasonable or an unreasonable exercise of legislative power over the subjectmatter involved. And in many cases questions of degree
are the controlling ones by which to determine the validity, or the reverse, of legislative action."
7. The complaint in this case was framed in recognition
of this principle and alleged that several of the towns were
important shipping points, and that at all of them there
was a public demand and a public necessity for track connection between the lines of the several roads. As there
is no presumption that connection should be made merely
because the roads are in proximity to each other, the
burden was on the Commission. If no evidence whatever
had been offered the order could not have been granted, or,

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

531

Opinion of the Court.

if granted, would necessarily have been set aside by the
court on the hearing of the Petition for Review because
there was no proof of the fact on which only the order
could issue taking the defendant's property. The same
result must have followed if the testimony that was so
submitted to the Commission was insufficient to establish
the existence of the public necessity alleged to exist. For,
even if under the statute the burden was cast on the defendant when the Petition for Review came on to be
heard, the Company could, in view of the limited character
of the proceedings permitted, successfully carry that
burden by showing to the court that there was before the
Commission a lack of evidence to prove the existence of a
public necessity. That it was bound to sustain the allegations of the complaint seems to have been recognized by
that body, and witnesses in its behalf were examined as -to
the cost of laying the track and also on the subject of the
public demand and necessity. It was testified, however,
without contradiction, that there was no necessity for
connection at Waverly, Thornton, Farmington or Colfax.
They were not asked specifically as to the connections at
all of the other towns, though there was proof of the
general proposition that if the connections were laid it
would shorten the haul between given points in case goods
were routed over these tracks. But as to the essential
elements of a public necessity there was nothing at all
comparable to what was established in the-Jacobson Case.
There the evidence of necessity was clear and convincing, it being shown that a large volume of business would
be served and a great saving in rates effected and loss in
value of cattle prevented if the two roads were united by
a switch track. Here there is no evidence of inadequate
service, no proof of public complaint or of a public demand,
and no testimony that any freight had been offered in the
past for shipment between the points named, or that any
such freight would be offered in the future; nor was there

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

any evidence whatever as to the volume of freight that
would use these tracks or that the saving in freight and
time to the shipper would justify the admitted expense to
the carrier, whether that expense be $7,500, as found by
the Commission, or $21,000, as claimed by the carrier.
Neither do the undisputed facts establish what appeared in Minneapolis & St. L. Ry. v. Minnesota, 193
U. S. 53, where, under the statute, the order was prima
facie binding in so far as it required the company to build
9tations in towns and villages. The court found that this
prima facie case had not been overcome, and that at the
town named there was no station; that in view of the increase in population since a prior refusal to grant the
order "it was necessary for the accommodation of the
citizens of the town and vicinity, the public at large, and
the public necessity required that the company should
build and maintain a station house.'! But here there was
no evidence whatever warranting a finding that there was
any public necessity for the track connections.
8. The chairman of the Commission dissented as to so
much of the order as required connections to be made at
Thornton, Waverly, Farmington and Pullman, on the
ground that there was no evidence of any public necessity
therefor at those points, and it would involve expense
which would ultimately have to be paid by the people.
And it is practically conceded here that the proof was
insufficient-the Attorney General in his brief filed in this
case saying that "it must be admitted that the testimony
introduced before the Commission as to the character of
the traffic, and the nature of the traffic movement in the
territory served by the lines of railway is not of a very
satisfactory or definite character." He argues, however,
that there is nothing to show that the Commission acted
arbitrarily and that the carriers ought to have produced
their records for the purpose of showing that there was
no need for physical connections at the places where the

OREGON R. R. & N. CO. v. FAIRCHILD.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Commission was seeking to have them installed. That
might have been true if the evidence was peculiarly within
their knowledge or if the company had been permitted to
file a Bill in Equity attacking a final order in the usual
and ordinary manner without being restricted by statute
as to the evidence that might be considered by the court.
In this case the witnesses for the railroad confirmed what
had been stated by those for the Commission, and testified
that there had been no demand for track connections and
that there was no necessity to put them in. The company
was not permitted to offer additional testimony for the
purpose of establishing its defense, since the statute declared that the validity of the order was to be determined
by the Court on what had been proved before the Commission. The burden was on the Commission to establish
the allegations in the complaint. That body, as well as the
carrier, was charged with notice that the reasonableness of
the order was to be determined by what appeared at the
hearing before it. The insufficiency of the evidence submitted to the Commission could not under this statute be
supplied on the judicial review by a presumption arising
from the failure of the carrier to disprove what had not
been established.
A careful examination of this record fails to show what,
if any, business would be routed over these connections,
or what saving would come to the public if they were constructed. There is nothing by which to compare the advantage to the public with the expense to the defendant
and nothing to show that within the meaning of the law
there is such public necessity as to justify an order taking
property from the company. The judgment is therefore
reversed without prejudice to the power of the Commission
to institute new proceedings.
Reversed.

