OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Parties.

224 U. S.

CONSUMERS' COMPANY, LIMITED, v. HATCH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.

No. 184. Argued March 4, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
When prior to the granting of a charter to a public service corporation
it has been clearly settled both by statute law and decisions that
such a corporation must perform. certain duties, the compelling of
such performance does not amount to an impairment of the charter
contract, nor does it deprive the corporation of its property without
due process of law.
Although a public service corporation may not under its charter be
required to extend its facilities in certain quarters, if it does so voluntarily, it must render the service for which it obtained its charter
to those within reach of its facilities without distinction of persons.
A judgment of the state court of Idaho, compelling a water company
to furnish connection at its own expense to one residing on an ungraded street in which it -had voluntarily laid its mains, although
not required so to do by its charter, held not to have impaired the
charter contract of the water company or to have deprived it of its
property without due process of law, it appearing that under decisions of the highest court of the State made prior to the charter, the
cost of connection was to be borne by the water company.
17 Idaho, 204, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the charter
of a public service corporation in Idaho and its rights
and obligations thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Myron A. Folsom, with whom Mr. Edward S. Elder
and Mr. Robert H. Elder were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error
Mr. Eugene V. Boughton, with whom Mr. Frank W.
Reed was on the brief, for defendant in error, submitted.

CONSUMERS' CO. v. HATCH.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

. MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered
the opinion of the

court.
Omitting reference to matters not pertinent to the
alleged Federal questions relied upon, the facts are these:
Although it was optional with it to do so, the plaintiff
in error, a water supply corporation, operating under a
franchise granted in 1903, laid a water main in Third
street, an ungraded street within the corporate limits of
the then village-now city-of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.
While the company was supplying residents on the street
with water for domestic use, upon payment of the regular
monthly rates established by the Water. Commission provided for by the statutes of Idaho, Albert L. Hatch, defendant in error, erected a dwelling upon a lot situated on
the street and laid a water pipe to the curb in front of his
property. He then applied to the Water Company to
connect the pipe at the curb line with its service main, so
that a regular supply of water might be obtained. The
Water Company, however, declined to make the desired
connection because of the refusal of Hatch to pay, as
required by the regulations of the company, $8.50, the
cost of making the connection, or to comply with alternative regulations adopted for the purpose of enabling the
Water Company to recover such cost. This action in
mandamus was then commenced in the Supreme Court of
Idaho and culminated in a judgment in substance finding
the regulations requiring a consumer to pay for service
connections unreasonable and ordering the Water Company to make the connection at its own cost and to supply
water to the premises of Hatch upon payment of the
established monthly rate. 17 Idaho, 204. This writ of
error was then prosecuted upon the assumption that rights
of the Water Company, protected by the Constitution of
the United States, had been wrongfully invaded.
The grounds for the claim in question are in substance

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

that as the Water Company was not required by its
charter in express terms to make a service connection and
the benefits of such connection would inure solely to the
house owner, to compel the Water Company to bear
the cost of the connection would amount to a confiscation
of its property in violation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment and also would be to impair the
obligation of its contract. A further claim of impairment
of contract is based upon the contention that as it was
optional with the Water Company under its franchise to
lay mains in ungraded streets there was no duty to supply
water from a main voluntarily placed in an ungraded
street.
The contentions are devoid of merit. The charter of
the company was construed by the court below in connection with the statutes in force at the time of the grant
of the franchise in the light of the construction given to
those statutes in decisions made prior to such grant. We
excerpt in the margin 1 a passage from the opinion in one
of those cases.
In Pocatello Water Company v. Standley (1900), 7 Idaho, 155, considering obligations of a water supply company and construing § 2712
of 1887 Revised Statutes of Idaho, substantially reenacted in Revised
Code of Idaho 1910 as § 2840, the Supreme Court of Idaho said (p. 159):
"Under the said franchise the respondent has been granted the
right to lay. its mains and .pipes, over, along, and under, the streets,
alleys, and highways of said city for the purpose of supplying said
city and its inhabitants with a sufficiency of pure water. It had the
authority to lay all of the mains and pipes in said streets and alleys
necessary to accomplish the purposes for which said franchise was
granted. It is obliged to lay its mains and pipes in said streets and
alleys, and deliver water to the consumers at its franchise limits, and
to the line of the premises of the consumer, if such premises border on
said franchise limits. The respondent has been granted a valuable
right-that of laying its mains and laterals in the streets and alleys of
the city-in consideration that it will furnish water to said city and
its inhabitants. The company is under obligation to lay its pipes in
the streets and alleys so as to make the water accessible to the citizen

CONSUMERS' CO. v. HATCH.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By thus interpreting the charter by applying the settled
meaning of the statutes which had been announced at the
time the charter was granted to the Water Company, the
court held that it was the duty of the company under its
charter to make the service connections for Hatch at its
own cost. This was based upon the view that as it was
,clearly settled by both the statute law and decisions at
the time the charter was granted that it was the duty of
the Water Company to make service connections and its
further duty being to supply water to consumers by necessary implication the charter imposed the obligation to
pay the cost of the service connection which it was incumbent upon the company. to make.
That the construction thus placed upon the charter by
the court below in the light of the state of the law at the
time of its adoption did not amount to an impairment of
the obligations of the charter by subsequent legislation is,
we think, too clear for anything but statement. That the
mere fact of holding that an obligation would be implied
to pay for the doing of work to enable the corporation to
perform a duty when the duty to do such work was clearly
the result of the state law and decisions thereon at the
time the charter was granted did not amount to confisca.tion, and the consequent taking of the property of the
corporation without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment is also, we think, so obvious as
not to necessitate further consideration of the proposition.
As respects the claim based upon the clause of the
charter which provided that the Water .Company should
not be "required" to extend its distributing system in any
ungraded street or alley within the then village (now city)
of Cceur d'Alene, even if it were possible to indulge in
for his private use. It is given the-right, within its franchise limits, to
lay all pipes and make all connections with its mains and laterals. ...
Neither has the citizen any right to enter within the franchise limits
of the company, and in any manner interfere with its mains and pipes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

the hypothesis that there was subsequent legislation, we
think there is nothing supporting the claim of impairment
of contract, because the Supreme Court of Idaho was
clearly right in deciding that no contract provision was
impaired, since the Water Company had voluntarily laid
its main in the ungraded street in question and was supplying water from such main to residents on the street,
and its duty was to supply water "without distinction of
persons."
Affirmed.

GUARANTEE TITLE & TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE OF PITTSBURGH INDUSTRIAL IRON
WORKS, BANKRUPT, v. TITLE GUARANTY &
SURETY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 188.

Argued March 5, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

Under the general rule applicable to all sovereigns, the United States
is not bound by the provisions of an insolvency law unless specially
mentioned therein.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1867 and the act of March 3, 1797, 1 Stat. 515,
c. 20, now §§ 3467, 3468, 3469, Rev. Stat., by both of which all debts
due the United States are given priority over all claims, were in pari
materia, and the Bankruptcy Act of 1867 affirmed the act of 1797.
Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898 was not an affirmation of the act of 1797
or of Rev. Stat., § 3467, 3468, 3469, and the change of provisions in
regard to priority indicates a change of purpose in that respect.
Under a beneficent policy, which favors those working for their daily
bread and does not seriously affect the sovereign, Congress, in enacting the Bankruptcy Law of 1898, preferred labor claims and gave
them priority over all other claims except taxes, and the courts must
assume a change of purpose in the change of order.

