THOMAS v. TAYLOR.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

be afforded the contract was treated as a restriction upon
the use of the machine covered by the patent, So inexorable
was the contrary result of the contract that in framing
the decree it became necessary to give relief upon the
theory that the gravamen of the suit was the violation
of a contract stipulation in regard to unpatented materials.
For these reasons I, therefore, dissent.

THOMAS v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 171. Argued February 28, 1912.-Decided March 18, 1912.
How an action brought in the state court shall be denominated is for
the state court to determine.
Although the common-law action of deceit does not lie against directors
of a national bank for making a false statement, and the measure
of their responsibility is laid down in the National Banking Act,
Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, an action may be maintained in the state court regardless of the form of pleading if the
pleading itself satisfies the rule of responsibility declared by that act.
There is, in effect, an intentional violation of a statute when one deliberately refuses to examine that which it is his duty to examine.
The fact that a statement of the condition of a national bank is not
made voluntarily, but under order of the Comptroller of the Currency, does not relieve the directors from liability for false statements knowingly made therein.
Notice from the Comptroller of. the Currency to directors of a national
bank to collect or charge off certain assets is a warning that those
assets are doubtful; and to disregard such a notice and represent the
assets in a statement to be good is a violation of the law and renders
the directors making the statement liable for damages to one deceived thereby.
The objection that an action for deceit against directors of a national

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

224 U. S.

bank was not declared in the trial court to be based on the Federal
statute, and, therefore, defendants did not introduce evidence applicable to such a suit but which could be omitted in a common.law action, should be raised in the lower courts; such an objection
is without merit where it appears that the issues actually raised
were broad enough to allow and require the introduction of such
evidence.
A judgment cannot be reversed on the mere suggestion that upon some
other theory than that on which the case was tried evidence might
have been introduced which might have changed the result.
195 N. Y. 590, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of directors of a
national bank for damages caused by a false statement
of the condition of the bank, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Nash Rockwood for plaintiffs in error:
The remedy prescribed by the statute is exclusive; no
common-law action for deceit will lie. See §§ 5211, 5239,
Rev. Stats.
This is a penal statute, prescribing a duty, creating a
liability, imposing a penalty, and providing a method for
its enforcement; the duty so prescribed is entirely new, the
liability so created had not theretofore existed, and this
penalty had never been imposed, until the statute changed
and entirely abrogated the common law relating to the
subject. Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S.158, 176.
The judgment of the state court, awarded in a commonlaw action for deceit, cannot be sustained here as a recovery, under the Federal statute.
Having secured his judgment at common law, upon
common-law proceedings and common-law proof, defendant in error now seeks to sustain it upon a different theory,
and one which plaintiffs in error have never been permitted
to defend.
Under our system of jurisprudence such a contention
cannot prevail.
For distinction between these forms of action see Utley

THOMAS v. TAYLOR.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

v. Hill, 155 Missouri, 232, cited with approval in!206 U. S.
180; Kountze v. Kennedy, 147 N. Y. 129, 234.
Section 5239 has been so strictly construed as to require proof of something more than mere negligence and
recklessness; nothing short of intentional violation will
suffice. Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 180;
Utley v. Hill, 155 Missouri, 232, 264; McDonald v. Williams, 174 U. S. 397.
Proceedings by virtue of which it is sought to impose
upon plaintiffs in error a severe penalty do not in any
sense constitute due process of law, which means a legal
proceeding appropriate to the case and just to the parties,
and which, above all else, gives the party to be affected
a full opportunity to be heard. Burton v. Platter,53 Fed.
Rep. 901; Gentry v. United States, 101 Fed. Rep. 51; In re
Rosser, 101 Fed. Rep. 562, 567; Galpin v. Page,A8 Wall.
350, 368; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274; Hovey v.
Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, 414; Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427,
436; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 391; Merrill v. Rokes,
12 U. S. App. 183; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, 262;
Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 238; Moyer v. Peabody,
212 U. S. 78, 84.
No violation of the statute was shown, even if the proper
remedy had been invoked.
Directors can only be held liable under the Federal
statute for a violation "knowingly done" or "knowingly
permitted." Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S.
158-180.
The report was a true and correct statement of the
condition of the bank as shown by its books.. This is
established by the evidence and findings, and is nowhere
disputed.
The letter of the Comptroller of the Currency was not
a final decision upon the value of these assets, which compelled the directors to immediately treat them as worthless. United States v. Graves, 53 Fed. Rep. 634. See also

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S.

Potter v. United States, 155 U. S. 438; United States v.
Young, 128 Fed. Rep. 111; Coffin v. United States, 156
U., S. 446; Graves v. United States, 165 U. S. 324; Twining
v. United States, 141 Fed. Rep. 41.
There is no sufficient evidence that the defendant in
error suffered damage by reason of any act of the plaintiffs
in error.
' Defendant in error has mistaken his forum, as this action cannot be maintained in a state court. In re Eno, 54
Fed. Rep. 669; State v. Tuller, 34 Connecticut, 280; Commonwealth v. Felton, 101 Massachusetts, 204; People v.
Fonda, 62 Michigan, 401; Commonwealth v. Ketner, 92
Pa.The
St. 372.
Federal courts have exclusive cognizance
of the
offense of embezzlement of the funds, etc., of a national
bank, and the offense is punishable only under United
States statutes. United States v. Buskey, 38 Fed. Rep.
99i State v. Tuller, 34 Connecticut, 280; Commonwealth
v. Felton, 101 Massachusetts, 214; Commonwealth v.
Kitner, 92 Pa. St. 372; People v. Fonda, 62 Michigan, 401.
State courts hav jurisdiction of offenses by national
bank officers for which the acts of Congress have not
made provision. State v. Tuller, supra; State v. Fields, 98
Iowa, 748; State v. Bardwell, 72 Mississippi, 535.
Mr. Edgar T. Brackett for defendant in error:
At the time of the commencement of the action, the
facts here proven and before recited made out against the
defendants a case of deceit at common law. Bracketvt v.
Griswold, 112 N. Y. 454, 467; Kley v. Healy, 127 N. Y.
555, 561; Kuelling v. Lean Mfg. Co., 183 N. Y. 78, 84;
Kingsland v. Haines, 62 App. Div. 146, 148; Ettlinger v.
Weil, 94 App. Div. 291; Mason v. Moore,_4 L. R. A. 597,
605; Mors v. Swits,, 19 How. Pr. 275, 287; Barb&r v. Morgan, 19 How. Pr. 275, 287.
The action is well brought and the recovery right under

THOMAS v. TAYLOR.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the terms of § 5211, Rev. Stat., the necessary implication of which is that the statement thus made and attested must be true and that a false report is prohibited.
Yates v. Jones Nat. Bank, 206 U. S. 157-177; § 5239 Rev.
Stat.
Two results may flow from a violation of its provisions:
the franchise of the association may be forfeited-if such
a result is sought, or reached, it must be through the
medium of the Federal courts; or the directors guilty may
be held liable for the damages sustained by any person.
Yates v. Jones National Bank, supra.
Even if the recovery is sustained upon a theory different
from that upon which it was based by the Special Term,
as it is correct it will not be reversed because founded on
a wrong reason. Martin v. Universal, 85 N. Y. 278, 284;
Ward v. Hasbrouck, 169 N. Y. 407, 420; Siefke v. Siefhe,
6 App. Div. 472, 474; Penny v. Rochester, 7 App. Div. 595,
606; Cullinan v. Furthman, 70 App. Div. 110, 112; Arnot
v. Erie, 67 N. Y. 315, 321; McLaughlin v. Fowler, 154
U. S. 663; Lancaster v. Collins, 115 U. S. 222, 227.
A finding that the defendants below knew, or were convinced, is simply stating in two forms that the defendants
knew; and a statement recklessly made, without knowledge of its truth, which is, in reality, false, is a false statement knowingly made. Cooper v. Schlesinger, 111 U. S.
148, 155; Moline Plow Co. v. Carson, 72 Fed. Rep. 387,
392; Boddy v. Henry, 113 Iowa, 463, 468; Rothschild v.
Mack, 115 N. Y. 1, 7; Hadcock v. Osmer, 153 N. Y. 604,
609.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action against plaintiffs in error for attesting as directors
a false report, as it is alleged, of the condition of The
Citizens' National Bank of Saratoga Springs, New York,
whereby the plaintiff in the action (defendant in error)

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

was deceived and induced to purchase thirty
shares of
the stock of the bank for the sum of $160 per share, which
would have been worth that sum had the report been true,
but on account of its being false he was compelled to pay
100 per cent assessment on his shares, which was required
to be made by the Comptroller of the Currency. Damages
were laid in the sum of $4,800, for which, with interest,
judgment was prayed.
The action was framed in deceit under the common
law, the trial court stating that "the defendant claims,
and the plaintiff concedes, that this is- not an action to
recover upon any liability stated in the National Banking
Act against a director or officer of a national bank." And
:this was the ground of judgment, the trial court rejecting
the contention of defendants (plaintiffs in error) that the
only action, if any, available to the plaintiff (defendant in
error) was under the National Bank Act. The court said:
"But here the liability set forth in the complaint is not
created by statute; the action is not a statutory action.
It is the common-law action to recover damages in deceit
affecting plaintiff ohly, not the bank or the stockholders
generally, and must be considered as such. In the complaint the plaintiff has set forth a cause of action for
deceit, and not a cause of action under the statute." The
court was also of the view that there was nothing in the
statutes of the United States "that destroys the commonlaw action for deceit practiced by the directors of a national bank;" and said, further, that if the plaintiff were
attempting to enforce a liability under the statute against
the directors of a national bank, there would be a different
case. Considering that the evidence established all the
elements necessary for the recovery in an action for deceit,
the' court rendered judgment against defendants (plaintiffs in error) for the sum of $4,800 and interest.
.The Appellate Division, where the case was carried by
defendants, and also the Court of Appeals, gave a broader

THOMAS v. TAYLOR.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effect to the action, and decided that its requirements
under the common law of the State coincided with the
requirements of the statutes of the United States, and
satisfied the measure of responsibility of those statutes as
expressed in Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158.
"The case," the court said, "both as to pleadings and
proofs, meets the statutory requirements."
The court, however, decided that by the realization of
$97,000 of the assets condemned by the Comptroller, defendant in error's stock was not a total loss, as found by
the trial cburt, but had a value of nearly $2,000, and
required him to stipulate to deduct from the judgment
the sum of $2,000 and interest, in which case the judgment so reduced was to be affirmed. The stipulation was
filed.
The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
"on opinion of Cochrane, J., in the Appellate Division."
We shall refer to the opinion as that of the Appellate
Division, although it was adopted by the Court of Appeals.
A consideration of the pleadings need not detain us long.
How the action should be denominated or regarded was
for the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals to
decide, and those courts, considering the laws of the State,
decided that it was the facts pleaded and not the technical
designation of the action which constituted grounds of
recovery; and we accept their decision. There is nothing
in the national banking laws which precludes such view.
Those laws are not concerned with the form of pleadings.
They only require that the rule of responsibility declared
by them shall be satisfied.
The attack made by the plaintiffs in error is as much
directed against the evidence as against the ruling of the
court, and it is well to consider the facts. They are stated
in a general way in the opinion of the Appellate Division'
as follows (124 App. Div. 53, 54):

OCTOBER TERM, 1911
Opinion of the Court.

224,U. S.

"The defendants [plaintiffs in error here] are directors
of the Citizens' National Bank organized under the
National Bank Law and doing business in the village of
Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Prior to March 1, 1904, the
Comptroller of the Currency informed the directors of
the bank by letter that certain specified assets, amounting
to $194,107.02, must be regarded as doubtful, and that
immediate steps should be taken for their collection or
removal from the bank. Of such letter the defendants had
knowledge. On April 8, 1904, pursuant to a call of the
Comptroller, a report of the condition of the bank at the
close of business on March 28, 1904, made in regular form,
verified by the cashier of the bank, and attested to ,be
correct by each of the defendants, was published as required by law. In such report were included as a part of
the resources of the bank the doubtful assets to which the
attention of the defendants had been called by the Comptroller. The report also stated that the capital stock of
the bank was $100,000; that there was a surplus of $50,000
and that there were undivided profits of $13,456.75.
This published report was not seen by plaintiff, but its
contents were communicated to him, and relying on the
same, he purchased in the early part of June, 1904, thirty
shares of the stock of said bank for the sum of $4,800.
On"June 27, 1904, the bank received notice from the
Comptroller that its capital had become totally impaired,
and that the same must be supplied by assessment upon
the stockholders. Immediately thereafter such assessment was ordered, and the plaintiff paid $3,000 on account
of the 'stock he had recently purchased."
All through the argument of plaintiffs in error runs the
insistence that the comm.on-law action of deceit does not
lie against the directors of a national bank and that the
only measure 'of their responsibility is laid down in the
national banking laws. This is admitted. It-was conceded by the Appellate Division as having been established

THOMAS v. TAYLOR.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, and the
question in the case comes to the simple one, whether the
Appellate Division rightly decided that the findings in
the case at bar satisfied the test of liability declared in
the Yates Case.
In that case a broad consideration of the national banking laws was given, and it was deduced from them that
the report which § 5211 of the Revised Statutes required
must contain a "'true"' statement of the condition of
the bank and that "the making and publishing of a~false
report is prohibited." These, however, it was said, were
implications but. that the liability of the directors was fixed
by the express provisions of the laws, and its extent was
measured "by the promise not to 'knowingly violate, or
willingly permit to be violated, any of the provisions of'
the Title relating to national banks.
This test is the foundation of the action. The complaint charges plaintiffs in error with actual knowledge.
The allegation is that when plaintiffs in error attested
the report "they knew the same was not correct and
was false, and said statement was thus attested by them
with the intention of deceiving the public and, among
others, the plaintiff" (defendant in error). And the Appellate Division says (p. 56): "That the report was false
and known to the defendants to be false they do not deny,
nor do 'they attempt to explain their conduct." This
would seem like a finding of fact of knowledge of the
falsity of the report on the part of plaintiffs in error.
Indeed, in distinguishing the case from the Yates Case the
court did so on the ground that in that case "there had
been a recovery against directors without proof of scienter,
which proof the statute requires," and added: "Such proof
has been supplied in the present case."
But, not insisting on this, let us consider the argument
of plaintiffs in error. It is that the statement was not
voluntary, having been made under the command of the
VOL. ccxxiv-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

National Banking Act, and therefore an element of the
action of deceit is wanting; and that such act requires
"proof of something more than mere negligence and recklessness; nothing short of an intentional violation will
suffice." Yates v. Jones National Bank and other cases
are cited to support the contention. The contention goes
beyond what was said in Yates v. Jones National Bank.
The language there is "that where by law a responsibility
is made to arise from the violation of a statute knowingly,
proof of something more than negligence is required-that
is, that the violation must in effect be intentional." Not,
therefore, that as a condition of liability there should be
proof of something more than recklessness; not that there
should be an intentional violation, but a violation "in
effect" intentional. There is "in effect" an intentional
violation of a statute when one deliberately refuses to
examine that which it is his duty to examine. And such
was the conduct of plaintiffs in error in this case. They
had notice from the Comptroller of the Currency that
$194,000 of the items counted as assets of the bank were
doubtful and should. be collected or charged off. This
"was a direct warning to them," as the trial court said,
"by the bank examiner and Comptroller that assets to
nearly twice the amount of the capital stock were considered doubtful." They, notwithstanding, represented
the assets to be good. Such disregard of the direction of
the officers appointed by the law to examine the affairs
of the bank is a violation of the law. Their directions
must be observed. Their function and authority cannot
be preserved otherwise and be exercised to save the banks
from disaster and the public who deal with them and
support them from deception.
It is further urged that it is unjust to sustain against
plaintiffs in error the view of the action entertained by the
Appellate Division because they say that their defense in
the trial court was addressed and adapted to the case made

THOMAS v. TAYLOR.

224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against them. "Had the action," they say, "been considered as based upon a Federal statute, there were many
matters of defense which they could have interposed to
such a charge, but which they had a right to omit, and
were justified in omitting, at the time." In specialization of this it is said that they might have shown their
relation to the bank and the confidence they had and were
justified in having in the statements of certain of its officers, the cashier being instanced as one upon whom they
might have relied "to prepare and correct a legal statement." And they contend that by such showing they
would have been acquitted of having "'knowingly violated the statute.'"
This contention does not seem to have been urged in
any of the courts below. It is stated in the opinion of the
Appellate Division that "there is no pretense by defendants that they have been prejudiced by the *theory followed in the court below." It is somewhat late now to
urge it, but, however, we think it is without merit. There
was an issue of knowledge tendered by the pleadings,
and to sustain their side of the issue plaintiffs in error
offered testimony of the correctness of the books and to
show that the report was a true copy of them, as it was
alleged in their answer to be. No attempt was or is made
to show why the notice from the Comptroller was disregarded (we have seen it was known to plaintiffs in error
prior to the attesting of the report), except that they
point to the fact that $97,000 of the items mentioned by
the Comptroller were subsequently collected and that
they should have been given time to collect the other
assets. But the fact of the false representation remains,
and the assessment of 100 per cent upon the stock purchased by defendant in error, which increased the cost
of his stock $3,000.
The plaintiffs in error, indeed, are quite at pains to
show that a representation to be actionable for deceit

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

must not only be false, but must be known to be false.
In Other words, to quote from their brief, "To sustain an
action for deceit, not only falsity but knowledge of falsity
of representation must be shown," and for this New York
cases are cited. In another part of their argument they
say actual knowledge is not necessary, but that the action
may be supported if reckless inattention has made the
injury possible.
It is manifest, therefore, that plaintiffs in error did not
refrain from showing want of knowledge because of the
theory upon which the case was tried, and such showing
was obviously relevant to support that theory and the
defense that the requirement of the National Banking
Act had not been violated, which was their explicit contention.
Besides, judgment cannot be reversed upon the mere
suggestion that upon some other theory than that upon
which the case was tried evidence might have been introduced which might have changed the result. But we are
extending the discussion unnecessarily. The courts of
New York have decided that the requirements of the local
law of deceit are identical with what we have decided are
the requirements of the National Banking Act.
Judgment affirmed.

