HASKELL v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS CO.
224 U. S.

217

Syllabus.

HASKELL v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 914. Submitted February 23, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
Natural gas after severance from the soil being a commodity which
may be dealt in like other products of the earth and a legitimate
subject of interstate commerce, no State can prohibit its being transported in interstate commerce beyond the lines of the State, and the
act of Oklahoma attempting so to do is an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce as held in this case, 221 U. S. 229.
A State may by proper legislation regulate the removal from the earth
of natural gas by the owner thereof, but may not discriminate against
corporations doing an interstate business by denying them the right
to cross highways of the State while domestic corporations engaged
in the same business are permitted to use the highways.
Regulations in a state statute which may be valid as to individuals and
domestic corporations engaged in business wholly within the State
are not applicable to corporations engaged in doing the same business
in interstate commerce when the statute expressly forbids such commerce; this court will not therefore direct that regulations of that
nature become applicable to the latter class of such corporations
because the prohibition has been declared unconstitutional as an interference with interstate commerce.
A decree of this court must be read in view of the issues made and the
relief sought and granted; and a decree declaring a state statute unconstitutional so far as it prohibits, or is a burden upon, interstate
commerce will not be construed as preventing. the enforcement of
such legislation as is legitimately within the police power of the State
and not in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
172 Fed. Rep. 545, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the decree

entered in this case and reported in 221 U. S. 229, are stated
in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, for appellants.
Mr. E. L. Scarritt, Mr. John J. Jones, Mr. John G.
Johnson and Mr. D. T. Watson, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the

court.

The appellees in this case brought suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Oklahoma against the appellants, who were the Governor,
Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, County
Attorney and Deputy County Attorney of Washington
County, Corporation Commissioners and Mine Inspector,
of the State of Oklahoma, to enjoin the enforcement of
certain statutes of the State of Oklahoma which undertook
to prevent the complainants, now appellees, from transporting natural gas in interstate commerce beyond the
borders of the State. of Oklahoma. Upon final hearing in
that court such statutes were held void, as against the
Constitution of the United States, and the enforcement
thereof was enjoined. The case came to this court on appeal, and was argued and decided at the October Term,
1911, being reported in 221 U. S. 229.
On May 29, 1911, the last day of the term, a motion
was made in this court by the Attorney General of Oklahoma to modify the affirmance of the decree in the court
below. The parts objected to are found in the margin. 1
13. The court doth find the issues and equities herein in favor of the
plaintiff, and that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief prayed for in .the
bill of complaint herein; and doth find, adjudge and decree that chapter 67 of the Session Laws of the State of Oklahoma of 1907-8, passed
and enacted by the Legislature of said State of Oklahoma, and approved by the Governor of said State on the twenty-first day of December, 1907, and referred to in plaintiff's bill of complaint herein, is
unreasonable, unconstitutional, invalid and void and of no force or effect whatever.

HASKELL v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS CO.
224 U. S.

219

Opinion of the Court.

This motion was overruled, with leave to either party to
apply to the Circuit Court from whence the case came for
such modification of the decree as would make it conform
to the opinion of this court. Thereafter, the present proceeding was instituted by the Attorney General's filing a
motion in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Oklahoma for the modification of such
decree. The former complainants, defendants in this
proceeding, appeared and filed a motion in the nature of a
demurrer and also filed an answer in the case. The Circuit Court, treating the pleadings of the defendants as
in the nature of a demurrer, without hearing evidence in
support of or against the granting of the motion, and
without considering the affidavits or exhibits filed, over4. The temporary injunction heretofore ordered and entered herein
is hereby made permanent and perpetual, and the defendants and each
and every of them, their representatives, agents, servants, attorneys,
workmen, and employds, and all other persons whomsoever, advised,
inspired, influenced, incited or prompted by them, or either of them,
are hereby forever restrained and enjoined from committing any of the
acts complained of by complainant in its, or his, bill of complaint, and
from tearing up or destroying, or in any way interfering with the
laying, building, and construction of complainant's pipe lines, or any
of the pipe lines referred to in the prayer of complainant's bill of complaint, in, through, or out of the State of Oklahoma, by reason of any of
the ternms or provisions or contents of chapter 67 of the Sessions Laws
of 1907-1908 passed and enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Oklahoma, or by reason of any other claimed authority or statute of
said State, or common law right, rule of action or unwritten law whatsoever; and from in any Mnanner instituting, prosecuting, or conducting
any suits, or suing out any writs of process in any of the state courts of
the State of Oklahoma against the complainants, or any one representing it, or him, for the purpose of. enjoining, restraining or interfering
with either of them in the laying, building, construction, maintenance
or operation of any gas pipe line either under the authority of said
Legislative act contained in said chapter 67 of the Session Laws of
Oklahoma 1907-8 above referred to, or under any other law or statute
of the State of Oklahoma, or under any common law right, rule of
action, or unwritten law of the State of Oklahoma.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

ruled the same and orderea the mandate of this court,

affirming the former decree, to be spread upon the records.
Thereupon this appeal was prosecuted.
In order to properly consider this motion it is necessary
to notice the holding in the case in 221 U. S., supra. The
original proceeding was brought to enjoin the officers of
the State of Oklahoma from preventing the carriage in
interstate commerce beyond the lines of the State of
natural gas which had been severed from the earth by the
owners of such gas, and particularly to enjoin the enforcement of a certain statute of the State passed in 1907,
known as chapter 67 of the Session Laws of Oklahoma,
1907-08, which is inserted in full in the margin of the report of the case in 221 U. S., at page 239. This court held
that natural gas after severance is a commodity which
migih u dealt in like other products of the earth, as coal
and other minerals, and is a legitimate subject of interstate commerce; and that no State by such laws as were
involved in the case can prohibit its transportation in in-

terstate commerce beyond the lines of that State. The
court held, after considering and construing the provisions
of the act of 1907, that it was, upon its face, a law undertaking to prohibit the transmission or transportation in
interstate commerce of natural gas to points beyond the
State; that it was an unconstitutional interference with
the rights of the complainants, who were legitimately engaged in that commerce, and that therefore the act was
null and void.

In the course of the opinion the court recognized the
right of the State by proper legislation to regulate the
removal from the earth of natural gas by the owner thereof,
so as to prevent its undue waste, but maintained the decree of the court below, declaring this particular act unconstitutional, upon the grounds of its prohibitory character in attempting to prevent the transmission from the
State through the pipe lines of the complainants of a

HASKELL v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS CO.
224 U. S.

221

Opinion of the Court.

legitimate subject of interstate commerce. As to the
provisions of the statute concerning the right to use the
highways of the State, the court declined to discuss the
extent of the rights of public or private ownership therein
in the State of Oklahoma, but placed the decision in this
respect upon the manifest attempt to discriminate against
the appellees, engaged in interstate commerce, in giving
to domestic corporations engaged in intrastate transportation of natural gas the right to the use of the highwayseven longitudinally-while denying to corporations transporting the gas in interstate commerce the right to pass
under or over them, and this in the face of the admission in
the pleadings that the greater use given to domestic corporations is no obstruction to the highways.
The particular parts of the Oklahoma act of 1907 which
it is now contended should be excepted from the operation
of the decree are comprised in §§ 5, 6 and 7 of chapter 67,
which read as follows:
"SEC. 5. The laying, constructing, building and maintaining a gas pipe line or lines for the transportation or
transmission of natural gas along, over, under, across, or
through the highways, roads, bridges, streets, or alleys in
this State, or of any county, city, municipal corporation
or any other public or private premises within this State
is hereby declared an additional burden upon said highway, bridge, road, street or alley, and any other private,
or public premises may only be done when the right is
grapted by express charter from the State and shall not
be constructed, maintained, or operated until all damages
to adjacent owners are ascertained and paid as provided
by law.
"SEC. 6. All pipe lines for the transportation or transmission of natural gas in this State shall be laid under the
direction and inspection of proper persons skilled in such
business to be designated by the chief mining inspector
for such duty, and the expenses of such inspection and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

supervision shall be borne and paid for by the parties laying and constructing such pipe lines for the transportation
or transmission of natural gas.
"SEC. 7. No pipe line for the transportation or transmission of natural gas shall be subjected to a greater pressure than three hundred pounds to the square inch, except
for the purpose of testing such lines, and gas pumps shall
not be used on any gas pipe lines for the transportation or
transmission of natural gas or used on or in any gas well
within this State;" and also in the act of March 27, 1909,
Compiled Laws of Oklahoma, 1909, Art. 3, c. 75, § 11, regulating domestic corporations, which prohibits the use of
pumps or other artificial means in the transmission of gas,
when used to the injury of other corporations, consumers
and producers, producing or consuming natural gas in the
same gas district.
It is contended for the appellants herein that each and
all of these sections of the law are constitutionally valid
and can be enforced consistently with the opinion of this
court when the case was here upon its merits. Without
entering upon a discussion of these sections, it is sufficient
to say that in so far as they are part of the statute, the
main and controlling purpose of which was to prohibit
the transportation of natural gas in the lawful channels of
interstate commerce, they were for that reason condemned
and held void by the former opinion of this court affirming
the Circuit Court.
Furthermore, if the laws named (§§ 5, 6 and 7 of the
act of 1907 and the act of March 27, 1909) might be valid
as statutory regulations, as to individuals and domestic
corporations engaged in transporting gas wholly within
the State, they are not, by the very terms of these statutes,
made applicable to foreign corporations, such as the defendants, engaged in interstate commerce. Such corporations and such commerce are forbidden by the act. We
see, therefore, no reason to modify the decree so as to ex-

HASKELL v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS CO.

223

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

cept from its provisions the sections of the act of 1907 and
the act of 1909 and thus apply them to those which the
act itself excludes.
It is furthermore objected that that part of the decree
which undertakes to enjoin not only the execution of the
statute law of Oklahoma, chapter 67, in controversy, but
prevents interference with the pipe lines of complainants
"by reason of any other claimed authority or statute of
said State, or common law right, rule of action or unwritten
law whatsoever; and from in any manner instituting,
prosecuting, or conducting any suits, or suing out any
writs of process in any of the State courts of the State of
under the authority of said legisOklahoma . .
lative'act

.

.

.

or under any other law or statute of

the State of Oklahoma, or under any common law right,
rule of action, or unwritten law of the State of Oklahoma,"
is so broad as to prevent the State from enforcing any of its
lawful enactments at any time passed or to be passed
under authority of the State or from taking any action
whatsoever for protecting the lawful authority of the
Commonwealth. But the decree must be read in view of
the issues made and the relief sought and granted. Looking to the pleadings and reading the opinion of this court
in the case when it was considered upon its merits, and
thus construing the decree, we are of opinion that it cannot
be given any such broad construction as is intimated by
the Attorney General, and will not prevent the enforcement of legitimate legislation of the State of Oklahoma, if
such is passed in the exercise of its police powers, and not
conflicting with rights protected by the Federal Constitution. As we have said, this court in its decision affirmed
the right of the complainants, in the conduct of interstate
commerce, to take natural gas out of the State, and declared that a State could not prohibit the transportation of
such product beyond its borders and that the legislative
act in question was an act the main purpose and effect of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

which were to prohibit the exercise of lawful rights secured
by the Federal Constitution.
Construing the decree as we do, we think there is no
occasion to modify its terms. The order in this proceeding
will, therefore, be
Affirmed.

JOHNSON v. WASHINGTON LOAN & TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 40. Argued December 8, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.
A will contained the following provision: "It is my will and desire that
my said homestead shall be kept and continued as the home and
,residence of my daughters so long as they shall remain single and
unmarried. I therefore first after the death of my wife will and devise the said estate to my said daughters being single and unmarried
and to the survivor and survivors of them so long as they shall be
and remain single and unmarried and on the death or marriage of
the last of them then I direct that the said estate shall be sold by my
executors and the proceeds thereof be distributed by my said executors among my daughters living at my death and their children and
descendants (per,stirpes)."
The testator had three sons and five daughters, all of whom were living
when the will was made. The will contained provisions for testator's
wife and sons. Four of the daughters married and had children;
only one of them married before testator's death, and her children were born subsequently. One daughter remained single and
survived all her sisters. Nine years after testator's death, the widow
having also died, a decree was entered in a suit in which the daughters
alone were parties, directing that the property be sold and proceeds
divided among the daughters. In a suit brought subsequently by
a purchaser to quiet title against claims of grandchildren of the
testator, held that:

