LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 649
224 U.S.

Syllabus.

CITY OF LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL PROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 197. Argued March 7, 8, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.
Under the then constitution of Kentucky, in 1886, the legislature had
the sole right to create corporations and grant franchises to use the
streets of municipalities; a charter granted by the State, subject to
conditions to be imposed by the municipality, became, after the
acceptance of the conditions, a grant, not of the municipality but
of the State, ard one which cannot be impaired by an ordinance
made by the municipality.
The new constitution of 1891, conferring upon municipalities the right
to grant street franchises, and the later statute repealing special
corporate'privileges, did not and could not, repeal rights vested in
corporations nor relieve them of the burdens imposed by prior
charter contract.
The constitution of Kentucky of 1891, while limiting the power to sell
franchises in the future, distinctly protected previously granted
charter rights under which work had in good faith been begun.
While franchises to be are not transferable without express authority,
franchises to have and to hold and to use are contractual and proprietary and can be transferred; and, held in this case, that the
franchise granted to a telephone company was property, taxable
and alienable under the conditions on which it was granted, and,
under the contract clause of the Constitution, could not be abrogated as against a transferee whose rights had been recognized by
the municipality.
Permitting the transferee of a franchise to act thereunder and expend
large sums of money and exacting from it a bond to comply with the
conditions of the franchise will operate to estop a municipality from
denying that the franchise was transferable and the transferee had
succeeded.to all the rights of the transferring corporation.
Where the State, and not a municipality, has granted an assignable
right in perpetuity to use the streets of that municipality, the grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

is not affected by the status of the city being changed so to give it
the greater rights than when the grant was made.
In construing the duration of a telephone franchise, the nature of the
system to be operated must be considered as well as the facts that
the necessary structures are permanent in nature and require large
investments, and that revocation of the franchise at will would
operate to nullify it and defeat the purpose of the State to' procure
the system desired; and so held that the legislative grant made prior
to the adoption of its present constitution by the State of Kentucky
to a telephone company to use the streets of Louisville was one in
perpetuity, was assignable and could not be revoked by a subsequent
ordinance of the city of Louisville as against the assignee of the
original corporation.

ON April 3, 1886 (Laws 1885-6, c. 511, p. 1174), the
legislature of Kentucky chartered the Ohio Valley Telephone Company, fixing no limit to its corporat.e existence.
Its principal office was to be at Louisville, but the company was empowered to construct and maintain within the
State and elsewhere telephone lines, exchanges and systems, and authorized "to purchase or to acquire and dispose of real estate, apparatus, patents, licenses, rights and
franchises relating to such business; to borrow money, and
to issue and sell bonds and to secure the payment of the
same by a mortgage on all the property of the company,
franchises, easements, rights.
and on any of its .
of way and privileges . . ." In § 5 it was enacted
that "The said company may construct, equip and maintain said telephone systems and exchanges, erect poles and
string wires thereon, and operate its telephone lines over,
along or under any highway, street or alley in the sity of
Louisville, with and by the consent of the General Council
of said city." On August 17, 1886, the city council passed
an ordinance which, after reciting this section of the charter, ordained that the act of the legislature above mentioned, so far as it refers to the use of the streets of Louisville, "is hereby ratified and confirmed and the right is
hereby granted and confirmed to the said Ohio Valley

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 651
224 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Telephone Company, its successors and assigns, to maintain a telephone system, and to erect poles and string
wires thereon; . .. . and to operate its telephone
lines over, along or under any street, avenue, alley or sidewalk in the city of Louisville." There were also provisions
in this ordinance regulating the manner of erecting poles
and stringing wires in the street, and requiring the company to carry the fire and police wires of the city free of
charge, and to give a bond in the sum of $50,000, with
surety, to save the city harmless against any damage
caused by the opening of any street for telephone purposes. This bond was to be renewed from time to time as
required by the city. It was declared that nothing in the
ordinance should be construed to give the Ohio Valley
Telephone Company, its successors or assigns, any exclusive right in the streets.
The ordinance was accepted, the $50,000 bond was
given, and the Ohio Valley Telephone Company erected
poles, strung wires, and maintained a telephone exchange
in the city of Louisville until January 27, 1900, when it
consolidated with the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company. By virtue of the Kentucky statute then
of force, a new corporation was created under the name of
the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company, and
the defendant in error was thereafter vested with all the
i'property ....
of the constituent companies, without deed or- transfer, and bound for their debts and liabilities." The statute, at that time, was silent as to the
transfer of "franchises,' but in 1902 (Ky. Stat. 1909,
§ 556) it was amended so as to provide that upon the filing of the certificate the consolidated company should be
vested "with all the rights, privileges, franchises, exemptions, property, business, credits, assets and effects of the
corporations. "
constituent
Upon this consolidation on January 27, 1900, the
Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company entered into

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

224 U. S.

possession of all the property of the Ohio Valley Telephone
Company and operated the plant, poles and wires in Louisville until April 7, 1902, when the city council passed an
ordinance, that the Cumberland Company should execute
a bond for $50,000, as required of the Ohio Valley Telephone Company under the ordinance of August 17, 1886.
This was done, and, on June 2, 1902, the council passed
a resolution that "the bond of the Cumberland Telephone
and Telegraph Company, successor of the Ohio Valley
Telephone Company, principal, and the American Bonding Company, of Baltimore city, as surety, be and the
same is hereby accepted and approved, and the Ohio
Valley Telephone Company, and its sureties, are hereby
relieved from all liability under their bond of August 28,
1886."
The Cumberland Company fully complied with the
agreement as to carrying the police and fire wires of the
city free of charge, greatly enlarged the telephone system
in the city, and, at an expense of more than a million
dollars, improved the plant and trebled the number of
subscribers, although there was in the city another telephone company with a large number of patrons.
In 1908 a difference arose between the city and the
company, the city claiming that the company's methods
were dictatorial and oppressive, that it rendered poor
service at high rates and was guilty of discrimination
among its patrons. This the company denied, claiming
that its service was good, its rates were low and that
what was called discrimination consisted in different rates
for different classes of service open on equal terms to all
members of the public alike.
No proceedings of any sort were instituted to decide the
merits of this controversy, or to secure appropriate relief
if, after a hearing, the charges were found to be true. But,
apparently with the view of having only one telephone
system, an ordinance was submitted to the City Council

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 653
224 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of Louisville in 1908 providing for the creation of a conprehensive telephone system, repealing all existing rights
and granting a new franchise, which was to be sold to the
highest bidder.
The Cumberland Company gave notice that it would
rely on its existing contract to use the streets, and would
not be a bidder at the proposed sale. Thereupon this
ordinance was withdrawn, and another introduced and
passed, by which the city, on January 23, 1909, repealed
the ordinance of August 17, 1886, under which the Ohio
Valley Telephone Company had erected poles, strung
wires, and conducted a telephone system.
The Cumberland Company thereupon filed its bill in
the United States Circuit Court for the Western District
of Kentucky, setting out the facts above outlined, alleging that it was the successor to the Ohio Valley Telephone
Company, which, in reliance upon the ordinance of August 17, 1886, had erected a telephone system; that the
Cumberland Company, as its successor under the terms
of the consolidation act, and in accordance-with the contract between the city and the Ohio Valley Telephone
Company, carried on the telephone business and does. now
carry upon its poles and underground conduits the fire
alarm and police wires of the city free of charge, which
wires have been and now are daily used by the city in
the conduct of its police and fire departments; that the
Cumberland Company has largely extended and improved
the plant, appliances and business, and in doing so has
expended $1,700,000, "all of which was done upon the
faith of and in reliance upon the said ordinance." It alleged that the repealing ordinance of 1909 impaired the
obligation of its contract and deprived the company of its
business and property without due process of law, and
that, unless enjoined, the city would remove the poles and
wires, and destroy the company's business, to its irreparable damage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

224 U. S.

A temporary injunction was granted, and the city's
demurrer to the bill for want of equity was overruled. The
case was referred to a Master to take testimony as to the
extent of the discrimination and other matters as to which
the city made complaint. On consideration of his report
the court said: "We find nothing in the answer of the
defendant nor in the large mass of testimony heard on the
issues made by the pleadings which should in any way
change the views expressed in passing on the demurrer
and the motion for a temporary injunction." He thereupon entered a final decree making the injunction permanent. The city appealed, alleging generally that the
court erred in overruling the demurrer and in granting the
injunction. It'specifically alleges that the court erred in
holding (1) that the charter granted to the Ohio Valley
Telephone Company the right, with the consent of the
city, to operate a telephone system which could not be
repealed by the city council; (2) that the ordinance of
August 17, 1886, constituted a valid and binding contract
between the city and the company, which could not be
repealed by the council; (3) that upon the consolidation of
the Ohio Valley Telephone Company with the Cumberland
Telephone and Telegraph Company all the rights of the
former under its charter and the ordinance passed to and
are now owned by and vested in the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company; and (4) that the ordinance of January 23, 1909, repealing that of August 17,
1886, was void and of no effect.
Mr. Clayton B. Blakey and Mr. Huston Quin, with whom
Mr. Joseph S. Lawton was on the brief, for appellant:
. Power to grant a franchise does not exist in a city
unless
expressly conferred. Nellis on Street Railways, § 23;
Louisville Railway Co. v. Louisville, 8 Bush, 415; East
Tennessee Tel. Co. v. Russellville, 106 Kentucky, 669;
Henderson v. Covington, 14 Bush, 312.

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 655
224 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

While a valid franchise authorizing a telephone company
to occupy the streets of a city entitles such telephone company to an absolute and exclusive appropriation of that
space in the streets which is occupied by its telephone
poles, St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 97, where
a telephone company acquires from the State authority
'to use the streets of a city by and with the consent of the
city, its franchise to use such streets is acquired from the
State.
Under such conditions the grant from the municipality is
a mere revbcable license. Booth on Street Railways, § 10;
Nellis on Street Railways, § 20; Water Co. v. Boise City,
123 Fed. Rep. 232; Detroit Citizens' R. Co. v. Detroit Ry.
Co., 171 U. S. 48; S. C., 110 Michigan, 384; Detroitv. City
Railway Co., 56 Fed. Rep. 867; Wabash Railroad Co. v.
Defiance, 167 U. S. 88; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Akron, 90
N. E. Rep. (Ohio) 40; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400;
Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 273; Chicago
Ry. Co. v. People, 73 Illinois, 541, 547; People v. Chicago
Tel. Co., 220 Illinois, 338; Parkhurstv. Salem, 32 Pac. Rep.
(Oregon) 304; Gas Co. v. Parkersburg,30 W. Va. 435; New'
Haven Co. v. Hanersley, 104 U. S. 1.
A franchise granted by a city silent as to the length of
time during which it may be exercised is not a perpetual
franchise to occupy the streets unless the city had express
authority to grant a perpetual franchise. Cases supra and
Linden v. LaRue, 23 How. 435; Charles River Bridge, 11
Pet. 419; Fanning v. Gregaire, 16 H6w. 528; Wright v.
Nagel, 101 U. S. 791; Buffalo & J. R. R. Co. v. Faulkner,
103 U. S. 821; Los Angeles v. Water Co., 177 U. S. 571;
Mills v. St. Clair County, 8 How. 569.
A grant of a franchise irrevocable and permanent in
its nature made by a city without express authority
from the legislature to make such grant is void. Milhau
v. Sharp, 27 N. Y. 611; West End &c. Co. v. Atlantic
&c. Co., 49 Georgia, 151, 155; New York v. Mayor, 3

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

224 U. S.

Duer, 119; Blaschko v. Wurster, 156 N. Y. 432; Ampt.
v. Cincinnati, 21 0. Cir. Ct. 300; Birmingham v. St. R.
Co., 79 Alabama, 465, 473; Westminster Water Co. v. City
(Md., 1904), 56 Ati. Rep. 990; Central TransportationCo.
v. Pullman P. C. Co., 139 U. S. 24, 60.
A void act of a municipal body will not be validated by
the adoption of a new state constitution. East Tennessee
Tel. Co. v. Russellville, 106 Kentucky, 673.
When two corporations consolidate a new corporation
comes into existence which is eo instanti granted by the
State only such portion of the rights and privileges of the
constituent corporations as the State at the time had the
power to grant. Kentucky Statutes, § 566; Shields v.
Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Ferguson v. Meredith, 2 Wall. 25;
Atlantic & Gulf R. R. Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S.359; Maine
C. R. Co. v. Maine, 96 U. S.499; Keokuk & W. R. Co. v.
Missouri, 152 U. S. 301; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13
Wall. 190; Yazoo & M. V. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.1;
Wright v. Georgia Railroad Co., 216 U. S. 422; Shaw v.
Covington, 194 U. S.596.
All charters, franchises and special privileges granted by
the Kentucky legislature subsequent to 1856 are subject
to revocation. Louisville Water Co. v. Clark, 143 U. S.1;
Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S.331.
All franchises and special privileges granted by the
State of Kentucky prior to the adoption of the present
constitution and which were revocable remain subject to
revocation. Kentucky Constitution, § 3.
Before appellee came into existence the legislature of
Kentucky revoked the grant which it had made to the
Ohio Valley Telephone Company. Kentucky Statutes,

§573.
The legislature is powerless to revoke any franchise or
right which the appellee may have acquired to use the
streets of the city of Louisville. Kentucky Constitution,
§§ 59 and 60.

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 657
224 U. S.

Argument far Appellant.

The State of Kentucky has delegated to the city of
Louisville authority to revoke any franchise which the
appellee may have acquired to occupy the streets of the
city of Louisville. Kentucky Constitution, §§ 156, 163,
164, 199; Kentucky Statutes, §§ 2742, 2783, 2825.
The legislature had authority to delegate to the city
the right to revoke any franchise which the appellee may
have acquired to use the streets of the city of Louisville.
City Railway Co. v. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98; Mo. Pac.R. R.
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262.
All special privileges or grants made to corporations
prior to the adoption of the present constitution and inconsistent with the provisions of that constitution and the
laws made pursuant thereto are now repealed. Hager v.
Kentucky Title Co., 119 Kentucky, 50; Pearce v. Mason
County, 99 Kentucky, 357; McTigue v. Commonwealth, 99
Kentucky, 72.
Where a city gives its consent for a telephone company
to use its streets without limit as to time the right of such
telephone company to continue to use the streets expires'
when the charter of the city expires. Blair v. Chicago, 201
U. .S.485; People v. Chicago Tel. Co., 220 Illinois, 238;
Parsons v. Breed, 126 Kentucky, 765; Louisville v. Vreeland, 140 Kentucky, 404.
A city cannot convert a license into a contract by calling it a contract. St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S.
97;"Wabash R. R. Co. v. Defiance, 167 U. S.88.
A city may revoke a grant or a license without notice
to the grantee and without assigning reasons therefor.
Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 598; United States v. Des
Moines Nay. & R. Co., 142 U. S. 510.
Discrimination among its patrons gives a city ample
cause for revoking the franchise of the telephone company.
Wyman on Public Service Corp., chaps. 27, 28; Delaware
& S. Tel. Co. v. Kelly, 160 Fed. Rep. 517; Missouri v.
Bell Tel. Co., 23 Fed Rep. 541; Rudd v. New York, 143
VOL. ccxxiv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

U. S. 517; L. & N. v. Central Stock Yard, 97 S. W. Rep.
778.
Mr. William L. Granbery and Mr. Alexander Pope
Humphrey,with whom Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey, Jr.,
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
1. Under the present constitution of Kentucky street
franchises cannot be granted for longer than twenty years
and then only to the highest bidder, after public advertisement by the city authorities. But in 1886, when the Ohio
Valley Telephone Company was chartered, the legislature
not only had the sole right to create corporations and to
grant franchises but, without municipal consent, it could
have authorized the company to use any and all streets
in the city of Louisville. Instead, however, of exercising
this plenary power, the charter declared that the company
might maintain its telephone system, erect poles and
string wires over the streets and highways of the city,
with and by the consent of the General Council. These
provisions of the charter gave the municipality ample
authority to deal with the subject, and by virtue of this
statutory power it could have imposed terms, which the
company might have been unable or unwilling to acceptin which event the franchise granted by the State would
have been nugatory. But, when the assent was given the
condition precedent had been performed, the franchise
was perfected and could not thereafter be abrogated by
municipal action. For, while the city was given the authority to consent, the statute did not confer upon it the
power to withdraw that consent, and no attempt was made
to reserve such a right in the collateral contract contained
in those provisions of the ordinance relating to the com-

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 659
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany's giving a bond and carrying the police and fire wires
free of charge. If those or other terms of this independent
and separate contract had been broken by the Ohio Valley
Company or its successors, the city would have had its
cause of action. But the municipality could not by an
ordinance impair that contract nor revoke the rights
conferred. Those charter franchises had become fully
operative when the city's consent was given, and thereafter the company occupied the streets and conducted its
business, not under a license from the city of Louisville,
but by virtue of a grant from the State of Kentucky.
Such franchises granted by the legislature could not, of
course, be repealed, nullified or forfeited by any ordinance
of a General Council.
2. In 1891 a new constitution was adopted by the
State of Kentucky conferring upon municipalities the
right to grant street franchises, and later, under the reserve power, a statute was passed repealing all special
corporate privileges. It is claimed that in consequence
of these laws the street rights granted the Ohio Valley
Telephone Company have been withdrawn, or at least
made subject to municipal revocation. But we find in
the cited sections of the constitution (156, 163, 164 and
199) and the statutes (§§ 573, 2742, 2783 and 2825) nothing which sustains this contention, which, if correct,
would lead to the conclusion that all structures theretofore lawfully placed in city streets by water, light, telephone, railway and other public utility companies became
nuisances, and as such were removable after September, 1898, to the damage of the community at large and the
destruction of property of immense value dedicated to
public purposes. The general repeal of all special privileges, referred to in the statute, related to exclusive grants,
tax exemptions, monopolies and similar immunities (Ky.
Stat. 573; Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231), and not
to those corporate powers and property rights needed

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

and conferred in order to enable the company to perform
the duties for which it had been organized. For, while
this charter conferred privileges, it also created obligations
in favor of the public, and no attempt was made by the
general law to repeal the rights which had vested, nor to relieve the company of the burden which had been imposed.
3. The provisions of the constitution and statutes relied on as revoking licenses from municipalities or as conferring power upon cities to repeal grants are in the
main prospective and do not in any event support the
claim'that the General Council can destroy the rights
granted the Ohio Valley Telephone Company, whether
they be treated as having been acquired under the charter
of April 3, 1886, or under the ordinance of August 17,
1886. On the contrary, the constitution of 1891, while
limiting for the future the power to sell street franchises,
distinctly protected the interests of those public utility
companies "whose charters have been heretofore granted,
conferring such rights, and work has in good faith been
begun thereunder." Inasmuch, therefore, as the cha ter
of the Ohio Valley Telephone Company was granted and
as the exchanges were in operation before the adoption of
the constitution, that company's rights are expressly preserved by the organic law of the State.
4. The Ohio Valley Company, thus owning the right
to use the streets for telephone purposes, was consolidated
on January 27, 1900, into the Cumberland Telephone and,
Telegraph Company, the defendant in error, and the
latter claims that, as successor, it acquired and now holds
these privileges. This is denied by the city on the ground
that while the statute, then of force, provided for the
transfer of the "property" of the constituent companies,
it was not until the amendment of 1902 that provision
was made by which their "franchises" could pass to the
consolidated company.
It is not necessary to determine whether that amendment

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 661
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was intended to supply an omission, remove a doubt or to
ratify the transfer and use under this and prior mergers.
City Railway Co. v. Citizens' Railroad Co., 166 U. S. 557,569.
For while franchises to be are not transferable without express authority, there are other franchises to have, to hold
and to use, which are contractual and proprietary in their
nature and which confer rights and privileges, which can
be sold wherever the company, as here, has power to dispose of its property. In the present case the Ohio Valley
Company was by its charter given authority to mortgage
and dispos6 of franchises. Among those thus held was the
right to use the streets in the city for the purpose necessary in conducting a telephone business. Such a street
franchise has been called by various names-an incorporeal
hereditament, an interest in land, an easement, a right of
way-but, howsoever designated, it is property. Detroit
v. Detroit Street Ry., 184 U. S. 368, 394; Louisville City
Ry. v. Louisville, 71 Kentucky (8 Bush), 534; West River
Bridge v. Dix, 6 How. 507, 534; Board of Morristown v.
East Tenn. Tel. Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 304, 307. Being property, it was taxable, alienable and transferable, and, as
property, passed to the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company under the express provisions of the Kentucky statute, which, as of force in 1900, declared that the
consolidated company should be "vested With all the
property, business, assets and effects of the constituent
companies, without deed or transfer, and bound for all
their contracts and liabilities."
That the street rights, however designated, passed to
the Cumberland Company is the natural and obvious
construction of the act. The plant and property of a
telephone company are useless when dissevered from the
streets, and there would, in effect, have been no property
out of which to pay the debts or with which to perform
the public duties imposed if the street rights of the constituent companies had not been transferred by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

statute to the consolidated company. The constitution
(§§ 199 and 200), in providing for the incorporation and
consolidation of telephone companies, evidently contemplated, as did the statute, that on this statutory union
there should be a transfer of that franchise, right of way
or property, which alone gave value to the plant, thereby
preserving the investment which had been made, for
purposes of private gain and public use. The city itself
so construed the general law, and thereupon demanded
from the Cumberland Company, as successor of the Ohio
Valley Company, the bond for $50,000 called for in the
ordinance of August 17, 1886. The company, in pursuance
of the collateral contract contained in the ordinance, and
of the requirements of the consolidation statute, carried
the police and fire wires of the city free of charge. With
the knowledge and acquiescence of the city, and in reliance
on the statutory conveyance of the street rights, the
Cumberland Company, at an expense of more than a
million dollars, erected many new poles, laid additional
conduits and strung miles of wire in extending and improving the telephone system. This action of the council
could not enlarge the charter grant, but did operate to
estop the city (Boone County v. Burlington & M. R. R.,
139 U. S. 684, 693) from claiming that the ordinance was
inoperative and it also prevented the Council from denying that the Cumberland Company had succeeded to
every right and obligation of the Ohio Valley Company.
5. The plaintiff in error makes the further contention
that its general demurrer should have been sustained and
the bill dismissed because the original grant of street
rights, having been indefinite as to time, was either void
ab initio, or revocable at the will of the General Council,
or that it expired in 1893 when (Ky. Stat., 1909, § 2742)
Louisville was made a city of the first class with new and
enlarged power. In support of this proposition numerous

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO. 663
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decisions are cited; in some of which it appeared that a
State had chartered a public utility corporation, but the
city by ordinance had given an exclusive or perpetual
grant of a street franchise which was held to be void
because made in excess of the statutory power possessed
by the municipality. In others the company had been
incorporated for thirty years, and the street right was
held to have been granted only for that limited period.
In others it was decided that such privileges terminated
with the corporate existence of the municipality through
whose streets the rails and tracks were to be laid. Detroit
Citizens' Street Railway v. Detroit Railway, 171 U. S,. 48,
54; St. Clair County Turnpike Co. v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63;
Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400; 3 Dill., Mun. Corp.,
§§ 1265-1269.
None of these decisions are applicable to a case like the
present, where the Ohio Valley Telephone Company, with
a perpetual charter, has received, not from the municipality, but from the State of Kentucky, the grant of an
assignable right to use the streets of a city which remains
the same legal entity, although by a later statute it has
been put in the first class and given greater municipal
powers. Vilas v. Manila, 220 U. S. 345, 361.
In considering the duration of such a franchise it is
necessary to consider that a telephone system cannot be
operated without the use of poles, conduits, wires and
fixtures. These structures are permanent in their nature
and require a large investment for their erection and construction. To say that the right to maintain these appliances was only a license, which could be revoked at
will, would operate to nullify the charter itself, and thus
defeat the State's purpose to secure a telephone system
for public use. For, manifestly, no one would have been
willing to incur the heavy expense of installing these necessary and costly fixures if they were removable at will
of the city and the utility and value of the entire plant

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

be thereby destroyed. Such a construction of the charter
cannot be supported, either from a practical or technical
standpoint.
This grant was not at will, nor for years, nor for the
life of the city. Neither was it made terminable upon the
happening of a future event, but it was a necessary and
integral part of the other franchises conferred upon the
company, all of which were perpetual and none of which
could be exercised without this essential right to use the
streets. The duration of the public business in which
these permanent structures were to be used, the express
provision that franchises could be mortgaged and sold,
the nature of the grant, and the terms of the charter as a
whole, compel a holding that the State of Kentucky conferred upon the Ohio Valley Telephone Company the right
to use the streets to the extent and for the period necessary
to enable the company to perform the perpetual obligation to maintain and conduct a telephone system in the
city of Louisville. Such has been the uniform'holding
of courts construing similar grants to like corporations.
Milhau v. Sharp, 27 N. Y. 611 (1863); Hudson Telephone
Co. v. Jersey City, 49 N. J. L. 303; Mobile v. L. & N. R. R.,
84 Alabama, 122; Seattle v. Columbia & P. S. R. R., 6
Washington, 379, 392; People v. Deehan, 153 N_ Y. 528.
The earlier cases are reviewed in Detroit St. R. R. v. Detroit,
64 Fed. Rep. 628, 634, which was cited with approval in
Detroit v. Detroit St. R. R., 184 U. S. 368, 395, this
court there saying that "Where the grant to a corporation of a franchise to construct and operate its road is
not, by its terms, limited and revocable, the grant is in
fee."
The right to conduct a telephone exchange and to use
the streets of the city of Louisville, which had been vested
by law in the Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Company, could not bb impaired or forfeited by an ordinance
of the General Council; nor had it expired by lapse of

CHOATE v. TRAPP.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

time or under any provision of law when the bill was
filed, The Circuit Court properly made the injunction
permanent, and its decree is
Affirmed.

CHOATE v. TRAPP, SECRETARY OF THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

OKL-AHOMA.
No. 809. Argued February 23, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.
There is a broad distinction between the power to abrogate a statute
and to destroy rights acquired under it; and while Congress, under
its plenary power over Indian tribes, can amend or repeal an agreement by a later statute, it cannot destroy actually existing individual
rights of property acquired under a former statute or agreement.
The individual Choctaw and Chickasaw Indian had no title or enforcible right in tribal property, but Congress recognized his equitable interest therein in the Curtis Act of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat.
505, and offered to give to him in consideration of his consenting to the *distribution an allotment of non-taxable land; and the
acceptance of the patent by each member of the tribe was on the
consideration of relinquishment of his interest in the unallotted
tribal property.
A patent for an Indian allotment containing an agreement assenting
to the plan of distribution, like a deed poll, bound the grantee,
although not- signed by him, and the benefits constituted the consideration for the rights waived.
The tax exemption in the patents for Indian allotments under the
Curtis Act was not a mere safeguard against alienation, and did not
fall with the removal of restrictions from alienation by the act of
May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312.
The removal of restrictions on alienation of Indian allotments falls
withi4 the power of Congress to regulate Indian affairs, but the provision for non-taxation is a property right and not subject to action
by Congress.

