OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion. of the Court.

224 U. S.

questions involved are disposed of by the decision in
Choate v. Trapp, ante, p. 665. The judgment, therefore,
is reversed and the case remanded with directions for
further proceedings not inconsistent with that opinion.
Reversed.

ENGLISH

v. RICHARDSON, TREASURER
TULSA COUNTY, OKLAHOMA.

OF

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF'
OKLAHOMA,
No. 559.

Argued February 23, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

Decided on authority of Choate v. Trapp, ante, p. 665.
28 Oklahoma, 408, reversed.
-THE facts, which involve the taxability of Creek allotments in Oklahoma, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Willard L. Sturdevant, with whom Mr. Grant Foreman and Mr. M. L. Mott were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff holds a patent dated December 12, 1902.
It was issued to her as a member of the Creek Nation
when the tribal lands were divided in pursuance of the
same general policy as that discussed in Choate v. Trapp,
ante, p. 665. There were, however, a few differences. The
tax exemption covered only the homestead of forty acres,

ENGLISH v. RICHARDSON.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and there was a restriction on alienability for 21 years.
The patent, instead of being "framed in conformity with
the Agreement," as in the case of the Choctaws and Chickasaws, bore on its face a provision that the land should
be non-taxable; the language of the Agreement incorporated in the act of Congress, being that "Each citizen
shall select from his allotment forty acres of land .
as a homestead, which shall be and remain non-taxable,
inalienable and free from any encumbrance whatever for
21 years from the date of the deed therefor, and a separate
deed shall be issued to each allottee for his homestead,
in which this condition shall appear."
.These differences are not material. The right of plaintiff to the exemption granted by Congress is protected by
the Constitution on principles stated and applied in Choate
v. Trapp. The judgment dismissing her complaint is
therefore reversed and the case remanded for proceedings
not inconsistent with that opinion.
Reversed.

