OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 137, 144, c. 1876: "Provided further, That conveyances heretofore made by members of
any of the Five Civilized Tribes subsequent to the selection of allotment and subsequent to removal of restriction,
where patents thereafter issue, shall not be deemed or
held invalid solely because said conveyances were made
prior to issuance and recording or delivery of patent or
deed; but this shall not be held or construed as affecting
the validity or invalidity of any such conveyance, except as
hereinabove provided; and every deed executed before, or
for the making of which a contract or agreement was entered into before the removal of restrictions, be and the
same is hereby, declared void."
We are therefore of the opinion that the bill is without
equity as against the appellants for the reason that the
conveyances were not executed in violation of any restrictions imposed by Congress, and that the demurrer
should have been sustained upon this ground. It follows
that, with respect to the appellants, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed an that of the
Circuit Court affirmed.
It is so ordered.

GOAT v. UNITED STATES
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 405.

Argued October 12, 13, 1911.-Decided April 29, 1912.

Heckman v. United States, ante, p. 413, followed to effect that the
United States has capacity to maintain a suit in equity to set aside
conveyances of allotted lands made by allottee Indians in violation
of statutory restrictions.
The question in this case is, What are the restrictions in the case of
allotments to Seminole freedmen?

GOAT v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The relations of the United States to Seminole freedmen by treaties
and statutes reviewed, and held that the United States is entitled to
maintain an action to set aside all conveyances made by Seminole
freedmen of homestead lands, of surplus lands made by minor allottees, and by adult allottees if made prior to April 21, 1904; but
that such an action cannot be maintained as to conveyances made by
adult allottees after April 21, 1904.
179 Fed. Rep. 13, modified and affirmed as to this point.

THE facts, which involve the validity of certain conveyances of allotted lands made by Seminole Indians and
also the right of the United States to have such conveyances set aside, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. C. Stone, Mr. Robert J. Boone and Mr. S. T.
Bledsoe, with whom Mr. Geo. C. Crump, Mr. H. H. Rogers,
Mr. J. H. Maxey, Mr. J. H. Miley and Mr. B. B. Blaeney
were on the brief, for appellants.'
The Solicitor General and Mr. A. N. Frost and Mr. Harlow A. Leekley, Special Assistants to the Attorney General,
for the United States.'
MR. JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by this appeal is with respect to
the right of Seminole freedmen to convey the lands allotted
to them in severalty pursuant to the act of July 1, 1898,
c. 542, 30 Stat. 567. The United States sued to cancel
conveyances alleged to have been made contrary to the
statute. Demurrer to the bill was sustained by the Circuit Court, and its judgment was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. United States v. Allen, and similar
cases, 179 Fed. Rep. 13. So far as the demurrer contested
the capacity of the United States to bring a suit of this
character, the case stands upon the same footing, in all
See abstract of arguments in Heckman v. United States, ante, p. 413.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

material respects, as that of Heckman v. United States,
ante, p. 413, and the right of the United States to enforce such restrictions as may have been imposed upon
the alienation of the allotted lands is no longer open to
dispute.
The inquiry must be, What are the restrictions in the
case of allotments to Seminole freedmen, and have they
been violated?
As to each of the tracts of land in question, it was alleged:
"And your orator further shows that each of the tracts
of land hereinafter, in paragraph numbered six, described
is situated in the Eastern District of Oklahoma, and was,
at the time of the transactions of sale or incumbrance
mentioned in that paragraph, allotted lands of the members of the Seminole tribe of Indians, allotted to freedman
members of said tribe, and none were lands which had
been patented to individuals at the time of the transactions in question; that they were not lands of heirs of
allottees; that all contracts for the sale, disposition of any
of said allotments prior to the date of patent were expressly, declared by law, to be void; that this law applied
to all allotments of Seminole lands not inherited from
allottees; that accordingly, defendants had knowledge
and were, by said law, put upon inquiry and notice as to
the inalienability of said unfpatented lands, and had
notice accordingly that the particular tracts had not been
patented, any such patenting being a matter of public
record and of public action; that moreover, the unpatented condition of said allotted lands was notorious
and of common knowledge, since none of the Seminole
allotted lands have been patented; and that other public
laws of Congress and public agreements imposed further
restrictions upon the transfer and incumbrance of the
particular lands herein, in paragraph six, described, belonging to the particular class of tribal members herein

GOAT v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mentioned, in addition to those arising from the absence
of patenting, and these restrictions were known, notified
and notorious in like manner."
While it appears that a large number of conveyances are
involved in the suit, only two are specifically described in
the printed record on this appeal, the descriptions of the
others, as set forth in the bill, having been omitted by
stipulation. In the two cases particularly mentioned, the
conveyances were made in August, 1906, and March, 1907.
It is not stated whether the lands, embraced therein, were
homestead or so-called "surplus" lands, but it is conceded
in argument that they were of the latter class. The
Government says in its brief: "In the printed record it
happens that the transactions set out include only lands
allotted other than homestead, but other transactions
complained of in the bill, omitted from the printed record
for the sake of brevity, include lands allotted as homesteads as well." The broad ground is taken by the
Government that all conveyances of the lands allotted to'
members of the Seminole tribe are void because made
prior to the date of patent.
By the treaty of 1832 (7 Stat. 368) the Seminoles relinquished to the United States their claim to the lands
then occupied in the territory of Florida and agreed to
emigrate to the lands assigned to the Creeks west of the
Mississippi, it being understood that an additional extent
of territory proportioned to their numbers should "be
added to the Creek country," and that they should be received "as a constituent part of the Creek Nation." Provision to this effect was made in the Creek treaty of 1833
(7 Stat. 417, 419), which was satisfactory to the Seminoles,
and territory was assigned to them accordingly. 7 Stat.
423. There were further agreements in 1845 (9 Stat. 821)
and in 1856 (11 Stat. 699). In 1866 (14 Stat. 755), lands
which had been ceded to the Seminoles by the Creeks
were conveyed to the United States at a stipulated price;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

and the United States, having obtained from the Creeks
the westerly half of their lands, granted to the Seminoles
a tract of 200,000 acres, which was to constitute the
national domain of the latter. Subsequently, the United
States purchased for the Seminoles another tract, on the
east, consisting of 175,000 acres. Acts of March 3, 1873,
17 Stat. 626; August 5, 1882, 22 Stat. 257, 265, c. 390.
It was provided in the treaty of 1866, inasmuch as there
were among the Seminoles "many persons of African
descent and blood, who have no interest or property in
the soil and no recognized civil rights," that "these persons and their descendants, and such other of the same
race as shall be permitted by said nation to settle there,
shall have and enjoy all the rights of native citizens, and
the laws of said nation shall be equally binding upon all
persons of whatever race or color who may be adopted as
citizens or members of said tribe."
Pursuant to the policy of allotting tribal lands among
the individual members of the Five Civilized Tribes (act
of March 3, 1893, c. 209, 27 Stat. 645), an agreement was
made by the Daw6s Commission with the Seminoles on
December 16, 1897, which was ratified by the act of
July 1, 1898. This agreement provided (30 Stat. 567,
c. 542):
"All lands belonging to the Seminole tribe of Indians
shall be divided into three classes, designated as first,
second, and third class; the first class to be appraised at
five dollars, the second class at two dollars and fifty cents,
and the third class at one dollar and twenty-five cents per
acre, and the same shall be divided among the members of
the tribe so that each shall have an equal share thereof in
value, so far as may be, the location and fertility of the
soil considered; giving to each the right to select his
allotment so as to include any improvements thereon,
owned by him at the time; and each allottee shall have
the sole right of occupancy of the land so allotted to him,

GOAT v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

during the existence of the present tribal government,
and until the members of said tribe shall have become
citizens of the United States. Such allotment shall be
made under the direction and supervision of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes in connection with a
representative appointed by the tribal government; and
the chairman of said Commission shall execute and deliver to each allottee a certifica.te describing therein the
land allotted to him.
"All contracts for sale, disposition, or encumbrance of
any part of any allotment made prior to date of patent
shall be void."
Leases by allottees were permitted upon certain conditions.
The deeds of the allotted lands were to be executed at
the termination of the tribal government and each allottee
was to designate forty acres which by the terms of the
deed should be inalienable and nontaxable as a homestead
in perpetuity. The provision on this subject was as follows:
"When the tribal government shall cease to exist the
principal chief last elected by said tribe shall execute,
under his hand and the seal of the Nation, and deliver to
each allottee a deed conveying to him all the right, title,
and interest of the said Nation and the members thereof in
and to the lands so allotted to him, and the Secretary of
the Interior shall approve such deed, and the same shall
thereupon operate as relinquishment of the right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to the land embraced in said conveyance, and as a guarantee by the
United States of the title of said lands to the allottee; and
the acceptance of such deed by the allottee shall be a relinquishment of his title to and interest in all other lands
belonging to the tribe, except such as may have been
excepted from allotment and held in common for other
purposes. Each allottee shall designate one tract of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

forty acres, which shall, by the terms of the deed, be made
inalienable and nontaxable as a homestead in perpetuity."
A supplemental agreement was made with the Seminoles
on October 7, 1899, ratified on June 2, 1900 (31 Stat. 250,
c. 610), which provided for the enrollment of children born
to Seminole citizens to and including December 31, 1899,
and all Seminole citizens then living, and also that if any
member of the tribe should die after that date the lands,
money and other property to which he would be entitled
if living should descend to his heirs.
The act of March 3, 1903, c. 994, ยง8 (32 Stat. 982,
1008), contained the following provisions as to the duration of the tribal government, the execution, delivery and
recording of deeds and the inalienability of homesteads:
"SEc. 8. That the tribal government of the Seminole

Nation shall not continue longer than March fourth,
nineteen hundred and six: Provided; That the Secretary
of the Interior shall at the proper time furnish the principal chief with blank deeds necessary for all conveyances
mentioned in the agreement with the Seminole Nation
contained in the Act of July first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-eight (Thirtieth Statutes, page five hundred and
sixty-seven), and said principal chief shall execute and
deliver said deeds to the Indian allottees as required by
said Act, and the deeds for allotment, when duly executed
and approved, shall be recorded in the office of the Dawes
Commission prior to delivery and without expense to the
allottee until further legislation by Congress, and such
records shall have like effect as other public records:
Provided further, That the homestead referred to in said
Act shall be inalienable during the lifetime of the allottee,
not exceeding twenty-one years from the date of the deed
for the allotment. A separate deed shall be issued for
said homestead, and during the time the same is held by
the allottee it shall not be liable for any debt contracted by
the owner thereof."

GOAT v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The restriction upon the alienation of homestead lands
applied as well to the freedmen as to the other allottees;
but it was removed, with respect to the freedmen, by the
act of May 27, 1908, c. 199 (35 Stat. 312). This statute,
in fixing the status-after sixty days from the date of the
act-of the lands of allottees of the Five Civilized Tribes,
theretofore or thereafter allotted, provided: "All lands,
including homesteads, of said allottees enrolled as intermarried whites, as freedmen, and as mixed-blood Indians
having less than half Indian blood including minors shall
be free from all restrictions." The present bill was filed
on July 23, 1908, and the conveyances it assails were
executed before this provision of the act of 1908 became
operative. Previous conveyances were not validated by
the statute, but on the contrary it declared any attempted
alienation or incumbrance of allotted lands, prior to the
removal of restrictions, to be void. Section 5, Id. 313. It
follows that the instruments described in the bill, in so
far as they may have purported to convey homestead
lands, were executed in violation of law and the Government was entitled to have them set aside.
The "surplus" lands were embraced in the general restriction contained in the agreement of December 16,
1897, ratified by the act of July 1, 1898, that "all contracts for sale, disposition, or encumbrance of any part of
any allotment made prior to date of patent shall be void."
Apart from the provisions as to leases, this was the only
restriction upon the alienation of surplus lands imposed
by that agreement, and no .further restriction applicable
to the freedmen allottees was placed upon such lands by
subsequent statute.
The situation with respect to the Seminole allotments
may be briefly stated. The commissioners to the Five
Civilized Tribes found little difficulty in preparing the rolls
of the Seminoles or in making the allotments. The enrollment following the ratification of the agreement of
VOL. ccxxiv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion -of the Court.

224 U. S.

1897 was begun in July, 1898, and was finished in August
of that year. The rolls containing the additional names,
provision for which was made by the supplemental agreement, of 1899, were forwarded to the Department in December, 1900, and were approved by the Secretary of the
Interior on April 2, 1901. (Reports of Commission to
Five Civilized Tribes, 1900, p. 12; 1901, p. 30.) In June,
1901, the commission undertook the making of allotments
and this was practically completed at an early date. In
their report for 1903 (pp. 36, 37), the commissioners said:
"The last annual report of the Commission showed the
completion of allotment in the Seminole Nation, save as
to the recording of a small number of allotments, and the
issuance of certificates therefor, which was finished early
in the past year." Subsequently there were additional
allotments to after-born children in accordance with the
act of March 3, 1905. 33 Stat. 1048, 1071, c. 1479. As
already noted, the allottees were to receive their deeds on
the expiration of the tribal government which, by the act
of 1903, was not to continue longer than March 4, 1906.
By joint resolution of March 2, 1906, Congress provided
for the continuance of "the tribal existence and the present
tribal governments" of the Five Civilized Tribes "in full
force and effect for all purposes under existing laws," until
all the property of the tribes should be distributed (34
*Stat. 822); and by the act of April 26, 1906, they were continued "until otherwise provided by law" (ยง 28, 34 Stat.
137, 148, c. 1876). While the duration of the tribal government was thus extended, the last mentioned statute
expressly authorized the principal chief of the Seminoles
meanwhile, that is, before its termination, to execute deeds
to allottees. (Section 6, Id. 139.) These deeds, however,
had not been delivered at the time of the conveyances in
question. None of the lands, says the bill, had been patented to individuals, and they were not lands of heirs of
allottees.

GOAT v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is urged that the time for the issuance of patents was
fixed as the fourth of March, 1906, and that in law they
will be deemed to have been delivered on that date or
within a reasonable time thereafter; that although provision was made for the continuance of the tribal government, there was likewise authority for the delivery of the
deeds prior to its termination. The contention that the
restriction was thus removed cannot be sustained. The
agreement of 1897 did not fix a definite time for. the termination of the tribal government, and while the act of
1903 set a limit to its existence, Congress was competent
to extend it. This was done, and the mere authorization
of the execution of patents before the tribal government
ceased to exist, cannot be regarded as a repeal of the.
explicit provision that contracts for the sale or incumbrance of the allotted lands prior to the date of patent
should be void. The one did not override the other; they
could stand together.
But, in 1904-after the allotments to the Seminoles had
been made--the restrictions upon the alienation by adult
allottees of the five civilized tribes, who were not of Indian
blood, of lands other than homesteads were removed.
The provision was as follows (act of April 21, 1904, c. 1402,
33 Stat. 189, 204):
"And all the restrictions upon the alienation of lands of
all allottees of either of the Five Civilized Tribes of Indians who are not of Indian blood, except minors, are, except as to homesteads, hereby removed, and all restrictions upon the alienation of all other allottees of said
tribes, except minors, and except as to homesteads, may,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, be removed under such rules and regulations as the Secretary
of the Interior may prescribe, upon application to the
United States Indian agent at the Union Agency in
charge of the Five Civilized Tribes, if said agent is satisfied
upon a full investigation of each individual case that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

removal of restrictions is for the best interest of said
allottee. The finding of the United States Indian agent
and the approval of the Secretary of the Interior shall be
in writing and shall be recorded in the same manner as
patents for lands are recorded."
This statute undoubtedly applied to allottees of the
Seminole Nation, as one of the Five Civilized Tribes, and
the enrolled freedmen of that tribe, according to the
classification of the commission in making the rolls, fell
within the description of allottees "not of Indian blood."
The freedmen were persons of African descent-embracing
former slaves and their descendants-who had been admitted to the rights of native citizens under the treaty of
1866. (Report of Dawes Commission, 1898, pp. 11, 13.)
While the law did not prescribe that a separate roll of
freedmen should be made in the case of the Seminoles, the
commission in fact made one. As to this they said in their
report for 1898 (p. 13), referring to the Seminoles: "Indeed, it is essentially a nation of full-bloods, save as to its
colored citizens, who, under treaty provision, are on an
equal footing with the citizens by blood. About one-third
of the citizens of the Seminole Nation are freedmen, and
while the law does not specifically require a separate roll
of each of these classes, the commission's data will enable
it to so separate them." Accordingly the freedmen in the
rolls of the Seminoles, upon which the allotments were
based, appear as a class distinct from the citizens by blood.
(Final Rolls of Citizens and Freedmen of the Five Civilized Tribes, pp. 615, 627.) And the commissioner to the
Five Civilized Tribes in his report for 1908 (p. 7), in stating
the total number of the enrolled Seminoles, with the degree of blood of each, gives the number of the citizens of
full-blood and of mixed-blood, three-fourths or more,
one-half to three-fourths, and less than one-half blood,
and then the number of the enrolled freedmen as a separate
group. The bill does not allege that the allottees in

GOAT v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question had any Indian blood, but describes them simply
as "freedmen members of said tribe," and in the specifications of the conveyances which appear in the record
the grantors are named as Seminole freedmen whose
names are on the freedmen roll. The import of the allegation, then, is that these grantors were not of Indian blood,
and, so far as they were adults, they came within the provision of the act of 1904, removing restrictions upon the
alienation of surplus lands.
These adult grantors stood in precisely the same position-after"the act of 1904-as though they had received
their allotments without any restriction upon their right
to alienate the interest thus acquired. It is insisted, however, that this interest was not of such a character as to be
susceptible of transfer. This is not a tenable proposition.
Stress is laid upon the provision in the agreement of 1897
that each allottee should have "the sole right of occupancy of the land so allotted to him." But it is not to be
supposed that by this form of words Congress intended in
the case of the Seminoles to provide that, by virtue of the
allotment, the member of the tribe should receive an
interest of a different nature from that received by allottees of other tribes. The lands were allotted to the
members of the tribe in severalty, so that each should
have his distinct portion. The allotments constituted
their respective shares of the tribal property, set apart to
them as such, and while the execution of the deeds was
deferred, each had meanwhile a complete equitable interest in the land allotted to him. The nature of the allottee's interest is sufficiently shown by other provisions
of the agreement of 1897, as ratified by Congress, and by
statutes in pari materia. In the agreement it was provided that any allottee might lease his allotment on certain conditions. With respect to the townsite of Wewoka,
which was to be controlled and disposed of according to
the provisions of the act of the General Council of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U.S.

Seminole Nation of April 23, 1897, it was provided that
on extinguishment of the tribal government deeds should
issue "to owners of lots" as in the case of allottees. The
interest of the allottee was a descendible interest. By the
supplemental agreement of 1900, in the case of the death
of a member of the tribe after December 31, 1899, the
lands "to which he would be entitled if living" were to
descend to his heirs. Section 5 of the act of April 26, 1906,
relating to "patents or deeds to allottees in any of the
Five Civilized Tribes" to be thereafter issued-thus including those to be issued to the Seminole allotteesprovided that if any such allottee should die before the
deed became effective the title to the lands described
therein should" inure to and vest in his heirs," and further,
that "in case any allottee shall die after restrictions have
been removed, his property shall descend to his heirs or
his lawful assigns, as if the patent or deed had issued to
the allottee 'during his life" (34 Stat. 137, 138, c. 1876);
and ยง 19 of that act (p. 144) contained a proviso declaring
that conveyances theretofore made "by members of any
of the Five Civilized Tribes subsequent to the selection
of allotment and subsequent to removal of restriction,
where patents thereafter issue, shall not be deemed or
held invalid solely because said conveyances were made
prior to issuance and recording or delivery of patent or
deed."
The inalienability of the allotted lands was not due to
the quality of the interest of the allottee, but to the express restriction imposed. Their equitable interest was
one which in the absence of restriction they could convey.
Doe v. Wilson, 23 How. 457; Crews v. Burcham, 1 Black,
352; Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S.652, 656; Jones v. Meehan,
175 U. S. 1, 15-18; Godfrey v. Iowa Land & Trust Co., 21
Oklahoma, 293; 95 Pac. Rep. 792; Mullen v. United States,
April 15, 1912, ante, p. 448. And, hence, on the removal of
the restrictions upon aliniation, the adult allottees not of

DEMING INVESTMENT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 471
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

Indian blood were entitled to convey their surplus lands.
So far as the bill assails such conveyances it is without
equity.
As all the conveyances made to the appellants are not
particularly described in the printed record before this
court, it is impossible to specify those which were lawful
and those which were obnoxious to the statute. We are
of opinion (1) that the bill should be sustained so far as it
relates to conveyances of homestead lands; (2) that it
should also be sustained to the extent that it is directed
against conveyances of surplus lands made by freedmen
allottees who were minors and thus excepted from the provision of the act of April 21, 1904, and those made by
adult allottees prior to that date; and (3) that so far as the
bill relates to conveyances of surplus lands made by adult
freedmen allottees subsequent to April 21, 1904, it should
be dismissed.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals will therefore be affirmed, with the modification that the cause
shall proceed in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

DEMING INVESTMENT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 434.

Argued October 12, 13, 1911.-Decided April 29, 1912.

Goat v. United States, ante, p. 458, followed in regard to validity of
conveyances of lands allotted to Seminole Indians, and the right of
the United States to maintain actions to set such conveyances aside.
179 Fed. Rep. 13, modified and affirmed as to this point.

THE facts, which involve the validity of certain deeds
and mortgages of allotted lands made by Seminole In-

