UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

383

Syllabus.

represented by property in stocks of coal which had been
sent out of the State and were deposited in other States
for sale could not be taxed.
Of the Dredging Company Case, Mr. Justice Peckham,
speaking for this court, said (p. 356):
"Such property is entirely unlike the property involved
in Commonwealth v. American Dredging Co., 122 Pa. St.
386. That property consisted of vessels, or scows, or tugs,
only temporarily out of the State of Pennsylvania, for.the
purpose of engaging in business, and liable to return to the
State at any time, and was without any actual situs beyond the jurisdiction of the State itself."
We think, therefore, that the property in question was
taxable in Delaware at the domicile of the owner, and we
agree with the District Court in its conclusion that it had
not acquired a taxable situs in Porto Rico.
For this reason we dissent from the judgment of the
court.

UNITED STATES v. TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION OF ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 386. Argued October 20, 23, 1911.-Decided April 22, 1912.
Whether the unification of terminals in a railroad center is a permissible
facility in aid of interstate commerce, or an illegal combination in
restraint thereof, depends upon the intent to be inferred from the extent of the control secured over the instrumentalities which such
commerce is compelled to use, the method by which such control has
been obtained, and the manner in which it is exercised.
The unification of substantially every terminal facility by which the
traffic of St. Louis is served is a combination in restraint of interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

trade within the meaning and purposes of the Anti-Trust Act of
July 2, 1890, as the same has been construed by this court in StandardOil Co. v. UnitedStates, 221 U. S. 1, and United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106.
The history of the unification of the railroad terminal systems in St.
Louis in the Terminal Railroad Association shows an intent to destroy the independent existence of the terminal systems previously
existing, to, close the door to coripetition, and to prevent the joint
use or control of the terminals by any non-proprietary company.
A provision in an agreement for joint use of terminals by non-proprietary companies on equal terms does not render an illegal combination legal where there is no provision by which the non-proprietary
companies can enforce their right to such use.
Although the proprietary companies of a combination unifying terminals may not use their full power to impede free competition by
outside companies, the control may so result in methods inconsistent
with freedom of competition as to render it an illegal restraint under
the Sherman Act.
This court bases its conclusion that the unification of the terminals in
St. Louis is an illegal restraint on interstate traffic, and not an aid
thereto, largely upon the extraordinary situation at St. Louis and
upon the physical and topographical conditions of the locality.
A combination of terminal facilities, which is an illegal restraint of
trade by reason of.the exclusion of non-proprietary companies, may
be modified by the court by permitting such non-proprietors to
avail of the facilities on equal terms.
In this case held that the practices of the Terminal Association in not
only absorbing other railroad corporations but in doing a transportation business other than supplying terminal facilities operated to
the disadvantage of interstate commerce.
One of the fundamental purposes of the Anti-Trust Act is to protect,
and not to destroy, the rights of property; and, in applying the
remedy, injury to the public by the prevention of the restraint is the
foundation of the prohibitions of the statute. Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1, 78.
Where the illegality of the combination grows out of administrative
conditions which may be eliminated, an inhibition of the obnoxious
practices may vindicate the statute, and where public advantages
of a unified system can be preserved, that method may be adopted
by the court.
In this case the objects of the Anti-Trust Act are best attained by a
decree directing the defendants to reorganize the contracts unifying

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

385

Argument for Appellant.

the terminal facilities of St. Louis under their control so as to permit
the proper and equal use thereof by non-proprietary companies, and
abolishing the obnoxious practices in regard to transportation of
merchandise.
Unless defendants, whose combination has been declared illegal by reason of administrative abuse, modify it to the satisfaction of the court
so as to eliminate such abuse in the future, the court will direct a
complete. disjoinder of the elements of the combination and enjoin
the defendants from exercising any joint control thereover.

THE. facts, which involve the validity under the Sherman Anti-trust Act of the Terminal Railroad
Association
of St. Louis, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. C. Crow, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Attorney Generaland Mr. Charles
A. Houts, United States Attorney, were on the brief, for
appellant:
The record shows a plain violation of the Sherman Act
of July 2, 1890.
Every contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy, in undue restraint of trade or
commerce among the several States or foreign nations, is
illegal. See § 1.
Monopolizing, or attempting, combining or conspiring
to monopolize interstate or foreign trade or commerce is
illegal. See § 2.
Certain fundamental considerations control. The statute is aimed at restrictions upon interstate commerce.
Given a reasonable construction, as it must receive, its
purpose is to permit commerce between the States and
with foreign nations to flow in its natural channels unrestricted by any combinations, contracts, conspiracies, or
monopolies what*soever. Hopkins v. United States, 171
U. S.586; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.274..
Combinations between competing railroads engaged in
interstate commerce to unduly restrain commerce and
combinations between media or instruments of interstate
VOL. ccxxiv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

224 U. S.

commerce fall within the prohibition of the act. United
Statesf v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S.
319; tfnited States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S.
505; Addyston Pipe &c. Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 244;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Anderson V. United States, 171 U. S. 604; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1.
To monopolize interstate commerce, or the media, or
instruments of interstate commerce, is to secure, or adopt
measures which may bring about an exclusive control of
such commerce or of such instruments of commerce so as
to prevent others from engaging therein, or using such
instruments of commerce. In re Green, 52 Fed. Rep. 115;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197,
402; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 164 Fed. Rep.
700; United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1.
It is not necessary to bring a combination within the
act, that the result of its operation shall be complete restraint or monopoly, or that it shall have resulted in
actual injury to the public. It is sufficient if it really
tends to that end and to deprive the public of the advantages which flow from free competition. United States
v. Chesapeake &c. Fuel Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 610; United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 16; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Chattanooga &c. Works
v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390.
The Terminal Association is necessarily engaged in
interstate commerce. United States v. Union Stock Yards,
161 Fed. Rep. 919; United States v. Colorado &c. R. R.,
157 Fed. Rep. 321; United States v. R. P. T. Co., 144 Fed.
Rep. 861.
Mr. H. S. Priest, with whom Mr. T. M. Pierce was on
the brief, for appellees:
The terminal service necessary to be done in a great
city may, any or all of it, be done by the railroad com-

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

387

Argument for Appellees.

panies for themselves. A company may build its own
line connecting with another road on the other side of the
city, and it may use its own wagons to receive and deliver
freight at store doors.
This, and no more, the railroad companies of St. Louis
have done. They have acquired the terminal facilities of
St. Louis for themselves and are operating them as a part
'of the instrumentalities of their business. That each one
might do this if the instrumentalities employed were its
own is conceded, but it is denied that they may combine
with each other for that purpose.
The unitary system is in accord with public policy.
Terminal service is a matter of internal economy which
the companies may adjust to mutual advantage and no
arrangement respecting it operates to restrict competition between them as to the transportation service for the
public in which they are engaged.
Whatever facility railroad companies may use in common they may own in common. Common arrangements
affecting internal economy have never been held to be in
violation of public policy and whenever, in the advance
of civilization, they have suggested themselves as feasible,
they have been recognized by law, and appropriate regulations have been prescribed for them. In the country
every man builds independently. In the crowded section
of a great city, however, if all construction were done independently, the waste in space and the increase in cost
of construction would be very great.
Community of use of terminals in a large city is more
than a matter of convenience, or economy; it is an absolute
public necessity.
Under the Interstate Commerce Law, and indeed under
the common law of the land, tolls must be reasonable, and
the Government has the power to make them so if they
are not. The charges of extortion and that the proprietary
railroad companies compel all other railroad companies to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

224 U. S.

use the facilities are not true. There is, indeed, a compulsion, but it is inherent in the situation. The other
companies use the terminal property because it is not
possible to acquire adequate facilities for themselves. The
cost to any one company is prohibitive.
Every consideration of a public nature points to a consolidation of the terminals and to a common use of them
by all the railroad companies coming into the city. But
to avoid the odious phases of a monopoly, this use must
be open to all upon equal terms. The charge for service
in any case can be stated in one word-cost. No money
received for the service rendered goes to any other purpose than paying expenses of operation, taxes, fixed
charges, and proper maintenance. No dividends are paid
upon terminal shares, and no proprietary railroad company is a beneficiary of fixed charges. Any new railroad
built into St. Louis now has but to secure a way to a
terminal track and it has at once the ladvantages of the
entire terminal system.
The public policy of the country as indicated by statutory enactments has been in favor of combination by
railroad companies whenever any common matter of
internal economy is involved, and also where the combination is in the nature of connecting lines of railroad for
the purl5oses of continuous transportation. Two bridges
across a great river, where one will serve, do not facilitate
qommerce, but burden it with an unnecessary charge.
Common use of the same facilities by different railroad
companies has not only been approved, but has been enforced whenever there has been good reason therefor.
Act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 510; §§ 1164, 1165, Rev.
Stat. Missouri; Union Depot acts of the State of Illinois; April 7, 1875; of Alabama; of February 15, 1907,
of Indiana; Burns' Ann. Stat., Col. ,2, §§ 5345, 5374; of
Iowa, §§ 2099 to 2102, Annotated. Code of 1897; of
Maine, 60, 51, Rev. Stat. 1903; and of Michigan, Chap.

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.'

389

Argument for Appellees.

166, Comp. Laws, 1897; of Minnesota, Act of March 5,
1879; of Nebraska, Chap. 20, Laws of 1887, § 1816, Comp.
Stat. 1901; of Ohio, Chap. 3, Tit. 2, 2 Bates' Ann. Stats.;
of South Carolina, Code of 1902, Vol. 1, 813; of Tennessee, §§ 2429 to 2437, Code of 1896; of Texas, Chap. 16a,
Civil Stat. 1897; of Virginia, § 1294, Code 1904. See
Acts of Congress relating to Union Station in Washington, D. C.
It would be singular indeed, if all of the States severally,
and the United States as well, were giving their sanction
to arrangements and agreements which are in violation
of the Sherman Act, and it is much more probable that a
construction of that act leading to such a result is entirely
without warrant.
Union terminals have been frequently before the courts
for consideration, and have always been recognized and
approved as legitimate agencies in the work of railroad
transportation. State v. Terminal R. R. Assn., 182
Missouri, 284; Bernard v. Cheeseman, 7 Colorado, 376;
Central Railroad Company v. Perry, 58 Georgia, 461;
Birdwell v. Gate City Terminal Co. (Ga.), 10 L. R. A. (N.
S.) 909; Indianapolis Union Railway Co. v. Cooper, 6 Ind.
App. 202; Reisner v. Strong, 24 Kansas, 410; State v.
Martin, 51 Kansas, 462; Mayor v. Norwich R. R. Co., 109
Massachusetts, 103; Mayor v. Railroad Commissioners,
113 Massachusetts, 161; Union Depot Co. v. Morton, 83
Michigan, 265; Detroit Station v. Detroit, 88 Michigan, 347;
State v. St. Paul Union Depot Co., 42 Minnesota, 142; St.
Paul Union Depot Co. v. M. & N. R. Co., 47 Minnesota,
154; Chicago, St. Paul & Kansas C. Ry. Co. v. Union
Depot Ry. Co., 54 Minnesota, 411; Dewey v. Railroad, 142
N. Car. 392; Riley v. Union Station Co., 71 S.Car. 457;
Ryan v. Terminal Co., 102 Tennessee, 124; Collierv. Union
Railway Co., 113 Tennessee, 96; Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S.
1; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. U. P. Ry. Co., 47 Fed. Rep.
15; S.C., 51 Fed. Rep. 309, and 163 U. S.564.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

The arrangement in question is not in restraint of trade
or commerce among the several States, or a monopoly of
any part of the trade or commerce among the several
States.
Counsel for the Government confuse the operation of
the railroad and the cost of it, with the service rendered to
the public and the charge for it. The Sherman Act has
nothing to do with the former; its restrictions fall altogether upon the latter. No matter how many subordinate agencies of transportation different railroad companies
employ in common, no matter how many combinations
they may make to secure economy in operation, so long
as they do not pool their business or their earnings, so
long as they are left free in their relations to the shipping
and traveling public, every motive of self-interest remains
to incite to competition. And when economy of operation,
however accomplished, reduces costs, the end hoped for,
through competition, commerce is aided, and charges are
reduced to a still lower level.
Mr. John C. Higdon, by leave of the court, filed a brief
as amicus curie.
MR. JUSTIcE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The United States filed this bill to enforce the provisions of the Sherman Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209, against thirty-eight corporate and individual defendants named in the margin,' as a combination in re1 The Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis; The St. Louis
Merchants' Bridge Terminal Railway Company; The Wiggins Ferry
Company; The St. Louis Bridge Company; The St. Louis Merchants'
Bridge Company; The Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company;
The St. Louis & San Francisco Railway Company; The Chicago &
Alton Railway Company; The Baltimore & 'Ohio Southwestern Railroad Company; The Illinois Central Railroad Company; The St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company; The Chicago, Burling-

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

391

Opinion of the Court.

straint of interstate commerce and as a monopoly forbidden by that law. The cause was heard by the four
Circuit Judges, who, being equally divided in judgment,
dismissed the bill, without filing an opinion. From this
decree the United States has appealed.
The principal defendant is the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis, hereinafter designated as the Terminal
Company. It is a corporation of the State of Missouri,
and was organized under an agreement made in 1889 between Mr. Jay Gould and a number of the defendant railroad companies for the express purpose of acquiring the
properties of several independent terminal companies at
St. Louis with a view to combining and operating them as
a unitary system.
The terminal properties first acquired and combined
into one system by the Terminal Company comprised the
following: The Union Railway & Transit Company of
St. Louis and East St. Louis; The Terminal Railroad of
St. Louis and East St. Louis; The Union Depot Company
of St. Louis; The St. Louis Bridge Company, and the
Tunnel Railroad of St. Louis. These properties included
the great union station, the only existing railroad bridge-the Eads or St. Louis Bridge-and every connecting or
terminal company by means of which that bridge could
be used by railroads terminating on either side of the
river. For a time this combination was operated in comton & Quincy Railway Company; The St. Louis, VandaLa & Terre
Haute Railroad Company; The Wabash Railroad Company; The
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railway Company; The
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company; The Southern Railway
Company; The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company;
The Missouri Pacific Railway Company; The Central Trust Company
of New York; A. A. Allen, S. M. Felton, A. J. Davidson, W. M. Green,
J. T. Harahan, C. S. Clarke, H. Miller, Benjamin McKean, Joseph
Ramsey, George E. Evans, C. E. Schaff, T. C. Powell, J. F. Stevens,
A. G. Cochran, W. S. McChesney, Julius Walsh, V. W. Fisher and
S. D. Webster.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

petition with the terminal system of the Wiggins Ferry
Company, and upon the completion of the Merchants'
Bridge, in competition with it, and a system of terminals
which were organized in connection with it. The Wiggins
Ferry Company had for many years operated car transfer
boats by means of which cars were transferred between
St. Louis and East St. Louis.
Upon each side of the river it owned extensive railway
terminal facilities, with which connectioir was maintained
with the many railroads terminating on the west and east
sides of the river, which gave such roads connection with
each other, as well as access to many of the industrial and
business districts on each side. In 1890 a third terminal
system was opened up by the completion of a second railroad bridge over the Mississippi River at St. Louis, known
as the Merchants' Bridge. This was a railroad toll bridge,
open to every railroad upon equal terms. That it might
forever maintain the potentiality of competition as a railroad bridge, the act of Congress authorizing its construction provided that no stockholders in any other railway
bridge -company should become a stockholder therein.
But as this was a mere bridge company, it was essential
that railroad companies desiring to use it should have
railway connections with it on each side of the river. For
this purpose two or more railway companies were organized and lines of railway were constructed connecting
each end of the Merchants' Bridge with various railroad
systems terminating on either side of the river. The
Merchants' Bridge and its allied .terminals were thereby
able to afford many, if not all, of the railroads coming into
St. Louis, access to the business districts on both sides of
the river, and connection with each other.
Thus, for a time, there existed three independent
methods by which connetion was maintained between
railroads terminating on either side of the river at St.
Louis: First, the original Wiggins Ferry Company, and

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

393

Opinion of the Court.

its railway terminal connections; second, The Eads Railroad Bridge and the several terminal companies by means
of which railroads terminating at St. Louis were able to
use that bridge and connect with one another, constituting
the system controlled by the Terminal Company, and,
third, The Merchants' Bridge and terminal facilities
owned and operated by companies in connection therewith.
This resulted in some cases in an unnecessary duplication of facilities, but it at least gave to carriers and shippers some choice, a condition which, if it does not lead to'
competition in charges, does insure competition in service.
Important as were the considerations mentioned, their
independence of one another served to keep open the
means for the entrance of new lines to the city, and was
an obstacle to united opposition from existing lines. The
importance of this will be more clearly seen when we come
to consider the topographical conditions of the situation.
That the promotors of the Terminal Company designed
to obtain the control of every feasible means of railroad
access to St. Louis, or means of connecting the lines of
railway entering on opposite sides of the river, is manifested by the declarations of the original agreement, as
well as by the successive steps which followed. Thus, the
proviso in the act of Congress authorizing the construction
of the Merchants' Bridge, which forbade the ownership of
its stock by any other bridge company or stockholder in
any such company, was eliminated by an act of Congress,
.and shortly thereafter the Terminal Company obtained
stock control of the Merchants' Bridge Company, and of
its related terminal companies, and likewise a lease.
The Wiggins Ferry Company owned the river front on
the Illinois shore opposite St. Louis for a distance of several
miles. It had on that side and on its own property, switching yards and other terminal facilities. From these yards
extended lines of rails which connected with its car transfer
boats and with the termini of railroads on the Illinois side,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

On the St. Louis side of the river it had like facilities by
which it was in connection with railway lines terminating
on that side. That company was, consequently, able to
interchange traffic between the systems on opposite sides
of the river and to serve many industries. In 1892 the
Rock Island Railroad Company endeavored to obtain
an independent entrance to the city. For this purpose it
sought to acquire the facilities owned by the Wiggins
Ferry Company by securing a control of its capital stock.
This was not deemed desirable by the railroad companies
which jointly owned the Terminal Company's facilities,
and to prevent this .acquisition effort was made to secure
control of the stock. The competition was fierce and the
market price of the shares pushed to an abnormal price.
The final result being in doubt, an agreement .wasreached
by which the Rock Island Company was admitted to joint
ownership with the other proprietary companies in all of
the terminal properties which were operated by the
Terminal Company or which should be acquired by it.
The shares in the Ferry Company bought by the Rock Island were transferred to the Terminal Company at cost
and were paid for by that company. These shares, united
with those which had been acquired by the Terminal Company, enabled the latter to absorb the properties of. the
Ferry Company, and thus the three independent terminal
systems were combined into a single system.
We come, then, to the question upon which the case
must turn: Has the unification of substantially every
terminal facility by which the traffic of St. Louis is served
resulted in a combination which is in restraint of trade
within the meaning and purpose of the Anti-trust Act?
It is not contended that the unification of the terminal
facilities of a great city where many railroad systems
center is, under all circumstances and conditions, a combination in restraint of trade or commerce. Whether it
is a facility in aid of interstate commerce or an unreason-

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

395

Opinion of the Court.

able restraint forbidden by the act of Congress,- as construed and applied by this court in the cases of The Standard Oil Company v. The United States, 221 U. S. 1, and
The United States v. American Tobacco Company, 221 U, S.
106, will depend upon the intent to be inferred from the
extent of the control thereby secured over instrumentalities which such commerce is under compulsion to use, the
method by which such control has been brought about
and the manner in which that control has been exerted.
The consequence to interstate commerce of this combination cannot be appreciated without a consideration of
natural conditions greatly affecting the railroad situation
at St. Louis. Though twenty-four lines of railway converge at St. Louis, not one of them passes through.
About one-half of these lines have their termini on the
Illinois side of the river. The others, coming from the
west and north, have their termini either in the city or on
its northern edge. To the river the city owes its origin,
and for a century and more its river commerce was predominant. It is now the great obstacle to connection
between the termini of lines on opposite sides of the river
and any entry into the city by eastern lines. The cost of
construction and maintenance of railroad bridges over
so great a river makes it impracticable for every road desiring to enter or pass through the city to have its own
bridge. The obvious solution is the maintenance of toll
bridges open to the use of any and all lines upon identical
terms. And so the commercial interests of St. Louis
sought to solve the question, the system of car ferry
transfer being inadequate to the growing demands of an
ever-increasing population. The first bridge, called the
Eads Bridge, was, and is, a toll bridge. Any carrier may
use it on equal terms. But to use it there must be access
over rails connecting the bridge and the railway. On the
St. Louis side the bridge terminates at the foot of the great
hills upon which the city is built; on the Illinois side it

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U.S.

ends in the low and wide valley of the Mississippi. This
condition resulted in the organization of independent
companies which undertook to connect the bridge on each
side with the Various railroad termini. On the Missouri
side it was necessary to tunnel the hills, that the valley
of Mill Creek might be reached, where the roads from
the west had their termini. Thus, though the bridge might
be used by all upon equal terms, it was accessible only by
means of the several terminal companies operating lines
connecting it with the railroad termini.
This brought about a condition which led to the construction of the second bridge, te Merchants' Bridge.
This, too, was, and is, a toll bridge, and may be used by all
upon equal terms. To prevent its control by the Eads
Bridge Company, it was carefully provided that no stockholder in any other bridge company should own its shares.
But this Merchants' Bridge, like the Eads Bridge, had no
rail connections with any of the existing railroad systems,
and these facilities, as in the case of the Eads Bridge,
were supplied by a number of independent railway companies who undertobk to fill in the gaps between the bridge
ends and the termini of railroads on both sides of the river.
It must be also observed that these terminal companies
were in many instances so supplied with switch connections
as not only to connect with the bridge, but also served to
connect such roads with each other and with the industries
along their lines. Now, it is evident that these lines connecting railroad termini with the railroad bridges domihated the situation. They stood, as it were, just outside
the gateway, and none could enter, though the gate stood
open, who did not comply with their terms. The topographical situation making access to the city difficult does
not end with the river. The city lies upon a group of
great hills which hug the river closely and rapidly recede
to the west. These hills are penetrated on the west by the
narrow valley of Mill Creek, which crosses the city'about

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

397

Opinion of the Court.

its center. Railways coming from the west use this valley,
but its facilities are very restricted and now quite occupied.
North of the city the hills drop back from the river gradually, and there exists a valley formed by the Mississippi
and Missouri rivers. Railroads coming from the north
on the west side of the river come by this valley. As we
have stated before, the valley of the Mississippi at St.
Louis is on the Illinois side of the river. Railroads coming
from the east, northeast and southeast have their termini
in that valley. As a consequence, there have grown up
numerous cities and towns of some consequence as manufacturing places, the chief of which is East St. Louis.
The result of the geographical and topographical situation is that it is, as a practical matter, impossible. for any
railroad company to pass through, or even enter St. Louis,
so as to be within reach of its industries or 'commerce,
without using the facilities entirely controlled by the
Terminal Company. The averment of the bill that the
railroad companies, here defendants, being the sole stockholders of the Terminal Company, as we shall later see,
compel all other railroad companies converging at St.
Louis to use the facilities owned and operated by the
Terminal Company, is, therefore, borne out by the facts
of the situation. Nor is this effect denied, for the learned
counsel representing the proprietary companies, as well as
the Terminal Company, say in their filed brief: "There indeed is compulsion; but it is inherent in the situation. The
other companies use the terminal properties because it is
not possible to acquire adequate facilities for themselves.
The cost to any one company is prohibitive." Obviously,
this was not true before the consolidation of the systems
of the Wiggins Ferry Company and the Merchants' Bridge
Company with the system theretofore controlled by the
Terminal Company. That the non-proprietary companies
might have been compelled to use the instrumentalities
of one or the other of the three systems then available, and

.398

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

that the advantages secured might not have been so great
as those offered by the unified system now operated by the
Terminal Company, must be admitted. But that there existed before the three terminal systems were combineda
considerable measure of competition for the business of the
other companies, and a larger power of competition, is undeniable. That the fourteen proprietary companies did not
then have the power they now have to exclude either existing roads not in the combination, or new companies, from
acquiring an independent entrance into the city, is also
indisputable. The independent existence of these three
terminal systems was, therefore, a menace to complete
domination as keeping open the way for greater competition. Only by their absorption or some equivalent arrangement was it possible to exclude from independent
entrance the Rock Island Company, or any other company
which might desire its own terminals. To close the door
to competition large sums were expended to acquire stock
control. For this purpose the obligations of the absorbed
companies were assumed and new funds obtained by
mortgages upon the unified system.
The physical conditions which compel the use of the
combined system by every road which desires to cross
the river, either to serve the commerce of the city or to
connect with lines separated by the river, is the factor
which gives greatest color to the unlawfulness of the combination as now controlled and operated. If the Terminal
Company was in law and fact the agent of all, the mere
.unification which has occurred would take on quite a
different aspect. It becomes, therefore, of the utmost
importance to know the character and purpose of the
corporation which has combined all of the terminal instrumentalities upon which the commerce of a great city
and gateway between the East and West must depend.
The fact that the Terminal Company is not an independent corporation at all is of the utmost significance. There

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS. TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

399

Opinion of the Court.

are twenty-four railroads converging at St. Louis. The
relation of the Terminal Company is not one of impartiality to each of them. It was organized in 1889, at the
instance of six of these railroad companies, for the purpose of acquiring all existing terminal instrumentalities
for the benefit of the combination, and such other companies as they might thereafter admit to joint ownership
by unanimous consent, and upon a consideration to be
agreed upon. From time to time other companies came
to an agreement with the original proprietors until, at
the time this bill was filed, the properties unified were held
for the joint use of the fourteen companies made defendants. In the contract of 1889, above referred to, the purpose of acquiring the first terminals combined, is declared
to be, "that said properties may be held in perpetuity as
a unit and de~ieloped and improved in the interest of the
proprietary companies, for the purpose of furnishing adequate terminal facilities in St. Louis and East St.. Louis."
This purpose was carried out by the conveyance to "each
of the proprietary companies
. .
forever a right of
joint use with each other and such othoi companies as
may be admitted as proprietary lines to joint use thereof,
of all said terminal properties . . . now held or that
may be hereafter acquired in St. Louis and East St.
Louis, . . . it being understood that the right herein
granted to each proprietary company is not transferable
to any extent whatever, but is to remain as an appurtenant to the railroad now owned by each proprietary company "
That these facilities were not to be acquired for the
benefit of any railroad company which might desire a
joint use thereof was made plain by a provision in the
contract referred to which stipulated that other railroad
companies not named therein as proprietary companies
might only be admitted "to joint use of said terminal
system on unanimous consent, but uot otherwise, of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

directors of the first party, and on payment of such a consideration as they may determine, and on signing this
agreement," etc. Inasmuch as the directors of the Terminal Company consisted of one representative of each of
the proprietary companies, selected by itself, it is plain that
each of said companies had and still has a veto upon any
joint use or control of terminals by any.non-proprietary
company.
By that and the supplemental agreement of December, 1902, the Ferry Company and the Merchants' Bridge
Company having then been absorbed, the proprietary
companies prescribed that the charges of the company
shall be so adjusted as to produce no more revenue than
shall equal the fixed charges, operating and maintenance
expenses. Deficiencies for those purposes the proprietary
companies guarantee to make good, though such payments
are to be reimbursed by an increase in charges, if necessary.
We fail to find in either of the contracts referred to any
provision abrogating the requirement of unanimous consent to the admission of other companies to the ownership
of the Terminal Company, though counsel say that no
such company will now find itself excluded from jpint use
or ownership upon application. That other companies.
are permitted to use the facilities of the Terminal Company upon paying the same charges paid by the proprietary companies seems to be conceded. But there is no
provision by which any duch privilege is accorded.
By still another clause in the agreement the proprietary
companies obligate themselves to forever use the facilities
of the Terminal Company for all business destined to
cross the river. This would seem to guarantee against any
competitive system, since the companies to.the agreement
now control about one-third of the railroad mileage Of the
United States.
In acquiring these properties the Terminal Company_
has assumed mortgage and stock dividend obligations of

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

401

Opinion of the Court.

the constituent companies aggregating about twenty-five
million dollars. It has executed its own mortgage upon
all of its property to secure an issue of fifty million dollars
of bonds, of which twenty million dollars worth have been
sold, and the proceeds used in construction or -in paying
for the properties acquired. It has thus about forty-five
million dollars of mortgage or fixed charges or liabilities.
The company has an authorized capital stock of fifty
million dollars. Of this about twenty-eight million dollars
has been issued in equal proportions, to the several owning
railroad companies. No dividends have ever been paid,
and the company disclaims any purpose to pay dividends.
We fail to find any obligation by which they may be
prevented from paying dividends upon the stock held
by the proprietary companies, or that in its treasury, if
ever issued. Undoubtedly, the major part of this revenue
arises from the business done by the proprietary companies through the Terminal Company, but that coming
from other companies is, however, a large contribution.
That no direct profit is derived by the owning companies
from the operation of the terminals, may be true. But it
is not clear that the proprietary companies do not make
an indirect profit thiough ownership of obligations of the
absorbed companies.
That through their ownership and exclusive control
they are in possession: of advantages in respect to the
enormous traffic which must use the St. Louis gateway, is
undeniable. That the proprietary companies have not
availed themselves of the full measure of their power to
impede free competition of outside companies, may be
true. Aside from their power under all of the conditions
to exclude independent entrance to the city by any outside company, their control has resulted in certain methods
which are not consistent with freedom of competition. To
these acts we shall refer later.
We are not unmindful of the essential difference bevoL. ccxxiv-26

402 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

tween terminal systems properly so described and railroad
transportation companies. The first are but instrumentalities which assist the latter in the transfer of traffic between different lines, and in the collection and distribution
of traffic. They are a modern evolution in the doing of
railroad business, and are of the greatest public utility.
They, under proper conditions, do not restrain, but promote commerce.
The argument that the combination of the instrumentalities operated by the Terminal Company with those of
the Merchants' Bridge Company was a combination of
two competing lines of railroad, such as was condemned
in Northern Securities Company v. United States, 193 U. S.
197, is not Well founded. This combination if properly
regarded as of parallel and competing lines would have
been obnoxious to the seventeenth section of the constitution of Missouri. For the purpose of enforcing this Missouri prohibition, the State instituted a proceeding to dissolve the combination of the properties of the Merchants'
Bridge Terminal Railroad Company with the Terminal
Railroad Association of St. Louis, upon the ground that
the railroads operated by those companies were parallel
and competing lines of railroad. Relief was denied. The
Missouri court held that the merger of mere railway
terminals used to facilitate the public convenience by the
transfer of cars from one line of railway to another, and
instrumentalities for the distribution or gathering of
traffic, freight or passenger, among scattered industries,
or to different business centers of a great city, were not
properly railroad companies within the reasonable meaning of the statutes forbidding combinations between competing or parallel lines of railroad. Referring to the legitimate use of terminal companies, the Missouri court said:
"A more effectual means of keeping competition up to
the highest point between parallel or competing lines could
not be devised. The destruction of the system would re-

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

403

Opinion of the Court.

suit in compelling the shipper to employ the railroad with
which he has switch connection, or else cart his product to
a distant part of the city, at a cost possibly as great as
the railroad tariff.
"St. Louis is a city of great magnitude in the extent of
its area, its population, and its manufacturing and other
business. A very large number of trunk line railroads
converge in this city. In the brief of one of the wellinformed counsel in this case it is said that St., Louis is
one of the largest railroad centers in the world. Suppose
it were reqjuired of every railroad company to effect its
entrance to this city as best it could and establish its
own terminal facilities, we would have a larg6 number
of passenger stations, freight depots and switch yards
scattered all over the vast area and innumerable vehicles
employed in hauling passengers and freight to and from
those stations and depots. Or suppose it became necessary in the exigency of commerce that all incoming trains
should reach a common focus, but every railroad company provide its own track; then not only would the expense of obtaining the necessary rights of way be so
enormous as to amount to the exclusion of all but a few of
the strongest roads, but, if it could be accomplished, the
city would be cut to pieces with the many lines of railroad
intersecting it in every direction, and thus the greatest
agency of commerce would become the greatest burden."
182 Missouri, 284, 299.
Among the cases in which the public utility of such
companies has been recognized are: Bridwell v. Gate "City
Terminal Co. (Georgia), 10 L. R. A. (N. S.) 909; Indianapolis Union Railroad Company v. Cooper, 6 Ind. App.
202; State ex rel. v. Martin, 51 Kansas, 462; Mayor v.
Norwich E. W. Railroad Co., 109 Massachusetts, 103;
Union Depot Company v. Morton, 83 Michigan, 265;
State v. St. Paul Union Depot Co., 42 Minnesota, 142;
Ryan v. Terminal Co., 102 Tennessee, 111, 124.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

-

224 U. S.

While, therefore, the mere combining of several independent terminal systems into one may not operate as a
restraint upon the interstate commerce which must use
them, yet there may be conditions which will bring such
a combination under the prohibition of the Sherman Act.
The one in question, counsel say, is not antagonistic to
but in harmony with the Anti-trust Act, "because it expands competition by extending equal conveniences and
advantages to all shippers located upon each of the three
systems for all traffic to and from St. Louis; expedites and
economizes the service." It is justified, they argue by
"(1) the physical or topographical conditions peculiar to
the locality; by (2) its commercial, industrial and railroad
development and history; by (3) public opinion expressed
legislatively and judicially, and (4) by the judgment of
experienced railroad engineers and managers." From
which consideration the same counsel say that the issue
presented by this record is, "whether the common control
or ownership of all the terminal facilities (mechanical devices for the exchange, receipt and distribution of traffic)
of a large commercial and manufacturing center by all of
the railroad companies, and for the benefit of all upon
equal terms and facilities, without discrimination, is condemned by the Sherman act."
Let us analyze the proposition included in the issue, as
stated by counsel, quoted above: Counsel assume that the
combined terminals have come under a "common control
or ownership." But this is not the case. That the instrumentalities so combined are not jointly owned or
managed by all of the companies compelled to use them is
a significant fact which must be taken into account for the
purpose of determining whether there has been a violation
of the Anti-trust Act. The control and ownership is that
of the fourteen roads which are defendants. The railroad
systems and the Coal roads converging at St. Louis, which
are not associated with the proprietary companies are

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL. 405
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under compulsion to use the terminal system, and yet
have no voice in its control.
It cannot be controverted that, in ordinary circumstances, a number of independent companies might combine for the purpose of controlling or acquiring terminals
for their common but exclusive use. In such cases other
companies might b admitted upon terms or excluded altogether. If such terms were too onerous, there would
ordinarily remain the right and power to construct their
own terminals. But the situation at St. Louis is most extraordinary, and we base our conclusion in this case, in a
large measure, upon that fact. The "physical or topographical condition peculiar to the locality," which is
advanced as a prime justification for a unified system of
terminals, constitutes a most obvious reason why such
a unified system is an obstacle, a hindrance and a restriction upon interstate commerce, unless it is the impartial
agent of all who, owing to conditions, are under such
compulsion, as here exists, to use its facilities. The witness
upon whom the defendants chiefly rely to uphold the
advantages of the unified system which has been constructed, Mr. Albert L. Perkins, gives this as his unqualified judgment. He was and is an experienced railroad
engineer and manager and is the railway expert of the
Municipal Bridge and Terminal Board, a commission appointed under a city ordinance, headed by the mayor, to
study and report legislation needed torelieve the terminal
conditions of St. Louis. From his study of the local
situation he. expresses the opinion that the terminals of
railway lines in any large city should be unified as far as
possible, and that such unification may be of the greatest
public utility and of immeasureable advantage to commerce, state and interstate. Neither does he find in the
conditions at St. Louis any insurmountable objection to
such unification. The witness, however, points out that
such a terminal company should be the agent of every

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

company, and, furthermore, that its service should not
be for profit or gain. In short, that every railroad using
the service should be a joint owner and equally interested
in the control and management. This, he thinks, will
serve the greatest possible economy, and will give the
most efficient service without discrimination. When thus
jointly owned and controlled, whether through the medium
of a mere holding or operating company, such as the
Terminal Company is, or by other means, the facilities
would belong to each relatively to its own business and
delivery would be made by each company over its own
tracks to connecting lines or places of destination in the
city. The charge for the haul thus lengthened would then
be properly absorbed by the through rate, leaving nothing to be added to that to be charged the shipper or consignee but switching and storage charges proper.
The terminal properties in question are not so controlled and managed, in view of the inherent local conditions, as to escape condemnation as a restraint upon
commerce. They are not under a common control and
ownership. Nor can this be brought-about unless the prohibition against the admission of other companies to such
control is stricken out and .provision made for the admission of any company to an equal control and management
upon an equal basis with the present proprietary companies.
There are certain practices of this Terminal Company
which operate to the disadvantage of the commerce which
must cross the river at St. Louis, and of non-proprietary
railroad lines compelled to use its facilities. One of them
grows out of the fact that the Terminal Company is a
terminal company and something more. It does not confine itself to supplying and operating mere facilities for
the interchange of traffic between railroads and to assistance in the collecting and distributing of traffic for the
carrier companies. It, as well as several of the absorbed

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

407

Opinion of the Court.

terminal companies, were organized under ordinary railroad charters. If the combination which has occurred is
to escape condemnation as a combination of parallel and
competing railroad companies, it is because of the essential difference between railroad and terminal companies
proper-differences pointed out by the Missouri Supreme
Court in the case heretofore referred to. Indeed, the defense to this proceeding is based upon the insistence that
the Terminal Company is solely engaged in operating
terminal facilities, defined in the briefs, "as mechanical
devices for the exchange, receipt and distribution of
traffic." This Terminal Company, in addition to its
schedule for terminal charges proper, such as switching,
warehousing, etc,, files its rate-sheets for the transportation of every class of merchandise from the termini of the
railroads on the Illinois side of the river to destinations
across the river over its lines. These rates are applied to
all traffic destined to cross the river, with certain exceptions to which we shall later refer, .which originates within
an irregular area of which St. Louis is the center, and
having a diameter of from one to two hundred miles.
This arbitrary operates to cast a burden upon short hauls,
which has led to much complaint, as being both discriminatory and extortionate. An exception is made as to
traffic originating within so much of this area as constitutes
what is called "Green Line Territory," or which is destined to points within "Green Line Territory." This
seems to be based upon competitive conditions caused by
the great toll railway bridge at Memphis, Tennessee, the
bridge toll being treated by lines using the bridge as a
part of the through rate.
Another exception to the rule imposing this arbitrary
is that it does not apply to traffic which originates in East
St. Louis, whether it is destined to cross the river or not.
The reason for this exemption, where such tikaffic does
cross the river, is not apparent. Possibly, it may be said

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

that it is because the traffic of St. Louis and East St.
Louis should be treated as arising in the same commercial
area. But this reason does not seem to apply to the traffic
originating in St. Louis, which is bound east, though that
of East St. Louis is altogether free from this arbitrary
charge. The effect of this arbitrary discrimination is obviously injurious to the commerce and' manufacturers of
St. Louis, and is among the chief causes of complaint
against the Terminal Company. Mr. Perkins, to whom
we have before referred as a capable and impartial expert, says of the consequence of this curious exception out
of the one hundred mile area rule, that" the effect of these
charges was, of course, to put the man doing business in
St. Louis at a disadvantage to that extent with the man
doing business at East St. Louis on his eastern business."
Again he says, that the practical operation was to give
East St. Louis a distinct advantage in the manufacturing
lines. Another practice which marks this Terminal Company as a transportation company which interposed itself
between railroads having their termini on opposite sides
of the river, and between the city itself and the roads
terminating on the east side of the river, is that all traffic
destined to cross the river at St. Louis, whether bound
east or west, or destined for the city if coming from the
east, is billed only to East St. Louis, and there rebilled
to destination.
The practice of rebilling and of making a distinct hauling charge is an evident survival of the methods which
existed when the eastern lines had no termini in St. Louis.
They then billed to East St. Louis, and there turned the
traffic over to one of the existing terminal companies,
who made their own specific charges for the haul to
places of delivery within the city. The practice has been
continued after the reason for it has disappeared. The
effect of this practice of rebilling at East St. Louis and of
imposing this arbitrary upon traffic originating within

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

409

Opinion of the Court.

one hundred miles of the city, destined to cross the river,
seems to have been also applied to the large coal traffic
between the Illinois coal mines, upon which the city is
largely dependent.
We come now to the remedy. In determining what
this should be we, as said by this court in Standard Oil
Company v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 78, must not
overlook the fact that in applying a remedy "that injury
to the public by the prevention of an undue restraint on,
or the monopolization of trade or commerce is the foundation upon which the prohibitions of the statute rest, and
moreover that one of the fundamental purposes of the
statute is to protect, not to destroy, rights of property."
If, as we have already said, the combination of two or
more mere terminal companies into a single system does
not violate the prohibition of the statute against contracts apd combinations in restraint of interstate commerce, it is because such a combination may be of the
greatest public utility. But when, as here, the inherent
conditions are such as -to prohibit any other reasonable
means of entering the city, the combination of every such
facility under the exclusive ownership and control of less
than all of the companies under compulsion to use them
violates both the first and second sections of the act, in
that it constitutes a contract or combination in restraint
of commerce among the States and an attempt to monopolize commerce among the States which must pass through
the gateway at St. Louis.
The Government has urged a dissolution of the combination between the Terminal Company, the Merchants'
Bridge Terminal Company and the Wiggins Ferry Company. That remedy may be necessary unless one equally
adequate can be applied.
But the illegal restraint upon commerce among the
States which we here find to exist consists in the possession acquired by the proprietary companies through the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

means and with the object we have stated of dominating
commerce among the States carried on by other railroads
entering or seeking to enter the city of St. Louis and by
which such railroads are compelled either to desist from
carrying on interstate commerce or to do so upon the
terms imposed by the proprietary companies. This control and possession constitutes such a grip upon the commerce of St. Louis and commerce which must cross the
river there, whether coming from the east or west as to
be both an illegal restraint and an attempt to monopolize.
The power resulting from the combination even before
completed by the acquisition of the Wiggins .Ferry Company and its related terminals was exhibited when the
Rock Island sought an independent entrance.
Some of its abuses are shown by the imposition of the
arbitrary hauling charge imposed upon the artificially
limited trade districts described. It is shown also by the
maintenance of the system of billing traffic destined to
cross the river at St. Louis, either east or west, or to St.
Louis, if from points on the east side of the river, a practice so galling and universal as to practically "eliminate
St. Louis from the railroad map," to quote the graphic, if
extravagant, language of counsel for the United States, as
respects the great traffic subject to the regulation.
Plainly the combination which has occurred would not
be an illegal restraint under the terms of the statute if it
were what is claimed for it, a proper terminal association
acting as the impartial agent of every line which is under
compulsion to use its instrumentalities. If, as we have
pointed out, the violation of the statute, in view of the inherent physical conditions, grows out of administrative
conditions which may be eliminated and the obvious advantages of unification preserved, such a modification of
the agreement between the Terminal Company and the
proprietary companies as shall constitute the former the
bona fide agent and servant of every railroad line which

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS TERMINAL.
224 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

shall use its facilities, and an inhibition of certain methods
of administration to which we have referred, will amply
vindicate the wise purpose of the statute, and will preserve to the public a system of great public advantage.
These considerations lead to a reversal of the decree
dismissing the bill. This is accordingly adjudged and the
case is remanded to the District Court, with directions
that a decree be there entered directing the parties to submit to the court, within ninety days after receipt of mandate, a plan for the reorganization of the contract between
the fourteen defendant railroad companies and the Terminal Company, which we have pointed out as bringing
the combination within the inhibition of the statute.
First. By providing for the admission of any existing
or future railroad to joint ownership and control of the
combined terminal propertie,.-upon such just and reasonable terms as shall place such applying company upon a
plane of equality in respect of benefits and burdens with
the present proprietary companies.
Second. Such plan of reorganization must also provide
definitely for the use of the terminal facilities by any other
railroad not electing to become a joint owner, upon such
just and reasonable terms and regulations as will, in
respect of use, character and cost of service, place every
such company upon as nearly an equal plane as may be
with respect to expenses and charges as that occupied by
the proprietary companies.
Third. By eliminating from the present agreement between the Terminal Company and the proprietary companies any provision which restricts any such company to
the use of the facilities of the Terminal Company.
Fourth. By providing for the complete abolition of the
existing practice of billing to East St. Louis, or other
junction points, and then rebilling traffic destined to
St. Louis, or to points beyond.
Fifth. By providing for the abolition of any special or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

so-called arbitrary charge for the use of the terminal
facilities in respect of traffic originating within the socalled one hundred mile area, that is not equally and in
line manner applied in respect of all other traffic of a like
character originating outside of that area.
Sixth. By providing that any disagreement between any
company applying to become a joint owner or user as
herein provided for and the Terminal or proprietary companies which shall arise after a final decree in this cause,
may be submitted to the District Court, upon a petition
filed in this cause, subject to review by appeal in the usual
manner.
Seventh. To avoid any possible misapprehension, the
decree should also contain a provision that nothing therein
shall be taken to affect in any wise or at any time the power
of the Interstate Commerce Commission over the rates to
be charged by the Terminal Company, or the mode of
billing traffic passing over its lines, or the establishing of
joint through rates or routes over its lines, or any other
power conferred by law upon such Commission.
Upon failure of the parties to come to an agreement
which is in substantial accord with this opinion and decree,
the court will, after hearing the parties upon a plan for
the dissolution of the combination between the Terminal
Company, The Wiggins Ferry Company, the Merchants'
Bridge Company, and the several terminal companies
related to the Ferry and Merchants' Bridge Company,
make such order and decree for the complete disjoinder
of the three systems, and their future operation as independent systems, as may be necessary, enjoining the defendants, singly and collectively from any exercise of control or dominion over either of the said terminal systems,
or their related constituent companies, through lease,
purchase or stock control, and enjoining the defendants
from voting any share in any of said companies or receiving dividends, directly or indirectly, or from any future

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

combination of the said systems in evasion of such decree
or any part thereof.
Reversed and remanded accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES took no part in the hearing or
determination of 'this case.

HECKMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 496. Argued October 12, 13, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.
The United States has capacity to maintain a suit to set aside conveyances made by allottee Indians of allotted lands within the
statutory period of restriction; and this suit brought against numerous defendants, all of whom were grantees of allottees of the same
tribe, is properly maintainable in equity; the return of the consideration to the grantee is not essential; there is no defect of parties because the allottee Indians making the conveyances are not joined;
there is no misjoinder of causes of action, and the bill is not multifarious.
Congress has power to extend the restrictions upon alienation of allotted lands by allottee Indians, Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221
U. S. 286; and so held that the provision for extending the period of
alienation of lands allotted in severalty to full-blood Cherokees in the
act of May 27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312, c. 199, is a valid exercise by Congress of its power over Indian affairs.
The relations of the United States to the Cherokee Indians as estabfished by treaties and statutes reviewed, and held that in executing
the policy of extinguishing the tribal organization and title, and the
allotment of the tribal lands in severalty, the intent of Congress was
to fulfill the national obligation, not only by an equitable apportionment of the property but by safeguarding through suitable restrictions the individual ownership of the allottees.

