OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.
GOODRICH TRANSIT COMPANY.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.
SAME.
UNITED STATES v. WHITE STAR LINE.
UNITED STATES v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
Nos. 879, 880, 881, 882.

Argued February 20,21, 1912.-Decided April 1,
1912.

Conclusions and argumentative deductions set forth in the bill as to
effect of orders of a governmental body upon complainant are not
to be regarded under-the rules of pleading as allegations of fact and
admitted. United States v. Ames, 99 U. S. 35.
Carriers partly by railroad and partly by water under a common arrangement for a continuous carriage are as specifically within the
term of the Interstate Commerce Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584,
c. 3591, as any other carrier nanied therein.
Such carriers are subject to the provisions of the act authorizing the
Commission to require a system of accounting.
Such*carriers, while engaged in carrying on traffic under joint rates
with railroads filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, are
bound to deal upon like terms with all shippers availing of the rates
and are generally subject to the Interstate Commerce Act.
Section 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act gives the Commission
ample authority to require accounts to be kept by carriers in the
manner prescribed by the Commission.
A statute requiring a carrier doing both interstate and intrastate business to render accounts of all of its business is not beyond the power
of Congress as a regulation of intrastate commerce.
Carriers partly by land and partly by water may be required to keep
accounts of all their traffic, both interstate and intrastate, under the
provisions of § 20 of the act of June 29, 1906.
Congress may not delegate its purely legislative power; but having laid
down general rules of action under which a commission may pro-

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 195
224 U. S. Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
ceed, it may require that commission to apply such rules to particular situations.
The provisions of § 20 of the act of June 29, 1906, authorizing the
Interstate Commerce Commission to require accounts to be kept in
a specified manner by interstate carriers, are not an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative power.
Under § 20 of the act of June 29, 1906, the Interstate Commerce Commission is to be fully informed of all business conducted by a carrier
of interstate traffic; and this includes all operations of such carriers,
whether strictly transportation or not; in this case held to include
amusement parks operated by a carrier of interstate commerce
partly by land and partly by water.
190 Fed. Rep. 943, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and construction of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act in regard to accounts to be kept by carriers partly by
land and partly by water, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce
Commission:
The provisions of § 20 have a real and substantial relation to the execution of the powers and the attainment
of the purposes of the Act to Regulate Commerce; therefore Congress has power to require statistical reports from,
and a uniform system of bookkeeping by, every common
carrier subject to the act, and the Interstate Commerce
Commission acted Within its statutory power in requiring
such reports from, and classification of accounts by, such
carriers. Gibbon v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196, 223; Inter.
Com. Comm. v. Balt. & 0. R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 276; Int.
Com. Comm. v. Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. P. R. Co., 167 U. S.
506; Texas & Pac. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, 438; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 178; Inter.
Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 474;
Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 31;
Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 221 U. S. 612,
618;Southern Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

224 U. S.

24; N. Y., N. H. & H. Railroad Co. v. I. C. C., 200 U. S.
361,391.
The primary objects of the Act to Regulate Commerce
are to destroy favoritism, to prevent rebating and undue
advantages of every kind which give to one shipper over
the public highways an undue advantage over contemporaneous shippers, and when these unlawful acts by an interstate commerce agent are discovered by an examination
of carriers' accounts, it becomes apparent that there is a
real or substantial relation or connection between what is
required by these orders in respect to accounts and the
object which the Act to Regulate Commerce obviously is
designed to attain. Reports would be valueless for the
purposes of comparison with former reports by the same
carrier unless the classificationwas uniform.
Common carriers by water, who have voluntarily filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission joint tariffs
under which they operate jointly with railroads in transporting interstate passengers and property over through
routes partly by railroad and partly by water, are agents
of interstate commerce and as such may be lawfully required to classify their accounts and make statistical
reports of their entire business as common carriers.
The relation of a carrier to a particular traffic, or to
instrumentalities which are under the regulating power of
Congress, determines whether such a carrier is subject
to the act. Re Oyster Police Steamers, 31 Fed. Rep. 763;
The City of Salem, 37 Fed. Rep. 846; Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557; So. Pac. Terminal Co. v. Inter. Com. Comm., 219
U. S. 498.
These cases recognize the power of Congress to legislate
in reference to the agents of interstate commerce who
are carrying on a transportation business which is subject
to the act. It is not the terminology of the statute or the
manner in which its agents are brought under the regulating power of Congress, but it is the fact that they are

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 197
224 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

carrying on transportation which is subject to the regulating power of Congress and which is to be protected from
favoritism by the Commission, that renders them subject to all the general provisions of the act applicable to
agents.
The orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission are
not arbitrary, but tend to advance the general purposes
of the act, and the orders conform to the requirements of
§ 20. See address of Prof. Henry C. Adams, 5th Ann.
Conv. Ry. Com'rs, 44.
Congress in adopting these regulations, and the Commission in carrying them out, have exercised that legislative discretion which belongs to that branch of the Government; they have determined what means will best enable
the legislative branch of the Government to perform the
duty assigned to it of regulating and protecting interstate
commerce. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421;
Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 353.
There is no merit in the claim of appellees that Congress has granted to the Commission legislative powers
in violation of the fundamental law. Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 497; Union Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U. S. 377; Monongahela Bridge v. United States, 216
U. S. 177; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506.
As to appellees' contention that its constitutional rights
are invaded by the publicity given its business, see Corporation Tax Law Case, 220 U. S. 107; Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., supra.
The Commerce Court erred in holding that a recast of
the forms of reports should be made by the Commission,
acting in conformity with the views expressed by that
court, thereby requiring that the reports and classification
of accounts should only include business partly by railroad
and partly by water.
Ur. James A. Fowler, Assistant to-the Attorney General,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

224 U. S.

with whom Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to
the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the United
States:
Information relating to the entire business of a common carrier subject to the provisions of the Act to Regulate
Commerce, whether interstate or intrastate, is essential
to the proper enforcement of the law and Congress has
the power to require its production at the instance of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421, 423; St. Louis & San Francisco
Railway Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Minneapolis & St. Louis
Railroad Company v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 465, 470,
472; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S.
25, 43, 44; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S. 612, 622; Flint v.
Stone Tracy Company, 220 U. S. 107; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 497.
When common carriers, either by railroad or by water,
engage in commerce among the several States, however
slight the extent, knowledge and information concerning their entire business are essential to the enforcement
of the law, and Congress has the power to establish
rules and regulations requiring them to keep books and
to file reports covering their entire business, interstate
and intrastate, in the manner and form prescribed by the
Interstate Commerce Commission. In the keeping of
books and the making of reports showing receipts and
expenditures, it is impracticable to separate business
which is intrastate from that which is interstate and re-quiring such knowledge and information concerning such
intrastate business is not regulation thereof. The Daniel
Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 479,
480; United States v. Northern Securities Co., 193 U. S. 197,
335; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central
Railroad Company, 215 U. S. 452, 474; Baltimore & Ohio

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 199
224 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Railroad Company v. Interstate Commerce Comnission,
221 U. S. 612, 618; Southern Railway Company v. United
States, 222 U. S. 20, 26.
By § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized and empowered to prescribe the method of bookkeeping for and
to prescribe the forms of reports and to compel the filing
thereof by water line carriers subject to the provisions of
the act, as to business other than that carried by them
under arrangements with railroad companies for a continuous carriage or shipment. The method of bookkeeping
and the forms prescribed by the Interstate Commerce
Commission under § 20, which embrace all business, interstate and intrastate, and of whatsoever kind or nature,
are in accordance with the intention of Congress as expressed in its legislation on the subject.
Section 20 is not unconstitutional on the ground that
it authorizes unreasonable searches apid seizures. Hale
v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 77; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, supra; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, supra; Flint v.
Stone Tracy Company, supra.
Section 20 is not unconstitutional on the ground that
it vests legislative power in the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. Ralph M. Shaw, with whom Mr. John Barton Payne,
Mr. Silas H. Strawn and Mr. GarrardB. 'Winston were on
the brief, for appellees:
The Act to Regulate Commerce does not provide that
a water carrier, by filing a joint rate with respect to certain
traffic with a rail carrier, subjects itself, or all of its business, to all of the provisions of the act.
Congress did not intend to include the water carriers
within the terms of the act.
If the appellees are wrong as to this (and it is insisted

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

224 U. S.

they are not), only certain specifically designated traffic of
the water carriers is subject to the act.
This appears from: The history of the passage of the
act of 1887, including the congressional. debates thereon;
contemporaneous construction by the courts; contemporaneous interpretation by the Commission itself; the
congressional debates prior to the passage of the act of
1906; the act of 1910, which prohibits the interpretation
urged by the Commission; the internal evidence of the
act; a comparison of certain provisions of the act with
specific legislation in re water carriers; and the rules
laid down by the courts for the interpretation of the Act
to Regulate Commerce, all of which preclude the interpretation placed upon it by the Commission in this case.
One engaged in intrastate business, who also engages
in interstate business, does not, thereby, subject all his
intrastate business to the regulating power of Congress.
Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 502; B. & 0. R. R.
Co. v. I. C. C., 221 U. S. 612, 618; Cin., N. 0. & Tex. Pac.
Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 184. The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall. 557, explained and distinguished.
An act of Congress, or the order of an officer of the
Federal Government, or a subordinate body, created by an
act of Congress, or a decree of a Federal court which under
the guise or the pretense of regulating interstate commerce,
is so broad in its scope as to in fact regulate or interfere
with intrastate commerce, is void.
Under such circumstances, especially when the act is
penal, the court will not introduce words of limitation
and thus by judicial interpretation attempt to make good
that which in its essence is void. Illinois Central v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514, 529; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co.
v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 247; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 492, 498, 502; United States v. Reese, 92
U. S. 214, 221; Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 99; United
States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 262.

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 201
224 .U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Section 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce is void
because it is an unlawful delegation of legislative power.
The law gives the Commission discretion to determine
whether it will legislate or not; the law also confers discretionary power upon the Commission to determine what
(if any) the legislation shall be. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
645, 693; Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 43; Harriman
v. Int. Com. Comm., 211 U. S. 407,418; O'Neil v. Am. Fire
Ins. Co., 30 Atl. Rep. 943; Anderson v. Manchester FireIns.
Co., 63 N. W. Rep. 241; Dowling v. Lancashire Ins. Co.,
65 N. W. Rep. 758; King v. ConcordiaFire Ins. Co., 103
N. W. Rep. 616.
On this point the cases at bar are not, for several reasons,
controlled by either United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506, or St. Louis & Iron Mountain R. R. Co. v. Taylor,
210 U. S. 281.
A conspicuous reason is that in the cases at bar Congress
did not determine or legislate that there should or ought
to be any rules or regulations respecting bookkeeping
methods or any uniformity therein. On the contrary,
Congress left it to the Commission in their discretion to
determine: Whether there should be any legislation on the
subject at all;-and if so, to enact such legislation. Itwasthus
a complete divestiture or delegation of legislative power.
Whether or not a power claimed but not granted is a
necessary incident to the power granted is (where the
facts are not conceded) to be determined by the court.
If under the pretense of exercising a power granted
Congress or a subordinate body goes beyond that which
is necessary, then such action on the part of Congress or
its subordinate body is void: Int. Com. Comm. v. Ill.
Cent., 215 U. S. 452; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161;
C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Atlantic Coast
Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Union Pacific Co., 222 U. S. 541.

•OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

224 U. S.

Under our dual form of government the Federal Government is supreme in the field of interstate commerce and
the state governments are supreme in the field of intrastate
commerce. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 472; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515; Ableman v. Booth, 21 How.
506; License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 498; Pennsylvania v. Knight, 192 U. S.
28; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. I. C. C., 221 U. S.612, 617, 621.
Section 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce and the
orders of the Commission both in re "Special Accounting Methods," and in re "Special Reports Series Circular
No. 10," are void. They are not a regulation of the rates on
which interstate commerce moves; they are not a regulation of the zoad bed over which interstate commerce moves;
they are not a regulation of the vehicles in which interstate commerce is carried; they are not a regulation of
the employds engaged in handling interstate commerce;
they are not a regulation of interstate commerce itself.
On the contrary they are an interference with the internal
affairs of the appellees; they prohibit the appellees from
keeping for their corporate purposes such books as in
their own judgment the corporate necessities may require;
they prohibit a common carrier engaged as to any part of
its business in interstate commerce from keeping any
books or memoranda not prescribed by the Commission
.with respect to any business which is not under the Act to
Regulate Interstate Commerce.
. In the cases at bar there are no troublesome
questions
involving the necessity of regulating intrastate commerce
in order to regulate interstate commerce. While the appellees deny that Congress intended to subject any of the
water carriers to any regulation, nevertheless (assuming
for the purposes of this point that they are wrong in this
contention), each of the four bills of complaint states in
apt language that it is not necessary for the Commission
to establish the assailed accounting methods or to make

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 203
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the assailed inquiries respecting the intrastate business,
and the internal affairs of the appellees in order to properly
regulate or investigate their interstate business. Each of
the bills states in apt language that there is no necessary
or legitimate or reasonable relation between many of the
rules. and regulations and many of the inquiries made
affecting and respecting interstate business, and the appropriate regulation or investigation of the interstate
business. These facts are admitted by the demurrers.
Congress has no power to make a general inquisitorial
excursion or examination into the internal affairs of a
corporation organized under the laws of one of the States.
Angell & Ames, § 687; Guthrie v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148;
Sinking Fund Case, 99 U. S. 720; Northern Securities Co.
v. United States, 193 U. S. 348; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.
75; In re Pacific Railway Investigation, 32 Fed. Rep. 241;
Interstate Com. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Wilson
v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, 384.
Congress may not inquire into the internal affairs of a
state corporation except for 6ertain specific purposes.
Kilbourne v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; In re Chapman, 166
U. S. 661; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
478; Harrimanv. Inter. Com. Comm., 211 U. S. 407, 417;
Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, 384.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees in these four cases are corporations organized under state laws and engaged in the carriage of
passengers and freight by water upon the Great Lakes.
They filed bills in the United States Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Illinois to enjoin the enforcement of
certain orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The cases were afterwards transferred to the United
States Commerce Court.
The orders of the Commission complained of comprise:
First, an order prescribing the method of accounts and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

bookkeeping as to the operating expenses of the carriers
and a similar order as to bookkeeping concerning the
operating revenues of the carriers; and, second, an order
requiring a report of the carriers respecting their corporate
organization, financial condition, etc..
The Government of the United States intervened and
filed an answer in each case, but the cases were practically
heard on demurrer, as the record discloses, and therefore
the allegations of the bills well pleaded must be deemed
to be true. The bills contain many conclusions, and argumentative deductions as to the effect of the orders upon
the carriers, which, under the rules of pleading, are not
considered as admitted. United States v. Ames, 99 U. S.
35, 45.
The pertinent averments necessary to a decision of the
cases, as we view them, show that the carriers are corporations organized under the laws of certain States of the
Union; that they carry passengers. and freight upon the
Great Lakes between ports in different States, which
they designate as their port-to-port interstate business;
that they carry passengers and freight wholly within a
State, which they designate as their port-to-port intrastate business; and that they also carry passengers and
property in interstate commerce under joint tariffs in
connection with certain railroad carriers of the United
States with whom they have agreed upon joint through
rates., which they designate as their joint rail and water
business. As to the Goodrich Transit Company, it is
averred that eighty per cent of its .gross revenue is derived
from its port-to-port interstate and intrastate business,
and less than twenty per cent of its gross earnings is derived from its joint rail and water business. A like averment is made with respect to the White Star Line, except
that it is said that in its business the revenue derived from
joint rail and water traffic, as aforesaid, is less than one
per cent of its entire revenue.

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 205
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is averred that the bookkeeping and accounting
methods required by the orders of the Commission differ
from those prescribed and now kept by the companies;
that the orders of the Commission make no difference between the intrastate port-to-port business and the interstate port-to-port business and the joint rail and water
business; and that the orders entered by the Commission
prohibit the companies from keeping-any accounts, records
or memoranda other than those prescribed by the Commission in such orders.
In the White Star Line cases the bills contain an additional averment that that company operates two amusement parks, one at Tashmoo and one at Sugar Island, both
in the State of Michigan, and in connection therewith
owns, operates and derives revenue from lunch stands,
merry-go-rounds, bowling alleys, bath houses, etc., and
collects admission fees from people entering the parks. It
complains that its business concerning said parks is included within the accounting methods prescribed by the
Commission.
As to the report called for by the order of the Commission, it is averred that such report was not required. because of any complaint filed against the corporations for
the violation of the Act to Regulate Commerce; that there
is no statute requiring the report to be kept secret, and,
if it is made public, the affairs of the companies will be
thrown open to inspection to their injury; that a large
number of the inquiries contained in the order of the
Commission relate to details of the companies' business
solely intrastate, or that which is from port to port; and
that the report is not limited to the joint rail and water
business of complainants.
There are also averments that the orders were unconstitutional, because the Commission, in undertaking to
put in force such requirements, exceeded its authority in
so far as the power was asserted to examine into the af-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

fairs of the companies not relating to their joint rail and
Water business, and having reference, as it was alleged, to
their domestic business or interstate business not within
the terms of the act.
The Commerce Court enjoined the execution of the orders (190 Fed. Rep. 943), declaring that (p. 966):
"It [the Commission] acted within its authority when
it made an order calling for reports of all business done by
the petitioners under through bills of lading where the
transportation was partly by railroad from one State to
another, or from one place in the United States to Canada,
an adjacent foreign country; and it was within its power
when it prescribed the system of accounts and the uniform
method of keeping accounts for such interstate business,
and so far as the orders call for information confined to
such traffic, or directly related thereto, and so far as the
orders prescribe uniform systems of bookkeeping and accounting for such traffic and such as is directly related
thereto, they must be sustained. But, in so far as the
reports called for and the accounting rules prescribed extend beyond such interstate business of the carriers, or
include matters of intrastate traffic accounts and affairs
and concerns exclusively, they become invasions of the
rights of the carriers, and to the extent of such invasions
are unlawful."
The court held that the orders concerning the report
and auditing would be lawful respecting the interstate
business done by the carriers in connection with railroads,
as provided by the act, but, in requiring a report concerning the other business of the companies and prescribing
bookkeeping methods therefor, the Commission exceeded
its authority, and the court granted the prayers of the
petitioners for the orders of injunction, ordered a recast
of the form of report in conformity with its opinion and
remanded the cases to the Commission for that purpose.
Whether this order of the Commerce Court was correct

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 207
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or not primarily depends upon the construction of the
Interstate Commerce Act and the extent to which, in the
respect involved in these cases, the carriers herein interested are within the terms of the law. The terms of the
act of Congress, as amended June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584,
c. 3591, and in force at the time when these orders were
made, are plain and simple, and, we think, not difficult to
comprehend. They are: "The provisions of this act [to
regulate commerce] shall apply to . . . any.common
carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of pas-.
sengers or property wholly by railroad (or partly by railroad and partly by water when both are used under a
common control, management, or arrangement for a
continuous carriage or shipment), from one State or
Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia,
to any other State or Territory of the United States, etc."
The proviso, at the end of the section, that its terms shall
not apply to the transportation of passengers or property wholly within one State was inserted for the purpose
of showing the congressional purpose not to undertake to
regulate a commerce wholly domestic. The first section
makes the act apply alike to common carriers engaged in
the transportation of passengers or property wholly by
railroad or partly by railroad and partly by water under
an arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment.
It is conceded that the carriers filing the bills in these cases
were common carriers engaged in the transportation of
passengers and property partly by railroad and partly by
water under a joint arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment. Such common carriers are declared
to be subject to the provisions of the act in precisely the
same terms as those which comprehend the other companies named in the act. Carriers partly by railroad and
partly by water under a common arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment are as. specifically within
the terms of the act as any other carrier named therein.

208*

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

It may be that certain provisions of the act are in their
nature applicable to some carriers and not to others; but
we are only concerned to inquire in this case whether the
carriers thus broadly brought within the terms of the act
by § 1 thereof are subject to the provisions of the statute
by the authority of 'which the Commission undertook to
require the system of accounting and the report as to the
organization and business of the corporations, and whethor,
if within the terms of the act, the orders are constitutionally made.
Certain it is that, when engaged in carrying on traffic
under joint rates with railroads, filed with the Commission,
the carriers are bound to deal upon like terms with all
shippers who seek to avail themselves of such joint rates,
and are subject to the general requirements of the act
preventing and punishing the giving of rebates, the making
of unjust discriminations, the showing of favoritism and
other practices denounced in the various sections of the
act. They are undoubtedly subject to the provisions of
§ 12 of the act, which permits the Commission to inquire
into the management of the business of all common carriers subject to the act and to keep itself informed as to
the manner and method in which the same is conducted,
with the right to obtain from such common carriers the
full and complete information necessary to enable the
Commission to carry out the objects for which it was
created. The joint rates established are subject to revision
by the Commission under § 15 of the act. We must remember, also, in this connection, that under § 21 of the act
the Commission is required to make a report each year to
the Congress containing such information and. data as
may be considered of value in the determination of questions connected with the regulation of comnierce, together
with such recommendations as to additional legislation as
the Commission may see fit to make.
As to annual reports, the power conferred in § 20 of the

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 209
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act extends to all common carriers subject to the provisions
of the act. The Commission is vested with authority to
prescribe the manner in which such reports shall be made
and to require specific answers-to all questions as to which
the Commission may need information. The report required in these cases was declared to be needed to enable
the Commission to procure full information of the scope
and character of the business of carriers by water within
the jurisdiction of the Commission and of the extent of
their operations, such as would enable the Commission to
determine the form for annual report which would best
give the information required by the Commission, and at
the same time conform as nearly as may be to the accounting systems of carriers by water.
The form of report adopted by the Commission requires
a showing as to the corporate organization of each carrier
by water subject to the act, the companies owned by it
and the parties or companies controlling it; as to the
financial condition of the carrier, the cost of its real property and equipment, its capital stock and other stock and
securities owned by it, together with all special funds and
current assets and liabilities, as well as its funded indebtedness, with collateral security covering same; and as to
finances with respect to the operations of the carrier for
the current year, giving the revenue of the company and
its source, whether from transportation, and what kind, or
from outside operations, and all expenses, detailed, with
a statement as to the net income or deficit from the various
sources, and the report contains a profit and loss account
and a general balance sheet. The report further requires
certain statistical information, as follows: The routes of
the carrier and their mileage; a general description of the
equipment owned, leased or chartered by the carrier; the
amount of traffic, both passenger and freight, and mileage
and revenue statistics, together with a separation of freight
into the quantity of the various products transported,
VOL. ccxxiv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinioaof the Court.

224 U. S.

showing also whether originating on the carrier's line or
received from a connecting line; and a general description
of any separate business carried on by the carrier. But
such report is no broader than the annual report of such
carriers, as prescribed by the act, for § 20 provides that:
"Such annual reports shall show in detail the amount
of capital stock issued, the amounts paid therefor, and the
manner of paytnent for the same; the dividends paid, the
surplus fund, if any, and the number of stockholders; the
funded and floating debts and the interest paid thereon;
the cost and value of the carrier's property franchises,
and equipments; the number of employ6s and the salaries
paid each class; the accidents to passengers, employ6s,
and other persons, and the causes thereof; the amounts
expended for improvements each year, how expended, and
the character of such improvements; the earnings and
receipts from each branch of business, and from all sources;
the operating and other expenses; the balances of profit and
loss; and a complete exhibit of the financial operations of
the carrier each year, including an annual balance sheet.
Such reports shall also contain such information in relation to rates or regulations concerning fares or freights, or
agreements, airangements, or contracts affecting the same
as the Commission may require."
As to the accounts, the statute permits the Commission,
-in its discretion, for the purpose of enabling it the better
to carry out the purposes of the act, to prescribe a period
of time within which such common carriers shall have a
uniform system of accounts and the manner in which
such accounts shall be kept. The Commission may, the
statute further provides, in its discretion, prescribe the
forms of all accounts, records and memoranda to be kept
by the common carriers, to which accounts the Commission
shall have access. And the act makes it unlawful for the
carriers to keep any accounts, records or memoranda
other than those prescribed by the Commission.

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 211
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We think this section contains ample authority for the
Commission to require a system of accounting as provided
in its orders and a report in the form shown to have been
required by the order of the Commission. It is true that
the accounts required to 'be kept are general in their nature
and embrace business other than such as is necessary to
the discharge of the duties required in carrying passengers
and freight in interstate commerce by joint arrangement
between the railroad and the water carrier, but the Commission is charged under the law with the supervision of
such rates as to their reasonableness and with the general
duty of making reports to Congress which might require
a knowledge of the business of the carrier beyond that
which is strictly of the character mentioned. If the Commission is to successfully perform its duties in respect to
reasonable rates, undue discriminations and favoritism, it
must be informed as to the business of the carriers by a
system of accounting which will not permit the possible
concealment of forbidden practices in accounts which it
is not permitted to see and concerning which it can require
no information. It is a mistake to suppose that the requiring of information concerning the business methods of such
corporations, as shown in their accounts, is a regulation
of business not within the jurisdiction of the Commission,
as seems to be argued for the complainants. The object
of requiring such accounts to be kept in a uniform way and
to be open to the inspection of the Commission is not to
enable, it to regulate the affairs of the corporations not
within its jurisdiction, but to be informed concerning the
business methods of the corporations subject to the act
that it may properly regulate such matters as are really
within its jurisdiction. Further, the requiring of information concerning a business is not regulation of that business. The necessity of keeping such accounts has been
developed in the reports of the Commission and has been
the subject of great consideration. It caused the employ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

ment of those skilled in such matters' and has resulted in
the adoption of a general form of accounting which will
enable the Commission to examine into the affairs of the
corporations, with a view to discharging its duties of
regulation concerning them.
There is nothing in the case of Harriman v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 211 U. S. 407, contrary to the conclusion herein announced. That case dealt with the
authority of the Commission to compel the attendance and
testimony of witnesses in cases where complaints had not
been made. The extent to which the Commission might
require systems of accounting and reports of corporations
subject to the act was expressly left open in the opinion
of the court. 211 U. S. pp. 421, 422.
The necessity of such accounts is emphasized under the
English practice, and accounts and reports are required in
great detail under the laws of that country.
In the report of the committee appointed by the Board
of Trade under the Railway Regulation Acts to make
inquiries with respect to the form and scope of the accounts and statistical returns rendered by railway companies the omission of the former law to make provision
for any prescribed and uniform system of accounts is
pointed out, and it is said:
"It is obviously of the first importance, from the point
of view of comparison between the different railway
companies, that there should be uniformity of practice
among all the companies with regard to the keeping of
accounts and statistics; that is to say, that every heading,
both in the accounts and in the statistics, should bear
precisely the same meaning in the case of all railwaysshould, in effect, be standardized."
The Railway Companies (Accounts and Returns)
Act, December 16, 1911, 1 and 2 Geo. 5, c. 34,-to
amend the laws with respect to accounts and returns of
railway companies-contains requirements as to finan-

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 213
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cial accounts and statistical returns which call for a uniform system of accounting, showing the organization and
workings of the companies in great detail, together with
statistical returns as to their business, subdivided so as
to include all the operations of the companies as carriers
and in all other enterprises in which they may engage.
The learned Commerce Court was of the opinion that
the Commission might require accounts and reports, so
far as the business of the water carriers with reference to
joint rates by rail and water under a common arrangement
was concerned, and remanded the cases to the Commission
for revision of their orders upon that basis. But it is
argued for the Commission, and it seems to us with great
force, that it would be impracticable to make such separation in any system of accounting. It is a matter of general
knowledge, of which we may take judicial notice, that
traffic of all kinds is conducted upon the same ship and
passage. A boat may leave a lake port carrying passengers and freight destined for ports within the State
and for ports beyond the State, and as a part of the
freight for carriage embrace some carried under the terms
of joint arrangements made with connecting railroad
carriers. How would it be practicable to separate the
items of expense entailed in the carriage of these various
classes? It is done upon one boat, with one set of officers
and crew, and must, in the nature of things, be under
one general bill of expense-at least it would seem impracticable to separate it into its items so as to show the
expense of that which it is contended is alone within the
terms of the act, as construed by the carriers.
We think the act should be given a practical construction, and one which will enable the Commission to perform
the duties required of it by Congress, and, conceding for
this purpose that the regulating power of the Commission
is limited so far as rates are concerned to joint rates of
the character named in § 1, it is still essential that to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

enable the Commission to perform its required duties,
even with respect to such rates, and to make reports to
Congress of-the business of carriers subject to the terms
of the act, it should be informed as to the matters contained in the report. Congress, in § 20, has authorized
the Commission to inquire as to the business which the
the carrier does and to require the keeping of uniform
accounts, in order that the Commission may know just
how the business is carried on, with a view to regulating
that which is confessedly within its power.
It is contended that this construction of the statute
enables the Commission not only to regulate the interstate business, but as well the wholly intrastate business
of the complaining corporations, and is, therefore, beyond
the power of Congress.. Such cases are cited and relied
upon by complainants as the Employers' Liability Cases,
207 U. S. 463, and Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. McKendree,
203 U. S. 514. In those cases acts of Congress and orders
of executive departments were held void because they
undertook to regulate matters wholly intrastate, as distinguished from those matters of an interstate character
and within the legislative power of Congress. And what
we have already said as to the character of these orders
is enough to indicate that in our opinion they are -notregulations of intrastate commerce.
Furthermore, it is said that such construction of § 20
makes it an unlawful delegation of legislative power to
the Commission. We cannot agree to this contention.
The Congress may not delegate its purely legislative
power to a commission, but, having laid down the general
rules of action under which a commission shall proceed, it
may require of that commission the application of suqh
rules to particular situations and the investigation of
facts, with a view to making orders in a particular matter
within the rules laid down by the Congress. This rule has
been frequently stated and illustrated in recent cases in

INT. COM. COMM. v. GOODRICH TRANSIT CO. 215
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this court, and needs no amplification here. Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 384; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506.
In § 20 Congress has authorized the Commission to require annual reports. The act itself prescribes in detail
what those reports shall contain. The Commission is
permitted, in its discretion, to require a uniform system of
accounting, and to prohibit other methods of accounting
than those which the Commission may prescribe. In
other words, Congress has laid down general rules for the
guidance of the Commission, leaving to it merely the
carrying out of details in the exercise of the power so
conferred. This, we think, is not a delegation of legislative authority.
And it is argued that Congress has no visitorial power
over state corporations. We need not reassert -the
ample power which the Constitution has been construed
to confer upon Congress in the regulation of interstate
commerce, declared in the many cases in this court, from
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1, to its most recent deliverances. In Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 75, while
general visitorial power over state corporations was not
asserted to be within the power of Congress, it was nevertheless declared as to interstate commerce that the
General Government had, in the vindication of its own
laws, the same power it would possess if the corporation
had been created by act of Congress.
As to one of the corporations it is said that its business
includes not only the carriage of passengers and freight,
but that it owns and operates in connection therewith certain. amusement parks. The report in controversy, as to
business other than commerce, requires a general description of such outside operations, and also a statement
of the income from and the expenses of the same. As
we have said, if the Commission is to be informed of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

business of the corporation, so far as its bookkeeping
and reports are concerned, it must have full knowledge
and full disclosures thereof, in order that it may ascertain whether forbidden practices and discriminations are
concealed, even unintentionally, in certain accounts and
whether charges of expense are made against one part of a
business which ought to be made against another.
Bookkeeping, it is said, is not interstate commerce.
True, it is not. But bookkeeping may and ought to show
how a business which, in part at least, is interstate commerce, is carried on, in order that the Commission, charged
with the duty of making reasonable rates and prohibiting
unfair and unreasonable ones, may know the nature and
extent of the business of the corporation, the cost of its
interstate transactions and otherwise to inform itself so
as to enable it to properly regulate the matters which are
within its authority.
We think the uniform system of accounting prescribed
and the report called for are such as it is within the power
of the Commission to require under § 20 of the act. Nor
do the requirements exceed the constitutional authority
of Congress to pass such a law. It therefore follows that
the Commerce Court erred in granting the injunctions
and in remanding the cases to the Commission with instructions to recast its orders.
Judgments reversed.
Dissenting, MR. JUSTICE LURTON and MR. JUSTICE
LAMAR.

