SHARPE v. BONHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

descendants, before the expiration of the preceding estates.
As already stated, all the daughters were parties to the
suit brought in 1865; and all consented to the decree, save
the married daughter who was under age and whose interests were duly protected by the court. It follows that
the purchasers under the decree acquired a good title.
The complainant was entitled to the relief sought.
Decree affirmed.

SHARPE v. BONHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 396.

Submitted March 12, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

In a controversy which embraces the rights of an association, the
-mastery of which is claimed by both complainants and defendants,
the trustees of the association are properly made parties defendant
and are not to be realigned by the court on the side of the complainant for jurisdictional purposes. Helm v. Zarecor, 222 U. S. 32.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John M. Gaut for appellants.
Mr. W. C. Caldwell, with whom Mr. Frank Slemons,
Mr. J. I. Zarecor" and Mr. W. B. Lamb were on the brief,
for appellees.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

By

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES.

Appeal from decree dismissing the bill for want of
jurisdiction.
VOL. ccXxiv-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

The suit was brought by members of a religious society
in Nashville, Tennessee, known as Grace Church, citizens
of States other than Tennessee, against the pastor and
elders of another religious society calling itself Grace
Cumberland Presbyterian Church, and also against three
individuals described as trustees, who hold the legal title
to certain land and a house of worship, all the defendants
being citizens of Tennessee. The controversy grew out
of the proceedings to consolidate the Cumberland Presbyterian Church with the Presbyterian Church in the
United States of America. It was alleged in the bill that
the union had been legally effected, and the complainants
sought decree that the church property be declared to be
held in trust for the congregation which adhered to the
alleged united body.
The defendants, other than the trustees, filed a plea
to the jurisdiction, alleging that the trustees, "who are
alleged to hold the legal title of the property described
and involved, are indispensable parties complainant, and
yet, as these defendants aver, those persons are improperly
and collusively joined as defendants for the purpose of
creating a case cognizable in this honorable court;" and
it was also asserted that parties had been improperly
and collusively omitted for the same purpose. The court
dismissed the bill, and in its certificate states that the
dismissal was upon the ground that the three defendants,
trustees, were not antagonistic to the complainants, and
should be aligned upon. the same side of the controversy;
and, therefore, as some of the complainants and some of
the defendants were citizens of the same State, the court
was without jurisdiction.
The case is not to be distinguished from Helm v. Zarecor,
222 U. S. 32.. There the controversy arising from the
same proceedings, having in view the union of the two
religious bodies, related to the property and management
of an incorporated committee of publication, or publishing

CONVERSE v. HAMILTON.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

agency, known as the Board of Publication of the Cumberland Presbyterian Church. It was held that to align
the corporation itself with the complainants was virtually
to decide the merits in their favor; that the corporation
was simply a title holder-an instrumentality, the mastery
of which was in dispute; and that it was properly made a
party defendant.
As, in that case, the controversy embraced the fundamental question of the rights of the religious associations,
said to be represented by the respective parties, to control
the corporite agency and to have the benefit in their
denominational work of the corporate property, so here
the controversy is with respect to the control of the church
property which the three trustees hold in trust. These
trustees were not indispensable parties complainant as
alleged in the plea, and, as mere title holders, they were
properly made parties defendant. The court erred in
aligning them with the complainants.
Decree reversed.

CONVERSE, RECEIVER, v. HAMILTON.
SAME v. McCAULEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.
Nos. 42, 43.

Argued November 7, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.

This court looks to the constitution and statutes of a State and the
decisions of its courts to determine the nature, extent, and method
of enforcing the liability of stockholders of a corporation of that
State.
The provisions of the Minnesota constitution imposing double liability
on stockholders of corporations other than those carrying on manufacturing or mechanical business is self-executing, and under it eck

