OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

HERNDON-CARTER COMPANY v. JAMES N.
NORRIS, SON & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 923. Submitted April 1, 1912.-Decided April 29, 1912.
Where jurisdiction of the Circuit Court involves only the questions
of fact whether the defendant corporation was doing business within
the jurisdiction and the person served was its agent, those questions
can be brought by direct appeal to this court under ยง 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of .1891.
The decree of dismissal can take the place of a certificate if the record
is in such form as to show that the case was dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, and for that reason only. Excelsior Water Power Co. v.
Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282.
While the jurisdictional certificate must be issued during the term at
which the question is decided, if the certificate is supplied by a
decree in due form showing all that is required by the certificate,
the appeal may be perfected within two years, as are other appeals.
Excelsior Water Power Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282.
In this case the record shows that there was but one final order or
decree which at the same time quashed the service of the summons
and dismissed the case for want of jurisdiction; and an appeal from
such a decree brings to this court the question of jurisdiction.
A foreign corporation in order to be subject to the jurisdiction of a
court must be doing business within the State of the court's jurisdiction, and the service must be made there upon some duly authorized officer or agent.
In this case, as it appears from the evidence in the record that the defendant corporation was doing business within the State and that
the person served was its agent at the time of service, the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the Western District of Kentucky over the
person of the defendant by reason of service on defend-

ant's agent and whether defendant was doing btisiness in
that District, are stated in the opinion.-

HERNDON-CARTER CO. v. NORRIS & CO.
224 U. S.

497

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Helm Bruce for appellant.
Mr. John H. Chandler and Mr. William B. Fleming for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case a suit was brought by the Herndon-Carter
Company, a corporation of the State of Kentucky., against
James N. Norris, Son & Company, a corporation of the
State of New York. The bill of complaint sought an
accounting and settlement of transactions between the
parties growing Out of shipments of poultry from the
Kentucky corporation to the New York corporation, sold
by the latter on commission. A subpoena was issued and
served on March 10, 1911, upon James N. Norris, Son &
Company by delivering a copy to W. J. Adams, as manager
and chief agent, and the highest officer of the company in
the district. The defendant company entered a special
appearance, and filed an objection and plea to the jurisdiction, setting up that it was a corporation of the State
of New York; that since December, 1904, it had not had
any place of business in the State of Kentucky, and had
not conducted any business in that State; that since that
time it had had no agent in the State of Kentucky; and
that W. J. Adams was not at the time of the service of the
writ the manager and officer or agent of the defendant.
The defendant averred further that for a little more than
two years before the first of January, 1905, Adams was
employed by it and acted as its agent in Kentucky in the
purchase and shipment of poultry and produce, but that
at the end of the year 1904 he severed his connection with
defendant and ceased to be its agent for any purpose
whatever; that on January 1, 1905, Adams, James N.
Norris and William H. Norris formed a partnership, in
which Adams had an one-half interest and James N.
VOL. ccxxiv-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

Norris and William H. Norris each an one-quarter interest,
and that since the first of January, 1905, the partnership
had conducted the business of buyers and shippers of
poultry, butter and eggs in Louisville and other parts of
Kentucky.
Upon testimony, to be hereinafter referred to, the Circuit Court heard the parties upon the issues made by the
plea to the jurisdiction and replication thereto, and concluded that Adams was not the agent at the time of the
attempted service upon him as such, and that James N.
Norris, Son & Company was not then doing business in
the State of Kentucky.
The case is brought directly here under ยง 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 826,
c. 517). It is evident from a statement of the question
made that it only involves issues of fact as to whether the
defendant company was doing business in Kentucky, and
whether Adams was its agent at the time of the attempted
service. It is well settled that a question of this character
may be brought to this court by direct appeal under the
Circuit Court of Appeals Act. Remington v. CentralPacific
R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 95; Commercial Mutual Accident Co.
v. Davis, 213 U. S. 245, 256; Mechanical Appliance Co. v.
Castleman, 215 U. S. 437.
The appellee objects that the statutory requirement
that the question Of jurisdiction only shall be certified to
this court was not complied with, and therefore the case
should be dismissed. The'record, however, discloses that
the case was dismissed for the want of jurisdiction, and
for that reason only. Where the decree of dismissal is in:
such form it is sufficient to take the place of a certificate
within the requirements of the act. Excelsior W. P. Co.
v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282.
It is further objected that, if the decree could be held to
take the place of a certificate, the present appeal was-not
taken at the term during which the case was decided and

HERNDON-CARTER CO. v. NORRIS & CO.
224 U. S.

499

Opinion of the Court.

the decree of dismissal entered. The record shows that
an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals from
the decree of dismissal entered at the March term, 1911,
of the Circuit Court. It was there dismissed, and at the
October term, 1911, another appeal was allowed from the
Circuit Court directly to this court. This court has held
that the jurisdictional certificate must be issued during
the term at which the question is decided. Colvin v.
Jacksonville, 158 U. S. 456; The Bayonne, 159 U.. S. 687.
It has also been held that the certificate being supplied by
a decree in *due form, showing dismissal for want of jurisdiction only, the appeal may be perfected subsequently,
within two years, as are other appeals. Excelsior W. P.
Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., supra.
The appellee further contends that the record shows
two decrees or orders-an order quashing the service of
summons and separately a decree of dismissal for want of
jurisdiction-and this is said to be shown because the
opinion of the court, sent up with the, record, states the
decision upon the question of quashing service of summons
to have been first made. An inspection of the record
shows but one final order or decree, which at the same
time quashes the service of summons and dismisses the
case for want of jurisdiction, and that is the decree appealed from and which brings to this court the question of
jurisdiction of the defendant.
It has frequently been held in this court that a foreign
corporation, in order to be subject to the jurisdiction of a
court, must be doing business within the State of the
court's jurisdiction, and serviceinust there be made upon
some duly authorized officer or agent.. St. Clair v. Cox,
.106 U. S. 350; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518;
Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pac.Ry., 205 U. S. 364.
We are therefore brought. to review the correctness of the
decision of the Circuit Court, holding that James N.
Norris, Son & Company was not doing business in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

State of Kentucky, and that Adams was not its agent at
the time of the attempted service.
The substance of the plea to the jurisdiction, already
indicated, is that, while Adams had previously been the
agent of the defendant, he ceased to be such on the first
of January, 1905, when the copartnership was formed between James N. Norris and William H. Norris, officers of
the defendant company, and Adams, and that thereafter
he ceased to represent the corporation in Kentucky, and
it ceased to do business in that State. To support this
plea the defendant offered the affidavits of James N.
Norris and William H. Norris to the effect that after,
January 1, 1905, the corporation did no business in Kentucky, and that the partnership then formed thereafter
carried on the business in that State under the name of
James N. Norris, Son & Company. The testimony of
the bookkeeper was taken. She testified that she had
been in the employ of James N. Norris, Son & Company
for some time prior toJanuary 1, 1905, and that at that
date a change was made owing to the formation of the
partnership. She further testified that the profits were
divided on the books but no settlements were made while
she was with the firm; that she drew no checks for the
distribution of the profits, and that there was no such
distribution while she was with the firm, which was until
December, 1908; that the books did not show the individual accounts of the various members of the firm;
that Mr. Adams had an individual account, but she, the
bookkeeper, did not keep it, Mr. Adams keeping it himself; that Mr. Adams was paid a salary, and that statements were sent to New York giving the condition of the
business, Mr. Adams was called as a witness and t6stified
that he worked for the New York corporation prior to
January 1, 1905, when the partnership was formed, and
that since that time he had no connection with the New
York cumpany in any way, and was not on the ninth of

HERNDON-CARTER CO. v. NORRIS & CO.
224 U. S.

501

Opinion of the Court.

March, 1911, its agent. Upon cross-examination he testified that after January 1, 1905, and until the date of
his examination as a witness, his relations to the house of
James N. Norris, Son & Company had been the same, and
that his relations to the New York corporation had not
changed in any way since February 1905.
To meet this testimony the complainant offered testimony tending to show that James N. Norris, Son & Company was sued in the Jefferson Circuit Court of Kentucky
as a corporation of the State of New Jersey. The corporation appeaed and answered that it was organized under
the laws of New York, admitted that it executed and
delivered a certain letter attached to plaintiff's petition
and marked "Exhibit A," dated June 25, 1907, the letter
being written from Louisville, Kentucky, signed James
N. Norris, Son & Company, by W. J. Adams, Manager.
In that action an affidavit for a continuance was filed on
April 17, 1908, in which Adams deposed that the defendant, James N. Norris, Son & Company, was a corporation of New York and that deponent was the manager
of its Louisville office. On April 23, 1908, an amended
answer was filed, which Adams verified, making oath that
he was the local manager of James N. Norris, Son & Company. In the course of the action defendant took and
filed a deposition in which the witness testified that he
was the manager of James N. Norris, Son & Company at
Bryan, Ohio; that in 1907 he lived in Louisville, Kentucky,
and that Adams was then the manager of the Louisville
district.
In another suit against James N. Norris, Son & Company, Inc., an answer was filed by W. J. Adair s on December 12, 1905, and in verifying which Adams made
oath that he was then and at the times mentioned in the
answer had been the agent of the defendant in Kentucky
and had sole charge of its business in Jefferson County.
In an action brought by the corporation in a magis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

trate's court in Kentucky certain dray tickets on a printed
form were introduced in evidence, which showed them to
be the tickets of James N. Norris, Son & Company, 135
E. Jefferson Street, Louisville, Kentucky, and that J. N.
Norris was President; W. H. Norris, Vice-President and
Treasurer, and W. J. Adams, Manager, the tickets being
dated November 20, 1908, and January 1 and 4, 1909.
Letters were introduced in evidence in which the defendant company referred the plaintiff company to Mr. Adams
for a settlement of differences. On July 7, 1909, the defendant company wrote to the plaintiff company as follows:
"The Herndon-Carter Company, Louisville, Ky.
GENTLEMEN: I am just in receipt of your several letters
in which you call attention to the unpleasantness you are
having with our house in Louisville.
Now, I would like to make myself. plain in this matter.
As I have always stated to you and every one else, there
is never any good in fighting, but, on the contrary, lots of
money lost and harm done. Our Mr. Adams, who runs
our house in Louisville, has a certain interest in the profits,
and it would be pretty hard for me to say that he shouldn't
do this or that, which, in his judgment, curtails his profits."
Examining. and considering the evidence tending to
show that Adams, after the formation of the alleged
partnership on January 1, 1905, continued to represent
the defendant company in Louisville, we are forced to the
conclusion that the decided preponderance of the evidence
supports the complainant's contention that Adams was
the authorized managing agent of the defendant company
in Kentucky and doing business for it in that State.
The learned judge of the Circuit Court reached the
contrary conclusion, and his opinion is justly entitled to
great weight, but it seems to proceed upon the theory
that the testimony did not show the continuance of the

GULF, COL. & S. F. RY. v. DENNIS.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

agency down to March 10, 1911, the time of the service of
the subpoena. We think the testimony clearly shows that
the relation of Adams to the defendant company was
the same at that time as it had been when the various
transactions, to which we have referred, were taking place
in the years 1905 and the following. There could hardly
be stronger testimony than the defendant's own letter
of July 7, 1909, in which it is distinctly stated that
"Mr. Adams, who runs our house in Louisville, has a
certain interest in the profits," etc.
Reaching this conclusion, we are constrained to hold
that the court below erred in quashing the return to the
subpoena and in dismissing the case, and therefore the
.judgment must be reversed and the case remanded, with
directions to, overrule the order quashing the return and to
set aside the decree denying the jurisdiction of the court.
Reversed.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.
v. DENNIS.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MILAM COUNTY, STATE
OF TEXAS.
No. 203.

Submitted March 6, 1912.-Decided April 29, 1912.

The county court in Texas, being the highest court of the State to
which the case could be carried, considering the amount involved,
held that a railroad company was liable-not only for the damages
claimed, but also for an attorney's fee under Chapter 47, Laws of
Texas, 1909. The railroad company sued out a writ of error from
this court, having insisted in the state court that the statute violated
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Federal Constitution. Before the case was reached in this court, the highest court
of the State in another case adjudged the statute to be violative of
a provision in the state constitution and void. That fact being
brought to the attention of this court, held that:

