WORLD'S FAIR MINING CO. v. POWERS.
224 U. S.

173

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

unnecessary to discuss the bill in greater detail to show

that it cannot be maintained.
Decree dismissing bill affirmed.

WORLD'S FAIR MINING COMPANY v. POWERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 207. Argued March 11, 12, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.
The owner of a mine contracted with a purchaser for the latter to go
into possession and proceed, with the development of, and extract
ore from, the mine, and to deposit to the credit of the owner in a
designated bank the net proceeds up to a specified amount when
deeds to the property, deposited in escrow should be delivered.
The purchaser proceeded with the work, but deposited proceeds to
his own credit in another bank, whereupon the owner attached such
deposit and took forcible possession of the mine. In a suit brought
by the purchaser, held that:
The deposit of proceeds of ore in the specified bank was a condition
concurrent or precedent to the obligation of the owner to go on
with the contract; and, unless the declaration disclosed an excuse
for the breach, the owner was justified in retaking possession.
That the action of the owner in attaching the deposit was not
an excuse for a breach by the purchaser, nor did the declaration disclose any sufficient excuse for the breach.
Under the contract the act of the owner in suing for part of the
purchase price which belonged to him would not prevent him
from terminating the contract for failure to perform; there was
no election.
10 Arizona, 5, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for sale of mines and what constituted breaches thereof,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank H. Hereford, with whom Mr. F. E. Curley
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

The pleadings fully allege those conditions of the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

tract that the Arizona courts construed into a condition
precedent, fully allege nonperformance, and fully allege
excuses for nonperformance on the part of the plaintiff
in error.
If a party expressly avers or confesses a material fact
omitted on the other side, the omission is cured. Hill v.
George, 5 Texas, 87; McFarlandv. Mooring, 56 Texas, 118;
International & G. N. R. Co. v. Sein, 33 S. W. Rep. 558.
Many defects are waived and cured by pleading over,
that might have been fatal on demurrer. United States v.

Morris, 10 Wheat. 246, 283; 31 Cyc. 714.
The reply as a pleading on the part of plaintiff is especially authorized by the statutes of Arizona. Rev.
Stat. Arizona, 1901, par. 1357.
Pleadings will be construed most favorably towards
the pleader in determining whether or not the allegations
therein contained are sufficient to apprise the opposite
party of the questions of fact that the pleader will seek
to establish on the trial. United States v. Parker, 120 U. S.
89, 97.
The provisions of the contract relating to the depositing of proceeds of shipments of ore need not be specially
pleaded, because they were either, independent conditions
or conditions subsequent.
Payments to the credit of defendants in error for ore
shipped were not conditions precedent to the contract
nor to any rights thereunder. The contract did not make
such payments a condition precedent.
Setting forth in the contract those failures to perform
which would justify a termination of the contract, negatived any claims that a failure'to perform any of the other
conditions of the contract would authorize the aggtieved
party to terminate it. "Expressio unius est exclusio alterius" applies to contracts. Douglas v. Lewis, 131 U. S.
75; Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424, 436.
The putting of these deeds in escrow was an important

WORLD'S FAIR MINING CO. v. POWERS.
224 U. S.

175

Counsel for Defendants in Error.

and an expressed condition in the contract. New Orleans
v. Texas & P. Ry., 171 U. S. 334.
None of the parties to the contract intended that its
terms in relation thereto should be a condition precedent
and never afterwards considered them as such.
The escrow instructions of April 15, 1904, were not a
modification or amendment of the original contract, or
intended as such. Those instructions prescribed no penalty except the destruction of deeds deposited in escrow
for a failure to perform the conditions of the escrow. No
penalty could be claimed or enforced under the terms of
the escrow instruction until defendants in error had done
certain things that were never alleged to have been done
nor proved to have been done. 7 Ency. of U. S., Sup. C.
Rep. 264; 4 Id. 573.
The Supreme Court of Arizona has inferentially held
that the escrow instructions did not modify or become a
part of the original contract. Powers v. World's FairMining Co. (Ariz.), 86 Pac. Rep. 15; S. C., 100 Pac. Rep. 955.
What is implied is as effectual as what is expressed.
The intent of the parties as manifested is the contract.
Equitable Ins. Co. v. Hearne, 20 Wall. 494, 496; United
States v. Babbitt, 95 U. S. 334, 336.
Even if deposits to the credit of defendant in error of
the proceeds of ore shipped were a condition precedent
in the contract, then before the time for its performance,
defendants in error had elected not to so consider such
conditions, had waived the condition precedent, and had
elected to consider the contract unbroken by plaintiff
in error's failure to perform. 15 Cyc. 258 et seq.
The so-called condition precedent was satisfied and
complied with nine days before time for cofiplying with
it had arrived. Central Nat. Bank v. Conn. Mut. L. Ins.
Co., 104 U. S. 54.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error upon
a contract made by the defendants in error, hereafter
called Powers, with one Ferguson, and assigned to the
plaintiff in error. The contract was for the sale of some
mines known as the World's Fair Group. Powers agreed
to place a deed of the mines in escrow in the Arizona
National Bank of Tucson within ninety days, to be delivered on performance of the undertakings on the other
side. Ferguson was to begin work within ninety days and
to go on at a minimum rate until one thousand feet had
been done. All ore taken or stoped out below the main
level and all ores then on the dumps were to be milled,
concentrated or leached on the grounds, twelve dollars
per ton being allowed to Ferguson for such treatment.
On all ores, if any should be extracted, better adapted
to be shipped directly to a smelter, and upon all concentrates, a further allowance to the extent of the shipping
and smelting charges was to be made. Ferguson agreed
to ship the products 'and after the deduction of the said
shipping and smelter charges, to deposit in trust in the
Arizona National Bank, Tucson, Arizona, the net proceeds
therefrom, the same to remain in trust in said bank until
the expiration of this agreement, which shall be upon the
completion of the aforesaid one thousand feet of work, or
until such time' as Ferguson should pay Powers $450,000
and deliver to him one-quarter of. the full paid stock of a
company that Ferguson agreed to form for working the
mines, the moneys deposited in trust thereupon to be
Ferguson's. The agreement was to be void if Ferguson
did not begin and prosecute the work in the manner and
at the rate agreed upon, and in that event all permanent
improvements were to belong to Powers.
By a subsequent modification of April 15, 1904, it was
agreed that the money deposited in the Arizona National

WORLD'S FAIR MINING CO. v. POWERS.
224 U. S.

177

Opinion of the Court.

Bank should at once belong to and be at the disposal of
Powers and be credited upon the $450,000, the other party
being released from further liability upon the amounts.
On the same date deeds from Powers to Ferguson, and
from Ferguson and the London and Glasgow Development
Company, his assignee, to the World's Fair Mining Company were placed in escrow by Powers and Ferguson in
the Arizona National Bank, with instructions that upon
demand by Powers in writing the bank should appoint
a person to ascertain whether there had been a breach of
agreement* on the other side, and if he should certify
other breaches or a failure to deposit the returns from
ores, less the allowances, for more than fifteen days after
the receipt of the returns, then Powers's deed was to be
given back and the other deed destroyed. There were
also provisions that in case of performance the bank
should deliver the deeds. Before April 15 Ferguson and
his assignee had been in possession and at work. Shortly
after that date the World's Fair Mining Company went
on with the business. On June 6, 1904, it received several
thousand dollars proceeds from ores and deposited them
in the First National Bank of Nogales, to its own account.
The money not having been deposited in the Arizona
National Bank and Powers being dissatisfied with the
conduct of the plaintiff's predecessors, who also seem to
have failed to deposit as agreed, on June 11 he brought
suit and garnisheed the Nogales account. The company
kept on at work, but on July 25 Powers took forcible
possession of the mines. Subsequently this action was
brought.
At the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence the record
of the attachment suit, but the court excluded it and
directed a verdict for the defendant on the ground that
the deposit in the Arizona National Bank was a condition
concurrent with or precedent to the obligation of Powers
to go on with the contract, and that the declaration did
VoL. ccxxiv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

not disclose an excuse for the plaintiff's breach; that it
did not purport to admit a failure or to allege that such
failure was due to Powers. The Supreme Court of the
Territory took the same view and affirmed the judgment,
as the plaintiff, on its attention being called to the matter
at the trial, had not seen fit to amend.
The exclusion of the evidence and the direction to the
jury both turn on the same point and call for an analysis
of the pleadings so far as material. The declaration states
the contracts, assignments and escrow and the other facts
that we have mentioned; that Powers brought the suit
with the intent to break and abrogate the contract; that
therein he alleged a debt of the London and Glasgow
Development Company for $6617, and one of the present
plaintiff for $8000; that by his garnishment and an
injunction that he obtained for a time he sought to prevent
the plaintiff from carrying out its contract, and that
after the injunction was dissolved Powers proceeded with
the litigation, threatening to attach any other funds
brought into the Territory, and 'continued to harass,
impede and defeat the efforts of the plaintiff to carry out
the terms of its said contracts.' The plaintiff relies upon
the foregoing allegations, and especially the word 'defeat,'
as showing that Powers prevented its performance by his
Acts. But the declaration goes on that these acts made
the plaintiff fear that if it brought any more money into
the Territory that also would be attached, that they
crippled and impeded it, and that 'when plaintiff had
finally succeeded in overcoming the conditions' thus
occasioned, Powers took possession of the mine.
The declaration admits, therefore, that the acts of
Powers were not sufficient to prevent the plaintiff from
keeping its undertaking. It implies also that the plaintiff
had other. money out of the Territory, and in no way
shows that it could not have made the required deposit
in the Arizona Bank. The garnishment of the sum in the

WORLD'S FAIR MINING CO. v. POWERS.
224 U. S.

179

Opinion of the Court.

Nogales Bank did not prevent putting other money into
the Arizona Bank if the World's Fair Company did not
see fit to release the attachment-and if the deposit had
been made in time and to the right amount the source
from which it came would not have mattered.' The
deposit never was made and therefore it is unnecessary
to consider whether there had not been a breach by the
failure to deposit at once before Powers attached. The
plaintiff argues from the escrow that it had fifteen daysbut as it also contends for other purposes that the escrow
did not m6dify the contract, the argument is weakened.
But it is enough that on the record the plaintiff discloses
an unexcused breach. There is nothing in the answer to
better the case thus made. We agree with the courts
below that the depositing in the Arizona Bank was a
condition concurrent with the obligation of Powers to
allow the plaintiff to continue in possession and precedent
uo Powers's obligation to convey.
The escrow instructions treat making the deposits as a
condition to the plaintiff's rights. The plaintiff's argument that the instructions do not modify the contract is
only effective to exclude the introduction of an allowance
of fifteen days for making the deposit, as the instructions
are not needed to make the meaning of the contract clear.
For even if the express condition of avoidance for failure
to prosecute the work 'in the manner and at the rate
agreed upon,' does not certainly extend to this, it is notto be supposed that the plaintiff was to be allowed to go
on converting the proceeds of the mine into money and
at the same time appropriate the whole instead of turning
the net amount over to Powers.
Another matter might perhaps have caused a difficulty
with different pleadings. It is suggested that the previous
suit of Powers against the World's Fair Mining Company
was a suit for the proceeds of ore that should have been deposited. It might be argued that Powers had no right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Parties.

224 U. S.

that money unless the contract was to be carried through,
that he might have declined to go further and have sued
the company for the breach, Anvil Mining Co. v. Humble,
153 U. S. 540, 552, but that he could not claim part of the
purchase-price, as such, unless he was content to go on,
and thus that Powers had elected against the termination
of the contract before he attempted it. But no such
election is pleaded, and not enough appears to show that
if it had been, it could have been proved. The precise
nature of the former suit does not appear, nor whether it
had been proceeded with far enough to conclude Powers's
right of choice. Moreover if Powers terminated the contract, he would not affirm it by suing for proceeds of ore
belonging to him in that event. No error appears in the
judgment below, and it is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

SWANSON v. SEARS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 217.

Argued March 15, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

A location and discovery on land withdrawn quoad hoc from the public
domain by a valid and subsisting mining claim is absolutely void for
the purpose of founding a contradictory right; nor does it become
valid by reason of the subsequent failure of the right existing when
it was filed.
17 Idaho, 321, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of the mining
law of the United States, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. John M. Zane for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank Reeves for defendants in error.

