SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

SCHODDE, EXECUTRIX OF SCHODDE, v. TWIN
FALLS LAND AND WATER. COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 2.

Argued March 7, 8, 1911.-Decided April 1, 1912.

Under the laws of Idaho relating to appropriation of water, the extent
of beneficial use is an inherent and necessary limitation upon the
right to appropriate; and one who appropriates does not have further right to the current of the stream for the purpose of obtaining
power to distribute the water required for the beneficial use which is
the basis of his appropriation.
There is no rule of riparian rights in Idaho by which one whose land
borders on a stream' can appropriate the whole current thereof for the
purpose of making fruitful the limited appropriation of water to which
he is entitled for beneficial use.
The Federal courts below rightly followed the decisions of the state
courts of Idaho, in holding that the common law doctrine of riparian rights had been abrogated to the extent that the provisions
of the constitution and statutes of Idaho in regard to the rights of
appropriators for beneficial use are in conflict therewith.
In this case held that one who had lawfully appropriated the amount
of water from a stream in Idaho to which he was lawfully entitled
for beneficial use could not restrain those below him from raising
the river so as to interfere with the power necessary to raise the
water appropriated by him to a height necessary for distribution
over his land; neither his appropriation nor his riparian rights gave
him any control over the current of the stream.
161 Fed. Rep. 43; 88 C. C. A. 207, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the extent of the right to
appropriate water in Idaho, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph R. Webster, with whom Mr. Kirtland I.
Perky and Mr. John F. McLane were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
The decisions of both courts below ignore plaintiff's riparian rights and his common law right to a continuance

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

of the flow of the current which are not abrogated by the
doctrine of appropriation as applied in Idaho, but merely
modified or supplemented as to the mode of acquisition
and the conditions of enjoyment.
Plaintiff has complied with the requirements of the law
of appropriation and has thus fixed his riparian right to
the current, so as to vest the same in him as against subsequent appropriators.
No notice of intention to appropriate the current was
necessary; the diversion of the current within the channel,
by means of wing dams, to the plaintiff's wheels, was a
sufficient diversion, if any is required, to satisfy the law
of appropriation; and the maxim, "Aqua currit et debet
currere ut currere solebat," applies. 3 Kent's Comm. 439441, cited in United States v. Rio Grande Dam and Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 702.
The right to the use of water flows from riparian ownership of land; it belongs to the land. The water must be
permitted to run in its accustomed channel, without material alteration of the channel, or acceleration or diminution of the flow. The rights of the various riparian proprietors are equal regardless of any priority in such use;
each must be careful not to injure any other. Each may
make a reasonable use of the water as it passes, even
though there is some slight decrease in quantity, or variation in weight and velocity, of the current.
The doctrine of appropriation is claimed to have overthrown the common law doctrine in many of the western
States, Idaho among the number. It had its origin in
the customs of the California miners, and its legal justification in necessity. For the history of its origin and
development see Irwin v. Phillips, 5 California, 140;
Conger v. Weaver, 6 California, 548; Hill v. King, 8 California, 336; Bear River Co. v. New York Min. Co., 8 California, 327.
In these cases there is no denial of riparian rights if

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

any had accrued. In Crandallv. Woods, 8 California, 136,
appropriation is established as a distinct doctrine, not
based upon the common law, but derived from the customs
of miners, and until the decision in Lux v. Haggin (1886),
69 California, 225, the California court is devoted to the
development of the doctrine of appropriation.
While the doctrine of appropriation is thus established
as independent of that of riparian rights, its principles
come to be assimilated to the latter doctrine. Phcenix
Water Co. v. Fletcher, 23 California, 481; Hill v. Smith, 27
California, 476.
For cases involving conflict between appropriation and
riparian rights, see Yunker v. Nichols, 1 Colorado, 551;
Coffin v. Left Hand Ditch Co., 6 Colorado, 443; Long on
Irrigation, § 6.
The question is one of the local law, and the rule laid
down by the state courts having jurisdiction to declare
the law in the particular case should be followed. United
States v. Rio Grande &c. Co., 174 U. S.. 690; Gutierrez v.
Albuquerque Co., 188 U. S. 545; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.
361; Kansas v. Colorado,206 U. S. 46.
As to riparian rights in Idaho, see act of February 10,
1881. See Laws, 267, and compare with California Civil
Code, 1872, §§ 1410-1422. See also Rev. Stat., Idaho,
1887, §§ 3155-3167, and § 3299, Rev. Codes, 1909.
The state of the' law when Idaho was admitted to the
Union was an irrigation code taken from California, a
statute conferring the right to the use of waters in riparian
owners, and a single Supreme Court decision, adopting
in effect the California doctrine of modified riparian
rights as established in Irwin v. Phillips and Lux v. Haggin. By the constitution of 1889, while nothing is said
about riparian rights, the use of water is declared a public
use to be acquired by appropriation; it is no longer merely
private riparian property where a question of priority of
appropriation is involved. In other words, a purely ri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

parian right to the use of water may be defeated by a
subsequent, as well as by a prior, appropriation, but it
does not follow that the doctrine of riparian rights is
"abolished in toto."
For cases involving the doctrine of appropriation and
of priority between appropriators, the public character of
the use of waters, and the right of the State to regulate
the matters involved in the application of the waters of
the State to its development, during the first ten or twelve
years of statehood, see Wilterding v. Green, 4 Idaho, 773;
Geertson v. Barrack,3 Idaho, 344; Conant v. Jones, 3 Idaho,
606; Malad Valley IrrigatingCo. v. Campbell, 2 Idaho, 411;
Sandpoint Water & Light Co. v. Panhandle Development
Co., 11 Idaho, 405; Boise City Irrig. & Land Co. v. Stewart,
10 Idaho, 38. Powell v. Springston Lumber Co., 12 Idaho,
723, 1904, is the first case in Idaho which consciously
recognized a riparian right as such. But it is soon followed by others. See Johnson v. Johnson, 14 Idaho, 561;
Shephardv. Ccur d'Alene Lumber Co., 101 Pac. Rep. 591.
A riparian owner in Idaho still retains such right to
have the waters flow in the natural stream through or by
his premises as he may protect in the courts as against
persons interfering with the natural flow, or who attempt
to divert or cut off the same wrongfully and arbitrarily,
and without doing so under any right of location, appropriation, diversion or use' and who do not rest their right
to do so upon any right of use or appropriation. Hutchinson v. Watson Slough Co., 101 Pac. Rep. 1059.
A riparian owner may claim or."fix" his right in such
a way as to prevent its subsequent appropriation. This
is accomplished by "appropriating" that right in the
manner prescribed by the statute.
The foregoing rules apply to this case. Up to the time
that the defendant began the construction of its works
the plaintiff had the rights of a riparian proprietor, good
as against everybody but an appropriator.

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The riparian right upon which the plaintiff insists is to
the current flow of the stream. That is established. Tyler
v. Wilkinson, 4 Mason, 397; Weiss v. Iron Co., 11 Pac.
Rep. (Ore.) 255; Gould v. Boston Dock Co., 13 Gray, 442;
Head v. Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 19; Shamleffer v.
Peerless Mill Co., 18 Kansas, 33; Lux v. Haggin, 69 California, 255; McCalmont v. Whitaker, 3 Rawle, 84; 23 Am.
Dec. 102.
This riparian right to the flow is a valuable -property
right, of which the riparian owner cannot be deprived
without hi consent, or compensation being paid therefor,
when it is desired to devote the right to a public use.
Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; Pine v. York, 103 Fed.
Rep. 337; Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay Co.,
142 U. S. 276; Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541.
Even assuming that defendant is an appropriator, the
plaintiff must still prevail as a riparian owner. As a
riparian owner, he had title to the current good as against
all but an appropriator. He had the right to "fix" such
right so as to prevent its subsequent appropriation, or
its defeat by such an appropriation.
What was so clearly a riparian right at common law may
be appropriated by a riparian proprietor under the Idaho
law. The difference between the Idaho law and the common law of riparian rights rests principally in the mode of
acquisition of those rights. Under the common law the
right attaches to riparian proprietorship, and continues as
incident thereto whether it is ever used or not. Under the
Idaho law the right exists, but to be secure against the
higher law of appropriation, it must be appropriated, that
is, beneficially used; the riparian owner cannot sit back and
retard the development of the country by claiming a dormant right. If.he wants the right he must use it, and give
notice to the world that he is using it, before some one else
spends time and money in acquiring a similar right.
Plaintiff had a riparian owner's right to the current;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

224 U. S.

he could fix that right by an appropriation to a beneficial
use so as to make it available as against a subsequent
appropriator; he did fix the right by such an appropriation.
Mr. Edward B. Critchlow, with whom Mr. William J.
Barrette was on the brief, for defendant in error:
Each State may determine for itself whether the common law rule in respect to riparian rights or the rule of
appropriation shall be enforced as to waters within its
boundaries. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 94.
Generally, the arid States and Territories, Idaho included, have adopted the rule that water may be appropriated for beneficial uses. Colorado-Hammondv. Rose,
7 Am. St. Rep. 258; Arizona-Austin v. Chandler, 42 Pac.
Rep. 483; Idaho-Drakev. Earhart,2 Idaho, 716; Hutchinson v. Watson Slough Co., 101 Pac. Rep. 1059; New Mexico
-Trambley v. Luterman, 27 Pac. Rep. 312; Albuquerque
&c. Co. v. Gutierrez, 61 Pac. Rep. 357; Nevada-Reno &c.,
Co. v. Stevenson, 19 Am. St. Rep. 364; Walsh v. Wallace,
26 Nevada, 299; Utah-Cole v. Richards Irrig. Co., 27
Utah, 205; 101 Am. St. Rep. 962; Morrisv. Bean, 146 Fed.
Rep. 431; Wyoming-Willey v. Decker, 100 Am. St. Rep.
939.
The common-law rights of riparian owners and the
rights acquired under the doctrine of appropriation are
distinct and antagonistic and cannot both, be recognized
or enforced. Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Boquillas
Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S. 339; United States v. Rio
Grande Dam & Irrig. Co., 174 U. S. 690; Iutchinson v.
Watson Slough Co. (Idaho), 101 Pac. Rep. 1059; Stowell
v. Johnson, 7 Utah, 225.
Appropriation involves these- several elements: An
intent to apply to some beneficial use; an actual diversion
such as gives physical control of the stream or such part
as is appropriated; an application within a reasonable
time to some useful industry. Low v. Rizor, 25 Oregon,

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

551; 37 Pac. Rep. 84; Black's Pomeroy's Water Rights,
48-51.
The manner of use so far as it affects the quantity of
water sought to be appropriated must be reasonable and
with due regard to the rights of others. An unreasonable
claim of appropriation'is a void claim. Basy v. Gallagher,
20 Wall. 670; Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507; Rio
Grande West. Ry. Co. v. Telluride Co., 16 Utah, 137;
Roeder v. Stein, 23 Nevada, 92; 42 Pac. Rep. 867; Barnes
v. Sabron, 10 Nevada, 243; Nevada Ditch Co. v. Bennett,
30 Oregon,'59; Van Camp v. Emery, 13 Idaho, 202; Hough
v. Porter, 51 Oregon, 318; S. C., 98 Pac. Rep. 1083; Farmers' Co-op. Ditch Co. v. Riverside Irrig. Dist., 16 Idaho,
525; S. C., 102 Pac. Rep. 481; Fitzpatrick v. Montgomery,
20 Montana, 181, 187.
Plaintiff's claim is that the entire Snake River shall be
allowed to flow as in a state of nature, with volume and
current undiminished. This is tantamount to a claim
either that the entire river has been appropriated by the
plaintiff for the irrigation of about 420 acres of land, or
that independently of any use or appropriation the right
so to control the river vests through riparian ownership.
This claim which is the basis of plaintiff's asserted cause
of action cannot be sustained.
Because the appropriation was for irrigation only and
the limit of such appropriation was the amount necessary
to irrigate about 430 acres; because the current or velocity,
being a mere incident or function of the water, cannot be
appropriated; because except as to the water actually
placed upon the lands there was no such diversion as is
necessary; because an appropriation of the entire stream,
if plaintiff's use for the operation of water wheels was
to be considered such, would be unreasonable and therefore void. In a legal sense it would not be beneficial; and
because such an appropriation would be void for uncertainty.

voL. ccxxiv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

224 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Since the writ of certiorari in this case was granted
the petitioner died, and his executrix was substituted.
The writ was allowed to enable us to review the action
of the court below in affirming a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Idaho.
The judgment of the Circuit Court sustained a demurrer
to the complaint of the petitioner, who was plaintiff,
on the ground that it stated no cause of action. An absolute judgment of dismissal was entered consequent
on the election by the plaintiff to stand on the complaint
as filed. The court below summarized the averments of
the three counts of the complaint, and as that summary
accurately and sufficiently states the case, we adopt and
reproduce it, as follows (161 Fed. Rep. 43):
"Plaintiff's complaint contains three counts. Briefly
stated, the cause of action as set out in the three counts
of the complaint is as follows: Plaintiff is the owner of
three tracts of land -on the banks of Snake river, containing in the aggregate 429.96 acres. Two of these tracts,
containing 263.96 acres, are on the south bank, and one
tract of 160 acres is on the north bank. One of the tracts
on the south bank is agricultural land, and the other is
partly agricultural land and partly mining ground. The
tract of land on the north bank is agricultural. In the
year 1889 plaintiff's predecessors in interest, and in 1895
the plaintiff himself, appropriated certain quantities of
water of the flow of Snake river for use on said lands.
In the first count the quantity is stated in cubic feet per
second; in the second and third counts the quantities
are stated in miner's inches. The aggregate of water
appropriated as alleged in the three counts is referred
to in the briefs as 1,250 miner's inches. Soon after this
water was appropriated the parties in interest erected

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

water wheels in the river to lift the water to a sufficient
height for distribution over the land. Nine of these
wheels were erected opposite or near the tracts on the
south side of the river, and two near the tract on the
north side of the river. These wheels vary in height from
24 to 34 feet. The parties also constructed wing dams
in the river adjoining or in front of the lands owned by
them, for the purpose of confining the flow of the water
of the river and raising it at such points above the natural flow of the river, so that the current would drive the
water wheels and cause them to revolve and carry the
water in buckets attached to the wheels to a height where
it would be emptied into flumes and distributed over the
lands by ditches and used thereon to irrigate and cultivate the agricultural land and work the mining ground.
It is not alleged in the complaint, but it is assumed that
the river at this point runs between high banks and that
the water is lifted by the wheels at least 20 feet before it
is emptied into the flumes for distribution over plaintiff's
lands. In the year 1903, while plaintiff was using the
appropriated water of the river upon the described premises, the defendant commenced the construction of a
dam across Snake river at a point about nine miles westerly from and below the lands of the plaintiff. The work
was prosecuted on said dam until its completion in March,
1905. This dam is so constructed as to impound all the
water of Snake river flowing at said point, and to raise
the water about forty feet in height. It is alleged that
when defendant's dam was filled with water the water
was turned into a canal known as the Twin Falls canal,
owned by the defendant, and located on the north side
of the river; that this canal was constructed at a cost,
as plaintiff is informed and believes, of $1,500,000, for
the purpose of supplying water for irrigation and domestic purposes to the settlers on about 300,000 acres of
arable and arid lands situated below the dam; that for

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

said lands and for a great number of people, being, as
plaintiff is informed and believes, 5,000 in number, there is
no other supply available for irrigation, stock, domestic,
or manufacturing purposes except the water from said
canal. It is alleged that by reason of this dam the waters
of Snake river have been backed up from said dam and
to and beyond plaintiff's premises and have destroyed
the current in the river by means of which plaintiff's
water wheels were driven and made to revolve and raise
the water to the elevation required for distribution over
plaintiff's lands. It is alleged that it is now impossible
for plaintiff to so arrange or change his said dams or
water wheels or flumes, or to build or construct other
dams or water wheels or flumes that will raise any water
whatever from said stream that can be used upon the
plaintiff's lands, and by reason thereof plaintiff has not
been able to irrigate said lands or. any part thereof or
to raise profitable crops thereon or to use the same as
pasture lands, and will not in the future be able to irri-,
gate said lands or to raise profitable crops or any crops
thereon, as long as defendant's dam is maintained; that
there is no other supply of water available for use upon
said lands except the waters of Snake river; that by reason of the backing up of said water and stopping the plaintiff from using said water wheels to raise the waters of
Snake river to and upon said lands and cutting off the
water supply from plaintiff's lands he has been damaged
in the aggregate sum of $56,650.
"In the first count of the complaint a separate and
distinct cause of action is alleged in an averment that
about twelve acres of plaintiff's land has been covered
by the waters of Snake river backed up by defendant's
dam, but the land is not described or its boundaries given,
or any particulars stated so that the land can be identified or ascertained. To this cause of action. defendant
interposed a special demurrer on the ground of uncer-

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tainty and the improper joinder of two separate causes of
action. This special demurrer appears to be admitted.
"'The defendant also interposed a general demurrer
on the ground that the facts stated in the complaint do
not constitute a cause of action against the defendant
as to either or any of said counts. The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court, and the plaintiff has brought
the cause to this court upon a writ of error."
The trial court recognized fully the right of the plaintiff to the volume of water actually appropriated for a
beneficial purpose. It nevertheless dismissed the complaint on the ground that there was no right under the
constitution and laws of the State of Idaho .to appropriate the current of the river so as to render it impossible
for others to apply the otherwise unappropriated waters
of the river to beneficial uses. The court did not find it
necessary to deny that power might be one of the beneficial purposes for which appropriations of water might
be made, but in substance held that to uphold as an appropriation the use of the current of the river to the extent
required to work the defendant's wheels would amount
to saying that a limited taking of water from the river
by appropriation for a limited beneficial use, justified
the appropriation of all the water in the river as incident
to the limited benefit resulting from the use of the water
actually appropriated. The court said:
"It is conceded and is beyond question, that the statute
law as well as judicial authority directly protects plaintiff in all water he has actually appropriated, diverted
and used, but there is no statute, nor so far as known,
any judicial rulings, protecting him in the establishment
*and in the use of his water wheels, as he claims to, and
must, use them for the diversion of water to his land."
Again:
"As by Art. 15, Sec. 3, Constitution of Idaho, all unappropriated waters are subject to appropriation, it fol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

lows that all water that plaintiff has legally appropriated
belongs to him, but all other is subject to appropriation.
It is unquestioned that what he has actually diverted
and used upon his land, he has appropriated, but can
it be said that all the water he uses or needs to operate
his wheels is an appropriation? As before suggested, there
is neither statutory nor judicial authority that such a
use is an appropriation. Such use also lacks one of the
essential attributes of an appropriation; it is not reasonable."
After pointing out the limited right of appropriation
for beneficial use which had been exercised considering
the quantity of water actually appropriated and the use
to which that water was put, the court came to state the
vast extent of the incidental appropriation, having no
proper relation to beneficial use, which would result
from admitting the theory that the plaintiff, because
of his limited appropriation for a named beneficial use,
had the power to appropriate the entire current of the
river for the purpose of making his actual and limited
appropriation and meager beneficial enjoyment fruitful.
The court said:
"The only way in which his wheels can be used for
the purpose he intended them, is to preserve the river
in the condition it was when he erected them. And with
what result, it may be asked. It may be stated as a fact
that the banks of the river and the adjacent country
sustain such relations to each other, that the latter cannot be irrigated by ditches cut from the river in its natural state and the erection of dams becomes a necessity,
which of course changing the surface elevation of the
water affects the plaintiff's premises and all others similarly situated. Then without the dam the Twin Falls
scheme with all its present great promise fails. Not
only this, but- the Government is now constructing a
dam across the river some distance above plaintiff for

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

another extensive irrigating scheme, known as Minidoka
Project, which will take a large amount of the water and
so much that probably there will not be enough left, especially at low stages of the river, for the full operation
of the plaintiff's wheels. . .
Illustrating the subject, the court said:
"Suppose from a stream of 1000 inches a party diverts
and uses 100, and in some way uses the other 900 to divert his 100, could it be said that he had made such a
reasonable use of the 900 as to constitute an appropriation of it? Or, suppose that when the entire 1000 inches
are running, they so fill the channel that by a ditch he
can draw off to his land-his 100 inches, can he then object
to those above him appropriating and using the other
900 inches, because it will so lower the stream that his
ditch becomes useless? This would be such an unreasonable use of the 900 inches as will not be tolerated
under the law of appropriation. In effect this is substantially the principle that plaintiff is asking to have
established."
The Court of Appeals, in affirming the decree of dismissal, did so for substantially the reasons which controlled the trial court. The Court of Appeals said (p. 44):
"The assignments of error present the single question
whether the facts stated in the complaint constitute a
cause of action against the defendant. It is not denied
that the plaintiff has the right by appropriation to divert
1,250 miner's inches of waters of the Snake river, mainly
for irrigation purposes, and it is 'not charged by plaintiff that this amount of water is not still in the river subject to his right of appropriation and diversion. His claim
is that he cannot divert it by the means he first adopted
for taking the waters from the river, and that the defendant by placing a dam across the river has deprived
him of the right to the current of the river which prior
to the erection of the dam rendered his means of diver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

sion available. Is this current and the means adopted
for the diversion of the appropriated water part of or
attached to plaintiff's right of appropriation? It is contended on the part of the plaintiff that the current of
the river is necessarily appurtenant to the water location
and that the means of utilizing that current is attached
as an appurtenance to the appropriation. We have not
been referred to any case-and we know of none-where
either of these propositions has been upheld."
After elaborately reviewing the general principles
upon which the law of appropriation rested, and referring
to provisions of the constitution and statute law of Idaho
and the decisions interpreting and enforcing the same,
it was held that the extent of beneficial use was an inherent and necessary limitation upon the right to appropriate. Pointing out the disastrous results which
would follow from any other view, the court said (p. 45):
"If the plaintiff were permitted to own the current of
the stream as appurtenant to his right of appropriation
and diversion, he would be able to add indefinitely to the
water right he would control and own. There might be
a great surplus of water in the stream at and above plaintiff's premises and an urgent demand for a portion of this
surplus for beneficial uses, but if an appropriator above
should divert a sufficient quantity to lower the current
under plaintiff's water wheels so that they would not revolve, the plaintiff Would have a cause of action to prevent
such an appropriation. It is clear that in such a case
the policy of the state to reserve the waters of the flowing streams for the benefit of the public would be defeated."
And in this connection, in conclusion, it was observed
(p. 47):
"There is, furthermore, the general principle that the
right of appropriation must be exercised with some regard
to the.xights of the public. It is not an unrestricted right.

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Basey v. Gallagher, 20 Wall. 670, 683, the Supreme
Court of the United States said: 'Water is diverted to
propel machinery in flour-mills and saw-mills, and to
irrigate land for cultivation, as well as to enable miners to
work their mining claims; and in all such cases the right
of the first appropriator, exercised within reasonable
limits, is respected and enforced. We say within reasonable limits, for this right to water, like the right by prior
occupancy to mining ground or agricultural land, is not
unrestricted. It must be exercised with reference to the
general condition of the country and the necessities of the
people, and not so as to deprive a whole neighborhood or
community of its use and vest an absolute monopoly in a
single individual.'
"In Fitzpatrick v. Montgomery, 20 Montana, 181, 187,
the Supreme Court of the State of Montana, after referring to what has been just quoted from Basey v. Gallagher,
said: 'While any person is permitted to appropriate water
for a useful purpose, it must be used with some regard for
the rights of the public. The use of water in this state is
declared by the constitution to be a public use. Constitution, Art. 3, § 15. It is easy to see that, if persons by
appropriating the waters of the streams of the state became the absolute owners of the waters without restriction
in the use and disposition thereof, such appropriation and
unconditional ownership would result in such a monopoly
as to work disastrous consequences to the people of the
state. The tendency and spirit of legislation and adjudication of the northwestern States and Territories have
been to prevent such a monopoly of the waters of this
large section of the country, dependent so largely for
prosperity upon an equitable, and, as far as practical, free,
use of water by appropriation.' "
We have freely excerpted from the opinions of the
courts below because, in our judgment, they so clearly
portray the situation and correctly apply the law to that

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

situation as resulting from the constitution and statutes
of Idaho and the reiterated decisions of the court of last
resort of that State, which axe referred to in the margin,'
that we might place our decree. of affirmance upon the
reasons which controlled the courts below. We, however,
refer to a contention urged by the petitioner as to the
existence of riparian rights in Idaho and the sanction
which those rights as there recognized are deemed to give
to the asserted power to appropriate the whole current of
the river for the purpose of making fruitful the limited
appropriation of water which was made. It is not urged
that the law of appropriation does not prevail in Idaho,
but it is supposed that a system of riparian rights goes
hand in hand with the doctrine of appropriation and that
the two co-exist and may harmoniously cooperate. But
the best demonstration of the error which the proposition
involves results from a consideration of the effort made to
apply it in this case and the reasons advanced to sustain
it. We say this because it may not be doubted that the
application' here sought to be made of the doctrine of
riparian rights would be absolutely destructive of the
fundamental conceptions upon which the theory of appropriation for beneficial use proceeds, since it would
allow the owner of a riparian right to appropriate the
entire volume of the water of the river without regard to
the extent of his beneficial use. And the incongruity of
the proposition is aptly illustrated by the arguments
I Constitution of Idaho, art. 14, § 3; Rev. Stat. of Idaho, §§ 3155
et seq.; Laws of Idaho 1903, p. 223.
Malad Valley Irrigating Co. v. Campbell, 2 Idaho, 411; Geertson v.
Barrack, 3 Idaho, 344; Conant v. Jones, 3 Idaho, 606; Wilterding v.
Green, 4 Idaho, 773; Boise City Irrigation & Land Co. v. Stewart, 10
Idaho, 38; Sand Point Water & Light Co. v. Panhandle Development
Co., 11 Idaho, 405; Van Camp v. Emery, 13 Idaho, 202; Hutchinson v.
Watson Slough Diteh Co., Limited, 16 Idaho, 484; Farmers' Coiperative
Ditch Co. v. Riverside Irr. Dist., 16 Idaho, 525; Speer v. Stephenson, 16
Idaho, 707.

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

advanced to sustain it, since those arguments recur to
and rest upon the common-law doctrine of riparian rights,
of the duty to allow a stream to flow as it was wont and
of the relative rights of all persons bordering upon the
stream arising from their riparian ownership. The misapprehension upon which the contention rests is the assumption that because a certain character of riparian
rights may exist in Idaho therefore such rights as are
absolutely incompatible with the rule of prior appropriation for beneficial use may co-exist with that system.
For instance, the case of Shephard v. Cmur d'Alene Lumber
Company, 16 Idaho, 293, which upheld the right of a
riparian proprietor to prevent another from wrongfully
virtually taking his water front and cutting him off from
ingress to and egress from such water front affords no
ground for holding that such riparian rights exist as are
wholly incompatible with and indeed destructive of the
system of appropriation for beneficial use. So, again, the
license given by the terms of § 3184 of the Revised Statutes
of Idaho, excerpted in the margin I as pointed out by the
court below does not confer upon such riparian owner the
power to appropriate without reference to beneficial use
the entire volume of a river or its current to the destruction of rights of others to make appropriations of the unused water. But the precise question we are considering
has been so completely foreclosed by a ruling of the Supreme Court of the State of Idaho as to leave no room for
discussion. Thus, in Van Camp v. Emery, 13 Idaho, 202,
1All persons, companies and corporations, owning or having the
passory [8ic] title or right to lands adjacent to any stream, have the

right to place in the channel of, or upon the banks or margin of the same,
rams or other machines for the purpose of raising the waters thereof to
a level above the banks, requisite for the flow thereof to and upon such
adjacent lands; and the right of way over and across the lands of others,
for conducting said waters, may be acquired in the manner prescribed

in the last two sections. (§ 3184, Rev. Stat. Idaho.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

the facts were these: The defendant lived above the plaintiff on a stream and was assumed as a prior appropriator
to be entitled to forty-five inches of the water of the,
stream. The plaintiff who also was an appropriator, but
subordinate to the rights of the defendant complained
that the latter had not only diverted his forty-five inches,
but had erected a dam in the stream so as to impede the
flow to his (plaintiff's) intake and deprive him of his right
of appropriation, the dam being put in place by the defendant for the purpose of holding the water so as to give
him the benefit of subirrigation of certain meadow lands
which he owned. It was held that the defendant, while
he had a full right to draw off the forty-five inches to
which he was entitled as an appropriator for beneficial
use, could not by damming the stream get more than his
beneficial appropriation entitled him to so as to injure the
right of others to appropriate from the stream. In the
course of the opinion, the court said (p. 208):
"If the defendant who lives above plaintiff is entitled
to a priority for forty-five inches of water, he may unquestionably divert that quantity, but when he has once done
so, he may not dam the stream below or hinder or impede
the flow of the remaining stream to the plaintiff's headgate. The fact that such dams and impediments hold the
water and cause a subirrigation of the adjacent meadows
cannot of itself justify the maintenance of such obstructions. Whatever amount of water defendant shows himself 'entitled to for the irrigation of his meadows or other
lands as a prior right over the plaintiff, the judgment
should so decree, but beyond that he cannot go under
any other pretext or claims for the natural condition of
the stream. In this arid country where the largest duty
and the greatest use must be had from every inch of
water in the interest of agriculture and home-building, it
will not do to say that a stream must be dammed so as
to cause subirrigation of a few acres at a loss of enough

SCHODDE v. TWIN FALLS WATER CO.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

water to surface irrigate ten times as much by proper
application.
"
And the absolute untenability of the contention here
made as to riparian rights was again foreclosed by the
Supreme Court of Idaho in Hutchinson v. Watson Slough
Ditch Co., Limited, 16 Idaho, 484. Indeed, in that case
the court referred to and adversely disposed of the view
taken of the authorities here relied on as sustaining the
co-existence of the asserted riparian rights and the doctrine
of appropriation. After making a full reference to authorities, in the course of its opinion the court said (p. 491):
"A riparian proprietor in the state of Idaho has no
right in or claim to the waters of a stream flowing by or
through his lands that he can successfully assert as being
prior or superior to the rights and claims of one who has
appropriated or diverted the water of the stream and is
applying it to a beneficial use. To this extent, therefore,
the common-law doctrine of riparian rights is in conflict
with the constitution and statutes of this state and has
been abrogated thereby.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Sight should not be lost of the correct principle involved in such cases, namely, that a riparian owner, as
such, acquires no right to the waters flowing by or through
his lands that is prior or superior to that of a locator, appropriator and user of such waters. In other words, there
is no such thing in this state as a riparian right to the use
of waters as against an appropriator and user of such
waters who has pursued the constitutional and statutory
method in acquiring his water right. In order to acquire
a prior or superior right to the use of such water, it is as
essential that a riparian owner locate or appropriate the
waters and divert the same as it is for any other user of
water to do so."
As we have pointed out the court below did not question the right of the plaintiff to take by proper means

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

from the river the quantity of water actually appropriated
by him for beneficial use and our decree of affirmance will
therefore not in any way. affect such rights.

Affirmed.

GONZALES v. BUIST.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 181. Submitted March 4, 1912.-Decided April 1, 1912.

Appellant's contention that he was not accorded a proper hearing in
the court below cannot be availed of here if the record does not show
that he formally excepted or objected to the rulings. Apache County
v. Barth, 177 U. S. 538.
Under § 35 of the Porto Rican act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 85, c. 191,
writs of error to and appeals from final decisions of the SupremeCourt for the District of Porto Rico are governed by the rules that
govern writs of error to and appeals from Supreme Courts of the
Territories, which confine this court to determining whether the
court below erred in deducing its conclusions of law from the facts
as found, and to reviewing errors committed as to admission or rejection of testimony upon proper exceptions preserved. Young v.
Amy, 171 U. S. 179.
On appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory the agreed statement
or findings must be of the ultimate facts; for if they are merely, as
in this case, a recital of testimony or evidentiary facts, there is
nothing brought to this court for consideration, and the judgment
must be affirmed. Glenn v. Fant, 134 U. S. 398.
4 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 243, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the rules governing appeals
from the Supreme Court of Porto Rico and the District
Court of the United States for the District of Porto Rico,
are stated in the opinion.

