OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

NIELSEN, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. STEINFELD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 218.

Argued April 17, 18, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

There are exceptions to the general rule that'a judgment on appeal from
a territorial court should be affirmed where the record contains no
exceptions or the statement of facts required by the statutes to enable
the reviewing power to be exerted; and so held, in this case, that it is'
reversible error where the Supreme Court of a Territory refuses to
perform its legally imposed duty of making its own statement of
facts or adopting that of the trial court.
Where the judgment of a Supreme Court of a Territory is reversed for
refusal to perform the statutory duty of' making a statement, the
case stands as though the appeal from the trial court were still pending; and if the Territory has been admitted as a State since the record
came to this court, and the case is one within the jurisdiction of the
state courts, it will be remanded to the Supreme Court of such
State.
12 Arizona, 381, reversed.

THE facts, which involve practice regulating appeals
from Supreme Courts of the Territories, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Edwin F. Jones, with whom Mr. William Herring
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellees.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Mary Nielsen, individually and as administratrix of
the estate of her deceased husband, Carl S. Nielsen,
commenced this action in 1905 in the District Court of

NIELSEN v. STEINFELD.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pima County, in the then Territory of Arizona. Albert
Steinfeld and the Nielsen Mining & Smelting Co., now the
Silver Bell Copper Company, were named as defendants.
The relief sought was the setting aside of a transfer made
by Nielsen to Steinfeld of three hundred shares of stock
in the Nielsen Company and for a decree adjudging Mary
Nielsen (who is the. appellant), as administratrix of her
husband's estate, to be the legal owner of the stock. An
accounting from Steinfeld of moneys received by him as
dividends on the stock was also prayed.
The cause was tried by the court, without a jury, and
evidence both oral and documentary was introduced on
behalf of the plaintiff and defendants. The trial court
made elaborate findings of fact upon which it entered
judgment against Steinfeld for $23,300.00 with, interest,
and the 'shares of stock in controversy were decreed to
be the property of the administratrix. The defendants
appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory. With
the judgment roll there was filed in the office of the clerk
of that court various exhibits of both plaintiff and defendants and the reporter's transcript of evidence, copies
of which papers so filed, it was recited, were omitted from
the transcript by direction of the attorneys for appellants.
(Steinfeld et al.)
What errors were assigned on the appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory do not appear in the transcript of
record. It was conceded, however, in the argument at
bar by the counsel of both parties that in the Supreme
Court of the Territory it was insisted, on behalf of the
appellants (Steinfeld et al.), that the decree of the trial
court should be reversed, not only because there was no
evidence sustaining various findings of the trial court
which were material to its decree, but also because, taking
the findings to be -sufficiently supported by proof, they
were nevertheless inadequate to sustain the decree which
had been based on them. It therefore may be assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of 'the Court.

224 U. S.

that the errors thus admitted to have been assigned in
the Supreme Court are those referred to in the minute
entry contained in the record, stating that a "motion and
objection of the appellee to the consideration of assignments of error set forth and specified in appellants' brief"
were denied by the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the trial
court and remanded the cause with directions to enter
judgment for the defendants. (12 Arizona, 381.) The
opinion is preceded by what is denominated in the body
of the opinion a statement of the facts. The statement
begins with a brief recital of the nature of the controversy,
the entry of judgment in the trial court and the taking
of the appeal; and after the declaration that "the court
(trial court) found the facts as follows," there appears
a literal copy of the findings made by the trial court.
In the opinion which next follows it is first declared that
it was "contended by the appellants that the facts found
do not constitute legal fraud, and that therefore the court
erred in not so finding, and in rendering judgment for
the plaintiff and against the defendants, based thereon."
A summary is then made of what were styled "the facts
upon which the court predicated fraud in the purchase of
the shares of stock of Nielsen," followed by the statement
that "unless these facts constituted legal fraud, the
judgment of the trial court cannot be sustained." The
court then considers whether the facts so found amounted
to legal fraud, and concludes its consideration of the
subject by saying (p. 405): "In our judgment the findings
do not support the legal conclusion made by the trial
court that such fraud was perpetrated by Steinfeld in
the purchase of the stock as to warrant the rescission of
the contraot, and the recovery of the stock and of the
dividends which have been received by Steinfeld thereon."
* It is then stated that "for this reason the judgment of
the trial court must be reversed, and the case remanded,

NIELSEN v. STEINFELD.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with directions to the trial court to enter judgment for
the defendant." The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of the Territory dissented in the following words:
"I dissent from the conclusion and the result reached
by my associates in the foregoing opinion. I think the
judgment of the trial court was correct."
A motion for a. rehearing was denied on May 1, 1909,
and on the same day the appeal now under consideration
was allowed by the Chief Justice of the court.
On June 10, 1909, there was filed nunc pro tunc as of
May 1, 1909, what was styled in the Journal entry "a
certain Statement of Facts," in which, under the title of
the cause, it was recited as follows:
"I, Edward Kent, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Arizona, do hereby certify that the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona, having adjudged that the facts as found by the District Court in
this cause did not sustain the conclusions of law or the
judgment of the District Court, did, without passing in
this court upon the corrections (correctness?) of the facts
as found by the District Court, remand this cause to the
District Court with directions to that court to enter j udgmet absolute for the defendants.
"And on behalf of the said Supreme Court of the
Territory of Arizona, I do hereby certify to the Supreme
Court of the United States upon the appeal herein, that
the following were the facts as found by the District Court
upon which the said judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Arizona was based."
This certificate was followed by a reproduction of the
findings made by the trial court and the certificate concluded with the date of May 1, 1909, and the signature
of the Chief Justice.
On June 12, 1909, a bond on appeal was duly filed.
Five months afterwards, viz., on November 12, 1909, the
following order was entered in the court below:

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

"At this day, it is ordered by the Court that all former
Statements of Facts filed in this cause in this court, be, and
the same are hereby, withdrawn, and a Certificate of the
Chief Justice in regard to Statement of facts, filed."
The certificate referred to appears in the transcript
of record following a recital of the entry of an order enlarging the time for preparing and filing such transcript.
Omitting the title of the cause, date, and signature of
the Chief Justice, the certificate reads as follows:
"I, Edward Kent, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Arizona, do hereby certify that the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona, having adjudged that the facts as found by the District Court in
this cause did not sustain the conclusions of law or the
judgment of the District Court, did, without passing in
this Court upon the correctness of the facts as found
by the District Court, remand this cause to the District
Court with directions to that Court to enter judgment
absolute for the defendants, and therefore do not certify
to the United States Supreme Court any statement of
facts in the nature of a special verdict."
In the argument at bar it is urged on behalf of appellant
-citing Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610, and Bierce v.
Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340,-that as the Supreme Court
of the Territory reversed the judgment of the trial court
"for the reason that the facts as found are not sufficient
to support the judgment," the court below must be held
to have adopted as its own the findings of the trial court,
and therefore there is an adequate statement of the facts
in the nature of a special verdict as required by the act of
Congress of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, c. 80. The appellees,
on the other hand, relying upon the last certificate made
by the Chief Justice on behalf of the court, direct attention
to the fact that the court did not either adopt the findings
of the trial court or make express findings of its own,
since it simply accepted, the findings made by the trial

NIELSEN v. STEINFELD.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court for a limited purpose, that is with the object of
determining whether the findings, if hypothetically taken
for true, were adequate to sustain the judgment which the
trial court had based on them. It is not, however, suggested that this state of the record precludes a determination of whether the court below erred in deciding that
upon the assumption of the correctness of the findings
of the trial court they were inadequate to sustain its
decree, but it is urged that under the circumstances, if it
be deemed that the court below erred it would be a gross
injustice to reverse, with directions to affirm the judgment of the trial court, because thereby the appellants
in the court below, the. appellees here, would be denied
a hearing on the contention urged in the court below that
there was no evidence sustaining some of the essential
findings of the trial court.
As it is obvious from the final action of the court below
as manifested by the last certificate of the Chief Justice
that the premise upon which the suggestions last referred
to rest is well 'founded, it is clear that the court below
made no statement of facts complying with its statutory
duty. It is equally clear under the circumstances stated
that although the appellees apparently do not expressly
assert the inadequacy of the purported statement of facts
to sustain our jurisdiction to review, in effect their contention is equivalent to that proposition. This is true
because the result of the proposition insisted upon is to
contend that the statement of facts which the court below
accepted for a particular purpose is.sufficient to enable a
review of its action if the conclusion be that the court
below did not err, but is not sufficient to justify correction
of its action if it be found that error was committed.
The evident duty imposed upon the court below by
the statute, as long since established .and repeatedly
pointed out, was to make a statement of the facts in the
nature of a special verdict either by adopting as correct

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S;

the findings of fact made by the trial court or by making
its own express findings, a duty which was plainly disregarded by merely hypothetically assuming the findings
of the trial court to be correct, and basing upon such
mere hypothesis a judgment of reversal with a direction
to enter a final decree against the complainant.
The general rule is to affirm a judgment on an appeal
from a territorial court where the record contains no
exceptions to rulings upon the admissionf or rejection
of evidence and where there is an absence of the statement of facts required by the statute to enable the reviewing power to be exerted, and when there is no showing
that the appellant has used due diligence to exact a compliance with the statute so as to enable an appeal to be
prosecuted. Gonzales v. Buist, 224 U. S. 126. We are of
opinion, however, that the facts of this case cause it to
be an exception to this general rule. First, because the
action of the court below was plainly the result not of a
mere omission to perform its duty to make a statement
of facts, but arose from a misconception as to the nature
and extent of its powers in discharging that statutory
duty, a misconception not arising from any action of the
party appellant here and which in itself therefore intrinsically we think constitutea reversible error. Second,
because the initial action by which th error was committed was ambiguously manifested and may have misled
the unsuccessful party. Third, because the final order
which made it indubitably clear that the court intended to
make no findings of fact and deemed that consistently
with the right to review its action which was vested in
this court it had the power to decide the case upon a mere
hypothesis as to the correctness of the findirtgs of the trial
court was entered months after the appeal now before
us had been entered.
Considering' the whole situation, we think we must
treat the case upon the theory that the court below corn-

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. CASTLE.
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

mitted reversible error in refusing to perform the duty
imposed upon it by law, and the reversal of its decree
because of such error will liave the legal effect of causing
the case to be as though it were yet pending undetermined
on the appeal from the trial court. As since the filing
of the record here the Territory of Arizona has been admitted as a State, and the case before us is of a character
which, by the terms of the enabling act (36 Stat. 557,

ch. 310, ยง 33, p. 577), should be remanded to the Supreme
Court of the State, our duty therefore is to reverse the
decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona
and to remand the case to the Supreme Court of the State

of Arizona for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

THE MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
v. CASTLE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURIT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 344.

Submitted April 22, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

This court has repeatedly held that a State may impose upon a railway
company liability to an employ6 engaged in train service for an injury
inflicted through the negligence of another employ6 in the same

service.
A State also has power to modify or abolish the common-law rule of
coutributory negligence, and provide by statute that damages to an
employ6 of a railroad company shall only be diminished by reason
of his contributory negligence in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to him.
Prior to the enactment by Congress of the Employers' Liability Act,
the States were not debarred from legislating for the protection of
railway employ~s engaged in interstate commerce.

