OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

224 U. S.

v.
COMMERCE
COMMISSION
INTERSTATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA EX REL.
HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 859.

Argued April 16, 1912.-Decided April 29, 1912.

Alaska is a Territory of the United States within the meaning of § 1
of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended June 29, 1906, 34
Stat. 584, c. 3591.
An organized Territory of the United States does not necessarily mean
one having a local legislature as distinguished from one having a
less autonomous form of government, such as that of Alaska.
Even if "Territory of the United States" as used in § 1 of the InterState Commerce Act as amended includes only organized Territories, Alaska falls within its meaning. The Steamer Coquitlam, 163
U. S. 346; Binns v. United States, 194 U. S.486; Rassmussen v.
United States, 197 U. S.516.
The Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, extended the
provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act to interterritorial commerce and for the first time gave to the Commission the power to
fix rates. In so doing it made the act completely comprehensive,
and the power given to the Commission superseded the power of
the Secretary of the Interior to revise and modify rates of railroads
in Alaska given by § 2 of the act of May 14, 1898, 30 Stat. 409,
c. 299.
Mandamus can be issued to direct performance of a ministerial act
but not to control discretion. It may be directed to a tribunal, one
acting in a judicial capacity, to proceed in a manner according to
his or its discretion.
The jurisdiction to determine jurisdiction, Ex parte Harding,219 U. S.
363, does not exist in an administrative body which is subject to
having its jurisdicton defined by the courts.
The United States Commerce Court has no jurisdiction to review the
action of the Interstate Commerce Commission in refusing to entertain a complaint because the subject is beyond its jurisdiction. In
such a case the remedy is by mandamus to compel the Commission

INT. COM. COM. v. HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP CO. 475
224 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to.proceed and decide the case according to its judgment and discretion.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has jurisdiction to investigate
violations of the Act to Regulate Commerce in Alaska, and to compel carriers in that Territory to conform to the law; and if the Commission refuses to act on the ground that it has no jurisdiction,
mandamus will issue directing it to take jurisdiction.
39 Washington Law Reporter, 386, affirmed, and 19 I. C. C. 81, disapproved.
THE facts, which involve the status of common carriers
in Alaska under the Interstate Commerce Act, and the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission over
common carriers in Alaska, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor plaintiff in error:
Alaska is not a Territory of the United States within
the meaning of § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
Matter of Water Carriersin Alaska, 19 I. C. C. 81.
In the jurisdictional clause of the Hepburn Act, the
District of Alaska is not included by name and the word
"District" as used in that section is confined to the District of Columbia.
Alaska has never been officially designated as a Territory: see act of May 17, 1884; Rev. Stat. 1 Sup., c. 53,
p. 430; act of June 4, 1887, providing for the appointment
of commissioners of deeds and a marshal; act of July 24,
1897, providing for the appointment of a surveyor general;
act of June 6, 1900, 31 Stat. 321, making further provision
for a civil government for Alaska.
In the Appropriation Acts of 1907 and 1908, 34 Stat.
963, and 35 Stat. 212, Alaska is called a District, while
Arizona, New Mexico, and Hawaii are described as
Territories. See also acts of January 27, 1905, 33 Stat.
616; of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1262 and 1265; § 1, act of
February 4, 1887; act of June 18, 1910.
At the time the amendment of June 29, 1906, was
passed Congress was acquainted with the rulings of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

224 U. S.

Commission that the District of Alaska is not a Territory
of the United States within the meaning of § 1 of the Act
to Regulate Commerce. See the Townsend Bill (H. R.
17536), reported to the Whole House by the Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce in the second session
of the Sixty-first Congress on April 1, 1910; and the
Fletcher Bill (S. 9975), introduced January 9, 1911.
Both attempts to place common carriers operating lines
of transportation in Alaska under the control of the Commission failed.
Under these circumstances, this court will consider
itself bound by the interpretation of the Commission,
which is the tribunal primarily charged with the enforcement of the provisions of said act. See New Haven R. R.
Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, holding that an
interpretation placed on the act by the Commission in the
cases of Haddock v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 4 I. C. C.
Rep. 296, and Coxe Bros. & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co.,
4 I. C. C. Rep. 535, was binding upon the court.
The authority conferred upon the Secretary of the
Interior by the act of May 14, 1898, has not been taken
away by § 10 of the Hepburn Law. The law does not
favor repeals by implication, Alaska is not referred to by
name either in the Hepburn Law or in the act to regulate commerce, and Congress has never specifically conferred upon the Commission jurisdiction over any common
carrier in any district of the United States except the
District of Columbia.
Mandamus is not a proper proceeding in which to
correct an error of law like that alleged in the petition.
Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522; West v.
Hitchcock, 19 App. D. C. 333, 342; Decatur v. Paulding,
14 Pet. 497, 514; United States v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, 48;
United States v. Guthrie, 17 How. 284; Georgia v. Stanton,
6 Wall. 50; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; United States
v. Windom, 137 U. S. 636, 644; United States v. Blaine,

INT. COM. COM. v. HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP CO. 477
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

139 U. S. 306, 319; United States v. Lamont, 155 U. S.
303, 308; Kimberlin v. Commission to Five Civilized Tribes
et al., 104 Fed. Rep. 653.
The preliminary question of jurisdiction the Commission
decided was as much within the scope of its authority as
any other which could arise. Having resolved it in the
negative, there was no occasion for the Commission to
look further into the case. Only a reversal by the tribunal
of appeal can revive it, and cast upon the Commission the
duty of further action in the premises.
This proceeding in mandamus is not the only remedy
open to defendant in error. See Proctor & Gamble Co. v.
United States, 188 Fed. Rep. 221.
Mr. Charles D. Drayton, with whom Mr. John B. Daish
and Mr. James Wickersham were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The ultimate question in the case is whether Alaska is
a Territory of the United States within the meaning of
the Interstate Commerce Act as amended.
The Interstate Commerce Commission resolved the
question in the negative and dismissed the petition of the
Humboldt Steamship Company, the relator, which alleged violations of the act by the White Pass & Yukon
Railway Company, operating in Alaska, applying its decision in Matter of JurisdictionOver Rail and Water Carriers Operating in Alaska, 19 I. C. C. Rep. 81.
The steamship company instituted an action in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia praying for a
mandamus against the Commission to require it to take
jurisdiction and proceed as required by the act and grant
the relief for which the steamship company had petitioned,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

hereinafter specifically mentioned. The proceeding was
dismissed. The court expressed the view that the Commission had "ample authority to assume jurisdiction over
common carriers in Alaska, the same as in any other
Territory, and over those carriers operating between the
State of Washington and Alaska, and between Alaska and
Canada, and if they took jurisdiction no one could successfully question their right to do so." The court, however,
held that it had no power "to require the Interstate
Commerce Commission to act contrary to its own judgment in a matter wherein, after investigation, it had
reached a conclusion, honestly and fairly, which might be
contrary to the conclusion which the court would reach."
The Court of Appeals, to which court the case was
taken by the steamship company, entertained the same
view of the Interstate Commerce Act as that expressed
by the Supreme Court, but took a different view of the
power of the courts to compel action upon the part of the
Commission, and reversed the judgment of the Supreme
Court and remanded the cause, "with directions to issue
a peremptory writ of mandamus directed to the Interstate
Commerce Commission requiring it to take jurisdiction
of said cause and proceed therein as by law required."
To this ruling the Interstate Commerce Commission prosecutes this writ of error.
The proceedings before the Commission were instituted
by the steamship company filing a petition (No. 2578)
against the White Pass & Yukon Route, consisting of the
Pacific & Arctic Railway & Navigation Company, British
Qolumbia-Yukon Railway Company, British-Yukon Railway Company, and British-Yukon Navigation Company,
to require said companies to file with the Commission, in
the form prescribed by the Act to Regulate Commerce,
and to print and keep openfor public inspection, schedules
showing their rates and charges for transportation of
passengers and property between points in Alaska and

INT. COM. COM. v. HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP CO. 479
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

points in the Dominion of Canada and other places; to
establish through routes and joint rates in conjunction
with the petitioner between certain named places in
Alaska and Seattle, in the State of Washington; to afford
all reasonable, proper and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines; and to
cease and desist from preventing by sundry devices the
carriage of freights from being continuous from place of
shipment to place of destination when such freight is
originated or in any wise handled by the Humboldt
Steamship Company.
The companies proceeded against filed answers. There
were intervening companies on both sides of the controversy.
A hearing was assigned and had in October, 1909, and
subsequently, July 6, 1910, the Commission decided that
it was "without jurisdiction to make the order sought by
complainant," resting its ruling upon the authority of its
decision in Matter of JurisdictionOver Rail and Water Carriers Operating in Alaska, supra.
Section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act provides
that the provisions of the act "shall apply to any .
common carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation
of passengers or property wholly by railroad (or partly by
railroad and partly by water when both are used under
a common control, management, or arrangement for a
continuous carriage or shipment), from one State or
Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia,
to any other State or Territory of the United States, or
the District of Columbia, or from one place in a Territory
to another place in the same Territory, . . . or from
any place in the United States through a foreign country
to any other place in the United States. . . ." 34
Stat. 584.
The pivotal words are: "From one State or Territory
of the United States . .
to any other State or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

Territory,
or from one place in a Territory to
another place in the same Territory," "Territory" being
the especially significant word.
If we may venture to reduce to a single proposition an
elaborate discussion of elements and considerations, we
may say that the Commission gave to the word "territory" the signification of "organized territory," the chief
and determining feature of which is a local legislature as
distinguished from a territory having a more rudimentary
and less autonomous form of government which it considered Alaska possessed.
To this signification and distinction the arguments of
counsel are addressed, and much of the reasoning of the
lower courts. That field, however, has been traversed by
cases in this court, and it need not again be passed over.
We may accept and apply the conclusions which have
been reached and expressed.
In the case of Steamer Coquitlam v. United States, 163
U. S. 346, the relation of the courts of Alaska to the
Federal judicial system and the applicability of certain
statutes concerning the same were decided, after a review
of those statutes and those defining the status of Alaska.
By the fifteenth section of the act of March 3, 1891,
creating the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is provided that
the Circuit Court of Appeals, in cases in which the judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeal are made final by
this act, shall have "the same appellate jurisdiction, by
writ of error or appeal, to review the judgments, orders,
and decrees of the supreme courts of the several Territories as by this act they may have to review the judgments, orders, and decrees of the district courts and circuit courts; and for that purpose the several Territories
shall, by orders of the supreme court, to be made from
time to time, be assigned to particular circuits." 26 Stat.
826, 830, c. 517.
In execution of the duty imposed by that section, this

INT. COM. COM. v. HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP CO. 481
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court, by an order promulgated May 11, 1891, assigned
Alaska to the Ninth Judicial Circuit.
Subsequent to this order the United States brought a
suit in admiralty in the District Court of Alaska for the
forfeiture of the steamer. Coquitlam because of an alleged
violation of the revenue laws. A decree was rendered for
the United States and an appeal was prosecuted to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The
United States disputed the jurisdiction of the court on the
grounds: (1) that the District Court of Alaska was not a
district court within the meaning of the sixth section of the
Circuit Court of Appeals Act; and (2) that the District
Court of Alaska was not a Supreme Court of a Territory
within the meaning of that act and the order of this court
assigning Alaska to the Ninth Circuit.
The court certified the questions to this court. We
answered the first in the negative and the second in the
affirmative. We said, through Mr. Justice Harlan, that
the Circuit Court of Appeals Act was necessarily interpreted by this court as conferring appellate jurisdiction
upon the Circuit Court of Appeals when by the "order of
May 11, 1891, 139 U. S. 707, Alaska was assigned to the
Ninth Circuit." And it was further said (p. 352): "Alaska
is one of the Territories of the United States. It was so
designated in that order and has always been so regarded.
And the court established by the act of 1884 (providing
for a civil government for Alaska) is the court of last
resort within the limits of that Territory. . . . No
reason can be suggested why a Territory of the United
States, in which the court of last resort is called a Supreme
Court, should be assigned to some circuit established by
Congress that does not apply with full force to the Territory of Alaska, in which the court of last resort is designated as the District Court of Alaska. The title of the
territorial court is not so material as its character."
The case needs no comment. It clearly defines the
VOL. ccxxiv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
. Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

relation of Alaska to the rest of the United States. It
was not a description of a definite area of land or "landed
possession," but of a political unit, governing and being
governed as such.
This view is reinforced by other cases. In Binns v.
United States, 194 U. S. 486, 490, 491, we said, through
Mr. Justice Brewer, that we had held in Steamer Coquitlam
v. United States that "Alaska is one of the Territories of
the United States." And also: "Nor can it be doubted
that it is an organized Territory, for the act of May 17,
1884, 23 Stat. 24, entitled 'An act providing a civil government for Alaska,' provided: That the territory ceded
to the United States by Russia by the treaty of March
thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, and known
as Alaska, shall constitute a civil and judicial district, the
government of which shall be organized and administered
as hereinafter provided."
In Binns v. United States the fact of a local legislature,
or indeed any special form of government, was not considered as necessarily a feature of an organized Territory.
"It must be remembered," it was said, "that Congress in
the government of the Territories as well as of the District
of Columbia, has plenary power, save as controlled by the
provisions of the Constitution, that the form of government it shall establish is not prescribed, and may not
necessarily be the same in all the Territories." There is
much more in that case which might be quoted as establishing that the status of Alaska is that of an organized
Territory. See also Raosmussen v. United States, 197
U. S.516.
It is contended further by the Commission that railways
were first authorized to be constructed in Alaska by the
act passed May 14, 1898, 30 Stat. 409, c. 299, and that
§ 2 of the act provided as follows:
"That all charges for the transportation of freight and
passengers on railroads in the District of Alaska shall be

INT. COM. COM. v. HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP CO. 483
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

printed and posted as required by section six of an Act to
regulate commerce as amended on March second, eighteen
hundred and eighty-nine, and such rates shall be subject
to revision and modification by the Secretary of the Interior."
The argument is that this provision brings into force
§ 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act, and that, it is said,
"under familiar rules of construction, excludes the application of every other section in the act," and that, besides, the provision that the rates on the Alaskan railroads
should be subject to revision and modification by the
Secretary of the Interior "negatived the jurisdiction of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, even if Alaska was
apprehended to be within section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act."
These contentions do not seem to have been made in
either the Supreme Court of the District or in the Court of
Appeals. It was referred to very briefly as a circumstance
to be considered in a majority report of the Interstate
Commerce *Commission in the ruling case, and more at
length in the minority report. In the latter report important circumstances were pointed out. The Interstate
Commerce law preceded that which gave authority to the
Secretary of the Interior to revise and modify railroad
rates, and the authority was confined to that special
exercise, and, so far, it may be said to have amended the
Interstate Commerce Act. At that time it had been held
in the Maximum Rate Cases (162 U. S.184; 167 U. S.479,
and 168 U. S.144), that Congress had not conferred upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission the legislative
power to prescribe rates, either maximum, minimum or
absolute. The power to prescribe a rate was conferred by
the amendment of June 29, 1906, and that" amendment
extended the provisions of the act for the first time to
intraterritorial commerce. The amendment made the
act completely comprehensive of the whole subject and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

entirely superseded the minor authority which had been
conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior. As said by
the minority of the Commission: "There is no suggestion
of doubt that the ends-of justice require as much the application of the same principle and regulation in Alaska
as in New Mexico or Arizona." The two latter at the
time this was said were Territories.
It is next contended by the Commission that "mandamus is not a proper proceeding to correct an error of law
like that alleged in the petition."
The general principle which controls the issue of a writ
of mandamus is familiar. It can be issued to direct the
performance of a ministerial act, but not to control discretion. It may be directed against a tribunal or one who
acts in a judicial capacity to require it or him to proceed,
the manner of doing so being left to its or his discretion. It
is true there may be a jurisdiction to determine the possession of jurisdiction. Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363.
But the full doctrine of that case cannot be extended to
administrative officers. The Interstate Commerce Commission is purely an administrative body. It is true it
may exercise and must exercise quasi judicial duties, but
its functions are defined and, in the main, explicitly
directed by the act creating it. It may act of its own
motion in certain instances-it may be petitioned to move
by those having rights .under the act. It may exercise
judgment and discretion, and, it may be, cannot be controlled in.either. But if it absolutely refuse to act, deny
its power, from a misunderstanding of the law, it cannot
be said to exercise discretion. Give it that latitude and
yet' give it the power to nullify its most essential duties,
and how would its non-action be reviewed? The answer
of the Commission is, by "a reversal by the tribunal of
appeal." And such a tribunal, it is intimated, is the
United States Commerce Court.
But the proposition is plainly without merit, even al-

INT. COM. COM. v. HUMBOLDT STEAMSHIP CO. 485
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

though it be conceded, for the sake of argument, that the
Commerce Court is by law vested with the exclusive
power to review any and every act of the Commission
taken in the exertion of the authority conferred upon it
by statute; that is, to exclusively review, not only affirmative orders of the Commission granting relief, but also
the action of that body in refusing to award relief on
the ground that an applicant was not entitled to relief.
This is so because the action of the Commission refusing
to entertain a petition on the ground that its subjectmatter was not within the scope of the powers conferred
upon it, would not be embraced within the hypothetical
concessions thus made. A like view disposes of the cases
relied upon in which it was decided that certain departmental orders were not susceptible of being reviewed by
mandamus. We do not propose to review the cases, as
we consider them to be plainly inapposite to the subject
f
in hand.
In the case at bar the Commission refused to proceed at
all, though the law required it to do so; and to so do as
required-that is, to take jurisdiction, not in what manner
to exercise it-is the effect of the decree of the Court of
Appeals, the order of the court being that a peremptory
writ of mandamus be issued directing the Commission
"to take jurisdiction of said cause and proceed therein as
by law required." In other words, to proceed to the
merits of the controversy, at which point the Commission
stopped because it was "constrained to hold," as it said,
"upon authority of the decision recently announced in
In the Matter of JurisdictionOver Rail and Water Carriers
Operating in Alaska, i9 I. C. C. Rep. 81, that the Commission is without jurisdiction to make the order sought
by complainant," the steamship company.
Judgment affirmed.

