AM. SECURITY CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA. 401
224 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

AMERICAN SECURITY AND TRUST'COMPANY
v. COMMISSIONERS OF THE DISTRICT O1'

COLUMBIA.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted April 15, 1912.-Decide! April 29, 1912.

The jurisdiction of this court to rexamine final judgments or decrees
of the Court otf Appeals of the District of Columbia under 1 250
of the Judicial Code of Marh "3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1087, c. 231, in
cases in which the construction of a law of the United States is
drawn in question, does not extend to cases where the act of Congress construed by that court is a purely local law relating to the
District of -Columbia, but only extends to those having a general
application throughout the United States.
In construing a statute the same phrase may have different meanings
when used in different connections.
Section 250 of the Judicial Code should be strictly construed, as the
intent of Congress was to relieve this court from indiscriminate
appeals where the amount involved exceeded $5,000.
All cases in the District of Columbia arise under acts of Congress; and
to so construe § 250 of the Judicial Code as to include the case at
bar, because the construction of h local street extension act was involved, would largely and irrationally increase the appellate jurisdiction and the statute will not be construed so as to include such
cases even if within its literal meaning. Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 437.
Writ of error to review 40 Washington Law Reporter, 34, denied.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, in regard to
appeals to this court from the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Win. G. Johnson for petitioner:
The jurisdiction of this court to review the judgment of
the Court of Appeals is based upon § 250, Judicial Code,

providing that any final judgment or decree of the Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Petitioher.

224 U. S.

of Appeals of the District of Columbia may be refxamined
and affirmed, reversed, or modified by this court upon
writ of error or appeal, when the construction of any law of
the United States is drawn in question by the defendant.
Upon this provision of the statute but two questions
can arise affecting the jurisdiction of this court; namely,
(1) was the construction of the above-recited statutes
drawn in question by the defendant, and (2) are those
statutes within the descriptive words "any law of the
United States," as those words are used in § 250 of the
Judicial Code.
In this case the construction of the statutes was drawn
in question by the defendants.
The statute is, itself, an instruction to the jury, and the
instruction objected to by defendants and the one asked
by defendants, of necessity, drew in question the construction of the statute.
The words "any law of the United States" embrace
the statutes, the construction of which was drawn in
question in this case.
. The two acts of' Congress, the construction of which
was drawn in question in this case, are laws of the United
States. Every legislative act of the Congress, whether
*local or general, is a law of the United States, and is so
defined in the Constitution.
While it is freely conceded that the word "any" like
other words, may have a greater or less extensiveness,
according to the intent with which it is used, still, in
general, it embraces each and every object in the class to
which it is applied. United States v. Palmer,3 Wheat. 610;
Collector v. Hubbard, 12 Wall. 1.
Uniformity of statutory construction is not the object
or effect of the statute.
The appellate jurisdiction conferred upon this court by
clause 6 of § 250, novel in the legislation of Congress on
the subject of appellate jurisdiction, and extending to but

AM. SECURITY CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA. 493
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

one court in the entire judicial system of the Nation, cannot, by any possibility, even tend to produce uniformity
of decisions as to the construction of laws of the United
States of national application. Being wholly unadapted
and incompetent to produce uniformity of decision, the
clause in question cannot properly be said to have been
framed with that object, in the absence of any such
declared purpose in the statute, and the inference, ,that
the clause should be confined to general statutes of the
United States as distinguished from those of purely local
application, based, as it is, upon that supposed purpose of
the legislature, is without foundation. See Parsons v.
Dist. of Col., 170 U. S.45; Balt. & Pot. R. R. v. Hopkins,
130 U. S.210.
Nor is the relief of this court involved; whether this was
the intention of the act admits of serious question. No
such purpose is declared in the statute and it is not to be
inferred from provisions expressly conferring additional
appellate jurisdiction upon this court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application for a writ of error to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia under the new Judicial Code. Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231. 36 Stat. 1087.
The Court of Appeals denied the writ. Thereupon application was made to the Chief Justice. He referred it to
the court. Briefs were called for and one was submitted
by the applicants. It now is to be decided whether the
writ should be allowed.
By § 250 of the Code any final judgment or decree of
the Court of Appeals may be reexamined 'in the following cases:

.

.

.

Sixth. In cases in which the con-

struction of any law of the United States is drawn in
question by the defendant.' This is the clause relied
upon. The case was a suit for the condemnation of land
brought by the Commissioners under a special act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

February 6, 1909, c. 75, 35 Stat. 597, for the extension of
New York Avenue. By that act the procedure was to
follow subchapter one of chapter fifteen of the District
Code, which provides among other things for the separate
assessment of benefits. Act of March 3, 1901, c. 854.
31 Stat. 1189, 1266. The jury were instructed that by the
extension of the avenue they were to understand its establishment, laying out and completion for all the ordinary uses of a public thoroughfare. The applicants contended that, as there was no present provision for grading,
paving, laying water mains or sewers, or otherwise opening the avenue to traffic, any advantage that would accrue from such improvements if made must be disregarded; and so they say that they drew the construction
of the special act and perhaps of the Code in question,
and that these were laws of the United States.
We do not stop to consider whether any question of
construction properly can be said to have been raised,
rather than a question of general law in the application of
words that were colorless so far as the point in controversy
was concerned. It might not be just to assume that the
general averment of the application was not justified by
exceptions more clearly turning on the construction of the
local laws than the example given in the brief. The
ground on which the writ was refused by the Court of
Appeals was that the words quoted from § 250 should not
be construed to apply to the purely local laws of the District, and with that view we agree.
Of course there is no doubt that the special act of Congress was in one sense a law of the United States. It well
may be that it would fall within the meaning of the same
words in the third clause of the same section: 'Cases involving the constitutionality of any law of the United
States.' Parsons v. District of Columbia, 170 U. S. 45.
But it needs no authority to show that the same phrase
may have different meanings in different connections.

AM. SECURITY CO. v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA. 495
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Some reasons for strict construction apply here. We are
entirely convinced that Congress intended to effect a
substantial relief to this court from indiscriminate appeals
where a sum above $5,000 was involved, and to that end
repealed the former act. See Carey v. Houston & Texas
Central Ry. Co., 150 U. S. 170, 179. Cochran v. Montgomery County, 199 U. S. 260, 272, 273. But all cases in
the District arise under acts of Congress and probably it
would require little ingenuity to raise a question of construction in almost any one of them. If, then, the words
have the rifeaning given them by the applicants the appellate jurisdiction of this court has been largely and
irrationally increased. We believe Congress meant no
such result.
A well-known example of construing a statute not to
include a case that indisputably was within its literal
meaning, but was believed not to be within the aim of
Congress, is Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States,
143 U. S. 457; we may refer further to Cochran v. Montgomery County, ubi supra. In the case at bar if the words
'construction of any law of the United States' are confined to the construction of laws having general application throughout the United States the jurisdiction given
to this court by § 250 is confined to what naturally and
properly belongs to it. If they are construed the other
way it would have been less arbitrary to provide that
every question of law could be taken up. That they were
not to be understood as the applicant contends is to be
inferred not only from the sense of the thing but from
clause first: 'In cases where the jurisdiction of the trial
court is in issue,' with provision for certifying that question alone. It is difficult to imagine a case in which the
jurisdiction of the trial court is in issue where the construction of a special law of the United States would not
be drawn in question.
Writ of error denied.

