OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Syllabus.

224 U. S.

complain that they were deprived of the equal protection
of the law, because in the civil proceeding they were not
tried in the manner, and subjected to the judgment,
appropriate in criminal cases.
* If the plaintiffs in error were afforded due process of
law, and were not deprived of the equal protection of the
law, the judgment cannot be reversed. And, if it cannot
be reversed, it cannot be modified to provide that it shall
not be construed to conflict with a decree entered in an
equity cause in another court to which plaintiffs are
parties. Neither can it be amended by adding a provision that the judgment of ouster shall not operate to
make those who buy plaintiff's products subject to prosecution, under the act of 1907, making it a felony for any
person to deal in articles manufactured by a corporation
whose license had been forfeited. This statute which,
it is said, will deprive plaintiffs of the right to do interstate business, is not before us. We have no right to
assume that it will be applied so as to interfere with any
right, which plaintiffs have, under the Constitution, to
do interstate business.
Affirmed.

CROZIER v. FRIED. KRUPP AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 8. Argued April 30, 1911.-Decided April 8, 1912.
Prior to the passage of the act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 851, c. 423,
a patentee, whose patent was infringed by an officer of the United

States, could not sue the United States unless a contract to pay was
implied; and the object of the statute is to afford a remedy under

circumstances where no contract can be implied, but where the

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

property rights of the inventor have been appropriated by an
officer of the United States for its benefit and the acts of such officer
ratified by the Government by the adoption of such act.
Compensation for property taken under eminent domain need not
necessarily be made in advance of the taking if adequate means be
provided for a reasonably just and prompt ascertainment and
payment thereof.
The duty to provide for payment of compensation for property taken
under eminent domain may be adequately fulfilled by an assumption of such duty by a pledge either express or by necessary implication of the public good faith to that end.
The act of June 25, 1910, having afforded a remedy for a patentee
whose property rights have been appropriated by an officer of the
United States for the benefit of the Government, such patentee is
entitled to maintain an action in the Court of Claims to have his
compensation determined, and the statute makes full and adequate
provisions for the exercise of power of eminent domain.
Since the enactment of the act of June 25, 1910, a patentee cannot
maintain an action for injunction against an officer of the United
States for infringing his patent for the benefit of the Government;
his remedy is to sue in the Court of Claims for compensation.
In this case held that although this action was commenced before
June 25, 1910, as it was confined solely to obtaining an injunction
against future use, which cannot now be allowed, the action must be
dismissed without prejudice to the right of the patentee to proceed
in the Court of Claims for compensation under the act of 1910.
32 App. D. C. 1, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a patentee to enjoin an officer of the United States from using the patent,
and the construction and effect of the act of June 25, 1910,
conferring jurisdiction on the Court of Claims in certain
instances of claims of patentees against the United States,
for use of patents, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Stuart McNamara, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Attorney Generalwas on the brief,
for petitioner:
The suit is unauthorized, being either against the
United States directly, which is the only person to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Petitioner.

224 U. S.

affected by the decree, in which case a necessary party
is wanting; or indirectly against the United States through
the person of its officer and agent, for which proceeding
no authority is vouchsafed by law.
The rule that the Government is immune from suit
except where immunity is waived applies to the United
States. Bracton, de Leg., 168 B; Staunford Prerogative,
72 B; Hale, Analysis of Law, § 9; Doe v. Roe, 8 Mees. and
W. 579. It cannot be subjected to legal proceedings at
law or in equity without its consent, and whoever institutes such proceedings must bring his case within the
authority of some act of Congress. United States v. Clark,
8 Pet. 444. The same exemption from judicial process
extends to the property of the United States and for the
same reasons. The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 154.
The United States has consented to be sued through
successive acts of Congress. These suits must be filed in
the Court of Claims or in the Circuit or District Courts of
the United States. The first consent was granted in the act
of February 24, 1855, 10 Stat., c. 122, p. 612, followed by
the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat., c. 92, p. 765, and the
act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat., c. 359, p. 509, with amendments, and finally in the recent act (passed since the
decree below) of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat., c. 423, p. 853.
Under the statutes the United States may be sued on
a contract where it or its representatives have used the
inventions under a contract made by the United States
with the owner of the invention. United States v. Palmer,
128 U. S. 262; United States v. Berdan Company, 156
U. S. 552. The United States may also be sued under an
implied contract, where it has appropriated the patented
property of an individual under circumstances implying an agreement on the part of the Government to
pay reasonable compensation therefor. United States v.
Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; United States v.
Alexander, 148 U. S. 186, 191. But the Government

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

cannot be sued in cases of tort. The United States has
not consented to be sued in actions sounding in tort for
wrongs done by their officers, even though in the discharge
of official duties. Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 269;
Langford v. United States, 101 U. S. 341; Hill v. United
States, 149 U. S. 593; Schillinger v. United States, 155
U. S. 163; Russell v. United States, 182 U. S. 516; Stanley
v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508, 512.
This immunity does not extend to the officers of the
Government. In times of peace they are personally
liable to an individual whose rights of property they
have wrongfully invaded, even by authority of the United
States. Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204. Such officers,
although acting under the orders of the Government,
are personally liable to be sued for their own infringement of a patent. Cammeyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225, 235.
In the recent act, approved June 25, 1910, the patentee
is given still further authority to sue the United States,
and he may now file suit in the Court of Claims to recover
compensation where his patents have been used without
his consent, though there be no contract with the Governient, express or implied. The conceit of suing the
officer in this case does not save the proceeding from its
necessary gravitation into its reality as a suit against the.
United States and its property. The United States cannot be sued in this indirect manner any more readily
than in a direct proceeding. Bclknap v. Schild, 161 U. S.
10; InternationalPostalSupply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601.
The petitioner has no interest in the suit, has made no
profits, and no damages are asked from him.
The frame of the bill seeking to enjoin the future
making of field guns and carriages does not take the
case out of the rule. The injunction, if granted, necessarily affects only the Government and its property.
Dashiellv. Grosvenor, 162 U. S. 424.
The dominion of the owner of a patent confers no

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Petitioner.

224 U. S.

rights greater than those of the owner of other property.
He may secure compensation from the Government for
the taking of his patented property, but he may not restrain the taking. Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S.
163, 168.
A very important branch of public policy supports
the doctrine of the immunity of the United States from
being sued and enjoined by a patentee under such circumstances as these. The Government has reserved no
right in the patents conferred superior to that bestowed,
but it must retain its own sovereignty, one incident of
which is the right to be free from being enjoined in its
public works whenever a litigant may conceive an infringement and resort to suit.
Plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had by
respondent for the invasion of its patents and no circumstances of the case warrant the court's interference by
injunction, even if jurisdiction to do so otherwise existed.
Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114
U. S. 270; Armstrong-Whitworth Co. v. Norton, 15 App.
D. C. 223; United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196.
Wholly apart from the considerations which apply to.
a case where, as in the case at bar, effort is being made to
enjoin the United States, there is still no authority for
the injunction even were both parties private litigants,
for under the circumstances the rule of the apportionment
of hardships would be invoked and the injunction accordingly denied. Courts of equity frequently weigh the
relative hardship inuring to the complainant if the injunction be denied, and to the defendant, if it be granted.
And if it appear that the injury resulting to the defendant
from the granting of the injunction would be harsher
and more oppressive than that falling to the complainant
if it be denied, the courts will remit the complainant to
his other remedy and refuse to enjoin. Gerken v. Hall,
71 N. Y. Suppl. 753; Gray v. Patterson, 45 Atl. Rep.

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

295

Argument for Respondent.

995, N. J., 1900; Lloyd v. Catlin Co., 210 Illinois, 460;
Smith v. Sands, 24 Fed. Rep. 470; Bowers Dredging Co.
v. N. Y. Dredging Co., 77 Fed Rep. 980; Huntington v.
Alpha PortlandCement Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 534.
Mr. William A. Jenner for respondent:
The right of a patentee to make, use and vend the
patented invention is exclusive of the Government of
the United States as well as of all others, and any use of
such invention unauthorized by the owner of the letters
patent, whether done directly by the United States or
indirectly through one of its officers, is a violation of that
right. Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10; Hollister v.
Benedict Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59; James v. Campbell, 104
U. S. 356; Cammeyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225, 235; United
States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246.
The fact that the invasion of a plaintiff's property is
done by a defendant while acting in his official capacity
as an officer of the United States Government or of a
state government does not of itself justify the wrong nor
deprive' plaintiff of the relief which otherwise the court
would grant. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Osborn v.
United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Board of Liquidation
v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531, 541; Allen v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. R., 114 U. S. 311; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140
U. S. 1; Howell v. Miller, 91 Fed. Rep. 129; American
School of Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; United
States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.
204; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270; Bates v.
Clark, 95 U. S. 204; Teal v. Felton, 12 How. 284; Little
v. Barreme, 2 Cr. 169; Elliott v. Swarthout, 10 Pet. 137.
Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10; International Postal
Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601, do not sustain the
defendant's contention, and the facts and the prayer for
relief in those cases are materially different from those in
the case at bar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Respondent.

224 U. S.

The courts have frequently entertained jurisdiction of
actions brought to enjoin officers of the United States
from infringement of letters patent. Dashiell v. Grosvenor, 162 U. S. 425; Cammeyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225;
James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356; Hollister v. Mfg. Co.,
113 U. S. 59.
The argument that an injunction against the manufacture by defendant of guns and gun carriages infringing
complainant's pateht would in effect be an injunction
against the free use by the United States of the material
at its arsenals used in the manufacture of guns and gun
carriages, and that the case is within Belknap v. Schild
and InternationalPostal Supply Co. v. Bruce, is untenable.
See Howell v. Miller, 91 Fed. Rep. 129.
The complainant had no remedy at law for the infringement by defendant of its patents.
It was intimated in James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. 356,
and Hollister v. Manufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 59, that
an action would lie within the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims to recover from the Government upon, an implied
promise to compensate a patentee for the use by the Government, or one of its officers, of his patented invention,
but it was later settled that such a suit could not be maintained either in the Court of Claims, Shillinger v. United
States, 155 U. S. 163, or in the Circuit Cout of the United
States, Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593.
If the officers of the United States have .since the act
approved June 25, 1910, used or shall hereafter use complainant's patented design, it is possible or probable that
complainant may receive reasonable compensation under
that act in the Court of Claims, but that possibility does
not operate to defeat complainant's right to the equitable
relief sought when the bill was filed.
The general rule is that where jurisdiction in equity
has become established, a subsequent statute creating
a remedy at law or removing the obstacles at -law upon

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the existence of which the equity jurisdiction was origi-_
nally founded does not oust eqhity of that jurisdiction,
unless the statute affirmatively discloses the legislative
intent to make the legal remedy exclusive. 16 Cyc. 34,
and cases cited, and see White v. Meday, 2 EdW. Ch.
(N. Y.) 486; New York Ins. Co. v. Roulet, 24 Wend. 504514; Mayne v. Griswold, 2 Sandf. (Sup. Ct. 'N. Y.) 463;
Saitly v. Elmore, 2 Paige, 497; Labadie v. Hewitt, 85 Illinois, 341; McNab v. Heald 41 Illinois, 326; Crass v. R. R.,
96 Alabama, 447; Hardemanv. Bat~rlea,53 Georgia, 36.
The act of June 25, 1910, does not evidence any intent
to oust equity when its jurisdiction had attached because
there is no expression' and the act is not retroactive.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The defendant, a corporation organized under the laws
of the German Empire, commenced this suit on June 8,
1907; in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Rdlief was sought because of alleged infringements of
three described letters patent of the United States, originally issued in the name of Fried. Krupp and assigned to
the corporation. Two of the patents, numbered 722,724
and 722,725, were granted in 1903, and the third, issued
in 1905, was numbered 791,347. The patents related to
improvements in guns and gun carriages. The petitioner
here, William Crozier, was named as sole defendant in the
bill.
After full averments as to the issue of the patents and
the assignments by which the plaintiff had become the
owner thereof, it was charged that the defendant Crozier
well knowing of the existence of the patents "in violation
and infringement of said letters patent and of the exclusive rights granted and secured under said letters
patent . .
since the seventeenth day of March,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

1903, and within the period of six (6) years prior to the
filing of this bill of complaint, in the city of Bridgeport,
State of Connecticut, and in the Watervliet Arsenal in
the State of New York, and in the Rock Island Arsenal
in the State of Illinois, . . . and elsewhere in the
United States," has "made and used, or caused to be
made and used, is now making and causing to be made
and used and threatens and intends to continue to make
or cause to be made and to use and cause to be used,"
guns and recoil-brake apparatus and guns and gun carriages embodying the inventions owned by the complainant, in violation of the rights secured by the patents.
The prayer was for a preliminary and a permanent
writ enjoining the defendant "his agents and employ~s,
from making or using or causing to be made or used any
guns or gun carriages or other devices which shall contain
or employ the inventions or any of the inventions covered
and secured by said letters patent or any of said letters
patent." There was also a prayer that the defendant
"may be compelled to account for and pay over to your
orator all the profits which the defendant has or had
derived from any making or using of any gun or any
specimen or device covered and secured by said letters
patent or any of said letters patent, and that also the
defendant be decreed to pay all damages which your
orator has incurred or shall incur upon account of defendant's infringement of any of said letters patent, with such
increase thereof as shall be meet... .
A stipulation was filed in the cause, in which, while
expressly reserving the right of the defendant "to demur
or otherwise plead to the bill of complaint, because of lack
of jurisdiction on any ground, it was agreed as follows:
"The complainant stipulates that no pecuniary benefit
has accrued to the defendant, William Crozier, by reason
of the acts set forth in the bill, and complainant waives
any claim against said defendant for an accounting of the

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

profits or for damages, if any, arising out of or suffered
by the complainant by reason of the acts and things set
forth in the bill. Defendant stipulates and agrees that
the Government of the United States of America and
the Ordnance Department of said Government have manufactured, are now manufacturing, and intend to continue the manufacture and use, or to cause to be manufactured for their use, field guns and carriages made
after-the so-called 'Model of 1902' referred to in the bill
of complaint, the claim or claims of complainant being
in nowise admitted; that the defendant, William Crozier,
sued in this suit is an officer in the United States Army
and Chief of the Ordnance of the United States Army, and
is the officer in the service of the United States who
directs and is in charge of such manufacture of said field
guns and carriages for the United States. The complainant concedes that the defendant, William Crozier, is such
officer. The defendant further stipulates and agrees that
the complainant is a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the Empire of Germany and a citizen of
said Empire and a subject of the Emperor of Germany.
I "Further, complainant desires to amend its bill in
certain particulars, and the defendant desires to consent
thereto. It is therefore stipulated that the bill of complaint herein be amended to read as follows: In paragraph XXXII of said bill shall be eliminated and expunged
the words 'a preliminary and also,' and also the words
'or using' and the words 'or used,' so that the said 32nd
paragraph of said bill of complaint shall, when so amended,
read as follows:
''"And your orator therefore prays your honors to grant
unto your orator a permanent writ of injunction issuing
out of and under the seal of this honorable court directed
'to the said defendant, William Crozier, and strictly enjoining him, his agents and employ6s, from making or
causing to be made any guns or gun carriages or other

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

devices which shall contain or employ the inventions
or any of the inventions covered and secured by said
letters patent or any of said letters patent.'
"Paragraph XXXIII of said bill of complaint shall
be amended so as to eliminate and expunge from said
paragraph the following words:
"'by a decree of this court may be compelled to account
for and pay over to your orator all the profits which the
defendant has or had derived from any making or using of
any gun or any specimen-or device covered and secured by
said letters patent or any of said letters patent, and that
also the defendant be decreed to pay all damages which
your orator has incurred or shall incur upon account of
defendant's infringement of any of such letters patent,
with such increase thereof as shall seem meet, and that
also the defendant'
"so that the paragraph marked XXXIII when so
amended shall read as follows:
"'And your orator further prays that the defendant
be decreed to pay the costs of this suit and that your
orator may have such other and further relief as the
equity of the cause or the statutes of the United States
may require and to this court may seem just."'
The defendant demurred to the amended bill on various
grounds, all of which, in substance, challenged the jurisdiction of the court over the cause on the ground that
the suit was really against the United States.
The demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed.
The Court of Appeals reversed and remanded the cause for
further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion.
32 App. D. C. 1.
The court held that there was a broad distinction between interfering by injunction with the use by the United
States of its property anid the granting of a writ of injunction for the purpose of preventing the wrongful
taking of private property, even although the individual

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who was enjoined from such taking was an officer of the
Government, and although the purpose of the proposed
taking was to appropriate the private property when
taken to a governmental purpose. The cases of Belknap
v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10, and Intrnational Postal Supply
Company v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601, were analyzed and
held to be apposite solely to the first proposition, that is
the want of authority to interfere with the property of the
United States used for a governmental purpose. The
court said:
"It will thus be seen that in the Belknap and Bruce
Cases the subject-matter involved was property of the
United States, and that, therefore, the United States was
necessarily a party. In the present case it is not sought
to disturb the United States in the possession and use
of the guns already manufactured.
The court is not
asked to deal with property of the United States. The
plaintiff simply asks that an officer of the United States
be restrained from invading rights granted by the Government itself. The acts complained Of are not only not
sanctioned by any law, but are inconsistent with the
patent laws of the United States."
A writ of certiorari was thereupon allowed.
The arguments at bar ultimately considered but affirm
on the one, hand and deny on the other the ground of
distinction upon which the court below placed its ruling
and by which the decisions in Belknap v. Schild and
International'PostalSupply Company v. Bruce were held
to be distinguishable from the case in hand, and therefore
not to be controlling. Thus the Government insists that
although under the stipulation and the bill as amended,
it resulted that no damages were sought in respect to use
by the Government of the patented inventions, and no
interference of any kind was asked with property belonging
to the Government, nevertheless the suit was against the
United States, because the defendant was conceded to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

an officer of the Army of the United States, engaged in the
duty of making or causing to be made guns or gun carriages
tor the Army of the United States. This, it is contended,
is demonstrated to be the case by considering that the
right to enjoin the officer of the United States, which. the
court below upheld, virtually asserts the existence of a
judicial power to close every arsenal of the United States.
On the other hand, the plaintiff insists that the act of the
officer in wrongfully attempting to take its property
cannot be assumed to be a governmental act, but must
be treated as an individual wrong which the courts have
the authority to prevent. The exertion of the power to
enjoin a wrong of that nature in order to prevent the illegal conversion of private property is, it is urged, a manifestly different thing from using the process of injunction
to interfere with property in the possession of the Government and which is being used for a public, purpose.
But we do not think, under the conditions which presently
exist, we are called upon to consider the correctness of
the theory upon which the Court of Appeals placed its
decision or the soundness of the contentions at bar by
which that theory is supported on the one hand or assailed
on the other. We reach this conclusion because since
October 7, 1908, when the decision of the Court of Appeals.
was rendered, the subject to which the controversy
relates was dealt with by Congress by a law enacted on
June 25, 1910, 36 Stat., c. 423, p. 851, as follows:
"An Act To provide additional protection for owners of
patents. of the United States, and. for other purposes.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That whenever an invention described in and covered by
a patent of the United States shall hereafter be used by
the United States without license of the owner thereof
or lawful right to use the same, such owner may recover
reasonable compensation for such use by suit in the Court

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Claims: Provided, however, That said Court of Claims
shall not entertain a suit or reward [sic] compensation
under the provisions of this Act where the claim for compensation is based on the use by the United States'of any
article heretofore owned, leased, used by, or in the possession of the United States: Provided further, That in any
such suit the United States may avail itself of any and all
defenses, general or special, which might be pleaded by a
defendant in an action for infringement, as set, forth in
Title Sixty of the Revised Statutes, or otherwise: And
provided fdrther, That the benefits of this Act shall not
inure to any patentee, who, when he makes such claim
is in the employment or service of the Government of the
United States; or the assignee of any such patentee; nor
shall this Act apply to any device discovered or invented
by such employ6 during the time of his employment or
service."
The text of this statute leaves no room to doubt that
it was adopted in contemplation of the contingency of the
assertion by a patentee that rights secured to him by a
patent had been invaded for the benefit of the United
States by one of its officers, that is, that such officer under
the conditions stated had infringed a patent.
The enactment of the statute, we think, grew out of
the operation of the prior statute law concerning the right
to sue the United States for the act of an officer in infringing a patent as interpreted by repeated decisions of
this court. United States v. Palmer, 128 U. S. 62; Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163; United States v.
Berdan .Fire-Arms Mfg. Co., 156 U. S. 552; Russell v.
United States, 182 U. S. 516; Harley v. United States, 198
U. S. 229. The effect of the statute was thus pointed out
in the last cited case. (198 U. S. p. 234.)
"We held in Russell v. United States, 182 U. S. 516,
530, that in order to give the Court of Claims jurisdiction,
under the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 359,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

defining claims of which the Court of Claims had jurisdiction, the demand sued on must be founded on 'a convention between the parties-a coming together of minds.'
And we excluded, as not meeting this condition, those
contracts or obligations that the law is said to imply from
a tort. Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163; United
States v. Berdan Fire-Arms Mfg. Co., 156 U. S. 552."
In other words, the situation prior to the passage of the
act of 1910 was this. Where it was asserted that an officer
of the Government had infringed a patent right belonging
to another-in other words, had taken his property for the
benefit of the Government-the power to sue the United
States for redress did not obtain unless from the proof
it was established that a contract to pay could be implied-that is to say, that no right of action existed
against the United States for a mere act of wrongdoing
by its officers. Evidently inspired by the injustice of this
rule as applied to rights of the character of those embraced
by patents, because of the frequent possibility of their
infringement by the acts of officers under circumstances
which would not justify the implication of a contract,
the intention of the statute to create a remedy for this
condition is illustrated by the declaration in the title
that the statute was enacted "to provide additional
protection for owners of patents." To secure this end,
in comprehensive terms the statute provides that whenever
an invention described in and covered by a patent of the
United States "shall hereafter be used by the United
States without license of the owner thereof or lawful
right to use the same, such owner may recover reasonable
compensation for such use by suit in the Court of Claims."
That is to say, it adds to the right to sue ,the United
States in the Court of Claims already conferred when contract relations exist the right to sue even although no element of contract is present. And to render the power
thus conferred efficacious the statute endows any owner of

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the CourL

a patent with the right to establish contradictorily with
the United States the truth of his belief that his rights
have been in whole or in part appropriated by an officer of
the United States, and if he does so establish such appropriation that the United States shall be considered
as having ratified the act of the officer and be treated
as responsible pecuniarily for the consequences. These
results of the statute are the obvious consequences of the
power which it confers upon the patentee to seek redress
in the Court of Claims for any injury which he asserts
may have been inflicted upon him by the unwarranted
use of his patented invention and the natureand character
of the defences which the statute prescribes may be made
by the United States to such an action when brought.
The adoption by the United States of the wrongful act
of an officer is of course an adoption of the act when and as
committed, and causes such act of the officer to be, in
virtue of the statute, a rightful appropriation by the
Government, for which compensation is provided. In
substance, therefore, in this case, in view of the public
nature of the subjects with which the patents in question
are concerned and the undoubted authority of the United
States as to such subjects to exert the power of eminent
domain, the statute, looking at the substance of things,
provides for the appropriation of a license to use the
inventions, the appropriation thus made being sanctioned
by the means of compensation for which the statute
provides.
i.
This being the substantial result of the statute, it
remains only to determine whether its provisions are
adequate to sustain and justify giving effect to its plain
and beneficent purpose to furnish additional protection
to owners of patents when their rights are infringed by
the officers of the Government in the discharge of their
public duties. This inquiry may be solved, under the
conditions here involved, by taking the most exacting
VOL. ccxxiv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

aspect of the well established and indeed elementary
requirements in favor of property rights essential to be
afforded in order to justify the taking by government of
private property for public use.' Indisputably the duty
to make compensation does not inflexibly, in the absence
of constitutional provisions requiring it, exact, first, that
compensation should be made previous to the takingthat is, that the amount should be ascertained and paid
in advance of the appropriation-it being sufficient, having relation to the nature and character of the property
taken, that adequate means be provided for a reasonably
just and prompt ascertainment and payment of the compensation; second, that, again always having reference
to the nature and character of the property taken, its
value and the surrounding circumstances, the duty to
provide for payment of compensation may be adequately
fulfilled by an assumption on the part of government
of the duty to make prompt payment of the ascertained
compensation-that is, by, the pledge, either expressly
or by necessary implication, of the public good faith to
that end.
Coming to apply these principles and confining ourselves
in their application, as we have done in their statement,
strictly to the conditions here before us, that is, the intangible nature--patent rights-of the property taken,
the great possibilities in the essential operations of government that such rights may be invaded by incorporating
them into property of a public charaoter, of the vital
public interest involved in the subject-matter of the
patents in question and the grave detriment to the very
existence of government which might result from interference with the right of the Government to make and use
United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623; Cherokee Nation v. Southern
Kan. Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641; Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380; see Lewis'
Eminent Domain, 3d ed., vol. 2, §§ 675, 679, and Cooley Cons. Lim.,
7th ed., p. 813.

CROZIER v. KRUPP.
224 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

instrumentalities of the character of those with which the
patents in question are concerned, of the purpose which
the statute manifests to add additional protection and
sanction to private rights, and the pledge of the good
faith of the Government which the statute plainly implies
to appropriate for and pay the compensation when ascertained as provided in the statute, we think there is no
room for doubt that the statute makes full and adequate
provision for the exercise of the power of eminent domain
for which considered in its final analysis it was the purpose
of the statuite to provide. Indeed, the desire to confine
ourselves to the particular case before us has led us to
state and limit the doctrine which we here apply, when it
was possibly unnecessary to do so. We say this because
no contention was made in argument by counsel for the
corporation that the statute of 1910 does not provide
methods of compensation adequate to the exercise of the
power of taking for which the statute provides. Thus,
in the argument, it is said: "If the officers of the United
States have since the act . . . used or shall hereafter
use complainant's patented design, it is possible or probable
that complainant may receive reasonable compensation
under the act in the Court of Claims,"-this statement being followed by an insistence that even although this be the
case the statute is not controlling because it was enacted
after the bill was filed and did not therefore retroactively
deprive the court below of the power to afford relief under
the conditions existing when the suit was commenced.
The conclusion of the argument on this subject was thus
stated:
"The general rule is that where jurisdiction in equity
has been established a subsequent statute creating a
remedy at law or removing the obstacle at law upon
which the existence of the equity jurisdiction was originally founded does not oust equity of that jurisdiction
unless the. statute affirmatively discloses the legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

224 U. S.

intent to make the legal remedy exclusive
We
cannot discover in the act of June 25, 1910, any evidence
of an intent to oust equity when its jurisdiction had attached, because there is no expression and the act is not
retroactive."
But this contention is either an afterthought or is
occasioned by overlooking the amendment to the pleadings
operated by the stipulation to which we have hitherto
referred. By. that stipulation every conceivable claim
based on the prior use of infringing devices was withdrawn.
The prayer for a preliminary restraint was waived and
all right to an accounting was likewise withdrawn. As
a result the case was confined solely to obtaining at the
end of the suit a permanent injunction forbidding the
making of, oi causing to be made by the defendant,
guns or gun carriages embodying the inventions owned
by complainant.
Upon the hypothesis that the decree of the court below
remanding the case for further proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion was correct. under the conditions
existing when it was rendered, clearly under the circumstances now existing, that is, the acquiring by the Government under the right of eminent domain, as the result
of the statute of 1910, of a license to use the patented
inventions in question, there could be no possible- right
to award at the end of a trial the permanent injunction
to which the issue in the case was confined. Moreover,
taking a .broader view and supposing that a final decree
granting a permanent injunction had been entered below,
in view of the subject-matter of the controversy and the
right of.the United States to exert the power of eminent
domain as to that subject, at most and in any event the
injunction could rightfully only have been made to operate
until the United States had appropriated the right to use
the patented inventions, and as that event has happened
the injunction, if granted, would no longer have operative
.

UNITED STATES v. ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS. 309
224 U. S.

Syllabus.

force. It follows that the decree of the Court of Appeals.
must be reversed with directions to that court to affirm the
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
dismissing the bill, without prejudice however to the right
of the defendant here, who was the complainant below,
to proceed in the Court of Claims in accordance with the
provisions of the act of 1910.
Reversed and remanded.

THE UNITED STATES v. SOCIfETf ANONYME
DES ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS CAIL.
SOCIT

ANONYME DES ANCIENS ETABLISSEMENTS CAIL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 209, 210.

Argued March 12, 13, 1912.-Decided April 8, 1912.

Ina order to find that there was an implied contract for use of a patent,
there must be use with patentee's assent and agreement to pay
something therefor, United States v. Berdan Fire Arms Company,
156 U. S. 552, and these elements may be collected from conduct
of the parties, even if there are no explicit declarations.
Where the facts show that the patentee consented that the Government use his invention, and the proper officers of the Department
in which it was used have stated that there is a claim for royalties
if the patent is a valid one, the claim is founded on contract and the
Court of Claims has jurisdiction.
The intention to plainly do a wrongful act by deliberately taking the
property of another without compensation will not be imputed to
officers of the United States without the most convincing proof.
The excellence of an ordnance invention is testified to by its use by
the Government in guns for the national defense.
In this case, held that the De Bange gas check for large guns is a device of excellence, that the patents therefor are valid, and the gas
checking device used by the Government is an infringement thereof.
The law secures the patentee against infringement by a use in otherforms and proportions than those specifically described in the claims.

