FEBRUARY, 18l.5

253

Butts against James Bacon and others,'the object of' Dzu -7:
which was to foreclose a mortgage made by Bacen to BACON.
De Butts. The condition of ihe.mortgage was, that if
the defendant, Bacon, should pay to the complainant his pricipal,;
the interest of eight per cent. upon one thousand dol- sold
stock,8Per
cert.
applies
lars of eightper cent. stock ofihe Urn7,d States, loaned She money to
by the complainant to the defendant, and should-further hs bwn- use,
pay to the complainant "the said sum of one thousand--cd befo presay.
dollars," &c. the deed should be void.

ment
sives to
a
mortgage

The defendant, Bacon, pleaded the statute of usury,
alleging that it was a-loan of money and not of stock.

payment ofthe
amount of the
stock ,vth 8
Pei' cent': ilite-

secure the re-

o

-

The facts of the -case appeared to• be, that the ..com. itus
ret iisu
the'on,
"
plainant, Samuel De'Butts, intending-to-speculate 'in a
voyage with Captain Elias De Butts, authorized the latter to sell one thousand. dollars of eightper cent. stodk
6f the United-States, which he did through the agency
of the defendant, Bacon, who received the money. The
plan- of the voyage not having been prosecuted, the
complainant wished to get his stock back again, but
could.not get either the stock -orthe money from Ba.
con. It was however finally agreed, that Bacon should
be considered as answerable. for the stock, and should
give a mortgage to secure the repayment of thd stock,
and-eight per cent. interest.
The court below decided the contract to be usurious,
and decreed the mortgage to be void.

Which -decree,

this court, after argument, by Swann, for the-appellant,

and roungs, for the appellees,

Affirmed.

SHEEHY v. MANDEVILLE AND JAMESSON.

ERROR to the circuit court for the d;strict of Co- A promissory

lumbia, sitting at, Alexandria, in an action.of assu

r

vef

SUPREME COURTI U. S.
brought bySheehy against. Joseph -Mandeville and R.
B. .Jamesson.

SxzzHv
v.
V-ILLE.

-declaration consisted. of thiee counts.

'The
and ini diseharge of an

The -first count was upon a promissory note as fol.
up lows, vizt "James Sheehy complains of Joseph Mandeacdon
the open act vile and Robert Browni Jamesson, lately trading under
ouuto altho' the firm of Rdbert Brown 7amesson', of a plea of tresthe note be not
pass, on the case, for that whereas, on the seventeenth
id.
. sesral suit day 'of July, in the year of our lord one thousaind
aid jtdoment eight hundred and' four, the said defendant Joseph
open account

gainst one

y eih

hnre

n

.
secretly trading with••the defendant Ro,ors,ote bertB.' Jamesson, by way of buying and selling mera chandise, at-Alexandria, in the county aforesaid, under
no -aton
rnto airs
boh t--name, title; style, and firm of Robert Brown James.
ainst
pan the same son;- and whereas the said 'defendants under the said
name, firm and style, on the said seventeenth day. of
ote:
' ajoint note July, in the year one thousand eight hundred and four,
i not merged at, &co 'made their certain note in writing, called a pro.
a judlgment
gainst one of mIssory not, subscribed by them by and under the
iemater on name, style, title and firm of Robert' B. Jamesson,
i- indit. but-bearlng date the same day and year, and then and there
ae other ady dilivered the said note to the plaintiff, and by the said
e :hbeden note did, under their firm aforesaid, promise to pay-to
)in tion if the said plaifitiff, or to his order, six hundred and four
e pleads se- dollars and ninety-one cents, for value received, negotiaerally.,
This court ble at the bank of' Alexandria, by reason whereof, and
hel not
diret
he
court
be- by force of the law in such cases made and provided,
Dw to allow the said defendants became liable to pay to the plaintiff
lie proceed-- the said sum of money contained in the said note, acngb to becodnt
cording to the tenor and effect of the said note; and
aiended,
being so liable, they, the' said defendants, under the
name and firm aforesaid, afterwards, to wit, the same
day antl year'aforesaid, at Alexandria aforesaid, undertook," &c.
.
ers
of a proma- Mandeville,
vo joint

The second count was i.2debitatus assumpsit for
gc'ids sold and delivered to the defendants, under the
name and firm of Robert B. Jamess6n.
The third count was a qzIantum valebant for the same
goods.

PEBRUARY, 1810.

2tg

V.
The defendants W*vere -duly arrested, but Jamessbn siEn.
was discharged by a judge upon entering a common MADappearance, he having been before discharged under VILLE.
the act of congregs' for' the relief of insolvent debtors -0uy-wYO
within the di'strict of Columbia; and no further proc.eedings seem to have been had against him.

The defendant Mandeville appeared and filed two'
pleas.
'1st plea. " And the said defendant, b George
Youngs, his attorney, comes and defends the wrong and
injury, when, &c. prote ting that the said goods, wares
and merchandise, in the declaration mentioned, were
not sold and delivered to the said Robert B. Jamessoii
arid this defendant jointly; for plea saith, that the said
James ought not to have and maintain his action aforesaid against him, because he says, that heretofore, towit, on the seventeenth day of ,July, 1804, at Alexandria, the said Robert B. Jamesson, in the declaration
named, made his promissory note, payable-to the'said
James Sheehy or order, sixty 'days after date, for 04,
dollars and 91 cents, pegotiable at the bank of Alexandria, which said note, so as aforesaid made by the said
Jamesson, was given by the said Jamesson, .to the said
James Sheehy, and by him received, ior and in discharge
of an account or bill of the said James Sheehy against
the said R.'B. Jamesson, for sundry goods, wares and
merchandise, at the special instance andsequest of the
said R. B. Jamesson, sold and delivered by the said
James to the said Robert B. Jamesson. And thie
said defendant Joseph avers, that the said goods, wares
and mnerchatidise, mentigned in the plaintiff's declaration, are the dame goods, wares, and merchandise, so
. as aforesaid sold and deliveired to the said Robert B.
Jamesson by the said James Shee:hy, and thr same for
which the said R, B. Jamesson gave his aforesaid negotiable note, and none other; and afterwards, to wit,
on the 8th day of June, 1805, the said James Sheehy
sued out of'the clerk's office of the circuit court of the
district of Columbia for the county of Alexandria, his
writ in an action of debt upon the aforesaid note against
the said Robert B. Jamesson, and such proceedings

SUPUIME ^1OVR t

U. S.

were had therein, that at the July term of the said
court, in the year 1806, a judgment was rendered in
favour of the said James Sheehy, against the said R. B.
jamiesson, for the debt and damages mentioned in the
declaration filed in that action, to be discharged by the
payment of the said six hundred and four dollars and
ninety-one cents, with inferest from -the 15th of September, 1804, till paid, which will at large appear by
the records, of the said court now here remaining in
the said circuit court of the district of Columbia, for
the county of Alexandria, which judgment still remains
unreversed and infull force; all of which the said defendant is ready to-verify; wherefore he prays judgment whether the said plaintiff his action aforesaid
ought.to have and maintain against him upon the 6econd and third counts in the said declaration," &c.
,2d plea. " And the said'defendant, by leave of the
court,' &c. -"'for further plea saith, that the plaintiff
his attion afoiesaid. against him ought not to have and
maintain, on the jfrqt count in his said declaration, be.
cause he saith, that heretofore, to wit, on -the 8th day
of June, 1805, the said James Sheehy sued out of the.
clerk's office of the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for the county of Alexandria, his writ 'in an
action of -debt-agia inst the said Robert B. Jamesson,
apd afterwards, in 'July, filed his d*claration -therein
.upon a note of th -siid Robert B. Jamesson to the
said James Sheehy, dated the 17th day of July, 1804,
payable sixty daN s after date,- for 604 dollars and 91
cents,- for value received,. negotiable at the bank of
Alexandria' and "afterwards such proceedings were
had in the said-suit, that at July term, of the said court
in the year 1806, judgment was rendered therein in
.-favour of the said James Sheehy against the said Robert
B. Jamesson,-for the'debt and damages in lie said
declthration mentioned to be discharged by the payment
of'604 dollars and 91 cents, with interest from the 15th
of September, 1804,-until paid, and also costs of suit;
all which -the said defendant is ready to verify by the
record and proceedings- of the said court," &c."which
said judgment still' remains unreversed and in full
'force, also to be-verified by the record, &c. And the

PEERUARY 11o.taidctefeiidant avers that-the promissoiy . ote'in,'the
first count in the plaintiff's declaration mentioned anI
described, is the same note upon which the aforesaid

judgment was rendered and obtained, against the said
RobertB. Jamesson; as aforesaid, and -not other or
different, and ihis the said defendant is*ready to verify;"
whereupon the defendant prays judgment if the said
plaintiff ought to have and maintain his action aforesaid against him upon theflrst count'in die said-decl*ration," &L.
-T the first plea the plaintiff demurred, and assigned
as .causes of demurrer,
. That the plea'does not traverse the assumpsit
hid in th6 declaration.
2. It does not expressly, contegs or deny, that the
goods were sold and.-delivered -to the said 'Joseph
Mandeville -d. Robert B-Jamesson; -nof that tho
note in the e'eclaration .mentioned, was given by the
said house ai i fi-m of Robert B. Jamesson.
-

3. An unsatisfied -judgment against Robert- B.
Jamesson is no bar to an action upon the same cause
of 'action against the other defendant, against whom
no judgment has been rendered.
4. It does not aver that the judgment against f'ames..
spn has been satisfied.
d. It does not defiy).or .admit, !iat the. defendan,'
-M~andeville, assumed to pay for the goods.
6. the plea is no answer to the d&claration.
• To the second plea the plaintiff also demurred, and"
assigned the same causes of deinurrer. J
The judgment-of the'court -below,- upon these demurrers, was in favour of thi defendat -Mandeville;,
and the plaintiff brought his'writ of- error. :
Vol. VT:.

K

-"

sH*Hx
.
vILE,

*

2$&.

SUPREME .COURKT U. S.

E,... Lee, for the plaintiff in error.
A debt due from joint partners is Joint and-teeraL
Each is liable for the whole. -Rice v. Shute, 5 Burr.
2613. W~atson'. Law of Partnership,238. 3 N. Z.
Term Rep. 5. '14 Vin. Abr, 607. p. 3. 6 Co. 0 b.
.. kwnaay's cast. 6 Co. 46. a. Higgins's case. -Telv,
67. 2 At& 5to. Darwent v. Walton. 3 N. 2. Term
Rep. 4. 5 East, i47. Cro. Yac. 74. A judgment
against,one partner alone does not bind the other.- It
is therefore no bar to a suit against this other partner.
The obligation of the note of Mafideville & Jamessoll
is not merged in the judgment against Jamesson.
Mandeville cannot say he has been twice vexed for the
same cause of action.
A secret phrtner is liable when disco, ered. Watson,
!2. Doug. 371. If the creditor has. obtained judgment against the open partner before the discovery of
the secret Vartner, the latter may be sued upon the originl cause of action. As to him it is not merged in
the judgment. An. unsatisied execution is no bar to a
second remedy against another person liable for the
Cro. )ac. 73. 1 Xq d.
same debt. 5 CS.86. b.
207.

A promissory note, given for goods, is no bar to an
action for the price o f the goods founded on the sale.
In the present case it is not pleaded as an accord and
satisfaction, and it is in ihat form only'that the defendant can avail himself of it. It is not satisfaction unless it be p.iid, 1 Esp. 148. 9 Co. 79. b. 1 Selw.
107.- 1 Str. 426. 1 Burr.,9. 2 Term Rep. 24. 1
Selw. 108, 109.

Although the plea states that the note was receives
in dischargeof the account for goods sold, yet it was
not a discharge without payment. Cro. Car. 85, 86.
Brainthwait v. Cornwallis. 6 Co. 44. b. 45. b. Cro.
Eiz. 240. Ashhrooh v. oSnape. 3 East, 250. Drake v.
kldtchel. 3 Call, 234. Al Guire v. Gadsby. 1 Cranch, 181. 1 Esp. Rep. 3. 5. Stednan v, Gooch. 6 Term
Reb. 52. Puckford v. Mlaxwell.

FEBRUARY, 181 o.

259

The, judgment. (against Jamesson) upon the note is sizay
.of action M'
no discharge of Mandeville. 'The cause
VILLR.
ju!dgment;
againt Jamesson only-is, merged in the
hat *the joint cause of action against Mandeville & ,am .,gm
Jcmesson. The reason why the cause of action merges
in the judgment is, thai the party has obtain-d a
But a
remedy of a higher nature against his-debtor,
judgment against .Jamesson' gives no remedy 'against
Mandeville. - The plaintiff could not.lose 'his remtdy
upon the note against Mandeville until he.had obzained
another remedy of a higher nature against him. This
he has not obtained, and, therefore, has uot lost his
remedy upon the note.
In the.former action the declaration does not state it
to be a joint note. If it had, there might perhaps be
some doubt. But it was sued a4 the separate note of
Jamesson. If the note had been in terms joint and
several, a judgment against one wbuld- not have been a
bar to a subsequent action upon the note igainst the
other. '

roungs and C. Lee, contra.
The contracts made by copartners 'are joint, and
not several. It is true that the effect of a- judgment
is several, that is, the execution may be served on both,
or either of the defendants; but that does not alter-the
nature of the contract.
In joint contracts, both are bound, or neither is
bound. If one be -ischarged, the other is dis'charged;
a release to one is a release to both. If ilhe. contract
be destroyed, or vacated, as to one, it is as to the
other also. When it has once passed into a judgment
it is extinct; a plaintiff may.if-he pleases sue only'one
of the copartners, add if the'defen4ont does not plead
in abatement, the action may be maintained; and if
the plaintiff obtains a jidgment against one he cannot
have another action upon thq same original cause of
action against the other. This would.enable the plain.
tiff to split and multiply actions at his pleasure. Upon
a joint cause of action you-cannot have several judg-

.960
fttfzzy
MANDEVILLE.

SUPREME COURT U. S

mpnts as you can in trespass, alfhough the defendants.
should plead severally,
Ifa note be given for a precedent debt, you cannot
have an action on the original cause of action, unless
you can prove the note to be iort. 1 Johns. 36. 4
.Esp.Rep. 159.

1 Com. Dig.. 143, 144. , 4 Bac. Abr.

48, 49. 2 Salk. 609.

2 Atk. 510. 609.

But the plea states that the note was given and received in discharge of the prior debt; and there can;
be no doubt that, by agreement of the parties, a dbt
may be discharged in that way.
The declaration does not state any reason for not
having mitade Mandeville a defendant to the first suit.
It ought at least to have stated that the plaintiff did
not know that Mandeville was a partner at the time
ot, obtaining the judgment against Jamesson. If the
plaintiff has any remedy, it must be in equity. If
there-can be a remedy at lIw, it must be upon a very
special action on the case, setting korth all the circumnstances.

If the plaintiff had at first an option to sue for goods
sold abd delivered, or upon the note, he has made his
election to sue on the note, and having prosecuted that
suit to 'judgment,, he, cannot afterwards sue for the
goods sold and ddivr'-r-d. 'A man cannot have two
judgments for the same cause of action. Xf the note
"did'not destroy the right of action for goodssold, yet
a jodgment upon that note does.
A written instrument cannot be contradicted by parol
evidence. The note purports to be.the separate note
of Jamesson. To show that it was. a joint note is
to contrdlict the tenor of the instrument.
If the defendants in a joint action of assumpsit
sever in their pleas, this dbes not make it a separate
action against each: and if the plaintiff does not show
a joint cause of action against both, he cannot recover
"Tniere could be no doubt that itwould
aainst di'ttier,

.
FEBRUARY, l8i-o1

.61.

be a good plea for Jamesson to say that the plain-- SH z.Ec
tiff had alreadi recovered a,judgment against .him M VILLE.
upon the same cause of action,' which judgment'.was
Still in force. And a plea that would discharge Jamesson would discharge Mandeville also, because the pl~ina"
tiff having declared upon a 'joint cause of action
must prove it aslaid; and if he had no cause of action
against Jamesson, as wellas against Mandeville, he had
no joint cause of action as laid in his declaration.
Jones, in reply.
A judgment against one severally, upon a joint
cause of action is no bar to a subsequent action atainst;
the others, upon the same cause of action.
A note given by one, for t precedent debt due by
two, is nudum pactum."
.n Uote cannot be a satisfactionof a precedent debt
unlesspayment be actually made of the note. 2 Cro. 152.
5 (o.119. Welpdale's case.: 14 Vin. 607. 6 Co. 40. b.
'Cro.- 7ac. 74. 12 Mod. 538. 5- Mfod. 136. Cro.
Car. 85, 86. 1 Esp. Rep. 3. 5. 3 -East, 256.
Judgment may be severed when the parties pleaA1
severally. Co. Litt. 127. b. Lutw. 9.. 5 Com.-Dig.8.
tit. Reader; B. 9, 10, .1Co. 5; Rayder's case. I Wils.
89. 1 Burr. 357,
Jamesson is no-party to this silt. Although arrested,
he has never appeared, and the 'suit as against him has
bbeen agbandofied. The coare can givejudgment againstMandeville only.
The plea amounts to the general issue, and therefore
is bad upon demurrer, Cro. Eliz. 2016 § Mod. 314.
March 14.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered" the opinion .of the
court ,as folows, viz-

T he plaiitiff sold certain goods-to Robert B. James.

26R
Sn
M"
AD.

VrLLE.

SUPREME COURT U.S

son, q merchant of Alexandria, and took his 'note for

the amount, which he put in suit, and prosecuted to a

judgment. Afterwards, supposing the other defendant
Mandeville to be a secret partner, he instituted a suit

against Mandeville. and Jamesson. The declaration
'he, first is on the note, and
contains three count*s.
charges it to have been made by the defendants unde-r
the name, firm and style of Robert B. Jamesson. The
2d and ;3d ounts are for goods, wares and merchandise
sold and delivered to the defendants, trading under the
firm of Robert B. Jamesson.
The dpfendant Mandeville pleads two pleas in bar.
The' first goes to, the whole declaration, and'the second
applies only to the first count.
The first commences, -with a protestation that the
goods, &c. in the declaration mentioned were not sold
to the defendants jointly, and. then pleads in bar the
promissory note which is averred to have been given
and received for, and in discharge of, an account for sundry goods, wares and merchandise. sold and delivered
to the said. Jamesson, and that the goods in the declaration mentioned are the same which were sold and; delivered tb the said Jamess'on, and for which -the said
note was given. The plea also avers, that a suit was
,instituted and judgment obtained on the note, and con,
eludes in bar.
The second plea pleads the judgment -in bar of the
action.,
To the first plea the plaintiff demurs specially, and
assigns for cause-of demurrer,
1. That the defendant does not traverse the assumpsit laid in .the declaration.
2. That he does not expressly confess or deny that
the goods, &c. were sold and delivered to the defendants, trading under the~firm of R. B. 'jaresson, or that
the note was given by the said firm.
5

FEBRUARY; 1810..

0o.3

3. Because an unsatiqfied judgment against James-" SaEEHY-

son is no bar to an action against Mandeville.

MAV.

VILLF.

4. It is not averred that the judgment has been kN-Ov

satisfied.
5. the defendant 'does not deny or 4demit that he
assumed to pay-for the goods, &c. in the declaration
fihentioned.
6. Because. the plea'is no answer to the declaration,
or any count thereof, and ii informal.
The defendantjoihis in demurrer.
To the second plea the plaintiff also demurs specially, and assigns, for cause of demurrer, the same, in.
substance, w~ic.h had been assigned to the first plea,
and the defendasIt joins in the demurrer to this plea
likewise.
The other defendant, Jamesson, has put in no plea,
nor are there-any proceedings: against him subsequent
to the declaration.
Although the first plea is not expressly limited to
the 2d and 3d counts, yet it would, seem, from its
terms, to be intended to apply to them alone. It sets
up a bar to an action on an assuqzpsit for goods, wares,,
and merchandise sold and delivered, and no such gsaurnpsit is laid ih the first count.
If,-however, it be considered a pleaded to the first
Yount, it is clearly ill on demurrer, For it does not
deny or avoid the joint assurmipsitlaid in that: couht.
It remains to inquire whether- this piea contain's,a
sufficient bar to the Ld and 3d counts.
The plea. is, that the note was given and received for,
and .in dischargeof, an account or bill for gnods, wares
and merchandise sold and delivered by the plaintiff to
Robert B. Jnamesson, which are ihe same goods, &c.
that arq mentioned in the .plaintiff 's declaration.

"'-

26A

~ruaity,
MAN"VI.LE.

x

'SUPREME COURT U. G.

"Thita note, without a special c ontract, wculd r q .

of itself, discharge the, original cause of action, is not
denied. But it is insisted that if, by 'xpress agree-

ment, the note is received as payinent, it satisfies the
original contract, and the party receiving it must -take
his remedy on it.
This principle appears to be well settled. The note
"ofone of the parties or of a third person may, by agree.
ment, be received in payment. The doctrine of nudum 'pactum does not apply -to such a case ; for a man
may, if such be bis will, discharge his debtor without
aiv consideration. But, if it 'did apply, there may be
inducementg to take a note from one partner liquidating
and evidencing a claim on a firm which might be a suf-,
ficient consideration for discharging the firm. Since,
then, the plaintiff has 'not taken issue on the averment
that the. note was given and received in discharge of
the.account; but has demurred tq the plea, that fact is
admitted ; and, being admitted, it bars the action for
the goods.
The special causes of demurrer which are assigned
do not, in any manner, affect the case. Whether the
promise was made by Mandeville, or not, ceases%to be
material, if a note has been received in discharge of
that promise, and the payment of the note need not be
averred, since its non-payment cannot revive the extinguished assunpsit.
flie next subject of consideration is the second plea,
which applies simply to the first count.
That count is on a note charged to have been made
by Mandeville and Jamesson, trading under the firm
of Robert B. Jamesson. This, not being denied, must
be taken as true.
The plea is, that a judgment was rendered on thia
note against Robert B. Jamesson.-

IEBRUARY, 1810.

265-

Were it admitted that this judgment bars an action
against Robert B. Jamesson, the inquiry still remainss,
if Mandeville was originally bodnd; if a suit could
be originally maintained against him; is the note, as
to him, also- merged in thle judgment,
which judgment was obtained
Had the action, in,
against Jamesson; been brought against th- firm, the.
whole note would most probably have merged in that.
judgnent. But that action was not brought against.
the firin. It was. brought against Robert'.Brown"
Jamesson singly, and whatever other objectiois may
be made to any subsequent proceedings on the same
note; it cannot be correctly said that it is -carried into
judgment. as respects Mandeville. "If it were, the
judgment ought in some manner to- bind 'him, which.
most certainly it does not. - [he doctrine of merger
(even admittiirg that a judgment against one of severaljoint obligors would terminate the whole obligation,
so thar a distinct action could not afterwards be maintained against the. others, which is not admitted) can
be.applied only to a case in which the original declaration was on a joint covenant' not to a case in which
the declaration in the first suit was on a sole contract.
In point of realjustice there can be no reason why,
an unsatisfied judgment against Jamesson should bar
a claim fpon Mandeville; and it appears to the court-.
that this claim is xot barred by any technical rule of
law, since the proceedings in the first a~tion were instituted upon the assumpsit of Jamesson individually,
It is not necessary to decide whethe; .s action
-could have been maintained against Mandeville singly
with an averment that the note was made by Mandeville and Jamesson. - The declaration being ,against
both partners, that question'does not arise. The
d6caration is clearly good in itself, and the plaintiff
may recover under it,-unless he be barred by a"suf-

icient plea.
Admitting, for
Vol.

I..

-,the

present, that a previous: judg-,.
-, I

SnHzITIV
1A DVILLE.

266
Siauv
V
DFVILLE-

MAN

~

SUPREME'COURT U. S.

ment ainst Jhmesson would be a sufficient, bar, as
to him, had Jjmesson and Mandeville joined in-the

same plea, it would have presented an inquiry of some
intricacy, how far the benefit of that bar could be extended to Mandeville.
J hey
But they have not joined in the same plea.
have severed ; and as the whole note is not merged
in a judgment ohtained against Jamesson, on his in.
dividual assumpsit, the court is not of opinion that
M¢iandeville has sQ pleaded this matter as to bar the

action.
In this plea it was necessary to negative the aver.
ment of the declaration, that the note was made by
Mandeville as well as Jamesson, or to show that the
judgment was satisfied. The defendant.has not done
so. He has only stated affirmatively new mattei in
bar of the action, 'which neW matter, as'stated, does
not furnish a aufficient bar. It is not certain that this
plea would have been good on a general demunbut on a special demurrer it is clearly ill.
The judgment, theretore', is to be reversed, and$ as
no other plea is pleaded; judgment must be rendered.,
on the first count, in favour'of the plaintiff.
The judgment of the court was as follows: This
cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record; and 'was argudd by counsel; on consideration
the
whereof the court is of opinion, that there is error in,
judgment of the circuit court in overruling the demprrer to the first plea, so far as the same is pleaded in
bar of the first count in the declaration, and that there
is' error in overruling the demurrer to the second
plea; wherefotg it is considered by this court, that the
judgment of the circuit court be reversed and annulled and that .the cause be remanded to the circuit
court, with directions to sustain the demurrer, to the,
first ple'a so far 'as the same is pleaded in bar of the
first count, in the plaintiff's declaration, and also to
sustain the demurrer to. the second plea, and to render

,FEBRUARY, 1810.

'-67

judgmemt in favour of the plaintiff on nis said first
count, and to award a writ of inquiry of.damages.*

8HEEy
MA DE.
VI LLS.

After the opinion was gven, C. Zee moved for a direction to the
court below to allow a plea ofnozn-assumpsis. The court said they had
never given directions respecting amendments, but had left that question to' the court below This court cannot now undertLke to say
whether the court belbw would bejustified in granting leave to amend.,

SKILLERN'S EXECUTORS -v.
MAY'S
EXECUTORS.

'THIS was a case certified from the circuit court It
is 'tooht
for the district of Kentucky, the judges, of that court to question the

being divided in opinion.

jurisdiction of
the
circuit
court after the
cause
sent has
backbeen
by

The former decree of the court below had- been
reversed in this court, and the cause " remanded for mandatek
further proceedings to ,behad therein, in order that an
equal and just partition of the .!,500 acres of land,
mentioned in the assignment of the 6tt of March,
1785, be made between the legal representatives of
the said George Skillern and the said John May."'
(Vide ante,v ol. 4. p. 141.)
The cause being before the court below uponr the
vnandate, the question occurred which is stated in the
following certificate, viz. "' In this case ,afinal decrec had been pronbunced, and by writ of error removed to the supreme cotirt, who reversed the decree,
and after the cause was sent back to this court it was
discovered to be a cause not.within the-jurisdiction of
the court; but a qtuestion arose whether it cbn now
be dismi'sstd for want of jurisdiction, after'the supreme cqurt had acted thereon. The opinion of the.
judges of this courq being opposed on -this question, it
is ordered "that the same be adjourned to the supreme
court for their decision," &c.
This. court,after consideration, directed the following
opinion to be certified to the court below, viz.

