SUPREME COURT U. S.
states fiom local prejudlcs. Yet all who" could haaffected by them are, by this construction, excluded
from those courts. There could ,scarcely ever be a
•civil action between individuils of which the court could
--take cognisance, and if such a case should arise, it would
-be'one in which no prejudice is to be apprehended.

V.Z
V*i.XToT.

* It is the. unanimous .opinion of the court that, by a
fair construction of the act, the citizens of the territory
of Orleans may sue and he sued in that court in the
sanie cass *inwhich a citiien of Kentucky my sue
-and be sued in the court of Kentucky.
Judgment affirmed with costs&

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY, v
RUDEN'S ADMINISTRATOR.

What isrea. ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Blarydn
tdinfs rn
for aban6".-Jand inan ation of'covenant upon a policy of insurance
raentisa ques- upon the cargo of the brig Sally at and from Surinam.
sonable

tion for theju.

ry to decide to New-York.
under- the di-

of a

rection
court.

The operation
of a concealnent, on the

There was no warranty as to the, character of the
propertyo

policy,

deUpon the trial below the plaintiffs in error took three
pends on its bills of exception; and the verdict 'and judgment bemateriality to
the rik; and ing against them, they brought their, writ of error.
this materiality
is asribjcct for.Th

the considera- The cause was argued by Winder and All-rrin, for the
tion of ajury.
pa n iff
in error,and by Harper,f6r the defendant.
of lading
A bill
statingthe property to belong to A
and .B.
is not

The case being fully stated by the Chief Justice in
delivering the ,opinion of the court, it is deemed unneconclusive eelcessary to report the arguments of counsel.'
dunce, and does
not estop J.
from

the

arch 17.

showing

property

athero.

to

AARSHAIL, Ch.
as follows:

J. delivered the opinion of the cotrt

VEBRUA-IY, 1.810.

SS9

This case depends on. the correctness .of tht circuit Aft. l ..Cot

-spurt in giving some opinions,. and redasing others, to
which.exceptions have been taken.
It appears that, on. the 22d.of Qctoher, the~assutel
received notice of the capture of thev*ssel insured, and
that, on the 25th, he. wrote a ietter abandoniig to the
underwriters, whichlettfr was received in course.of
the mail, and, inlme4iately acted upon. Some reasons
were assigned, by .the plaintiff below, for not having.
abandoned more immediately Aifter receiving notice of
the capture, aind the. defendant beWow moved .the court.
to instruct the ury that the assured did not elect to
abandon in reasoutble time. To the refu.al of the
court to give this instruction the first exceptioh is taken.
It has been repeatedi. declared by this court that
what. is reason'able time for abandonment is a-questiou
compounded of fact and law, of which the jury must
judge under the direction of a court. ".It does not ap.
pear that the court below erred in refusing, in this case,
to give the instruction requircd.
The insured was. a subject of a belligerent.power, but
had resided four years in theUnited States. His letter,;
representing the risk, was laid beforethejury, and a good
deal of testimony was taken to prove that a belligerent not
named in the teprpsentation w asinterested in the cargo.,
Some counter testimony was also introduced by the
assured. Whereupon the counsel for the underwri.
ters moved the court to instruct the jury that, if they
believe the facts stated by him, there was such a concealment as, in contemplation of law, vitiated the poli.
cy. This direction the court refused to give,-but did
direct the jury that, if they should'be of opinion that any
circumstances were stated by Ruden, or his. agent, or
that any circumstances were suppressed by either of.
them, which, in the opinion'of the jury, wogld i~crease,
the risk, then the plaintiff cannot recover.
To this opinion an exception was taken.
It id well settled that the operation of any conceal.
ment on the policy depends on its materiality to the

RU"EN'
Au'D,7usTiRATOR.

340
SfAn. V.
YU.

SUPREMECOURT U. S.

Co. risk, and this court has decided that this materiality is

XUDZN'S,

ADmrxZi-

a subject for the consideration of ajury. Consequently,
the court below did right in leaviqg it to the in

TRA tOa.,

The counsel for the underwriters then gave sme
very strong evidence to prove-that the property insured
was not the sole property of the assured, bat was property in which another pefson held a joint interest.
Some counter testimony was adduced; on which the
defendant below moved the court to direct thejury to
find that the property was not' the sole property of
Ruden, but the joint property of Ruden and another.
This direction also the court refused to give, and
did direct the jury that-it was their peculiar pirovince
to determine th-e fact whether Ruden was the sole
ownerof the property, or not; and to this opinion 'an exception was taken.
It is contended by the plaintiffs in error that the
testimony offered by them, among which was the bill'
of lading stating the property to belong to Ruden and
another, was such'as absolutely to conclude him, and
estop him from denying that-another was concerned in
the cargo.
The court is not of this opinion. The covering of
property doesnot conclude the person interested, so as to
estop him from. proving the truth of-the case. There
is the less reason for that effectbeing given to these papers in ibis case, because the letter to the underwriters
indicated that the cargo might be shipped in the name
of other persons.
If the- insured was not absolutely estopped, the court
did not-err -in permitting the jury to weigh his testiiony. They had a right to weigh it, and to decide to
whom the property belonged. If their, verdict was
against evidence, the only remedy was a new trial to be
granted bv the court in which the verdict was found.
There is no error, and the judgment is to be qfrncd with ca.ots°

