F-BRUARY, 18io.
FLnTCEf5a

v.

FLETCHER -v. PECK.

EcK.

the breach.
asERROR to the circuit court for the district ofOIofIfcovenant
Iassachusetts, in an action of cbvenant brought by signed be, that
te n state had
no authority to
Flecher against Peck.
sell

and dis.

the
pose itof.is not
The first count
• . of
. the declaration states that Peck, land,
by his deed of bargain and sale dated the 14th of May, a good plea in
1803,-in consideration of 3,000 dollars, sold and con- bar to say that
overner
veyed to Fletcher, 15,000 acres of land lying in corn- the
was legally eramon and undivided in a tract describedasfolows:begin- powered toselt
and convey the
ning'on the river Mississippi,wherethe latitude 32 deg.
.
prenises, at40 mm. northof the equatorintersects the same, running thougbhefacts
thence along the same parallel of latitude a. due east stated in the

course to the Tombigby river, thence up the said pea
meuot sinducare sufTombigby river to where the latitude of 32 deg. 43 ficient to justine? a direct
min. 52 sec. intersects the svme, thence along the same gative
of th6
parallel of latitude a due west course to the Mis- breach assign-,

sissippi; thence down the said river, to the place of ed.It 55 Dotnbeginning; the said described tract containing 500,000 cessary that a
of cobreach be
acres, and is the same which was conveyed by Na- venant
athaniel, Prime to Oliver Phelps, by deed dated the signed in the

27th of February, 1796, and-of which the said Phelps very words of
conveyed four 01fifths to Benjamin Hichborn, and the Ittheis covenant.
sufficient
said Peck by deed dated the 8th of December, if it show a
substantia
part
being
acres,
breach.
1800; the said tract of 500,000
of a tract whicl James Gre'-nleaf conveyed to The court
the said N. Prime, by deed dated the 23d of Sep- willnottdeclire
tember, 1795, and is' parcel of that 'tract which James coostitutioua;t,
Gunn, Mathew M'Allister, George Walker, Zacha- unless the opriah Cox, Jacob Walburger, William Longstreet and teen
positionthe conheWade Hampton, by deed dated 22d of August, 1795, stitution and
la be
conveyed to the said James Greenleaf; the- same teraclaadplain.
being part of that tract

which was granted by

The legisla.

tutre
letters patent under the great seal of the stateE of gia,

of Geor1795,
in

Georgia, and the signature of George Matthews, Esq. had the power
governor of that state, dated the 13th of January, 1795, of disposing of
name the unapproto the said James Gunn and others, under the name priated lands
of Jamas Gunn, Mathew AT'Allister,
and George
within its owa
. "-limim,
•

$8
FLIaSaHit

V.

SUPREME COURT V. S.

Walker and their associates, and their heirs and assigns in fee-simple, under the name of the Georgia
SCV_
company; which patent was issued by virtue of an

7a contest act of the legislature of Georgia, passed the 7th of
,etwe.en two January, 1795, entitled ",An act supplementary to
adividnals,
lairaing ,er

an act for appropriating part of the unlocated terri-

n a.t fale.
tory of this state for the payment of' the late state

troops, and for other purposes therein, mentioned,- and
into declaring the right of this state to the unappropriated
inquire
he motives territory thereof, for the protection and support of the
- vhieh aetua- frontiers of this state, and for other
purposes."
ied. the nmemislatu'e, the
iourt cannot

I ers

5egi

of

fIhelegislatu

Ilight

that

- reIt g That
Peck, •X
in his deed to Fletcher, covenantets
•

consti-

"

that the state qf, Georgia aforesaid was, at the time

Iutonally pass of the passing of the act of the legislature thereof,
act;
an

I"Ch.the act be (entitled as aforesaid,) legally selsed in fee of the
lothed
,ith soil thereof, subject only to the extinguishment of
11 the reqniite"forrs

ofs part of the Indian title thereon.

And that the le-

law, a court, gislature of the said state at the time of passing the

fitting
as. a act of sale aforesaid; had good right to sell and dis:ourltof law, "
nnot sustain pose of the same in manner pointed out by the said
-,suit between act. And that the governor of the said state had law.individuals
1bunded
on ful authority to 'ssue his grant aforesaid, by virtue of
41hat
he the
allegation
act is the said act. And further, that all the title which the
anullity insaid state of Georgia ever had in the aforegranted
premises has been legally convieyed to the said
I,onsequeaceof
he
mr re'•
ho es
ic"Peck by force of the conveyances aforesaid.

John
AniA

title to the premises so conveyed by
the state of Georgia, and finally vested in the said Peck'
has been in no way constitutionally or legally impair-

inflenced ce- further, that the
lain members
If the legisla.ure
which

passed thelaw. ed by virtue of any subsequent act of any subsequent
enna
a
legislature of'the said state of Georgia."

3
contracts
whenA
absolute
:ightshave
yes.

The biecii assigned in the first count was, that
led under that at the time the said act of 7th of January, 1795, was
contrat,
t re- passed, " the said legislature had no authorityto' sell
peal oft rie law"
. ..
°
+
oannOt de yest and dispose of the tenements aforesaid, or of any pArt
those right!,
thereof, in the manner pointed out in the said act."
A party to a
contract cannot
pronounce
itsr '
own deed in-

'The 2d count, ..
after stating the c6venanU in' the deed
.
valid, althoug as stated in the first count, averredi that at A-igusta,
that party e a,in the said state of Georgia, on the 7th day of Januasovereign state r, 1 95, the said James Gunn, Mathew M'Allister

FEBRUARY, 18

-0.

89

and George Walker, promised and -assured divers

FL&TCffZ

said state, that if the said members would assent to

A['raan

y.'

members of the legislature of the said state the f
duly and legally sitting in' general assembly of the

-

-

is a

and vote for the passing of the act of the said generaI contract. exe,.
assembly, entitled as aforesaid, the same then. being uA
before the said general assembly in the form of a bill. nulling con-

and if the said bill should pass into a law, that such ueya, fei, ts

it is
because
impa.ah
memberi should have a share of, and be interested in, a],alaw
all the lands, w'hich theoy the said Gunn, M'Allister and j," the ohligdWalker, and their associates, should purchase of the tihn of coi!.
'withirleT
the meaning
said state by virtue of and under authority of the tI'Scts,
constifu.
the
to
same law: and that divers of the said members

thb"
tion ofStattei:
Wihom the said promise and assurance was so made United
as aforesaid, were unduly influenced theieby, and un- The proof.
clanation
King of.
der such influence did then and there vote for the pass- the'

ing the said bill into a law; by reason w;hereof the Great Britain"
did
alter the
not 1763
said lair was a nullity,- and from the time of passing in

the same as aforesaid was, ever since has been, and boundaries "ot,
now is, absolutely void and of no effect whatever ;, and Georgia.
that the title which the said state of Georgia had in The nature
the aforegranted premises at any time whatever'?vas titid is not
as to bjnever legally conveyed to. the said Peck, byforce of the such
abiolutely re.
gnant ifL
conbeyances aforesaid."
seisfir& in fee
....

,On

the"*partof

The third count, atter repeating all the averments and tile state.
fecitals contained in the second, further averred, that
after the passing of the said act,. and of the execution
of the patent "aforesaid, the general asscmblv of the
state of Georgia, being a legislature of that state subsequent to that which passed the said act, at a session
thereof, duly and legally holden at Augusta, in the
said state, did,.onf the 13th of February, 1796, because
of the undue influence used as aforesaid, in procuring
the said act to be passed, and for other causes, pass
another certain act in the words following, that is 'to'
say, 6 An act declaring null and vold a certain usurped
act passed by the last legislature of this state at Augusta, the 7th day of January, 1795, utder the pretended title of.' An act supplementary to 'an.'ace
entitled an-'act for appropriating.a part of the unloca.
j ..
Val. VJ'"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FL.E'r'CIR ted ter~itoxy of the state for the payment of the late"

V.
c

state troops, and for other purposes therein mentioned, declaring the right of this state to the unappropriated'territory thereof for the protection of the frontiers,
and for other purposes' and 'for expunging from the
public records the said usurped act, and declaring the
right of this state to all lands lying within the boundaries therein mentioned."

By which, after a long preamble, it is enacted,
That the said usurped act passed on the 7th of January, 1795, entitled, &c. be, and the same ishereby declared, null and void, and the grant or grants right or
rights, claim or claims, issued, deduced, or derived
therefrom, or from any clause, letter or spirit of the
same, or any part of the same, is hereby also anulled,
rendered void, and of no effect; and as the same was
made without constitutional authority, and fraudulently
obtained,, it is hereby declared of no binding force or
effect on this state, or the people thereof, but is and
are to be considered, both law and grant,as they ought
to be, ipsofacto, of themselves, void, and the territory
therein 'mentioned is also hereby declared to be the
sole property of, the state, subject only to the right
of treaty of the United States to enable the state to
purchase under its pre-emption rignt, the Indian
-tide to the same."
'The 2d section directs the enrolled law, the grant,
and all deeds, contracts, &6. relative to the purchase, to
be expunged from the records of the state, &c.
The 3d section declares that neither the law nor the
grant, nor any other conveyance, or agreement relative
theieto, shall be received in evidence in any court of
law or equity in the state so far as to establish a right
to the territory or ainy part thereof, but. they may be
received in 'evidence'in private. actio's'between individuals for tile recovery of money paid upon pretended
sales; &c.
The 4th section. provides for the-repayment of'
money, furnden stock, &c. which may have been paid
into the treasury, provtded it %as then remaining

FEBRUARY, 1830.

91

therein, and provided the repayment should ne demanded within eight months from that.time.
The 5th section prohibits anq application to congress, or the general government of the United States
for the extinguishment of the Indian claim; and
The 6th section provides for the promulgation of
the act.
The count then assigns a breach of the covenant in
the following words, viz. " And by reason of the
passing of the said last-mentioned act, and by virtue
thereof, the title which the said Peck had, as aforesaid,
in and to the tenements aforesaid, and in and t'o any
part thereof, was constitutionally and legally impaired,
and rendered null and void."
The 4th count, after reciting the covenants as in
the first, assigned as a breach, - that at the time of
passing of the act of the 7th of January, 1795, the
United States of America were seised in fee-simple
of all the tenements aforesaid, and of all the soil
thereof, and that at that time the State of Georgia was
not seised in fee-simple of the tenements aforesaid, or
of any part thereof, nor of any part of the soil thereof, subject only to the extinguishmfent of part of the
Indian title thereon."
The defendant pleaded four pleas, viz.
1st plea. As to the breach assigned in the first
cout, he says,
That-on the 6th of May, 1789, at Augu~ta, in the
State of Georgia, the people of'that state by their
delegates, duly authorized and empowered to form,
declare, ratify, and confirm a constitution for the government of the said state, did form, .declare, ratify,
and conlrm such constitution, in the words following,
Here was inserted the whole constitution, the 16t
section of which declares, that the general assembly
hall have power to make all laws- and ordinances

FLETCHER

v.

SUPREME COUJRT U. S.
FLETCUEa

V..

Pc

vwhich they .shall deem necessary and proper fox, the
good of the stite which shall not be repugnant to this
constitution. The plea then avers, that until and at
the ratification and confirmation aforesaid of'the said
constitution, ihe peopleof the said state were seised,
among other lalfge parcels of land,.and tracts of couutry,'Qf all the tenements described by the said Fletcher
'in his said first count, and of the soil thereof in absolute sovereignty, and in fee-simple; (subject only to
the extinguishment of the Indiali title to part thereon ;)
and thatfipon the confirmation and ratification of the
said constitution, and by force thereof,, the said State
of Oeorgia became selsed in absolute sovereignty, and
in fce-simple," of all the tenements aforesaid, with the
soil thereof, subject asaforesaid; the same being within the territory and jurisdiction of the said state, and
the same state continued so seised int fee-simple, until
the said tenencnts and soil were cQnveyed by letters
-patent under the greatieal of the said state, and under
the signature of George Matthews, Esq. governor
thereof, -in the, manner and form mentioned by the
said Fletcher in his said first count. And the said
Peck further saith, that on the 7th of January,. 1795,
at a session of the general assembly of the said state
duly holden at Augusta within the bame, according to.
the provisions of the said constitution, the said general assembly, then and there possessing all the powers
vested in the legislature of the said state by virtue of
the said constitution, passed the act above mentioned
bv the said Fletcher in the assignment of the breach
hiordsaid, which act.is in the words following, that is to
say,- 1 An act supplementary," &c.
Here was -ecited the whole act, which, after a long
preamble, declares the jurisdictional and.territorial
rights, and'the fee-simple to be in the state, and then
enacts, that certain portions of the vacant-lands s' ould
be sold to four distinct associations of individuals,
callingthemselves respectively, "The Georgia Company," "The Georgia Mississippi Company," "' The
Upper Mississippi Company " -nd " The Tennessee
Company."
The tract ordered to be sold to James Gunu and

FEBRUARY, 18o

93_

others, (the Georgia Company,) was descr-ed as fol- FLLTVUIa
lows: "'All that tract or parcel of land, including
p .
E
islands, situate, lying and being within the following
.boundaries; thatis to say, beginning on the.,Mobile
bay where the latitude 31 deg. nofth of the equator,
intersects the same, running'thence up the said bay to
the mouth of lake Tensaw; thence up the said lake
Tensaw to the Alabama river, including Curry's, and
all other islands therein; thence up the said Alabama
river to the junction of the Coosa and Oakfushee
rivers; thence up the Coosa river above the big-shoals
to whereit intersects the latitude of thirty-four degrees north of the equator; thence a due west course
to the Mississippi river; thence down the middle of
the said river to the ltitude-32 deg. 40 mim.; thence,
a due east course to the Don or I ombigby river;
thence dbwn the middle of the said river to -itsjuIIction with the Alabama river; thence down the middie of the saidriver to MIobile bay;-thende dowri'the
Mobile bay to the place of beginning.
Upon payment of 50,000 dollars, the governor was
required to issue -and sign a grant for the sam , taki~g
a mortgage to secure the balauce, being 200,000 dollars, payable on the first of November, 1795..
The plea then avers, that all the tenements'described
in the first count are included in, and parcel of, the
lands in the said act to be sold to the'. said Gunn,
M'Allister, and Walker and their associates, as, in th&
act is meutioned.
,nd that by f6rce and virtue'of the said act, and of
the constitfition aforesaid, of the said state, the said
latthews, governor ofthe said tate, wa fully and legally empowered to sell and convey the tenements
aforesaid, and the soil thereof, subject as aforesaid, in
fee-simple by the said patent under the seal of the
said state, and under his signature, according to the
terms, limitations, and conditions in, the said act mentioned. And all this he is ready to verify; wherefore,

"&c.

S4
?Nrvcala

v.
"

SUPREME COURT U. S.

To this plea there was a general demurrer and
joinder.
2d plea. To the second count the defendant, "protesting that the said Gunn, M.A.llister, and Walker
did not make the promises and assurances to divers
members of the legislature of the said state of Geor.
gia, supposed by the said Fletcher in his second count,
for plea saith, that until after the purchase by the said
Greenleaf, as -ismentioned in the said second count,
neither he the said defendantf nor the said Prime, nor
the said Greenleaf, nor the said Phelps, nor the said
Hichborr, nor either of them, had any notice nor
knowledge that any such promises and asstirances
were made by the said Gunn, M'Allister and Walker,
or either'of them, to any of the members of the legislature'of the said State of Georgia, as is supposed
by the said Fletcher in his said second count, and this
he is ready to verify," &c.
To this plea also there was a general demurrer and
joinder.
3d plea to the third count was the same as the
second plea, with the adclition of an averment that
Greenleaf, Prince, Phelps Hichborn and the defendant were, until and after t"' purchase by Greenleaf, on
the 22d of August, 1795, and ever since have been,
citizens of some of the United States other than the
State of Georgia.
To this plea also there was a general demurrer and
joinder.
4th Plea. To the fourth count, the defendant pleaded
that at the time of passing the act of the 7th of January, 179, the State of Georgia was seised in fee-simple of all ihe tenements and territories aforesaid, and
of all the soil thereof, subject only to the extinguishment of the Indian title to part thereof, and of this he
puts himself on the country, and the plaintiff likewise.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

95

Upon the issue joined upon the fourth plea, the jury FLVTe.
V.
found the following special verdict, viz.
-

That his late majesty, Charles the second, King of. "
Great Britain, by his letters patent under the great seal
'f Great Britain, bearing.date the thirtieth day of
June, in the seventeenth year of his reign, did grant
unto Edward Earl of Clarendon, George Duke of
Albemarle, William Earl of Craven, John Lord
Berkeley, Antony Lord Ashby, Sir George Carteret,
Sir John Colleton, and Sir William Berkeley, therein
called lords proprietors, and their heirs and assigns,
all that province, territory, or tract of ground, situate,
lying and being in North America, and described as
follows: extending north and eastward "as far as the
north end of Carahtuke river or gullet; upon a straight
westerly line to Wyonoahe creek, which lies Within .or
about the degrees of thirty-six and thirty minutes of
naorthern latitude, and so west in a direct line as far as
the South Seas, and south and westward as far as the
degrees of twenty-nine inclusive, northern latitide, and
so west in a direct line as far as the South Seas' (which
territory was called Carolina,)- together with all ports,harbours, bays, rivers, soil, land, fields, woods, lakes,
and other rights and privileges therein named; that
the said lords proprietors, grantees aforesaid, afterwards, by force of said grant, entered upon and took
possession'of said territory, and established within the
same many settlements, and erected therein fortifications and posts of defence.
And the jury ifrther find, that the northern part of
the said tract of land, granted as aforesaid to the, said'
lords proprietors, was afterwards created a colony by
the King of Great Britain, under the name of North
Carolina, and that the most northern part of the thirtyfifth degree of north.latitude was theh and ever afterwards the boundary dnd line between North Carolina
and South Carolina, and that the land, described in the
plaintiff's declaration, is situate in that part of said
tract, forinerly called Carolina, which was afterwards
a colony called South Carolina, as aforegaid; that
afterwards, on the tifenty-sixth day of July, in the

96.
'L$TCUSR

v.
P -tK.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

third year ,of the reign of his late majesty George thesecond, King of Great Britain, and in the year of our
Lord one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-nine,
the heirs or legal representativ.es of all the said gran.
tees, except those of Sir George Carteret, by deed of
indenture, made between authorized agents of the said
King George the second, 'and the -heirs and represen.
tatives of the said grantees, in conformity to an act of
the parliament of said kingdom of Great Britain, entitled,," An -act for establishing an agreement with
seven of the lords proprietors of Carolina- for the Surrender of their tite and interest in that province to his
majesty,'* for and in consideration of the sum- of
twentty-wo thousand five hundred pounds of the mo;
:aey of Great .Britain, paid to the said heirs and representatives of the said seven of the lords prqprietors,
by the said agent of the said.king, sold and surrendered
to his said majesty, King George the second, all their
right'of soil, and other privileges to the said granted
territbry ; which deed of indenture was duly executed
and was enrolled in the chancery of Great Britain, and
'there remains in the chapel- of the rolls. That after-"
wards, on. the ninth day of December, one thousand,
seven hundred and twenty-nine, his said majesty,
George the second, appointed Robert Johnson, Esq.
to be governor of the province of South Carolina, by
a.commission under the great seal of the said kingdom
of Great Britain ; in which commission the said Governor John'son 'is authorized to. grant lands within the
said province, but no partic.lar limits of the said pro.
Vince i therein defined.
And the jury further find, that the said Governor
of South Carolina did exercise jurisdiction in and
over the said colony of South Carolina under the commission aforesaid,' claiming to have jurisdiction by
force thereof as far souithward and westward as the
southern and western bounds of the aforendentioned.
grant of' Carolina, by King Charles the second, to the
said lords proprietors, but that he was often interrupted therein and prevented therefrom in the southern
and western parts 6f said graknts by the public enemies
of the King of Great Britain, who at divers times

97

FEBRUARY, 1810.

hAd .actual possession of the'southern and %Vestern FLP Entc
Pv
That afterwards the right honoura-.
parts aforesaid.
ble Lord Viscount Percival' the honouraule Edwkrd
Digby, the honourable Georg&Carpenter,'James Ogle.
thorpe, Esq. with others, petitioned the lords of the
committee of his said majrsty's privy council for agrant of lands in South Carolina, for the charitable
purpose of transporting necessitous persons and fai.
lies from London to that provin 6 e, to -procure there -a
livelihood by their industry, and to.be'incorporated. for
thaf purpose ; that the lordls of the said privy, council
referred the said petition to the board of trade, so calli:d, in Great Britain, who, on"the seventeenth day of
December, in the.year of our Lord one. thqusand seven hundred and thirty, made report thereon, and
therein recommt-nded that his said majesty wouid. be
pleased to incorporate the said petitioners as a charita:ble society, by th name of "The Corporation for the
purpose-of establishing charitable colonies in-America,
with perpetual succession " And the said report further recommended, that his said majesty be pleased
If to grant to the said petiti6ners and their successors
for ever, all that tract of land in his province oi South
Carolina, lying between the rivers Savannah and Alatamaha, to be bounded by the most navigable and largest
branches of the Savannah, and the most southerly
branch of the Alat-anaha." And that they should be
separated from the provinte. of South Carolina, and
be made a colony independent thereof, save only in
the command of their militia. That, afterwards, on
-the-tweny-second day of December,-. one .thousand
seven hundred and thirty-one, the said -board of trade
reported further to the said lords of the privy council,
and recommended that the western boundary of the
new charter of the colony, to be established in. South
Carolina, should extend as far as that described in the

ancient patents granted by King Charles the second to
the late lords- proprietors of Carolina, whereby that
province was to extend westward in a direct line as far
as the South Seas. That afterwards, on the nirthi
day
of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and thirty-two, his said majesty, George th&,
Vol. VI.

-

-

-"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
•,. raa
v.

second, by his letters patent, or royal charter, under
the great seal of the said kingdom of Great Britain,
did incorporate the said Lord ,Viscount'Percival and
others, the petitioners aforesaid, into a body politic
and corpbrate, by the name of " The trustees for establishing the colony of.Georgia, in America, with per-'
petual succession;" and did, by the same letters patent,
give and grant in free and common socage, and not
in capite, to the said corporation and their successors,
seven undivided parts (the whole, into eight equal parts
to be divided)'of all those lands, countries and territories, Isituate, lying and being in *that part of' South
Carolina in America, 'which lies from a northern
stream,of a river there commonly called the Savannah,
all along the sea-coast to the southward unto the most
southern branch of a certain other great water or river,
called the Alatamaha, and westward from the heads of
the said rivers respectively in direct lines to the South
Seas, and all the lands lying within said boundaries,
with the islands in the sea, lyingopposite to the eastern
cobist of the same, togethei. vith-all the soils, grounds,
havens, bays, mines, minerals, woods, rivers, waters,
fishings, jurisdictions, franchises, privileges, and 'preeminencgs within the said territories. That afterwards, in the 'same .year, the' right honofirable John
Lord Carteret, Baron-of Hawnes, in the county ofBedford, then Earl Granville, and heir of the late Sir
George Carteret, one of the' grantees and lords proprietors aforesaid, by deed of indenture between him and
the said trustees for establishing.'the colony of Georgia
in America, for valuible consideration therein mentioned, did give, grant,- bargain and sell unto the said
trustees for establishing the colofiy of Georgia aforesaid,.and their successors, all his one undivided eighth
part of or belonging to.the said John Lord Carteret
(thewhole into eight equal parts to be'divided) of, ip,
and to the aforesaid territory, seven undivided eight
parts 'of which had been before granted by his said majesty to said trustees.
And the jury further find, that one eighth part qf
the 'sid territory, granted to the said lords proprietors,
and called Carolina as aforesaid, which eighth part be-

FEBRUAR,

18to.,

longed to Sir George Carteret, and was not surrendered
as aforesaid, was afterwards divided and set off le-severalty t; tfie heirs of 'the said Sir George Crteret in
that part of said territory which was afterwards made
a colony by the nanme of $orth Carolina., That after-"
wards, in the same year, the.said jAmes Oglethorpe,
Esq.. one of the said corporation, for andi" the name
of and as agent'to the said corporation,- with' a, large
nuthber, of other persons hinder his aiithoi'ity and control, took possession of said territory,.granted as aforesaid to the said corporation, made a treaty wzith some
of the native Indiadis within said territory, iii which,
for and in behalf of said1 corporation, he made purchases'of said Indians of their native rights to partl of
said territory, and erec6ted forts, in several places to
keep up mnirks of possession. That afterwards, on the
the year last mentioned' on
sixth day of September, ifi
the application of said 5orporation to the said board of
trade, they the said board of trade, in the name of his
said majesty, sent instructions to said Robert Johnson,
then Governor of South Carolina,'thereby willing and
requiring him to give'all due countenance and. encouragementfor the settling of the said colony of Georgia,
,by. being aiding and assisting to" ank setders therein:
and further requiring him to cause to be registered the
aforesaid charter of the colony of Georgia, within the
said province of South Carolina, and the same to be
entered of* record by the proper officer of the said
province of South Carolina.
And the jury turther 'find, that the Governor of
South Carolina, after the granting the said charter of
the colony of Georgia, did exercise.jurisdictiqn- south
of the .southern limits of said colony of Georgia,
claiming the same to be within the limits of his go.
verilment; and particularly that he had-the superintendency and control of a military post there, and did make
divers giants of land there, which lands have ever
since been holden under his said grants. That. afterwards, in the year of our Lord one thousand seveh
hundred and fifty-two, by deed of, indenture made
between his said majesty, George .the second, of the
one part, and the said trustees for establishing the

FLriX'z"
-v

100
FLET.HER

v:

PECK

SUPREME COURT U. S.

colony in America of the other part, they the said
trustees, for divers valuable considerations therein
expressed, did, for themselves, and their.successors,

grant, surrender, and yield up 'to his said majesty,
George the second, his heirs and successors, their said
letters patent, and their charter of corporation, and all
right, title and authority, to be or continue i corporate
body, and all their powers of government, and all
other powers, jurisdictions, franchises, pre-eminences
and privileges therein, or thereby granted 6r conveyed
to them; and did also grant and convey to his said
majesty, George the second, his heirs and successors,
all the spid lands, countries, territories and premises,
as Well the said one eighth part thereof granted by the
sa d J')hn Lord Cartrret to them as aforesaid, as also
the said seven eighth parts thereof, granted as aforesaid by his said majesty's letters patent or charter as
aforesaid, together with all the soils, grounds, havens,
ports, bnys, mines, woods, rivers, waters, fishings,
jurisdictions, franchises, privileges and pre-eminences,
within said territories, with all their right, title, interest, zlaim or demand whatsoever in and to the premises; and which grant and surrender aforesaid, was
then accepted by his said majesty for himself and his
successors; and said indenture was duly executed on
the part of said trustees, with the privity pnd by the
direction of the common council of the said corporation by affixing the common seal of said corporation
thereunto, and on the part of his said majesty by
causing the great seal of Great Britain to be thereunto
affixed. That afterwards, on the sixth day of August, one thousand seven hundred and fifty-four,
-his said majesty, George the second, by his royal commission of that date under the great seal of Great Britain, constituted and appointed John Reynolds, Esq.
to be captain-general and commander in chief in and
over said colony of Georgia in America, with the following boundaries, viz. lying from the most northerly
stream of a river therc commonly called Savannah,
all along the sea coast to the southward unto the most
southern stream of a certain other great water or river
called the Alatahama, and westward from the heads
ot the said rivers respectively, in straight lines to the
South Seas, and all the space, circuit and preqitict of

FEBRJARY, 1810.

101

land lying within the said boundaries, with the islands FLETCHER
v.
in, the sea 1)ing opposite to the eastern coast of .said
RC
Thataftersame.
the
of
leagues
lan'ds within twenty
wards, on the tenth day of lkebruar), in the year of
our Lord one thousand severn hundred and sixtythree, a definitive treaty of peace *as concluded at
Paris, between .his catholic majesty, the King of
Spain, and his majesty, George the third, King *of
Great Britain; 6k the twentieth article of which treaty, his said catholic majesty did cede-and guaragty,
in full right to his Britannic mjesiy, Florida, with ort
St. Augustin, and the bay of Pensacola, as w~ll as all
tht Spain possessed on the continent of N~orth Ame.
r ica, to the east or to the south east of the river Mississippi, and in general all that depended on the said
countries and island, with the sovereignty, property,
possession, and all rights acquired by treaties or other,wise, which the catholic king and the crowh of Spain
had till then over the said countries, lands,'places, and
th-ir inhabitants ; so that the catholic king did cede and"
make over'the whole to the said king and the said crown
.of.Great Britain, and that in the most ample inaunter
and form.
That afterwards, on the seventh day of October,
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
and sixty-three, his 'said majesty, -George the third,
King of Great Britain, by jnd with the advice of his'
privy council, did issue his royal proclamation, there-.
in. publishing anddeclaring, that he, the said King Of
Great Britain, had, with the advice of his said privy
council, granted his letters patent, under the great seal
of Great Britain, -to erect within the countries and
islands ceded and confirmed to him by the said treaty,
four distinct and separate governments, styled and
called-by the nanies ot quebec, East Florida, -West
Florida and 'Grenada; in which proclamation the
said government ot West Florida is described as follows, viz. Bounded.to the southward by th6 gulf of
Mexico, including all islands within six leagues of thie
toast from the river Apalachicola to. lake Pontehartrain, to the westward by the said'lake, the lake Maturepas, and the river Mississippi; to the nofthward by

102
VLZ

u aR

v.

SUPREME COURT U S.

a line drawn due east from that part of the river Mississippi-which lies in thirty one-degrees of north latitude, to the rivc" Apalachicola or Catahouchei; and
to the castward by the said river. And in ,the same*
proclamation the said government of East Florida is
dlescribed as follows, viz. bounded to the westward
by the gulk of Mekico and the Apalbchicola river;
to the northward by-a line drawp from that part of the
said Arver where the Catah~puche6 and Flint rivers
meet, to the source of St. Mary's river, and by the
courae of the said river to the Atlantic Ocean; and to
the east anti south by the Atlantic Ocean and the gulf
of Florida, including all islands within six leagues of
the sea coast. And in and .by the same proclamation,
all lands lying between the rivers Alatamaha and St.
IMvary's were declared to be annexed.to the :aid province of Georgia; and that in and by the same proclamation, it was further declared by the said king as
follows, viz. "1That it is our royal will and pleasure
for the prese.vt, as aforesaid, to reserve under otir sovereignty, protection and dominion for the use of the said
Indians all the land and terri'tories not included within
the limits of 'our said three new governments, or
within the limits of the territory granted to the Hudson's Bay Company, as also all the land and territories
lying, to the westward of the sources of the rivers
which fall into the sea from the west and north-west as
aforesaid; and we do hereby strictly fQrbid, on pain of
our displeasure, all our loving subjects from making
any purchases or settlements whatever, or takifig p'ossession of any of the lands above reserved,. without
our special leave and license for that purpose first obtained."
And the jury find, that the land described in the
plaintiff's declaration did lay to the" westward of the
sources of the rivers w'hich fall into the sea from the
west and north-west as albresaid. That afterwards,
on the twenty-first day of Ndvember, in the year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred and sixty-three, and
in the f6urth year of the reign of said King George the
third, he the Said king, by his royal 6ommission under
the great seal of Great Britain, did constitute and ap-

FEBRUARY, 1810.

103,

point George Johnsio'ne, Esq. captain-generid an4 go- rLaZsc~t'Z
.
vernor in chief over the said prQvince of West Florida in
America; in which commission the said province was
described in the same worZls of limitation and extent, Ps
in. said proclamation is-before set down. Thai afterwards, on the twentieth day of Yanuary, in the year of
our Lord one thousand'seven hundred and sixty-four,
the said King ofGreat Britain, by his commission under
the great seal of Great Britain, did constitute and ap.point James Wright, Esq. to be the captain-general and
governor in chief in and over the colony of Georgia, by
the following bounds, viz. bounded oh the north by the.
most northern strean of a river there commonly. alledSavannah, qsfar as the heads of the said river; andfromn
thence westward asfar as our territdriesectend; on the
east, by the sea coastj from the said river Savannah
to the most southern streai.of a certain other river,
calledSt. Nary;. (including all islandls within twenty
leagues of the coast lying, betweeii the said. riier Savannah and St. Mary, hs far as the- head thereof;)
andfrom thence we stward ais far as our territories ex'-"
tend by the north boundary line of ourprovinces of .Eqst
andWest Florida.
That - fterwards, from the year one thousand seven
hundred and seventy-five, to the year one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-three; an open -war existed.
between the colonies'of New-Hampshire, -Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations,
Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvani'a,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina and Georgia, called the United States, on the
one part, and his, said majesty, George the third,
King of Great Britlin, on the other part. And on.the
third day of September, in the year of our Lord one
thousand seven hlndred and eighty-three, a definiti ,e
treaty of peace was signed and concluded at Paris, by
and between certain authorized co'mmissioneis on the
part of the said belligerent pow'ers, which was- afterwards duly ratified and confirmed by the. said two respective powers; by the first article of which treaty,
the said King George the third, by the name of his Britannic majesty, acknowledged the aforesaid United

SUPREME COURT U. S.
LTCHaa

V.
PzcKc.

States to be free,* sovereign and independent tates;
that he treated with them as such, and for hinsell his
heirs and successors, relinquishes all claim to the governmcnt, propriety and territorial rights of the ;ame,
and every part thereof; and by the second article of
said treaty, the wesLern boundary of the United States
is a line drawn along the middle of the river Mississippi, until it shall intersect, the northernmost part of
the thirty-first degree of north" latitude ; and the
southerh boundary is a line drawn due east from the
determination of the said line, in the latitude of thirty-one degrees rortia of the equator, to the middle of
the river Apalachicola or Catahouchee; thence along
the middle thereof to its junction -with the'EKiut river;
thence straight to the head of St. -Mary's river; and
thence clown along the middle of St., Mary's river to'
the Atlantic Ocean.
And the jury further find, that in the year of our
Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two, the
Congress of the United States did instruct the said
.commissioners, authorized oh the part of the United
States to negotiate and conclude the treaty aloresaid,
that they should claim in this negotiation, respectind
the boundaries of the United S.ates, that the ;wost
northern p-aft of the thirty-first degree of north latitude
should be agreed to be the southern boundary of the
United States, on the ground that that was the southern boundary of the colony of Georgia; and that the
river Mississippi should be agreed to be the western
boundary. of the United States, on the groubd.that the
.c(,1Iny of Georgia and other colonies, now states of the
United States, were bounded westward by that river;
and that the commissioners on the part of the United
States did, in said ncgotiation, claim the same ac-"
cordinglv, and that on thos.e grounds the said south.
ern and .Nestern boundaries of the United. Stares
were agreed to by the comninissioners on -the part
of the King of 'Great Britain. That afterwards,
.inthe sanie year, the legislature of the state of
Geoigia passed an act, declaring her right, and
proclaiming her title to all the lands lying within
her boundafiies to the rivet Mis isipp . Aid
in the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred

FEBRUARY, 1810.

105

and eighty-five, the legislature of the: said state. Pf
'Georgia x:stablished a county, by the name of Bourbon,
on the Mississippi, and appointed civil officers for said
county, which lies within, the boundaries now denominated the Mis;issippi territory; that thereupon a
dispute arose between the state of South Carolina and
the 9tate of Geoigia, cpncerning their respective boundAries, the said stares separately claiming the same
territory ;. and the said state of South Carb1ina, on the
"first day of June, in the year of our lord one thou.sand seven hundred and eighty-five, petitioned the
congrets, of the United States for a hearing and determination of the differences: and disputes subsisting between them and the statd of Georgia, agreeably to the
nin.h article of the then confederation and perpetual
pnion betweenithe United States of America; that
the said congress 6f the United States did thereupon
oa. the same day resolve, that the second Monday in
May then next following.should be assigned for the
appearance of the said states of South Carolina ind
Vteorgia, by their lawful agents, and did then and there
give notice thereof to the said state of Georgia, by
serving the legislature'of said state with an- attested
copy of said, petition of the state of South Carolirla,
and said resolve of congress. That afterwards, on
the eighth day of May, in the year of our lord one
thousanid seven hundred and eighty-six, by the joint
consent of the agents of said states of South C.arolibja
and Georgia, the congress resolved that -further d Ay
be gtvgn 'for the said hearing,' and assigned th'e fif.
teenth day of-the same month for that purpose, That
afterwards, on the eighteenth day of May aforesaid, the
said copgress resolved, that further d~y be givan
for the. said hearing, and appointed the first Mouday in.September, then next ensuing, for that purpose. That afterwards, on the first day of Septenaber then next ensuing, authorized agents from the
states of Carolina and Georgia attendqd in pursuiance
of the order of congress aforesaid, and procuced their
ciedentials, which were' read in. congress, -and there
r~corded, together with the acts of their respective
legislatures;' which afcts ,'1nd credentials authorized the
vaid agents to scttle apd comu'omise all thedif&.rinces
Vo]. VI.

O

-

FLETGkIA..

v.

106

SUPREME COURT U. S,

FLZTCHZR
and disputes aforesaid, as well as to appear and repreV

PECK.
,

sent the .said states respectively before any tribunal
that might be created by congress for that purpbse,
agreeably to the said ninth article of the confederatiorit
And in conformity to the powers aforesaid, the said
commissioners of both the said states of South Carolina and Georgia, afterwards, on the 28th day of
April, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and eighty-seven, met at Beaufort, ip th, state
of South Carolina, and then and there entered into,
signed, and concluded a convention between the states
of South Carolina and Georgia aforesaid. By the
-first article of which convention it was mutually agreed
between the said states, that the most northern branch
9r stream of the river Sa' annah from the sea or mouth
of such stream to the fork or confluence of the rivers
then-called Tugaloo and Keowee ; and from thence'
the most northern branch or stream of said river Tugaloo, tilr'it intersects. the northern boundary line of
*South Carolina, if the said branch or stream of Tugaloo extends so far north, reserving all the islands in the
said rivers Savannah and Tugaloo, .to Georgia; but
if the head, spring, or source of any branch or stream
of the said river Tugaloo. does not extend to the
north boundary" line of South Carolina, then a west
course to the Mississippi, to be drawn from the head,
spring, or source of the said branch or stream of Tugaloo river, which extends to the highest northern latitude, shall for ever thereafter form the separation,
limit, and boundary between the dtates of South Carolina and Georgia. And by the third article of the
convention aforesaid, it was agreed by the said states
of South Carolina and Georgia, that the said state of
South Carolina should not thereafter clain any, lands
to the eastward, southward, south-eastward, or west of
the said boundary above'established; and that the said
state of South Caroling did relinquish and cede to the
sai&state of Georgia all the right, title, and claim which
ihe siid state of South Carolina had to the govern.
ment, sovereignty, and jurisdiction in and over the
same, and also the right and pre-empti6n of soil from
thenative Indians, and all the estate, property, and
claim which the said state of South Carolina had in oi"
to the said lands.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

107

And the jury further find, that the land described id
the plaintiff's declaration is situate south-west of the
boundary line last aforesaid; and that the same land
lies within the limits of the territory granted to the
said lords proprietors of Carolina, by King .Charles
the secondi as aforesaid, and within the bounds of the
'territory agreed to belong and ceded to the King of
Great Britain, by the said treaty of peace made in .seventeen hundred and sixty-three, as aforesaid; and
within the bounds of the United States, as agreed and
settled by the treaty of peace in seventeen hundred and
eighty.three, as aforesaid; and north" of a line drawn
due east, from the mouth of the said river Yazoos,
where it unites witi the Mississippi aforesaid. That
-afterwards, on the ninth day of August, in the year of
our lord bne thousand seven hundred and eighty-seVen, the delegates of said state of South Carolina in
congress moved, that the said convention, made as
aforesaid, be ratified and confirmed, and that the lines
and limits therein specified be thereafter taken and received as the boundaries between the said states of
South Carolina and Georgia; which motion was by
the unanimous vote of congress committed, and the
same convention was thereupan entered of record on
-the journals of congress; and on the same day John
Kean and Daniel Huger, by virtue of authority given
to them by the legislature of said state of SotthCarolina, did execute a deed of cession on the part of said
state of South Carolina, by which they ceded and
conveyed to the United States, in congress assembled,
for the benefit of all the said states, all their right and
title to that territory and tract of land included within
the river Mississippi, and a line beginning at that part
of the said river which is intersected by the southern
boundary line of the state of North Carolina.; and
continuing along the said boundary line, until it intersects the ridge or chain of mountains which divides
the eastern from the western waters; then to be continued along the top of the said ridge of mountains,
until it intersects a line tobe drawn due west from the
head-of the southern branch of the Tugaloo river to
the said mountains, and thence to run a due west course
to the river Mississippi; which deed of cession was

FL

TC1

v.

ER

SUPREME COURT U. S.
V{fiTGHZR-

V.

thereupon received atid entered on the journals of'
congress, and accepted by them.
The jury further find, that the congress of the Uhnited Srateg did, on the sixth day of September, in the
year of our lord one thousand, seven hundred and eighty, recommend to the several states in the union having claims to western territory, to make a liberal cession to the United States of a portion of their respective claims for the common benefit of the union. That
afterwards, on the ninth day of August, in the year of
our lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-siz,.
the said congress resolved, that whereas the states of
Massachusetts, New-York, Connqcticut, and Virginia
had, in consequence of the recommendation of congress on the sixth day of September aforesaid, made
essiatis of their claims to western territory to the United States in congress assembled, for the use of the
United States, the said subject be again presented to the
view of the states of N. Carolina, S. Carolina and Georgia, who had not complied with so reasonable a proposition ; and that they be once more solicited to consider with candour and liberality the expectations of their
sister states, and the earnest and repeated applications
made to them by congress on this subject. That afterwards, oa.the twentieth day of October, one thotisand
seven huidred and eighty-sevenj the congress of the
United Sthtes passed the following resolve, viz. that
it be and hereby is represented to the states of NorthCarolina and Georgia, that the lands, which have been
ceded by the..Sher states in compliance with the recommendation of this body, are now selling in large
qu'antities for public securities ; that the deeds of cession from the different states have been made without
annexing an express. condition, that they -should not
operate fill the other states, under like circumstances,
'made similar cessiong; and that congress. have such
'faith in the justice and magnanimity of the states of
North Carolina and Georgia, that they only think it.necessary to call their attention to these circumstances.
not doubting but, upon consideration of the subject.
they will f"el those obligations which will induce simi.
far ce Sions, and justify that confidence which has beer

FE13RUARY 181o

109

That afterwards, on the first day of
February, ojle thousand sevent hundred and eightyeight, the legislature of said state of Georgia, then
duly convened, passed an act for 'ceding part of the
territorial claims of said state to the United States; by
which act the state of Georgia aurhorized her delegates in congress to convey to the United States the
territorial claimis of said state of Georgia to a certain
tract of country bounded as follows, to wit: beginning at the middle of the river Catahouchee or Apalachicola, where it is intersected hr the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and from thence due north one
hundred and forty miles, thence due west to the river
Mississippi ; thence down the middle of the said -river
to where it intersects the thirty-first degree of north
latitude, and along the said degree to the place of beginning ; annexing the provisions and conditions following, to wit: 1That the United States in congress
assembled, shall guaranty to the citizens of said territory a republican form of government, subject only
to such changes as may take place in the federal constitution .of the United States ; secondly, that the navigation of all the waters included in the said cession shall
he equally free to all the citizens of the United States;
nor shall any' tennage on vessels, or any duties what.
ever, be laid on any goods, wares, or merchandises
that pass up or down the said waters, unless for the
use and 6enefit of the United States. Thirdly, that
the. sum of one hundred and and seventy-one thousand
and twenty-eight dollars, forty-five cents, -which has
bheen expended in quieting the -minds of the Indians,
and resisting their hostilities, shall be allowed as a
.charge against the United States, and be- admitted in
payment of the specie requisition of that state's quotas
that have been or may be required by the United
States. Fourthl,, that in all cases where the state nfiay
'require .defence, the expenses arising thereon shall be
'allowed as a charge against the United States, agreeably
to the articles of confederation. Fifthly, that congress
shall guaranty and secure all the remaining territorial
rights of the state, as pointed out and expressed' by
tht; dt finitive treaty of peace between the United States
and Great Britain, the convention between the said

placed in them.

FILTceRZ-

v

110.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

yuaHF-n state and the state of South Carolina, entered into the

P

V.

twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our lord one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, and the
clause of an act of the said state of Georgia, describing
the boundaries thereof, passed the seventeenth day of
February, in the year one thousand seven huridred and
eighty-three, which act of the said state of Georgia,
with 9iid conditions annexed, was by the delegates of
said state in congress presented to the said congress,
and the same AWas, after being read, committed to a
committee of congrest; who, on the fifteenth day of
July, in the said year one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-eight, made report thereon to congress, as follows, to wit: "The committee, having fully considered'the subject referred to them-, are of opinion, that
the- cession offered by the state of Georgia cannot be
accepted on tle terms proposed; first, because it appears highly probable that on running the boundary
line between that state and the adjoining state or states,
a claim, to a large tract of country extending to the
lMississippi, and lying between the tract proposed to be
ceded, and that lately ceded by South Carolina, will be
retained by the said state of Georgia; and therefore the
land which the state now offers to cede must be too far
removed from the other lands" hitherto ceded 'to the
union to be of any immediate advantages to it. Secondly, ecause there appears to be due from the state of
Georgia, on specie requisitions, but a small part of the
sum mentioned in the third proviso or condition before recited ; and it is improper in this case to allow a
charge against the specie requisitions of congress
whIch may hereafter be made, especially as the said
state stands charged to the United States for very con-'
siderable sums of money loaned. And, thirdly, because
the fifth proviso or condition before recited contains
a special guaranty of territorial right6, and such a guaranty has not been made by congress- to any state, and
which, considering the spirit and iaeaning -of the con-

federation, must be unnecessary and improper. But
the committee are of opinion, that the first, sebond, and
fourth provisions, before recited, and also the third,
with some variations, may' be admitted ; and'that,

should the said atate eitend the bounds of her cessiorf,

PEBRUARY, 1810.

l11

".and vary the terms thereof as herein after mentioned,

congress may accept the same. Whereupon they submit thC following resolutions: That the cession of
claims to western' territor , offered by the state of
Georgia, cannot be accepted on the terms contained in
her-act passed the first of February last. That in case
tht said stateshall authorize her delegates in congress
to make a cession of all her territorial claims to lands
west of the river Apalachicola, or west of a meridiani
line running through or'near the point where that river
intersects the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and
shall omit the last proviso in her said act, and shall so
far vary the proviso respecting the sum of one hundred
and "seventy-one thousand four hundred and twentyeight dollars, and forty-five cents, expetided in quieting
and resisting the Indians, as that the said state shaJl
have credi t in the specie requisitions of congress, to
'the amount of her specie quotas on the past requisitions, and fdr the repidue, in.her account with the
United States for moneys loaned, congress will accept
the cession." Which report being read, congress reL
solved, that congress agree to the said report,
The jury further find, that in the year of our lord
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, Thomas
Jefferson, Esq. then gecretary of state for the United
States, made a report to the then President of the United States, which was intended to serve as a basis of instructions to the commissioners of the United States
for settling the points which were then in-dispute between the King of Spain and the government of the
United States; one of which points in dispute was,
the-just..botindaries between West Florida and thfe
southern line of the United States. •On, this point,
the said secretary of state, in his report aforisaid,
expresses himself as follows, to wit-: " As to boundary,'that betweeri Georgia-and West Florida is the only
one which needs any explanation. It (that i.thle court
of.Spain) sets up a claim to possessions within the state
of Geoigiaj founded on her (Spain) having rescued them
by force from the -British during the late war. The
followving view' of that subject seems to admit of
no reply. The several states'now composing the Uni.

FL.TCZAL

v.

112
UP-THEX1

V.

SuPtEli 1 z COURT" U. S.

ted Sotes of Amtrica were, ffom their first establioh,
ment, separate and distinct societies, dependent on no
other society of men whatever., They ontinued at
the-head of their respective governments the executive
magistrate. who presided over the one they had left,
and thereby secured in effect a constant amity with
he nation. In this stage of their government their
several boundaries were -ixed, and particularly the
southern boundafy of Georgia, the only one now in
questian,-was estv,bished at the thirt%. first degree of
1 he
latitude, from the. Apalaehkola wiestwardly.
stuthern limits of Georgia depend. chiefly on, first, the
charter of South Carolin,, &c. Secontilv, on the proclamation of the British king, in one thousand seven
hundred and sixty-threei establishing the boundari between Georgiht and Florida, to begin on the 1Mississippi, in thirty-one degrees of north latitude, and running eastwardly to the Apalachicola, &c. That after'wards, on the seventh day of December, of the same
year, the commissioners of the Unittd States for settlin4 the aforesaid" disputes, in their communications
with those bf the King of Spain, express thrmselves
as follows, to wit: ' In this stage of. their (meaning
the United States) government, thd several boundaries
were fixed, aqd particularly the southern boundary of
Georgia, the one now brought intd question by Spain.
This boundary was fixed by the proclamation of the
King of Great Britain, their -chief magistrate, in the
year on thousand seven hupdred and sixty-three, at a
time When t.o other power pretended any claim whatever to any part of the country' through which it run.
The boundary of Georgia' was thuaestablished: to begin'in -the Alissisippi, 'in latitude thirty-one north, and
running eastward to the Apalach'cola,' &c. From
what has been said, it results, first, that the boundary
Of Georgia, now foriniug the southern limits of the
United States, was lawfully established 'in the year se.
ventee'n hundred and sixtv-th'ree. Sedondly, that it
has been confirmed by the only power that'ctuld at any
time have pretensions to contesk it,'
That atterwards, on the tenth day of Augist, in the
year t79.5, Thomas Pinckney, Lsq., ministek, pleni&-

FEBRUARY, 1810.

113

.tentiary of thb United States at the court of.Spain, in

a communication to the prince of peace,, prime minis-.
Aer of Spain, agreeably to: his instructions from the
President of the Unitid States on the sulbject of said,
boundaries, expresses himself as follows, to wit"Thirty.two years have elapsed since all the .country.
on .the left or eastern ,bank of the Mississippi, being
under the legitimate jurisdiction of the King of En.gland, that sovereign.thought proper to regulate with
precision the limits of Georgia and the two Floridas,
which was done by his solemn proclamation, published
in the usual f~rm; by which 'he established between
them precisely the same limits thatnear twenty years'
after, he declared to be the southern limits.of the
.United States, by the treaty which the same King of
England concluded with them in the month of November, seventeen hundred and eighty-two."

XEI'FCnER

That afterwards, on die 27th day of October, in the
year seventeen hundred and niriety-five, a treaty .of
friendship, limits and -navigation was concluded be.
tween the United States and his- catholic majesty the
King of Spain; in-the second article of which treaty it
is agreed, that the southern boundary of the United
States, which divides their territory from the Spanish
colonies of East and West Florida, shall be designated
by a line begiining on the riverMississippi, at the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude,
which from thence shall be drawn due east to the mid.
dle of the river Apalachicola or Catahouchee, thence
along the middle thereof to its junction with the
Flint, thence straight to the head of St. Mary's. river,
and thence down the -middle thereof to the Atlantic

ocean."

But whether, upon the whole matter, the state of
'Georgia, at the time of passing the act aforesaid, enti-

tled as aforesaid, as mentioned.by the plaintiff, in his
assignment of the breach in the ,fourth count of'his
declaration, was seised in fee-simple of all the territories and tenements aforesaid, and of all the soil thereof,
subject only to the extingu0ihment of-the Indian -title
VII.
V.

,P

.

114
FLETa'OE

V.
PECK.

SUPRE ME COURT U. S.

to part thereof, the jury are ignorant, and pray the "advisement of the court thereon; and if the court are' of
opinion, that the said state of Georgia was so seised
at the time aforesaid, then the jury find, that the. said
state of Gporgia, at the time of passing the act. aforesaid, entitled as aforesaid, -as mentioned by the said
Fletclier, in his assigntnent of the breach in the fourth
coun of his declaration, Was seised in fee-simple of
all the territories and tenements aforesaid; and of all
the soil thereof, subject only to the extinguishment of
the Indian title to part thereof, and the jury thereupon
find, that the said Peck his covenant 'aforesaid, the
breach whereof is assigned in the plaintiff's fourth
count mentioned, hath not broken, but hath kept the
same.
But if the court are of opinion that the said state of
Gc:orgia was -notpo seised at the time aioresaid, then
the jury find, that the said state of Georgia, at the
time of passing the act afpresaid, entitled as aforesaid,
as mentioned by the said Fletcher, in his assignment of
the breach in the fourth count of his declaration, was
not' seised of all the territories. and teinements aforesaid, and of all the soil thereof, subject only to the extinguishment of the Indian title to part thereof; and
the july thereupon. find, that the. said Peck his
covenant aforesaid, the breach whereof is assigned in
the plaintiff's fourth count mentioned, hath not kept,
but broken the same; and assess damages for the
plaintiff, for the breach thereof, in the sum of three
thousand dollars, and costs of suit.
Whereupon it was considered and adjudged by the
court below, that on the issues on the three first counts,
the several .pleas are good and sufficient, and -that the
demurrer thereto be overruled; and on the last issue,
on which .theo is a special verdict, that the state of
Georgia was seised, as alleged' by the defendant, and
thht the defendant recover his costs.
The .plaintiff sued out,hs writ of error, and tha case
was twice argued, first by Martin, for the plaintiff in.
hy ,7o R Adams, and R. G. Harper, for the
error; anb.

-FEBRUARY, 1sio.

1-15

defendant, at February term, 1809, and again at.this
term by -Martin, for the plaintiff , and by Harper and
Story, for the defendant.

FETCafEr

Martin, for the plaintiff inaerror.

'The first plea is no answer to the first count. The
breach of the covenant complained of is, that "the
legislaturehad no authority to sell dnd dispose of" the'
land, but the plea is, that "the said Matthews, governor
of the said state, was fully and legally empow,'red to
sell and convey" the land. Although the governor had
authority to sell, non constat'that the legislature had.
The same objection applies to the second plea; it is
an ans~ver to the inducement, not to the point of the
plea. The breach assigned in the second count is,
"that the title which the state of Georgia at any tim'e
had in the premises was never legally conveyed to the
said Peck by force of the conveyances aforesaid."
The improper influence ,upon the members of the
legislature was only inducement.
The plea is, the defendapt had no notice nor knowledge of the improper means used. It is no answer
to the breacfi assigned.
The same objection applies also to the third plea.
It appears upon the special verdict that the state of
Georgia never was seised'in fee of the lands, They
belonged to the crown of Great Britain, and at the
revolution devolved upon the United States, and not
upon the state of Georgia.
When the colonies of North Carolina and South
Carolina were royal colonies, the king limited the
boundaries, and disannexed these lands from Georgia._
Argument for the defendant in error.
The first fault of pleading is in the' decfaration.

v.
K,

116
FLETenEt

V.

PECK.

SUPItEML COURT U. S.

The breach of the coVenant is not well assigned in the
first count. The /cvenant is, that the legislature had
good right to sell.' The breach assigned is, that the
legislature had no euthority to sell. Authority and
right, are words of a different signification. Right
implies an interest : authority is a mere naked power.
But if the breach be well assigned, the plea is a.
substantial answer to it, for if the governor derived
full power and authority from the legislature to sell, the
legislature must have had that power to give. The
plea shows the title to be in the state of Georgia.
The objection is only to the form of the plea, which
cannot prevail upon a general demurrer.
Two questions arise upon the issue joined upon the
4th plea.
1st. Whether the title was in the state of Georgia;
and, 2d. Whether it was in the United States.
At the beginning of the revolution the lands were
within the bounds of Georgia. These bounds were
confirmed by the treaty of peace in 1783, and recognised in the treaty with Spain in 1795, and by the ces.
sion to the United States in 1802.
The United Staten can have no title but what is derived from Georgia.
. The title of Georgia depends upon the facts found
in the special verdict.
The second charter granted by George the 2d in
1732, includes these lands, the bounds of that grant
being from the Savannah to the Alatamaha, and from
the heads of those rivers respectively, in direct lines,
u; the South Sea.
It is not admitted that the king had a rigt to
enlarge or diminish the boundaries even of royal provinces.

FEBRUARY, 181o.,

117

The exercise of that right, even ,by parliament
itself, was one of the violations of right upon, which
the revolution was founded; as appears by the declaration of independence, the address to the people of Quebec, and other public documents of the time.
This right, claimed by the king, was denied by Virginia and North Carolina in their constitutions. See
the article of the constitution of Virginia .respecting
the limits of that state, and the 25th section of the der
clarationof rights of North Carolina. 1 Be4ham's Hist.
of Geo. 3d. The 9uebe" Act, and the Collection ofS tate
Constitutions,p. 180.
The right was denied by the commissioners on thepart of the United States,. who formed the ireaty, -and
was giveri up by Great Britain when the present line
was stablished.
But the proclamation of-1763 did not profeqsor intend to tisannex the western lands frbm the province
of Georgia. The king only declares that it is hi§ royal
will and pleasure for the present, "as aforesaid," to
reserve under his sovereignty, prote tion and dominion,
for the use of the Indians, all the lands and territories
lying to the westward of the sources of the rivers
which fallinto the sea from the west and north-west ;
and he thereby forbids his subjects from making purchasds or settlements, or taking possession of the sanle.
This clause of the proclamation cannot -well be understood without the preceding section to which it
refers, by the words "as aforesaid."
The preceding clause is, " that no gqernor or c6mmander in chief of our other colonies or plantations ini
America, i. e. (other than the colohies of Quebec, East
Florida and West Florida,) do presume for the present
and until our Jitrther pkleasure be known, to grant warrants bf surveys, or pass patents for any lands beyond
the heads or sources of any of ihe- rivers, which fall
into the Atlantic ocean-from the west or northi-west;
or upon any lands whatever. which, not having been

FLET6aZX

V.

118

SUPREME COURT U. S.

FLETCHER ceded to, or purchasest by us., as aforesaid, are reserved

to,the said Indians, or any of them."

V.

PEC.
"

Then comes the clause in question, which is supposed to have disannexed these lands fromGeorgia, as
follows: "And we do further declare it to be our royal
will and pleasure for the present as aforesaid, to reserve
under our sovereignty, protection and dominion, for
the use of the, said Indians, all the land and territories
lying to the westward of the sources of the rivers
which fall into the sea from the west and north-west as
aforesaid," &c.
It was a prohibition to "all the governors of all the
colonies, and a reservation of all the westernlands at4
tached to all thd colonies. But it was only. a temporary reservation for the use of the Indians.
If this proclamation disannexed these lands from
Georgia, it also disannexed all the.western lands from
all the"other colonies. But if they were disannexed
by the proclamation, they were reannexed three months
afterwards by the commission to Governor Wright, on
the 20th of January, 1764.
It appears by the report of the attorney-general, hs
well as by Mr. Chalmers's observations, that it never
was the opinion of the British government that these
lands were disannexed by the proclamation- ,
If they were' not reannexed before, they certainly
were by the treaty of peace.
At the commencement of the revolution, the lands
then belonged to and formed a part of the province of
Georgia.
By the declaration Qf independence the several states
wdre declared to be-'free, sovereign and' independent
states; and the sovereignty of each, not of the whole, was.
the principle of the revolution ; there was no connection
'between them, but that of necessity and self defence,
and,. in What manner each should. contribute to the
6

FEBRUARY, 1811

119-

cbtinion cause, was a matter left to the discretion of
each of the states. By the second article of the confederation the sovereignty of each state is confirmed, and all the
rights of sovereignty are declared to lie retained which
are not by that instrument expressly delegated to tlke
United States in congress assembled. It provides also
that no state shall be deprived of territory for the benefit.of the United States.
Ofn the 25th of Vebruary, 1783, the legislature of
Georgia passed an act declaring her boundaries, before
the d~finitive treaty of peace.- This declaration of
Georgia was not contradicted by the United States in
any public act.
In 1785, Georgia passed an act erecting the county
of Bourbon in that territory ; this produced a dispute
with South Carolina, which ended in the acknowledgment of the right of Georgia to these lands. (See the
third article of the coLvention.between South Carolina
and Geoigia.)
.The same boundaries are acknowledged b. the Ui.
ted States in their instructiohs, given by the secretary of
state, Mr. Jefferson, in 1793, to the commissioners
appointed- to :aettle the dispute with Spain respecting
boundaries. "
The United States certainly bad no cla'im at the.
commencement of the revolution, nor at the declaration of independence, nor under the artiles of confederation.
During the progress of the revolution a demand
was made by two or three of the states, that crown
lands should be appropriated for. the common defence.
But congress never asserted such a right. They only
recommended that cessions of territ6ry should be
made by the states for that purpose.
The journals of congress are crowded with proofs
of this fact. See journals.of congress, 16th Septembbr,
1776,.ol,2, P. 336. 30th of October, 1776. 15th

FLETCHrrn

v.-

10
Fs1TCHaz,

v

SUPREME COURT U. S.

-p. '345. 27ttk" Ocober, 177f,
ovol.
3.p 63. 22d rune, 1778, qatL 4. p., 262. 23d
and 25th Yune, 1778. P, 269. 179, vol. 5. p. 49.
21st May, 1779,vol. 5. p. 158. lst May ch, 1781. Resao.
lution of 1780, vol. 6. p. 123. 12th February, 1781,
vol. 7. _p. 26. 1st March, 4781. .29th October,, 1782$
Vol. 8..-.
October, 1777, Vol. 3.

At the treaty of peace, there was no idea of a ces.
sion of land to the United States, by' Great Britain.
The bounds of the United States were -fixed as tle bounds of the several states had been before fixed. The
United Stbites did not claim land for the United States
as a nation; they claimed only in right of the individual states, Great Britain yielded the principle of
the royal right to disannex lands from the colo.nies,
dud acquiesced in the principle- contended for by the
United' States, which was the' old boundary, of the
several states. See Chief. Justice. Jay's opinion im
the case of Chisholm v. The State of Georgia,reported
in a pamphlet piiblished in 1793.
The United States then had no title by the treaty Of
peace. She has since, (viz.' in .1788) declined accept.,
ing a cession of the territory from' Georgia n t be.
cause the United States had already a title, but -be.
cause ihe lands were too remote, &c.
There'is nothing in the constitution of the United
States, which can. give her a title.- By the third'section
of the fourth article the claims of particular- states are
saved.
The public acts since the adoption of the new con.
stitution are the instructions to the commissioners
in- 1793, to settle the boundaries with Spair. The
treaty with Spain, 27th October, 1795. The act -of
congress of 7th April, 1798, vol. 4 p. 90, The act of
1*th of May, 1800. The remonstrance of Georgia,
in December, 1800. -And the cession by Georgia
to the United States in 1802. All these -public acts
recognised the title to be iti.Georgia.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

121

V.
If then Georgia had good title on the 7th of Janua- FLETCHUS
v;K.
is, had the egislature of'
question
next
the
1795,
ry,
thalt state a right to sell.

By the revolution, all the right and royal prero.
gatives devolved upon the people of the.several states,
to be exercised in such manner as they should prescribe,
and by suich governments as they should erect. - The
right of disposing of the lands belonging to the
state naturally devolved upon the lgisiative .body;
who were to enact such laws as should *authorize the
sale and conveyance of them; The.sale its:-*f was not
a legislative act. ,It was not an act of s,.vereignty.,
but a mere conveyance of title. 2 Tuckeri's BI Com.
53. 57. 'Moitesquicu, b. 26.- c. Ia. 2 Dal. 320. 4
Dal. 14. cooper v. Telfaire. Constitution of Georgia,
Art. 1. §16. Digestoqf Georgia Laws of.7th June, 1777,
1780, 1784, 1785, 1788, 1789, and 1790 'These
show the universal practice of Georgia in this respect.
A doubt has been suggested whether this power extends to lands to which the Indian title has not been
extinguished.
What is the Indian title? It is a mere occupancy
for the purpose of. hunting. It is not -like our. te-"
nures; they have no idea of a title to the soil itself. It
isoverrun by them, rather than inhabited. It is not
a true and legal possesion. Vattel, b., 1. § 81.p. 37. and
209, 4..2.

97.

. lhontesquieu, b.

18. C. 12.

Smnith's

Wealth of Nations, b. 5. c. 1. It is a right not to be
transferred but extinguished. It a right regulated by.
treaties, not' by deeds of conveyance., It depends
upon the law of nations,.not upon municipal right.
Although the power to extinguish this right "bv
tieaty, is vested in congress, yet Georgia had a. riglit
to sell subject to the Indian claim. 'he phint has n ver
been decided in the courts of the United States; be.,
cause it has never before been questioned.
The- right has been exercised and recognised by
all the states.
Q
YoL. VL

12
1LUTCHM

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

There *as no objection to the sale arising from
the constitution of Georgia. With regard to state
'constitutions, it is not necessary that the powers should
be e-:-fessly granted, hovyever it may be with the con.
stitutiob of the United States. But it is not constitu.
tional doctrine even as it applies to the legislature of
the United States.
The old articles of confeiteration limited the'powers
of congress to those expressly granted.. But in the
constitution of the United States, the word expressly
was purposely rejected. See the Federalist, and
Yournals of House of Rep. 21st August, 1789. fsour.
nal of Senate, 7th September, 1789.
But if the legislature of Georgia could only .exercise powers expressly given- they had no power to
abrogate the contract.
A question has .been suggrsted from the bench
whether the right vhikh Georgia had before the. extinguishment of the Indian title, is such a right as is susceptible of conveyance,. 'and whether it can be said to
be a title in fee-simple?
The Europeans found the territory in possession of
a rude and uncivilized people, consisting of separate
and independent nations. They had no idea of property in- the soil but a right of occupation. A right
not individual but national. This. is the right gained
by conquest. The Europeans always claimed and ex"ercised the right of conquest over the soil. They
-allowed the former occupants a part, and took to
themsel'es what was not wanted by the. natives. Even
.Peia claimed -under the right of conquest. - He took
Under a'charter from the 'King of England, whose
ight was the right-'of conquest. Hence the feudal
tenures in th.s country. All the treaties with the In'dianswere the effectof conquest. All the extensive grants
,ave been forced from them by.successful war. The
conquerors permitted the conquered tribes to occupy
part of the land until it should be wanted for the use
of %he conquerors. Hence the acts of legislation

FEBRUARY, 1810.

123

fiiing the lines and bounds of the Indian Claims;
hence the- prohibition of individual purchasers, &c.
The rights of governments are allodial. The crown of
Great Britain granted lands to individuals, even while
the Indian claim existed, and there has never been a
question respecting the validity of such grants. When
that claim was extinguished, the grantee was always
admitted to have acquired a complete title. The Indian title is a mere privilege which does not affect the
allodial right.
The legislature of Georgia could not revoke a: grant
once executed. It had no right- to declare the 'law
void; that is the exercise of a judicial, not a legislative
function. It is the province of the judiciary to say
what the law is, or what it was. The legislature can
only say what it shall be.
The legislature was forbidden by the constitution of
the United States to pass any law impairing the obligation of contract.. A grant is a contract execuied,' and
it creates also an implied executory contract, which is,
that the grantee shall continue to enjoy the thing grant.
ed according to the terms of the grani
The validity of a law cannot be questioned because
undue influence may have been used in obtaining it.
However improper it may be, and however severely
the .offenders may be punished, if guilty of bribery,
yet the grossest corruption will not authorize. a judieial tribunal in disregarding the law.
Tlis would open a source of litigation which could
never be closed. The law would be differently decided by different juries; innumerable peiJuries would
be committed, and inconceivable confusion would ensue.
But the parties how before the court are innocent
of the fraud, if dny has been practised. They were
bonafide purchasers, for a valuable considerition, without notice of .fraud. They cannot be affested by it.

FLETC1nn

V.

PECK.

124

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Mliartin, in reply.
All the.western lands of the royal governments were
wholly disanneied from the colonies, and .ieserved for
the use of the Indians., Georgia never had title in
those- lands. It is true that Great Britain did undertake to txttnd the bounds of the royal provinces;
I he right was not denied, but the purpose for which it
was executed'.
Ijy the proclamaii6n, if offenders should escape into
those territories, they are to be arrested by the military
force and sentihto the colony for trial.
In Governor Wright's commission the western
boundary of.the~colony is not drfined. The jury hag
not found whether tht lands were within Goverhor
Wright's rnmnrnmssion.
As to the Indian title.
The royal provinces were not bodies politic for the
.purpose of holding lands. - 1 he title of the lands was'
in the crown. There is nd law authorizing the several states to transfer their right subject to the Indian
title." -It -was only a right of pre-emption which the
crown had.' This right was not by the treaty ceded to
Georgia, but to the United States. The land when purchased of the Indians is to be purchased for the benefit
of the United States. There was only a possibility
thai the United States would purchase for the benefit
of Georgia. But a -mere possibility cannot be sold or
granted.
The declarations and claimi of Gergia could not
affect the rights of the United Sates.
An attemp:t was made in congress to establish the
principle that the land belnged to the United, States;
but the advocates of hat doctrine were overruled by a
inajqrity. This, however, did not decide the question
of right,

FEBRUARY, 1810.

125

The states which advocated that principle did not F-Eicaakt
think proper to refuse to joins the confederacy because
V.
it was not inserted among the artic! s of confederation,
but they protested iag.inst their assent to the union being -taken as evidence, ot their abandonment of the
principle.
Nor is the assent of congress to the commission for
settling the bounds between- South Carolina and -Georgia, evidence of an acknowledgment, on the part of
the United States, that either of-those states was enti-.
tled to those lands.
.March 11, 18Bu,,.
MARSHALL, Cb. J. delivered the opinion of the
court upon the plieadings, as follows:
"

In"this cause there-are demurrers to three ples-filed
in the circuit court, and a special verdict found

-'an

issue joined on the 41b plea. The pleas were all sustained, and. judgment was rendered for the defendant.
To support this judgment, ihis court must concur in
over-ruling all the demurrers;, for, if the plea to any.
one of the counts be bad, the plaintiff below is entitled
to damages on that count.
The covenant, on which the hreach in-the first count
is assigned, is in these words; " that the legislature of
ihe said state,-(Georgia,) at the time of th passing of
the act of'sale atoresaid, had 'gqod right -to sell -and
dispose of the same, in manner pointed out by the said
act."

--

-

-

-

The breach of this covenant is assigned in' ihes.
words; "now the said Fletcher saith that, at the time
when the said act of the legislature of Georgia, entitled an act, &c. was passrd, the said legislatere hd no
authority to selland -dispose of the tenemrnts aforesaid, or of any part thereol, in ihe mianner pointed out
inthe said act."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
SLTCHER"

v.
v'

The plea sets forth the constitution of the state of
Georgia, and avers that the lands lay within that state.
It'ihen sets forth the act of the legislature, and avers
that the lands; described" in the declaration, are included within those to be sola by the said act; and that the
governor was legally empowered to sell and convey the
premises.
To this plea the.plaintiff demurred; and the defendant joined in the demurrer.
If it be admitted that sufficient matter is shown, in
this plea, to have justified the defendant in denying the
breach alleged in the count, it must also be admitted
that he has not denied it. The breach alleged is, that
the legislature had not authority to sell. The bar set
up is, that the gorernor had authority to convey. Certamnly an allegation, that khe principal has nb "right to
give a power, is not denied by alleging that he has given
a proper power to the agent.
It is argued that the plea shows, although it does
not, in terns, aveir, that the legislature had authority
to'convey. The court does not mean to controvert
this position, but its admission would not help the
ease. The matter set forth in the plea, as matter of
inducciment, may be argumentatively good, may warrant an averment which negatives the averment in the
declaration, but does not itself constitute that negative.
Had the plaintiff tendered an issue in fact -upon this
plea, that the governor was legally empowered to sell
and convey the premises, it would have been a departure from his declaration;. for the count to *Which this
plea is intended as a bar alleges no want of authority
in the governor. He was therefore under the necessity of demurring.
. But it is contended that although the plea be sub.
stantially bad, the judgment, ovcrruling the demurrer 7
is correct, because the declaration is defective.
The defect alleged in the declaration is, that the
6

FEBRUARY,- 18

1. "
127

breftch is not assigned in the words of the covenant. FiC.uX
The covenant is, that the legislature had a right to convey, and the breach is, that the legislature had no au- PECK.
thority'to convey.,
It is not necessary that a breach should be assigned
in the very woras of the covenant. It is enough that
the words of the assignment show, miequivocally, a
substantial breach.- The assignment, un'dur consideration does show such a breach, If the legislature had
no authority to convey, it had no right to convey.
It is, therefore, the opinion ot this court, that the
circuit court erred in overruling the demurrer to the
fir~t- plea by the defendant pleaded, and that their
judgment ought therefore to be reversed, and that
judgment on that plea be rendered for the plaintir
After the opinion of the court was delivered, the
parties agreed to amend the pleadings, and the cause
was rontinued for further consideration.
The cause having been again argued at this term,'
March 16, 1810,

MARSHIALL, Ch.

.J. delivered the opinion .f the:

court as follows:

The pleadings being now amended, this cause comes
on again to be heard on sundry demurrers, 'and on a.
.special verdict..
The suit was instituted on several covenants contained in a deed made by John Peck, the defendant

in error, conveying to Robert Fletcher, the plaintiff in
error, certain lands which were part of a large purchase
made by James Gunn' and- others, in the year 1795,
from the state of Georgia, the contract for which was
made in the form of a bill passed by the legislature of
that state.
The first count in the declaration set forth a breach

SUPREME COURT U. -S.
Thp
covenant is, ",that the legislature of the state of Geora
gia, at the- time of passing the act of sale aforesaid,
" had good right to sell and dispose of the same in
manner pointed out by the said act." The breach
assigned is, that the legislature had no power to sell.

'LaTCHR in. the second covenant contained in the deed.

V.

PEc.

The plea in bar sets forth the constitution of the.
state of Georgia, and avers that the lands sold by the
defendant to the plaintiff, were within that state. It
then sets forth the granting act, and avers the power
of the legislature to sell and dispose of the premises
as'pointed out by the act.
To this plea the plaintiff below demurred, and the
defendant joined i demurrer.
That the legislature of Georgia, unless restrained
by its own constitution, possesses the power of dispo.
sing of the unipprcpriated lands within its own limits,
in such manner as its ow'i judgment shall dictate, is a
proposion-not to be controverted. The only question, then, presented by this demurrer, for the consideration of the court, is this, did the then constitution of
the state of Georgia prohibit the legislature to dispose
of the lands, which were the subject of this contract,
in the manner stipulated by the contract ?
The question, whether a law be void for its repu gnancy to.the constitution, is, at all times, a qtuestion
of much delicacyi which ought deldom, if ever, to be
decided in the affirmative, in a doubtful case. The
court, when impelled by duty to render such a judgment, would he unworthy of its station, could it be
unmindful 6f the solemn obligations which that station
imposes. But it is not on slight implication and vagueconjecture. that'the .egialature is to be pronounced to
have transcended its powers, and its acts to be considered as void. The opposition between the constitution and ihe law should be such that the judge feels a
clear and strong conviction of their incompatibility
with each other.
In this case' the court can perceive no such opposition. In the constitution of Georgia, adopted in.the

FEBRUARY, 1810.

.129

year 1789, the court can perceive no restriction on FLEVCARa

the legislative power, which inhibits the passige of the
act* of 1795. The courtcannot say that, in passing'that act, the legislature has transcended its-'powes, and
violated the constitution.,
In overruling the demurrer, therefore, to the 'first
plea, the circuit court committed no error.
The 3d covenant is, that all the title which the state
of Georgia ever had in the premises had been legally
conveyed to John Peck, the grantor.
The 2d count assigns, in substanfce, as a breach of
this covenant, that the original grantees from the state
of Georgia promised and'assured divers members of
,the legislature, then sitting in general assemblyi that
if the said members would assent to, and' vote for, the
passing of the act, and if the said bill should pass,such members shovild have a ahare of, and be interested in, all the lands purchased from the sai'd state by
virtje of such law. And that divefs of the said menibers, to whom the said promises were m-ade, were
unduly influenced thereby, and, 'under such influenre,
did vote for the passing of the said bill; by reasonwhereof the said law was a nullity,- &c. and so the title
of the state of Geogia -did not pass -to the said
Peck, &c.
The plea to this count, after protesting that the promises it alleges were not nade, avers, that until after
the purchase made from the orlginal-grantees by James
Greenleaf, under whom the said Peck claims, -neither
the said James Greenleaf, nor the said Peck, nor any of
the mesne vendors between the said Greenleaf and Peck,
had any notice or knowledge that aiy such prbmises or
assurances were made by the said original grantees, or
either of them, to any of the members of the legislature
of the state of GeorgiA.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred generdally, and the
defendant joined in the demurrer.
R ,
: " "' "
Vol, V I.

lao

SUPREME COURT' U. S.

That corruption should find its way Into the governlrX-Vrcium
V.,
ments of our infant republics, and contaminate the
very source of legislation, or that impure motives
should contribute to the passage of a law, or the
formation of a legislative contract, are circumstances
most deeply to be deplored. How far a court of
justice would, in any case, be competent, on proceedings instituted by'the state itself, to vacate a contract
thus formed, and to annul rights acquired, under that
contract, by third persons having no notice of the improper means by which it was obtained, is a question which the court would approach with much cir.
cumspection. It may well be doubted how far the
,validity of a law depends upon the motives of its
framers, and how far the particular inducements, operating on members of the supreme sovereign'power.
of a state, to the formation of a contract by that power,
a court of justice. If the principle
are examinable inbe conceded, that an act of the supreme sovereign
power might be declared null by a court, in consequence of the means which procured it, still would
there be much difficulty in saying to what extent those
means must be applied to produce this effect. Must
it be direct corruption, or would interest or undue
influence of any kind besufficient ? MVust the vitia.
ting cause operate on a majority, or on what number
of the members? Would the act be null, whatevermight
be the wish of the nation, or would its obligation or
nullity depend upon the public sentiment?
It the majority of the legislature be corrupted, it
may well be doubted, whether it be within the province
of the judiciary to control.their conduct, and, if less
than a majority act from impure motives, the principle
by which judicial interference would be regulated, is
not clearly discerned.
Whatever difficulties this subject might present,
when vierwed under aspects of which it may be sus
Feptible, this court can perceive none in the particular
pleadings now under consideration.
This is not a bill brought by the state of Georgia, to
gnntl the contract, nor does it appear to the court, by

FEBRUARY, 18to.

181

this count, that the state of Georgia is dissatisfied FLM-RC.Al
p Y'
with the sale that has been made. The case, as made
.out in the pleadings, is simply. this., One.individual
who holds lands in the state of Georgia, Under a deed
covenanting that the title of Georgia was in the grant-.

or, brings an action of covenant upon this deed, and
assigns, as a breach, that 'Some of the members of the
legislature were induced to vote in favour-.ofthe-lawi
which constituted the contract, by being promised an
interest in it, and that therefore the act. is a mere
nullity.
This solemi qtestion cannot be brought thus Co1.
laterally and iticidentally bef6re the court. It would
be indecent, in the extreme, upon a private contract,
between two individuals, to enter into an inquiry
respecting the corruption of the sove;erign power of a
state. If the title be.plainly deducd"firom a legisla.
tive act, which the legislature might constitutionally
pass, if the act be clothed with all the requisite forms
of a law, a court, sitting; as a court of law, cannot
sustain a suit brought by one individual against another
founded on the allegation that the act is a nullity, in
consequence of the impure motives which influenced
certain members of the legislature which passed the
law.'

The circuit court, therefore, did right in overruling
.this demurrer.
The 4th -ovenant in the deed isi that the title to
the premaises has been, in no way, constitutionally or
legally impaired by virtue of any subsequent act of
al- "subsequent legislature of the state of-Georgia.
The third count recites the undue means practised
on certain members of the legislature, as stated in the
second count, and then alleges that, in consequence -of
these practices, and of other causes, a subsequent legislature passed ai act annulling and. rescinding the law
under which the conveyance to the origintil grantees
was made, declaring that conveyance void, and asserting the title of the state to the lands it contained. The.

032
FLivTCsa

V.
,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

count proceeds to recite at large, this rescinding act,
and concludes with aveiring thai, by reason of this
act, the title of the said Peck in the premises was constitutionally and legally impaired, and rendered null
and void
After protesting, as before, that no such promises
were made as stated in this count, the defendant agaih
pleads that himself and the first purchaser under the
original grantees, and all intermediat& holders of the
property, were purchasers without notice.
To this plea there is a demurrer and joinder,
The importance and the difficulty of the questions,
presented by these pleadings, are deeply felt by the
court.
The lands in controversy vested absolutely in James
Gunn and others, the original grantees, by the conveyance of' the governo, made in pursuance of antact of
assembly to which the legislature was fully competent.
Being thus" in full possession of the legal estate,
they, for a valuable consideration, conveyed portions
of the land to those who were willing to purchase,
If the original transaction was infected with fraud,
these purchasers did not participate in it, and had no
notice of it. They were innocent. -Yet the legisla'ture of Georgia has involved them in the fate of the
first parties to the transaction, and', if the act be valid,
has annihilated their rights also.
The legislature of Georgia was a party to this trans.
action; and for a party to pronounce its own deed invalid, whatever cause may be assigned for its invalidity,
must be considered as a mere act of power which must
find its vindication in a train of reasoning :not often
heard in courts'of justice.
But the real party, it is said, 'are'the' people, and'
when their agents are u'nfaithful, the acts of those
agents cease to be obligatory.
It is, however, to be recollected that the people can

FEBRUARy, M8iO.

133

act only by these agents, and that, while within the- FFTGE
Y_
powers conferred on them, their acts- musC be considered as the acts of the peoplea If the agents'be cor-.
rupt, others may be chosen, and, if their contracts- be
examiiable, the common sentiment, as well as -com-'
mon usage of mankind, points out a mode by which
this examination may be made, and their validity determined.
If the legislature of Georgia was not bound to sub'•mit its pretensions to those tribunals which are esta-.
blished for the security of property, and to decide on
human rights, if it might claim to itself the -poWer of
judgihg in its own .case,.yet. there are certain great.
principles of justice, whose authority is universally
acknowledged, that ought not to-be entirely disregard.
ed.
If the'legislature be its own.judge in its own case,
it would seem equitable that its decisibn should.be regulated by those rules which would have regulated
the decision of a judicial tribunal.. The question
was, in its nature, a question of title, and the tribunjal
which decided it was either 'acting in' the chary-..
ter of a court of justice, and performing a duty usually
assigned to a court, or it was exerting a mere dct-0f
power in which it was controlled only by its own wil).
If a suit be brought to set aside- a conveyance oh-.
tained by fraud," and the fraud -be clearly proved, the
conveyance will'be set aside, as between the. parties;
but the rights of third- persons,"who, are-purchasers

without notice, for a valuable consideiation, cannot be
disreg aded. Titles, which, according to every -legal
test, are perfect, are acquired with that qptifidence
which is inspired by the opinion that the purchaser is
safe. If there be any concealed defect, arising fromi
the conduct of those Who had held the property long
before he acquired4 it, of-'wbich he had no n6tice, that
concealed defect cafinot be set up against bim., He
has paid'his money for a title good at law, heis inno.cent, whatever may be the guilt of other , and equity
will'not subject him to the perialtieg -attached tiothat
guilt. All titles* would be insecure, and -the'infer.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
?LzTCHFa

V.

course between man and man would b very seriousW
obstructed, if this principle be overturned.
A court of chancery, therefore, had a bill been
brought to set aside the conveyance made te James
Gunn and others, as beipg obtained by.improper prac.ices with the legislature, vhatever might have beit
its decision as respected the, original grantees, would
have been bound, by its own rules, and by the clearest
principles of equity, -to leave unmolested those who
were purchasers, without notice, for a valuable consi
deration.'
If the legislature felt itself absolved from those rules
of property which are common to all the citizens of
the United States, and from those principles of equity
which are acknowledged in all our courts, its act is
to be supported by its power alone, and the same
power may devest any other individual of his lands, if
it shall be the will of the legislature so to exert it.
It is not intended to speak with disrespect of the
legislature of Georgia, or of its acts. Far froln it.
The question is a general question, and is treated as
ne. For although such powerful objections oto a
legislative grant, as are alleged against this, mAy not
again exist; yet the principle, on -which alone this rescinding act is to be supported, may be applied to
every case to which it shall be the will of any legislature to apply it. The principle is this; that a
legislature may, by its own act, devest the vested estate,
of any man ,vhatever, fbr reasons ,which shall, by
.itself, be deemed sufficient.
In this case the legislature may have had ample'
proof that the original grant was obtained by practices
which can never be too much reprobated, arid which
would, have justified its abrogation so far as respected
those to whom crime was imputable.. But the grant,
when issued, conveyed an estate in fee-simple to the
grantee, clothed with all the solemnities which law
can bestow. 'I his estate was transferrable; and those
who ppirchased pgrts of it were not stained by that

PEBRUAJRY, 1816.

.1 5. -

guilt Which infected the original-transaction. Their
case is not distinguishable, from the ordinaiy case of
pdrchasers of - legal esfate without knowledge of any
seciet fraud which- might have led to the-emanation of
the original grant. According -to "'the' well" known.,
course of equity, their rights could not be affected by
such fraud. Their situation was'the same, their. title
was the same', with that of every otheir membei of the
community who holds land 'by regular 'conveyances
from the original patentee.
Is the power of the legislature competent to the
annihilation of such title, and to a resumption of the
property thus held?
The principle asserted is, that' one legislaturp, is
.competent to repeal. any act which a former legjslature
was competent to pass; and that. one legislaturd cannot
abridge the powers of a succeeding legislature.
'The correctness of this principle, so far as respects
general legislationi,. cai never be' controverted. Butj
if an act b done under a law, a succeeding legislature
cannot undo it. The past cannot be recalled by the
most absolute power. Conveyances have been made,
-those conveyances hav.e vested legal estats, and, if
those estates may be seized by the sovereign authority,
qtill, that they originally vested is a fact, and :cannot
ceite to be a fact.
When, then, a lMw is 'in its nature a coptract, when
absblute rights have vested under that contract, a repeal of the law cannot de(,est those rights;. and. the
act-of annulling them, if legitimate, is rendered so by
a power applicable to the case of every individual' i
the community.
It may well be doubted whether the nature of 1ociety and of go~ernment does not presciibe sqme limits
to the legislative"p6wer; and,' if any be prescfibed.
where are they to be found, if the 'property of. an individual, fairly 'and honestly, acquired, may be seized
-without compensation.

FLrTZHMu

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FLETcHER

V.

To the legislature all legislative power is granted,
but the question, whether the act of transferring the
property of an individual to the public, be in the na,ture of the legislative power, is well worthy of serious
reflection.
It is the peculiar province of the legislature to prescribe general rules for the governiment of society; the.
application of those rules to jndividuals in society
would seenm to be the duty of other departmients.
How far the power of 'giving the law' may involve
every other power,-, in cases where the constitution is
silent, never has been, 'and perhaps never can be,
definitely stated.
The validity of this rescinding act, then, might
well be doubted, were Georgia a single sovereign powere But 'Georgia cannot be v'iewed as a single, unconnected, sovereign power, on whose legislature no
other'restrictions are imposed than may be found in its
own constitution. She is a pat of a large empire;
she is..g member of the'American union; and 'that
union has a constitution the supremacy of which all
acknowledge, and which imposes limits to the legislatures of the several states, which none claim a right
to pass. fThe constitution of the United Statel declares that no'state shill pass any bill -of attainder, ex
postfacto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts.
Does the case now under consideration come within
this prohibitory section of the constitution ?
In considering this very interesting question, we
immediately ask ourselves what is a contract? Is a
grant a contract?
A contract is a compact between two or more parties, and is either executory or executed. An executory contract is one in which a party binds himself to
do, or not to do, a particular thing; such was the law
under which the conveyance'was made by the governor. A contract executed' is one in which the object

FEBRUARY, 1810.

137

of" contract. is perlfrtped ; and thi, says Blackstone,
differs in nothing from a grant. The contract between
Georgia and the purchasers was execilted by the grant.
A contract executed, as well as 'on'e wvhich is executory, contains obligations binding on the parties. A
grant, in its own nature, amounts to an extinguishment
of the.right of the grantor, and implies a contract not
to reassert that right. A party is, therefore, always
estopped by his own grant.
Since, then, in fact, a grant is a contract executed,
the obligation of which still continues, and since the
constitutionI uses the general term contract, without
distinguishing between those which are executory and
-those which are executed, it must be construed to comprehend the latter as well as the former. A law, annulling conveyances between individuals, and declaring
that the grantors should stand seised of their former
estates, notwithstanding those grants, would be as repugnant to the constitution hs a lIaw discharging the vendors of property from the obligation of executing their
contracts by conveyances. It would be strange if !
contract to convey was seured by the constitution,
while an absolute conveyance remain~d unprotected.
If, under a fair construction
the constitution,
grants are comprehended under -the term contracts, is
a grant from the state excluded from the operation of
the provision? Is the clause to be considered asinhibiting the state from impairing the obligation of contracts between two individuals, but as exchding from
that infiibition contracts inade with itself?
The words themselves contain no such distinction.
They ate genera.l, and are applicable to contracts of
every description. If contracts made with the state
are to be exempted from their operation, the excep.,
tion must arise from the character of the contracting
party, not from the words which are "employed.
Whatever respect might have been felt for the
statb sovereignties, it is not to be disguised that the
framers of the 'constitution viewed, with some atppfeVol. V I

S

FXTvCHtFR

.

158
.TCHZaR

.

P

SUPREM9 CO'RT
7
x. S.

hension, the- Violent acts whch -might grow out of
the feelings of the moment; and .hat the people of
the United States, in adopting that instrument; have
manifested a determination to thield themselves and
their property from' the 'effects of those sudden and
strong passions to which men 4e ey'posed. The restrictions on the legislative power of the states are ob-.
viously founded in this sentiment; and the constitution
of the United States contains what maybe deemed a
bilf of rights for the people of each state.
No state. shall pass'any bill of attainder, ex postfacto
law, or law impairing the obligaiign of contracts.
A bill of attainder may affect the life" of an individual, or may confiscate his property, or may do both.
In this form the power bf the legislature over th&
livesand fortunes of ihdividtjals is expressly restrained. What motive, then, for implying, in words which
import a general prohibition to impair the obligation of
contracts, an exception in favour of the right.to impair
the obligation of those contracts into which the state
may enter?
The state legi'situres can pass no ex post fact6 Itw.
An ex postfacto law is one which renders an act pu.nishable in a manner in which it was not punishable
when it was committed. Such a law may inflict penalties on the person, or may inflict pecuniary penalties
which swell the public treasury. The, legislature is
then piohibited from passing a law" by which a man's
estate, or any part of it, shall be sei ed for a crime
which was not declared, by some previous law, to render him liable'to that punishment. 'Why, then, should
violence be done to the natural meaning of words for
the purpose of leaving to the legislature the power of
seizing, for public use, the estate of an individual in
the form of a law annulling the title by which he holds
that estpte? The court can percCive no sufficient
grounds for making this ,distinction. This rescinding
act would have the effect of art. ex post facto law. It
forfeits the estate of Fletcher for a crime not committed b7 himself, but by those from whom he purchased.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

139

This cannot be effected in the formof an ex postfacto
law, or bill of attainder; why, then, is it allowable in
the form of a law: annulling the original grant?
The argument in favour of presuming an 'intention
to except a case, not excepted by the words of the constitution, is susceptible of some illustration from a prin.ciple originally ingrafted in that instrument, though no
longer a part of it. The constitution, as passed, gave
the courts of. the 'United States jurisdiction in suits
brought against individual states. A state, then, whichviolated its own contract was suable in the courts of the
United States for that violation. Would it have been
a defence in such a suit to say thAt the state had passed
a law absolving itself from the contract? It is scarcely
to be conceived that such a defence could be set up.
And get, if a state is neither restrained by thb gencral
principles of our political institutions, nor by the words.
of the constitution, from impairing the'obligation of its
own contracts, such a defence would be a valid one.
This feature is no longer found in the constitution; but
it aids in the construction of those clauses with'which
it was originally associated,
It is, theni the unanimous opinion of the court; that,
in this case, the estate having passed into the hands o"
a purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice,
the state of Georgia was restrained, either by general
principles which are common to our free institutions,
.r by the particular provisions of the constitution of
the United States, from passing a law whereby the
estate of the plaintiff in the premises so purchased could
be constitutionally And legally impaired and rendered
null and void.
In overruling the demurrer to the Sd plea, therefore, there is no error.
The first covenant in the deed is, that the state of
Georgia, at the time of the act of the legislature thereof.
entitled as aforesaid, was legally seised in fee of the
soil thereof subject only to the extinguishment of part
of the Indian title thereon-

FLETcniin

V.
PE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Fr.Tr.cR

P-cf,

The 4th.count aasigns, as a breach'of this covenanrt
that the right to the soil was in. the United States,
and not in Georgia.
To this count the defendant pleads, that.the state of
Georgia was seised; and tenders an issue on the fact
in which the plaintiff joins. On this issue a special
verdict is found.
The jury find the giant of Carolina by Charles second to the Earl of Clareindon and others, comprehefid.
ing the whole country from 36 deg. 30 min. north lat.
to 29 deg. north lat., and from the Atlantic to the South
Sea.
They find that the northern part of this territory was
afterwards erected into a separate colony,- and that the
most northern part of the 35 deg. of north lt. was. the
boundary line between North and South Carolina.
That seven of the eight proprietors of the Carolinas
surrendered to George 2d in the year 1729, who ap-.
pointed a Governor of South Carolina.
That, in 1732, George the 2d granted, to the Lord
Viscount Percival and others, seven eighths of the territory between the Savannah and the Alatamaha, and extending west to the South Sea, and that the remaining
eighth part, which was still the property of the heir of
Lord Carteret, one of the original grantees of Carolina,
was afterwards conveyed to them. This territory was
constituted a colony and called Georgia.
That the Governor of Soutlh Carolina continued to
enercise jurisdiction south of Georgia.
That, in 175, the grantees surrendered to-thecrown,
That, -in, 1754, a governor was appointed by the
crbwn, with a commissioni describing the boundaries, of
the colony.

]Chat a treaty of peace was concluded between Gieat

141

FEBRUARY, 1810.

Britairr and Spain, in 1163, in which the latter ceded
to the former Florida, with Fort St. Augwtin and the
bay of Pensacola.
That, in October, 1763, the .King of Great Britain
issued a proclamation; creating four new colonies, Quiebec, East Florida, Vest Florida, and Grenada ; and'
prescribing the bounds of each, and farther declaring
that all the lands between the Alatamaha, and St. Mary's
should be annexed to "Ge'orglg. The same proclamatior containedLa clause reserving, under the dominion
and protection of the crown, for the use-of the Indian4,
all the lands on the western-waters,'and forbidding t
settlemcpt on them, or a purchase of them from the. Indians. The lands conveyed to the -plaintiff lie on the
western waters.
That, in November, 176, a commission was issued
to the Governor of Georgia,'in. which theboundaries
of that province are described, as e xtending westward
to the l ississippi. A commission,.describin'g boundaries of the same extent, was afterwai-ds granted in 1764-.
!That a war broke out between Grent-Britain and
her colonies, which terminated in a treaty of peace,
acknowledging them as- sovereign *and independent
states.
That in April, 1787, a eonvention was entered into
between the states of South Carolina and Georgia settling the boundary line between them.

The jury afterwards describe the situation of the
lands mentioned in the plain tiff's declaration, in-such
manner that their lying whiin-the- limilts of Ge-orgla, isdefined in the proclaniation of -1763, in the treaty- of
peace, and in-the convention,'b tween that state and
South Carolina, has not been lquestioned;
-

The counsel for the plaintiff rest their argument-on
a single proposition. They contend that the reservation for the use of ihe Indiane, contained in the pro-

FLETCKRE.

V.

142
FLETeiam

V.

PEJr.

SUPRLML COURT U. S.

clamation of 1763, excepts the lands on the western

waters ftom the colonies within whose bounds they
would otherwise have been, and that they were acquired
by the revolutionary war. All acquisitions dur'ing the
war, it is contended, were made by the joint arms, for
the joint benefit of the United States, and not for the
benefit of any particular state.
The court does not understand the proclamation as
it is understood by the counsel for the plaintiff. The
reservation for the use of the Indians appears to be a
temporary arrangement suspending, for a time, the settlement of the country reserved, and the powers of
the royal governor within the territory reserved, but
is not conceived to amount to an alteration of the
boundaries of the colony. If the language of the proclamation be, in itself, doubtful, the commissions sub.
sequent thereto, which were given to the governors of
Georgia, entirely remove the doubt.
The question, whether the vacant lands within the
United States became a joint property, or belonged to
the separate states, was a momentous question which,
at one time, threatened to shake the American confederacy to its foundation. This important and dangerous contest has been compromised, and the compromise
is not now to be disturbed.
It is the opinion -of the court, that the particulai
lauid stated in the declaration appears, from this special verdict, to lie within the state of Georgia, and
that the state of Georgia had power to grant it.
Some difficulty was produced by the language of the
covenant, and of the pleadings. It was doubted whether a state c~in be seised in fee of lands, subject to
the Indian title, and whether a decision that they were
seiscd in fee, might not be construed to amount to a
decision that their grantee might maintain an ejectment
for them, notwithstanding that title.
The majority of the court is of opinion that the
nature of the Indian title, which is certainly to be re-

FEBRUARY, isle.

143

spected by all courts, until it be legitimately extin- FL TCHZ
P'v-,:
as toof be
repugnant to
guished,
is not such
the part
thuabsolutely
state.
seisin in fee-on
Judgment affirmed with costs.
JOiHNSON, J. In this case I entertain, on two points,
an opinion different from that which has been delivered
by the court.
I do not hesitate to declare that a state does not'possess the power of revoking its own grants. But I do
it on a general principle, on the reason and nature of
things: a principle which will impose laws.even on
the deity.
A contrary opinion.can only be maintained upon tAe
ground that no existing legislature. can abridge the
powers of those which will succeed it. To a certain
extent this is certainly correct; but the distinctioq lies
betwebn power and interest, the right of jurisdidtion
and the righit of soil.
The right of jurisdiction is essentially connected to,.
or rather identified with,'the *nationalsovereignty. To
- part with it is to commit. i species of political suicide,
In fact, a power to produce itsown annihilation .isar
absurdity in terms. It is a power as. utterly' iniommunicable to a political as to'a natural person. But it
js not so"with the interests or property of a nation.
Its possessions'nationally are in nowise necessary 'to
its poll'ical existence; they are entir ly accidental, and
may be parted with in every respe ct similarly to. those
of, the individuals who .compose the commtinity.

When' the legislature have prce conveyed their late-"
.rest or property in any subject to the individual, they
have lost all control over it; have nothing to act upon;
it has passed from them; is. vested in the individual;
hecomds intimately blended with his existence, as essenfaillv so as the blood that circulates through his syvS
tern. The government may indeed demand of him
the one or the other. not bccause they are not his, but
because' vihatever is his'is his country's.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FLTdIE
V.

As to the idea, that the grants of. a legislature may
-be void because the legislature are corrupt, it appears
The
to me to he subject to insuperable -difficulties.
acts of the supreme power of a country must be conkidered pure for the same reason that all sovereign acts
must be considered just; because there is(no power
that can declare them otherwise. The absurdity in
tfiis
case would have been strikingly perceived, could
the party who passed the act of cession have got again
into power, and declured themselves pure, and the in-

termediate legislature corrupt.
Thesecurity of a people against the misconduct of
their rulers, must lie in the frequent recurrence to first
principles, -and the imposition of adequate constitutional restri.ctions. Nor would it be difficult, with the
same view, for laws to be framied which would bring
the conduct of individuals under the review of adequate tribunals, and make them suffer under the consequences of their own immoral conduct,
I have thrown out these ideas that I may have it
distinctly understooa that my opinita on this point is
not founded on the provision in the constitution of the
United States, relative to laws impairing the obligation
of contracts.- It is much to be regretted that words of
less equivocal, signification, bad. not been adopted in
that article of the constitution'. There is reason to
believe, from the letters of Publius, which are well,
known to be entitled to the highest respect, that the
object of the convention was to afford a general protection to individual rights against the acts of the. state
Whether the words, " acts impairing
legislatures.
the obligation of contracts," can be construed to have
the same force as must have been given to the words
"obligation and efect of contracts,",is the difficulty, in
my mind.
There can be no solid objection to adopting the
technical definition of the word "contract," given by
Blackstode. -The etymology, the classical signification,
an'd the civil law idea of the %,ord, will all- support it.
But the difficulty arises on the wordt "obligation,"

FEBRUARY,-1810.

145

which certainly imports an existing moral or physical
necessity. Now a grant or conveyance by no means
necessarily implies the continuance of an obligation
beyond the moment of executing it. It'is most geneS'ally but the consummation of a contract, is functus
oqfcio the moment it is executed, and continues afterwards to be nothing more than the evidence that a certain act was done.
I enter with great hesitation upon this question, be-cause it involves a subject of the-greatest delicacy and.
much difficulty. The states and the United States
are continually legislating on the subject of contracts,
prescribing the mode of authentication, the time within
Which suits shall be prosecuted for them, in many cases
affecting existing contracts by the laws which they
pass, and declaring them to cease or lose their effect for
want of compliance, in the parties, with such statutory
provisions. Al these acts appear to be within the
most correct limits of. legislative powers, and most be-.
neficially exercised, and certainly could not have been
intended to be affected by this constitutional provision;
yet where to draw the line, or how to define or. limit
the words, "obligation of contracts," will be found a
subject of extreme difficulty.
To. give it the general effect, of a restriction of the
state powers in favour of private rights, is certainly going very far beyond the obvious and necessary import
of the words, and would operate to restrict the states
in the exercise of that right which every community
must exercise, of possessing itself of the property of
the individual, when necessary for public uses; a right
which a magnanimous and just government will never
exercise without amply indemnifying the individual,
and which perhaps amounts. to nothing more than a
power to oblige him to sell and convey; when the pablic
.necessities require it.
The other point on which I dissent from the opinion
of the court, is relative to. the judgment which ought to
be; given"on the first -count..Upon that count we are
Vol. VI.

'1

FLETCHZSJ

P.

P,..

,

146
FLr~nTR

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

called upon substantially to decide, "that the state of
Georgia, at the time of passing the act of cession9
was legally seised in fee bf the soil, (then ceded,)
subject only to the extinguishment of part of the Indian title." That is, that the state of Georgia was seise(J of an estate in fee-simple in' the lands in questioni,
subject to another estate, we kno%, not what, nor Whether it may not swallow up the whole estate decided to
exist in Georgia. .It would seem that the mere
vagucness and uncertainty of this covenant would be
a sufficient objection to deciding in favour of it, but to
me it appears that the tacts in the- case are sufficient to
support the opinion that the state of Georgia had not
afee-simple in the land in question.
This is a question of much delicacy, and more fitted for a diplomatic or legislative than ajudicial inquiry.
But I am called upon to make a decision, ind I must
make it upon technical principles.
The question is, whether it can be correctly predicated of the interest or estate which the state of Georgia
had in these lands, "that the state was seised thereof,
in fee-simple."
To me it appears that the interest of Georgia in
that land amoun ted to nothing, more than a, mere possibility, and that her conveyance thereof could operate
legally only as a covenant to convey or to stand'seised
to a use.
The correctness of 'this opinion will depend upon a
just view of the state of the Indian nations. This
will be found to be very various. Some have totally
extinguished their national fire, and submitted themselves to the laws of the states: others have, by treaty,
acknowledged that they hold their national existence at
the will of the state within which they reside: "others
retain a limited sovereignty, and the absolute proprietorship of their soil.' The latter is the case
of the tribes to the west of Georgia. We legislate upon the conduct of strangers or citizens within
their limits, but innumerable treaties formed with them

FEBRUARY, 1810.

147

acknowledge them to be an independent people, and the FunT'cF
v.
unilorm practice of acknowledging their right of soil,
PscK.
by purchasing from them, and restraining all persons
from encroaching upon their territory, mfikes it unnecessary to insist upon their right of soil. Can, then,
one nation be said to be seised of a fee-simple in lands,
the right of soil of which is in another nation? It is
awkward to apply the technical idea of a fee-simple t6
the interests of a nation, but I must consider an abso.
lute right of soil as an estate to them and their heirs.
A lee-simple estate may be held in reversion, but our
law will not admit the idea of its being limited after a
fee-simple. In fact, if the Indian nations be the absolute proprietors of their soil, no other pation can be
said to have the same interest in it. What, then, practically, is the inttrest of the states in the soil of the
Indians within their boundaries? Unaffected by particular treaties, it is nothing more than what was assumed at the first settlement of the country, to wit, a
right of conquest or of purchase, exclusively of all
competitors within certain defined limits. All the restrictions upon the right of soil in the Indians, amount
only to an exclusion of all competitors from their
markets; and the limitation upon their sovereignty
amounts to the right of governing every person within
their limits except themselves. If the interest in Geor.
gia was nothing more than a pre-emptive right, how
could that be called a fee-simple, which was nothing
more than a power to acquire a fee-simple by purchase, when the proprietors should be pleased to sell?
And if this ever was any thing more than a mere possibility, it certainly yas reduced to that state when the
state of Georgia ceded, to the United States, by the
constitution, both the power of pre-emption and of
conquest, retaining for itself only a resulting right dependent on a purchase or conquest to be made by the
United States.
I have been very unwilling to proceed to the decision of this cause at all. It appears to me to bear
strong evidence, upon ,he face of it, of being a mere
feigned case. It is our duty to decide on the rights,
but not on the speculations of parties. My confi-

R49
WAsSP-

v.

SUPRB= COURT U. S.

dence, however, in the. reapc al'gentl en.who havo
been engaged for the partla, has induceA me to abanSdon my scruples, in the belief that thev would never
consent to imiose a mere feigned c 'me upon this
court.

MASSIE

.

WATTS.

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the circuit

practice
inTheKentucky

to Cal Jury court of the United States, for the district of Ken-

ascertain tucky,_ in a suit in equity brought by Watts, a citizen
facts-eauinof Virginia, against Massie, a citizen of -Kentucky,
the
chancery'
sesis incorrecL to compel the latter to convey to the former 1,000
x suit in
y acres of land in the state of Ohio, the defendant having
chancery
to

obtained the legal titte with notice of the plaintiff's

one ceRS

vreDo'
equitable title.

the

equity against
him who has

The bill stated that the defendao iWMa."sie (the apthe eldest paits pellant) had contracted with a certain FerdinandOneal,
tent
is in
local,
naturc
be to
if itquesandmere
a

for him a military warrant for
locate and
. survey
..

.. 4,000 acres in his name, (which the plaintiff afterwards
a. o ti

valuable ccinsideration,) and to receive
in locating and surveying the same,
the plaintiff paid him. That the
which
501.
of
sum
the
the laud lies.
But if it be defendant locate, the said warrant with the proper
a case of coZ1,ust surveyor, and being himself a surveyor, he.fraudulently
tract ,,r
to be a survey of part of
"
is made a survey purporting
orfraud,
to be triedit in
the entry, bqt variant from the same, and contrary to
the district
where the de- law, whereby the survey was entirely removed from
fendant may the land ehtered with the surveyor, for the fraudulent
must be tri- purchased for a
ed in theds- his .'ervices
where for
trier

be found.

I, by any purpose of giving way to a claim of the defendant's
reagsnable con- which he surveyed on the land entered for the plaintiff,
struction al'an
entry, it can be whereby the plaintiff lost the laud, and the defendant
supported, the obtainedthe legal title. That the land adjoins the town of
worth fifteen dollars an acre. The bill
Court will sup- CLillicothe, and is.
port it.

When

a prays that the defendant may be compelled to convey the

