FEBRUARY, 1810.

81

In the.second case, it is ordered to be certified; that, LxviiwsroX
Wfthe jury should be of opinion that the Spanish pa- MA2. x. Co'
pers, mentioned in this case, were material to the risk,
and that it was not the regular usage of the trade insured to take such papers on board, the non-disclosure of
die fact that they would be on board, v-ould vitiate the
policy; but if. the jury should be of opinion that they.
were not material to the risk, or that it was the regular
usage of the trade to take such papers on boar4; that
they would not vitiate the policy.

HUDSQ.N AND SMITH -. GUESTIER.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Ma- The juriade
ryland; in an action of trover for coffee and logwood, French courts
to seizures,
the cargo of,the brig Sea'Flower, which had been cap- isP not
corifiued
tured by the French, for trading to. the revolted ports to seizures
of the island of Hispanioka, contrary to the ordinances made - within
of
of Francei and carried into the Spanish port of
A seizure, becop, but condemned by a.Frenchtribunal at Guadaloupe, yond
the limits
and sold for the benefit of the captors, and purchased of the territofnat jurisdic..
by the defendant Guestier.
tion, for breach
..-

of a municipal

Upon the former trial of this case in the court be- regulation,

it

by
low, a statement of certain facts was agreed to 6y the warranted
-he lai of nacounsel for the parties, and read in evidenO td the tions.
Whenis therein Cajury, who then found a verdict for the plaintiffs. One versal
of the facts so admitted, and which, was then deemed v,ur ofthe dewholly immaterial by both parties, was, t0.-t the Sea- endan upon a
Flower was captured within one league, of,the coast of tions, a new

which was the trialimurstbea
the islandof Hispaniola. Upon this fact,
f is
dwarded
by tie
only fact which thi case dffered from tht of Rose V c urt below.
.Uirzely, (ante, vol. 4. p. 241.) the supreme court reversed the first judgment of the court below, .(see ante,
",oj. 4. p. 293.) which had been for the plaintiffs, and
remanded the cause for further proceedings.
Upon the second trial in the court below; the verdict
and judgment were for the defendant.
VoL V1.

Na

282
Humyv
GUESTIR,

SUPREME COURT U'. S.

The.plantiffs took d bill of expeptions to the opinion
of the court, who directed the jury "that if they find
from.the evidence produced, that the brig Sea Flower
had traded with the insurgents at Port au Prince, in
the island of St. Domingo, and had there 'purchased a
cargo of.coffee and logwood, and, having cleared at the
said port, and coming from the same, ins-captured by
a FrenCh privateer, duly commissioned as such, within
six leagues of the island of St. Heneague, a dependency of St. Domingo, for a breach of said municipal re°
gulations, that in such case the capture of the Sea Flower
was legal, althoughsuch rapturewas mdde qt the distance
of six leagues from) the said island of St. Domingo,
or St. Heneague, its dependency, and beyond "theterri.
toriallimits or jurisdictionof said island,and that, the
said capture4 possession, subsequent condemnation and
sale of the said Sea Flower, with her cargo, devested
the sqid cargo out of the plaintiffs, and- the property
therein became vested in the purchaser."
Harper,for the plaintiffs in error,
The main question in this case is, whether the French
tribitnal at Guadaloupe had jurisdiction of a seizure,
under the municipal law of St.- Domingo, of a -vessel
seized more than two leagues distant from the coast.
This question was decided by this court in this
cause when it was here before. In the case of Rose v.
.Fimely, (ante, vol. 4. p. 241.) tils court decided; thai
the French tribunal had not jurisdiction because the
seizure was made more than two leagues distance from
the coast; and in this case, (ante, ,ol. 4. p. 293.) this
court decided that the French t'ribunal had jufisdiction
because it appeared by the statement of facts that the
vessel was seized within one league from the coast.
So also the cases of Palmer & Higgins v. Dutilli, and
.tlargous v. The Brig Ceres,'(ante, vol 4. p. 298. in
note,) were remanded for further proceedings,-because
it did not appear whether- the seizure6 in those cases
re made within two leagues of the coast.
P, B. KcYt and 1artin, contra.

A nation has a

TEIRVARY, 18101

283

fight to use all the means necessary to enforce obedience
to its municipal regulations and laws. It has a right to
enforce its municipal laws of trade beyond its territorial
jurisdiction. This right is exercised, both by Great
Briain and America, to enforce their respectire revenue laws. The only limit to this right is the priticiple
that you do not thereby invade the exclusive rights of
other nations. The arretes relative to the trade of
St. Dormingo, do not limit the jurisdiction of theie
tribunals to seizures made within two leagues of the
coast.

Avplso,
GUT.t

The French ordonnanceg, referted torin the sentence
of condemnation, embrace four distinct descriptions of
vessels;
•-, Those found at anchor, &C!.

2. Those clearedfor ports. in possession of 'the re.'
volters.
3, Those coming out of the interdlcted potts, witlior without a cargo; and,
.4. Vessels sailing iti the territoriMl extent of the
island, found within two leagues of the coasto
The distance of two leagues expressed in*the ordonnance, is limited to the ast description, and'does noi
apply to either of the threefirst, It is tantamgunrtto ti
hovering acts of Great Britain and the United States,'
Neither the object nor the policy of the law would admit such a construction. If a vessel had een trading.
with the blacks, she had only to wait for ' fair wind,
slip out of port, and in half an hour be beyond the
line of the jurisdiction.
March 1.
LIVINGSTON, J.' In this case, wfien here befotie, f
dissented from the opinion'of the court, becauise I did
not think that the condemnation of a Fretch court at
Guadaloupe, of a vessel and cargo lying in the port -of'

SUPREME COURT U; S.
DImor
V.
GUuBTziR.

anothernation,had changed the property: but thsground,
which was the only one taken by two of the judges in
this case, and by three, in that of Himely v. Rose, and
was principally and almost solely relied on at bar, was
overruled by a majority of the court, as will appear
by examining those two cases, which were decided the
same day. I am not, therefore, in determining this
cause, as it now, comes up, at liberty to proceed upon
it; and such must have been the opinioir of Judge
Chase, on the trial of. it, who was one of the courS
who had proceeded on that principle.
Considering it, then, as settled that the French tribunal had jurisdiction of property seized under a municipal regulation, within the territorial jurisdiction of
the government of St. Domingo, it only remains for
me to say whether it will make any difference if, as
now appears to have been the case, the vessel were taken on the high seas, or more than two leagues from
the coast. If the res can be proceeded. against when
not in the*possession or under the gontrol of the court,
I am not able to perceive how it can be material ;vhether the capture were made within or beyond the jurisdictional limits of France; or in the exercise of*a belligerent or municipal -right. By a seizure on the high
seas, she interfered with ,the jurisdiction of no other
nation, the authority of each b~ing there concurrent.
It would seem also that, if jurisdiction be at all permitted where the thing is elsewhere, the court exercising it must necessarily decide, and.that ultimately, or
subject only to the review of a superior tribunal of 'its
own state, whether, in the part Jar case,.she had jurisdiction, if any objection be made to it.. And, although
it be now stated, as a reason why we. should examine
whether a jurisdiction was rightfully exercised ovdr
the Sea Flower, that she was captured more than two
leagues at sea, wh6 can say that this very allegation, if
it had been essential, may not have been urged before
the French court, and the fact decided in the negativea
And, if so, why should not its dfecision'be as conDclusive on this as on any other point ? The judge must
have'had a right to diopose of every question which
was mada on behalf of the owner of the property,

FEBRUARY, 1810.

285

whether it related to his own jurisdiction, or arose outi
of the law of nations, or out of the French decrees, or
in any other way: and, even if the reasons of his
judgment should nbt appear sitisfactory, ii 'would be
no reason for a foreign court to review his proceedings,
or not to consider his sentence as conclusie on the
property.

in sot
GaT1z.,
-. ,...

Believing, theref6re, that this property was changed
by its condemnation at Guadaloupe, the original owner
can have no right to pursue it in the hands of any.vendee under that sentence, and the judgment below must,
therefore, be affirmed.
The other judges (except the Chief justice) concur'red.
MARSHA -L, Ch. j"observed, that he had supposed'
that the forner opinion delivered in these'cases upon
this point had been concurred in by four judges. But
in this he was mistaken.

The. opinion was concurred in by one judge. He
was still of opiniodi- that the construction then 'given
was correct.
He understood the expression en sortant, in he ar.
rete, as con.ining the case of vessels coming out, to
vessels taken in the act:of coming out. If itincluded
vessels captured on the return voyage, -he should con.
"
.ur in the opinion now delivered.
However, the principle of that case (Rose v. Himely) ii now overruled.
Judlgment affirmed.*
To zv, J. stated that in the case of Roe v. flimelyt, at February
term, 1808, lie eoncurrediin opinion with Judge Jhn oit.
DlarJperstated that one of the judges ef the court below had doubted
whether, when a case is reversed .upon a bill of exceptions and rouand.
ed, the edurt below-ought to grant a new trial.

-

MARSIAtr.L, Ch.J. "Ifit he upon a special verdict, or cse sreed,
thte court above will proceed to give-judgment. 134t when a verdict
in favour of a plaintiff is reversed, on a bill ofeceptions.to instructions
given to the jury, there must br-2 new :tiq awarded 1y the court b.
low.

