FEBRUARY, 1i810.

183

a resident in a foreign country at the time when her

CAXPSE16L

father was naturalizes.

.

Whatever difficulty might exist as to the construction of the third section of the act of the 29th of Janu.;
ary, 1795; in relation to this point, it is conceived that
the rights of citizenship were clearly confer:red upon
the female appellee by the lourth section of
the act of
the 14th of April,. 180-.
This act declares that the children of persons duly
naturalized under any of the laws of the United States,
beirg under the age of 21 years at the time of their
parent's being so naturalized, shall, if dwelling in
the United States, be considered as citizens (d. the
United States. This is precisely the. case of Mrs.
Gordon. Her father was duly naturalized, at which
time she was an infant; but she came to the United
States before the year 1802, and was at the time when
this law pasped. dwelling within the United States..
It is, therefore, the unanimous opinion of'the court
that, at the time of the death of James Currie, Mrs.
Gotdon was entitled to all the right and privilege of a
citizen; and therefore that there is no error in the detree of the circuit 'court for the district of Virginia,
which is to be afirmed with costs#

M'1KNIGHT IV. CRAIG'S ADMINISTRATOR.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co- In Virina.,
lumbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of debt ant dieftr
upon ajudgment and 4evast=it,brought by M'Kaighlt interlocutory
and
judgment
against Craig, as executor
"cc •" of Mitchell.
a writ Of inquiry twat-led,

• • judgment
After an office
"
by default
against Craig,
.
"
" his
tor,admini:traapon scir

and a writ of inquiry awarded in November 18OT, faei_,earonly
at the rules, Craig
At
July
1808. his plead whateomd
his
• " 'died.
•. "
.. the
•
:. term,• "intestate
death was suggested, and a scirefaciasawarded against ha,, pleaded.

I. G. Ladd, his administrator.

At the July term,

-

SUPR ME.COURT U. S.
1809, (being the 'fpurth term. after thde office judgment,
to plead
and offered
Ladd appeared by his attgrney'
pl"ead
.
" ..to
offrc', and
as
himself,
by
amnizisavit,
plene
of
A special plea
ADM'.'
,administrator of Craig, to which the plaintiff objected,
In all cases, but the court overruled the vhjiction, anid admitted
of reverMa;, if the plea to be filed.M4'kWGU'T.

"

CV.

CRAWcS

this court direct the court'
below to enter
judgment for

-

The substanceof 'the plea was, that Craig haid. made
the pwtiuTf a deed of trust of'certain ieal estate. to secure
Ladd
6
y which
at the bank,
in error, the for his endorsements, for Craig
That
an, 6y
raig ai the
below
court
will, of course, deed *Crnig covenanted -to indemnify',Ladd.

That
enterthejudg- Ladd had endorsed, the notes of.Craig to the amount
dollarswhich were disouited 'at the banl 4
ment witb the of
8,000
costs of that
and continued the endorsemen'ts to the time of Craig's
court.

-

death. That the bank haa recovered judgment against
Ladd as endor.sor of some of 7those notes to the
.amount 6f §,009 dollars, and that Ladd had paid
Qther'of the said notes to the amount of 3,174 dollars., to avoid being compelled by suit to pay the same.
'That the estate, mentioned in the deed 'of trust, having
been sold, produced only 4,095"dollars, whereby the estate
of-Craig became indebted, to Ladd in the sum of 5,138
dolars, and so much of the estate of Craig is liable
to'be retained by"Ladxd 'in satisfaction.
That Craig was bound to several other creditors by
specialties in large sums, amounting to 10,000,dollars,
and suits thereupon have, been brought .against "Ladd
and are now pending; that he has in his hands personal
estate of Craig to the amount of960 dollars only, which
is liable to be retained by him in 'satisfaction' of the
damage h.e has sustained by his endorsements for
Craig, by virtue of the covenant for his indemnification, and to pay the specialty creditors aforesaid.
To -this plea the plaintiff replied the office judg.
ment afid writ of inquiry awyardel against Craig in his
life.time in this suit ; the 'subsequent death of Craig,
aid the $cirefacias against Ladd, is his administratorp
'returnable to W1Pvember -term, 1868.

The defendant rejoined, that Craig died, on the
daj:. of -

5 ii the year 1807-.

PEBRUARY, 1a1.

JL85

To this!rejoind.er the plaintiff demurred, apnd as MTNGET
signed as cause of demurrer, that the rejoinder is no cnAJG'
AI'.
answer to the replication, and is a departure from the
AN t.
plea.
The court below being of opinion that the plea was
good, and the replication bad, rendered. judgment
upon the demurrer for the defendant.
The plaintiff sued out his writ of error.
.9. J7. Lee, for the plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That the office judgment .against Craig in his
life-time, is a debt superior in dignity to the -debts
stated in the plea; and,
2. That the defendant, coming in upon scire judcas,
can only plead such plea as his intestate could hvq
pleaded.
1. The office judgment was regularly obtained
agreeably to the act of assembly of Virginia, P. P.
80. § 36. And according to the forty-second, section
of the same act, it became final after the nest .succeeding court, it not having then been set aside. It being
an action of debt, the judgment was not interlocutory,
but final. 3 B. Com. 395. 1 Tidd, -508. .Being
a final judgment in the life-time of Craig, it is eiltitled
to apriority of payment before specialty debtst
2. But if it was only an interlocutory judgment, yet
the defendant; upon the scirefacias;could plead uothing
but what the intestate could have .pleaded.
220.
The.act of assembly of Virginia, P. P. iw.
is copied almost verbatim'from the English statute qf8
and 9 W. Il.
1.-; and is in these worqs;
"And if the defendant die after such iterlocutory
judgment, and before final judgment,: such action shall
not abate, if the same -were originally maintainable
against the executors or administrators of such defend.
ant, but the 'plaintiff shall and may have a scire facias
Vol. VT.

.Aa

186
,oI"

V.

Anm a.

'vs'

SUPREME COURT U. S.

against his executors or administratorq to -how cause
wh) damages in such action should not be assessed and
recovered by the plaintiff, and-if such.,exccutors or ad.

mmistrators shall appear at. the return of stich writ,
and not show or allege any matters sujicient to arres
the finaljudgment, &c. a writ of inquiry of damages
shall thereupon be awarded, which being executed.
judgment final shall be given for the said plaintiff, &c.
After such interlocutory judgment the intestate could
only allege matter in arrest of judgment, and his administrator can only do the same.
Upon this point the case of Smith v. Harmon, 6
MAod. 142. and I Salh. 315. is decisive.
Swann; contra.
An offce judgment in Virginia is 'a-Very different thing
from an interlocutory judgment in England. It may
be set aside, as a matter of right, by thie defendant at
the next succeeding court, and he may plead any..
matter whaiever in the same manner as if no such
judgment had been rendered, And by the long esta.
blighed practice of Virginia, he may set it aside at any
subsequent term, by pleading an issuable plea to the
is not true, therefore, that Craig could only
merits. 'It
'have alleged matter in arrest ojjudgment. He might
- have -pleaded any thing, that went to show -that the
plaintiff ought not to r~cover judgment against him.
Upon the death of the defendant, and the appearance
of his administrator, it becomes a new suit, and the
adininistraor ought to be permitted to plead any thing
that goes to show that the plaintiff ought not to recovvr judgment against him.
A debt founded upon a devastdvi! is not of so high
dignity as a debt upon specialty., It is in nature of
damages for a tOrtb It is a claimdepending upon
proof of matter of fact in pais.

FEBRUARY,. 18O .

187

February19..
o

.

..

delivered' the' opinion of the
ourt to the following -effect.
MARSAM.L, Cli.

M'K -soiF
v

CRAIGtS

4.DM'k.

The .'act of assembly of Virginia, is copied .almost
literally from theEnglish statute of 8 and 9 . II. c.
11., The case in 6 A1 od. is 'a decision expressly upon
that statute, and is precisely in point, that the defendant upon the scireffacias can only pleitd what -the intestate could have Oleaded; and that it is not to be conof
sidered at'a proceeding agaifist the representative
original ation.
the deceased, but a continuance of the
The plea is such as could not have been pleaded in
the o'riginal action, and is therefore bad.
.eThe judgment must b reverse.d, and the
ronded for, the defendant to plead to me original
action, if he should think proper.*

Lee,. the Chief Justice anTo.a question by E.
swered, that -if the plaintiff in error should obtain a
judgment in the -court below, it Will 'of course be iwith
costs. So in all cases of reversal, if. this court direct
.the court below to entei -judgment for the plaintiff ia
error, the ourt'below will,:of course, enter the judgment witlh the costs of that court.
below considered this case as coming wvittin th e act
'Thecourt
ofongress, vol I.p 71. si'pb.ted 24th September, 1789, wirieh
Authonzes the court "to renderjudgment for or against the execatlor
qZ-adminisrrator;as the case may require." It does-uot alpear whether
tiat act.vas taken into consideration by this court.

KENNEDY ,. BRENT.

ERROR to the circtiit court for the di~ttict of Co- The marshal
lumbia, qitting at Alexandria. in an action' on th- case of the district
iis
by Kennedy against Brent, marshal of the district of y ntu tColill
to serve
d

