R49
WAsSP-

v.

SUPRB= COURT U. S.

dence, however, in the. reapc al'gentl en.who havo
been engaged for the partla, has induceA me to abanSdon my scruples, in the belief that thev would never
consent to imiose a mere feigned c 'me upon this
court.

MASSIE

.

WATTS.

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the circuit

practice
inTheKentucky

to Cal Jury court of the United States, for the district of Ken-

ascertain tucky,_ in a suit in equity brought by Watts, a citizen
facts-eauinof Virginia, against Massie, a citizen of -Kentucky,
the
chancery'
sesis incorrecL to compel the latter to convey to the former 1,000
x suit in
y acres of land in the state of Ohio, the defendant having
chancery
to

obtained the legal titte with notice of the plaintiff's

one ceRS

vreDo'
equitable title.

the

equity against
him who has

The bill stated that the defendao iWMa."sie (the apthe eldest paits pellant) had contracted with a certain FerdinandOneal,
tent
is in
local,
naturc
be to
if itquesandmere
a

for him a military warrant for
locate and
. survey
..

.. 4,000 acres in his name, (which the plaintiff afterwards
a. o ti

valuable ccinsideration,) and to receive
in locating and surveying the same,
the plaintiff paid him. That the
which
501.
of
sum
the
the laud lies.
But if it be defendant locate, the said warrant with the proper
a case of coZ1,ust surveyor, and being himself a surveyor, he.fraudulently
tract ,,r
to be a survey of part of
"
is made a survey purporting
orfraud,
to be triedit in
the entry, bqt variant from the same, and contrary to
the district
where the de- law, whereby the survey was entirely removed from
fendant may the land ehtered with the surveyor, for the fraudulent
must be tri- purchased for a
ed in theds- his .'ervices
where for
trier

be found.

I, by any purpose of giving way to a claim of the defendant's
reagsnable con- which he surveyed on the land entered for the plaintiff,
struction al'an
entry, it can be whereby the plaintiff lost the laud, and the defendant
supported, the obtainedthe legal title. That the land adjoins the town of
worth fifteen dollars an acre. The bill
Court will sup- CLillicothe, and is.
port it.

When

a prays that the defendant may be compelled to convey the

149

PEBRUARY, 18W.

land to the plaintiff, or if that is not in his power, that
•
he make compensation in damages.

MASIT"

V
~WA'TS.

The defendant, by his answer, denied that he con- given quantity
land is to be
tracted with the plaint&to locate and survey the war- of
laid off ona
rant in the name of Oneal, but admits that, in 1787, he given base, it
was 'requested by, W. ElIzey, to locate the warrant shall bincludfor Oneal; that Ellzeyinformed him he was not authori- lines forming
zed to make any special contract with the'defendant for a square, as
his, services, but he had no doubt, if he did the busl- !bc nless mey
ness, he would receive the cust 6 mary compensation, lbrir be rewhich was 121. 10s. per 1,000 acres, .or one third of puant to the
the calls
the lancLIf
l"d

of an entry do
not fully aes.

He admits that he made the entryc,and that the plain- crbe the land,
but
z
enough furnish
to entiff has paid him the 501. But he denies that he made
the survey improjierly, or with a fraudulent intention. able the court
He says that in the year 1793, as a deputy-surveyor, to complete
he surveyed the land on the Scioto, on which the claim the applcation
certain
of Oneal depended; but not wishing to take upon of
will complete
himself the construdtion of Oneal's entry, he merely prlnciples,they
meandered the river, and referred the question to the it.
Ia location
principal surveyor, by 'whose directions he made the have
certain
survey for Oneal in 1796, and without any'instructions material calls
from Oneal or any agent for him. That when the entry sufficient -to
it, and
support
describe
the
was made, the country had.been but recently explored, 9to
other
and none of the locators knew by survey the meanders land,
of the Scioto. He does not admit that the entry has calls less macompatible
the eaten.
becnsurveyed contrary to location, but he surveyed it as with
tial calls of the
he would have. surveyed it for himself
may. be
ihed-ta
*He admits-he made an entry fo himself, and intended entry,
to appropriate the vacant land, but it was nbt by any glar figure is
preserv.
P his,
" that his patent was- prior
, " to Oneal's.
-_ tod,beif possible.
procurement of
That the plaintiff did not become wholly interested in 'If an agent""
locate land for
the claim until long after the survey was made.
After the defendant'A answer came in, the plaintiff
amended his bill by making Anderson (the principal
surveyor) a defendant, and charged that if the survey
for Oneal was made by the directions of Anderson,
as alleged by the defendant Massie, it was with a
fraudulent design on the part of Anderson 'to appro,

himself which
he ought to

locate for his
principal, lie

trust i ip
prnoipal.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ai,&s~si

v.

WATTS.

priate to himself the land described in Oneal's entry,
and that if he had no design, he was still respon5ible
for the consequences of the illeal survey.
Anderson by his answer denies all fraud, and most
positively denies that he gave Massie any instructions to
make the survey, as falsely stated in the bill. I hat the
survey was made of 530 acres, in part of the entry,
which survey'was returned to his (Andcrson'b) offit e,
and which he did not record for about the term of
one year from the time he received it, doubting whether
the survey had been properly made ; but after a critical
examination of the subject he concluded that it was
not improperly riade and recorded it.
The plaintiff amended his bill again by charging
that the defendant Massie was the owner of Powell's
entry, and had surveyed and obtained a.grant therefor,
and calling upon him to answer when he became the
purchaser of Powell's right.
To this Massie answered, that. after surveying
Oneal's entry in the spring 1797, he purchased Robert
Powell's survey, before which time he had no interest
in. the land, and has sold the whole of it, but made a
conveyance of only a part.
There had been certain facts found in the cause
by a jury according to a practice heretofore adopted
in chancery suits in the courts of Kentucky, but the
court ordered ,that the facts found by the jury should
be set aside."
The following opinion of 7udge Innis (Judge
Todd being absent) states the facts of. the cise so
fully that nothing need be added in stating the case.
" The complainant having acquired the equitable
right to certain lands conferred on Ferdinand Oneal
by the state of Virginia, as a bounty for'military
services performed by him as an oflicer during the
revolutiofiary war, has instituted' this suit with a double
aspect, Eirst, to recover one thousand acres of land,
5

FEBRUARY, 18o.

151

which had been entered, for Oneal ,on the Scioto river, MASSIF
V .
who wvas
upon a suggestion that the defindant Massie,
thelocator, had wrongfully deprived h
of the land,WA T
by surveying Robert Powell's entry so as to cover
part of Oned's land, and, by a subsequent entry"and
survey of his own, bath taken the balance. S5econdly,
if thi complainanit shall establish'his right to the land
in contest, and cannot obtain acopveyance therefor,
that the decrde may be for the value thereof, in money. It appears from the pleadings in the cause that
the defendant Massie has purhastd Powell's land,
and that he has appropriated, by entry and survey,
'the adjoining land. I he three following entries were
made upon the Scioto river adjoining each other.
" No. 480; 1787. August 13, Major Thomas Massie
enters 1,400 acres of land beginning at the junction of
Paint cretk with the Scioto, running up the Scioto
520 poles when reduced to a straight line, thence off
at right angles from the general course of the river
so far that a line parallel thereto will include the quan.
tity."
"No. 503. Captain Robert Powell enters one thousand acres of land beginning at 'the upper-corner, on the
.Scioto, of 'Major Thomas Massie's entry. No. 480.
running up the river 520 poles when reduced to a
straight line, thence from the beginning, with Massie's
line so far that a line parallel to the general course of
the river shall include the quantity."
11 No. 509. Captain Ferdinand Oneal enters one
thousand acres beginning at the upper comer on the
Scioto of Robert Powell's entry. No. 503. running up
the river 520 poles when reduced to a straight line, and
from the beginning with Powell's line so far that a line'
parallel with the general course of the river shall include
the quantity." Surveys have been made upon the
entries of Thomas Massie and Robert Powell, so as
to cover almost the whole base of 1,560 poles, the"
space which was allotted for the three claims on the
river, and 530 acres of land have been surveyed for
Oneal, by the defendant Massie in part of his entry,
which it is impossible upon any constraction he can

152
tAI3s1,8
V.

IVAT"S-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

hold. To form a correct opinion in this case the
several -entries of 'Massie, Powell'and Oneal must
be brought into one vieco and, as far as it is possible,
consistent with the' entries, to pscert in the object and"
intention of the locator. It is evident, from the manner in which these entries are worded, that the lo.
sor had no doubt in his mind, at. the time the entries
were made, of having given that space which vvquld
enable him to secure, by legal Aurveys, the.quantity of
land located for each person. It becomes, then, the
duty of the court to consider the case with a reference
to this object. No difficulty arises as to the manner
in which the'entry of Thomas Massie ought to be surveyed, the 'calls of his entry being express idpositive.
His -etryought to have been surveyed in the following
manner ; to begin, as he has done, at the junction of
Paint creek, and the Scioto, and then to run up the.
river so far as will ascertain the termination of the 520
poles called for on the river, when reduced to a straigline. This will reduce .his base to a point below thefirst flooded land represented in the connected plat,
i 3ove the mouth of Paint creek, thence he is to run
cut at rlgfit angles with the general course of the river.
The unexpected bends in the Scioto river have induced
such a construction ,to be placed on the entries of
Powell arid OneaJ b7 the defendant Massie tha4 ii
executing the surveys of Thomas Massie and Powell)
he considered Oneal as being excluded from obtaining
any part of the land upon the base of 1,560 poles2 the
space allotted for three entries.
The contest in this case, in consequence of the
manner which has been prsued in making Massie's
and Powell's surveys, rests principally upon the conto be given to Powells and OneaFl'
struction which, is.
entries ; and, as the latter is dependent on the former,
it be possible to secure to each.
equity requires that, if"
his .portion of land agreeably to their entries, it ought
to-be so decided, provided it can be done consistently
with the spirit of the entries, and the real intention of
the locator.
From an attentive consideration of tlhe entries, the

FEBRUARY, t810.

15S

Object of the locator was evidently to; give to each of
the proprietors of the warrants an -equal-base on the
-river, and make it the ruling principle in shaping the
only remains, then, to becoosidered ivhcsurveys. It.
ther the words in the entries will bear such, a construc-.
tion as to effectuate the object, and secure the lands to
F-owell and 'Oneal, which" th6 locator intended at the
time -he made. tie entries.

MAsSXZ
V..
WATTS.

Powell's first call is to run up the river Scioto; and
the description given., of.the' land contemplhted to be.
covered by the "entry, is 'that -portion which shall lie'
within a litie pirallel to the Kene'r! c61rse of the river.
th-6.
From a'view of the Scioto, river, as laid down. iii
connected plat, aid'the shape whicli Th6mas Massie's
land will assume. wheni run oui igreeably t?,his eht.ry,
it becomes necessary,;ip order to.give Powel the'land
parallel to the general course of the river, to lay it off.
by commencing the survey-on the'river aftie extremity.
of the 520 poles above Maisie, and thence to run out
at-right.angles to.the general -course of the fiver, 'sofa" that a paiallel line to th6 river, extIenling to M'assic's back line, and bihdmg "on Ma,ssie's lines, will.in;lude his one" thousand acres. Reverse ti's mode of'
surveying Powell' entry,, and begin"at Massie's.-uppercorner on the rivei and 'run. out With Massie's line,' it.
-will
make 'Massie's linte thE governing principle. df'.the
sutve,
and not the iverl which cohsructi bri'ilI be
'ohtrary td the" true -meaning expies'ed•-intile entry,
the intention ofthe locato; , and place the survey on the
land of Onal, whose interest, as a su!st'quept locator,
is eqtially entitled to pr6teftion -with that of the prior.
'The i:t.
6 adoptdd- in construing this entry miust justify the:manner-of execifting a survey agreiably theret6
by ruhning'five'lines instead- of four to bir*cumscribe
the land.. This proceeds from an accidfintal circum.
stance occasioned by the great bend immeoiatdy above
-the m0.uth of Paint creek, which renders if necessary to
cumply With thb governing principle in the entry' fr
the land to be "parallel to the. general course' of the
'river." By thus executing Powell's survey, a portion
of lind will ermain on the river, and paialleI" thereto
Yol. VL

U

SUPREME COURT U, S.
.AMEsst sufficient to satisfy Oneal,'the calls of whose entry are
V.

WAr'TS.

similar to Poweli's calling for him as he does for

Massie.

Oneal's suhrey ought, therefore, to have-been enecu,
ted in-the same manner as it is now decided. Poweil'o
ought to have been made by beginning at the termina.
tion of 520 poles on the river, and thence to run off at
right angles from that point.
.Having decided the manner in which the entries of
Massie, Powell, and Oneal .ought to have been surveyed, it remains yet to say what is the situation of the
survey for 530 acres of 'land made for Oneal, and
placecl'on th: record book of the surveyor. To make
this act obligatory on the party it was necessary that
all the acts .done should have been performed or appro.
ved by Oneal himself, or some one of his assignees, or
by some agent authorized for that purpose. There io.
no evidence in the cause to this effect: the placing the
.survey on the "surveyor's book is therefore an unauthorized and void act.
In the case of Wilson and Mason, in the late district
court, the court -decided -that a' survey "once recorded
was no't afterwards in. the power or control of the party,
I his opinion was predicated on two facts found in that
cause, that William Mason was the agent of thedefendant, and approved of what had been done by regis.'
tering the.surveys of Mason although cautioned.of hiG
danger,
Upon this view of the case, the court is of opinionthat the complainant recover of the defendant one
thousand acres of land, to be laid-off agreeably to the
mode pointed oat as the proper manner for surveying
Oneal's entry.
That upon the defendant Massies conveying thb
said one thousand acres of land to the complainant, he,
the cotnpluinant, shall assign to the said defendant all
his right in and-to one thousand acres of the warrant

issued to the said Oneal.

FEBRUARY; M1o.
So fat as this quit relates to the defendant.Anderson,
it is decreed and ordered that the -bill be dismissed as
to him with costs, the court being of opinion he was
improperly made a party. . It is therefore considered
by the court, that the defendant Anderson recover -of
the coniplainant his costs by him in this behalf expended.
And afterwards, at the same term, the following order
was made herein. The court in pursuance of the opihi6n and decree delivered'in this cause on the eighth
day of this month (Decerbber) doth order, that the
surveyor of Ross county do go on the land in controiversy and lay off the same as follows: Thomas Massie's entry by begirining at the mouth of Paint creek,
thence up the Scioto so far as will amount to 520.poles
ivhen reduced to a straight line, and from each end of
this base! at right.angles from the general course so fai
that a line parallel with that general course will produce
the quantity of fourteen hundred acres. Robert Powell's entry by beginning at the upper comer of Thomas
Massie's entry, that is, 520 poles from the mouth of
Paint creek, thetice up the river so far as will amount
to 520 poles when reduced to a straight line, and from
the end of this base line, a line is to be run at right
angles .to .the general course of that portion of the
river which'is- occupied by the base line and fromn the
beginning with the lines of Thomas Massie, that is, his.
second and third lines, so for that a line paraltel to the
general course of this base line will produce the quantity of one thousand acres. Ferdinand Ontal's entry
by beginning at the upper corner of Robert, Powell's
entry- when laid off as aforesaid, thence up the Scioto
so far is will amount to 520 poles when reduced to a
straight line, and from the end of this base line a line
is to be run at right angles from the general course of
that portion of thbe river which is occupied by the base
line, and from the beginning with the second and third
lines of Powell so far that a line parallel td the general
course of the base line will fp.duce the quantiti, of cne
thdusand acret.
And the, court detb further order, that the said sur-

M~isiV.

156
LIASSiE

V.

K

T

SUPREME COURT U. S.

veyor do make and bound the said survey of Oneat
when laid off as aforesaid, and make report of the
metes and bounds and his proceedings herein to the
next court."
At May term, 1808, the surveyor'having made his
report, a final decree- was entered in conformity with
the principles laid down in the interlocutory order,
from which the.defendant appealed. Pope, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the
circuri court in Kentucy, had no jurisdiction of a case
involving the title of land lying in Ohio, unles it be
upon a peronalcontract. Here ias no personal contract. Although the bill states an agreement respecting the surveying of the land, yet it is denied' by the
answer, and not proved. Besides, if there was such a
contract, it is not upon the contract that the suit is
brought. IL is a mere question which of the parties
-has the better right under their several entries.. The
remedy in chancery in Kentucky is merely a substitute.
for a caveat. It is in the nature of a real action, .which
is local. A court in New-York could not try the_ title
of land. in -Virginia, unless it were upon a .personat
contract. Even the action of tresppiss quare caausmnz
fregit is -a. local action, although it sounds in damages,.
audlseems to be'of i personal nature.
P. B. Key,'contra, The bill is for a spec;fiq:peru
formance' .of a. trust. 'The party who has the legal
estate by a younger entry, is a trustee for him who had
the eldei entry; and :upon this is founded the jurisdiction of a court tf' equity. The action ir inpersonam,
not in rem. 'The"remedy sought is, a decree that the
defendant' should convey the~land to the plaintiff. If
the defendant rcfuse to perform the decree, the com.
pulsor" processis inpersqnam, by way of attachmentfor
a contempt of court. The whole 'and original jurisdic0ionof a court of. equity is in personam,.and not in
rem.
Bqttthe act of congress is imperative. -The-circuit
c6urt of Kentucky, has jurisdiction in all cases at-.law
and. in equity betw-eern 6itizens of different states, iL

157

FEBRUARY, 1810.

the defendant be, found in the district of Kentucky.;
The same jurisdiction might. have been exercised by
the siate courts of Kentucky.
H. Clay, same side. The question is; whether the
'nature of the'case controls the: general 'exressiofs of
the constitution, and the act of congress.
If Watts could 'not sue Massie in Kentucky, he
would be without remedy. He could not sue in Ohio.
-because the defendant could not be fbund there.
The round of jurisdiction is trust., The case also
contains the peculiar relation, of the.parties" to--eacl
otier. - Massie was employed by Watts's assignor to
locate the land. In this respect it is a case of contract.
Pope, :in reply. The circuit courts of the United
Statcs. have concur'rent jurisdiction with the courts of
the state in which they sit.
The state courts of Ohio unquestionably had juris-diction. The circuit -court, therefore, of the district
of Ohio is the court of tlit United States which had,
.
-.
cognisance of 'the case.
THE COURT having intimated an opinion in favourof the jurisdiction of the court below, the counsel proceeded to argue the question of location. But as the
subject is very intricate without a bopy of the plats' in
the case, and as the opinion' of the-court is very full,
'it is' deemed 'unnecessary' to report the arguments of
counsel upon that-point.

February28.
MAsRSHAtL,

C...

-

delivered the opinion -of. th-

court as follows:
This suit" having been- originally instituted, in the
.court of Kentucky; for the purpose of obtaining--a
conveyance 'for lands lying in the state of Ohio, ar
objection is madeby the plaintiff in errorixqho was the

MAssI"

W

.

25f8
MjAsuz

V.

SUPREME COURT"AU. S.

defendant below, to the jurigdiction of the court by,
which th6 decree was renacpted.

Taking into vies€ the character of'the suit in chancety brought to establish a prior title originating under
the land law of Virginia against a person claimhing un'der a senior patent, considering it as a substittIte for a
caveat introduced .by the peculiar circumstances attend.'
ing those titles, this court is ot opinion, that there is
much reason -br considering it as a local action, and
-for confining it to the court sitting within the state in
which the lands lie. Was this cause, therefore, to be.
considered as involving a naked question of title, was
it, for ezample, acontest between Watts and Powell,
the jurisdiction of the circuit court of Kentucky would
not be sustained. But Ohere the question changes its
character, where the defendant in the original action
is liable to the plaintiff, either'in consequence of con.
tract, or as trustee, or a,, tie holder of a legal tide
acquired by any species ot mala fides practised on the
plaintiff, the principles of equity give a court juris."
diction wherever the person may be found, and the
circumstancei that a question of. title may be iAvolved
in the inquiry, and may even constitute the esiential
point on which the case depends, does not seem sufficient to arrest that-jurisdiction.
In the .celebrated case .of Penn v. Lord,Baltimore,'
the Chancellor of England decreed a specific performa.
contract respecting lands lying in North
an'e of -it
America. The objection to -the jurisdiction of the
court, in that case, as reported by Vetey, vas not
that the lands lay -without the jurisdiction of the court,
but that, in cases relating to boundaries between provinces, the jurisdictio was exclusively in the king
and. council. 'It is in reference to this objection, not
to an objecton that the lands were without his jurisdiction, that the chancellor says, 6 This court, therefore, has no "original jurisdiction on the direct ques.
tion of the original right of boundaries.?' The reason why it had no original juriddiction on this direct
question was, that the decision on The extart of those
grants, including dominion and poiltical Fower, as well

a

FEBRUARY, 1810.

159

as property, was exclusively reserved to the king in
council.
In a subsequentpart of the opinion, where he treats
of the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, arising from its inability to enforce its. decree in rem, he
allows no.weight to that argument. The strict primary decree of a court of equity is, he says, inleryonam,
and may be enforced in all cases where the person is
within its jurisdiction.-- In confirmation of this position he cites the practice of the courts- to decree respecting lands lying in reland and in the. colonies, if
the person, against whom tne decree was prayed, be
found in England.
In the case of Arglasse v. .Muscharnp, I Venrwn, 75.
the defendant, residig in Engl,.nd, having trauduledtly obtained a rent charge on lands lying in Ireland, a
bill was brought in Engiand to set it aside. To an"ob.
jection made to the jurisdiction of. the coert the chancellor replied, "This is surely only a jest put upon the
jurisdiction of this court by- the comm9rr lawyers; for
when you go about .to bind the lands and grant a sequestration .to execute a decree, then they readily tell
you that the authority of tljib court is only to regulate
a manis conscience, and ought not to affect the estate,
but that this court must agere in personam only; and
when, as in this case, you prosecute the person for a
fraud, they tell you that you must not intermeddle
here, because, the fraud, though committed here,
concerns lands that lie in Ireland, which makes the
jurisdiction local, 'and so wholly elude the jurisdiction
of this court.". The chancellor, in that case, sustained his jurisdiction .on principle, and on the authority of
Archer and Preston, in which case a contract made respecting lands in Ireland, the title to which depended
on the act of settlement," was enforced in England, al.
though the defendant was a resident, of Ireland, and
had only made a casual visit to England. -On a rehearing before Lord Keeper. North this decree was
affirmed.
In the case of The Earlof Kildare v. Sir Morrice

MASS,,

V.
WATTS.

1 160
VAsSZ-

I

.

T.

T

SUPREME COURT V. S,

Eusface and Fitzgerald I Fern. 419. it was deteinilned that if the trustee live in England; the chanqcello.
may etiforce the trust, although the lands .iein' freland

-In the case of Tolei v. Carteret,2"Vern. 494. a bill
wis sustained for the' "foreclosure of a mortgage of
landslying o'utof the jurisdiction of the court the person of the mortgagor being within it.
Subsequent to these decisions was the case of Penn
agaifist Lo d Baltimore, . IVez. 444. in wihich the specific performince of a contract for lands lying ini North
America was decreed in England.
Upon the authority of these cases, ahd of" others
which are to be found in the books, as 'vell as. upon.
• general principles, 'this 'court is"of opinion that, in a
case of fraud, of trust,,or of contract, thejurisdktion
of a court of chancery is sustainable whejeverA .the
person -be- found, although lands not within the juris.
diction of that court maybe affected by the 'decree.
The inquity, therefore,will be, whether this'be an
unmixed. question of tide, or .a case. of fraud, trust or
aontract.
Thefacts in thig case, so far as they affect'the ques.fion of jurisdiction,.are,-that, in 1787, the land ,warrant, of which Watts is-now the.proprietor, and'which
thenbelonged, to, Oneal, was place4 without any spe,cial contract, in -the hands of Massie, as a common locator of lands. In the month of August in the' samue
year he locaied 1,000 acres,*part-o0 this warraint, to adjoin a preVious location made on the same day for'
Robert Powell."
In'the year.1793 Nassie, dis depufy-survevor, surveyed the lands -of Thomas Massie; or which Robert
Powell's entry depended, and the land 6f Robert P owell, on iich OneaPs entry, now the property of Watts,
depended. On-the 27th 6fJiine, 1.795, Nathanil IVMasaie, the pliniff in exror, entered for himself 2"366 acres,

FEBRUARY;

lo8.

161

of land to adjoin the surveys mrade for Robert Powell; .
Thomas Massie and one Daniel Stun. The entry of
Daniel.Stull commences at 'the upper corner ofFerdinand LOneal's entry on the'Scioto, .and the entry of
Ferdinand Oneal commences at the upper corner of
Robert Powell's entry on the Scioto ;'so that the land of
._Oneal would be supposed, from the entrie, to orccupy
the space on the Scioto between" Powell and Stull.
Nathaniel Massie's entry, 'vhici was -made- afte'r sur-"
veing the lands ofThomas Massie aund of Robert-PoW.
ell, binds on thd Scioto; and occupies the whole space
between Powell's su'vey and StuU's .urvey.
In the. year 1796, Nathaniel Massie surveyed 530
acres of Ofneal's entry, chiefly within Stall's survey,
and afterwards,-in the spring'of 1797-, pbichased Poweli's survey. Nathaniel Massie's entry is survexed
and patented.. In 1801 Massie received from Watts,
in money, the customary -compensation for.making 'his
location.
It is alleged that Nathaniel'Massie has acquired for
himself the land which was c6mprehended witin
Oneal's entry, and has surveyed for Oneal land to which.
his entry can by no construction be extended.
If this allegatidn be unsupported by evidence, ther.e
is ati end of the case. If it be supported, had the court
of Kentucky jurisdiction- of the cause?
Althoug4 no expresscontract.be made, yet it'cannot
be doubted that the law implies a contract between:
every man who transacts .business for another at 'the
request of that other and the persdn for whom it is
transacted.. A common locator who undertakes to locate lands.for an absent persdn is bound tQ perform
the usual duties of a locator, and is entitled to tkie cus.
tomary compensation for those duties. If he tails in
the performance of those duties, he is liable to the action of the injured party, which may be -instituted
wherever his person is found. If his ompensation be
refused, he 'maysue therefor in any court within whose
jurisdiction the person for whom the location was made
vai. Vr.

X

MAsstrWTT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MAsstr
V"
Vx

rs.

can be found. In either action the manner in which
the service was performed is ifievitably the subject of
investigalion, and the difficulty of making it cannot out
the court of itsjurisdiction.
From the nature of the busines- and the situation
of the parties, the person for whom the location is
made being generally a non-resident, and almost universally unacquainted with the country in which his
land is placed, it is the duty of the locator not only to
locate the lands, but to show them to the surveyor. He
also necessarily possesses the power to amend or to
change the loction if he has suficient reason to be.
lieve that it is for the interest of his employer so to do.
So far as respects the location he is substituted in the
place of the owner,, and his acts done bona fide are the
acts of the owner.
If, under these circumstances, a locator finding that
the entry he has made cannot be surveyed, instead of
withidrawing it-or amendifig it. so as to render it susceptible of being carried ino execution, secures the
adjoining land for himself, and shows other land, to the
sufveyor which the location cannot be construed to
comprehend, it appears to this court to be a breach of
duty, which amounts to a violation of thd implied contract, and subjects him to the action of the party injured.
If the location be sustainable, and the Iocator, instead of showing the land really covered by the entry,
shows other land, and appropriates to himself the land
actually entered, this appears to the court to be a
species of ma/a ficte which will, ip equity, convert him
into a trustee for the party qriginally entitled. to the
land.
In either case the jurisdiction of tbg court of the
btate in which the person is found, is sustainable.
If we reason by analogy from the distinction between actions local and transitory at common law-,
this action W€ould follow the person, because it would

FEBRUARY, 1810.

6
163'"

be founded on -an implied contract, or on nieglect of

IY.'shIE

duty.
If we.reason from those principles which are jaid
* down -in the books relative to ihe jurisdiction of courts
oof equity, the jurisdiction of the court, of Kentucky
is equall) sustainable, because the defendant, if liable,
is either liable under his contract, or as trustee.
The case, then, as presented to the court, gives it
jurisdiction, and the testimony must be examined to
ascertain how far the bill is supported.
The entry of Thomas Alissi& begins at the-junction
of Paint creekwith the Scioto,.and runs up the Scioto
520 poles, when reduced to a straight line, thence off
at right anghds from the general course Qf the rivei, so
far that a line parallel thereto will include the quan.tityv.
"
-

Respecting this entry there is nof'controversyt
-

Robert Powell enters 1,000 acres of land, "begin-"
ning at the upper ccrner on 1he Scioto, of Majoi Tim'
mas Massie's entry, No.. 48.0. running up the river
520 pOles, when reduced to a straight line, thence from
th%beginning with Massie's line,- so far that a line
parallel with the general course of the river shall in-

clude the quantity."
Then Ferdinand Oneal enters 1,000 acres of land,
.beginning at the upper corner.on the Scioto, of Robert.
Powell's entry, No. 503. running up the river 520
poles,,when reduced to a straight line, ard from the
beginning with Powell's line, so far that a line parallel
with the general course- of the river shall include -the

quantity.
As Oneal's entry depeids on Powell's, it is ne.
cessary to ascertain the lanid taken by Powell, before
that of Oneal can be accurately deterMined.
Had the general course .of the Scioto contineed

"

166
WAssix
W

Vr

SUPREME COURT U. S.

nearly the same, no difficulty would have been found
in this case. The surveys might have conformed literally to all the calls of each entry, and each tract
would have constituted nearly a rectangular figure. with
a base of 520 poles on the river, and a back line parallel to that base. But the unexpected bends of the
Scioto have deranged the uniformity of this chain of
locations, and produced questions of considerable intricacy respecting the ground which must be covered
by them.
Thomas,Massiels entry being .of 1,400 acres, and
Powell's of only 1,000 acres, with a base of the same
length on the river, it probably was thought certain
that Massie's upper line would extend beyond Poweli's land, and that the line of Powell, wh'ich was to
run parallel to the river, would intersect Massies upper line. Powell's entry, therefore, calls to run from
the river with Massie's line, so far that a line parallel
to the general course of the river ,will include the
quantity. Upon actual survey the course of the river
is found to be such that a line parallel thereto, drawn
from the enid of Massie's line, would not include 200
acres of land. Under these circumstances Powell
must lose between 8 and 900 acres of land, if his entry cannot be so construed as to extend beyond the
length of 1%assie's line.
From the peculiar situation of titles acquired under
the land law of Virginia, a law which offered for sale
an immense unexplored wilderness, covered with savages equally fierce and hostile, leaving to the purchaser
the right to place his warrant, which was the evidence
of his purcihase, on any land not previously appropria.
ted, and r, 4uiiing him to make his entries so certainly
that any-other person might locate the adjacent residuum, it followed inevitably that immense difficulties
would occur, and that locations must often be lost, or
receive *thatcertainty which tjh law required from principles adapted to the -general state of things in the
,country, butwihich ere not precisely foreseen when .
the locations were made.

FEBRUARY, -4s1.

165

These principles have- bten laid down by the courts,and must be considered as expositions of the statute.
A great proportion of the landed 'property of 'the
country deptnds on adhering, to them.
The great and eqitable, founhdation on which they
stand is this. , If, by any reasonable construction of
an entry, it can be' supported, the courts will- supprort
it. This principle absolutely requires thdt. all discre.
tion, with respect to the mdde - of surveying an entry,
should be -surrendered. For if a 'lcation, might be
surveyed in various 'vays, then it is vague, 'aid a6
subsequent locator would know how to enter the ada.
cent residuum.. The courf; therefore, is compelled to
say in what manner every location, which appears, in
its terms, to reserve some power in the locator to vary
its form, shall be surveyed.
In the exercise of. this essentiat and necessary
power, they have declared that when a given quantity
of land is to be laid off on a given base, it shall, be in-,
cluded within four lines, so that the lines proceeding
from.the base shall.be.at right angles With- it, and h"
line opposite the base shall be parallel to. it, unless- this
form be repugnant -tor the entry.
The consequence, of this principle is, that if the
calls of an entry do not fully deicribe' the land, but
furnish-enough to -enable the court to complete the'location by the application of certain principles; .- hey
will complete it.
They have also decided'that, if a location have c~r
tain material calls sufficient to support it- and to.de;
scribe the land, other calls less material and incompatible with the esedtiiial calls of -the entry,' may be 'dis-,
carded.
'

These principles, it is beieved, will'enable the court
to ascertain, in a reasonable manner, the lafid covered"
by PowelPs location.
The beginning is the upper comer of 'dassiein

the'

14Asstj
WATTS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
4AssI5

V.

TT

Scioto,.

A base line upon the river is then given to

consist of 520 poles, when reduced to a straight line.
IMassie's upper line, to its whole extent, it necessary,
is also given, and a back line parallel to the base is
given. The sid- line opposite Massie's line, and the
course from the termination of Massie's line to the,
back line are wanting, and aie to be supplied by coanstruction.
The materiaf inquiry, so far as respects the present
cause, is, in what directioh'shall Powell's upper line,
extending back from tht river to the line parallel to the
general course of the river, be run ? Fhat line is not
given, and is, consequently, to be supplied by construetiOn.
According to the uniform course of decisions, Powells upper line must project from the base at right
angles with it, unless there shall be some other call in
the entry which controls this general'principle.
It is
contendcdothat it is controllel by the call to run with
Massie's line from tht beginning. Mas'sie's line not
being at right anigles with the base .line, it is argued
that Powel's 9ppiosite line, Zliscarding the rectangular
principle, must be parallel to the line from the b.egitL.
ning.

But thc court does not concur with "thc counsel for
the plaintiff in error in 'this -opinion. The principle,
that the rectangular- figuie is to be preferred to any
other, and'is to be preserved whenever it can be preserved, originates in the necessity of adopting some
xegular figure in order to give to locations that cer-"
taintv which is not always to be-fbund in their terms,
and in the .superior convenience of that figure over
every otaef, with.- respect to the adjacent residuum.
These motives apply to a part as wel as to the whole of
an entry. If one location be made upon another so
that the lines of that other bind the entry on one side,
and then a precise line be called for from the begin.
nling to run a certain distance, from the end of which
a line is to be drawn, and to continue until a line, parallel to the first or base line, or to some given point in

FEBRUARY, 181O.

167

the lines of the person on whom the location is made,
shAdl include the quantity, the same respect for cer"tainty and convenience which induced originally the
adoption of the rectangular figure would seem to require its- adoption with respect to those lines which did
not receive a different direction from the positive calls
of the location. On one Side there might be several
difft-rent lines; but this would not seem to demand that,
on the opposite side, the same variety' should -be preserved. * It would be- departing from the principle unnecessarily to require that the lincs of the opposite
side of the tract. should be multiplied in order to be all
parallel to the lines by which one side was unavoida.
bly bounded. To the court it-seems that the rectangular principle is always to be preserved where it can
be preserved, that is, where there is no call in the entry
applying to the lines -which control them, and that,
where it is necessarily departed from, the departure
should not be extended. further than the necessity rew
quires.
In this particular case the location does not call for
a line parallel to M assie's line, and, as Massie's line
-was to run at right angles from the general course of
the river, and it was obviously expected PowelPs line
would not extend the whole length of Massie's line,.it
is clear that the locator expected that Powell's upper
line, *vhen at right angles with the course of the. river,
would be nearly parallel to Massie's line,
This may he considered as, in some degree, an auxiliary argument in favour of the'opinion which is entertained, by this couitt that, the circuit court did right in
laying dawn the upper line. of Powell at right angles
with his bas line;
This linp being-established, it is of little importance
to Oneal's claim in what manner the 'remaining linei.
of Powell may.be run.
The call of the location, so far as respects the side
binding on Massie, -is said to stop at Massie's north.
western corner. Is that line to be continued?

MAssIE

V.
WATTS.°

168
WA4aosin

YWATT8.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The conclusive objection to it is, that it would intersect the upper line before the quantity was obtained,
and Would, consequently, entirely defeat the call for a
back line parallel to the course of the river.
Is a' line 'at-right tingles with the general course of
the river to be run from Massie's corner and continued
until a line parallel to, the base line would include the
quantity?
This wyould, be. less exceptionable, but it *irould be
departing further from the square, and might, in some
instances, exhibit a'plat the breadth of which would
not be one third of its' length. This iloint, however,
is not critically examined, because it is of very little
importance in the liresent cause. The upper line of
Powell, on which Oneal, binds, would be the same-its
far as it now runs, and should it be continued further.'
it would only'take a sm.all angle of Oneal's sturvey as
made by order of the circuit court.
The court is of opinion that Pow-eli's e6try is rightly
sW veyed by order of the circuit court, and it is an additional argument in support of this opinion, that, with
the exception of the -angle unavoidably made.by the
interference of Massie, the general form of the land
approaches a- squiare more- nearly than if laid off in
any other manner.
If Powell's entry be correctly surveyed, Oneal's
cannot be laid off otherwise than it is.
I Were it even to be admitted that the original survey
made for Powell was correct, it is entirely possible
that 'the case of the pfainiiff would not be maferially
iimproved thereby.
Pow'ell's back line would' probably terminate on the
river- in which eventthat would be his upper corner
on the Scioto, %Ohichi6. called" for as the beginning of
Oneal's entry. Oneal then calls to run on th, river a
distance of 520 poles on a straight line, and with Powell's line so far as that a line parallel to 'the general

FE11RUARY, 1810.
abufse 6f tlie' river shall include 1,oQOacresi.

Either

this entry is i,6ndered totally incapable of being s'Y.-

vdy~d "if consequence of'the call- for l~owen's lirneo:oi
rhust be so'surveyed as. to-incltfde- afmot. the h e
town f Chilicothe, and-to take _a considerable part Qf
Massie's land.,
It is, however, unnecessary 'to inquire what would
be the rights of'the person claiming Oneal's -entry, ih
that event, since thd court is satisfiea that the" survey,,
as directed by the circuit court, iscorrect.

The case, theb', as made out in evidence, is this..
Nathaniel Massie,. employed- to libcat -a military warrint for Oneal, has entered the warrant.in pursiiance
df his engagemefit. On. surveying the nitries on 'whichthat of On'eal depended, he either elitved thai Oneal'ientry, was void from the -repugnancy of its calls, or ig
not ab'solutely-voidWas incapable of coverin-g the land,
which; according to I6gal construction,'and the ,cblnrot.
ufifderstanding of -those who might read the entries, .it
mnist be considered--as covering.; or he thought'ithat, 3r
obtaining a prior patent for the land, -he, might resist
any claim which might afterwards be made by Oneal,
or those claiming under him. If. Maisie reahly believed that Powells entry -was p'ropely surveyed, -and
that Oneal's- entry,-as. made, could not be surv4ed, it
Was his dnt, to amend it, or, if that was-not ht$ klyt,
to place it el'sewhere. For omitting so 't6.,do" he is
chargeable with such gross neglect of duty asio render
him responsible in -damages, -had. his. consttuction oF

Oneal's location, even- beerr'correct. Bit,-if-in this he
"was-mistaken it would be diangerous in the exttem'er
it*wvould- be"a 6ver-for fraud -which. c'ulO seldoma bq
ropoved-,-if a locator,. alleging difficuliles respecting a,
location, might'withdraw it and take the land for him..
self. le, however, has not withdrawn It, except so
fVias it may be impfi'edl -withdrawai by the surv-y of
530 acres. With that ekcepion, ihetntijystill covers
the land on"whibh it Was orijnally placed, ind is still
entitled to 'that Iaxid.'" ButMasgie,-th6 agent of Oneal,..
has entered and surveyea a portion 6f that land for
himaself, and obtaine'a patent for k1in his own naime.
VOL VL.

Missr=

170
DIAssza
V
WATTS.
A

SUPREME COURT U. S.

According to the cleanest and best establichWe princi.
ples
of equity, the agent who so acts becomes a trustee
for his
principal.

He cannot hold the land under an

Sentry for himself otherwise than as trustee for his
principal.
So far, then, as Oneal's land is withinsMase's survey, Massie is a trustee.for Oneal and his assignees,
and upon 'the principle stated in the earl; part of this
opinion, thi; court of Kentucky had jurisdiction of, the
causeo
But a part of OCn eal's lan6 issurveyed f6r Powell,
and in a contest between his assignees and Powell, the
court of Kentucky would have had fiojurisdiction. This
controversy, however, is not with Powell; it is,
with
'Massie, 'who is the purchaser of Powell's rights. The
whole property being thus in the hands of Massie, and
the court of Kentucky being in possession of the cause,
and, having clear jurisdiction of a part of it which decides the principle on which the whole depends, that
court did right indeciding the whole cause, and decreeing to the assignees Of Oneal the whole land originally
included in the entry made for him.
Considergble doubts- were entertained respecting the
right of Watts to iiore than the unsurve;-ed pArt of
the entry. But a majority of the court. is of opinion
that he stands precisely in the ptace of Oneal.
* As Massie does not show that he had' conveyed any
of that parf of Powell's survey which is included with.
in Oneal's entry previous to the institution of this sun4
or even now, the allegation that he has conveyed a
part .of Powell's survey could hot furnish sufficient
matter for preventing the decree which was rendered.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed with
costs.

