FEBRUARY, 1810.

29

Frmu
debt due from one man to the other,, may well constitute an aggregate sum not. improperly, designated 11, v.
by the term demand, and the receipt may very fairly
be understood to speak of the demand existing
when the credit'shoutd be gien.
If the principles. previously stated be cprrtct,
there is no -evidence in the cause which er ,bles this
court to say that there was -not due, on the judgments obtained- by .Holland- against Cox, -a -sum
more, than equal to thevalue, of .the lands --sold under execution. If so, the plaintiffs have no equity
against the purchasers of those lands, whose conduct appears-tp have been perfectly,:unexceptiona:bh, and the bill' both as to them and Holland, was
pro.perly dismissed.
It i the opinion of the majority of the court,
thatthere is no error in the proceedings of -the -tir'Cult court, and that the decree be affirtned.

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY,WJ,
WOODS.

ERROR to the circuit court, for- the district of -inan actio,.
MaryJand, in an action bf .covenant, upon two poli- upon a polioy
one--upon the schooner William ", poperty
cies of insurance,
Marywarrantneu& Mary, Travers-, -master, -and the other upon her tral, "proof of
rewhich tdbe
cargo, "-from Baltimore to 'Laguird, ith -liberty quired
in tho
United
States
of one, other neighbouring port, and -at.and from
a 'senonly," of
'them,. or either of them, back-to Baltimore." The tence
can"Confess- deination i a
policy c.ontained- the-following clause
ing ourselVes paid. the -consideration .due unto us foreign court
f6r the assurance of the said assured, or-his assigns, poir the
of
after the rate of seven and one-half-per cent. on?. car- ground
go, by. said vessel warranted by. the,-assured to be 'brach sf blot
.Americanproperty, and that the vessel -isan A rerr- connesirive. vi.
of vacainn of.a
intethe. denUecan bottom, proof of which to be- requiredinUnited States only. Insured against all.-risks. the warrant.
-

-

30

SUPREME COURT U. S.

a .:a"
h. (sn. assured binding, himself to do all in his power, in
case of capttift, for, the defence-of the property,
and,. if condemned, that he will edtir ;an appeal'if
Qtacre, whe- practicable. 1 '
zooi.

t er breach of

bl ckade, by a

visel nt war-:

lVp6n the trial of the issue of pon infregit, seven

.bills of exceptions were taken. The first was by

)tlted

Wood, the plaintiff below, in whose favour the judgent sag rendered, and is, therefore, unimportant,
t-a 9rt with- excepting. that it states the facts which each partt
and is referred to in all
to prove,
-evidence
in
athicy, offered-.
,.
" ,
v th intehtt .
..
G, to a ort the thier bills of exceptions.
3rge the
A riratek
s
el

Oh-

,

Istilicy,
wkhiin case
-the

It states, that the plaintiff gave evidence, tharhe
pi ould lie bloc. -was a 'citizen of the United States, and sole' mner
kad ithionof the vessel and ca'go, of the -value insured, and
e

former

Z vessel might made iniurance thereupon, according to the policies.
rpllyil fr That the vessel arrived in -safety off the port of
i est Indies,
to be
L-9wI5
Yb
she unvas
i[oWkaded,

.

Laguira,. 'on -the 29th of March, .but was 'refused
permission to enter the port, except upbn terms, as
to the.sale of his cargo/ which the' master deemed

v arhed ofF a- too -disadvagtage'ous to be accepted.

That he re-

-iecl,
with his vessel
Mirdsig
se o'ff
f the
h port, endeavourinj
ritish to-the
orders mma

,#,April, I OL. t6 .obtain permission to'e Iter it on giore advanbbnd to make fageous terms' until'the' 31 t of MarchN when, findelse- ing that such permission cofild not be obtained, he
'it4,ir
'1lber than or sailed wit the .- essel and carg6. towards the port of
Qie blockading

e

-.

Amsterdam,' in. the island of Curra~oa, with a view
and - iniention of ' ascertaining, .by inquiring froniBritish ships of war, or other ships, or by actual
-inspection, or other proper means, whether the sail
a state of"blockade, and of entering it, port was inif he should find it not blockaded. That about four
montlis before, he had been informed in Baltimo e,
that an American Vessel, bound to that part, had.
been'-waiiid off by'the British blockading -force;
d ieport, which he had heard'in Baltimore before he sailed, that the island was sill blockaded,
" indtced him to. suppose, at the time of sailing towards Amsterdam,'that that port might still be in a
state 6f blockade, (he then bMing ig-norant of that
'fact, and not hetving been able to obtain information
relative thereio'of"LagUira,)and to resolve to make

FEB)RUARY, 1810.
inquiry as aforesaid, before he.attempted to enter, MA..-Is.
v.
the port. That-on the first of April, on his pas.:
sage to Amsterdam, being then about 2B 'or 30
miles distant therefrom, he discovered a ship,- distan't about 21 miles, and immediately changed his
course and stood towards her, for the-, purposeof inquiring whether Amsterdam %Wasstill blockaded.. The ship -was the British: ship of war
" Fortune," and was then supporting alone -the
blockade of'the port of Amsteidam.: ° While stand-,
ing towards her, she seized and captured. 4he
schooner as prize, under pretence of-an 'attempt to'
break the blocka'de, and sent her to Jamaia, whdre
the vessel'and cargo were condemned ai good prize, whereby they were totally lost to the plaintiff. "hat
the distance of Amsterdam from Laguira was about
147 miles, which may be run in fifteen* or .twenty
hours. That the plaintiff, upon the first intelligence'
of the captuie, offered to.abandon,- and demanded
payment of the .oss.
-

That the British minister, on the 12th of April,
1804, informed.the governmet of the-United States,
that-thq siege of' Curraqoa w;as converted 'ihtoa blockade, -Vht1chxliotification - th- -government
of the .United States did not at any time make.
kno*n. That the British goverhnrent -had tssuean order to their commanders, an- to theiir admiralty courts, "in -the West Indies, " not to colnsider blockades. as 'existing, unless in rcspect toparticular. ports which- may be actually invested,
and then not to capture vessels bound to such
ports,.unless they shall have previou'sly been'warned
not to entqr them.". That this order was in force, at
the time of the capture, and had been notified 'the British governmrent to the government of 'the
United States, And inimediately published in. the,'
gazettes of the United States.

:1"hat to the eastward *of Laguiia, on the Spanish
Main,.the'.first -port is New Bar'.lona, at the.distance of about 57 leagues from. Laguira.. That it
is.3 small &rtonlv.entered by- smail vessels. Thai

C-.

32
tAR. Iz. Co

V.

Woons.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

the next port to the eastward of Laguira, on the SpanishMain, is Cumana, at about the distance of. 70
leagues. :That about the time of the voyage aforesaid, no vessel could enter the port of New Barcelona without having obtained permission therefor
at Cumana. That the next port on the Spanish
Main; from Laguira, westward, is Porto Cabello, under the same jurisdiction and at the distance of
about 18 leagues that no vessel could enter, that
port without having obtained permission therefor at
Laguira. -That the next port 6n the Spanish Main,
to the westward of Laguira,is Maracaibo,at the distance of about 93 leagues, and about two and a half
degrees further west from the port of Amsterdam.
Thatthe' usual course of trade forvessels from Baltimore with cargoes for Laguira,assorted for the SpanishMaini is fo proceed to tbe port of Amsterdam, if
refused permission to enter Laguira. That vessels
in such cases never proceed ta Cuniana or New Barcelona. That except Amsterdam, and the said ports on
the Spanish Main. the nearest port to Laguira, used
for the purposes of trade, is in the island of Porto:
Rico,.distant more than 120 leagues. But that Carthdigena, on the Spanish Main, although more distaqt
than Porto Rico, may'be reached from Laguira in a
shorter time, being more in- the course of the winds,
That there is no port in the island of Bonaire,
except a small roadstead'on, the west side of 'the
island, where there is a small battery and military
post. That a vessel bound from Laguira to Amsterdam,. could not touch at the said roadstead
without going about five leagues out of her way,
and being delayed three or' four hours, and that.
there is -no other place in the neighbourhood of
Laguira qr of Amsterdam, except Porto Cabello,
where information cbuld then have been had respecting the continuance of the blockade.
The defendants then offered evidence-to the jury,
that when Travers sailed from Baltimore, and whew
he arrived at.-Laguira, and when he sailed.from
thence and arrived near the island of Curragoa, he
had,reason-to believe, and did know, that that island

FEBRUAR¥Y

181'.

vas actually blockaded and attempted to ethter the
port of Amsterdam. "That when the- insurffne'was
"effected, a vessel might 'enter' Cumana and.Porto
CAiell0 without fi'st 6btainifg permission' elsewhere.
That the "Spanish government was a 1arty-in the.
-w~tr. That it has been usual and customary for vessels sailing from Baltiamre, having cargoes 'SuitAble
to the-markets- bn the Spanish Min, to proceed direct to either of the ports of Cumana, New'BarceIona, Porto Cabello, Maracaibo, 'or Carthagena,
without first calling at Laguira for permission.
Whereupon the plaintiif prayed' the 'direction of
the court to the jury, that it. they believ e the maatters so offered in evidence b6y hnm, then- the proceeding towards the port of Atmsterdam'foi the, puiposes and in the manner so bi' the plaitif!stated
and offered'in evidence, doth not in operation of,. law
deprive him of -his right to recover for'the said
losses under the said policies.
But the court were of opinion, and so directed
the jury, that if*they shall be satisfied from the evidence in thecase, that Traverse the master of the
schooner, had 'reason to believe that -the' islancL of
Cifrra~oa was 'actuall' -bl6ckaded at the-time-when
he sailed .froin'Laguird, and when he dirrihed near
the- said'islab'd, and that, lie attempted to- enter -the
port of -Amsterdiir., then :the plaintiff canno mainfain .the prfs~nt'action. - To 'which 6piiiorr the plaintiff exceptdd.

-

The 2&bill of, excepti6ns stated that the defendants, in addition'to' the' evidence'by them offered as
stated in the first bill of exceptions, gave in eviaenbe thatCaptain Traveis migh have obtained information -at Laguira of the- blockade of Curraq6a,
(it Ieing, well -and' "generallr knbwvn'there,), if' he.
had made -the inqtri-ry; but that: he made no such
'
s 's '
inquiry.
That 'ther
X01l. Yt.

is d -sriunll islandlto thi
P.

swado

A,

TI.

Woo*.

o.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
n..

4onaire, and ibbut 20 miles disiAnt therefrom on the direct and usual route to Curand where Captain Travers -might also have
received information of the blockade, but he' sailed last the island without stopping thereat, or takiug any measures whatever to learn whether the
'blockade existed or not. -That after Travers found
he could not sell his .cargo tc advantage 'at Laguira,
he determinedto proceed to PortoRico, alid as Curraqoa was very little out of the couse, to ascertain
whether the blockade still continued. That on the
12th of April, 1804, the blockade of Curraqoa was
notified by the British minister to our government,
and that there had been no -notification of a discontinuance thereof. That when the schooner left Baltimqre, it was generally reported and understood,
* that Ctrraqoa was blockaded. They also offered in
evidence the record anpA proceedings of the admiralty
court at Jamaica, and that the schooner was con. demned on the ground of an attempt to violate the
blockade.

Co. Curraqoa, called

W6'T)3.

Sraqoa,

Whekeupoii the PLAITZPV offered in evidence all
-the nmatters by him offered in evidence as stated
in.the first bill of exceptions, which bill of exceptions
is 'referred and rpade part of this bill of exceptions,
ana also offered in evidence that the matters by the
defendants stated in this and the foregoing bill of
e~ceptions are untrue; and also" thatTravers, while
lying off Laguira, did inquire whether the blockadet
of Curracoa still continued, and could* 'obtain no
-information on that subject; and also that at the.time
he discovered the ship of 'war, he might -have proceeded to, and. entered into, the port of Amsterdam
without being intercepted by the frigate.
Upon which Aforesaid statement 6f faGts, so given
ifh evidence, the-defendants pray the court to instruct

the jury that the s'aid Travers was not justified in
h4ailing from taguiria and passing 'the island," of
"bonaire.without inquiring there -whether the port
of Amsterdam was blockaded, and that. in -consequence thereof, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.

FEBRUARY, 181.

.5

But. ike court wyere of opinion, that if, the jury MAR. IN. C.
shall.be satisfied, from the"evidence in- the, case; :that WOIDs.
Travers sailed from Laguira for' Amsterdam,. with .., I

intent to enter that port if not actually. blockaded,
but if blockaded not to attempt to efiter, but to -sail
for the island of St. Thomas ; and'if the jury shall
tBe satisfed, fiom the evidence, -that Travers did'not"
pattempt to enter the said port, but was captured on
his way thither, at the distance of 29 'or 30 miles
therefrom, the court directed the jury that such con.ductbf Travers was. not unlawful, and that, notwithstandifig such conduct, the plaintiff ran maintairi the
present action.
The 3d bill of exceptions sftated that the defendants, upon all the matters in the preceding bills of
exceptions contained, 'prayed the court to instruct
the jury that if they believe .that the blockade was
notified by the British government to the American
government, in a reasonable time before Travers
sailed, and that it was generally known in Baltimore before he sailed, and that he had been informed of it, and knew of the general report and
belief, and under these circumstances sailed from Lhguira to the port of Amsterdam, without making
due inquiry, at'Laguira, whether the blockade sub-

sisted at Amsterdam, and passed Bonaire without
making such inqjuiry, 'to the place wheie he was
captured, then fie, was not justifiable in proceeding.
on the said voyage to 'Curraroa, there to make inquiry, not having first made the inquiry in the neighbouring ports of Laguira and Bonaire.
The court refused to give- the instruction as prayed, but repeated the instruction stated in the se-

cond bill of exceptions; to which th defendants
e.tcepted.
The 4th bill of excqptions stated that the defendants prayed the court to'direct .the jury, that if they
shall be of opinion that there are three ports on the
Spanish Main, viz. Port Cabello, i the distance of
21 leagues from Laguira, Maracaibo at 93 leagues

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'MAn. V.
I. Co.

WOODS.
Y185

from Laguira, and about 2 1-2 degrees further west
than Amsterdam, and Carthagena at the distance of
leagues from Laguira to the westward, and that
the prevailing .winds there are generally from the
eastward, and that a voyage may be performedWith more facility from Laguira to .Porto Cabello
than to Curraqoa, and from Laguira to Maracaibo
and Carthagena, than to the island of St. Thomas,
or Porto Rico. That those ports are situated on the
Spanish.Main, and under the government and 'jurisdiction of the King of Spain. That vessels sailing
from the -ports of the United States, are in the
habit of sailing direct to the said ports of Porto
Cabello, Maracaibo, and Carthagena without obtaining permission from the government at Laguira.
That vessels leaving the United States with cargoes
suited to the market *on the Spanish Main, irequently sailed from Laguira, to one or other of the
above-mentioned ports for the disposal of their cargoes,. That the i-land pf Curracoa belongs to the
Dutch government, who were parties to the war.
That there are two other ports on the Spanish Main,
under the Spanish government, lying to windward
of Laguira, viz. Cumana,, 70 leagues, and New,Barcelona, 57 leagues from Laguira, but the voyage
from Laguira to those ports is more difficult. than
the voy:age to- Curraqoa, which is' 147 miles. That
Currvtoa was known to"be blockaded, and so notifird by the British government to'that of the United States -t reasonable time before Travers sailed,
and that he knew the same at the commencement of
the voyage; then Amsterdam was not a portto which
he was entitled to go under the said policy. Which
direction the defendants refused to give. And the
de-fendants excepted.
The 5th exception stated that the defendants prayed the opinion of the court; upon the whole facts
before stated, whether the insured had a right to
proceed to Porto Rico, or Si. Thomas, under the
terms of the policy. That the court directed the jury
that he had no such right, aAd that the defendants excepted. .

ftBRUARV, 1810.

37

The 6th exception stated that the'defendants, upon gAn. Ix.
w o.
to illb1l the matters afaresaid, pryed the court
the insu0struct the jury that'if they belie'vethat
red, after his arrival at Laguira, proceeded on a provisional voyage for the port of Amsterdam, or for
Porto Rico, or for St. Thomas, with an-intentioD3
to go to Amsterdam, if not blockadedi, and to Porto
Rico', or St. Thomas, if th port of Amsterdam was
blockaded, he wasnot.so entitledto do under the policies, and in consequence thereof, that the plaintiff
is not entitled to recover. Which direction the court
refused to give, but gave the following opinion.
The court having declared that the said Travers
had a-right to proceed from Lagujra to Amsterdarg,
as is fully stated in their second opinion, to which they
refer, they directed the jury that if they find that the
said Travers iitended, if the port of Amsterdam was
blockaded, to go to 'the island of Porto Rico, or St.
Thomas, that such his, intention only will no" affect
the policies ; and that notwithstanding such intention the plaintiff can mainitain his action- thereon.
To which direction the defendants excepteda
The 7th bill of exceptions stated that tl e defendants.
upon all the matters in the preceding bills .of exception stated, prayed the opinion of the court that
if h-e jury believe that Travers sailed from Laguira, on a voyage to St. Thomas, or Porto Rico, but
with an intention to proceed a small distance out of
to see if Amsterdam was blockaded, and
the
in cast" it was not blockaded then to enter that port,
and did so proceed to the port of Amsterdam, and
was captured as aforesaid, then the defendants are
not answerable; ,.hich opinion ind direction the court
refused 0. give, but.gave *the following opinion.
-way

The court having declared that the said Travers
had a right to- proceed from Laguira to Amsterdam, as is fully stated in their second.opinion, to which
they refer, they are of-.pinion, and accordingly
directed the jury-, that if they find that the said
Travers intended, if the -port of Amsterdam was

Ip.

SUrREME COURTr U. S.
Aa.hl.

Co. blockaded, to go to the island of Porto Rico, or the'
island
of St. Thomas, such his intention only wift
not
affect
the policies aforesaid, and that notwithstanding such ,intention, the plaintiff can maintain
his actions on the said two policis.,, To'which instruction the defendants exdepted.
The verdict and judgment being in favour of the
plaintiff, the defendants brought-their writ of error.

P B. .Key, for the plaintiffs in error, contended,
1. That the court ought not to have permitted
parol evidence .to be",given of. the intention of

Captain Travers to break the blockade, because the
sentence of condemnation was conclusive evidence
'of that attempt. Curra oa was not a port within)
the policy, because the policy did not give leave tO
sail to a blockaded port.
2..A neighbouring port, means a port on the
Spanish Main, under the same government as
Laguira.
St.' Thomas was not a neighbouring port; if it
was, he deviated in going to Cur.ragoa.
He sailed for Curragoa with a knowledge tit it
was blockaded, and therefore the defendants are discharged.
Earpjr,contra.
The evidenae Is conflicting as to the knowledge of
the captain of the blockade, and therefote upon that
point this court can give no opinion. The only evidence'of such knowledge is, that there was a blockade at a prior period, which had been notified to our

g6vernment. But there is a difference between a
blockade by notification, and a blockade de facto. A:
vessel has a right to go and inquire of the blockading force. The British government had declarc.
that no blockades zhould be considered as eXisting

FEBRUARY, 1810.
in the West Indies, except blockades ae facto, and MAR. IN. 1o.
.
then'not to capture them unless they should have been W OODS"
ireviously warned off. Under this order and declaration of the British government, Travers had a
right to go and see .whether the port was or was not
actually blockaded. This court will not extend the
principle of blockade farther than it has been extended by the British government.
The voyage, then, to Curraqoa, was lawful. Travers was in the due course of the*voyage, and it was,
altogether immaterial whether h6 had any'or what
•ther port eventually in view.
Martin, in reply.
Travers had no right to sail for Curraqoa, knowing it to blockaded. If there be in fact x b lockade,
no yessel knowing that fact has a right to go to th.
blockaded port for inquiry. If she does, she is not,
by the law of nations,.entitled to warning, but is
good prize at once. Ilie hostis est qyu dat auxilium
hostibus. If she sails to a blockaded port, knowim'g
it to be blockaded, she assumes the. hostile character,
an4 is to be treated in all respects like an enemy.
Thi's was a blpckade by notification'as well as de
facto. Our government had express notice, and, all
our citizens areto be presumed to have notice, also.
The British treaty is not in force, but it is a correct exposition of the liw of nations ion the subject
of blockade'. .Fitzsimmonsv. Nezyport Ins, Co. 4
Cranch, 199.
The sentence is conclusive evidence of the, breach
of blockade, notwithstanding the clause in thep6licy
that proof of the property being American is' to be
made here oily; We 4dmit the property was.Ameri-.
Clan-r-we admif"every thing that is, t'o be, proveid
under that clause.. But it was nof agreed that the
question' of breach 'of blockade should be tried here
o 'ly.. If' the clause is to be so construed, it would
place the'in.surinoe companies entirely .inthe power

SUPREM1l

COURT U. S.

3M, i. I'l. Co. of the insured, because all the persons on hoard arm
V.
D
the agents of the assured, and interested to justify
their own conduct.
WOO
I
It is the duty of the insured and his agents to do
nothing to increase the risk, and to do all in his
power to avoid loss; and their negligence, or improper conduct will discharge the underwriters.
Thus in the case of the ship Atlantic, Marshall, 321.
want of a passport at first sailing, although obtained
before capture, and altfiough the capture was not
for want of that paper, yet the underwriters werc
discharged. The insured is answerable for all the
improper conduct of the master if it do not amount
to barratry.
Travers knew that Curragoa was blockaded; at
least he had the strongest grounds of believing it;
and if he was not certain, he ought to have inquired
at Laguira, or -at Bonai'e. This neglect increased
the risk and discharged the underwriters.
Curraqoa was not a neighbouring port within
meaning of the policy. It means 6nly a port on
Spanish Main. General expressions may be
strained by the nature of the case. Thus, in

the
the
rethe

case of IHogg v. Horner, 2 ffirshall, 397. the exDression in a policy on a voyage from Lisbon to
London, " with liberty to touch at any port in Portugal," was construed to mean any port to the northward of Lisbon only.
The fifth exception was taken to the opinion of the
court, to show a reptgiiance between that and -the
opinion stated in the second bill of exceptions; for if
it was unlawful to go to Porto Rico and St. Thomas,
it was equally so to go -to Curragoa.

As to the "Sixth exception to the opinion that the
intention to go to St. Thomas in case Curragoa
should be blockaded did not vitiate the policy.
Thete -mfist, at the commencament of the voyage

FEBRUARY, 1810.

41

,rom Laguira be a certainfixed termnus ad quei.
Oiherwiie the door would le open to fraud upon'the
It
underwriters,- as there. could be no deviation.
ought'tq have been entered in the log-bok-to what
port thef were bound.
Neutralproperty may ,be condemned for violation
of blockade. I Rob. 144. Ship Neptunus. We-admit the property to be American, and ueutra.l, but
this Americata neutral vesseiUaitempted to break the
blockade.
A notified bloc kade is presumed prirl fad'e to
continue until the contrary be notified, or ,the"
blockade be removed defacto. 2 Rob. 9,2, 93. 106
108. 1 Aarsh. 65. 1 Rob. 131. The Columbia,
This vessel, having knowledge of the blockade, was
not entitled to the privilege of: being warned'offo
As to the right to go to Curraqoa to 'inqiuire, he
cited 1 Rob. 280.
Harper, contra.
The case cited of the voyage from Lisbon to London, was a mere question as to the meaning of the
parties. The Pature 'of the .voyage was. called in
aid of' the construction, and it was decided to mean
any portin the cou'se of the voyage.
The clause as to, proof of the -neutrality of -the
property applies to its neutral. character throughout
the whole voyage.
Travers had
blockaded.port
ciplep, prior to.
order there can

a right to proceed towards ne
for inquiry, even upon .British piinthe order of 1804. .But afterth it
be no doubt.

aAlthough there are dicta thata vessel sailing for
a blockaded port knowingly is liable to' be condemned, yet in no -case.is it the direct.and sole
-ground of condemnatioh. In the case of the CbF
'Vol. VI.

IAR. IN.Co.

Worries.

42

SUPREME COURT U. S.

D24,1.ICo. lumbila, the vessel was taken inthe actual attempt
V.
WooDs. to break the blockade. But this doctrine is overruled by the court of.rrors and appeals in NewYork. 1 Caines) Cases i.Error, 8. 1 Caines' N. 2.
. 1 ohhs. 256. Schmidt vo N. 21
Term Rep.
Insurance Company.
In 1 R ob. 280, 281. The Betsy, the limitations-of
the rule. as to sailing for a bi1ekaded port knowingly
are st-ated by Sir William Scott. The distance of
the Place from whence the vessel sails may excuse.
So may also the nature of the blotkade. In the
West'Indies' the blockades. Were so short and uncertain as to form an exception to the general rule. 2
Rob 0 95. The Neptunus. Bqt the British order of
18o is decisive.
Xlartin, in reply.
The B hish order will not bear that coisetucton°
Xt has never receivjed that construction in their
,courts. If it had this vedsel would not have bUen
condemned.
Nothing but the neutralityof. the property isto
be proved ii this country; not that the vessl did
-not conduct herself as a neutral.
The case of Fttzimmons -6.The Newport Insurance Company, was a cae o naked intention,
without an act in pursuance of such, intenion. Sailing,with thA intention ie an act.
.February 16,
TZAX, Ch., J. delivered the following opi MAI
nion' of the couet, viz.

-This'cause comes on upon various exceptions to
opinions delivered by the circuit court of iMryilsd.
The firat ecepfion%having been ttk.cq by the party

FEBRUARY, 181l..

43

who prevailed in the cause, is'passed over without
consideration.~
-The 2d and 3d exceptions arr s~o intimately, connecte4 with each other, that they can scarcely be
discussed separately.
This -action .was brought by, the owners Of the
cargo of the William &. Mary, to -recover from
the Maryland InsuranceCompany the amount of the
policy insuring'the cargo of that vessel. The voyage
insured was " from Baltimore to Laguira,' withi
liberty bf-one.other meighhouring port, and at, and
from them, or either of themr, 'back to Baltimore?"
The cargo was warranted to be American.property,
and the vessel to be an Ame i',mn bottom, ". proof of
ed in the United
which was agreed to bd
States only."
-

Previtts to.the sailing of the William ,& Mary
from'Baltimore, the blockade of Curraqoa-had been
notified to the President of-the United- States, by
the -British go- ernment, and was generally known
in Baltimore, The vessel arrived at Laguira, from
which 'place she sailed for some other port,. was captured within: thirty miles of the port of Amsterdam,in. Curraqoa, then'actually blockaded,.and was con%
demned faran attempt to break -the blockade.
The proof"whYether the Wiljiam. & Mary sailed
from Laguira for Curraqoa, or for St. Thomas's or
Porto Rico, is not positiv ; and the evidence respecting the'information which she sought, or might have
received, at Laguira, respecting the blockade* of
Curragba, is contradictory. On the part of the
plaintiff below, evidence was given that, at Laguira,
information of this fact was sought and could not be
obtained. On- th6 part of the underwriters, evidence was given; that no inquiry respecting'it was
made at Laguira, and. further, that there was a small
island called Bonaire, between Ltiguira and Curraoa;,not much out of the track from the former, place

MAn. tN. Cd.

WOODS.

4SUP)EM

E

COURT U. S-

IAfl.I-I. Co. to the port.of Amsterdam, at which no inquiry"r.

w~obs.

specting the blopkade of Amsterdam was -made.
The counsel for the underwriters prayed the court
to instruxct the jury, that, if they, believed these facts,
the plaintiff could not recover.
This instruction the court refused to give, but did
instruct the ju r " that if they shall be satisfidif
in this case, tiat 'Caotaim Henry Travers, master
of the said schooner, sailed -from Laguira for 1h
port of Amsterdam, in the island .9f Curraqod'withf
intent -to enter the said port, if no.t actually blockaded but, if blockaded, not to attempt to enter, but
to sail for the island of. St. Thomas'e, and, if the jury
should be also satisfie.o. from the said evidbnce, that
'did not- attemp; to enter thb
the said Henry Tra
said port, but was captured on his way to the said.
port, at the distance of 29 or 30 miles therefrom.
the court are of opinion,. and, accordingly directed
the jury, that such.conduct, on the part:of .the said
Henry Travers, wastn6t unlawful, and that, notwithstanding such codduct, the plaintiff can maiut~in'the
present action."
This opinipn and'drectioii of the circuit court
asserts two'principles of law.
1. That the sentence and- condemnati6n of a foreigir court -of admiralty, condemning a vessil as
prize for attempting to enter,-a blockaded port, -is
not conclusive'evideqcb of that fact, in an action on
this policy.

2. That, under the circumstances of the case, the,
sailing from Laguira, and the pAssing Bonaire, with.
out making any inquiry, a t either place, respecting
the blockade of Amsterdam, "were not such acts of
culpable negligence as todischarge the undervriterw
1. Is the sentet1ceof a foreign court of admiralty,
in this case, conclusive e'vidence of the fact it
asserts

FEIBRUARY,, 1810

45

This depends "entirWly ott the cOstructi6n given MRJ1I. Co.
to tie polky. The 4uestion rerciing the conclu- wOODS.
%J
siveness of g, foreign- sentence. was, sonie time past,
much. agitated tbroughoujt the Uniteil St tes, and
was fiiially decided, in this court, in the affirmativePending this cojtroversy, a change was. intro,.uced
in the form of -the policy, at several offices, by iriserting, after the warranty thAi the property was n'eutral, the words, "proof of which to be Tequired in
.
the United States only."
ny the underwriters it. is contended that these
words go to the property only, and not to the- coif.
duct of the vessel. -By the assured it is contended
that they apply to both.
The underwriters insist that-the wor4s themselves
import nQnImore than tht proof respecting the property may be received in the United Siates, ana
that a more exten'ded construction ,is not necessarily to -bhe given to ihem in -consequenbe of their
connection -with the warranty of neutrality, becausea -neutral vessel attempting to enter a blockaded
purt would thereby discharge the underwriters, ab
though':no warranty of neutralityhould. be folaid
in the policy.

-

There is much ;fdrce in this-argument,, and if
the question shall ever- occur on such: a -policy, it.
Swill des.rye serious consideration.. But whatever
might be the la* in such a casethe majdrity of the,
court is of opinion that, under this policy, the sentence of the foreign- court of admirilty is not.con"
tlusive.
The contract'of insurance-is certainly very loosely drawn, and a settled congtruction, different from
the natural import of the words, is given, by the
commercial world,-to many of its stipulations, which
constructjon has been sancti6ned by-.the: decisions.
of courts.. One of -these is on the warranty that
the-vestel is neutral property. It is-not improbable
that,.without such warranty, the attempt of a neu-

SUPRE'Mi COURT U. S.
Ib.
xiAn.V.

Co. tral vessel to enter h blockaded port 'might be don.

WooDd.
=

sidered as dischrging the underwriters. But' no
such decision appears ever to -have been made ; nor
is the principle asserted, so far as is known to the

court, in any of. the numerous tre atises which have

been written, on the subject. On the contrary, the
4jadgments rendered in favour of the, underwriters,

in such cases, have been uniformly founded on the
breach of the warranty of neutrality, whicb, though
in terms extended 'only to the property, has been
carried, by construction, t6 the- conduct of. the vessel. It is universally declared that anti-neutral conduct forfeits the warranty that the vesselis neutral.
€,

This being the -construction put by the pdirties,
and, in consequence thereof, by courts, on the warranty of neutrality,' it is, fair to consider the reservation of the right of .giying prdof in the United
States, which, in direct terms, refers to the whole
warranty, as intended by the parties.to be co-extensive with the warranty itself; and, as the cQnduct of
the 'vessel was,' in Iegal construction, comprehended
in the warranty of her neutrality, that the conduct
of the *essel would, in legal construction, be corm.prehended in the reservation' of a right to, make
proof in the United States'
The majority of the.court, therefore, ig of oinion, that the circuit cohrt did -.not err in submitting the t' st-'mony respecting the itonduct of the
vessel, in this case, to the jury.
2. Are the underwriters' discharged by the conduct of the captain?
This question is susceptible of sev.eral subdivisions.
1. Was the port of Amsterdam, in- Curratoa, -a
neighbouring port, Viithih the policy ?
9. Did the intention to pass Amsterdam, if blockaded, dibcharge the underwriters?

FEBRUARY, .1810.

47

s-- Was an omission to inquire, at Laguira or ATA-1r.-Co.
..
.such
Bondire, respecting the blockade of Amsterdam,
underv.rithe
dis'charge
to
as
a culpable negligence
•.te'rs.?
It is the opinion of the court that the -port of Am,sterdam was a neightodring port within the'poli y.
The"distance butween'the two places is inconsidera'
ble. It is not stipulated tliat the-neighbouring port
shall'be one under th6 Spfni'sh government, noi is it
to be implied from the nature of the case. Indeed,
the' bmmon usage of baltimore, which was given
in evidence, for vessels sailing with c;trgoes assorted
for, the Spanish' Main to and frbn Lagaira to'Cur-.
ragoa, if.refused admittance into the former port,
would be. copclusive on this point, if, in other rjspects, it could be d6ubtful.
Neither was the intention to sail for sone other
port, on the contingency of finding - Amsterdam
blockaded, a deviation.
It is 'admitted thai the voyage fr6m Laguira must
be certain, and that only -a 'certaii'voyage would ,be
within the policy. But the opinion of the circuit
court was founded on -the jury'sbelieving that the
voyage from Laguira was for Amsterdam, a voyage
which the-vessel haq a right -o make, and that the intention to sail to another port, should Amsterdam be
blockaded, constittited no 'deviation while on the:
voyage to Amsterdam.
Certainly ai intentjon not executed, will-not deprive the insured of the benefit of his contract in a
case -iii which he wbuld not have been deprived of it,
had he ekecuted his intention. Had Captain Travers, on the.voyage to Amsterdam, sustained a partialloss, and, aiter entering-thit port, determined -to
go "toPorto Rico, or St. Thomas'g; it is certain that,
after sailing from Amsterdam, the v6yage would havd
been' no longer within the policy, nor would the under-writers have' been ansVerable f6r a sibsequent
l.ssi But 1 could never. be contended, with-any.

48

SUPREM

.COURT U. S.

M,,A. JN. Co -emblance 'of reason, that this dischar~d them from
WOODs.

the los& sustained on the voyage to Amsterdam.
3. The omission of 'the captain to make any'i-.
quiry "respectingthe l4lockade of Amsterdam, at Laguira, or to call, for tat purpose, at' Bonaire, comes
next to be considered..
The notoriety of the blockade of Currayoi," before Captain Travers sailed froin Baltimore, must
affect him, especially as-the instruction given to the
jury is not made dependeht on their believing that
he had no actual knowledge of the fact, Itieems
a reasonable duty, in ordinary ,cases* to make injuiry in the neighbourhood, if information be attainable, respecting the. continuance of a bl6ckade known
previously to exist.
It is true, that upon this point, contradictory evidence -was. given; but the opinion of the court. is
predicated on the jury's believing that Captain Trar
vers made no inquiry at Laguira. The correctness of that-opinion, therefore, depends on its havifig been the duty. of the" captain to, make this inquiry.
In an ordinary blopkdde, this, perhaps, might have
been necessary i but it is cqntended, that blockade.
idf the West Indids were so qualified by the British
government, as, to- have dispensed with this necessity.
It wasproved,'that orders had been .given by that
government, to its cruisers and courts of vice-admuiralty, which orders were communicated to, and
published by, the government ,of-the United States,
"Not to consider blqckad.e, as existing, unless ia
respect to particular .ports which' may be actually.
jn..vested,- and. tlen not. to, capture vessels,:boundto tuch ports, unless ,they- shall have been previouslywarned not to 'enter them.?
- -On the motives for this order, on the policy which

FEBRUARY, 181o.,

49

dictated this mitigation of the general rule, so far MAR. Is. Co
as respected blockades- in the West Indies,, this Wo0.s
court does not possess information which would
efiable it to make any decision, but it appears essentially" to-vary the duty of the masters of neutral
vessels sailing tpwards a port supposed to be blockaded.
The words of the order are not satisfied by any
pretrious notice whikh the Vessel may have obltained,
otherwise than by her being warned off. This is a
technical term which is well ilnders.tood. It is not
satisfidd by notice received in any other manner.The effect'of this'6rder is? that- a vessel cannot be
placed in the situation qfone having a notice of"theblockade until' she- is. warned off. -It gives her aright to iquire of-the blockading squadroni if she
shall not previously receive this warning from one
capable.of giving 'iti and, conseq*'uently, dispenses
with her inaking that inquiry elsewhere. While
this order was in force, a neutral vessel might lawflly sail f6 a blockaded port, knowing it to be
blockaded, and being found sailing towards such
port; would, not constitute an attempt to break the
blockade, until she should be warned off.
There is, then, no error in the opinions to which
the second and third exceptions are taken.:
The 4th *exception is -taken to the refusal of the
court to give an'opinion to thejury, that,- under the
circumstafices stated by the defendants below, the.
port of Curfaqoa was not a neighbouring port within the policy.,
The merts of this opinion have been essentially
discussed in the view taken of the second and third
exceptions, and.fteed not be repeated. The port of
Curragoa is considered as a port within the policy,
and, consequently, the circuit court ought not to have
given the opinion prayed for by the plaintiffs in"
error.
Vo .- I

SUPREME COURT.'U. S.
WAR. IV.

V.

W~ooD,

Co.

The 5th exception presents the extraotdinary case
of an exception to an opinion in' favour of the party
taking it, and, consequently, need not be examiued.
The 6th exception presents a case not essentially

varying from the second and third, and will therefore be passed over without- other observation than
that it is decided in the opinion on those exceptions.
The 7th exception is to a different point. The
counsel for the defendants below prayed the court
to instruct the jury, "1-that if they believed the said
Travers sailed from Laguira on a voyage- to St.
Thomas's, or Porto Rico, but with an intention to
proceed a small distance out of:the way to see if
Amsterdam was blockaded; and in case it was not
.blockaded, then to enter that port, and did so 'proceed to the port of Amsterdam, and was captured
as aforesaid, then the defendants are notanswerable."
This opinioh t e court refused to give, and proceeded to repeat the instruction, to which the second
and third exceptions were takeii.
If St. Thomas's, or Porto Rico, were not neighbouring ports within the. policy,, as id most probably the
fact, then the voyage from Lag~ira'to either of
those places was not insured. If they were neighbouring ports,. so that a voyage to either of them was
within the. policy, then going out of the way to see
whether Amsterdam was blockaded was a deviation,
aid, of consequence, the underwriters are equally
discharged.
The only doubt ever felt on this point, was, whether.
any testimony had been offered to the jury.to establish this fact, which woeld authorize counsel to request the opinion of the court respecting the law.
On examining the record, it appqars that such testipony was offered. It is stated' that
defendants
below offered in evidence, *thatthe captain, on finding he could not be permitted to dispose of his cargo at Laguira, but on terms which amounted to a
total sacrifice of it, " determined to proceed to Porto
-he

.. EBRUARY, 1810,

51

"tlico, and,, as Curraqoa was very little out of the MARI. Co.
v.
the blockde still conti- Woobs.
•,
course, to ascertain whether
nted."
This evidence might be disbelieved by the jury,
but the defendants were certainly entitled to the opinion of the court declaring*its legal operation if believed.
It is the opinion of the court, that, in refusing-tQ
give the opinion prayed in the seventh exception,
the circuit court .erred, for which their judgment
h reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial.

YOUNG v. GRUNDY,

THIS was an appeal from an interlocutory decree No writ ofer.
of tle circuit court of the district of Columbia, div- le torappeal
locutorydecree
solving an injunction.
E. Y. Lee, for the appellant.

dissolving an
injunetion.
If the unswet,
• nor denies the

tf
The. decree dissolves the injunction Withcostsi dlegatios
the bilu,
which is a final -decree as to the costs. 2 Wash. 200. -must
prbe they
ved on the inal
Davenort v. Zifason.
hearing;

but

The material facts of the bill are not denied nor f distion
admitted by the answer ; they are, therefore, to be ofan injuuotioa
to be
the
.
takenareto.
taken as true. The court below must, therefore,
be.
have proceeded on the- ground that the' original Uue.
equity between the maker and payee of the note did
affect the endorsee.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. If the.answer neither adhits
nor denies-the allegations of the bill, they mus.t be
proved upon the final hearing. Upon a question of
dissolution of an injunction they are to be taken to
be true.

But the court has no doubt upon the question.

