FEBRUARY,7181%V. "o

iING v. THE DELAWARE INSURANCE

D

COMPANY.

L

qn sThewheth&r
court for the district of tions
ERROR to- the circuit
....
Pennsylvania, in an action -ofcovenant upon a po iPy the .oyag b...
of insurance upon the freight of the Venus from.Phila- broken up,and"
the
whether
delphia, to the Isle of France.
wan;
o~ptaia
justified in re-

The vessel sailed early in December, 180Y, before turning.

questions

are
o<

the British orders in council, of the preceding Noz. law, and the
Oi
ajury
pon Dy there.
- the 5ndinF
vember were known in the United States. whrr
afternoon of the 16th of January, 1808, while tro. is not to -be
secuting her voyage, she was arrested by the British reraded. by
ship of war Wanderer, by whom she was detained 'rhe'Brish
until the morning of the i8th, when she was restored
e ti th
cil o f ihincoun.
, th eorders
to the captain, her pape- being first endorsed withm of.ebt..
these words, "Ship Venus warned off the 18th of 1so, did not
prohibit ai di.
"January, 1808, by his majesty's ship Wanderer 3''ct
v g
from proceeding to -any port in possession of his fro theni-.
States to
majesty's ented
a colony of
• France., ..
Edwardffedley, 2d Liiwt."
If rom fear,
founded
on
" misrepresentsverbally informed by an officer of tion, the voybe broken
the Isle of France was blockaded age
up, the under-

The captain was
the Wanderer, that
and that the Venus would be a good prize if she pro-hritersarenot
libI.l
ceeded thitbri-.
The captain returned to Philadelphia, where'he was.
disabled from prosecuting his voyage by the embargo.
Considerig the voyage .as broken up .by the ;arrest
and detention of. his vessel by the Wrinderer, he on"
that account abandonedto the underwriters.
. '
These facts were specially found by the jury; Whoalso found that (" by the interrultion, detainment, and
warning off 6f the British force, the voyage of'the
ship Venus was broken up.?'
They also found that the Isle of France -was not

72

SUPREME COURT U. S.

actually blockaded, from the 6th of December, 1Soy,
imG
Vi.
DILL. hr. Co. to the 1st of Februiry, 1808. And that by the information and warning given by the officers of
the
British fleet to the captain of the Venus, he was
fully justified in returning to Philadelphia; and that
by" reason of the embargo she was unable to renew
the voyage.
By the British orders in council of the 11th of November, 1807, as found by the jury., it 'is ordered
" That all the ports and pluces of France and her allies,
or of any other country at war with his majesty, and
all other ports or places in Europe from which, although not at wpr with his majesty, the British flag is
excluded, and all ports or places in the colonies belonging to his majesty s enemies, shall from henceforth be subject to the same restrictions in point of
trade and navigation, with the exceptions herein after
mentioned, as if the same were actually blockaded by
his majesty's naval forces in the most strict and rigorous manner."
" But although his majesty would be fullyjustified,
by the circumstances and considerations above recited1
in establishing such system of restrictio4s with respect to all the countries and colonies of his enemies,
without exception or qualification; yet his majesty,
being nevertheless desirous not to subject neutrals, to
any greater inconvenience than is absolutely inseparable from the 'arrying into effect his majesty's just
determination to counteract the designs.of his enemies, and to retort upon his enemies themselves, the
consequences of their own violence and injustice; and
being yet willing to hope that it may-be possible
(consistently with that o'ject) still to allow to neutrals the opportunity of furnishing themselves with
.produce for their own consumption and supply; and
even to leave open for the present such trade with his
majesty's enemies, as shall be carried on directlv
with tFie ports of his majestv's dominions, or of his
alliesg, ifi the manner herein after mentioned.
His tihajesty is therefore peased rurther to qrder,

FEBRUARY, l-810o

73

.
ahd it is hereby ordered, thatnothing herein .contained
shall extend to subjbct to capture, or condemnation, DEL.Iq. Cn,
any vessel, or the cargo of any vessel, belobging to
any country, not declared by this order to be subjected
to the restrictions incident to a state of blockade
which shall have cleared out with such cargo from:
some port or place of the country to which she be.
longs, (either in Europe or America, or from some
free port in his majesty's colonies, under circumstances in which such trade from sueh free port is
permitted,) direct to some port or place in the colonies of his majesty's enemies, or from those colonies
direct to the country to which such vessel belongs, or
to some free port in his majesty's colonies, in such
.ases and with such articles as it may be lawful to import into such free port; nor to any vessel, or -the
cargo of any vessel, belonging to aiiy country not at
war with his majesty, which shall have cleared out
from some port or place in this kingdom, or from
Gibraltar, or Malta, under such regulations as his
majesty may think fit to prescribe, or from any port
belonging to his majesty's allies, and shall be proceeding direct.to the port specified in her clearance; nor
to any vessel, or the cargo of any vessel, belonging to
any country not at war with his majesty, which shall
be coming from any port or place in Europe which
is declared by this order to be subject to the restric•tions incident to a state of blockade, destined' to some
port or place in Europe belonging to his majesty,'and
which shall be on her voyage direct thereto ; but these
exemptions are not to be understood as exempting.
from capture, or confiscation, any vessel or goods.
which shall be liable thereto in respect of having entered or departed from'any port or place actually
blockaded by his majesty's squadrons or ships of war,
or for being enem'ies' property, or for any other causethan the contravention of this present order."
" And the commanders of his majesty's ships of
war, &c. are hereby instructed to warn every vessel
which shall have commenced her voyage prior to any.
notice of this order, and shall be destined to any port
Vol. VI.

K

71
lxm
V.
)DEL. IN.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

of France, or of her allies, or of any other country
at war with his majesty, or to any port or place from
Co.
which, the British flag as aforesaid is excluded,'or to
any colony belonging to his majesty's enemies, and
whrh shall not have cleared as is herein before allowed, to discontinue her voyage, and to proceed "tQ
some port or place in this kingdom, or to Gibraltar,
or Malta ; and every vessel which, after having been
so warned, or after a reasonable time shall have been
afforded for the arrival of information of this his
majesty's order, at any port or place from which she
sailed, or which, after having notice of thisorder, shall
be found in the prosecution of any voyage contrary to
the restrictions contained in this order, shall be captured, and, together with her cargo, condemned as lawful.prize to the captors."
The Venus returned to the Delaware on the 21st
of February, 1808, and, on the 22d, the following
letter of abandonment was written by Frnuxem and
Clark, the agents of the plaintiff.
Thomas Fitzsimmons, Esq.
Sir,
The ship Venus, Captain King bound from hence
to the Isle of France, having had the register endorsed,
and warned by the British ship Wanderer from
proceeding to her destination, has returned to this,
port ; by which ircumstance her voyage is broken up. We do therefore h'ereby abaIdon to your
office the freight insured by policy of 5th December
last, for 6,000 dollars, on freight out valued at 8,000
dollars.
Yours, "
Vanuxem and Clark.
Thomas Fitzsimmons, Esq.
Pres, Del. his, Co.
The jury further found that the possession was not

FEBRUARY, 181O.

75

Kxw
V.
as prize, but merely tc prevent the Venus'from pro0.
D VL.IN.C
ecuting her voyage to the Isle of France.
Upon this special verdict, judgment, in the court
below , was rendered for'the defendants.
Ingersoll, jun. for.plaintiff in error, contended,
1. That no abandonment at all was necessary in this
case.
2. That the abandonment was sufficient,
8. That this was a loss within the policy.
4. That the justification ofthe captain, from all the
circumstances of the case, was a matter of fact to be
decided by the jury, and that their finding upon that
point was conclusive.
5. If the justification be not a matter of fact for the
jury, yet the facts found by the jury are in law ajustificatiop
1. and 2.. Upon the question of abandonment he
cited 2 Emerig. 174, 175. Marsh. 480. 5th edit.
148. Le Guidon, c. 7. Roccus, in notis. 44. 95. 3
Ath. 195. 1 T. R.' 608. Park, 171. 192. 239.
.Alarsh. 517. 559. 2 Valin, 99. Pothier,n. 128. 1
.7ohns. N. T. Rep. 181. Emerig. 197. 1 T. R.
304., i -illar, 308. 282. 2 Purr. 1209. Park, 143.
5 Bos. & Pull. 310. Lucena v. Crauford.
Upon the 3d, 4th and 5th points, which included
the question of justification of the captain in returning to Philadelphia, he cited 'Doug.'219. Skip Hope.
31arsh. 498. 505. Park, 168. Ship Grace. 8 Bos. .L
Pull.474. Ship Tartar. 3 Caines, 188. 1 Johns. 301.
5 Bos. & Pull. 434. 2 .ohns. 264 1 Rob. 146. Amer.
edit. 1' Camp. 454. Blackenhagen v. Lohdon Assurance
Company. And the case of Dwderer v. Delaware Insurance Company, in the circuit court for the district
of Pennsylvania, in April, 1807, to show that the usti-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Z'1o
]

fication of the captain was matter of fact to be left tv

IN. C6. the jury.
And to show that in point of law the captain was
jus.tified in returning, he cited 2 Burr. 696. Goss v.
Withers. 11arsh. 486. Roccus, not. 64. 4 Cranch, 29.
Rhinelander v. Penh. In. Co.
That the abandonment was sufficient, and related
back to the time of arrest, when the loss was total. I
Emeriog. 440. AfParsh. 519. 4 Cranch, 202. ilfarshall
v. Del. In. ( o. which case has been confirmed in England in B. R. 10 East, 329. Bainbridg-e v. Nielson. 2
Yahn, 123. 1 Emerig. 537, 538. H11arsh. 434. 3 Rob.
180F. The Hiram. 2 Johns. 336. 352. Scott v. Libby.
and Barker v. (Jheviott. 1 Bos. & Pull. 634. Gurling
v. Long. 7 T. R. 381. Cook v. Jennings. Doug. 219.
41 illes v. Fletcher. 1 Salk. 198. Brewster v. .Kitchell.I
.Zmerig.c. 12. § 31. p. 542, 543, 544. Case of the Colomb. Roccus, not. 63. 1 Johns. 301. 4 Dal.417. Symond& v. Union In. Co. 9 East, 283. Bcsher v. Blakes.
I Emerig. 508. - I Johns. 249. Schmidt v. United
In. Co. 1 Bos. & Pull. 200. Driscolv. Bovil. 1 Bos.
& Pull. 213. Driscolv. Passmore.
.8inney and Hophinson, contra.
The assured at the time of abandonment must state
4 good. cause of abandonment. The only causes assigned by the plaintiff are those stated in the special
merdict, none of which-are sufficient.
The special verdict finds matters of law which
auzLt. not to have been submitted to the jury, viz.
that the voyage was broken up, and that the captain
was justified in returning. He wis opposed by no
physical or legal impediment. The jury have .found
that.the arrest was not as prize, but onl, to prevent
the prosecution of the voyage. The exemption from
the general operation of the orders in council of the
11th of November; embraces the'case of* a vessel
sailing from a neutral port direct to an enemey's colony. .he words are -. Nothing herein contained shall

.FEBRUARY, 181o.
KiNc
,!xtend to subject to capture or condemnation any yes.
sel," belonging to any country not declared by thi's Dz
order to be subjected to the restrictions incident to a
state of blockade, -which shall It ve cleared out?" 4 from'
some port" "-of the country to which she belags," " direct to some pcrt" "1in the. colonies of
his majesty's enemies." The expression, shall have
must, in grammatical construction, allude to a time
whiich was future when the order was passed, and also
to a'time which should have passed, before the arrival
of that future time. "Wrhic, shall have cleared out."
That is, which shall then have cleared out. When .P
At the time of the seizure. If at the time of seizure,
the vessel shall have cleared eut from a neutral port
direct to an enemy's colony, she is within the exception to the general order. If it had been intended to
except only those which had cleared out. before the
11th of November, the date of the order,, the expression would hav e been, which have cleared out, 4c.
If the Venus was within the exception to the order,
the officer of the Wanderer had no right to prohibit
her from proceeding on )iei voyage; and his prohibition was no justificatiof to the ciptain in returning to
Philadelphia.
But even if the order did include this vessel, yet
the prohibition was no justification to the captain; because the Isle of France was only nominally, not actually blockaded.
A constructive blockade, if it be a peril insured
against, must be considered as within the denoinination
of restraints,but, from the terms of the policy, it must
be a restraint which comes to the hurt, damage or detriment of the thing insured. It must therefoire have
been either an actual or- a legal restraint.
A constructive blockade is not known to the law of
nations. Our courts- reject it. It is not a legal restraint. 2 Gaines, 11. 1 .ohns. 253.
If the circumstances'of the present case are a justi-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
KXnz
V
DEL.

fication, then every ill founded apprehension of atimorous man may'justify an abandonment. There
must be peril in point of fact. The misapprehension
of a weak man is not sufficient. 3 Bos. & Pull. 392.
5 Esp. 50. Parh, 226. The captain ought to have
proceeded, that he might himself see whether the
port was actually blockaded, or not.
He ought not to have depended upon the information he received from the Wanderer.
Harper,in reply.
The captain was under a nioral incapacity to proceed on his voyage, and was therefore justified in retarning. The policy of Great Britain was to interdict
this neutral commerce ; it was the great object of the order ofthe 1 th of'November, 1807. The words shallhave
cleared out, mean, shall "have now cleared out, i. e. beIt is immaterial whether
fore the date of the order.
this order was warranted by the law of nations, because
it.was still within the peril of restraint of princes. A
probability of capture and condemnation was sufficient. Such a reasonable apprehension as a man of
firmness might indulge.
1ebruary 17.
MARSHEALL, Ch.
court as follows:

J. delivered the opinion of the

This suit was instituted on a policy insuring the
freight of the Venus, from Philadelphia to the Isle of
France. The vessel sailed early in December, 1807',
before the Britisli orders in council, of the preceding
November, were known in the United States. On
the afternoon of the 16th of January, 1808, while
prosecuting her voyage, she met the British ship of
war Wanderer, by whom she was arrested and detained until the morning of the 18th, when she was restored to the captain, her papers being first endorsed
with these words, "Ship Venus warned off the 18th
of January, 1808, by H. M. S. Wanderer, from pro5

FEBRUARY, -1810.
KxvG
ceeding to any port in possession of his majesty's
V.
enemies."
iN. Co.
DZL.
Edward Medley, second lieutenant.

The captain was verbally inforined by an officer of
th Wanderer that the Isle of France was blockaded,
and that the Venus would be a good prize if-she proceeded thither.
The captain returned to Philadelphia, where he was
disabled from prosecuting his voyage by the embargo.
Considering the voyage as broken up, by the-arrest
and detention of his vessel by the Wanderer, he on
that account abandoned to the underwriters.
The pincipal .question arising -on tis .case is, was,
the captain of the Venus justified in'returning to Phijadelphia, after having proceeded about 1,000 miles 6n
his voyage, either by the_ endorsement on his -papers..
br the verbal information given by an officer. of the*
.
Wanderer?
A point preliminary to -the examination of this
question on its me-its has been made by the. plAintiff
in error.
The jury have found, that "by the- interruption,
detainment, and warning off of the British force, the.
voyage of the said ship Venus. Was .broken up."
After, stating the verbal information given by the
British officer respecting the blockade of the Isle of
France, is this further finding, "' We .find, in consequence thereof, that the said Elisha. King was fully
justified in returning to the port of Philadelphia."
These findings, it is urged, conclude the court, and
render this special verdict equivalent to a.general one.
But this court is not.of thit opinion. It hhas been
truly said, that finding the breaking up of the voyage
finds nothing. The question-recurs; was the voyage
broken up by one of the perils insured against, or by

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1NC

v~tion

DZL. IN. Co.

the fault of the captain? The answer to this ques
determines the liability of the underwriters.
It has been also truly said that the question of justification is a question of law, not of tact. If, as in
this case, the jury find the fact specially, and draw the
legal conclusion that the fact amounts to a justification,
the court is not bound by that conclusion.
The case, then, is open to examination on its real
merits, unaffected by the particular findings which have
been noticed.
In proceeding to inquire whether the circumstances
which actually occurred, justified the captain of the
Venus in returning to Philadelphia, it becomes important to ascertain the real hazard of prosecuting his
voyage. This essentially depends on the construction
of the British orders of council issued in November,
1807. By the plaintiff in error it is insisted, that
these orders extend to the direct trade between a neutral port and the colony of an enemy. In support of
this construction, a very acute and elaborate criticism
has been bestowed on those orders, which appears to
the court merely to furnish additional proof of the
imperfection of all human language. The intent of
the orders to exclude from their operation this direct
trade, an intent alike manifested by the context,,and
by the particular words forming the exception, the universal understanding of both countries, which has
been, on more than one occasion, publicly aknd officially
expressed, are too. conclusive on this-point to render
it necessary that the court should proceed to reviewv
that analysis of this document which has been so well
made at the bar4
According to the construction contended for by the
plaintiffs in error, an exception professedly made to
mitigate the rigour of the general rule, ' and still to
allow to neutrals the opportunity of furnishing themselves with colonial produce for theii own consumption and supply," would be more rigorous than the
rule itself, and would interdict that trade by which

FEBRUARY, 1810.

81

they were to be supplied with this produce for their . n
own use, with as jealous circumspection as the trade DEL. INL.Co-(2.
,
professedly prohibited by the general rule.
It is, then, the clear and unanimous opinion of the
court,,that the words " shall have," which are used in
the exception, relate as well to the time of capture, as
to the time of issuing the orders, and that a direct
voyage from the United States to a colony of France,
was not prohibited.
It being found that the Isle of France was not actually blockaded, and the orders not prohibiting the
voyage, it remains to inquire whether the apprehension excited by the warning, or by the verbal communication of a British officer, justified the return of the
Venus to Philadelphia.
. It has been very truly observed that, in this case,
the Venus was not physically incapacitated from prosecuting her voyage.
With equal truth has, it been observed, that there
was no legal impediment to her proceeding, because
the voyage was not prohibited by the orders of November, 1807; and, consequently, the endorsement on
her papers would not have increased. the danger.
There did not, then, at the, time the .voyage wasabat doned, exist, either in fact, or in law, the restraint
or detention, against which the underwriters insured.
From fear, founded on misrepresentation, the voyage
was broken up, and the vessel returned to her port of
departure.
Whether this mighti be justified under any circumstances it is unnecessary to determine. But the court
is of opinion that the circumstances of this case did
not justify it. The Venus might have proceeded, and
ought to have proceeded, until she could obtain further informatiohf. It would be dangerous in the extreme if any false intelligence received on a voyage
VA. W.

D

SUPREME COURT U. S.
D.

KINo
V.

might justify a captain in acting as if that intelligence

hr. Co. were true.

The case of Blackenhagen v. The London Assurance Company, has a strong bearing on this case, and
though that was a decision at Nisi Prius, it is entitled to all the respect which is due to the court of
common pleas. After the same opinion had been successively given by Lord Ellenborough, and by Sir
James Mansfield, it was affirmed by the whole court,
and the jury having found against the opinion of the
judge, a new trial was granted.
The court gives no opinion on the question how far
the underwriters would have been liable, had the
orders of council prohibited the trade to the Isle of
France. This decision is not intended in any manner
to affect that question.
Judgment affirmed with costs-

LEWIS v. HAR.WOOD.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of
A bond in
actition
;in
n a bond dated Fehhitwouldetu
t wuo V
Virginia, in an action of deb'upon
which
he uecemsary bruary ^, 1784, the condition of which was, that if
to assign
andbreacall the obligor should pay to William Whetcroft, his at,chcs,
in a jury, to torney, heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, the
assess dama- sum of 3,0001. current money of Virginia, on or
?ts, is not asi nable, u- efore the
ler the statute to be void.
14 Virginia.

1st of January, 1185, then the obligation

Providedthat if the obligor, on application by the
obligee at the town of Fredericksburg, on or after
the 1st of January, 1785, should" pay to the obligee
3,0001. in officers' certificates of a certain description,
or should pay the interest of 6 per cent. from the
date of the bond, on such certificates, if not paid,
and should annually and punctually pay the said 6 per

