SuPREME COURT U. S.

238

at a and
bounded
maple,
miles
,county.,
Above thebeginning
second falls,
opposite
to anear
largetenrunon

1onc.'s
LEsSEE
V.-

LEi.

the Virgihia side called Blckory .run,and stibding upon'
Sa point at the foot of the said island, and running thence
north sixty degrees,west sixty perches," (&c. &c. giving
the course'and distance of every line to. the beginning
tree,) " containing and laid out for 320 acres of land,
more or less."
The court below instructed the jury that the grant
to Thomas-Lee passed the whole of the island called
Eden,'and that the lessor of the plaintiff is not entitlctd .to recover. Verdict and judgment ifr plaintiff;
which opinion and judgment were, by this court,
'without argument, affirmed.

FINLEY v,. LYNN.

A bond, exe.

cuoed in

suance of puarti-

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Co-

lumbia, in a suit in chancery, brought by Finley against

cles of agree- Lynn.
inent,
m
may, In

The bill stated that on the 2Zth of February, 1804,
the plaintiff and defendant entered into articles of copartnership,
to be furnished
by Tthe
wa byo which the
o stock
n -no
h
mayhaverelief plintiff was to consist of one half of the ship United
even agaist States-and 5,000 dollars; and by the defendant, his
the admissions
gold and silver manufactory, two lots in the city of
hisinbill.
'Washington, all his sLock of merchandise, and the
rents of two houses. That a part of the merchandise
agreed to he furnished consisted of plate, jewelry, &c.
purchased by the defendant of Messrs. Lemuel Wells
& Co. to the amount, as was theii supposed, 'of2,300
dollars;, and, in consideration of its being brought into
the joint stock, the plaintiff agreed to pay one half of
the debt due to Wfells & Co. therefor.
equity, be re

those articles.
ntA in eomplainequity

,.

*

That the business of the concern was c-onducted in
two separate stores, viz. a hardware store r incipally

FEBRUARY, 1.810b

2-39

-under the management of the plaintiff; and a-jewelry
store under the management of the defendant, contain'
ing the stock of jewelry, &c. brought into thr joint conern by the defendant, and that which was purchased of
Wells & Co. The business of the copartnership was
carried on until the 1st of March, 1805, when a dissolution took .place. During that period goods were
bought and carried into the jewelry store, and at the

FNLX.r

time of the dissolution "the jewelry store was indebted to saidconcern?' in the sum of 2,825 dollars and 27
cents, besides which the concern had paid Wells & Go.
in part of their debt, the sum of 265 dollars and 56.
cents. That the dissolution was upon the following

terms, viz. that the defendant shouJd withdraw all the
property put into the joint stock by him; and should
have the goods in the jewelry store, and al the debik

due to that store, -s a compensation and in lieu *of the
And the
profits ariging upon the whole business.
plaintiff was to take, on his account the goods in the
hardware store, and tie goods which iwere ordered for
the spring; and was to indemnify the defendant from
all claims or demands upon the concern, or which
mi&ht arise from goods then ordered, and not at that
trie received; which articles of dissolution were under
ieal. That when the plaintiff signed the articles of
dissolution he did not intend to commit himself to the
payment of the debt due to Wells &. Co. For although, by the articles of copartnership, he had agreed
to pay half the debt, yet as the goods were given up to
the defendant upon the dissolution, he considered himself absolved from that obligation. And the plaintiff
contends that the defendant ought to have beeri satis.
fied when the plaintiff "returned to him the -whole
jewelry store, with the accession of nearly 3,000 dol.
lars worth of merchandise, and gave up .to him theprofits of the saidstore, ,which he -believes to be equal
to 2,500 dollars more."
That upon the dissolution the plaintiff agreed to give
the defendant s6curity for his performance of the terms
of the dlssohjljon, and the defendant had a bond prepared, which was signed by the plaintiff and his sure.ties;
that the plaintiff did not see the bond until he was called

LYNN,.
ap-%d

W

SUPREME COURT U. S.

on to sign it, and that he is satisfied he never read it
taking it for granted that it was a bbnd to compel him to
priform what he was bound to perform by the terms of
the dissolution; and that his sureties executed it under
the same circumstances and impression. That the
defendant did not claim payment of the- debt due to
Wells & Co. br.a yerar after the bond was exect~ted,
although Wells & Co. before the dissolution had brought
suit against the defendant therefor; that the defendant
had rendered the. plaintiff some accounts in which
that debt was not mentioned. That the defendant afterwards brought suit upon the plaintiff's bond, and.
gave notice that .he should claim the whole amount of
the debt due to Wells & Co. That the plaintiff's counsel was of opinion that the bond was so worded as to
bind the plaintiff to the payment of that -debt, where.
uporn the plaintiff confessed a judgment at law, saving
his right to relief in equity. That.the bond was executed under a mistaken impression of its contents,
and that the defendant will take out execution upon the
judgment at law, The bill-then prays an injunction to
stay execution, until the matter in dispute can be heard
and decided in equity, and the accounts between the
plaintiff and defendant examined and settled, and for
general relief.
The injunction was granted by one. of the judges
out of -court,
In the articles of c9partnership, after stating what
stock the plaintiff should bring into the joint concern,
the debt to Wells &tCo. is mentioned in the following
manner, viz.- " And on the part of Adam Lynn, his
gold and silver manufactory, two lots in the city of
Washington, all his stock of merchandise, (the said
0. P. Finley and Adam Lynn, jointly and severally,
by th'ese presents, binding themselves, their heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, to pay to Lemuel
Wells
6o. of New-York, two thousandthree hundred
C
dollars, motley due to them on account of said merchandise,) the-rents of one house," &c.
The account against the jewelry store was an ac-

FEBRUARYf '18lO.

241

count opened in the books of the company, chargifig
that store with goods purchased and put into it, for,
sale on the joint account; and giving, it credit by cash
and by goods sold to sundry persons; showing a balance of goods remaining in that store of 2,825 dollari
and. 27 1-2 cents, over and above the goods which
Were init at the commencement of the copartnership.
The articles of dissolution were truly recited in the
bill.
The condition of the bond of indemnity was as fobf
lows: " Whereas the said 0. P. Finley an~d Adans
Lynn, late joint merchanis and copartners under the
-firmof Finley & Lynn, -have by mutual consent dissol.e
ved the said copartnership on the first day of the re,
sent month, on which dissolution it. was, among otherthings, agreed between the said Oliver P. Finley and
the said Adam Lynn, that the said. Oliver P. Finley
should satisfyi and .pay all debts and contracts due fronr
br entered into'by the said copartnership,%'or either of
the said copartners, for or on account of, or for the benefit of the said copartnership,'including cdrtain debtsdue from the said Adam Lynn, for goods by him or,
dered, which have been received by the said copart-.
nership; and also all debts which may arise from merchandise hereafter. shipped to the said concern in consequence of any orders heretofore made; now the
condition of the above obligation, is such, that if the
said Oliver P. Finley shall well and .truly .satisfy and
discharge all' the debts and contracts herein before described, so as to indemnifv and save harmless the said
Adam Lynn from the payment of the same, and'fronx
any suit or prosecution in law or, equity, for or on account of the said debts and contracts,. then this obligation to be void."
There was also raised in the books of the. concern
an account against " m er ch an d is e, " the balance to the
debit of which was 4,028 dollars and 89 cents. And.
a statement of hardware imported on the joint account
before March, 1805, amountingto 7,653 dollars and- W
l. ,4
1l

rifPtzg
I'
LY-_
'-

242
FINLEV
V.

LYNN.

cents.

SLUREME COURT U. S.
And of debts of--the concern paicl by FRnlej

amounting to about 6,000 dollars.

The defendant's answer admits the original articles
of copartnership and of dissolution, and the bond as
referred to in the bill. It denies.that the plaintiff ad.
vanced the 5,000 dollars in .cash; and avers that the
profits of the ship United States never came to the use
of the concern, but-'were rztairt&d by Rickets & Newton, to whom the plaintiff had transferred his halt of
that ship. It avers that by the articles of copartnership,. each party was to bring into-the joint stock
S1i,000 dollars.. That the defendant brought in 2,429
dollars more than his prop)ortion, which was the reason
of making- the debt to Wells & Co. a partnership
debt; after which thiere was still an excess of capital,
amounting to 129"dollars furnished by the defendant,
for which he had credit upon the first opening of the
partnership books.
'The entry of stock on the 1st of March, 1804, was
as.follows:
l
.
1,500 0
Cash in England,
One half ship U. States, 1,800 0
1,290 0 ,
Real estate,
1,200 0
Manufactory,
1,538 14
Merchandise,

d.
0
0
0

0
0

1. s. d.
7,328 14 0.
Dtie from stock to L. Wells & Co. of N. Y. 690 0 0
38 14 0
To Adam Lynn,
It avers that the debt to Wells & Co. was, from. thid
lieriod, always considered by both parties as a copartn~rship debt, and that it was by the advice of the,
plaintiff .that the defendant suffered himself to be-sued
for that debt.
It admits that some goods were brought from the
hardware store to'thb jewelry sfbre, but avers goodsa
to a. large amount were also taken from the latter tq

FBBRT3ARY, 1810.

24.

the former store, of which no account was kept.
It denies that the account exhibited by the plaintiff
against the jewelry store is cbrrect; and- avers that if a
true account had been. kept, the balance.,would -have
been in favour of that store. It avers that it was" the
intention of the defendant, and 'he believes, of the
plaintiff also, in the articles of dissolution,' to 'nclude
the debt due to Wells & Coi under the description of
"all claims and demands on. the concern." That itJ
eas adopted as a social debt by .the articles of copartnership, and was placed to the credit of Wells & Co.
on the books of the concern, anti a- partial payment
made out of the joint funds. That if this credit'had
not been so given, the -defendant would have been a
creditor of the concern'to the amount of 2,429 dollars
instead of 129. That the Rlaintiff had 'paid many of
the debts due from thejewelr. store which were situated exactly'like that of Wells & Co.
'The answer expressly avers that the plaintiff did
'read,examine, and, as the klefendant believes, perlectly
-understandthe'bonti of indimnity before he executed
it. That it was left with him some hours before he
signed it. And it avers also, positively, ihat'the'plaintiff's sureties read it and made renarks 'to the defend-antin the presence of the plaintiff upon the manner in
which it was drawn."
,It states that the defendant offered the plaintiff two
propositions.as the basis of the dissolution. One was,
that a dividend should be made of the debts, the profits, aid the stock; and if any difference should arise,
on .settlebmeni, it should be submitted to thiree merchants. The 9ther was, that the defendant should
have th merchandise in the jewelry store, and the
debts due to that store, as a comprtsation in lieu of
the profits of the whole business ; that the plaintiff
should hold the merchandise in the hardware store, and
the debts due to it, and the profits of the trade, and
should pay all debts hrid contracts' as stated n. the
bond ;. the latter of which propositions was accepted
by the plaintiff.

FPhILR
LYNN
'.,,

.

9A4
RxtNLw
17.
Lya.

'UPREME

COURT U. S.

The answer denies that the defendant received bact
the jewelry store with the accession of 3,000 dollars
Sworth of merchandise, Qr that the profits were equal to
P,500 dollars. It avers that the defendant believe3
1hey did not exceed 1,250 dollars, and were less than
those of the hardware store. That the profits of the
ship United States were at least 4,000 dollars. These
the defendant relinquished to obtain indemnity against
the debts of the concern. That the plaintiff refused
to tale an inventory at the time of dissolution, so that
an accurate account cannot be taken. Th-.t the reason
why he did not sooner claim from the plaintiff the
amount due to Wells & Co. was, that he was under
an erroneous opinion thqt he could have no recourse
to the plitintiff until he should first have paid and discharged that debt.
The answer denies any agreement between the
plaintiff and defendant to acquit each other of their
private debts.
The only testimony in the cause related to the pro.
fitA of the ship United States; and the accoumts exhibited being true copies from the books.
The court bclow, conceiving that the whole equity
of the bill was completely denied'by the answer, and
not supported by the evidence in the cause, dissolved
the injunction, and,--upon final hearing, dismissed the
bill; whereupon the plaintiff brought his writ bf error,
Swann and 2ioungs, for the plaintiff in error, cor
tended,
1. That Finley was not bound to pay the debt du
to Wells & Co.; and,
.2, That Finley was entitled to the amount standing
on the books of the concern to the dt-bit of the jewelry
store, it being (as they contended) a dtbt due to the
hardwarestore, and that, by the true constiuction of
the articles of dissolution, Finley was entitled to the
&ebts due to that store.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

245

1. In support of the, first point it was said that by VINLZY
LYNN.
the articles of dissolution- Finley was bound to indemnify Lynn from " clqims and demands upon the con- %"oP,., t
cern" only. Thb'.t the claim of Wells & Co. was
against Ljnn only for goods originally sold to him upon his sole credit, ind that although the goods-afterwards came to the use of the concern,..and although
Finley and Lynn might agree between themselves to
consider it as a joint dett, yet that would give Wclls
& Co. no claim upon the concern. That t':e bond was
giveri merely to carry into effect the articles of dissolution, and will not in equity be extended beyond the
expressions of those articles; The bond does not alter the equitable obligations of the parties. i Fon.
106. 188. 192. 2 Atk. 203. 2 P.*Wms. 349. 1 P.
WiMs. 123.
2. Although the articles ofdis'solution do not expressly give Finley the debts due to the hardware store,
yet it is tb be implied from the principle of reciprocity
'which seems intended between the parties, and from
the circumstance that he was bound to pay all the debts'
of the concern. 1 Fonb. 427. Although the accoupt
makes the jewelry store debtor to Finley and Lynn,'
yet it means Finley and Lynn's hardwtre store, because that store was carried on in the name of Finley &
Lynn, the jewelry store in the name cf Lynn only.
Although the plaintiff has not in his bill cJaimed thig
balance, yet that is no objection to his recovery. He
has. prayed for general relief, and the court will give
him every thing which in equity he ought to have. 3
.Atk. 523.
Although the defendant denies that balance to be
dlue, because he says goods, of which no account was
taken, had been carried from the jewelry to the hardware store, yet he admits that'the goods charged in the
account were furnished and sent to the jewelry store,
and his answer is no evidence that goods were cariied
from the jewelry to the hardware store. It is not an
averment responsive'to the bill, and must be proved
by other evidence than the defendant's answer.

246
ZLs

SUPREME COURT U. S.

One witness will authorize a decree against an answer. 1 Ak; 19. And here was a witness who testi..
fled that both the parties admitted the entries in that
account to be correct.
E.

foLee and

Yones, contra..

The whole equity of -the bill consists in the allega.
tion .that the -bond does not agree with the articles of
dissolution, and was' obtained by surprise. It contains
no other ground of complaint. The answer completely denies this equity, and there is no proof to support
The bond is-warranted by the articles of dissolution
The ground of
and the articles of copartnership.
surprise and mistake is denied absolutely bN the-an-*
swver. It is a rule in equity that the ground of mis.
take or surprise must be clearly proved before a court
of equity will interfere. 1 Vezey, 317. In th case
there is a total failure of proof altogether. Nothing
can be clearer than -the liability of the plaintiff to pay
the debt of Wells & Co. The articles of cOpartnro
ship are express and pointed - to that effect. The articles of dlssolution taken inconnection with the articleof copartnership, are eqvally explicit, and the, bond
is unequivocal.
With regard to the account raised against the jewel.
ry store, it is no more than a memorandum of the
amount 'of goods placed there for sale, The account
is with the concern. The--plaintiff in his bill expressly
states it to be so. I is;no more than if the company
had. chosen to keep. a separate account of the profits
arising from any particular article of merchandise.
It is very common -for' merchants to open an account"
against flour, or rum, or tobacco, or whie, or any
other article in which they have large dealings, yet no
ono ever thought that such an account ,created a
debt. If this account against the jewelry store created
'a debt, it was Finley & Lynn's debt to Finley K&Lynn.
The jeweliy store was Finley & Lynn's store. An
account against the stoke was, therefore, an account

FEBRUARY, 1810.4

247

asainst Finley & Lynn. ! It wai merely the right hand
made debtor to the left.
Besides, it was clearly the -intention of .-the. parties
that something should be given to Lynn in lieu of his
share of the profits of the trade. If you give him
the gbods in the jewelrystore, and still make'him-debtor
for the goods, you give him nothing. He might, as
well have bought the goods elsewheie. The plaintiff
in his bill makes a merit of having given up to the defendant the whole jewelry store, 'with the accession of
nearly 3,006 dollars worth -of mercha';dise, and- the
whdle profits of that store to the amount of 2,500 dollars. This could "not possibly have been the case if
the defendant was to be made debtor for those goods.'
Although a person is not bound in equity by the ad.
mission of a principre of law-, yet he is by the admission,of a fact; and here is a clear admission of a fact.
as to the understanding and the intention of the parties atthe time of the dissolution.
March 7.
MARSITMLt, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows, viz.*

The plaintiff and defendant had been copartners in
trade, and had cirried on their busingss'in two stores ;
the one a jewelry store in the name of Lynn-, to be.conducted exclusively by. him; the other a .hardware
sfore in the name of Finley & Lynn, to, be under
ihe joint management of the partners.
Previous to the .commencement of their parifiershiN
Lynn bad contracted a debt to Lemuel Wells & Co.
of New-York, for goods ordered for.-a jewelry store
carried on by himself, which goo(as it was mutually
agreed to- trapsfer to the new coacein, and the debt
to Lemuel Wells.& Co. should become a debt
'
chargeable on thq social fund.
In Feoruary, 1805, itwas agreed to dissolve the copartnership; and 'articles were entered into to take
'.T, dges ,T,,rsna

i

ak

l

248

SUPREME COURT U. S.

effect on, the first day of March. The terms- iwere,
" that Adam Lynn shall . withdraw al the propertyput into the joint stock by him, and that he shall have
the goods in the jewelry store, and all the debts de to
that'store, as a comp.ens;ition in lieu of tht profits
arising from the whole business; and the said Finley
agree's to take, on. his own account, the goods in the
hardware store, and the goods which are ordered in
the spring, and t6 indemnify the said Adam Lynn
froma all laims or demands upon the said",concern, or
which may arise for goods now orderel, and not yet
arrived."
On the secon4 oE MTrch, a bond of indemnity wat,
e'tecuted, the condition of which, after stating the dissolution, proceeds thus : " On' which dissolution it
was, among other things, agreed- that the said Oliver
P. Finley ,should satisfy and pay al iebts and contracts due from,'or entered into by, the said copartner.
ship, or either of the said. copartnei's, for or on account
of or for the benefit of the said copartnership, including
certain debts due from the said Adam L%nn for goods.
by him ordered, which haxre been received by the said
copartnership, and also all debts whi.ch may arise from
merchandise hereafter shipped to .the said bnuern, inconsequence of any orders heretofore made.
' Now the condition of the above obligatidn. issuch, that if the said Oliver P. Finley shall well and
truly satisfy and' discharge all the, debts .,nd contracts herein before described. so as to indemnify and
save harmless the 'said Adam Lynn from the payment
of the same, andcfrom aiy suit or prosecution in law

or equity for or on account of the said debts and contracts, then this obligation to be void."
Some time previous to the dissolution, an action
had been brought by Lemuel Wells & Co. againstAdam Lynn for the 'recovery .of this'debt whiqh
was then depending.
In December, 1806, Ada'ni Lynn, for the first tiane
claimed, under the bond of indemnity, the amount of

F.EBRUARY,- 1810.
the debt to, Lemucl Wells & Co. and, payment
being refased, infticuted a suit on the bond.' Suppo-

sin'g that* no defence could be made at law, judgment
was confessed, with a reservation of all equitable objctions to the payment.. A bill. was then filed suggesting that the bond was executed by mistake, add in the
confidence that it was in exact conformity with the
articles, and praying that it might be restrained by the
articles. Several extrinsic circumsfances .are also de.
tailed and:relied- upon as demonstrating that Lynn
himself did not suopose, until.'so infoimed by counse4
that the bond comprehended this debt.

An injunction was granted which, on the coming
in of'the answer, was dissolved, and, on a final heafing&
the bill was*dismissed.
The answer denies all thi allegations of the bill
*hicfi go 'to the mistake under Which the bond was
executed; insists- that it conforms to the true meanitig
'tf the articles and intent of the parties; and endeavours
to explain those extrinsic circumstances on which the:
plaintiff relied. That a bond, executed in pu'rsuanee ofPti1des, mPT
be restrained by those articles, if the departure -froi
them be clearly shown, is. not to be contrmerted.
But in this caseJ.he majority of the court is of.bpinioa
that n6 such departure ii manifested with suf tient
clearness to'"justify the "interposition of a'coirt of
equity.
By the articles of copartnership, the de to Lemuel
Wells' & Co. 'was assumed by the fin. of Finley &
Lynn, ahd' was payable out of the psrtpers.hip fund.
It is true that, at law, it did not constitae i defmand
against'the partnership., but the court is vauch inclined
to the opinion,-that, had Lynn become insplvent, a sUit
in equity might have ben sustained, -on this claim,
against Finley & Lynn..
If it might in equity, though not in law, be a" claim
Vol. VI.

i

F&NL ?
LN

250
FiNLay
V
L.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

or demand upon the concerq," there Aoes not appear
to be such a repugnancy between the bond and the

articles as to induce the court to say that the bond,,

which, so far as is shown in this cause, was executed
v'ithout imposition, and with a knowledge of its contents, binds the -obligois further than they intended to
be bound. The extrinsic circtimstances relied on are
certainly entitled to much consideration; hut they. are
not thought sufficiendy decisive and unequivocal in

their character to justify a court 6f equity in restraining
legal rights acquired under a solemn cont-act.
Though this is the principal object of the bill, it
may be understood to contdmplate something further.
It prays for a settlement of all accounts, and for
general relief.
So far as the accounts between the parties are closed
by' the. articles of dissolution, no reason ct.', be assigned
for opening them. 2But if rights, growing out of thosev
articles, require a settlement, 'the plaintiff is entitled
to ap account.
By a iuajority of the court it is conceived teat if

any profits had arisen on the jewelry store, independent
of the goods oft hand and of the debts due to the store,
the plaintiff is entitled to them.. It' is.not probable that
there are such profits ; but it is very possible that the re
may be. Large sums.of money may have been received, and migot either be on hand'when the dissolution
took place, or have been diverted to various uses.
If such be the fact, the majority of the court is of
opinion that any fair construction 'of the articles gives
those profits to the plaintiff.. T'he contract is,. that.
Adam Lynn shall have "'ihe goods in the jewelry
store, and all the debts due to that store, as a compen-,
salion in lieu of the profits arising from the whole

business."" N-ow the profits of the jewelry store, if
any, not existing in debts or goods, were certainly a
part of the " profits of the 'whole business," and 'are,
consequently; yielded to theplaintiff.
That this wa the deliberate intention of the defend-

PEBRUARN%-wIg.

251

A proposition 'for a
dissolution was, he sa s, made by him in writin an
accepted by'the plaintiff. That "proposition is, "1 that
the defendant should have the merchandise in the
jewelry store, ahd the debts due to that 'store,.as a
compensation in lieu of the profits of the whole busyness; that the complainant should hold the merchant
dise in the hardware store, and the debts due to it,
and the pro/its of the trade."
a;nt, is avowed in his answer.

Now the profits of thejewelry store are certainly a
part of the "1profits of the trade."
The plaintiff also claims a debt said to be due-froiu
the jewelry store to the hardware store.
As all the debts due to the hardware store are
obviously assigned to Finley, this debt becomes his
prboerty, unless his claim to' it is relinquished by th
undertaking to pay'all debts due from the concern.
The words of this undertaking are to be lQoked
for in the condition of his bond. He is to-" satisfy
and pay all debts and contracts due -frcm, or entered
into by, the said copaktuership, or either of the said
'cppartners, for or on account of or for the benefit of the,
said copartnership."
The terms of this stipulation appear to- the court
to be applicable to claims upon the copartnership,
and not to claims of a part of the company on the other
part. He is to satisfy and pay all debts and contracts
due from, or, entered into by, the said copartnership,
not to release the claim of one store upon the other.
This is. a "claim which did not exist upon the copartnership, and which groWs out of the articles of dissolution. Those articles assign'to the plaintiff all the pro.
fits of the hardware store, as well as the debts due to
it. They separate what was before united. They
draw the distinction between the hardware and the
jewelry store, and make the de6t dlue to the hardware
store a part of the profits of thit store.

XHNL2-t

Li; .
.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

252
ViNLaY
V. 1.r
Lvai.

The residue of the condition does not affect the
er
ctd
iqaestion, and need notrbC recited0
it is, then, the opinion of a majority of the court
that, if there was really a debt due from the jewelry
store to the haidware store, Finley is entitled to that
debt.
This is a prope" subject. for an account.
The plaintiff has probably not applied fdr this account in the court below, and it does not appeao to be
a princioal object of his bill. This court, thLrefore,
doubited whether it would be most proper to affirm the
-decree dismissing the bill with the addition that it should
be without prejudice to any future claim for profits,
and for the debt due from one store to the other, or to
9pen the decree and direct the account. The latter
was deemed the more equitable course. The decree,
tbtrefore, is-to be reversed, and the cause repand
ed, with directions to take an account -between the
two,stores, and an account -of the profits of the jewelry
store, if the sam shall be required by the plaintiff.
TODD, J. concurred in the opinion of the court that
the debt of Wells ES Co. was a debt to be paid by
Finley, but he differed upon the other part of the case,
being of opinion, that the complainant was 'not entitled.
to a relief which by his bill'he had made a merit of
wvaiving..

Decree reversed, and thecause remanded, witb directions-to reinstate the injundtion, and take an account, &c.

DE BUTTS v. BACON AND OTHERS,

if

agenf,

ERROR to the circuit court for thq district of Co.
ina suit in chancery, brought by Samuel De

lumbia
has. ,yf
pe.,
permission of

