274

SUPREME COURT U. Sr

1xVn'saTON
V.

MAR. IN. Co.

LIVINGSTON AND GILCHRIST v. THE MARV
LAND INSURANCE COMPANY.

ERROR to the circuit court' for the district of MaIf the interest
of one joint ryland,, in an action of covenant upon a policy (of in-

(
surance against c ipture only) upon goods laden on
board the ship Herkimer from Guyaquil, or her last
port of discharge in South America, to New-York;
breach of the the goods w'ere warranted to be American property,
if "proof of which to be required in the United States
neutrality
I he ship and cargo were captured by a British
the other joint only."p
anats
f
owner, whose
at Halifax as prize.
ownerof a cargo be insured,

thatneuiand
trestif be
tral, it is no

interest is not
insured, be a
belligerent.
The assured

are not undherstood to warrant that the
whole cargo is

neutral,
but
that the inte.
rest insured is
neutral.

Tise effect of a

inisrepresenta-:

ship of war, and condemned

The defence set up by the underwriters was,
1. That one Baruro, a Spanish subject, was interest.
ed in the cargo, and that Baruro being. a subject ,of
one of the belligerents, the warranty of nieutrality was
forfeited.
2. That certain Spanish papers Were found on board

tionoreouceal- stating the cargo to be the prbperty of Baruro, and alpon a though Baruro might not be interested in the cargo,

reat,

pends upon its

yet these papers, not being necessary, according to the

rnuaeriitity to usual course of the trade, were the. cause of the cont.e risk. which
must be dcci- demnation, and as this cause proceeded from the act
ded by a .Jury of the instired, the underwriters were not liable,
under the direction of -a

3. That although the interest of the plaintiffs LivingCourt.
The right to ston & Gilchrist, was neutral, yet the concealment of
shanl n msay
be kept in sus-

pense by ms,tual consent.
If foreign laws
and
regulations

iog

respect-

ree

not proved to
have been in
vriting aspublie edicts, they
may be proved

by puroL
'I a vessel take

the interest of Baruro vitiated the pblicy.
4. That the abandonment was not made in due time.

T

To these objections the plaintiffs answered,
1. That Baruro,was not part owner of the goods-;
he had only a contingent interest in the profits of tho
voyage. That the subject insured was only the iit-

FEBRUARY, 18io7

,2 75

fest of thep'taintfi', which was strictly ineutral pro- LivzoasT
V.
pety
,MAR.
IN. CV.
perry.
2. That the Spanish papers were necessary to carry 6d board paon the voyage insured, according to the nature and pers which inorcapture, and.
the trade.

tourse of

If it be not the

wsage
3. That the interest of Baruro was not such a. they regular
ofured to tak

Were bound to disclose.

"

"the

papers'
suchnn!e-isl-

Upon the trial of the issue of non infregit conven- sure ofthe fact
they
tionem, the jury found a special verdict; and a bill of that
will ato
exceptions was taken by the plaintiffs in error
the instruction of the court to the jury, that parol eatethapo)oir'
evidence was not competent to prove, " that according
to the uniform and long standing laws of Spain,:relative
to the trade of her colonies in America, and especially
of Peru, no goods could, at and 'about the time of the
making the policy in 'the declaration mentioned, be
imported into, or exported from, the colony of Peru,
from, or to any other than a Spanish port in Europe,
or in any other than a Spanish bottom, without a special license from the King of Spain for that purpose,
and that such licenses, at and about the said time,
were never granted, with respect to the said colony of
Peru, to any but Spanish subjects ; and that, accord• ig to the- constant course and usage of the trade, to
and from that colony, ander such licenses, it was usual
and necessary for the property to appear, in the said
colony, and at its departure therefrom; as the proper"ty of a Spanish subject, and of the person holding
th: license, to be accompanied by such Spanish papers as were necessary to give it that appearance,
and to be cleared out as such from the port of.de-.
parture in Peru; such licenses, not being avowedly
transferable; although* by observing the abovementioned formalities and precautions, American property,
at and about the said time, might be, and sometimes
.was, imported into, -and exported from, the said colo
ny by American. citizens, by virtue, and under the
protection, of such liceinses."
The order for insurance., which wa, supposed to

Q176

SUPREME COURT U. S.

LXvx-aTo amount, to a representation, that the whole cargo was
MAR. 1z.¢o. neutral property, was contained in a letter from the plaintiff Gilchrist to Webster & Co. at Baltimore, in which he
says, "on the recommendation of Messrs. Church &
Demmill, I take the liberty of requesting you to effect
insurance in your city on the cargo of the ship Hlerkimeri Church, master, from Guyaquil, or her last
port of departure in South America, to Newv-York,
against loss by capture only, warranted American propertv, and iree .from all loss on account of seizure,
for illicit or prohibited trade. The owners are already
insured aainst the dangers of the seas, and all other
risks except that of -capture. You will please to insure to the amount of fifty thousand dollars in valued
policies. You have already had a Aeseription of the
ship from Messrs. Church & Demmill, the agents of
Mr. Jackson, who, is the'owner, and which I presume
is correct. Bya letter received from Mr. James
Baxter, the supereargr,, dated at Lima, tht-23d of
September, 1805, 'he did not expect the Herkimer
would sail from Guyaquil until the last, of February,
I think proper to mention, that the insurance will be
on account of Mr. Brockholst Livingston and itiyself.
Mr. Bixter and Mr. Griswold are also concerned,
but the, first gentleman thinks there is so little danger
of capture, that in his letter from Lima, he expressly
directs no insurance to be made for him against this
risk, and Mr. Griswold is not here to consult. Both
these gentlemen, as well as those for whom you are
desir'ed to make insurance are native Americans."The description of the ship, as given b.r Church &
Demmill, and referred, to in the above letter,, was as
foUlows: " She is a fine ship of about 400 tons bur.
den, about three years old, sheathed and coppered to
the bends, built in the state of New -York, and her
bwner a native American citizen. She sailed from
Boston on the 12th day of May last, bound for Lima,
with liberty to go to one other port in South America,
not west of.Guyaquil and from thence to New-York.
"She has permission to trade there."

FEBRUARY, 1819.

277

On the 5th of June, 1806, the plaintiff- Gilchrist,
wrote to Webster & Co. at Baltimore, informing them
of the capture of the Vressel, and that the tlain!iffs had

sent an agent to Halifax to act in bt half 'of the con-¢erncd, and desiring that this informatioft should be
communicated to the underwriters, and assurances
that 'the plaintiffs should act throughout With due regard to their respective interesis. He then says, I' I
should like them to approbate the 'ow.ners in. takin".
every measure they may judge best for our mutual
interest,'withoutprejudice to our right.' I ought likewise to mention that one of -the owners has also gone
in her, so the underwriters will observe •every measure.
calculated to protect their and our interest has bien
speedily pursued." This letter was laid lbfore.the
underwriters, who returned it with their answer endorsed thereon " read and iipproved."
On the 22d of August, 1806, after the conaemnation in the court of vice-admiralty, the plaintiffs aban-'
doned to the underwriters.
.The cause 'as argued at great length .by Zarper.
for the plaintiffs in error, and by Winder. Key and I tin, for the defendants, but their arguments were principally upujn points not decided by the court.
March 16.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered" the opinion -6f the

court as follows:
In this case several questionk have "occurred, on
which the court has not yet formed an opinion.- The
application of rules and principles, which have -eb6n,
framed for an action on the case, to an action of covenant, is an operation of some'difficulty. The cdurt
has not decided with precision, 'on the'extent of the
plea, .that" the 'defendant l'has- not broken his covenant,
nor on the testimony which may be admited' nuder
that plea. Some difficulty, also, arises fron' thecircumnstances, that 'the parties have gone to. trial under
the exp.ectation that the whole merits of the case were

LivxNGsToil
V.
MARt. I.N. Co.
.--

278

SUPREME COURT U. S.

bxvpTGSTO open, under the issuq which was joined, and that such
. ,,. expectaltion was authorized by. the invariable usage of
MAR.
Sthe courts of Maryland, and of the circuit court sitting in that state.
Upon the inspection of the special verdict in thiscase, it is supposed that, however these points may be
decided, a venire facias de novo* would _probably be
awarded; and, as the delay of a term Would be a great
inconvenience to the parties, it is deemed advisable to
award it now.
There are, however, some points, which have been
argued at great length, on which an opinion has been
formed, which will now be delivered.
It is essential, in this form of action especially, to
distinguish accurately between the warranty coutained
in the. policy, and those extrinsic circumstances, such
as misrepresentation or concealment, which have been
deemed sufficient to discharge the underwriters. Although the effet of a breach of a warranty, and of a
material misrepresentation may be the same on a policy, yet they cannot be confounded together, in deciding on pleadings or on a special verdict.
The warranty, in this case, is ini these words; "warranted, by the asstired, to be American property, proof
of which to be required in the United States only."
The interest insured is admitted to be American
property, in the strictest sense of the term; but it is
contended, that Baruro, a Spanish subject, had an in.
terest in the cargo, which falsifies the warranty.
Whether Baruro could be considered as having arL
interest in the cargo, or not, is a question of some intricacy, which the court has no decided; and which, if
&termined in the one way or the other, would not affect the warranty; because, the assured are not understood to warrant that the whole cargo is neutral, but
that the interest insured is neutral.

"'9EBRUARY, 1810.
If the assured represented the whole cargo to be Livfalw~kz ,
.neutral, when it was not, or if 1hey concealed the inter-.MAR..1N. Co.
est of 'a belligerent, when it ought to have been disclo,
sed, which facts this court neither affirm nor deny, the
effect of the misrepresentation or concealment on the
policy, depends on its materiality to the .risk. This
must be decided by a jury under the direction of '
court. In this case, it has not been decided. Consequently, 'were it even to be admnitted that, under'
the peculiar circumstances of this case, these facts might'
be taken into consideration, without being specially
pleaded, a venhre facias de novo would be necessary,
in order to ascertain their materiality.
So, too, with respect to the Spanish papers found
on board.
It is said that the verdict finds their materiality, by
finding thiat the fair premium on American property
disguised as Spanish, on the voyage insured, was
twenty-five per cent. whereas the premium, in this, case,
Was only ten per cent.
But, it does not appear to the court that this pro.
perty was, by these papers, disguised as'Spanish. It
is found to have been the constant course of the trade
to have them on board, and, consequently, they cannot
be understood to disguise the property ^as Spanish,
when there are other papers which prove it to be
American.
It is, too, as yet, undecided, that this maft6r could be
given in evidence, on this issue.
Although this verdict, and .these pleadings, do not
pre ent the merits of the cause in such form as to enable the court to decide them, there are some insulated
points, from which the cause may be iclieved.
The referehce to the letter 'of Church and Demmill,
which. was made by the assured, in their letter of the
26th of March, to Alexapder Webster & Co., has

2§0

SUPREME COURT 1Y. S.

LIVtNuSTO- been treated both as a representition, and as a warranMAR.

I

. ., which is falsified by the sentence of'eoademnation. There is no colour for this opinion.
Most clearly' it is not a Warranty, for it is not intr6duced into the policy; atndif it were i representation,
it only goes to the actual state of the ship, at the time,
not to her future conduct.
but it is not even a representation.
is full and clear on this point.

Marshall, 33G.

The letter of the assured, of the 5th of June, is
understood to ask the permission of the underwriters
to keep their right to abandon in a state of suspense,
and the note made by the president and directors, on
that letter, is understood ag granting that permission.
It is difficult to ascribe this letter to any other motive.
It has been asked, for how long a time is this permission given? The answer is obvious. It is, at
least, to continue while the' property continued in its
then situation, unless it should be sooner determined
B~y on.e of the parties. The assured might abandon
previous to the sentence, or iminediatelv afterwards;
and the underwriters might, at any time, require the
assured to elect immtdiately, either to abandon or to
waive- the right so to do. Since they have not made
this comniunication, their original permission continued
in force. 'But the jury have not found that the abandonment was or was not in due time.
Tt is, also, the opinion of the court that, as the laws
and regulation , by which this trade was regulated, are
not proved to'have been in writing, as public edicts,
but may have depended on instructions to the governor,
'they may be proved by parol.
The judgment is to be reversed, because the special verdict is defective; ;nl the cause remanded, with
directions to award a vewrefacias de novo.

FEBRUARY, 1810.

81

In the.second case, it is ordered to be certified; that, LxviiwsroX
Wfthe jury should be of opinion that the Spanish pa- MA2. x. Co'
pers, mentioned in this case, were material to the risk,
and that it was not the regular usage of the trade insured to take such papers on board, the non-disclosure of
die fact that they would be on board, v-ould vitiate the
policy; but if. the jury should be of opinion that they.
were not material to the risk, or that it was the regular
usage of the trade to take such papers on boar4; that
they would not vitiate the policy.

HUDSQ.N AND SMITH -. GUESTIER.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Ma- The juriade
ryland; in an action of trover for coffee and logwood, French courts
to seizures,
the cargo of,the brig Sea'Flower, which had been cap- isP not
corifiued
tured by the French, for trading to. the revolted ports to seizures
of the island of Hispanioka, contrary to the ordinances made - within
of
of Francei and carried into the Spanish port of
A seizure, becop, but condemned by a.Frenchtribunal at Guadaloupe, yond
the limits
and sold for the benefit of the captors, and purchased of the territofnat jurisdic..
by the defendant Guestier.
tion, for breach
..-

of a municipal

Upon the former trial of this case in the court be- regulation,

it

by
low, a statement of certain facts was agreed to 6y the warranted
-he lai of nacounsel for the parties, and read in evidenO td the tions.
Whenis therein Cajury, who then found a verdict for the plaintiffs. One versal
of the facts so admitted, and which, was then deemed v,ur ofthe dewholly immaterial by both parties, was, t0.-t the Sea- endan upon a
Flower was captured within one league, of,the coast of tions, a new

which was the trialimurstbea
the islandof Hispaniola. Upon this fact,
f is
dwarded
by tie
only fact which thi case dffered from tht of Rose V c urt below.
.Uirzely, (ante, vol. 4. p. 241.) the supreme court reversed the first judgment of the court below, .(see ante,
",oj. 4. p. 293.) which had been for the plaintiffs, and
remanded the cause for further proceedings.
Upon the second trial in the court below; the verdict
and judgment were for the defendant.
VoL V1.

Na

