FEBRUARY,

1810.

1.7.
Tim U. S.
V

THE UNITED STATES v. HALL AND WORTH.
ERROR to the circuit court for the district of

HALL

,

If a vessel

'be* driven by
Pennsylvania, in an action of debt upon an embargo stress of vea
bond; datec Decermber 29, 1807, the condition of which ther to the

Indies,
West
was, to reland certain goods in some port-oftht..United
.
and the cargo
States, " the dangers of the seas onk. excepted." The tsere detained
vessel on board of which the goods were laden, cleared by the governout and sailed from Philadelphia,.or East Portland, in plc, this is
the district of Maine, but, having encountered se.- such a casualty
vre and tempestuous weatheri her crew disabled in a in the excengreat degree, she was obliged,in order to escape from tian
the
gere of,"
"of dun-

the danger of Nantucket Shoals, to change her course, g.e.. i the
and to endeavour to:gim the port of Charlestom The conditiokof an
weather and the winds, however, were so severe 2ind embargo bond.
adverse that she could not make Charleston, nor any
other port of the United States, ant .was obliged to
bear away for the West Indies to obtain relief. She
arrived at Porto Rico in distress., The governor 6rdered the cargo to be landed and sold, with which order
the captain was obliged to comply, and did land and sell
the same. She could not leave the island without considerable repairs, which were accordingly made.
The court below instructed the jury ihat these facts,
if believed by them, were, upon the whole case,
sufficient to bar the United States of their action. The

verdict.and judgment were accoraingly fortbe defendants, and the United States sued out a wrii, of errot.
The bona was taken' in pursuance of the directions
of the act of 22d of December, 1807, usually called
the embargo act, (vol. 9. p: 7.) and befor any of the
supplemental acts on qh~i subject were paqsed. The third sectiQn of the act of March 12, 1808, (Vol.
9. p. 71 ) provided that in eyery case vhere a bon(d
had .been given under the ac of 22d of December,
,1807, conditioned to reland the goods, A&t. the parties

SUPREME COURT U. 6.
TH, U.
V.
HAL

S.

should, within four months after the date of the same,
prQduce to the collector a certificate of the relanding,
&c. on failure whereof the bond should'be put in suit,
and judgment should be given against the-defendants,
"unless proof shall be produced of such relandiing,
4;r of loss by s.ea, or other unavoidable accident."
The seventh section of the act'of January 9;.1409,
(vol. 9. p. 190.) usually called the enforcing act, prop
vides that in -all cases- where' under'the- act -of'22d of
December, 1807, a bond has beerngiven .treland,&fd
the partier shall, within two months afterethe date of
the same, produce to the collettor,.a- certificate of the
relanding of the godsifrom the collector of the properpqrt'; on failure whereof the bond shall be -put in suit,
and judgment 'shall be given against the dpfendantg,
"unless proof slhall be given of such relanding, dor
of loss -of the vessel at 8ert. But neither capture, dis.
tress, or any other accident whatever, shall be pleaded
or given in evidence in any such suit, unless such capture shall be expressly' proved to have been hostile-;
and such distress or-accident occasioned'by no negli.gence or deviation, nor unless such vessel shall hfive
*been, from-the -commencement of the voyage, wholly
navigated by a master, mate or mates, mariners and
crew, all .of whom shall be citizens'of the Unite4
States, &c. &c.-Rodney, Attorfiey-.General, and.yones, for the United
States. In order to excuse the party he must show
that the goods have been actually lost by the dangers of,
the seas. Ifthe vessel were irresistibly driven by a
tempcst to Porto Rico, yet the. goods arrived there in
safety, and were not lost. The party had the full benefit of'them, and probably at a higher price than if he
had landed' thirm in the United States. If the law of
the 12th of March affects the, case, yet it -must be a
loss by sea, or X lqss by other unavoidable-accidert.
When the legislature particularly, except certain
casts, no other exceptions can he presumed., No loss
ran be said to be by the dangers of thlseas, unless
the sea be the proximate cause of.the loss. Greene

FEBRUARY, 181b.
xti~ al. v. .Einley, Beahe's N; P. 61. 212.

173
427,.R. 783.- Tva U. S.

Bunb. 37.

The vested rights of parties may be varied by poste,-r
rior laws. The prohibition in the constitucion respecting ex pdstfacto laws, applies only to criminal cases.
Hopkinson, contra.
1. Thiswis a loss by the dangeis of the seas; and,
2; We are 'entitled to the benefit of the -act of 12th
of March, 1808, by -hich unavbidable'accidentis an
eCxcuse.

1. The first embargo law means such a kind of a loss
as prevents the relanding of the goodi in- the United
,States. It does not mean where the lbss is occasioned
by the immediate dingers of :the element, -butany loss.
to.which vessels are exposed in consequence of the dangers of the seas.Thus capture by pirates is a loss by one- of the dangers of -the seas. The expression has -the sametnean'ing in -the act as it has in bills, of tadiog. : If this action had_ been.upon the bill of lading instead of the
bond, such an accident would have been a sufficient
excuse to the master for not delivering the goods, So
in a policy of insurance.. Abbott, 155.
zAmer.
edit. 2
RoW..Abr. 248. j., 10. Marshall,418.1st edit. Abbott,
168.'" Carricks v. Cox. Binney's Rep. $up. Courtr-'ennsylrania' Aarshall,488. 2d edit.
Theyvess7el was by the weather foic'ed into Torto
Rico. She could not, return-%without. repairs. -She
could 4ot obtain repairs without leave of the- governor.
That leave could not be obtained but by obedience to
hisorders. 'His orders prevented the relanding of the
goods according to the condition of the bond.
The case cited from Peake only- snows tha The loss
was within the description of loss by captUre trot that.
it was not a loss by the dangers of the seas. The cast

.

HALL.

1.74
THII X&

V.

HALL.

SUPREME 'COURT U. &

as a.mere private trespass; co w
S. from .unzifry
that cited from 4 7. R. 783. It was not an act of the

~government.

The' insured ha& a private remedy
against the trespassers.

2. We have a right to the benefit of the act of 12th
of March, and are excused if prevented from relanding
by any unavoidable.accident.
There is a difference, as to ex post facto laws, between those which mitigate, and those vhich increase,
,he penalty.
The act expressly refers to bonds taken under the
prior law. It does not mean loss by unavoidable accident, but preventionby such accident. "1he punctuation of the sentence, as printed in the statute book, favours this construction; but if it be doubtful, the court
will lean against the penalty.
Bt~t the property was lost to the owner, within the
meaning of the statute. He had no power over the
thing itself; he could not bring it away. 't is immaterial whether he obtained an equivalent, or not; the
letter of the condition of the bond could only be satisfied by relanding the thing itself. A compliance with
the condition was to him as impossible as if the goods
had perished in the sea.
3. The act of January 9, 1809, cannot apply to this
case so as to make that penal which before was justifiable.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. stopped the counsel, and observed that the court'would never consider the penal
act as applying to previous facts, unless such construction be absolutely unavoidable.

.0/arch S.
MTARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivcered the opinion of the

court as follows:
This suit was instituted on a bond taken in pursu-

PEBRUARY, 1810.

175

mnce of the original embargo act, with a condition that
the cargo of the schooner 'Mary, a ea.letter vessel
should be relanded in the port, of East Portland, or
some other port of the United States, "the dangers of
the seas.only excepted."

TxE U..

Her cargo was not relanded within the United States,
but was carried to Porto Rico and sold. The defendants allege that. they *ere driven by stress of weather
into Porto Rico, where'the cargo was landed by order of
the government; and they insist that the case is Within the exception contained in the condition of the bond.
The circuit court instructed. the jttry that, if they believed the testimony, it was sufficient in law, to bar
the action. To this opinion the counsel for the United States excepted; and its propriety is now to be
considered.
The improbability of the allegations made by the defendants is no longer the subject of inquiry.. The jury
have verified them, and the court must receive them as
true. The testimony is, that the Mary was driven by
tempestuous weather into a foreign port. That, while
prosecuting her.voyage, she en' ountered weather which
so disabled both the crew and vessel,. and put her in such
a situation that, to escape Nantucket Shoals, "she was
obliged to change her-course,, and endeavour to gain
a southern port." She changed her course and bore for
Charleston. - But such: was the condition of th1 crew
and of the vessel, and so'severe and so adverls were
the winds, that she "could not make Charleston, nor
any other port of the United. States, and was obliged
to bear away for the West Indies, to-obtain relief.." .
The vessel, then, was driven into Porto Rico by the
cause which forms the exception in the condition of
the bond, and if the cargo had been lost at the mouth
of the harbbur, instead of entering the port, all would
admit that the penalty of the bond had hot been incurred.
But it is contended that the dangers of the seai terminated on entering, the port, and that no sufficient cause
is shown for not bringing back the cargo to die United
States.

H'.

S

SUi1'ME tOURT If S.
T4hL3 U S

"
.

oof Porto Ricolisstr.
The 'e- estates that theg&Ve~
ed,am-order that the: eargo shotld be landed and sold,
,*ithwhich order the captain wa-'bfigdto coniply."

As thii case ii stated, the Mary was- driven into
Porto Rico, afid the sale'of her'cargo, while there,was.
inevitable, The. dangers of the sea placed her ,in a
situai" which. put.it -odit of. he power Qf the.owners to
reland her c rgo within the United 'States. The 6bligor-,. then; wera prevented~tby the.d-4ngers of the seas,.
from complying with the cofidition of the. bona ; for ai
effect,, which -proceeds inevitably,'and of absblute necessity fom a specified" cause, ,must be ,ascribed to that
cause.
-"Ii it. the unanimous opinion of this cqurt that there
is'do.'errbi in the prodeedings of !he circuit courtandOthat thejudgment be tiffirmedu

.CAMPBELL v. GORDON AND. WIFE,

THIS was an. apeal from a- decree of- the ciretit"
A ce'tificate
by a tompe- court for Aie district of Virginia, dismissing the bill of
lainanto
tent courtthat
an alien hasta- the coni
-

ken the

oath
y

'The case was stated by WASHINGTox, Jg in deliver.
iug
the opinion of tlhis court, as. follows:.
ing naturaliza',
prescribed
thc actrespet.tion,

raises a

thecourt
was the
satisfied
as
.moral
to

The. pbject of the kll was to rescind a contract

made between the appellant and Robert Gordon, tfie

of a tract of land by the latter to
ground of .a defect of title. T'e
to the Rcts ku thecast, which are not disputed, appear to be
ment
principles
of- as follows.
The land which forms-the.. ubject of dis. "
-the constitu..
to James Currie, a cittien of Virginia,
pute.
belonged
""oftheUni
died eised thaireof in fee, on the 1,3)& of April,
ted'States, &-c. %who
Trheoathwhen IO I, intestate,'and without- issue. Jimue; Currie had
,le rinfets one broiher of thewhole blood, nfamed William, who,
, of appellee, for the sale
the alien, and t4e former,'ttpor-thp
of his attach- f

character

4..itn~

-

iaot "he there
itlat

'is
s

rior to the 14th day. of October, in the year t795, was
uib
iyt of Great Britain, but who emiof th'e-Ktig
a subject

