SUPREME COURT U. S.
AmTAELE
Luocv
Lc

never passed any law prohibiting the importation of
slaves.

T.B U. S.
'":'

It was contended by Rodney, Attorney-General, that
as congress by the act of the 26th of March, 1804, pro.
hibited the importation of slaves from foreign countries
into the territory of Orleans, and as the same act expressly extends to the territory the act-of the .28th of
February, 1803, which forfeits the.ship which imports
a slave into a state where such importation is prohibited,
the evident meaning and intention of congress was, to
declare that the vessel should be forfeited i hich ihould
import a slave into the territory of Orleans.
E. Lzvzng ston, contra, contended, that inasmuch as
the territorial legislature of -Orleans had never prohibited such importation, the act of the 28th of February, 1803, did not apply. If the territory is -to be
assimilated to a state, so as to brng the case within
the spirit of the law, yet, there must have been a prohibition by the territorial legislature, to make it a parallel case.
And of that opinion was this court, the -case having
been submitted without argument.
Sentence reversed,

SERE AND LARALDE - .'PITOT AND OTHERS,

A

general as-

ERROR ,tothe district court of -the United States

rof
the for the district of Orleans, in a suit in equity, in which
s',e,,1e
e t.Ls of ax,
insolvent can- Sere.& Laralde were complainants, against Pitot and
su
tseothers, defindants,
not
feiieralcors
if his assignor

not those
have
The complainants stated, that they were aliens, and
could
sued| in
syndics of the creditors of the joint concern of Dumas
courts.
The citizens & Janeau, Pierre Lavergne and Joseph Faurie, that
"
of the territom
r " of Orleans Faurke died insolvent, that Dumas & Jaeau were

FEBRUARY, 1810.

333

szRy.
also, insolvent, and made a surrender of all-their effects
PITOT.
to their creditors, and that Lavergne acknowledged
hlais~lf to be unable to pay the debts of the joint con-.
sue and
cern; that the joint concern, as well as the individual may
be sued in the
members, being insolvent, -application was made'by 'd1itzct court
their creditors to the superior court of the territory of of that territOOrleans, and such proceedings were thereupon had that, cses in which
of
citiz-,
according to the laws of the said territory, the corn- aKentucky
may
be
plamants were, at a mbeting of the creditors of the said sue and the
in Ken.
sued of
S -court
parinership, dulynomitlated syndics for the said creditors, and, by the laws of the said territory, all the estete, ,tu Ky.
rights and credits of the said partners/np were vested
in thecomplainants." They also stated that the defendants were citizens of the United States.
The defendants pleaded to the 3urisdiction, and-the
court below allowed the plea.
error; contended,
.E. Livingston, for the plaintiffs in.
1. That the eleventh section of the judiciary act of
1789 did not apply to those assignees to whom the cho-.
ses in action of an insolvent -were transferred by operation of law, as in the case of executors and adminis.
trators. 4"Cranch, 306. Chappedelane v. Decheneau,
and,
2. That under the third article of the constitution of
the United States, and the judiciary act of 1789, it
was sufficient to aver one of the partes to be a citizen
of the United States, generally, if the. other party
were an alien. It is to be presumed that he was
a citizen of some one of the states.
Harper, contra.
The judiciary act is express in prohibiting a suit in
the federal court by-an,assignee, if the suit could not
havw been maintained between the origini parties.
The expression is general, "or other chose in action,"
whith comprehends the present case.
By the constitution, if one partr 'be ain alien the

334
SESPTroT.

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

other must be a citizen of one-of the states; it is not
sufficient that he be a citizen of .one of the territories
of the United States.
The case of Chalppedelatne was that of an admimstrator; this is of a mere assignee.
ivzngston, in reply
The act of congress speaks of recovering the contents of a chose in action, evidently- referring only tb
cases of individual assigniments of'partculir choses in
action, not to a general assignment of all his effects by
qai insolvent.
.iJarch 1"
MARSHALL,

,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court as follows, viz;
This suit was brought-in the court of the United
6tates for the Orleans territorv, bv the, plintiffs, %vho
are alins, and syndics or assignees of a trading company composed of citizens of that territory, who have
become insolvent. Fhe defendants are citizens of the
territory, and have pleaded to the jurisdiction of the
court. Their plea was sustained, and the cause now
comes 6n to be heard on a writ of error to that judgtJ
ment.
Two objections are, made to the jurisdiction ot the
district court.
1. That the suit is brought by the assignees of a
chov zs action , in a case where it could not have been
prosecuted, if no assignment had been made.
2. That the district court cannot entertain juri'sdiction, because the defendants are not citizens of any
state.

The first objection rests on the 1 th section of the
judicial act, which declares "that. no district or
circuit court shall have cognisance of any suit to

FEBRUARY, 1810.

335

cover the contents of any promissory note, or other"
chose in action, in favour of an assignee, unlkss a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court, to recover
the said contents, if no assignment had been made2
The plaintiffs are admitted to *be the assignees of a
chose in action; but it is contended that they are not
within-the meaning of the provision which has been
cited, because this is a suit !or cash, bills and notes,
gruer'dly, b, ptrsons to whom the law transfers them,
and not by such an assignee as is contemplated in the
judicial act. The words of the act are said toapply
obvifiuslv to assignments made by the party himself,
on an actual notV, or other chose in action, assignable by
the proprietor thereof, -and that the -word 11 contents?'
cannot, by any fair construction, be applied to accounts
or unliquidated claims. Apprehensions, it is saii,
were entertained that fictitious assignments might be
made to give jurisdiction to a federal court, and, to
guarl against this mischief, every -case of an assignment
by a party holding transferable paper, was excepted
from the jurisdicuon of the federal courts, unless the
original holder might have sued in them.
Without doubt, assignable paper, being the chose in
action most usually transferred, was in the mind of
the legislature when the law was framed, and the
words of the provision are therefore best adapted to
that.class of assignments. But there is no reason to
believe that the legislature were not equally disposed to
except from the jurisdiction of the federal courts those
who could sue in virtue of tquitable assignments; and
those who could sue in virtue of legal assignments.
The assignee of all the open accounts of a merchant
might, under certain circumstances, be permitted to
sue in equity, in his own name, and there would be as
much reason .o exclude him from the federal courts,
as to exclude the same person, when the assignee
of a particular note. The term " other chose in
action" is broad enough to comprehend, either
t
case; 'and the word "1contents," is too ambiguous
in its import, to restrain that general term. The,
"contents" of a note are the sum it shows to be due .

SE.4ir
PxTVaT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
S9Zn

V~.

PIOT.

nnd-the same may, without much violence to hulmlage,
be said of an account..
The circumstance, that.the assignment was made by
operation of law, and not by the act of the party,
raight- probably take the case'out of the policy of the
get, but not out of its letter and meaning. The legi. .
lature has made no exception in favour of assignments
so mafde. Itnis still'a suit to recover a chose rn action
m favour of anwassignee, which suit could not have
been ,prosecuted if no assignment bao been made;
and, is therefore within the very terms of the law.
The case decided, in 4 Cranch was on a suit brought
by an administrator, and a residuary legatee; who were
b-oth aliens. The representatives of a deceased person
are -ot usually designated bv the term "assignees,"
Aiu are, therefore, not within the words of the act.
'hat case, therefore, is not deemed a full precedent
for this.
It is the opinion of the court that the plainfiffs had

iV right to. maintain this suit in the district court
against a citizen of the Orleans territory, they being
the assignees of persons who were also citizens of that
teritory
It is of so much importance to the people of Orleans
to decide on the second objection, that the court will
proceed to consider that likewise.
Whether the citizens of the territory of Orleans are
to be considered at the citizens bfa state, within' the
meaning of the constitution, is a question of some diffi;.
culty which would be decided, should one of them sue
il any of the circuit courts of the United States. The
present -inquiry is limited, to' a suit -brought by or
against.a citizen of the territory, in the cDstrict court
of.-Orleans.
The power of governing and of legislating for a territory is the inevitable. consequence tof the rigiL to
acquire and to hold territory. Could this position be
-contested, the constitution of the United States de-

FEBRUARY, 1810.

357

olares that 11 congress shall .have power to dispose of

and make all needful rules and regulaians~ectig

the territory or other property belonging. to the Uni.
te4 States." Accordihgly, we find congress possessmg and exercising the absolute and undisputed power
of governing and legislating 6r the territory of'Orleaus. Congress has given them a legislative, an executive, and ajudiciary, with such powers as it has-been
their will to assign to those departments respectively.
The court possesses the same jurisdiction which
was possessed by the court of Kentucky. "In the
court of Kentucky, a citizen of 'Kentucky may sue or
be sued. But it is said that this privilege is not imparted to a citizen of .Orleans, because he is not a
citizen of a state. But this objection is founded on
the idea that the constitution restrains congress from
giving the court of the territory jurisdiction over a
case brought by or againsra citizen of the. territory.
This idea is most clearly not to be sustained, and, of
consequence, iliat court must be considered as having
such jurisdiction as congress intended to give it.
Let us inquire what would be the jurisdicuon of the
court, on.this restricted construction.
It would have no jurisdiction over a suit, brought
by or agaitist a citizen of the territory, although an
alien, or a citizen of another state might be a party.
It-would ha6e no jurisdiction over a suit brought by
a citizen of one state, against a citizen of another state
because neither party would be a citizen of the "state'
in which the court sat. Of what civil causes, then,
between private individuals, would it have jurisdiction?
Only of suits between an alien end a Citizen'ofanbther.
state who should be found in Orleans. Can this be
presumed to have been the intention of the legislature
in giving the territory a court possessing the samejh-,. °
risdicuon and power with that of KentuckyThe principal motire for giving federal courts ju.risdictron, is to securo alicns and attizens of other",
VoL VT.

IT it

SZgR

PITV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
states fiom local prejudlcs. Yet all who" could haaffected by them are, by this construction, excluded
from those courts. There could ,scarcely ever be a
•civil action between individuils of which the court could
--take cognisance, and if such a case should arise, it would
-be'one in which no prejudice is to be apprehended.

V.Z
V*i.XToT.

* It is the. unanimous .opinion of the court that, by a
fair construction of the act, the citizens of the territory
of Orleans may sue and he sued in that court in the
sanie cass *inwhich a citiien of Kentucky my sue
-and be sued in the court of Kentucky.
Judgment affirmed with costs&

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY, v
RUDEN'S ADMINISTRATOR.

What isrea. ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Blarydn
tdinfs rn
for aban6".-Jand inan ation of'covenant upon a policy of insurance
raentisa ques- upon the cargo of the brig Sally at and from Surinam.
sonable

tion for theju.

ry to decide to New-York.
under- the di-

of a

rection
court.

The operation
of a concealnent, on the

There was no warranty as to the, character of the
propertyo

policy,

deUpon the trial below the plaintiffs in error took three
pends on its bills of exception; and the verdict 'and judgment bemateriality to
the rik; and ing against them, they brought their, writ of error.
this materiality
is asribjcct for.Th

the considera- The cause was argued by Winder and All-rrin, for the
tion of ajury.
pa n iff
in error,and by Harper,f6r the defendant.
of lading
A bill
statingthe property to belong to A
and .B.
is not

The case being fully stated by the Chief Justice in
delivering the ,opinion of the court, it is deemed unneconclusive eelcessary to report the arguments of counsel.'
dunce, and does
not estop J.
from

the

arch 17.

showing

property

athero.

to

AARSHAIL, Ch.
as follows:

J. delivered the opinion of the cotrt

