ALASKA PACKERS ASSO. v. ACCDT. COMM. 467
463

Syllabus.

Citizenship is a high privilege, and when doubts exist
concerning a grant of it, generally at least, they should be
resolved in favor of the United States and against the
claimant. Swan & Finch Co. v.*United States, 190 U. S.
143, 146. If Aniello had lived, his declaration of intention would have been valueless to him after seven years.
The construction now suggested by respondent would prolong the efficacy of this application for her benefit during
an indefinite period.
The Act of 1906 definitely directs that the petition for
citizenship shall be filed within seven years after the
declaration, and we find nothing in the words used or the
legislative purpose which permits an extension of such
time for the benefit of widows. United States v. Poslusny,
179 Fed. 836; In re Schmidt, 161 Fed. 231, and In re
Shearer, 158 Fed. 839, we think give no substantial support to the contrary view.
The decree of the court below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent.
ALASKA PACKERS ASSOCIATION v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 266.

Argued March 2, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

A person employed by a fishing and canning company as a seaman,
fisherman and for general work in and about a cannery, was injured, after the fishing season was over, while standing upon the
shore and endeavoring to push a stranded fishing boat into navigable water for the purpose of floating it to a nearby dock, where
it was to be lifted out and stored for the winter. Held that the
injury, if within the admiralty jurisdiction, was of such a local
character as to be cognizable under a state compensation law.
P. 469.
73 Calif. Dec. 330, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 512, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California, affirming an award of the
State Industrial Accident Commission.
Mr. Blair S. Shuman, with whom Mr. Allen L. Chickering was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. G. C. Faulkner for respondent Accident Commission.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
While standing on the land in Alaska, respondent Peterson endeavored to push into navigable water a stranded
boat, 26 feet long, theretofore used by him and another
for taking fish, and, while so engaged sustained bodily
injuries. The fishing season had ended, the nets had been
removed, and the boat, partly in the water, was resting
on the sand. The immediate purpose was to float it to
the dock nearby in order that it might be lifted thereon
and stored for the winter, according to the ordinary
practice.
Petitioner is a California corporation engaged in the
business of taking fish in Alaska and canning them at its
factory located in that Territory. Peterson resided in
California. Within that State he entered into a contract
with the Association whereby he agreed to go to Alaska as
a seaman on its bark "Star of Iceland" and, after arriving
at the cannery, to go ashore and act there as directed"anything I was told to do." Among other things, he
made nets, fixed up the small boats always kept there,
took them out, and served as a fisherman on one of
them.
The Industrial Accident Commission of California, purporting to act under the laws of that State, made an award
against the petitioner and in favor of Peterson, and this
was affirmed by the Supreme Court. The judgment is

ALASKA PACKERS ASSO. v. ACCDT. COMM. 469
Opinion of the Court.

467

challenged here upon the sole ground that when injured
he was doing maritime work under a maritime contract
and that the rights and liabilities of the parties must be
determined by applying the general rules of maritime law,
and not otherwise. Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S.
308, Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and
similar cases, are relied upon.
Whether in any possible view the circumstances disclose
a cause within the admiralty jurisdiction, we need not
stop to determine. Even if an affirmative answer be assumed, the petitioner must fail. Peterson was not employed merely to work on the bark or the fishing boat.
He also undertook to perform services as directed on land
in connection with the canning operations. When injured certainly he was not engaged in any work so directly
connected with navigation and commerce that to permit
the rights of the parties to be controlled by the local law
would interfere with the essential uniformity of the general maritime law. The work was really local in character. The doctrine announced in Grant Smith-Porter
Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, and Millers' Ind. Underwriters v. Braud, 270 U. S. 59, 64, is incompatible with
the petitioner's claim.
The judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
Affirmed.
LAMBORN

AL. v. THE NATIONAL BANK OF
COMMERCE OF NORFOLK.
ET

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 163.

Argued January 12, 1928.&-Decided April 9, 1928.

On behalf of a client who had agreed to buy and pay for Java
upon delivery f. o. b. cars at Philadelphia, a bank issued a
of credit to meet the sellers' drafts, which provided, among
conditions, that shipment be made by steamer or steamers

sugar
letter
other
from

