KANSAS CITY SOU. RY. v. JONES.
303

Opinion of the Court.

was so engaged, still more that he was absorbed in such
work. The main track was straight and the train was
making a great noise and showing a bright light as it approached. Nothing except imagination and sympathy
warranted a finding that the death was due to the negligence of the petitioner rather than to that of the man
himself. It is unnecessary to consider whether if the
case for the plaintiff were stronger the principle of Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Nixon, 271 U. S. 218, would
apply.
Judgment reversed.

FAIRBANKS, MORSE & COMPANY ET AL. v. AMERICAN VALVE & METER COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH- CIRCUIT.

No. 262.

Returns to rule to show cause submitted February 20,
1928.-Decided March 19, 1928.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals may decline to reexamine the evidence on appeal when not condensed and stated as required by

Equity Rule 75b. P. 308
2. But where the evidence was stated and approved in accordance
with a practice theretofore prevailing in the circuit with the implied sanction of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and where one of
the judges of that court had made an order declaring that the
transcript was received as a sufficient compliance with the equity
rules, it was error to proceed to a determination of the case without considering the evidence before affording the appellants an
opportunity to comply with Rule 75b, by remitting the transcript
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity therewith. Barber Asphalt Co. v. Standard Co., 275 U. S. 372. P. 308.
3. Such opportunity was not given by an order allowing the appellants to withdraw the transcript for 30 days; they were entitled to
a specific order operating as a direction to the District Court.
P. 309.°
318 -28---20

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

4. Both parties being at fault through having brought the evidence
into the transcript in objectionable form by their express stipulation, and the objection to it having been made by the court of its
own motion, each party is left to pay its own costs in that court
and this, and counsel fees and expenses are not inflicted on the
appellants as in Barber Asphalt Co. v. StandardCo., supra. P. 310.
18 F. (2d) 716, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

274 U. S. 735, to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, affirming, with modifications, a decree
for profits in a patent infringement suit. The Court of
Appeals declined to regxamine the evidence upon the
ground that Equity Rule 79b had not been complied with.
This Court directed the parties to show cause why the
case should not be disposed of in accordance with Barber
Asphalt Co. v. Standard Asphalt Co., 275 U. S. 372.
Messrs. Fred L. Chappell, Carroll J. Lord, and Howard
M. Cox were on the brief for petitioners.
Mr. Frank A. Whitely was on the brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit for an injunction against the infringement
of letters patent and for an accounting. On the first
hearing the suit was dismissed for want of equity; but
on appeal that decree was reversed. 249 Fed. 234. Further proceedings resulted in an accounting before a master,
who returned the evidence taken by him and reported his
findings. Both parties excepted; but the findings were
approved and the plaintiffs were given a decree for the
profits found by the master, with interest from the close
of the infringing period and an allowance for fees paid
to expert accountants. The defendants appealed, their
principal complaint being that the findings and the decree were not in accord with the evidence. The Circuit

FAIRBANKS,
305

ETC., CO.

v. AMERICAN CO. 307

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals declined to examine that complaint because the appellants had- not complied with the provision in equity rule 75b relating to the condensation
and narration of the evidence. The minor complaints
were examined and the decree was approved as to the
profits and interest and was disapproved as to the allowance for payments made to expert accountants. 18 Fed.
(2d) 716.
A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court to enable
it to review the ruling respecting the non-observance of
the equity rule. A like writ already had been granted in
Barber Asphalt Co. v. Standard Asphalt Co., where the
same Circuit Court of Appeals had made a similar ruling.
Our decision in that case was announced recently, 275
U. S. 372; and we then directed the parties in this case to
show cause why it should not be disposed of in accordance
with that decision. Both parties responded in printed
briefs which have been considered.
The pertinent part of equity rule 75b declares: "The
evidence to be included in the record shall not be set
forth in full, but shall be stated in simple and condensed
form, all parts not essential to the decision of the questions presented by the appeal being omitted and the testimony of witnesses being stated only in narrative form,
save that if either party desires it, and the court or judge
so directs, any part of the testimony shall be reproduced
in the exact words of the witness. The duty of so condensing and stating the evidence shall rest primarily on
the appellant .....
" The rule is set forth in full in
the opinion in Barber Asphalt Co. v. Standard Asphalt
Co., and explanation is there made of the reasons for
the rule and of the right practice under it.
In that case the appellant had stated the evidence without appreciable condensation or narration and the statement had been approved by the district court. We agreed

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the statement did
not conform to the rule, or tW its excepting clause, and
that the appellant was not entitled to a rexamination
of the evidence thus wrongly brought into the record.
But we held that the situation was one in which that
court, upon proper terms, should have remitted the transcript to the district court for the purpose of affording the
appellant a further opportunity to conform to the rule.
Our reasons for so holding were that in the Seventh Circuit the judges, both circuit and district, commonly had
permitted the evidence to be stated without condensation
or narration; that the Circuit Court of Appeals had impliedly sanctioned that practice up to the time of its
decision in that case; and that to condemn and reject a
statement of evidence prepared and approved according
to that practice, without according the appellant a further opportunity to conform to the rule, would be so harsh
and unseemly as to be an abuse of discretion.
In this case a part of the testimony was stated in condensed and narrative form; but in the main the requirement respecting condensation and narration was wholly
neglected. Much that was redundant or to no purpose
was included; and document after document was set forth
in full where at most there was need for only a part.
Plainly what was done was not in conformity with the rule
or with its excepting clause. Thus the Circuit Court of
Appeals was justified in declining to rexamine the evidence in the form in which it was stated.
But in our opinion that court, instead of proceeding to
determine the case without considering the evidence,
should have accorded the appellants a further opportunity to have the evidence rightly brought into the -record,
and to that end should have remitted the transcript to the
district court for further proceedings in conformity with
the equity rule. The circumstances surrounding the non-

FAIRBANKS, ETC., CO. v. AMERICAN CO.
305

309

Opinion of the Court.

observance of the rule were substantially identical with
those in Barber Asphalt Co. v. Standard Asphalt Co. In
both the evidence was stated and the statement was approved in accordance with the then prevailing practice in
that circuit, to which the Circuit Court of Appeals impliedly
was giving its sanction. That practice continued up to the
time of that court's decision in Barber Asphalt Co. v.
Standard Asphalt Co., which preceded its decision in this
case only a few days. There was in this case the additional circumstance that, when the transcript was filed in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, it was brought to the attention of one of the judges of that court, and he then made
an order declaring that it was "received as a sufficient
compliance with the equity rules." In the other case we
directed that a further opportunity be given for complying
with the rule, and we think the reasons assigned for that
ruling are equally applicable here.
The appellees suggest that the appellants were accorded
such an opportunity after the Circuit Court of Appeals
gave its decision and that the opportunity was waived.
The court did make an order granting a rehearing and
giving the appellants leave "to withdraw the transcript"
for a period of thirty days. The purpose in giving the
leave was not stated, but left to conjecture. Nothing was
said about further proceedings in the district court looking
to a compliance with the rule or about a remission of the
transcript. We think the mere leave to withdraw it was
not enough. The fault was not in the transcript but in
the proceedings had in the district court whereby the evidence was attempted to be made a part of the record.
That court hardly would have regarded the order as requiring it to take up those proceedings anew. The appellants were entitled to a specific order operating as a
direction to the district court. Apparently the Circuit
Court of Appeals doubted its power in the premises and

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1027.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

for that reason was not disposed to give such an order.
We think the suggested waiver has no real basis.
The record does not show whether the rehearing was
had, but does show that the court made an order reciting
that it adhered to its original opinion and directing that
the decree entered thereon be re-entered.
We come then to the terms upon which the appellants
should be given further opportunity to get the evidence
into the record in accordance with the rule. Of course
they should be required to proceed with reasonable dispatch. In Barber Asphalt Co. v. Standard Asphalt Co.,
we directed that the appellant be required to pay a stated
sum by way of reimbursing the appellee for counsel fees
and expenses incurred in securing the elimination of the
irregular and objectionable statement of evidence, and
also to pay the costs in the Circuit Court of Appeals and
in this Court. There the appellee had objected in the
Circuit Court of Appeals at the outset that the rule had
not been complied with and therefore that the evidence
could not be considered. Here the evidence was brought
into the record in the irregular and objectionable form
under an express stipulation between the parties to which
both adhered up to the time of the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Thus both parties were at fault. In
condemning the statement of the evidence the Circuit
Court of Appeals acted on its own motion. In these circumstances we think the appellants should not be required
to make any payment by way of reimbursing the appellees
for counsel fees or expenses, and that each party should
be left to pay its costs in this Court and also its costs in
the Circuit Court of Appeals up to the time our mandate
is carried into effect there.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordinfgly reversed and the cause is remanded to that court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Decree reversed.

