OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

276 U. S.

We conclude that the involuntary petition filed against
the Provision Company, which did not in terms seek an
adjudication that the Beckers were bankrupts as individuals, nor allege that as individuals they were insblvent
or had committed any acts of bankruptcy, was not in
legal effect a petition filed against them individually, and
the adjudication under that petition that the partnership
was a bankrupt, was not in legal effect an adjudication
that they were bankrupts individually. There is hence
no ground, under either § 67c or § 67f of the Act, for
annulling the judgment liens obtained upon their individual real estate more than eight months prior to the
filing of their voluntary petitions.
Reversed.
COMMERCIAL CREDIT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 258.

Argued November 21, 22, 1927.--Decided February 20,
1928.

1. Upon review by certiorari, no questions will be considered except
those on which the petition for the writ was based. P. 229.
2. Where a person discovered in the act of unlawfully transporting intoxicating liquor in a vehicle is proceeded against as prescribed by
§ 26 of the Prohibition Act, and convicted of the unlawful possession incident to the transportation, the vehicle must be disposed of
under that section also, which provides protection for the interests
of innocent owners or lienors, and not under Rev. Stats. § 3450,
which does not provide such protection. P. 232.
17 F. (2d) 902, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 511, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree of the District
Court, forfeiting a motor vehicle under § 3450 of the
Revised Statutes upon the ground that it had been used

COMMERCIAL CREDIT CO. v. U. S.
226

Argument for the United States.

in the removal, deposit and concealment of intoxicating
liquor, with intent to defraud the United States of the
tax thereon. The present petitioner intervened in the
libel proceedings to assert its title to the car.
Mr. Duane R. Dills,with whom Messrs. FrankH. Towsley, John J. Kennett, and Charles W. Haswell were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt and Mr. Mahlon
D. Kiefer, Chief Attorney, Department of Justice, wire
on the brief, for the United States.
There is no direct conflict between § 26 and § 3450.
Section 26 may be construed to make forfeiture proceedings under it permissive, not mandatory. A provision
in one statute authorizing forfeiture of guilty interests in
a car used for illegal transportation, is not in direct conflict with another statute providing that the whole value
of the vehicle may be forfeited if its use is in violation of
,the Revenue or Customs Laws.
Mere institution of a prosecution for an offense under
one statute does not bar proceedings for a violation of
another. Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365; Albrecht
v. United States, 273 U. S. 1; Morey v. Commonwealth,
108 Mass. 433; United States v. Torres, 291 Fed. 138;
United States v. One Ford Coupe, 272 U. S. 321; Port
GardnerInvestment Company v. United States, 272 U. S.
564.
A conviction of the individual for illegal possession, or
any other offense, excepting illegal transportation, under
the National Prohibition Act, is no bar to a proceeding
in rem for forfeiture of the vehicle for tax evasion under
§ 3450. Such a proceeding is not .a prosecution within
the meaning of § 5 of the Supplemental Act. There is no
such offense as "possession in transportation." Where a

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

conviction for possession occurs, no forfeiture of a vehicle
under § 26 is entailed, and that section does not come into
operation.
The finding of the District Court that an internalrevenue tax was due and unpaid is not open to question
here, because not raised in the application for certiorari.
See United States v. One Ford Coupe, supra; Port Gardner Investment Comp'any case, supra; United States v.
385 Barrels of Wine, 300 Fed. 565.
Mr. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a libel brought by the United States in November, 1925, in the Federal court for the Western District
of Washington, under § 3450 of the Revised Statutes,' to
forfeit a Ford coupe upon the ground that it had been used
in the removal, deposit and concealment of intoxicating
liquor, with intent to defraud the United States of the tax
thereon. The Commercial Credit Co. intervened as
claimant, asserting title to the car and alleging that it
had no knowledge that the car was used or intended to be
used in violation of law.
By stipulation of the parties the case was heard by the
district judge without the intervention of a jury. The
evidence showed that in October a customs inspector who,
in consequence of reports that this car was being used to
distribute Canadian liquor about the city of Seattle, had
'U. S. C., Tit. 26, § 1181. This section provides that: "Whenever any goods or commodities for or in respect whereof any tax is

or shall be imposed . . are removed, or are deposited or concealed
in any place, with intent to defraud the United States of such tax,
every vessel, boat, cart, carriage, or other conveyance whatsoever
used in the removal or for the deposit or concealment thereof,
respectively, shall be forfeited."

COMMERCIAL CREDIT CO. v. U. S.
226

Opinion of the Court.

watched its movements for some days, discovered one
Campbell-who had purchased the car under a conditional
sale--in the act of backing the car out of an alley in the
rear of his house, stopped the car, searched it, found that
it contained thirteen quarts of whiskey and gin, arrested
Campbell, and seized the car. The liquor bore labels indicating that it was of foreign manufacture, and there were
no stamps on the bottles showing the payment of duty or
internal revenue taxes. It was also stipulated at the hearing that Campbell was prosecuted in the District Court
under the National Prohibition Act 2 on the charges of
" unlawful possession and transportation of liquor and
plead guilty to unlawful possession, whereupon the Government dismissed as to the transportation, and that
covers the identical transaction here involved." Thereafter the Government brought the libel to forfeit the car.,
At the close of the evidence the claimant moved to dismiss
the libel, on the ground, among others, that the United
States had elected to proceed under the National Prohibition Act and was barred from proceeding under § 3450.
The district judge denied this motion, and entered a decree
condemning and forfeiting the car to the United States.
This was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
held that as Campbell's conviction of unlawfully possessing intoxicating liquor was under § 3 of Title II of the
Prohibition Act and did not entail a disposition of the
car under § 26 of that Title, the Government was at liberty
to proceed under § 3450 for the forfeiture of the car. 17
F. (2d) 902.
The petition for the writ of certiorari was based solely
on the ground that under § 26 of the Prohibition Act the
241

Stat. 305, c. 85; U. B. C., Tit. 27.

8 This appeared inferentially and, we understand, is admitted.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Government was barred from proceeding to forfeit the car
under § 3450; and no other question will be considered.
Alice State Bank v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240,
242; Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co., 264 U. S. 463, 464;
Steele, Executor, v. Drummond, 275 U. S. 199.
Sec. 26 provides that: "When the commissioner, his
assistants, inspectors, or any officer of the law shall discover any person in the act of transporting in violation of
the law, intoxicating liquors in any wagon, buggy, automobile, water or air craft, or other vehicle, it shall be his
duty to seize any and all intoxicating liquors found therein
being transported contrary to law. Whenever intoxicating liquors transported or possessed illegally shall be seized
by an officer he shall take possesion of the vehicle . . and
shall arrest any person in charge thereof. Such officer
shall at once proceed against the person arrested under the
provisions of this title in any court having competent
jurisdiction, but the said vehicle or conveyance shall be
returned to the owner upon execution by him of a good
and valid bond . . approved by said officer and . conditioned to return said property to the custody of said
officer on the day of trial to abide the judgment of the
court. The court upon conviction of the person so
arrested . . unless good cause to the contrary is shown
by the owner, shall order a sale by public auction of the
property seized, and the officer making the sale, after deducting the expenses of keeping the property, the fee for
the seizure, and the cost of the sale, shall pay all liens,
according to their priorities, which are established, by
intervention or otherwise at said hearing or in other proceeding brought for said purpose, as being bona fide and
as having been created without the lienor having any
notice that the carrying vehicle was being used or was to
be used for illegal transportation of liquor, and shall pay
the balance of the proceeds into the Treasury of the
United States as miscellaneous receipts."

COMMERCIAL CREDIT CO. v. U. S.
226

Opinion of the Court.

The essential distinction between § 26 and § 3450 in so
far as relates to the forfeiture of a vehicle is that where
§ 26 is the only applicable provision for its forfeiture the
interests of innocent owners and lienors are not forfeited,
but where it may be forfeited under § 3450 by reason of
its use to evade the payment of a tax the interests of those
who are innocent are not saved. United States v. One
Ford Coupe, 272 U. S. 321, 325.
In Port GardnerCo. v. United States, 272 U. S. 564, 566,
which came to this Court on a certificate of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the driver of an automobile, seized by
prohibition agents, had been charged with possession and
transportation of intoxicating liquor in violation of the
Prohibition Act, and had pleaded guilty to both charges
and been sentenced. In answering one of the questions
presented by the certificate we held that the "prosecution
with effect" of the driver of a car under the National
Prohibition Act constituted "an election by the Government to proceed under § 26 of that Act," and thereby prevented the forfeiture of the car under § 3450. As to this
we said: "The disposition of the automobile prescribed
in § 26 became mandatory after" the driver's "conviction; and being inconsistent with the disposition under
§ 3450 necessarily precluded resort to proceedings under
the latter section."
The claimant states that the question here presented is
that which was referred to in a concurring opinion in the
Port Gardner Co. case, 567, namely, "whether the prohibition officer discovering one in the act of transportation
may disregard the plain and direct commands of § 26 to
proceed against the vehicle as there directed "; and on that
assumption the arguments have been largely directed to
the question whether, whenever an officer discovers a
person in the act of transporting intoxicating liquor in a
vehicle, the provisions of § 26 become mandatory in such
sense as to furnish the exclusive remedy for the forfeiture

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

of the vehicle.' But, since it appears that the officer in
fact seized the vehicle and arrested Campbell, who was in
fact proceeded against under the Prohibition Act, the
question of the officer's duty to proceed under 1§26 is not
here involved.
In this case Campbell was prosecuted both for the unlawful possession and the unlawful transportation of the
intoxicating liquors. These are made criminal offenses by
§ 3 of Title II of the Prohibition Act, and are punishable
under § 29 of that Title. Sec. 26-although not in itself
making either of these acts a criminal offense-provides
that when an officer discovers a person in the act of unlawfully transporting intoxicating liquor in a vehicle, he
shall seize both the vehicle and the intoxicating liquors
"transported or possessed illegally," arrest such person,
and proceed against him under the Prohibition Act; and
that if such person is convicted the vehicle shall be disposed of as therein prescribed.
The stipulation in this case, read in the light of the
evidence, shows that the unlawful possession for which
Campbell was prosecuted, and of which he pleaded guilty,
was not a separate possession antecedent to and independent of the transportation-which would not have
entailed a forfeiture of the car under § 26--but was the
possession involved in and incidental to the transportation
itself, that is, the '.possession in transportation" referred
to in United States v. One Ford Coupe, supra, 334.
Campbell's conviction on the charge of such possession,
following his arrest when discovered in the act of transportation, required, we think, a disposition of the car
under the provisions of § 26. That section, read in its
entirety, governs the disposition of the car where the
4 This question was not involved in United States v. One Ford

Coupe, supra, 334, in which it did not appear that any person had
been discovered in the act of transporting intoxicating liquor in the
car.

HELLMICH v. HELLMAN.
226

Syllabus.

person in charge of the vehicle is convicted of the unlawful
possession incidental to the transportation, as well as
where he is convicted of the unlawful transportation itself.
Therefore, under the doctrine of the Port Gardner Co.
case, the disposition of the car under § 26 becoming
mandatory after Campbell's conviction "and being inconsistent with the disposition under § 3450, necessarily precluded resort to a proceeding under the latter section."
This renders it unnecessary to consider whether, if
Campbell had not been convicted of the unlawful possession, the Government's voluntary dismissal of the charge
of unlawful transportation, before trial, would likewise
have precluded a resort to § 3450.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
and the cause will be remanded to the District Court with
instructions to dismiss the libel.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

did not sit in this case.

HELLMICH, COLLECTOR, v. ISADORE N. HELLMAN.
SAME v. MILTON C. HELLMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 299, 300. Argued January 4, 5, 1928.-Decided February 20,

1928.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1918, amounts distributed to the stockholders of a liquidating corporation out of earnings and profits
accumulated by the corporation since February 28, 1913, are not
to be treated as "dividends," which, under § 201 (a), are exempt
from normal, tax, but as payments made by the corporation in
exchange for its stock, which are taxable" as other gains or profits."
§ 201 (c). P. 236.

