DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
499

Syllabus.

by the later decision which, while repudiating the construction under which the unlawful exaction was made,
leaves the monies thus exacted in the public treasury.
But it is said that the taxing officers of the county, in
view of the later decision, now have the power to tax the
shares of state banks and thus bring about an equality.
As to this it is unnecessary to say more than that it nowhere appears that these officers, if they possess the
power, have undertaken to exercise it or that they have
any intention of ever doing so. It will be soon enough
to invite consideration of this purely speculative suggestion when, if ever, the taxing officials shall have put it
into practical effect.
Finally, it is urged that plaintiff in error may not maintain this action because of its failure to apply to the
county board of equalization for an administrative remedy. We do not stop to inquire whether under any circumstances such remedy was open to the taxpayer, for
the short answer is that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Montana in the Rogers case would have rendered any such application utterly futile since the county
board of equalization was powerless to grant any appropriate relief in the face of that conclusive decision. See
Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319, 321; Whitbeck v.
Mercantile Bank, 127 U. S. 193, 199. Compare, First
Natl. Bank v. Weld County, 264 U. S. 450, 454-455.
Judgment reversed.
DONNELLEY'v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110.

Argued November 22, 1927. Reargued January 19,1928.Decided April 9, 1928.

1. After certification of a question by the Circuit Court of Appeals,

the entire record was ordered up. Plaintiff in error filed no state-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Donnelley.

276 U. S.

ment of points or specification of errors to be relied on, nor any
brief other than one filed after the certification, dealing with the
question certified. Held that review would be confined to that
question. Rule 25, Par. 2 (e), Par. 4; Rule 11, Par. 9. P. 511.
2. The general clause of § 29, Title II of the Prohibition Act providing that any person who "violates any of the provisions of this
Title for which offense a special penalty is not prescribed, shall be
fined for the first offense not more than $500" etc., applies to a
prohibition director who, having knowledge that a person has
possessed and transported intoxicating liquor contrary to the Act,
violates his duty under § 2 by intentionally failing to report the
case to the United States Attorney. P. 511.
3. The rule that penal statutes are to be strictly construed in favor
of persons accused; is not violated by allowing the language to
have its full meaning where that construction is in harmony with
the context and supports the policy and purposes of the enactment.
P. 512.
4. Public officers are not attended by any special presumption that
general language in disciplinary measures does not extend to them.
P. 516.
District Court affirmed.
REVIEW

of a judgment of the District Court for the Dis-

trict of Nevada, sentencing Donnelley, a prohibition

director, for wilful failure to report a violation of the Prohibition Act. The case came here first on a question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Whole record
was then ordered up.
Mr. Frank H. Norcross, with whom Mr. Henry M. Hoyt
was on the brief, for Donnelley.
Section 2 was not intended to define or embrace a penal
offense. An attempt to give it a penal character leads
to absurd results. So construed, the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, his assistants, agents and inspectors,
are guilty of a misdemeanor if they fail to investigate
and report any violation of the Act coming to, or which
should have come to, their knowledge. A third dereliction would amount to a felony. So construed, it becomes

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
505

Argument for Donnelley.

the duty of the Commissioner, his assistants, agents and
inspectors, not only to investigate offenses in connection
with liquor violations, but each must investigate every
other officer with whom he is associated and report him
if such officer has failed so to investigate and report.
The section is a purely administrative provision prescribing in the most general language, and not with the
particularity required in penal provisions, the duty of
administrative officers in investigating and reporting such
violations of the Act as are by its terms made "offenses."
If § 2 is penal, then Congress intended to take all discretion from officers entrusted with enforcement, and they
cannot, as has been the practice, without themselves becoming violators, determine what class or character of
violators it is most advantageous, for the purpose of real
enforcement, to investigate and report, nor determine in
any case under investigation when or whether evidence
has been secured sufficient to justify prosecution.
Section 38 of the Prohibition Act provides for three
classes of officers, two of which are specifically designated
as "executive officers" and as " agents and inspectors in
the field service," and the third class includes experts,
clerical assistants, etc. By the very terms of the statute,
executive officers have nothing to do with the real work
of investigating officers.
By the provisions of §§ 1800 and 1810 of Article XVIII
of the Regulations prescribed by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, the Director must maintain an office
not to be closed within certain prescribed hours and must
be in attendance except when on leave or temporary absence. By the terms of the Regulations, the Director
cannot be an investigating officer in the strict or practical
sense. Upon the other hand, it is equally as manifest
that investigating or field officers are not supposed to
make reports to the United States Attorneys of the re-

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Donnelley.

276 U. S.

sults of their investigation, which is the appropriate function of the directing officers under whatever name
designated.
If § 2 is penal, it is not enough for an officer either to
investigate or report; he must do both, regardless of the
general character of his duties, and this of course, applies
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue especially.
Section 2 fails to say when reports shall be made. An
offense may be discovered, but it may take weeks, months,
or even years, to discover the offender and secure evidence
to justify prosecution. Must an efficient officer report
bare knowledge of an offense, and thus frustrate efforts
to discover the perpetrator, or may he exercise his judgment as to when is the proper time to report? Is a prohibition officer subject to prosecution because his judgment happens to differ from that of a United States Attorney as to when an offense should be reported?
Section 2 contains not a single characteristic of a penal
statute. Few reading it would ever suspect that it might
be so intended. Even if it had included a specific provision that a violation of it would constitute an offense,
an officer could not tell what he would have to do to comply with its terms so as to be immune from punishment.
Section 29 was not intended to apply to the purely administrative provisions of the Act. The general clause is
limited to the same character of offenses previously specifically mentioned. The rule of ejusdem generis is clearly
applicable.
The use of the word "offense" in the general clause indicates a legislative intent to prescribe a punishment only
for the violation of those prohibitions or commands in
relation to manufacture, transportation or disposition of
liquor, which it was the purpose of the Act to regulate or
prevent, and for which offenses a special penalty had not
been prescribed.

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
505

Argument for the United States.

It is inconceivable that Congress contemplated that the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and his subordinate
officers might be repeatedly prosecuted and punished for
violating the administrative provisions of the Act.
United States v. Seibert, 2 F. (2d) 80.
It has never been the theory of the Government that
public officers will perform their duties only in fear of
prosecution for dereliction of duty. Only in rare instances
and exclusively in matters pertaining to public revenues,
is a failure to make reports made penal, and in those
cases the time and character of the report are clearly prescribed and the penalty for failure definitely expressed.
Rev. Stats. § 3169; Comp. Stats. § 5889.
A construction of the Act which would provide the
means for meddlesome interference with the policy of
executive enforcement officers would be far from a liberal
construction "to the end that the use of intoxicating
liquor as a beverage may be prevented."
A new offense will not be deemed to have been created
by statute unless the legislature has expressed its will in
language sufficiently explicit to be apparent to the common mind. It is only when a statufe clearly and plainly
subjects parties and acts to its denunciation that they
may be lawfully punished thereunder. Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385; United States v.
Noveck, 272 U. S. 202; United States v. Katz, 271 U. S.
354; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 14; First Nat'l Bank
v. United States, 206 Fed. 374.
Assistant Attorney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt,
with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Norman J. Morrisson and John J. Byrne, Attorneys in the
Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the United
States.
The provision in § 29 that any person who violates any
provision of Title II of the National Prohibition Act shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

be guilty of a criminal offense does not seem to have been
intended to punish administrative officers and United
States Attorneys for failure to perform the numerous
duties imposed on them by the Act. While the question
is one on which opinions may differ, the better reason
supports the view that it was not intended by § 29 to
punish as a crime the failure of an administrative officer
to report to the United States Attorney a case justifying
prosecution.
If the statfite is construed to make that an offense, then
it was error for the trial court to refuse to charge the
jury that a violation of the Act did not occur unless the
official had evidence sufficient to reasonably warrant
prosecution. The other charges refused or given and
complained of do not disclose prejudicial error.
If the statute covers the case, the evidence was sufficient to go to the jury on the question whether the plaintiff in error had in bad faith neglected to report for prosecution a case where he had sufficient evidence to warrant
prosecution.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Defendant was the Prohibition Director for Nevada.
An information filed in the United States court for that
district charged that he, having knowledge of the unlawful possession and transportation of intoxicating liquor
by one Curran, did wilfully and unlawfully fail to report
such violations to the United States Attorney. The jury
found him guilty and the court imposed a fine of $500.
Alleging various grounds for reversal, he took the case
to the Circuit Court of Appeals. That court, acting
under § 239 of the Judicial Code, certified to this Court
a question concerning which it desired instruction. Defendant submitted the question upon a brief. Later we
required the entire record to be sent up, and so brought

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
505

Opinion of the Court.

the case here for decision. The United States filed additional briefs. Oral arguments were made for the respective parties. But defendant failed to submit any
other brief or to file any statement of points or specification of errors intended to be urged here. Rule 25, Par.
2(e), Par. 4. And see Rule 11, Par. 9. We confine our
consideration to the question argued in his brief. Southeastern Express Co. v. Robertson, 264 U. S. 541. Home
Benefit Association v. Sargent, 142 U. S*. 691, 694-695.
The substance of the contention is that intentional failure of a prohibition director or other enforcement officer,
having knowledge of crimes and offenders against the
.Act, to report them to the United States Attorney is not
a punishable offense.
Section 2, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act (c.
85, 41 Stat. 305, 308; U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 11), provides:
"The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, his assistants,
agents, and inspectors shall investigate and report violations of this Act to the United States Attorney for the
district in which committed, . . . " The Act does not
specifically fix punishment for a violation of that provision. But § 29 provides that: "Any person
who . . . violates any of the provisions . . .
for which offense a special penalty is not prescribed, shall
be fined for a first offense not more than $500
"
As there are no common law crimes against the Government (United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677), each
case involves the construction of a statute to determine
whether the acts or omissions of the accused are denounced as punishable. And regard is always to be had
to the familiar rule that one may not be punished for
crime against the United States unless the facts shown
plainly and unmistakably constitute an offense within
the meaning of an Act of Congress. United States v.
Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628. Todd v. United States, 158
U. S. 278, 282. Fasulo v. United States, 272 U.S. 620,629.

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The evidence showed, and the verdict, when read in the
light of the court's charge, means that the jury found that
Curran was discovered transporting ten barrels of intoxicating liquor and that plaintiff in error, with actual
knowledge of that violation, intentionally failed to report
the crime and offender for prosecution. Plainly that was
a violation of duty imposed on him by § 2. And § 29
declares that violators of any provision shall be punished.
Taken according to their ordinary meaning, the words
used are sufficient to make the facts alleged and found a
punishable offense. The rule that penal statutes are to
be strictly construed in favor of persons accused is not
violated by allowing the language to have its full meaning where that construction is in harmony with the context and supports the policy and purposes of the enactment. United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 395.
United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95. Section 3
forbids a narrow or strict construction of the Act, and
directs that all its provisions "shall be liberally construed
to the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage
may be prevented."
Diligence and good faith on the part of enforcement
officers are essential. The great difficulties always attendant upon efforts to suppress the liquor: traffic have
been noticed and cited in a number of decisions of this
Court. Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307. Jacob
Ruppert v. Cafley, 251 U. S. 264, 282, 297. Everard's
Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, 560. Lambert v. Yellowley, 272 U. S. 581, 595. The failure to enforce laws of
the States passed to regulate or prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor was one of the principal reasons for the
adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment. Violations of
such enactments were open and notorious. Connivance
and cooperation between officers and offenders frequently
existed. Those who drafted and passed the enforcement
Act knew that national prohibition would be assailed by

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
505

Opinion of the Court.

influences more powerful than those that had embarrassed earlier and less sweeping state laws. Experience
had shown that it would not do to leave prohibition enforcement officers free to determine what cases should
be prosecuted and what ignored, and that mere imposition of duty to report offenders would not be enough.
The infliction of punishment for their intentional violations is an appropriate measure to hold them to the
performance of their duties.
The Act is comprehensive and discloses a legislative
purpose fully to enforce the prohibition declared by the
Eighteenth Amendment. National Prohibition Cases,
253 U. S. 350. Corneliv. Moore, 257 U. S. 491. Vigliotti
v. Pennsylvania, 258 U. S. 403. Grogan v. Walker &
Sons, 259 U. S. 80. Everard's Breweries v. Day, supra.
Lambert v. Yellowley, supra. The forfeitures, fines and
imprisonments unquestionably provided for show an intention to compel obedience. Congress was not content to
impose duties and merely direct their performance; it
diligently provided means for enforcement. An abridged
reference to the things denounced as unlawful or expressly forbidden and those by the Act commanded to
be done will be sufficient to indicate how thoroughly Congress intended to enforce this Article. The Act prohibits
beverages having as much as one-half of one per cent. of
alcohol by volume (§ 1). It declares that no person shall
manufacture, sell, barter, transport, import, export, deliver, furnish or possess such liquor except as authorized
by the Act. (§ 3.) Denatured alcohol, medicinal, toilet and other preparations unfit for beverage purposes
are not forbidden, if they correspond with the descriptions
and limitations specified. Purchase and possession of
liquor to make such articles are allowed, but manufacturers are required to procure permits, give bonds, keep
records and make reports. (§ 4.) No person is allowed
without a permit to manufacture, sell, purchase, transport
318"-28-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

or prescribe liquor, but one may purchase and use it for
medicinal purposes when prescribed by a physician.
(§ 6.) No one but a physician holding a permit may
issue a prescription for liquor. And no physician is
allowed to prescribe it unless, upon an examination or
the best information obtainable, he believes its use as a
medicine is necessary and will afford relief from some
known ailment. No more than a pint of spiritous liquor
shall be prescribed for the same person within ten days,
and no prescription shall be filled more than once. Every
physician is required to keep a record showing the date
of every prescription, the amount prescribed, to whom
issued, the purpose or ailment for which it is to be used,
the amount and frequency of the dose. No physician
may prescribe liquor and no pharmacist may fill any
such prescription except on blanks furnished by the commissioner, and pharmacists are required to keep records
of prescriptions filled. (§§ 7 and 8.) No person is
allowed to manufacture, purchase for sale, sell or transport liquor without making a permanent record showing
prescribed details. (§ 10.) Copies of permits to purchase must be preserved by the seller. (§ 11.) Manufacturers are required to attach labels showing details
concerning liquor made and sold by them. (§ 12.) It
is unlawful for any person to procure the transportation
of liquor without giving the carrier notice of the character of the shipment. No carrier is permitted to transport and no person may receive liquor from a carrier unless there is shown upon the package, specified information as to consignor and consignee, and also the number
of the permit allowing the transportation. (§ 14.) It
is unlawful for any consignee to receive or any carrier
to deliver any liquor in a container on which appears
any statement known to be false. (§ 15.) It is unlawful
to advertise liquor or to permit a sign advertising it to
remain on one's premises (§ 17), or to advertise or to

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
505

515

Opinion of the Court.

possess for sale any utensil, substance or recipe intended
for use in its unlawful manufacture (§ 18), or to give
any information as to how liquor may be obtained in violation of law. (§ 19.) Every place where liquor is made,
kept or sold in violation of the law is declared to be a
nuisance, and the person who maintains it is liable to
specified punishment. (§ 21.) It is declared that any
violation on leased premises by the lessee or occupant
shall work a forfeiture of the lease at the option of the
lessor. (§ 23.) When an officer shall discover one transporting liquor in any vehicle in violation of law it is his
duty to seize the liquors, take possession of the vehicle,
arrest and proceed against the person in charge of it.
(§ 26.)
A conservative analysis of the provisions of the Title is
contained in one of the briefs filed by the Government.
It shows eight provisions declaring specified things to be
unlawful, eighteen prohibiting others and fifteen commanding the performance of various obligations imposed.
Except for nuisance (§§ 21-23. Cf. §§ 24, 25), all punishments to be imposed on offenders are prescribed by § 29.
Its substance follows. "Any person who manufactures or
sells liquor in violation of this title shall for a first offense
be fined

.

.

or imprisoned

.

.

. "

Second and

subsequent offenses are more severely to be punished.
"Any person violating the provisions of any permit, or
who makes any false record, report, or affidavit required
by this title, or violates any of the provisions of this title,
-for which offense a special penalty is not prescribed,'shall
be fined for the first offense not more than $500 "; and
heavier penalties are prescribed for second and subsequent
offenses. Obviously Congress intended to provide for the
punishment of the things declared to be unlawful and
those specifically prohibited. And it is plain that there
was no failure to provide measures for the enforcement
of its commands. Undoubtedly the general clause of this

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

• 276 U. S.

section covers unauthorized transportation, importation,
exportation, delivery, possession and the advertising or
possession for sale of anything intended for use in its unlawful manufacture. The clause is broad enough-and
it is the only one-to make punishable violations of the
provisions governing manufacturers, pharmacists, shippers and carriers. Undoubtedly Congress intended to
penalize their violation of the duties imposed on them.
And, unless it is to be restricted by implication in favor
of enforcement officers, the general language used also
covers violations of the provisions enacted to govern their
official conduct.
But there is no support for a construction so restrained.
It always has been deemed necessary to enact laws to
compel performance of duty and to prevent corruption
on the part of public officers. They are not attended by
any special presumption that general language in disciplinary measures does not extend to them. Neglect of
official duty is a misdemeanor at common law. Russell
Crimes and Misdemeanors (7th Ed.), p. 601. People v
Herlihy, 72 N. Y. S. 389, and cases cited. Intentional
failure of enforcement officers to report violations is doubly injurious to the public. It encourages offenders and
disgraces the ls~w. Performance of duty by prohibition
agents is quite as important as compliance with law by
authorized manufacturers, physicians, pharmacists and
carriers. The general clause in question applies to the
latter. With equal reason it may be held to cover failures
of enforcement officers to report for prosecution violations
and offenders known to them. And that construction is
consistent with the established policy of Congress. Similar neglect of duty has long been punishable. The Act
of July 18, 1866,1 imposes penalties upon collectors of
customs and other officers for failure to make required
§ 42, c. 201, 14 Stat. 178, 188; R. S. § 1780; as amended by Act
of March 4, 1909, § 101, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1107; U. S. C., Tit.
18, § 188.

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
505

Opinion of the Court.

reports. An Act of July 20, 1868,2 provides that any
revenue officer or agent who, having knowledge or information of the violation of the revenue laws, fails to
report the same to his superior officer and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall be punished by fine and
imprisonment. The duties of prohibition officers and
revenue officers overlap. They are in the same department aid directed by the same head. They are under
like duty to report. Cf. R. S. § 3164, as amended; U. S.
C., Tit. 26, § 26. Treasury regulations require that the
reports of prohibition agents shall include statements of
infringements of internal revenue laws also involved.
Regulations 12, Art. 35. They are entitled to like protection against prosecution in state courts for acts done
under color of their office. Maryland v. Soper (No. 1),
270 U. S. 9. And the policy of Congress is further shown
by the Prohibition Act for the District of Columbia,
which makes it an offense for any officer to fail to report
violations to the corporation counsel.' These and other
Acts " prescribing punishment for neglect of official duty
strongly support the contention that Congress intended
to make prohibition officers punishable for failure to
make the reports required by § 2.
Defendant argues that, if the failure of enforcement officers to report violations be held punishable "they cannot . . . determine what classes or character of
violators it is most advantageous, for the purpose of real
enforcement, to investigate and report." But there is
2

§ 98, c. 186, 15 Stat. 125, 165; R. S. § 3169; U. S. C., Tit. 26,

§ 64.

And see Act of February 8, 1875, § 23, c. 36, 18 Stat. 307, 312;

U. S. C., Tit. 26, § 68.
Act of March 3, 1917, § 21, c. 165, 39 Stat. 1123, 1129.
of duty by employee in the census. § 22, c. 2, 36 Stat.
1, 8, reenacted as § 22, c. 97, 40 Stat. 1291, 1299; U. S. C., Tit. 13,
§ 44. Neglect of duty imposed by Alaska Game Commission Act,
§ 15, c. 75, 43 Stat. 739, 747; U. S. C., Tit. 48, § 202. Failure of
guide to report violation of Alaska Game Law, § 5, c. 162, 35 Stat.
102, 104; U. S. C., Tit. 48, § 202.
8

4Neglect

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

nothing to indicate that any such determinations are to
be made. Congress intended that prohibition officers
should not intentionally fail to report violations and
that the law should be enforced against all offenders.
The general clause covers all violations except the relatively few specifically dealt with. And it reasonably may
be held to apply to violations of official duties and to safeguard against connivance between officers and offenders.
He also argues that the imposition of heavier penalties
for second and subsequent offenses shows that the clause
was not intended to apply to offending officers because,
as it was said, they would not be in office after conviction.
But that suggestion has little if any weight when it is
remembered that the clause is aimed at so many violations and non-office-holding offenders. There is no rule
requiring every part of the provision to apply to all
classes covered by it. Cf. United States v. Union Supply
Company, 215 U. S. 50, 55. Moreover, it is not impossible that an enforcement officer may be in office subsequent to a conviction for such an offense.
The construction contended for by defendant unduly
restrains the language of the clause in question, is inconsistent with the context and contrary to the purposes of
the Act and the policy of Congress. It is without substantial support and cannot be sustained. Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent.
BLACK AND WHITE TAXICAB AND TRANSFER
COMPANY v. BROWN AND YELLOW TAXICAB
AND TRANSFER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 174. Argued January 13, 16, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
A Kentucky railroad corporation made a contract with the plaintiff,
a Tennessee corporation carrying on a transfer business at a city

