DENNEY v. PACIFIC TEL. CO.
Syllabus.

71

ened evil. International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234
U. S. 199; Jones v. Union Guano Co., 264 U. S. 171.
Viewing all the circumstances, it is impossible for us to say
that the legislature of Kentucky could not treat marketing
contracts between the Association and its members as
of a separate class, provide against probable interference
therewith, and to that extent limit the sometime action of
warehousemen.
The liberty of contract guaranteed by the Constitution
is freedom from arbitrary restraint-not immunity from
reasonable regulation to safeguard the public interest.
The question is whether the restrictions of the statute
have reasonable relation to a proper purpose. Miller v.
Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 380; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78. A provision for a penalty to
be received by the aggrieved party as punishment for the
violation of a statute does not invalidate it. St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Williams, et al.,
251 U. S. 63, 66.
Affirmed.
DENNEY, AS DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS OF
WASHINGTON, ET AL., V. PACIFIC TELEPHONE
& TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
SAME v. HOME TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos. 150 and 151.

Argued January 9, 1928.-Decided February 20,
1928.

1. In a suit by a public service corporation to enjoin enforcement of
rates fixed by a state commission, the federal courts will ascertain
the powers 'and duties of the commission and the effect of its orders
upon a consideration of the local constitution and statutes and the
construction placed upon them by the state courts. P. 101.
318-28-----7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

2. Under the Public Service Commission Law of Washington, an order of the state Department of Public Works approving, and ordering future observance of, telephone rates that are higher than the
maxima fixed in franchises granted the company by local municipalities, has the effect of terminating those franchise provisions and
not that of introducing such approved rates as new maxima into
the franchise contracts. P. 101.
3. Therefore, the rates so approved, when found to be confiscatory,
can not be enforced as contractual. P. 102.
12 F. (2d) 279, affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees of the District Court permanently
enjoining, as confiscatory, the enforcement of telephone
rates which had been adjudged sufficient and ordered enforced by the Department of Public Works of the State
of Washington.

Messrs. John H. Dunbar and Arthur Schramm, with
whom Messrs. H. C. Brodie, Thomas J. L. Kennedy, J. M.
Geraghty and Alex M. Winson were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Otto B. Rupp, with whom Messrs. H. D. Pillsbury,
Frank T. Post and C. M. Bracelen were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
It will be convenient to dispose of these causes by one
opinion as was done in the court below. Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Whitcomb, et al., 12 F. (2d) 279.
Appellees operate telephone plants in Seattle, Tacoma
and Spokane, Washington, under local franchises which
designated maximum permissible rates. These were
granted prior to 1911, but after adoption of the present
Constitution of the State.
The "Public Service Commission Law" of Washington,
Ch. 117, Laws 1911 (Remington's Comp. Stat. 1922, Sees.

DENNEY v. PACIFIC TEL. CO.
97

Opinion of the Court.

10349-10441), authorized a public service commission and

directed that telephone rates, tolls, contracts ahd charges
"shall be fair, just, reasonable and sufficient," etc. It
further provided"Sec. 43. (Remington's Comp. Stat. 1922, Sec. 10379)Nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent any
telegraph company or telephone company from continuing
to furnish the use of its line, equipment or service under
any contract or contracts in force at the date this act
takes effect or upon the taking effect of any schedule or
schedules of rates subsequently filed with the commission,
as herein provided, at the rates fixed in such contract or
contracts: Provided, however, That the commission shall
have power, in its discretion, to direct by order that such
contract or contracts shall be terminated by the telephone
company or telegraph company party thereto, and thereupon such contract or contracts shall be terminated by
such telephone company or telegraph company as and
when directed by such order."
"Sec. 55. (Remington's Comp. Stat. 1922, Sec. 10391)Whenever the commission shall find, after a hearing had
upon its own motion or upon complaint, that the rates,
charges, tolls or rentals demanded, exacted, charged or
collected by any telegraph company or telephone company

. . .

are unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discrimi-

natory or unduly preferential, or in any wise in violation
of law, or that such rates, charges, tolls or rentals are
insufficient to yield reasonable compensation for the service rendered, the commission shall determine the just and
reasonable rates, charges, tolls or rentals to be thereafter
observed and in force, and fix the same by order as hereinafter provided. ..

."

Chapter 1, Laws of 1921, vested in the Department
of Public Works powers theretofore entrusted to the
Commission.

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Control of the telephone systems owned by appellees
was assumed by the Postmaster General, August 1, 1918,
and retained for one year. He fixed rates for Seattle,
Tacoma and Spokane higher than the maximum rates
permitted by the original franchises.
The Act of July 11, 1919 (41 Stat. Ch. 10, p. 157)
repealed the Act of July 16, 1918-which authorized Federal control of telephone systems-and directed that rates
established by the Postmaster General should continue for
four months after the termination of Federal control (July
31, 1919) unless sooner modified or changed by public
authorities.'
August 8, 1919, the Public Service Commission directed
appellees to observe the rates established by the Postmaster General; and they continued so to do. January,
1922, the Department of Public Works by formal complaint challenged the reasonableness of these rates. In
the Autumn of 1922 appellees filed schedules of proposed
increased rates which were suspended. Extended hearings were had concerning the value of properties devoted
to the service and the reasonableness of the rates proposed. The Department found and declared the value of
the properties; also "that the existing rates are just, fair,
reasonable and sufficient; that the proposed increased
rates both toll and exchange, are unjust, unfair, unreasonable, and more than sufficient." And on March 31, 1923,
it ordered "that the applications of respondents for increased rates be and the same are hereby denied. That
the proposed increased rates in their entirety be and they
are hereby permanently suspended; that the same shall
not become effective, and existing rates shall remain in
effect until the further order of the Department."
Shortly thereafter appellees began these proceedings in
the United States District Court. They attacked the
valuations by. the Department and alleged that the rates
designated by the order of March 31, 1923, were confisca-

DENNEY v. PACIFIC TEL. CO.
97

Opinion of the Court.

tory. The matter went to a master and was heard upon
his report, etc. The court approved the master's conclusions that the Department's valuations were too low and
the prescribed rates were confiscatory. It accordingly
adjudged the challenged order void and without effect.
The causes are here by direct appeal. The valuations
approved by the court are not questioned; nor is it now
claimed that the rates prescribed by the departmental
order would yield adequate returns. But it is said that
these rates must be regarded as contractual franchise
rates and therefore they cannot be confiscatory in a constitutional sense.
Appellants maintain that under the statutes of Washington when the Department terminates a franchise rate
and prescribes another the result is "simply to terminate
one rate and substitute therefor a new rate, and that,
after such substitution has been made, there still continues
a franchise contract between the company and the city,
which cannot be again changed except by the discretion
of the department, and that the refusal of the department
to exercise that discretion raises no question of confiscation." Here, it is asserted, the department merely refused to change existing approved rates which were higher
than the maxima originally specified in the granted
franchises.
The powers and duties of the Department of Public
Works and the effect of its orders must be ascertained
upon a consideration of the local constitution and statutes, and the construction placed upon them by the State
courts. Georgia Ry. Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432, 437.
Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton,255 U. S. 539.
The Public Service Law authorizes investigation of
existing rates and expressly directs that whenever after a
hearing they are found to be unjust or insufficient to yield
reasonable compensation the Department shall determine
what will be just and reasonable ones thereafter to be

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

observed and fix the same by order. The order of March
31, 1923, in effect declared the rates then being observed
just and sufficient to yield reasonable compensation. It
expressly commanded their future observance and was
sufficient to terminate the provisions of the franchises as
to maximum rates, within the purview of Section 55,
supra.
The Department made its investigation and order without regard to the franchise rates and treated the questions
presented as unaffected thereby. It exercised the power
and duty to fix reasonable and compensatory rates irrespective of any previous municipal action. We must
treat the result as a bona fide effort to comply with the
local statute. There is no adequate basis for the claim
upon which appellants rely. See Puget Sound Traction
Co. v. Reynolds, 244 U. S.574, 578.
Much consideration was given to the Public Service
Law by the Supreme Court in State ex rel. Spokane v.
Kuykendall, 119 Wash. 107, 111 (1920). There a gas
company operating in Spokane under a franchise which
prescribed maximum rates asked for increased rates. The
Commission disapproved the proposed schedule but permitted the company to charge rates deolared to be just,
reasonable and sufficient. These exceeded the ones theretfore charged and were above the maximum permitted
by franchise. The Court said:
"... By the act of 1911 (Laws of 1911, p. 561,
ยง 34) the terms of a franchise contract like the one in
question here are binding upon the parties until the department of public works (heretofore the public service
commission) has made an order directing a departure
therefrom; and, without question, the department has the
right and power to order a departure. State ex rel. Ellertsen v. Home Tel. & Tel. Co., 102 Wash. 196, 172 Pac. 899.
In the case of State ex rel. Webster v. Superior Court, 67
Wash. 37, it was decided that the public service com-

DENNEY v. PACIFIC TEL. CO.
97

Opinion of the Court.

mission law placed the entire subject of rate regulation
under the control of the commission, that no contract
between a city representing the public and a public service
company would be allowed to interfere with that control,
and by way of application of the rule, it was decided in
that case to be the duty of the commission to the company to fix a rate which was sufficient (a rate that would
afford a fair interest return on the investment), in spite of
the franchise contract fixing rates which were too low.
That, in legal effect, is what has been done in the present
case."
Responding to an argument in behalf of the City, based
upon the proviso of Section 43, supra, the Court further
said:
"Therefrom it appears to be argued that the rates provided in the contract should continue until the commission makes an order specifically declaring and directing in
so many words that the contract shall be terminated. We
may overlook the fact, if need be, that, upon the petition
of the city, the rates were reduced in 1913, and that in
1918 they were increased upon the application of the gas
company, and consider the franchise contract as having
been wholly undisturbed until the present time, and still
we would be compelled to determine, as we do determine,
that the present order of the department of public works
is just as effective as if, after fixing the rates, there had
been added therein the words 'and it is hereby directed
that the rates provided in the franchise shall be and they
are hereby terminated,' or words of similar import. That
is the legal effect of what was done, and the form or language by which it was accomplished is not very material."
In the same cause the Gas Company maintained that
the rates prescribed by the Commission's order were inadequate for its needs and unjust. This matter was carefully considered upon the merits, but the opinion nowhere
suggests that the rates prescribed should be treated as if

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

specified in the franchise and obligatory upon the Company whether compensatory or no.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration of
this case.
BRIMSTONE RAILROAD AND CANAL COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL

FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA

No. 240.

Argued October 10, 11, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission reduced the
divisions of joint rates accorded a short line railroad by an agreement with its connections, and thus increased theirs correspondingly, upon a finding that the share of the short line exceeded a
fair return on its property over cost of service and was tantamount
to a rebate to a mining company which owned its stock and contributed most of its traffic. The finding was based on a study of
the short line's property and affairs; the service it performed;
divisions established by the United States Railroad Administration;
other divisions, past and present; volume and distribution of traffic; comparison between the questioned divisions and those received
by other lines in the same territory; and testimony that competition controlled the agreed divisions; but there was no evidence that
the connecting carriers were in need, or received, or would receive,
more than or less than a fair return from the agreed divisions; that
the joint rates themselves were unfair or unjust, or that the agreed
divisions were "unjust, unreasonable, inequitable or unduly preferential or prejudicial as between the carriers." The order was made
retroactive to the date when the investigation was instituted by the
Commission. Held:
(1) That as items definitely specified by ยง 15 (6) of the amended
Act to Regulate Commerce were not considered, the order must be
annulled. New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; United
States v. Abilene & Southern Railway, 265 U. S. 274, distinguished.
P. 115.
(2) Section 15 (6) grants no power to require readjustment between carriers of past receipts from agreed joint rates. P. 117.

