LEVY v. INDUSTRIAL CORP.
272

Syllabus.

other words, part of the property owners fronting on the
block determine the extent of use that other owners shall
make of their lots, and against the restriction they are
impotent."
The function of the property owners there is in no way
comparable to that of the "ten or more reputable freeholders" in the Cedar Rust Act. They do not determine
the action of the state entomologist. They merely request him to conduct an investigation. In him is vested
the discretion to decide, after investigation, whether or
not conditions are such that the other provisions of the
statute shall be brought into action; and his determination is subject to judicial review. The property of plaintiffs in error is not subjected to the possibly arbitrary and
irresponsible action of a group of private citizens.
The objection of plaintiffs in error to the vagueness of
the statute is without weight. The state court has held
it to be applicable and that is enough when, by the
statute, no penalty can be incurred or disadvantage suffered in advance of the judicialascertainment of its applicability. Compare Connally v. General ConstructionCo.,
269 U. S. 385.
Affirmed.

LEVY v. INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION,
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT

No. 217.

Argued February 24, 1928.-Decided March 5, 1928.

Section 14b (3) of the Bankruptcy Act which withholds a discharge
from a bankrupt who obtained money or property on credit upon
a materially false statement in writing, made by him to any person
or his representative for the purpose of obtaining credit from such
person, applies where the bankrupt through his false statement
obtained a loan for a corporation controlled by him and in which
he was largely interested as a stockholder and creditor. P. 283.

16 F. (2d) 769, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.

282

Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 731, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a denial of a discharge in
bankruptcy.

Mr. S. M. Brandt for petitioner.
Messrs. R. Randolph Hicks, James J. Irwin, Jr., and
Evelyn P. Luquer were on the brief for respondents.
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the oinion of the

Levy, a bankrupt, was denied a discharge by the District Court, and the denial was affirmed on appeal by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 16 F. (2d) 769. In view of a
conflict between this decision and In re Applebaum, 11 F.
(2d) 685, a writ of certiorari was granted by this Court,
274 U. S. 731. The conflict concerns the construction of
ยง 14b(3) of the Bankruptcy Act. (July 1, 1898, c. 541,
30 Stat. 550; June 25, 1910, c. 412, ยง 6, 36 Stat. 838,
839.) By that section "the judge shall . . . discharge
the applicant unless he has . . . (3) obtained money or
property on credit upon a materially false statement in
writing, made by him to any person or his representative
for the purpose of obtaining credit from such person."
The facts that raise the question are found to be as follows. The bankrupt was president of The American
Home Furnishers Corporation, had the general management and control of it, had made large advances to it,
and with his sister-in-law owned more than two-thirds of
the stock; he obtained a loan of $1,500,000 to the corporation from the objectors and, in order to obtain it, made
to them a statement in writing, known by him to be false,
which very materially overstated the assets of the corporation. There is no doubt of his pecuniary interest in
the result of the fraud found to have been practiced by

LEVY v. INDUSTRIAL CORP.
281

Opinion of the Court.

him, but it is said that he did not obtain money by this
fraud, inasmuch as the money went to the corporation
and not to him.
A man obtains his end equally when that end is to
induce another to lend to his friend and when it is to bring
about a loan to himself. It seems to us that it would be
a natural use of ordinary English to say that he obtained
the money for his friend. So, when the statute speaks
simply of obtaining money, the question for whom the
money must be obtained depends upon the context and
the policy of the act. It would seem that so far as policy
.goes there is no more reason for granting a discharge to
a man who has fraudulently obtained a loan to a corporation which is owned by him and in which his interests
are bound up, than for granting one to a man who has
got money directly for himself. In re Dresser & Co.,
144 Fed. Rep. 318. It is true that the narrower construction is somewhat helped by the words "for the purpose of obtaining credit from such person," which naturally would be taken to mean for the purpose of obtaining
credit for himself and so would fortify the interpretation
that only immediate benefit was contemplated. But we
cannot think it possible that the statute should be taken
to allow an escape from its words, fairly read, by the
simple device of interposing an artificial personality between the bankrupt and the lender. We go no farther
than the facts before us, and without intimating that our
decision would be different, we express no opinion as to
how it would be if the bankrupt had no substantial
pecuniary interest in the borrower's obtaining the loan.
The later amendment, by the Act of May 27, 1926, c. 406,
ยง 6, 44 Stat. 662, 663, serves to limit the bars to a discharge more narrowly and by indirection to favor the
defendant's position by a change of the words to "a ma,terially false statement . . . respecting his financial con-

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

dition." But that statute did not govern this case and
cannot be invoked for the construction of the earlier
law. As to the suggestion In re Applebaum that the language before us may have been drawn from the original
statute of false pretenses (referring we presume to 30
Geo. II, c. 24,) and that the words should be taken with
the construction first given to them, it is enough to reply
with the Court below that it is equally likely that they
were taken from a more modern source, and were used
with knowledge of the broader interpretation of later
days.
Decree affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

McMASTER ET AL. v. GOULD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK
No. 85.

Argued October 28, 1927.-Decided March 5, 1928.

By the law of New York (Civ. Pr. Act. ยง 588), appeals from judgments of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, which finally
determine actions or special proceedings, may be taken to the
Court of Appeals as of right in certain cases, and, in others, may
be allowed upon application, by the Appellate Division, or, in case
of refusal, by the Court of Appeals; but if an appeal which is not
of right be taken without such leave, it must be dismissed. Petitioners, having been refused leave by the Appellate Division, sued
out an appeal which was dismissed by the Court of Appeals without
opinion.
Held, that the dismissal must be taken as a holding that the case
was not appealable of right; and that, since the petitioners had
omitted to apply for leave to the Court of Appeals, the judgment
of the Appellate Division was not that of the highest court of the
State in which a decision could be had, and the writ of certiorari
must therefore be dismissed. P. 286.
Dismissed.

