LARKIN v. PAUGH.
429

Syllabus

witnesses for the petitioner with greater plausibility make
it appreciably more. If there is to be a standard in these
cases, and if, as decided, the general rule is that the engineer takes the risk, the railroad should not be made liable
for this class of injury except where some unquestionable
disregard of obvious precautions is shown. The plaintiff
here, as in Berkshire's case, well knew of the existence of
the crane, which had been in place for three or four years.
He was an experienced engineer and, although here as
there presumably he never had measured the distance, he
like Berkshire knew the fact that threatened danger. At
the trial Leitch testified that he was looking to see the
position of a block signal, pointedly contradicting a statement that he dictated and signed near the time of the
accident. He admitted, however, that it was the fireman's business to look out for the block and notify him,
and the fireman's more favorable position for seeing and
other circumstances sufficiently indicate that there was no
great or sudden emergency, if that would affect the case.
Without discussing the evidence in detail we are satisfied
upon a consideration of it that it does not show grounds
for making an exception to the general rule.
Judgment reversed.

LARKIN v. PAUGH ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA

No. 137. Argued December 9, 1927.--Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Rev. Stats., § 2448, providing that where a patent for "public
lands" shall issue in pursuance of any law of the United States,
to a person who has died before the date of the patent, the title
shall inure to, and become vested in, the "heirs, devisees, or
assignees" of the deceased patentee as if the patent had issued to
him during life, held applicable where an Indian holding land by
"trust patent" under the General Allotment Act, applied to the
Secretary of the Interior, under the Act of March 1, 1907, for a

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

fee simple patent, and the patent was issued some days after the
Indian's death. P. 437.
2. Whether the term "public lands" applies to allotments held in
trust for Indians, depends upon the nature and object of the
particular statute in which the term is employed. P. 438.
3. Rev. Stats., § 2448, is highly remedial, and patents to Indians are
not less within its reason than patents to white men. P. 438.
4. By reason of this statute, the fee simple patent operated to invest
the Indian's heirs, devisees or assignees with the title and to divest
the United States of it, as if the patent had issued to him during
life; and the recipients of the title took it as though from him
directly and not as immediate grantees of the United States. P. 438.
5. Issuance of the patent terminated the prior trust and the incidental restriction on alienation, and also the authority possessed
by the Secretary of the Interior by reason of them, so that all
questions pertaining to the title became subject to examination
and determination by the courts,-appropriately those in the State
where the land was situate. P. 439.
6. Therefore, the proper state court had jurisdiction to determine
that a contract to sell the land, made by the Indian in anticipation
of the patent, was valid and that, by reason of its partial performance while the Indian was living, his vendee became an
assignee and the contract legally and equitably enforcible as
against the heirs. The heirs have no federal right to have the
judgment re-examined and vacated on a collateral attack. P. 439.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 507, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska, which reversed a decree canceling a deed made by the administrator of the estate of
a deceased Indian.

Mr. Jay A. Larkin, pro se.

Mr. Karl J. Knoepfler, with whom Messrs. Edwin J.
Stason and E. S. Ripley were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case presents a controversy over the title to land
which in 1901 was allotted to Lewis Greyhair, a Winne-

LARKIN v. PAUGH.
431

Opinion of the Court.

bago Indian, and for which in 1902 he received a trust
patent. The suit was brought in the district court of
Thurston County, Nebraska, where the land lies. The
plaintiff claimed under a deed from the allottee's heirs,
and the defendants under a deed from his administrator.
In the district court the plaintiff prevailed, but in the
Supreme Court of the State the decision was for the defendants. The case was brought here on writ of error;
but we dismissed that writ and granted a writ of certiorari,
because the only federal questions involved relate to the
construction and operation of certain congressional statutes, rather than to their'validity, Judicial Code, § 237, as
amended February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936.
The land was allotted to Greyhair under the act of February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24 Stat. 388, which provided in § 5
that the trust patent should declare, as in fact it did, that
the United States would hold the land for the period of
25 years in trust for the sole use and benefit of the allottee,
or, in case of his decease, of his heirs according to the laws
of the State, and at the expiration of that period would
convey the same by patent to the allottee, or his heirs, in
fee, discharged of such trust and free from all charge or
incumbrance. The act further provided in the same seetion that any conveyance of the land, or contract touching
the same, made before the termination of the trust period
should be absolutely null and void.
These provisions were qualified by a later one in the act
of March 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182, authorizing the
Secretary of the Interior, "whenever he shall be satisfied
that any Indian allotee is competent and capable of managing his or her affairs," to terminate the trust period and
the incidental restriction against alienation by issuing to
such allottee a patent in fee simple; and they were further qualified by a provision in the act of March 1, 1907,
c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1018, permitting an allottee to sell all or
318-28----28

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

any part of his allotment during the existence of the
restriction against alienation, if the Secretary of the
Interior approved.
March 12, 1916, Greyhair made written application for
the issue to him of a fee simple patent under the provision
in the Act of 1906, and as reasons therefor he set forth
with some corroborative detail that in point of education,
experience and habits he was well able to manage his own
affairs; that he was in poor health and in need of money;
that the land was worth $3,600 and was the only property
owned by him which readily could be sold; and that he
was not residing on it but on other property belonging to
him. The superintendent of the Winnebago Agency approved the application and forwarded it to the Indian
Office in Washington with a statement giving the value
of the land as $3,200, confirming what Greyhair said of
himself and adding: "Greyhair is a very sick man in need
of hospital care and special medical attention that we are
not able to give him. He needs money and needs it at
once. The quickest way. we know to get it is to ask the
Office to grant a patent in fee on his allotment."
A month later Greyhair, being without response to his
application, sent a telegram to the Indian Office saying:
"Am sick. Need hospital attention. Am without means
until I get patent to allotment. Superintendent informs
me that he has asked for quick approval of application
that I may get treatment. Please hasten and answer by
wire." The Assistant Commissioner then wrote to the
superintendent stating that the Indian Office had submitted the application to the Secretary of the Interior
with favorable recommendation; that when it was returned by the Secretary the Indian Office would give it
immediate attention; and that-" Meanwhile you may
make such arrangements as your acquaintance with all
the facts in the case justify looking to sale of the allotment

LARKIN v. PAUGH.
431

Opinion of the Court.

and the assistance of Greyhair to such extent as his
necessities may require."
The superintendent received that letter April 29 and
immediately informed Greyhair of its contents. Later
in the same day Greyhair and his wife, with the approval
of the superintendent, entered into a written contract
with one Osborn to sell the land to him for $3,520 and to
give a deed promptly after the issue of a fee simple patent.
Of the agreed purchase price $2,120 was paid when the
contract was signed and $1,400 was to be paid when the
deed was given. The contract recited that it was made
in conformity with the instructions given to the superintendent in the letter of the Assistant Commissioner; and
the superintendent endorsed his approval on the contract.
Greyhair died intestate the next day, April 30, leaving
as his only heirs his widow and three minor children. A
few days later the Secretary of the Interior found from
the application and accompanying papers that Greyhair
was competent and capable of managing his affairs, and
accordingly directed that he be given a fee simple patent
as prayed in the application. The patent was issued May
19, 1916.
August 3, 1916, the county court appointed an administrator of Greyhair's estate; and later in that month
the administrator brought a suit in equity in a local court
of general jurisdiction against the heirs and Osborn, conformably to a local statute,1 to accomplish specific performance of the contract. Among other things the petition in that suit set forth the contract, disclosed that
Greyhair had died the day after making it and showed
that a fee simple patent to him was issued after his death.
The heirs and Osborn were all brought in by both personal
1 Com. St. Neb. 1922, c. 15, art. IX; Solt v. Anderson, 62 Neb. 153,

157; Solt v. Anderson, 67 Neb. 103, 107.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S,

service and public notice. The widow and Osborn answered and consented that the prayer of the petition be
granted. The children answered through a guardian ad
litem and called for full proof. A hearing resulted in
the entry of a decree authorizing and directing the administrator, on receiving from Osborn the unpaid balance
of the purchase price, to execute and deliver to him a deed
in fulfillment of the contract. An appeal to the Supreme
Court was admissible under the local law, but none was
taken. The balance of the purchase price was duly paid,
and on April 9, 1917, the administrator executed and delivered the deed to Osborn. The latter then entered into
possession and he and his grantees have been in possession
ever since.
May 31, 1922, the heirs of Greyhair-the minors then
having attained their majority-made a deed purporting
to convey the land to the plaintiff, an attorney at law,
who knew of the administrator's deed and of the defendants' claim under it. The deed to the plaintiff recited
a consideration of $1,000 "in hand paid "; but the real
consideration was $80 paid in cash and a conditional prom,ise to pay $920 more-if and when the plaintiff was adjudged by the "court of final jurisdiction " to have the
title.
After receiving the deed from the heirs the plaintiff
brought the present suit to cancel the administrator's deed
and some later conveyances passing all title under it to the
defendants. The plaintiff took the position that Greyhair's contract to sell was void because made without the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior and in violation
of the restriction against alienation imposed by the act of
1887; that under that act and other congressional statutes
the title was held in trust by the United States up to the
time of Greyhair's death and then passed to his heirs unaffected by any act of his; and that his administrator had

LARKIN v. PAUGH.
431

Opinion of the Court.

no authority over the land and the local court was without
jurisdiction to render the decree for the performance of
the contract to sell. The trial court sustained that position and accordingly entered a decree of cancellation.
The Supreme Court was of opinion that the fee simple
patent, although actually issued after Greyhair's death,
should be regarded as if issued during his life, and that, so
regarding it, "there could be no question " that the local
court "had jurisdiction" to render the decree for the
performance of the contract or that the administrator's
deed given under the decree "passed a valid title." On
these grounds the decree of cancellation was reversed.
It was plainly implied in this decision that the administrator's suit to accomplish performance of the contract
was sanctioned by the local statute, and also that, there
being full jurisdiction the decree therein was not open to
collateral attack and was conclusive on the parties and
their privies, including the plaintiff in the present suit
2
who claims under a subsequent deed from the heirs.
The court's conclusion that the patent should be regarded as if issued during the life of Greyhair was rested
on the equitable doctrine of relation. We think there is
no need to consider that doctrine; for the operation of
the patent is controlled by an early congressional statute,"
still in force, which provides:
"Where patents for public lands have been or may be
issued, in pursuance of any law of the United States, to a
person who had died, or who hereafter dies, before the
date of such patent, the title to the land designated therein
-z2See Spear v. Tidball, 40 Neb. 107; Stenberg v. State ex rel., 48
Neb. 299, 316; Dowel v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327, 343, et seq.;
United States v. California& Oregon Land Co., 192 U. S. 355; Malin
v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142, 149, et seq.
aAct May 20, 1836, c. 76, 5 Stat. 31; § 2448 Rev. Stat.; § 1152,

Title 43, U. S. Code.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

shall inure to and become vested in the heirs, devisees, or
assignees of such deceased patentee as if the patent had
issued to the deceased person during his life."
The court noticed this statute, but was of opinion that
it "applies to homestead entries and not to Indian allotments." This, we hold, is a mistaken view. The statute
was in force long before homestead entries were permitted; and it has been held by this Court to be applicable to patents for Indian selections made under an Indian treaty, Crews v. Burcham, 1 Black 352, 356, and to
patents for Indian allotments made under an Act of Congress, United States v. Chase, 245 U. S. 89, 101. True,
it uses the term "public lands," which seldom is employed as including lands selected for or allotted to Indians. But the term sometimes is used in a sense which
includes such lands where the United States has retained
the title. This is illustrated in Kindred v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 582, 596, and Nadeau v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 253 U. S. 442, 444. The question usually is
one of intention, considering the nature and object of the
particular statute. Here the statute is highly remedial,
in that it is designed to relieve from the prior rule that a
patent issued after the death of the grantee is inoperative and void. Davenport v. Lamb, 13 Wall. 418, 427.
Patents to Indians are not less within the reason for the
statute than patents to white men; and we think its
letter may and should be taken as including both, as was
done in Crews v. Burcham and United States v. Chase.
We conclude that by reason of this statute the fee
simple patent to Greyhair, although issued 19 days after
his death, operated to invest his "heirs, devisees or assignees" with the title, and to divest the United States
of it, "as if" the patent had been issued to him "during
life." Of course those who received the title, whether
heirs, devisees or assignees, took it as though it came

LARKIN v. PAUGH.
431

Opinion of the Court.

from him, and not as if they were the immediate grantees
of the United States. See Harris v. Bell, 254 U. S. 103,
108. The statute leaves no room for doubt on this point.
With the issue of the patent, the title not only passed
from the United States but the prior trust and the incidental restriction against alienation were terminated.
This put an end to the authority theretofore possessed by
the Secretary of the Interior by reason of the trust and
restriction-so that thereafter all questions pertaining
to the title were subject to examination and determination
by the courts, appropriately those in Nebraska, the land
being there. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473; Lane
v. Mickadiet, 241 U. S. 201, 207, et seq.
Under the statute the title did not necessarily go to
the heirs. Devisees or assignees, if having a lawful claim,
would come first; and there well might be a question as
to who were the heirs, or whether there were devisees or
assignees having a better right. Such questions would
be among those which might be taken into the courts.
The contention to the contrary is without support in the
congressional statutes to which our attention is invited.
They all relate to lands held under trust patents or subject to restriction against alienation, and not to such as
have been freed from the trust and restriction, as here,
by the issue of a fee simple patent.
We are of opinion therefore that there was nothing in
the congressional statutes to prevent the local court from
taking and exercising jurisdiction of the administrator's
suit for specific performance, brought after the issue of
the fee simple patent. Of course we accept the ruling
of the Supreme Court that there was no want of jurisdiction under the state laws.
As the local court had jurisdiction, that enabled it to
decide every question of fact or law arising in the suit,
including the questions whether Greyhair's contract to

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

276 U. S..

sell to Osborn was valid or invalid in the circumstances
in which it was made, and whether by reason of its partial
performance while Greyhair was living Osborn became an
assignee in such a sense that the contract legally and
equitably might be enforced as against the heirs. These
questions inhered in the suit and necessarily were resolved
against the heirs by the decree for enforcement. No effort
was made to have the decree reviewed or vacated in any
direct proceeding. The attack made on it in the present
suit was collateral. Certainly there was no federal right
to have it reexamined or vacated on such an attack.
Judgment affirmed.
UNTERMYER, EXECUTRIX, ET AL. v. ANDERSON,
COLLECTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 221.

Argued February 27, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

I. The gift tax provisions of the Revenue Act, approved June 2, 1924
(see Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142), must be construed as
applying to gifts made at any time during that calendar year.
P. 445.
2. So far as applicable to bona fide gifts not made in anticipation of
death, and fully consummated prior to June 2, 1924, those provisions are arbitrary and invalid under the Due Process Clause of
the Fifth Amendment. Id.
3. The mere fact that a gift was made while the bill containing the
questioned provisions was in the last stage of progress through
Congress is not enough to differentiate this cause from the former
one and to relieve the legislation of its arbitrary character. P. 445.
18 F. (2d) 1023, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 730, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court in favor of the Collector, in an action against
him to recover an amount collected as a gift tax.

