494

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

age of thirty, or thirty-five, or forty. Obviously, the
calculation that the contingent interest of the charities
was equal to 4.0909 per cent of the residue, was mere
speculation bearing the delusive appearance of accuracy.
. One may guess, or gamble on, or even insure against,
any future event. The Solicitor General tells us that
Lloyds of London will insure against having twins. But
the fundamental question in the case at bar, is not
whether this contingent interest can be insured against
or its value guessed at, but what construction shall be
given to a statute. Did Congress in providing for the
determination of the net estate taxable, intend that a
deduction should be made for a contingency, the actual
value of which cannot be determined from any known
data? Neither taxpayer, nor revenue officer--even if
equipped with all the aid which the actuarial art can

supply-could do more than guess at the value of this
contingency. It is clear that Congress did not intend
that a deduction should be made for a contingent gift of
that character. Compare Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S.
61, 63.
Affirmed.

GROSFIELD ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 62. Argued January 4, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. The purpose of the provision of the National Prohibition Act

authorizing an injunction against occupation and use of premises
where liquor has been unlawfully manufactured, etc., is not
punitive, but preventive. P. 497.
2. In a suit under this section against the owner of leased premises
based on illegal manufacture of liquor by the tenant, lack of criminal participation by the owner is not a defence; nor is the fact
that the tenant was ousted and the illegal use ended before the

GROSFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
494

495

Opinion of the Court.

decree conclusive against granting the injunction, if the conduct
and statements of the owner furnish reasonable ground for apprehending a repetition of the use. P. 498.
3. After the injunction has been decreed, power remains in the District Court to permit the premises to be occupied or used upon
the giving of a bond with sufficient surety in the amount and upon
the conditions prescribed by the statute. P. 499.
District Court affirmed.
REVIEW of a decree of the District Court enjoining the
use, for the period of one year, of premises owned by
Grosfield and Caplis, the defendants in a suit brought by

the United States under the Prohibition Act. The case
first reached this Court through questions propounded
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, to which it had been
appealed. This Court ordered up the entire record.
Messrs. Harold Goodman and Edwin R. Monnig submitted for Grosfield and Caplis.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attor'ney General Mabel Walker Willebrandt and Mr. Norman
J. Morrison, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case came here from the court of appeals on certificate submitting certain questions upon which that
court desired instruction. Upon an order requiring it,
the entire record has been sent up for consideration. Judicial Code, § 239, as amended February 13, 1925, by c.
229, 43 Stat. 936, 938.
Suit was brought by the United States on March 11,
1925, in the federal district court for the Southern Division of the Eastern District of Michigan, against Grosfield
;and Caplis, owners, and Silverman, tenant, to enjoin the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

use of certain premises for the manufacture or sale of
intoxicating liquor and to close such premises, as a common nuisance, for a period of one year. On March 30th,
Grosfield and Caplis filed an answer, among other things
denying that the premises were a common nuisance, and
alleging that, as to whether intoxicating liquor was sold,
kept or bartered upon the premises, they had no knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief; that the
first information they received that the premises were
used for illegal purposes was contained in a newspaper
account of a raid [made January 17, 1925] containing the
information that various appliances for the manufacture
of intoxicating liquor had been found and seized; that
Silverman upon being spoken to declared that there would
be no violations of law upon the premises, that 'verything of an unlawful nature had been taken out, and a
lease of the premises was being negotiated for the storage
of paper; that, thereafter, upon the receipt of a copy of
the bill of complaint, steps were taken by defendants to
terminate Silverman's tenancy; and that they will proceed to oust him from the premises. On July 10, 1925,
after a hearing, the bill was dismissed as' to Silverman
and a decree entered against Grosfield and Caplis in accordance with the prayer. No effort appears to have been
made by those defendants to secure an order from the
district court allowing them to give a bond so as to permit
the continued occupation and use of the premises. The
only question for our consideration is whether the evidence submitted to the district court is sufficient to justify
the decree.
By § 21, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act, c. 85,
41 Stat.. 305, 314, any room, house, etc., where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, kept, or bartered in
violation of that title, is declared to be a common nuisance.
By § 22, it is provided that an action to enjoin such nuisance may be brought in the name of the United States,

GROSFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
494

Opinion of the Court.

to be tried as an action in equity; that it shall not be
necessary for the court to find that the property involved
was being unlawfully used at the time of the hearing, but
if the material allegations of the petition are found to be
true the court shall order that no liquor shall be manufactured, sold, etc., in such room, house, etc.; that upon
judgment abating the nuisance the court may order that
the premises shall not be occupied or used for one year
thereafter, but may in its discretion permit them to be
occupied or used upon the giving of a bond with sufficient
surety in the sum of not less than $500 nor more than
$1,000 conditioned that intoxicating liquor shall not thereafter be manufactured, sold, etc.
Evidence was introduced by the Government to the
effect that on January 17, 1925, nearly two months before
this suit was brought, police officers entered the premises
involved (then in Silverman's possession) and there found
and seized two 300-gallon copper stills in operation, two
copper tanks and other appliances used for the purpose
of manufacturing intoxicating liquor, 8,500 gallons of
sugar mash, and 60 gallons of whiskey distillate. Grosfield, who was the only witness for the defendants, testified: "I rented these premises to Silverman for the purpose of storing hay and straw. I had no knowledge of
any illegal use of the premises until this case. I have
caused the tenancy of Silverman to be terminated and
have rented the entire rear part of the building to the
Boston Paper Company for the storage of paper." Being
asked by the court: "You did not remove this tenant before the institution of these proceedings?" he answered:
"I had no knowledge that the premises were used in this
way until these proceedings were started."
Considering the evidence in connection with the sworn
answer of the defendants, we cannot say that the decree
is without adequate support. The purpose of the provision of the statute authorizing an injunction against
318°-28-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

occupancy and use is not punitive but preventive,
Murphy v. United States, 272 U. S. 630, 632; and it is no
answer to the suit to say that the owner did not participate in the criminal act of the tenant. That the tenant
may have been ousted and the illegal use of the premises
ended before the decree is not conclusive, if the evidence
furnish reasonable ground for apprehending a repetition
of such use. United States v. Pepe, 12 F. (2d) 985, 986;
Schlieder v. United States, 11 F. (2d) 345, 347; United
States v. Boynton, 297 Fed. 261, 267-268; Grossman v.
United States, 280 Fed. 683, 685-686. The evidence discloses that the illegal use of the premises was discovered
nearly two months prior to the bringing of this suit, with
full knowledge of which discovery defendants fairly may
be charged, having read a newspaper account of the raid
and talked with Silverman about it. When the answer
was filed, although two and one-half months had elapsed,
Silverman was still in possession, and the answer contains
the averment only that steps had been taken to terminate
his tenancy and a promise that defendants would proceed
to oust him. The tenancy was from month to month.
The circumstances called for prompt action; and the
failure of the owners of the premises to take any steps to
remove the offending tenant until after the suit had been
brought against them evinces a lack of concern not easily
reconcilable with a real desire upon their part to make
sure that the evil use of their property would not be repeated. Grosfield's statement-made in response to the
interrogative suggestion of the court that the tenant was
not removed before the institution of these proceedingsthat he had no knowledge that the premises were being
improperly used until the proceedings were begun, is inconsistent with the averment in the answer that he had
read the newspaper account in respect of the unlawful use
of the premises disclosed by the raid of January 17th.

MONT. BANK v. YELLOWSTONE COUNTY. 499
494

Syllabus.

That defendants, long before the suit against them was
begun, knew of the tenant's violation of law, is not
open to reasonable dispute; and their delay until after
suit to take steps to get rid of him, in the face of his
criminal use of the premises, well might be attributed to a
lack of good faith on their part. Nor is it unfair to say
that their failure to act until complaint was served upon
them, evidences a surrender to the unavoidable rather
than a voluntary effort to prevent a renewal of the
nuisance. The trial judge who saw Grosfield and heard
his testimony was better able to pass upon his credibility
and trustworthiness than are we.
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, we find
no ground for disturbing the conclusion upon which the
decree must rest, namely, that the premises ought to be
closed for a period long enough to end the probability of a
recurrence of their unlawful use. We are the more content
with this conclusion, since it is still within the power of
the district court to permit the premises to be occupied
or used upon the giving of a bond with sufficient surety
in the amount and upon the conditions prescribed by the
statute. See United States v. Pepe, supra; Schlieder v.
United States, supra, p. 347.
Decree affirmed.
THE MONTANA NATIONAL BANK OF BILLINGS
v. YELLOWSTONE COUNTY OF MONTANA ET AL.
-ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 207.

Argued January 20, 1928.--Decided April 9, 1928.

1. A substantial discrimination against national banks in favor of
incorporated state banks resulting from taxation of national bank
shares upon a valuation equal to that of the assets of the bank,
including bonds and like securities of the United States, while the
shares of the state banks are not taxed and the state banks them-

