SHAW v. OIL CORP'N.
567

Syllabus.

should be established. If his property will not be benefited by the establishment of the drainage this may be
shown at either hearing, and if shown at either hearing
his property will not be assessed."
The state court further held that upon this hearing the
land owner may be heard upon the question whether his
lands are benefited by the drainage system and the extent
of those benefits, if any, or whether the proposed assessment was unjust or unwarranted and may raise all constitutional objections to the assessment; citing Milne v. McKinnon, 32 S. Dak. 627, 631, 632; State ex rel. Curtis v.
Pound, 32 S. Dak. 492. From determinations of the
Board on either hearing appeals lie to the circuit court
under § 8469.
Appellants did not appear or file objections on the date
set for either hearing and under the state statute as
interpreted in State v. Risty, supra, thus lost their right
to urge any objection to the assessment. As the inclusion
of appellants' lands in the new assessment district depended wholly upon their being benefited by the proposed
improvements, their failure to avail of the opportunity
afforded by the statute to make the objections to the
assessment now urged forecloses all consideration of those
objections here. Farncomb v.. Denver, 252 U. S. 7; Milheim v. Moffat Tunnel Dist., 262 U. S. 710; Gorham Mfg.
Co. v. Tax Commissioner, 266 U. S. 265; First National
Bank v. Weld County, 264 U. S. 450.
Affirmed.
SHAW, AUDITOR, v. GIBSON-ZAHNISER OIL
CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 234.

Argued February 29, March 1, 1928.-Decided April 9,1928.

Land belonging to a non-Indian citizen of Oklahoma and subject
to state, county and municipal taxation, was purchased October 24,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

1915, under supervision of a county court and the Secretary of the
Interior, for a minor, full-blood Creek Indian with moneys derived
as royalties from a departmental lease of his restricted allotment.
The deed, as required by the Secretary and the court, provided
that the land should not be alienated or leased during the lifetime
of the grantee, prior to April 26, 1931, without the consent and
approval of the Secretary. The land was let for oil and gas
exploitation under a departmental lease, and a tax was levied upon
the leaseholders, under the state law, measured by a percentage
of the gross value of oil and gas produced, less the royalty interest
of the Indian owner. Held, in response to questions from the
Circuit Court of Appeals:
1. That the Secretary of the Interior, when the land was purchased, had no power to exempt it from such taxation. P. 577.
2. The tax was not a forbidden tax upon a federal instrumentality. Id.

RESPON SE to questions certified by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, concerning a judgment of the District Court
in favor of the above-named corporation, in an action to
recover money paid under protest as state taxes.
Mr. V. P. Crowe, Assistant Attorney General of Oklahoma, with whom Mr. Edwin Dabney, Attorney General,
was on the brief, for Shaw, State Auditor.
Mr. Charles B. Cochran for Gibson-Zahniser
Corporation.

Oil

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Defendants in error brought this suit in the district
court for western Oklahoma against plaintiff in error to
recover state taxes paid under protest. Judgment was
given for the plaintiff, and the case is now pending
on writ of error in the court of appeals for the eighth
circuit. That court has certified to this, questions of law
concerning which it asks instructions for the proper decision of the cause. Jud. Code § 239.

SHAW v. OIL CORP'N.
Opinion of the Court.

575

The certificate discloses that defendants in error are
the assignees of a departmental oil and gas lease of land
belonging to Miller Tiger, a full blood Creek Indian.
The leased land was purchased for Tiger while a minor
by his guardians, with the permission of the county court
of Okmulgee County, Oklahoma. The purchase price
came from the accumulated royalties of a departmental
lease of his restricted allotted lands. The purchase was
made of a non-Indian citizen of Oklahoma and th6 deed,
in compliance with conditions exacted by the Secretary
of the Interior and the county court, provided that the
land " should not be alienated or leased during the lifetime of the grantee prior to April 26, 1931, without the
consent of and approval by the Secretary of the Interior."
Before the purchase in 1915 the land had been subject to
state, county and municipal taxation. Since then local
ad valorem taxes on the land have been paid without
objection by the United States Indian Agency. The tax
now in question was levied and collected under Okla.
Comp. Stats. (1921) § 9814, which imposes on those engaged in the production of oil and gas a tax equal to 3%
of the gross value of the oil and gas produced "less the
royalty interest." The questions certified are as follows:
1. Had the Secretary of the Interior, on October 24,
1915, when this land was purchased, power to exempt
from such state taxation land purchased under his supervision for a full blood Creek Indian with trust funds of
that Indian, where the land so purchased was, at that
time, subject to all State taxes?
2. Is this tax a forbidden tax upon a federal instrumentality?
In Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S. 226, a restriction against alienation like that in the present case imposed by the Secretary on lands purchased for a Creek
318-2--37

578 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Indian, as were Tiger's, under § 1, c. 199 of the Act of May
27, 1908, 35 Stat. 312, was held to be a valid exercise of the
power of the Secretary to remove restrictions from the
land of full blood Indians "wholly or in part, under such
rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians
as he may prescribe." In an earlier case, McCurdy v.
United States, 246 U. S. 263, this Court had held that a
similar restriction upon lands similarly purchased for an
Osage Indian could not have the effect contended for
there, and here, of exempting the land from state taxation
for the reason that under the applicable provisions of a
different statute, § 5, c. 83, Act of April 18, 1912, 37 Stat.
86, the Secretary was without authority to impose the
restriction. And, in United States v. Ransom, 263 U. S.
691, affirming 284 Fed. 108, it was held, on the authority
of McCurdy v. United States, supra, that the state had
power to tax lands purchased for a Creek Indian citizen
with restrictions against alienation imposed by the Secretary under § 1 of the Act of May 27, 1908, which was the
statute later passed on in Sunderland v. United States,
supra. The construction to be placed on. these decisions
is that the lands now in question, and hence the interest
of the lessee in them, are not such instrumentalities of
the government as will be declared immune from taxation
in the absence of an express exemption by Congress and
that the mere act of the Secretary in imposing the restriction is not the exercise of any power which may reside in
Congress to exempt them from taxation.
What governmental instrumentalities will be held free
from state taxation, though Congress has not expressly
so provided, cannot be determined apart from the purposeand character of the legislation creating them. Metcalf
& Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514. The end sought and
the mode of attaining it adopted by Congress in the legislation providing for the welfare of the Indians by setting

SHAW v. OIL CORP'N.
575

.Opinion of the Court.

apart, by allotment or otherwise, tribal lands or the public
domain, restricted for their benefit, led to the conclusion
that those lands and the uses of them were so intimately
connected with the performance of governmental functions as clearly to require independence of all state control
so complete that nothing short of an express declaration
by Congress would have subjected them to state taxation.
Governmental agencies similarly held to be exempt are
national banks, First National Bank of Hartford v. Hartford, 273 U. S. 548; bonds of the national government,
Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 467;
such were and still are the restricted allotted or tribal
lands of the Indians: neither leases of those lands, Indian
Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S.
522, nor the exploitation of the land by the lessee, Howard
v. Gypsy Oil Co., 247 U. S. 503; Large Oil Co. v. Kansas,
248 U. S. 549; Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison, 235
U. S. 292; JaybirdMining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609, nor
his income from the lease, Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S.
501, may be taxed by the state.
The early legislation affecting the Indians had as .its
immediate object the closest control by the government
of their lives and property. The first and principal need
then was that they should be shielded alike from their
own improvidence and the spoliation of others but the
ultimate purpose was to give them the more independent
and responsible status of citizens and property owners.
The present statute which enabled Miller Tiger to become
the owner of the lands leased to the plaintiff is typical
of the latter course of Indian legislation, which discloses
a purpose to accomplish that end not only by the gradual
relinquishment of restrictions upon the lands originally
allotted to the Indians but by encouraging their acquisition of other property and gradually enlarging their control over it until independence should be achieved. See
McCurdy v. United States, supra.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The act under which Tiger's allotted land was leased
is entitled "An Act for the removal of restrictions from
part of the lands of allottees of the Five Civilized Tribes,
and for other purposes." It frees from all restriction the
lands of all allottees, of less than three-quarters Indian
blood. Section 1 empowers the Secretiry of the Interior
to remove the restrictions from the lands of full-blood
Indians "wholly or in part, under such rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of the proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians as he may
prescribe." Section 2 permits the allottees of lands from
which restrictions have not been removed to lease them
for a period of five years, "Provided, that leases of restricted lands for oil, gas or other mining purposes,
may be made with the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, under rules and regulations provided by
the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise." Under
§ 4 "all land from which restrictions have been or shall be
removed shall be subject to taxation and all other civil
burdens as though it were the property of other persons
than allottees of the Five Civilized Tribes." In this
as in other Indian legislation, opportunity is afforded for
their emancipation by imposing upon them duties as
well as giving them the privileges of citizens and property
owners, including the duty to pay taxes.
In a broad sense all lands which the Indians are permitted to purchase out of the taxable lands of the state
in this process of their emancipation and assumption of
the responsibility of citizenship, whether restricted or not,
may be said to be instrumentalities in that process. But
they are far less intimately connected with the performance of an essential governmental function than were
the restricted allotted lands, and the accomplishment of
their purpose obviously does not require entire independence of state control in matters of taxation. • To hold
them immune would be inconsistent with one of the very

SHAW v. OIL CORP'N.
575

Opinion of the Court.

purposes of their creation, to educate the Indians in responsibility, and would present the curious paradox that
the Secretary by a mere conveyancer's restriction, permitted by Congress, had rendered the land free from taxation and thus actually relieved the Indians of all responsibility. There are some instrumentalities which, though
Congress may protect them from state taxation, will
nevertheless be subject to that taxation unless Congress
speaks. See Goudy.v. Meath, 203 U. S. 146, 149; Gromer
v. Standard Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362, 371; Fidelty &
Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania,240 U. S. 319, 323; Railrolad
Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Choctaw 0. & G. R. R. v.
Mackey, 256 U. S. 531, 537; Central Pac. R. R. v. California, 162 U. S. 91, 126. These lands we take to be of
that character.
Little need be said as to the power of the Secretary of
the Interior to exempt the land and its uses from taxation. The power, if it exists, is one conferred by Congress, but neither it nor the Secretary has in terms purported to make or authorize such an exemption.
The Act of May 27, 1908, contains no express exemption from taxation of the proceeds of restricted lands, but
§ 4 expressly subjects lands from which restrictions have
been removed to state taxation. This section was adopted
in response to representations that the revenue of the
state of Oklahoma was insufficient for state purposes,
that large areas of lands within the state allotted to
Indians were exempt from taxation as agencies of the
federal government and that Indian citizens were enjoying the benefit of local government without taxation.
Report of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, S.
Rep. No. 575, 60th Cong., 1st Sess.; Report of the House
Committee on Indian Affairs, H. Rep. No. 1454, 60th
Cong., 1st Sess.
At the time of this legislation restrictions on some
allotted lands had been removed by reason of the expira-

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

tion of the restricted period. There were also allotments
on behalf of allottees dying before allotment which in
the hands of their heirs were unrestricted. See Tiger v.
Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286. It cannot be
assumed that Congress at a time when it was withdrawing allotted lands from their former exemption in order
that Indian citizens might assume the just burdens of
state taxation, intended to extend a tax exemption by
implication. In any case the Secretary of the Interior
has never, by rule or regulation or other action, purported to exempt such lands from state taxation. No
such action is to be implied from his authorized action in
restricting the power of the Indian grantee to alienate
the land. See United States v. Ransom, supra; 'United
States v. Brown, 8 F. (2d) 564; United States. v. Gray,
284 Fed. 103; United States v. Mummert, 15 F. (2d) 926.
Question 1: Answered No.
Question 2: Answered No.
HEINER, COLLECTOR, v. TINDLE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 341. Argued March 7, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1918, § 215, (a), 5, the devotion of a
house theretofore purchased and used as the taxpayer's residence,
exclusively to the production of taxable income in the form of
rentals, is a "transaction entered into for profit" as of the date
when the change was made; and when such change occurred
before March 1, 1913, and the new use continued until the property was sold at a loss after the date of the Act, the amount of
loss deductible in computing net income is the difference between
the sale price and the value of the property on the date of the
change, or, if that value be larger than the March 1, 1913, value,
then the difference between the sale price and the value on March
1, 1913. P. 585.

