LONGEST v. LANGFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

LONGEST v. LANGFORD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 52.

Submitted October 19, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

Under ยง 22 of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Agreement of July 1, 1902,
lands allotted in the name of a married Choctaw woman who died
after the ratification of the Agreement and before receiving her
allotment, pass to those who are her heirs according to c. 49 of
Mansfield's Digest, free from any claim of curtesy. See Marlin v.
Lewallen, ante, p. 58. P. 71.
114 Okla. 50, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

274 U. S. 499, to a judgment of the Supreme

Court of Oklahoma sustaining a claim to an estate of
curtesy in lands allotted and patented in the name and
right of a Choctaw woman after her decease.
Messrs. H. A. Ledbetter and H. E. Ledbetter were on
the brief for petitioner.
Messrs. W. F. Semple, S. Russell Bowen, Guy Green,

and Robert R. Pruetwere on the brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
A claim to an estate by the curtesy in lands allotted
and patented in the name and right of a Choctaw woman
then deceased is here in controversy. It was sustained
by the state court. 114 Okla. 50. The allotment was
made and the patent issued under two agreements between the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw
tribes. Act June 28, 1898, c. 517, ยง 29, 30 Stat. 505;
Act July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641.
The agreements set forth a comprehensive scheme for
allotting the lands of the two tribes in severalty among

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

their members, distributing the tribal funds and dissolving
the tribes. There were also many other related provisions. Nothing was said about curtesy. The agreements
were strictly special laws for the Choctaws and Chickasaws.
By prior enactments couched in general terms Congress
had put in force in the Indian Territory, and made applicable to the people therein irrespective of race, several
statutes of Arkansas.' One of these Arkansas statutes-.
chapter 20 of Mansfield's Digest-had been construed as
recognizing a form of curtesy consummate attaching on
the death of the wife intestate where she was then seized
of the land. Another-chapter 49 of the same publication-related to descent and distribution. The Choctaw
and Chickasaw lands were in the Indian Territory, and so
were the lands of several other Indian tribes. The claim
in this case is rested on the adopted Arkansas law of
curtesy.
The second of the two agreements--it largely superseded the first-required that the lands of the two tribes
be allotted among the enrolled members who were living
at the date of its ratification. Anticipating that some of
these might die before the allotments were made, the
agreement provided in ยง 22:
"If any person whose name appears upon the rolls,
prepared as herein provided, shall have died subsequent
to the ratification of this agreement and before receiving
his allotment of land the lands to which such person
would have been entitled if living shall be allotted in his
name, and shall, together with his proportionate share
of other tribal property, descend to his heirs according
to the laws of descent and distribution as provided in
chapter forty-nine of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes
of Arkansas."
1 These congressional enactments and the indicated Arkansas laws
are described in Marlin v. Lewallen, ante, p. 58.

WAREHOUSE CO. v. TOBACCO GROWERS.

71

Syllabus.

69

The lands in dispute were allotted under that section;
and the real controversy here is over its construction. It
is part of a special law put in force with the solicited
assent of the Choctaws and Chickasaws and applicable
only to them. We think it would be understood by the
Indians as meaning that lands allotted under it in the
name of a deceased member should pass to those who
would be his or her heirs according to chapter 49 of
Mansfield's Digest. With that chapter specially designated and chapter 20-the sole basis of the Arkansas law
of curtesy-not mentioned the Indians certainly would
not understand that curtesy was intended. It follows
that ยง 22 must be construed as intended to pass the full
title free from any claim to curtesy. Marlin v. Lewallen,
ante, p. 58.
Judgment reversed.

LIBERTY WAREHOUSE COMPANY v. BURLEY
TOBACCO GROWERS' CO-OPERATIVE MARKETING ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 18.

Argued February 23, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. A party challenging a judgment of a state court must show that
its enforcement would deprive him, not another, of some right
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States properly asserted below. P. 88.
2. The power lodged in state courts to conform their proceedings to
reasonable requirements of local law was not abused in this case by
an order striking a part of the answer, based apparently upon the
Kentucky Declaratory Judgment Law, asking the court to determine the validity of the statute here in question and to declare
defendant's rights and duties, and advancing a counterclaim.

P. 88.
3. Semble that the Kentucky Declaratory Judgment Law does not
authorize a defendant to ask judgment by ,counterclaim.. P. 88.

