560

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

of his survey, showing the method used by him in ascertaining and locating the line of the boundary, and a map
showing the boundary line as run and marked by him;
also ten copies of his report and map.
6. Before entering upon his work the commissioner shall
take and subscribe his oath to perform his duties faithfully and impartially. He shall prosecute the work with
diligence and dispatch, and shall have authority to employ
such assistants as may be needed therein; and he shall
include in his report a statement of the work done, the
time employed and the expenses incurred.
7. The work of the commissioner shall be subject in all
its parts to the approval of the Court. One copy each
of the commissioner's report and map shall be promptly
transmitted by the clerk to the Governors of the two
States; and exceptions or objections to the commissioner's
report, if there be such, shall be presented to the Court,
or, if it be not in session, filed with the clerk, within forty
days after the report is filed.
8. If, for any reason, there occurs a vacancy in the commission when the Court is not in session, the same may be
filled by the designation of a new commissioner by the
Chief Justice.
9. All the costs of the cause not heretofore adjudged,
including the compensation and expenses of the commissioner, shall be borne in equal parts by the two States.
WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
BRAFFET, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 344. Argued March 8, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Under Rev. Stats. § 2347, and Rule I of the Regulations of the
Land Department of March 6, 1903, an application to purchase coal

WORK v. BRAFFET.
Opinion of the Court.

560

lands within a previously surveyed school section conferred upon
the applicant merely the status of a contestant endeavoring to
overcome the presumptive title of the State upon the ground (in
this case) that the mineral character of the land was known before
the school grant attached. P. 565.
2. This amounted to no more than a privilege of seeking to restore
the land applied for to the public domain; and success in the
contest would not have brought the contestant a preferential right
of entry, there being no statute or regulation securing him such a
preference. Id.
3. Such a privilege was subject to withdrawal by the United States
pending the contest, and was withdrawn by the Act of February
25, 1920, which provides that coal lands shall be disposed of only
by lease, excepting only (§ 37), " valid claims existent at the date
of the passage of this Act and thereafter maintained in compliance
with the laws under which initiated, which claims may be perfected
under such laws," etc. Id.
4. The exception in the Leasing Act, above quoted, embraces only
such substantial claims as would on compliance with the provisions
of the former law, ripen into ownership. P. 566.
57 App. D. C. 192, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 514,. to a judgment of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, sustaining a mandamus to the Secretary of the Interior, directing him to
issue a patent for coal lands applied for by the present
respondent, upon payment of the purchase price.

Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. E. 0.
Patterson, Solicitor, Department of the Interior, and
0. H. Graves, Assistant to the Solicitor, were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Walter Edmund Burke for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion4 of the Court.

Respondent's intestate brought suit in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia for a mandatory injunction compelling the Secretary of the Interior to vacate his decision rejecting an application under R. S.
§ 2347 for the purchase of certain coal lands included in
318-28-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

the school-land grant to Utah, and directing that a patent
issue. The case was heard on bill and answer from
which it appears that the land in question, is part of section 32 in a particular township in Utah. Section 32 of
each township was included in the school-land grant to the
state of Utah under the Enabling Act of July 16, 1894,
c. 138, 28 Stat. 107, 109, which became effective on the
admission of Utah into the Union January 4, 1896. But
the grant did not include any land that was known to be
mineral. United States v. Sweet, 245 -U. S. 563. In the
official government survey the land in question was reported by the surveyor as non-mineral. In May, 1902,
the state sold the lands and the purchaser later conveyed
them to the Pleasant Valley Coal Company which has
since appeared as the record owner and paid taxes on
them. On February 4, 1918, Braffet, respondent's intestate, filed in the local land office at Salt Lake City his
application to purchase the lands as coal lands. At this
time and for many years before, the settled practice of
the Land Office, under Rule 1 of the Regulations of
March 6, 1903, 32 L. D. 39, had been to treat applications
for purchase, under the mining laws, of parts of a section
designated i the school-land grant, where made after
the date when the grant would attach if the land was
non-mineral, as a contest of the state's right.
Braffet's application was so treated. The state was
cited and answered, protesting the application and setting
up that the lands were not known coal lands on the date
of the grant to it. The coal company intervened and
made like answer. Braffet assumed the burden of the
contest and offered evidence. At the conclusion of his
case motions of the state and the coal company to dismiss
were granted without the submission of testimony in
their behalf. Braffet appealed to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, who reversed the action of the
local land office and without affording the state or the

WORK v. BRAFFET.
560

Opinion of the Court.

coal company opportunity to offer evidence, directed that
Braffet's contest be sustained and the protest of the state
dismissed. The state and the coal company appealed to
the Secretary who, July 31, 1922, held that the local office
had erred in dismissing the contest for insufficiency of
evidence, and that the Commissioner had also erred in
disposing of the case without affording the state and the
coal company an opportunity to offer evidence. He remanded the cause to the local office to proceed with the
contest. 49 L. D. 212.
In the meantime the Leasing Act of February 25, 1920,
c. 85, 41 Stat. 437, 438, 451, had been enacted, authorizing
the disposition of certain classes of mineral lands of the
United States, including coal lands, by the Secretary of
the Interior only by lease. Acting under this statute
the Secretary, on June 4, 1923, executed a lease of the
land to the coal company which, in contemplation of
this action, had waived its claim under the state grant,
expressly stipulating that its waiver was on condition
that the lease be granted. The state in the meantime
had withdrawn its protest to Braffet's application, without prejudice to the claim of the company, setting up
that it had no beneficial interest in the land, by reason
of its own conveyance to the coal company's grantor.
Braffet's contest was dismissed January 8, 1924, and
his application to reopen it was denied on March 24,
1924. Later, the present suit was brought. The decree of the Supreme Court of the District directed the
Secretary to vacate his decision remanding the proceed'ings to the local office, and to issue a patent on payment
of the purchase price. The Court of Appeals modified the
'judgment in respects not now material, but held that
Braffet's application was valid and that the Secretary
should be directed to issue a patent. 57 App. D. C. 192.
The principal question presented is whether, by the application to purchase and by bringing and conducting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

contest, Braffet acquired rights which could not be or
were not extinguished by the action taken by the Secretary under the Leasing Act. In giving an affirmative
answer the Court of Appeals thought that as the Secretary had ruled that Braffet had made a prima facie case

before the Department, the abandonment by the State
and the coal company of the protest and their assent
that the mineral lease be given were equivalent to the
allowance of his claim, and that the Secretary under the
Leasing Act was without power to defeat the claim since
it had then ripened into a vested right.
After the Leasing Act, coal lands of the United
States were subject to disposition by the Secretary only
by lease "except [under § 37] as to valid claims existent
at date of the passage of this Act and thereafter maintained in compliance with the laws under which initiated,
which claims may be perfected under such laws, including
discovery." Braffet's application was for the purchase
of coal lands and not for a lease. It was not entitled
to consideration under the Leasing Act unless saved by
the exception as a " valid claim" existent at the date of
the Act.
R. S. § 2347, under which the application was made
gives the "right to enter . .
vacant coal lands of
the United States not otherwise appropriated or reserved
by competent authority." The departmental Regulations
of March 6, 1903, 32 L. D. 39, withdrew school lands from
entry with direction to local officers to treat applications
for them in the same manner as contests. Rule 1 reads:
"When a school section is identified by the government
survey and no claim is at the date when the right of the
State would attach, if at all, asserted thereto under the
mining or other public-land laws, the presumption arises
that the title to the land has passed to the State, but this
presumption may be overcome by the submission of a
satisfactory showing to the contrary. Applications pre-

WORK v. BRAFFET.
560

Opinion of the Court.

sented under the mining laws covering parts of a school
section will be disposed of in the same manner as other
contest cases."
This rule has never been expressly repealed. The Department has consistently held that it is applicable to school
lands, Charles L. Ostenfeldt, 41 L. D. 265; Santa Fe Pac.
R. R. V. California,34 L. D. 12, and that applications for
tracts embraced in an entry of record give rise to no rights
until the entry has been cancelled of record, Walker v.
Snider, 19 L. D. 467; Stewart v. Peterson, 28 L. D. 515,
519; Hiram M. Hamilton, 38 L. D. 597.
The rule is an appropriate application to school-land
grants of the established policy of the Department to treat
as excluded from entry or preemption lands which may,
in the execution of the laws of Congress, fall within the
claims of others, a policy which avoids confusion and conflicting claims. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Holt v.
Murphy, 207 U. S. 407, 414.
Under both R. S. § 2347, conferring the right to purchase only "vacant coal lands of the United States not
otherwise appropriated or reserved by competent authority," and Rule 1, supra, as interpreted and applied by the
Department, we think that Braffet, by his application,
acquired no legal status other than that of a contestant,
and that this amounted to no more than a privilege of
seeking to restore the lands to entry. The pending contest presented no obstacle to the withdrawal of the privilege by the United States. Compare Shepley v. Cowan,
supra;Frisbiev. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; The Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77; Campbell v. Wade, 132 U. S. 34,
37; United States v. Norton, 19 F. (2d) 836; Alice M.
Reason, 36 L. D. 279, 280-1; Instructions, 40 L. D. 415,
416, 417. Plainly it was withdrawn by the provisions
of the Leasing Act, already quoted, unless saved by the
exception "in favor of valid claims existent at the date of
passage." Even if so saved the land would have been

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

restored to entry only if the contest were determined in
respondent's favor, which was not done.
But we think that the exception in § 37 was not intended to save so nebulous and insubstantial a claim as
that of the privilege of contesting the presumptive title
of the state. The construction argued for would tend
to defeat the purpose of the Leasing Act which vas to
prevent the sale of the mineral lands of the United States
where substantial rights had not been acquired in them, and
to permit their exploitation only by lessees paying royalties to the Government. The reference in § 37 to valid
claims" thereafter maintained in compliance with the laws
under which initiated, which claims may be perfected
under such laws, including discovery" at least suggests
that they embrace only such substantial claims as would
on compliance with the provisions of the former law
ripen into ownership; such claims as might be'acquired
under the mining laws by location, possession and development which, if continued to discovery and entry,
would entitle the claimant to a patent. That such was
the purpose is established by the Congressional debates.
58 Cong. Rec. pt., 5, pp. 4577-4585. 66th Cong. 1st Sess.
Here the claim of the contestant was not one which
would necessarily ever come to fruition in ownership for,
if successful, he would not have been entitled to entry or
patent in preference to any other citizen desiring to apply
for the land. In the absence of a statute or a departmental
regulation securing it, there is no preference right. Compare Hartmanv. Warren, 76 Fed. 157; Howell v. Sappington, 165 Fed. 944; CharlesL. Ostenfeldt, 41 L. D. 265, 267.
As the provisions of the Leasing Act precluded the contestant, if successful, from purchasing the lands in question as coal lands, his contest was rightly dismissed, and
it becomes unnecessary to consider the effect upon the
proceedings in the Department of the withdrawal of the
State's protest.

CHICAGO,

ETC.

R. R. v. RISTY.

567

Statement of the Case.

560

Whether if the situation were otherwise the Secretary
could by a mandatory injunction be directed to issue a
patent, we need not consider. No decision of this Court
has given sanction to such a direction.
Reversed.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & PACIFIC

RAILROAD COMPANY v. RISTY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 501.

Argued February 21, 23, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. A decree dismissing a suit to enjoin special tax assessments which
in terms is without prejudice to the right of the plaintiff to contest the matters in question as though the suit had not been instituted or the decree entered, does not bar subsequent litigation of
the same question. P. 569.
2. Due process of law does not require notice of a proceeding to
determine merely whether an improvement shall be constructed,
if land owners are later afforded an opportunity to be heard and
to show that their property should not be assessed. P. 573.
3. A land owner, who, being duly notified, fails to avail himself of
an opportunity afforded by a state statute to be heard upon the
question whether his land will be benefited by a proposed public
improvement and upon the constitutionality of including it in the
proposed improvement district, cannot raise the question in this
Court in a suit attacking the resulting assessment. P. 574.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court refusing an
interlocutory injunction against apportionment and assessment of benefits on appellant's land for the maintenance
of a drainage system.
The suit was brought by Byram et al., as Receivers of
the C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. The C., M. & St. P. R. R.
Company was substituted in this Court.

Messrs. H. E. Judge and T. M. Bailey, with whom
Messrs. C. 0. Bailey, H. H. Field, 0. W. Dynes, H. H.

