252

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

not exceed its constitutional power by imposing more
than one form of tax as a charge for the use of its highways in interstate commerce. It is for appellant to show
that the aggregate charge bears no reasonable relation to
the privilege granted.
It is further objected that the provision of the state
statute, Part II § 3, authorizing the suspension of registration as a remedy for the nonpayment of the mileage
tax, is invalid in any case, since payment of even a lawful
tax may not be enforced by the exclusion of the taxpayer
from interstate commerce. Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; St. Lotuis & Southwestern R. R. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350. And it is not
denied that appellees have threatened to invoke § 3
against appellant. But we need not consider here
whether the principle relied on goes so far as to prevent a
state from excluding from its highways a motor carrier
which refuses to pay a charge for their use. Compare
Hendrick v. Maryland, supra; Kane v. New Jersey, supra;
Clark v. Poor, supra. Here the relief sought presupposes
that the tax is unconstitutional. That point being determined against appellant we shall not assume that it will
persist in its refusal to pay the tax.
Objections' of less moment, which we have considered,
do not require comment.

Affirmed.

WESTERN UNION

TELEGRAPH
PRIESTER.

COMPANY

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS AND THE SUPREME
COURT OF ALABAMA
Nos. 183 and 189.

Argued January 17, 1928.-Decided February 20,
1928.

1. Where the supreme court of a State, in denying a petition for
certiorari to an intermediate appellate court, on the face of the
record did not pass upon the merits, the writ of certiorari from
this court is properly directed to the intermediate court. P. 258.

WESTERN UNION v. PRIESTER.
252

Argument for Petitioner.

2. A provision in the tariff filed by a telegraph company pursuant to
the Interstate Commerce Act as amended June 15, 1910, fixing a
lower rate for an unrepeated message and limiting the liability of
the company for mistake in its transmission to the amount received
for sending it, represents the entire liability of the company for a
mistake of that kind. The liability being statutory, can not be
enlarged by the courts upon the ground that the mistake was due
to "gross" negligence. P. 258.
21 Ala. App. 587, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 727, to a judgment of the Court
of Appeals of the State of Alabama affirming a recovery
in an action against the Telegraph Company for damages resulting from a mistake in the transmission of a
telegram. The Supreme Court of the State had declined
to review the judgment of the court below, 215 Ala. 435.
For earlier proceedings in the same case, see 18 Ala. App.
531; 20 Id. 388; 212 Ala. 271.
Mr. FrancisR. Stark, with whom Mr. Ray Rushton was
on the brief, for petitioner.
There has been no independent expression of opinion
by this Court in the case of Primrose v. Western Union,
154 U. S. 1, or in any other case, to the effect that there
was any magic in the term "gross" negligence that would
invalidate the message contract.
This Court has consistently refused to recognize that
there was any legal distinction between the different degrees of negligence, and has apparently inclined to, if not
definitely adopted, the view that gross negligence is nothing but negligence with the addition of a vituperative
pithet. The degree of negligence is immaterial since
the Act of 1910. Western Union v. Esteve Bros., 256
U. S. 566.
This case involves a simple error in an unrepeated message, and the applicable clause of the published tariffs is
that which limited the company's liability to the amount
received for sending the message. Western Union v
Czizek, 264 U. S. 281.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

276 U. S.

There was no evidence that the negligence was "gross,"
as distinguished from simple, if that question were at all
material.
If it is said that the mere error in transmission makes
a prima facie case of simple negligence, that may be
granted; but it is not gross negligence unless all negligence
is gross, and unless this Court erred in its carefully considered opinion in Postal Telegraph Co. v. Warren Godwin Lumber Co., 251 U. S. 27, and in its reversal, per
curiam, of Western Union v. Southwick, 255 U. S. 565.
If the degree of negligence were at all material, it was
fatal error to charge the jury that they might find the
defendant liable if it failed to "Bestow the care and skill
which the situation demanded "-i. e., if the defendant
was guilty of nothing more than simple negligence.
In any event, the plaintiff could not possibly have been
entitled to more than $50, the amount at which the message was valued. Western Union v. Czizek, 264 U. S. 281.
Mr. D. M. Powell for respondent.
The rules of the telegraph company relieving it from
liability beyond the cost of sending the unrepeated message do not apply where the company is guilty of wilful
wrong or gross negligence. Primrose v. Western Union,
154 U. S. 1; Western Union v. Esteve Bros., 256 U. S.
569; Milwaukee R. R. Co. v. Arms, 91 U. S. 495; Preston
v. Prather,137 U. S. 608.
Gross negligence was not defined in the Primrose case,
but we assume the Court must have had in mind the
definition given in the Arms and Preston cases, supra.
Be that as it may, the doctrine of gross negligence has
been applied by both state and federal courts to cases
where the facts were similar to the facts in this case. Ex
parte Priester, 212 Ala. 273; Strong v. Western Union,
18 Idaho 389; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Nichols, 159 Fed.
647; White v. Western Union, 14 Fed. 710; Redington v.

WESTERN UNION v. PRIESTER.
252

Argument for Respondent.

Pacific Postal Telegraph Co., 107 Calif. 317; 26 R. C. L.,
552, 605.
The different rates, rules and regulations for sending
messages as prescribed by the company were filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission and became effective with the federal statutes. Western Union v. Esteve
Bros., 256 U. S. 569.
They were previously held to be reasonable by this
Court in the case of Primrose v. Western Union, 154
U. S. 1, in the absence of wilful misconduct or gross
negligence. The law declared in the Primrose case, is
quoted with approval in Western Union v. Esteve Bros.,
supra. A fair interpretation of this decision, as well as
the other decisions of the federal courts relied on by respondent, leads to the conclusion that the classification
of rates and the limitations upon the telegraph company's liability which were filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, were accepted by the Commission
subject to the interpretation placed upon them in the
Primrose case. Being so received, these rates and rules
and regulations measured the liability of the telegraph
company in all cases where there was an absence of willful misconduct or gross negligence, as declared in the
Primrose case.
The mere filing of the rates with the Interstate Commerce Commission did not give them any greater force
than they had at the time of such filing and did not destroy the judicial interpretation placed upon them by
this Court.
Statutes in derogation of the common law are to be
strictly construed. 25 R. C. L., 1056. The judicial construction of the regulation in the Primrose case was embodied in and became a part of the statute enacted June
18, 1910.
In Western Union v. Czizek, 286 Fed. 478, the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals held the telegraph com-

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

pany under the facts was guilty of gross negligence. This
Court held under the facts that it was not guilty of gross
negligence and was therefore protected by the rules and
regulations. No other question was decided. This case
is not in point. The other expressions in the opinion relied on by petitioner were dicta.
From the very language of the statute, where the rules
and regulations are unreasonable, they are, of course, not
binding.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent delivered to petitioner a message for transmission over its telegraph lines from a point in Alabama
to a point in Louisiana by which respondent offered to
sell to the addressee a quantity of pecans at fifty cents per
pound. In the message as transmitted the word "fifteen"
was substituted for the word " fifty." Respondent, who
in consequence of the error suffered damage in the sum
of $352.10, brought suit in the Circuit Court of Butler
County, Alabama, to recover for petitioner's negligence in
failing to transmit the message as given. The company
pleaded that (a) as the message was not a repeated message its liability was limited to the amount received for
sending it, by the terms of the tariffs and classifications
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission under Act
of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539 § 1, and (b) as the
message was not sent as a specially valued message the
liability of the company was limited to $50 by the filed
tariffs and classifications. Relevant parts of the tariff
are printed in the margin.1
-"AL MESSAGES TAKEN BY THIS COMPANY ARE SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING TERMS.
"To guard against mistakes or delays, the sender of a message
should order it repeated, that is telegraphed back to the originating
office for comparison. For this one-half the unrepeated message rate

WESTERN UNION v. PRIESTER.
Opinion of the Court.

252

These defenses were overruled and judgment given
for the plaintiff, the respondent here, which was reversed by the state Court of Appeals, 18 Ala. App. 531,
on the authority of Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Esteve Bros. & Co., 256 U. S. 566. Upon an amended
complaint charging gross negligence a trial was had resulting in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for nominal
damages, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals on
the ground that the evidence did not establish gross
negligence and that the trial court had rightly withdrawn
that question from the jury. 20 Ala. App. 388. The
Supreme Court of Alabama reversed the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, ruling that although the filed tariff was
a bar to the recovery of damages resulting from negligence,
as decided in the Esteve case, it did not preclude a recovery for gros negligence and that on the evidence the
jury should have been allowed to say whether the negliis charged in addition. Unless otherwise indicated on its face, THIS
IS AN UNREPEATED MESSAGE AND PAID FOR AS SUCH,
in 'consideration whereof it is agreed between the sender of the
message and the Company as follows:
" 1. The Company shall not be liable for mistakes or delays in the

transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery, of an unrepeated message, beyond the amount received for sending the same; nor for mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for non-delivery,
of any repeated message beyond fifty times the sum received for
sending the same, unless specially valued; nor in any case for delays
arising from unavoidable interruption in the working of its lines; nor
for errors in cipher or obscure messages.
"2. In any event the Company shall not be liable for damages for
any mistakes or delays in the transmission or delivery, or for nondelivery of this message, whether caused by the negligence of its
servants or otherwise, beyond the sum of Fifty Dollars, at which
amount this message is hereby valued, unless a greater value is stated
in writing hereon at the time the message is offered to the Company
for transmission, and an additional sum paid or agreed to be paid
based on such value equal to one-tenth of one per. cent. thereof."
318°-28-17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

gence of the defendant was gross. Ex parte Priester,212
Ala. 271. On a retrial, judgment was again given for the
plaintiff for the full amount demanded. This was affirmed by the Court of Appeals which, following the
previous opinion of the state Supreme Court, held that
the tariff was not a defense to an action for damages resulting from gross negligence. 21 Ala. App. 587. The
state Supreme Court denied certiorari, 215 Ala. 435. This
Court granted certiorari. Jud. Code, 237 (b); 274
U. S. 727.
Through abundance of caution petitioner filed separate
petitions here, which were granted, asking that writs of
certiorari be directed respectively to the Court of Appeals
and to the Supreme Court. But as the Supreme Court
of Alabama, by denying the petition for certiorari, on the
face of the record did not pass on the merits, the writ of
this Court in number 183 was properly directed to the
Court of Appeals, and that in number 189 is dismissed.
Norfolk Turnpike Co. v. Virginia, 225 U. S. 264, 269;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364;
compare Matthews v. Huwe, 269 U. S. 262.
In Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 154 U. S.
1, relied upon by the Supreme Court of Alabama in the
earlier appeal as supporting its distinction between ordinary negligence and gross negligence, a contract between
the telegraph company and its patron, limiting the liability of the company if the message was not repeated,
was upheld as a defense to an action seeking recovery for
the negligent transmission of the message. Although it
is suggested in the opinion (pp. 17-19) that as a matter
of public policy the company would not have been permitted to stipulate away its liability for gross negligence,
the distinction was neither involved in the case nor applied by the Court, nor has it been so applied. See Philadelphia & Reading R. R. v. Derby, 14 How. 468, 485, 486;

WESTERN UNION v. PRIESTER.
252

Opinion of the Court.

Steamboat New World v. King, 16 How. 469, 474; Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. v. Arms, 91 U. S. 489, 493-495.
Since the decision in the Primrose case the telegraph
companies have been brought under the .provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act and their tariffs for all interstate
service made subject to the approval of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Interstate Commerce Act § 1,
as amended by Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 7, 36 Stat.
539. By § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act it is provided that subject to the approval of the Commission
messages received by telegraph companies for transmission may be classified into "repeated, unrepeated ...
and such other classes as are just and reasonable, and
different rates may be charged for the different classes of
messages." The established rates for unrepeated messages thus became the lawful rates and the attendant
limitation of liability became the lawful condition upon
which messages might be sent. Unrepeated Message
Case, 44 I. C. C. 670; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Esteve Bros. & Co., supra, 571; Postal Telegraph-Cable
Co. v. Warren-Godwin Co., 251 U. S. 27; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Boegli, 251 U. S. 315; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Czizek, 264 U. S. 281. What had previously been a matter of common law liability, with such
contractual restrictions as the states might permit, then
became the subject of federal legislation to secure reasonable and just rates for all without undue preference or
advantage to any. Since that end is attainable only by
adherence to the approved rate, based upon an authorized
classification, that rate "represents the whole duty and
the whole liability of the company." Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Esteve Bros. & Co., supra. Such being
the basis of liability, we do not perceive any adequate
ground upon which it may be enlarged, merely by the
application of a "vituperative epithet" to the admitted

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

fault of the petitioner. Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. v.
Arms, supra, 494. For if it be assumed that we can weigh
and measure degrees of negligence and that a public service company may not by contract alone limit its liability
for gross negligence, so-called, nevertheless we may not
disregard a lawful exercise of the regulatory power which
has made no distinction between degrees of negligence,
nor may we, upon any theory of public policy, annex to
the rate as made conditions affecting its uniformity and
equality.
The message here was unrepeated and the loss resulted
from a mistake in transmission. The case thus comes
within the express provision of clause 1 of the tariff, limiting the liability to the amount received for the service.
The cause will be reversed and remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
SALTONSTALL ET AL. v. SALTONSTALL ET AL.,
TRUSTEES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 144.

Argued January 5, 6, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. A decision of a state court applying a state statute over the ambiguous objection that it is "unconstitutional" is reviewable here
in so far as that court interpreted the objection as based on the
Federal Constitution, and, in its opinion, sustained the statute
under that instrument. P. 267.
2. By Massachusetts Acts of 1909, c. 527, § 8, a transfer of property
passing to anyone through the failure of any person to exercise a
power of appointment, is made taxable under an Act of 1907, which
as amended, 1916, taxes property passing by gift made or intended
to take effect in possession or enjoyment after the death of the
donor. A trust, established before the dates of these acts, when
interests piassing to children were not subject to transfer tax, gave

