OCTOBER TERM. 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

plate any such statement. It is not a part of or material
to the prescribed proceedings. The city council is the
governing body of the city, but it did not make or authorize the statement. The officers who signed the certificate
were not authorized to define the improvement district,
make the assessment, issue or sell the bonds or to bind
the respondent to pqy for such improvements. It cannot reasonably be said that they are impliedly authorized
to make any statement or give assurance in respect of such
matters.
This action is not based on contract. Recovery is not
claimed on the ground that respondent was empowered
to pay for the work out of funds belonging to it or upon
any promise that it would do so. As no actionable negligence or misrepresentation is shown, the lower courts
rightly held that no cause of action is stated in the complaint. We find no conflict between the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in this case and thb decisions referred to in the petition for this writ.
Judgment affirmed.
DANCIGER AND EMERICH OIL COMPANY v.
SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FIFTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 224. Argued February 27, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. An adjudication in bankruptcy, until followed by the appointment

of a trustee, does not divest the bankrupt's title to a cause of
action against a third person or prevent him from instituting or
maintaining suit thereon. P. 545.
2. S assigned to some of his creditors, as security, a claim on which
he had begun suit; agreed to prosecute the suit for their account
and, more than four months thereafter, began voluntary bankruptcy proceedings in which no trustee was appointed and in
which he concealed the claim and Was discharged. Held that the

DANCIGER,
542

ETC.

OIL CO. v. SMITH.

Argument for Petitioner.

-

question whether the assignment was void as to his other creditors
could not be raised by the defendants against the prosecution of
the suit by the bankrupt. P. 547.
286 S. W. 633, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 733, to a judgment of the Court

of Civil Appeals of Texas, affirming a judgment recovered
by the respondent after his discharge in voluntary bankruptcy proceedings, in an action brought by him more
than four months before his petition in bankruptcy was
filed.
Mr. I. J. Ringolsky, with whom Messrs. Charles L. Black
and T. F. Hunter were on the brief, for petitioner.
The Texas statute required an assignment of a chose in
action to be in writing, acknowledged and filed in order to
be valid as against persons subsequently dealing with reference to it. This section was not complied with as to
either assignment. Consequently, these assignments
were, under the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, void
as against a trustee in bankruptcy, and this chose in action
was as much a part of respondent's estate in bankruptcy
as though the assignments never existed.
The assignments being given as security, even if valid
as against a trustee in bankruptcy or creditors, did not
prevent the chose in action from being a .part of respondent's estate in bankruptcy.
Under First Nat'l Bank v. Lasatar, 196 U. S. 115, respondent cannot, by withholding knowledge of the existence of this chose in action from the bankruptcy court and
his creditors, and thus preventing a trustee from being
appointed, now assert title to the concealed asset either
for himself or for the benefit of a favored creditor. He
cannot be permitted to profit by his own fraud, and to
permit him to do so would be a fraud on the bankruptcy
court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The filing of a petition in bankruptcy is a caveat and
has the effect of an injunction and attachment on all
property of respondent. From that moment, all his property is in custodia legis, in the exclusive jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy court. Pending the appointment of a trustee,
the law holds the property to abide the decision of the
court as effectively as if an attachment had issued. This
being true, respondent cannot be permitted to exercised
ownership and possession over the assets of the estate for
the benefit of himself or a favored creditor. That he
might be permitted in the interim to maintain a suit for
the protection of the estate and all his creditors is an
entirely different question.
The title of the trustee relates back to the date of the
filing of the petition; the estate can be re-opened at any
time to administer concealed assets; the only express provision in the Bankruptcy Act for the re-vesting of title
in a bankrupt is by the confirmation of a composition.
Litigants are not permitted to obtain the judgments
and orders of courts upon certain representations and
then, when it is to their convenience or profit, repudiate
such representations and obtain the judgments and orders
of another court on a directly opposite state of facts concerning the same matter.
Messrs. Jed C. Adams and W. B. Harrell submitted for
the respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought by Smith in the district court for
Dallas County, Texas, to recover brokerage commissions
claimed to be due him from Danciger and the Emerich
Oil Co. He assigned part of this claim to his attorneys;
and later assigned the remainder to two of his creditors
as security for antecedent debts, agreeing to prosecute
the suit in his name and account to them for the proceeds.

DANCIGER,
542

ETC.

OIL CO. v. SMITH.

Opinion of the Court.

More than four months thereafter he filed a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy. He did not mention this claim
in the schedules, and stated that he had no assets and
that none of his property had been assigned for the benefit
of creditors. He was thereupon adjudicated a bankrupt.
No trustee was appointed for his estate; and he was
granted a discharge.
At the trial of the suit the defendants, in addition to
their defenses on the merits, relied upon the defense, appropriately pleaded, that by reason of the proceeding in
bankruptcy Smith had ceased to be the owner of the
cause of action and was not entitled to prosecute the
suit. This contention was overruled, and Smith recovered judgment. This was affirmed by the Court of
Civil Appeals, 286 S. W. 633; and an application to the
Supreme Court for a writ of error was denied, 116 Tex.
269.
The petitioners contend that by permitting Smith to
continue the prosecution of the suit after his adjudication in bankruptcy they were deprived of a right, privilege
and immunity under the Bankruptcy Act.'
The Act provides, with certain exceptions not here
material, that a trustee of the estate of a bankrupt, upon
his appointment and qualification, shall be vested by
operation of law with the title of the bankrupt, as of
the date he was adjudged a bankrupt, to all non-exempt
property, including rights of action, § 70; and that the
trustee may, with the approval of the court, be permitted to prosecute any suit commenced by the bankrupt prior to the adjudication, § llc.
It is clear that under these provisions an adjudication
in bankruptcy, until followed by the appointment of a
trustee, does not divest the bankrupt's title to a cause of
action against a third person or prevent him from instituting or maintaining suit thereon. Thus, he may insti130 Stat 544, c. 541; U. S. C., Tit. 11.
318°-28---35

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

tute and maintain such a suit before the election of a trustee. Johnsonv. Collier,222 U.S. 538, 539; Christapherson
v. Harrington,118 Minn. 42, 45. Or, if no trustee is appointed. Rand v. Iowa Cent. Ry., 186 N. Y. 58, 60;
Griffn v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 119 Ga. 664, 665, in which
the opinion was delivered by Judge Lamar, later a member of this Court. And see Fullerv. New York Fire Ins.
Co., 184 Mass. 12, 16; Gordon v. Mechanics' & Trader's
Ins. Co., 120 La. 442, 443; and Schoenthaler v. Rosskam,
107 Ill. App. 427, 436. In Johnson v. Collier, supra, this
Court said: "While for many purposes the filing of the
petition operates in the nature of an attachment upon
choses in action and other property of the bankrupt, yet
his title is not thereby divested. He is still the owner,
though holding in trust until the appointment and
qualification of the trustee, who thereupon becomes
'vested by operation of law with the title of the bankrupt' as of the date of adjudication. . . . Until
such election the bankrupt has title-defeasible, but sufficient to authorize the institution and maintenance of a
suit on any cause of action otherwise possessed by
him. . . . During that period it may frequently be
important that action should be . . . taken to recover what would be lost if it were necessary to wait until
the trustee was elected. The institution of such suit
will result in no harm to the estate. For if the trustee
prefers to begin a new action in the same or another court
in his own name, the one previously brought can be
abated. If, however, he is of opinion that it would be to
the benefit of the creditors, he may intervene in the suit
commenced by the bankrupt. . . . If the trustee
will not sue and the bankrupt cannot sue, it might result
in the bankrupt's debtor being discharged of an actual
liability. The statute indicates no such purpose, and if
money or property is finally recovered, it will be for the
benefit of the estate. Nor is there any merit in the

NEW BRUNSWICK v. UNITED STATES.
542

547

Syllabus.

suggestion that this might involve a liability to pay both
the bankrupt and the trustee."
It follows that Smith's title to the right of action was
not divested by the proceeding in bankruptcy, no trustee
having been appointed to whom it could pass; and that
the Bankruptcy Act did not prevent him from subsequently prosecuting the suit to judgment.
The doctrine of First National Bank v. Lasater, 196 U.
S. 115, 119, on which the petitioners rely-that a bankrupt who omits to schedule and withholds all knowledge
of a valuable claim, cannot, after obtaining a discharge
from his debts, assert title to such claim and maintain a
suit thereon in his own right-has no application here;
for in that case a trustee had been appointed to whom
the right of action had passed.
No other Federal question is presented by the record.
If, as urged by the petitioners, the assignments made by
Smith were void as against his other creditors-who were
not before the court-any question that may arise as to
whether he holds the judgment for the benefit of his
assignees or of his general creditors, may be determined
in appropriate proceedings taken for that purpose. See
Griffin v. Mutual Life Insurance Co., supra, 655. In any
event the petitioners were not prejudiced.
Judgment affirmed.
CITY OF NEW BRUNSWICK ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 260. Argued March 2, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Land acquired by the United States Housing Corporation under
the Act of 1918 and by the Act of 1919 directed to be sold with
reservation of a first lien for unpaid purchase money, was not

