518

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

nothing to indicate that any such determinations are to
be made. Congress intended that prohibition officers
should not intentionally fail to report violations and
that the law should be enforced against all offenders.
The general clause covers all violations except the relatively few specifically dealt with. And it reasonably may
be held to apply to violations of official duties and to safeguard against connivance between officers and offenders.
He also argues that the imposition of heavier penalties
for second and subsequent offenses shows that the clause
was not intended to apply to offending officers because,
as it was said, they would not be in office after conviction.
But that suggestion has little if any weight when it is
remembered that the clause is aimed at so many violations and non-office-holding offenders. There is no rule
requiring every part of the provision to apply to all
classes covered by it. Cf. United States v. Union Supply
Company, 215 U. S. 50, 55. Moreover, it is not impossible that an enforcement officer may be in office subsequent to a conviction for such an offense.
The construction contended for by defendant unduly
restrains the language of the clause in question, is inconsistent with the context and contrary to the purposes of
the Act and the policy of Congress. It is without substantial support and cannot be sustained. Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent.
BLACK AND WHITE TAXICAB AND TRANSFER
COMPANY v. BROWN AND YELLOW TAXICAB
AND TRANSFER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 174. Argued January 13, 16, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
A Kentucky railroad corporation made a contract with the plaintiff,
a Tennessee corporation carrying on a transfer business at a city

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

519

Syllabus.

in Kentucky, whereby it granted to plaintiff the exclusive privilege
of going upon its trains, into its depot and on its surrounding
premises to solicit transportation of baggage and passengers, and
assigned a plot of ground belonging to it for the use of plaintiff's
taxicabs while awaiting the arrival of trains, the plaintiff on its
part agreeing to render certain services and to make monthly payments. The term of the contract was for one year, to continue
for consecutive yearly periods until terminated by either party on
thirty days' notice. Plaintiff was the successor of a Kentucky
transfer corporation of the same name, which had had a like contract with the railroad company, and which was dissolved after
its shareholders had incorporated the plaintiff and caused the
property and business to be transferred to it. The purpose of
the change of corporations and contracts, coiperated in by the
railroad company, was to create a diversity of citizenship. In a
suit brought by the plaintiff in the federal court in Kentucky, on
the basis of diverse citizenship, to restrain another transfer corporation, created in Kentucky, from soliciting business and parking vehicles on the railroad premises in violation of plaintiff's
exclusive contract, and to restrain the railroad company from
permitting such violations, Held:
1. That the suit was not subject to dismissal under Jud. Code
§ 37, since the controversy was real and substantial, the plaintiff was
the real party in interest, and the requisite diversity of citizenship
existed. The co~peration between the plaintiff and the railroad company to have the rights of the parties determined by a federal court
was not improper or collusive within the meaning of § 37. P. 524.
2. The contract did not exceed the railroad company's powers
under its Kentucky charter. P. 525.
3. The contract is consistent with the provision of the Kentucky
Constitution, § 214, forbidding any railroad company to make any
exclusive or preferential arrangement for the conduct of any
business as a common carrier. P. 526.
4. In the absence of any governing provision of local statutes or
constitution, the question whether such a contract is against public policy, is one-of general law. P. 526.
5. Under the common law, as construed and applied by this
Court, by state courts generally, and by English courts, such contracts are valid. Delaware etc. R. R. Co. v. Morristown, 276
U. S. 182. P. 527.
6. Where the validity of a contract (in this case made in a
State which has adopted the common law), involves no question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

276 U. S.

land title, or of local statute or constitution, or of fixed local
usage, but depends upon a question of general law, federal courts,
while inclining to follow courts of the State in which the controversy arises, are not bound by Rev. Stats., § 721, to do so but
are free to exercise their own, independent judgment. P. 529.
15 F. (2d) 509, affirmed.

CERTIoRAI, 273 U. S. 690, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of permanent
injunction against the above-named petitioner and the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, restraining
violation of a contract between the railroad company and
the respondent. The railroad company did not appeal.
Mr. N. P. Sims, with whom Messrs. John L. Stout and
Guy H. Herdmanwere on the brief, for petitioner.
Dismissal of the action should have been ordered under
§ 37 of the Judicial Code. Lehigh Mining Co. v. Kelly,
160 U. S. 327; Miller & Lux v. Canal Co., 211 U. S. 293;
Foster's Fed. Prac., Vol. 1, p. 134; Morris v. Gilman, 129
U. S. 315.
The law as decided by the Kentucky Court of Appeals
should be followed as controlling on the validity of the
contract. HartfordFire Ins. Co. v. Chicago, etc., Ry. Co.,
175 U. S. 91; Equitable Life Ins. Co. v. Brown, 213 U. S.
29; Palmer v. Ohio, 248 U. S. 32; Hairstonv. Danville Ry.
Co., 208 U. S. 598.
If respondent's right in the contract be considered property, then the decision of the state court establishing a
rule in regard to it is to be followed by the federal courts.
L. R. A., 1916A, 1011; 40 L. R. A. (N. S.), 380, 412 to
433; Guffey v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101; Hinde v. Vatter, 5
Pet. 398; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Kuhn v. Fairmont
Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349.
Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., 199 U. S. 278, distinguished.

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

521

Argument for Respondent.

The contract is in excess of the railroad company's
charter power. McConnell v. Pedigo, etc., 92 Ky. 465.
The contract was contrary to § 214, Kentucky Constitution, and therefore unenforceable. L. & N. R. R. Co. v.
Central Stockyards Co., 133 Ky. 148.
Mr. M. M. Logan for respondent.
Respondent, acting in good faith, was within its rights
in obtaining its charter from Tennessee, although it
may have done so for the purpose of conferring on the
federal courts jurisdiction to determine controversies
which might arise between it and the citizens of Kentucky. Lehigh Mining Co. v. Kelly, 160 U. S. 327,
distinguished.
Federal courts are not compelled to follow the decisions
of the local state courts on questions of general law.
Salem Trust Co. v. Manufacturers'Finance Co., 264 U. S.
182.
Donovan v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 199 U. S. 278, decides all points raised in this suit against the contention
of petitioner, except one question of fact, which has been
decided against it both by the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The Railroad Company has implied authority to do all
acts necessary for the full and complete utilization of its
special powers, which are not expressly or impliedly excluded by the terms of the grant. Aside from the transportation of freight and passengers, it may use its individual property as it pleases so as to make money for
itself. Louisville Property Co. v. Commonwealth, 146
Ky. 847.
It is by reason of the implied authority which a railroad
company has to use its private property as it pleases when
the use does not relate to its transportation business that
it may rent part of its depot and building for news stands,

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

restaurants, barber shops, and other like conveniences. If
it may do this, it may lease to a taxicab company its
grounds so that the employees of such company may come
thereon and solicit business. It has the authority to keep
off of its premises any person not having any business
with it who desires to use its property for his personal
gain.
The Railroad Company has implied authority under its
charter to enter into contracts such as the one in controversy, Louisville Property Co. v. Commonwealth,
8upra.

The contract is not violative of § 214, Kentucky
Constitution.
The contract was not made by the Railroad Company
for the conduct of its business as a common carrier.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent sued petitioner and the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company in the United States court
for the western district of Kentucky to prevent interference with the carrying out of a contract between the
railroad company and the respondent. The district court
entered a decree in favor of respondent. The railroad
company declining to join, petitioner alone appealed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, 15 F. (2d) 509,
and this Court granted a writ of certiorari. 273 U. S. 690.
Respondent is a Tennessee corporation carrying on a
transfer business at Bowling Green, Kentucky. The petitioner is a Kentucky corporation in competition with
respondent. The railroad company-is a Kentucky corporation. In 1925, it made a contract with respondent
whereby it granted the exclusive privilege of going upon
its trains, into its depot, and on the surrounding premises
to solicit transportation of baggage and passengers. And

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

523

Opinion of the Court.

it assigned a plot of ground belonging to it for the use of
respondent's taxicabs while awaiting the arrival of trains.
In consideration of the privileges granted, respondent
agreed to render certain service and to make monthly
payments to the railroad company. The term of the
contract was fixed at one year to continue for consecutive
yearly periods until terminated by either party on thirty
days' notice.
Jurisdiction of the district court was invoked on the
ground that the controversy was one between citizens of
different States. The complaint alleges that the railroad
company failed to carry out the contract in that it allowed
others to enter upon its property to solicit transportation
of baggage and passengers and to park on its property
vehicles used for that purpose. It alleges that petitioner
entered, solicited business and parked its vehicles in the
places assigned to respondent, and also on an adjoining
street so as to obstruct the operation of respondent's taxicabs. Petitioner's answer alleges that respondent was incorporated in Tennessee for the fraudulent purpose of
giving the district court jurisdiction and to evade the laws
of Kentucky. It asserts that the contract is contrary to
the public policy and laws of Kentucky as declared by its
highest court, and that it is monopolistic, in excess of the
railroad company's charter power and violates § 214 of the
constitution of the State.
The record shows that, in September, 1925, respondent
was organized in Tennessee by the shareholders of a Kentucky corporation of the same name then carrying on a
transfer business at Bowling Green and having a contract
with the railroad company like the one here involved;
that the business and property of the Kentucky corporation were transferred to respondent, and the former was
dissolved. Respondent's incorporators and railroad representatives, preferring to have this controversy deter-

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

mined in the courts of the United States, arranged to
have
respondent
organized in
Tennesseeand
to succeed
the
business
of the Kentucky
corporation
to enterto into
this contract in order to create a diversity of citizenship.
The district court found there was no fraud upon its jurisdiction, held the contract valid and found, substantially
as alleged in the complaint, that petitioner violated respondent's rights under it. The decree enjoins petitioner
from continuing such interference.
1. Section 37 of the Judicial Code requires any suit
commenced in a district court to be dismissed, if it shall
appear that the suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within its jurisdiction or that the parties have been improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants,
for the purpose of creating a case cognizable in such court.
The requisite diversity of citizenship exists. And the
controversy is real and substantial. The privilege granted
is valuable. Petitioner treats the contract as invalid and
claims to be entitled, without the consent of the railroad
company to use railroad property to park its vehicles and
solicit business. The railroad company has failed to protect the rights it granted. The motives which induced
the creation of respondent to become successor to its Kentucky grantor and take a transfer of its property have no
influence on the validity of the transactions which are
the subject of the suit. The succession and transfer were
actual, not feigned or merely colorable. In these circumstances, courts will not inquire into motives when deciding concerning their jurisdiction. M'Donald v. Smalley
et al., 1 Pet. 620, 624. It is enough that respondent is the
real party in interest. Smith et al. vs. Kernochen, 7 How.
198, 216. The incorporation of respondent or its title to
the business and contract in question is not impeached.

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

525

Opinion of the Court.

Co6peration between it and the railroad company to have
the rights of the parties determined by a federal court was
not improper or collusive within the meaning of § 37.
Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90, 110.
Harkin v. Brundage, 276 U. S. 36. South Dakota v.
North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286, 311. It requires no discussion to distinguish Lehigh Mining and Mfg. Co. v.
Kelly, 160 U. S. 327, and Miller & Lux v. East Side Canal
Co., 211 U. S. 293. The district court had jurisdiction.
2. Petitioner maintains that the contract is not enforceable because in excess of the railroad company's power
under its charter, and cites the decision of the Kentucky
Court of Appeals in McConnell v. Pedigo, 92 Ky. 465.
That case involved a grant by the railroad company of
the exclusive privilege of standing hacks at the platform
of its depot in Glasgow. The court did not refer to any
of the terms of the charter. But petitioner states that
the railroad company was incorporated by an Act of the
Legislature of Kentucky, approved March 4, 1850, and
purports to quote the section relating to corporate
powers. "The said Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company . . . may make all such regulations, rules
and by-laws as are necessary for the government of the
corporation, or for effecting the object for which it is
created: Provided, that such regulations, rules and bylaws shall not be repugnant to the laws and constitution
of said State or the United States . . . ". The opinion does not hold or suggest that the contract was contrary to any provision of the constitution or statutes of
Kentucky or in violation of federal law. The court's conclusion rests on its determination of a question of general
law and not upon a construction of the charter. Moreover that court has given this charter a much broader construction than that insisted on by petitioner. In Louis-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

ville Property Co. v. Commonwealth, 146 Ky. 827, it held
that, "In the maintenance of a place for hotel or restaurant accommodations, and for pleasure, recreation and
rest, such as is afforded by a park, neither the letter nor
the spirit of the Constitution or statute is violated, but
the railroad company acts in the exercise of certain implied powers which it is not prohibited to exercise." So
far as concerns the railroad company's charter authority
to make it, the contract is clearly within the principle of
that decision.
3. Section 214 of the Kentucky constitution provides
that no railway company shall make any exclusive or
preferential arrangement for the handling of freight "or
for the conduct of any business as a common carrier."
Petitioner invokes the last clause. The railroad company
is under no obligation to transport passengers or baggage
from its station. McConnell v. Pedigo, supra, 468. It
is not bound to permit those engaged in such transportation to use its property, to solicit patronage, park their
vehicles or otherwise to carry on their business. The
contract does not relate to the railroad company's business
as a common carrier. D. L. & W. R. R. Co. v. Morristown, 276 U. S. 182.
4. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky held such contracts invalid in McConnell v. Pedigo, supra, and Palmer
Transfer Co. v. Anderson, 131 Ky. 217. Invalidity of a
similar contract was assumed arguendo in Commonwealth
v. Louisville Transfer Co., 181 Ky. 305. As reasons for
its conclusion that court suggests that the grant of such
privileges prevents competition, makes such discrimination as is unreasonable and detrimental to the public and
constitutes such a preference over other transfer men as to
give grantee a practical monopoly of the business. It has
not held them repugnant to any provision of the statutes
or constitution of the State. The question there decided

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

527

Opinion of the Court.

is one of general law. Donovan v. Pennsylvania Company, 199 U. S. 279, 300. This Court holds such contracts valid. Donovan case, supra, 297. Morristown
case, supra. And these decisions show that, without its
consent, the property of a railroad company may not be
used by taxicabmen or others to solicit or carry on their
business and that it is beyond the power of the State in
the public interest to require the railroad company without compensation to allow its property so to be used.
And state courts quite generally construe the common
law as this Court has applied it. Old Colony Railroad Co.
v. Tripp, 147 Mass. 35. Boston .& Albany Railroad v.
Brown, 177 Mass. 65. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
Scovill, 71 Conn. 136, 145. Griswold v. Webb, 16 R. I. 649,
651. New York, N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Bork, 23 R. I.
218, 222. Hedding v. Gallagher,72 N. H. 377. Brown v.
N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co., 75 Hun. 355, 359. Thompson's
Exp. & Storage Co. v. Whitemore, 88 N. J. Eq. 535. Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Old Dominion Baggage Co., 99
Va. 111. Rose v. Public Service Commission, 75 W. Va. 1,
5. State v. Depot Co., 71 0. S. 379. Railroad v. Kohler,
107 Kan. 673, 677. Railroad Co. v. Davidson, 33 Utah
370. Union Depot & Ry. Co. v. Meeking, 42 Colo. 89, 95.
Dingman v. Duluth, etc. R. Co., 164 Mich. 328. Lewis
v. Railway Co., 36 Tex. Civ. App. 48, 50. See Commonwealth v. Power, 7 Metc. 596, 600. Godbout v. Saint Paul
Union Depot Co., 79 Minn. 188, 200. Napman v. People,
19 Mich. 352, 355. Fluker v. Georgia Railroad & Banking Co., 81 Ga. 461, 463.
In harmony with the Kentucky decisions, the highest
courts of Indiana and Mississippi hold such contracts
invalid. Indianapolis Union R. Co. v. Dohn, 153 Ind. 10.
State v. Reed, 76 Miss. 211. The same conclusion is
reached in Cravens v. Rodgers, 101 Mo. 247. Montana
Union Ry. Co. v. Langlois, 9 Mont. 419. Hack & Bus Co.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

v. Sootsma, 84 Mich. 194. But in each of the last three
cases the conclusion rests, at least in part, upon a provision of state statute or constitution.
Arrangements similar in principle to that before us
are sustained in English courts. Perth General Station
Committee v. Ross, L. R. App. Cas. (1897) 479. In re
Beadell, 2 C. B. (N. S.) 509. Barker v. Midland Ry. Co.,
18 C. B. 45.
The cases cited show that the decisions of the Kentucky
Court of Appeals holding such arrangements invalid are
contrary to the common law as generally understood and
applied. And we are of opinion that petitioner here has
failed to show any valid ground for disregarding this contract and that its interference cannot be justified. Care
is to be observed lest the doctrine that a contract is void
as against public policy be unreasonably extended. Detriment to the public interest is not be presumed in the ab,
sence of showing that something improper is done or contemplated. Steele v. Drummond, 275 U. S. 199. And it
is to be remembered, as stated by Sir George Jessel, M. R.,
in Printing Company v. Sampson, L. R. 19 Eq. 462, 465,
that public policy requires that competent persons "shall
have the utmost liberty of contracting, and that their contracts, when entered into fairly and voluntarily shall be
held sacred, and shall be enforced by Courts of justice."
The station grounds belong to the railroad company and
it lawfully may put them into any use that does not interfere with its duties as a common carrier. The privilege
granted to respondent does not impair the railroad company's service to the public or infringe any right of other
taxicabmen to transport passengers to and from the
station. While it gives the respondent advantage in getting business, passengers are free to engage anyone who
may be ready to serve them. The carrying out of such
contracts generally makes for good order at railway sta-

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.

529

Opinion of the Court.

518

tions, prevents annoyance, serves convenience and promotes safety of passengers. D. L. & W. R. R. Co. v.
Morristown, supra. There is here no complaint by or on
behalf of passengers; no lack of service, unreasonable
exaction or inconvenience of the public is shown. It
would be unwarranted and arbitrary to assume that this
contract is contrary to public interest. The grant of privileges to respondent creates no duty on the part of the
railroad company to give like privileges to others, and
therefore there is no illegal discrimination. And, as the
State is without power to require any part of the depot
ground to be used as a public hack stand without providing just compensation therefor, then a fortiori such
property may not be handed over for the use of petitioner
without the consent of the owner.
5. The decree below should be affirmed unless federal
courts are bound by Kentucky decisions which are directly opposed to this Court's determination of the principles of common law properly to be applied in such cases.
Petitioner argues that the Kentucky decisions are persuasive and establish the invalidity of such contracts and
that the Circuit Court of Appeals, erred in refusing to
follow them. But, as we understand the brief, it does not
contend that, by reason of the rule of decision declared
by § 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (now R. S. § 721,
U. S. C. Tit. 28 § 725), this Court is required to adopt the
Kentucky decisions. But, granting that this point is before us, it cannot be sustained. The contract gives
respondent, subject to termination on short notice, license or privilege to solicit patronage and park its vehicles
on railroad property at train time. There is no question
concerning title to land. No provision of state statute
or constitution and no ancient or fixed local usage is involved. For the discovery of common law principles applicable in any case, investigation is not limited to the
318-28-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

decisions of the courts of the State in which the controversy arises. State and federal courts go to the same
sources for evidence of the existing applicable rule. The
effort of both is to ascertain that rule. Kentucky has
adopted the common law and her courts recognize that its
principles are not local but are included in the body of
law constituting the general jurisprudence prevailing
wherever the common law is recognized. Hunt v. Warnicke's Heirs, 3 Hardin 61. Lathrop v. Commercial Bank,
8 Dana 114, 121. Ray v. Sweeney, 14 Bush 1,9, et seq.
Aetna Insurance Co. v. Commonwealth, 106 Ky. 864, 876.
Nider v. Commonwealth, 140 Ky. 684, 686. And see 1
Kent's Commentaries (14th ed.) pp. 451, 602. As respects
the rule of decision to be followed by federal courts, distinction has always been made between statutes of
a State and the decisions of its courts on questions of
general law. The applicable rule sustained by many
decisions of this Court is that in determining questions of
general law, the federal courts, while inclining to follow
the decisions of the courts of the State in which the controversy arises, are free to exercise their own independent
judgment. That this case depends on such a question is
clearly shown by many decisions of this Court. Swift v.
Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 19, was an action on a bill of exchange.
Mr. Justice Story, writing for the Court, fully expounded
§ 34 of the Judiciary Act. Carpenter v. Insurance Company, 16 Pet. 495, 511, held that the construction of an
insurance policy involves questions of general law. Lane
v. Vick, 3 How. 464, involved the construction of a will.
It was said (p. 476): "This court do not follow the state
courts in their construction of a will or any other instrument, as they do in the construction of statutes." Foxcroft v. Mallett, 4 How. 353, 379, held that the decision
of a state court construing a deed is not conclusive on this
Court. Chicago City v. Robbins, 2 Bl. 418, 428, declined
to follow the determination of the state court as to what

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

531

Opinion of the Court.

constitutes negligence. Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497,
506, held that the determination of what constitutes a
dedication of land to public use is one of general law.
Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678, 689, held that the
determination of what is a public purpose to warrant
municipal taxation involves a question of general law.
Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 366, declined to follow the state rule as to liability of common
carriers for injury of passengers. Liverpool Steam Co. v.
Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 443, held a question concerning the validity of a contract for carriage of goods
is one of general law. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v.
Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 370, so held as to the responsibility
of a railroad company to its employees for personal injuries. Beutler v. Grand Trunk Railway, 224 U. S. 85,
88, decides who are fellow-servants as a question of
general law.*
The lower courts followed the well-established rule and
rightly held the contract valid. The facts shown warrant
the injunction granted.
Decree affirmed.
see Watson v. Tarpley, 18 How., 517; Mercer County v.
Hackett, 1 Wall. 83, 95; Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wall. 772, 784;
Boyce v. Tabb, 18 Wall. 546, 548; Railroad Co. v. Jones, 95 U. S.
*And

439; Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 226; Oates v. National
Bank, 100 U. S. 239, 246; Railroad Co. v. National Bank, 102 U. S.
14, 29; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 32, et seq.; Myrick v. Michigan CentralR. R. Co., 107 U. S. 102, 109; Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S.
529, 540; Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S. 439, 446; Enfield v. Jordan, 119
U. S. 680, 694; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 478; Lake Shore
Railway Co. v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101, 106; Gardner v. M1Iichigan
Central Railroad, 150 U. S. 349, 358; Oakes v. Mase, 165 U. S. 363;
Barber v. Pittsburgh, &c., Railway, 166 U. S. 83, 100; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 485-486; Presidio County v.
Noel-Young Co., 212 U. S. 58, 73; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Bourman, 212 U. S. 536, 541, and cases cited; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co.,
215 U. S. 349, 357, et seq.; Salem Co. v. Manufacturers' Co.. 264 U. S.
182, 191; B. & 0. R. R. v. Goodman, 275 U. S. 66, 70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
HOLMES,
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

and

STONE,

JJ., dissenting.

276 U. S.

HOLMES, dissenting.

This is a suit brought by the respondent, The Brown
and Yellow Taxicab and Transfer Company, as plaintiff,
to prevent the petitioner, The Black and White Taxicab
and Transfer Company, from interfering with the carrying out of a contract between the plaintiff and the
other defendant, The Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company. The plaintiff is a corporation of Tennessee.
It had a predecessor of the same name which was a corporation of Kentucky. Knowing that the Courts of Kentucky held contracts of the kind in question invalid and
that the Courts of the United States maintained them as
valid, a family that, owned the Kentucky corporation
procured the incorporation of the plaintiff and caused the
other to be dissolved after conveying all the corporate
property to the plaintiff. The new Tennessee corporation then proceeded to make with the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad Company the contract above mentioned, by which the Railroad Company gave to it exclusive privileges in the station grounds, and two months
later the Tennessee corporation brought this suit. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a decree of the District
Court, granted an injunction and upheld this contract.
It expressly recognized that the decisions of the Kentucky Courts held that in Kentucky a railroad company
could not grant such rights, but this being a 'question
of general law' it went its own way regardless of the
Courts of this State. 15 F. (2d) 509.
The Circuit Court of Appeals had so considerable a
tradition behind it in deciding as it did that if I did not
regard the case as exceptional I should not feel warranted
in presenting my own convictions again after having stated
them in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Company, 215 U. S. 349.
But the question is important and in my opinion the prevailing doctrine has been accepted upon a subtle fallacy

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

STONE,

533

JJ., dissenting.

that never has been analyzed. If I am right the fallacy
has resulted in an unconstitutional assumption of powers
by the Courts of the United States which no lapse of
time or respectable array of opinion should make us
hesitate to correct. Therefore I think it proper to state
what I think the fallacy is.-The often repeated proposition of this and the lower Courts is that the parties are
entitled to an independent judgment on matters of general law. By that phrase is meant matters that are not
governed by any law of the United States or by any
statute of the State-matters that in States other than
Louisiana are governed in most respects by what is called
the common law. It is through this phrase that what I
think the fallacy comes in.
Books written about any branch of the common law
treat it as a unit, cite cases from this Court, from the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, from the State Courts, from
England and the Colonies of England indiscriminately,
and criticise them as right or wrong according to the
writer's notions of a single theory. It is very hard to
resist the impression that there is one august corpus, to
understand which clearly is the only task of any Court
concerned. If there were such a transcendental body of
law outside of any particular State but obligatory within
it unless and until changed by statute, the Courts of
the United States might be right in using their independent judgment as to what it was. But there is no
such body of law. The fallacy and illusion that I think
exist consist in supposing that there is this outside thing
to be found. Law is a word used with different meanings, but law in the sense in -which courts speak of it
today does not exist without some definite authority
behind it. The common law so far as it is enforced in
a State, whether called common law or not, is not the
common law generally but the law of that State existing
by the authority of that State without regard to what it

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
HOLMES, BRANDEIS, and STONE, JJ., dissenting.

276 U. S.

may have been in England or anywhere else. It may be
adopted by statute in place of another system previously
in force. Boquillas Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S. 339,
345. But a general adoption of it does not prevent the
State Courts from refusing to follow the English decisions
upon a matter where the local conditions are different.
Wear v. Kansas, 245 U. S. 154, 156, 157. It may be
changed by statute, Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
Baugh, 149 U. S. 368, 378, as is done every day. It may
be departed from deliberately by judicial decisions, as
with regard to water rights, in States where the common
law generally prevails. Louisiana is a living proof that
it need not be adopted at all. (I do not know whether
under the prevailing doctrine we should regard ourselves
as authorities upon the general law of Louisiana superior
to those trained in the system.) Whether and how far
and in what sense a rule shall be adopted whether called
common law or Kentucky law is for the State alone to
decide.
If within the limits of the Constitution a State should
declare one of the disputed rules of general law by statute there would be no doubt of the duty of all Courts to
bow, whatever their private opinions might be. Mason
v. United States, 260 U. S. 545, 555. Gulf Refining Co. v.
United States, 269 U. S. 125, 137. I see no reason why
it should have less effect when it speaks by its other voice.
See Benedict v. Ratner, 268 U. S. 353, Sim v. Edenborn,
242 U. S. 131. If a state constitution should declare that
on all matters of general law the decisions of the highest
Court should establish the law until modified by statute
or by a later decision of tle same Court, I do not perceive
how it would be possible for a Court of the United States
to refuse to follow what the State Court decided in that
domain. But when the constitution of a State establishes
a Supreme Court it by implication does make that declaration as clearly as if it had said it in express words, so

B. & W. TAXI. CO. v. B. & Y. TAXI. CO.
518

HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

STONE,

535

JJ., dissenting.

far as it is not interfered with by the superior power of
the United States. The Supreme Court of a State does
something more than make a scientific inquiry into a fact
outside of and independent of it. It says, with an authority that no one denies, except when a citizen of another
State is able to 'invoke an exceptional jurisdiction, that
thus the law is and shall be. Whether it be said to make
or to declare the law, it deals with the law of the State
with equal authority however its function may be
described.
Mr. Justice Story in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1, evidently under the tacit domination of the fallacy to which
I have referred, devotes some energy to showing that § 34
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, refers only to statutes
when it provides that except as excepted the laws of the
several States shall be regarded as rules of decision in
trials at common law in Courts of the United States. An
examination of the original document by a most competent hand has shown that Mr. Justice Story probably was
wrong if anyone is interested to inquire what the framers
of the instrument meant. 37 Harvard Law Review, 49,
at pp. 81-88. But this question is deeper than that; it is
a question of the authority..by which certain particular
acts, here the grant of exclusive privileges in a railroad
station, are governed. In my opinion the authority and
only authority is the State, and if that be so, the voice
adopted by the State as its own should utter the last
word. I should leave Swift v. Tyson undisturbed, as I
indicated in Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., but I would not
allow it to spread the assumed dominion into new fields.
In view of what I have said it is not necessary for me
to give subordinate and narrower reasons for my opinion
that the decision below should be reversed. But there
are adequate reasons short of what I think should be
recognized. This is a question concerning the lawful use
of land in Kentucky by a corporation chartered by Ken-

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

tucky. The policy of Kentucky with regard to it has
been settled in Kentucky for more than thirty-five years.
McConnell v. Pedigo, 92 Ky. 465. (1892.) Even under
the rule that I combat, it has been recognized that a settled line of state decisions was conclusive to establish a
rule of property or the public policy of the State. Hartford Fire Insurance Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91, 100. I should have supposed that
what arrangements could or could not be made for the use
of a piece of land was a purely local question, on which,
if on anything, the State should have its own way and the
State Courts should be taken to declare what the State
wills. See especially Smith Middlings Purifier Co. v.
McGroarty, 136 U. S. 237, 241.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur

in this opinion.
MOORE v. CITY OF NAMPA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 384. Argued March 9,4928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
Bonds issued by a city to complete a local improvement, which did
not pledge the city's general credit but were expressly payable
only out of certain special assessments on land of the improvement
district and were therefore nonnegotiable, were bought by the
plaintiff from a prior purchaser, in reliance on advice of his attorneys, on recitals in the bonds giving assurance of their validity and
soundness and on a certificate issued by the mayor, clerk, and
treasurer of the city, representing that no legislation was pending
in respect of the creation of the improvement district, the construction of the improvement, or the issue of bonds,--which was
false. In making the purchase, the attorneys bad before them a
transcript of the proceedings showing that the assessments were in
excess of the original estimate of cost--a fact which rendered the
assessments void under the state law, as was subsequently ad-

