WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 142.

Argued January 5, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. A state statute which provides that in actions by residents of the
State against non-residents for personal injuries resulting from the
operation by the latter of their motor vehicles on the state highways, service of summons may be made on the Secretary of State,
as their agent, and which contains no further provision making it
reasonably probable that notice of such service will be communicated to the defendants, is lacking in due process of law. Pub. Ls.
N. J., 1924, c. 232, § 1. P. 18.
2. Such actions cannot be sustained by serving notice outside of the
State not required by the statute. P. 24.
103 N. J. L. 130, reversed.

to a judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals of the State of New Jersey, which affirmed a judgment recovered by Pizzutti in an action against Wuchter
for personal injuries and damages to property, caused by
Wuchter's operation of an automobile.
ERROR

Mr. James D. Carpenter,Jr., for plaintiff in error.
This case is not controlled by Hess v. Pawloski, 274
U. S. 352; the New Jersey statute does not require process to be forwarded to the non-resident and postponing
of judgment awaiting an appearance.
The fact that notice of plaintiff's intention to assess
damages on writ of inquiry before a sheriff's jury was
served on the defendant personally in Pennsylvania, could
not cure the failure to serve the summons and complaint
upon him personally within the territorial limits of New
Jersey. Judgment interlocutory was entered by default
against the defendant before any notice was served upon
him, other than the statutory service upon the Secretary
of State. The statute is therefore void under the Fourteenth Amendment. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714;

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

276 U. S.

Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; McDonald v.
Mabee, 243 U. S. 90; Flexner v. Farson, 249 U. S. 289;
Penna. Ins. Co. v. Mining Co., 243 U. S. 93.
The statute is repugnant to Article IV, § 2 of the Constitution, in that none but residents may bring suits
under it, and none but non-residents may be sued.
Chambers v. B. & 0. R. R., 207 U. S. 142; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168;
Sou. Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Herndonv. Chicago,
R. I. & P. R. Co., 218 U. S. 135; Roach v. Atchison, T. &
S. F. R. Co., 218 U. S. 159.
Mr. Jacob R. Mantel for defendant in error.
This case is controlled by the decision in Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S. 352. State v. Belden, 193 Wis. 145; Kane
v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Pawloski v. Hess, 250 Mass.
22; Packardv. Banton, 264 U. S. 140; Missouri v. North,
271 U. S. 40.
Plaintiff in error was informed of the pending action,
and opportunities were afforded him to step in and defend, (1) when the summons and complaint were first
served upon him by the Secretary of State, by mail; (2)
when notice that a writ of inquiry of damages would be
executed was personally served upon him at his residence
in Allentown, Pennsylvania; and (3) when notice of motion for final judgment was personally served upon him at
his residence in Allentown. See Chicago v. Sturgess, 222
U. S. 313.
In New Jersey, in actions in tort, such as this, it is required that, before the plaintiff executes his writ of inquiry, a notice be served upon the defendant; and also,
as in this case, the damages being assessed by writ of
inquiry, no judgment thereon can be entered without
notice thereof being given to the defendant. 3 N. J.
Comp. Stats. §§ 138-139.
The New Jersey statute is not repugnant to Article IV,
§ 2 of the Constitution. Nowhere is there a prohibition

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
13

Opinion of the Court.

against a non-resident taking advantage of the statute.
The law does not differentiate between the citizens of
New Jersey and the citizens of any other State. All are
equally compelled to obey regulations concerning motor
travel, and all are equally liable in its courts.
The statute does not abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States. Western Turf Ass'n
v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 360. The privilege of using the
highways of a State by motor vehicles is not a privilege
common to all United States citizens by virtue of such
citizenship. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; New
Orleans Gas Co. v. La. Gas Co., 115 U. S. 650; Blake v.
McClung, 172 U. S. 239; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581;
Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78; Maxwell v. Bugbee,
250 U. S. 525.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the validity, under the Fourteenth
Amendment, of a statute of New Jersey providing for
service of process on non-residents of the State in suits for
injury by the negligent operation of automobiles on its
highways.
Pizzutti was driving a team of horses attached to a
wagon on a public highway in New Jersey. Wuchter was
a resident of Pennsylvania who was following the wagon
with his automobile. Wuchter drove his car so as to
crash into the rear of the wagon, damaging it, and injuring Pizzutti and his horses. Pizzutti instituted a suit
against Wuchter in the Supreme Court of New Jersey.
Wuchter was served with process under the provisions of
the Act known as Chapter 232 of the Laws of 1924, (P. L.
1924, p. 517) by leaving process with the Secretary of
State. Wuchter interposed no defense. A judgment interlocutory was taken against him and a.writ of inquiry
of damages was issued. Although the statute did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

require it, notice of its proposed execution was actually
served personally on Wuchter in Pennsylvania. Wuchter
did not appear. A final judgment was entered. Wuchter
then appealed to the court below, contending that the
,Act under which the process was served upon him was
unconstitutional, because it deprived him of his property
without due process of law, in contravention of section 1
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
Section 1 of the Act complained of, under which the
process was served in this case, was as follows:
"From and after the passage of this act any chauffeur,
operator or owner of any motor vehicle, not licensed under
the laws of the State of New Jersey, providing for the registration and licensing of motor vehicles, who shall accept
the privilege extended to nonresident chlauffeu rs, operators and owners by law of driving such a motor vehicle
,or of having the same driven or operated in the State of
'New Jersey, without a New Jersey registration or license,
shall, by such acceptance and the operation of such automobile within the State of New Jersey, make and, copstitute the Secretary of State of the State of New Jersey,
:his, her or their agent for the acceptance of process in any
'civil suit or proceeding by any resident of the State of
New Jersey against such chauffeur, operator or, the owner
of such motor vehicle, arising out of or by reason of any
accident or collision occurring within the State in which a
motor vehicle operated by such chauffeur, or operator, or
such motor vehicle is involved."
This is the first section of an Act entitled "An Act providing for the service of process in civil suits upon nonoresident chauffeurs, operators, or nonresident owners
whose motor vehicles are operated within the State of
New Jersey, without being licensed under the provisions
of the Laws of the State of New Jersey, providing for
the registration and licensing of drivers and operators and

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
Opinion of the Court.

13

of motor vehicles, requiring the execution by them bf a
power of attorney to the Secretary of State of the State
of New Jersey to accept civil process for them under certain conditions." The second section provides that where
the car is unlicensed and there is an 'acident, the magistrate before whom the non-resident owner of such motor
vehicle or its operator shall be brought shall require the
non-resident as a condition to his release on bail or otherwise to execute a written power of attorney to the Secretary of State appointing such officer his lawful attorney for
the acceptance of service in any civil suit instituted or to be
instituted by any resident of the State of New Jersey
against the non-resident for or on account of any claim
arising out of the collision or accident.
Section 3 provides that it shall be lawful to serve civil
process upon a non-resident owner in such case upon any
chauffeur or operator of the vehicle while the vehicle is
being operated within the state by such chauffeur or operator, and that such service may be lawfully served upon
any non-resident owner by serving the process upon any
person over the age of fourteen years who has custody of
the automobile, whether held by him as security or driven,
provided, however, that a copy of such civil process also
shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon such automobile. The only provision for other than service on the
persons in charge of the car is by leaving the summons
with the Secretary of State without more, under § 1 of
the Act already quoted.
By the general state motor law, as amended by Chapter 211, Laws of 1924, provision is made for the registration
and license of automobiles owned by non-residents who
use the highways of the state, P. L. 1924, § 9, par. 4,
p. 451. They are required to agree that original process
against the owner made by leaving it in the office of
the Secretary of State shall have the same effect as if
served on the owner within the state, and the statute
818o-28---2

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

proVides that the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles shall
notify the owner of such motor car by letter directed to
him at the post office address stated in his application
for registration and license already filed with the
Commissioner.
The Act first above referred to, No. 232, under which
process in this case was served, applies to the owners of
automobiles who are not licensed but who come into the
state and use the highways of the state without registration and is not to be confused with the license act or its
provisions.
It is settled by our decisions that a state's power to
regulate the use of its highways extends to their use by
non-residents as well as by residents. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U.S. 610, 622. We have further held that, in advance of the operation of a motor vehicle on its highways
by a non-resident, a state may require him to take out a
license and to appoint one of its officials as his agent, on
whom process may be served in suits growing out of accidents in such operation. This was under the license act
of New Jersey, last above referred to, and not No. 232.
Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167. We have also
recognized it to be a valid exercise of power by a state,
because of its right to regulate the use of its highways
by non-residents, to declare, without exacting a license,
that the use of the highway by the non-resident may by
statute be treated as the equivalent of the appointment
by him of a state official as agent on whom process in
such a case may be served. Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S.
352.
The question made in the present case is whether a
statute, making the Secretary of State the person to
receive the process, must, in order to be valid, contain a
provision making it reasonably probable that notice of
the service on the Secretary will be communicated to
the non-resident defendant who is sued. Section 232 of
the Laws of 1924 makes no such requirement and we

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
13

Opinion of the Court.

have not been shown any provision in any applicable
law of the State of New Jersey requiring such communication. We think that a law with the effect of this one
should make a reasonable provision for such probable
communication. We quite agree, and, indeed, have so
held in the Pawloski case, that the act of a non-resident
in using the highways of another state may properly be
declared to be an agreement to accept service of summons
in a suit growing out of the use of the highway by the
owner of the automobile, but the enforced acceptance of
the service of process on a state officer by the defendant
would not be fair or due process unless such officer or
the plaintiff is required to mail the notice to the defendant, or to advise him, by some written communication,
so as to make it reasonably probable that he will receive
actual notice. Otherwise, where the service of summons
is limited to a service on the Secretary of State or some
officer of the state, without more, it will be entirely possible for a person injured to sue any non-resident he
chooses, and through service upon the state official obtain
a default judgment against a non-resident who has never
been in the state, who had nothing to do with the accident, or whose automobile having been in the state has
never injured anybody. A provision of law for service
that leaves open such a clear opportunity for the commission of fraud (Heinemannv. Pier,110 Wis. 185) or injustice
is not a reasonable provision, and in the case supposed
would certainly be depriving a defendant of his property
without due process of law. The Massachusetts statute
considered in Hess v. Pawloski, really made necessary
actual personal service to be evidenced by the written
admission of the defendant. In Kane v. New Jersey, the
service provided for by statute was by mail to the necessarily known registered address of the licensed defendant.
In determining the reasonableness of pr6vision for service we should consider the situation of both parties. The
person injured must find out to whom the offending auto-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

mobile belongs. This may be a difficult task. It is easy
when the owner of the automobile is present after the
accident. That is provided for in the second section of
this act by apprehending him or his operator. But the
vehicle may be operated by someone who having committed the injury successfully escapes capture or identification. In such a case, the person injured must be left
without a remedy by suit at law, as everyone must be who
does not know or can not discover the person who injured
him. The burden is necessarily on him to investigate and
learn. In finding out who it was, and whether the person is of such financial responsibility as to warrant a suit,
he almost necessarily will secure knowledge of his post
office address or his place of residence, and thereby be
enabled to point out how notice may be communicated
to him. With this information at hand the state may
properly authorize service to be made on one of its own
officials, if it also requires that notice of that service shall
be communicated to the person sued. Every statute of
this kind, therefore, should require the plaintiff bringing
the suit to show in the summons to be served the post
office address or residence of the defendant being sued,
and should impose either on the plaintiff himself or upon
the official receiving service or some other, the duty of
communication by mail or otherwise with the defendant.
The cases, in which statutes have been upheld providing that non-resident corporations may properly be served
by leaving a summons with a state official, where the
corporation has not indicated a resident agent to be
served, are not especially applicable to the present statute. PennsylvaniaFire Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining Co., 243 U. S. 93; Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236
U. S. 115; Old Wayne Mutual Life Association v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8. Such corporations may properly
be required to Accept service through a public officer as
a condition of their doing business in the state. Their

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
13

Opinion of the Court.

knowledge of the statutory requirement may perhaps
prompt frequent inquiry as to suits against them, of their
appointed agent or at the office of the public official to be
served, but it could hardly be fair or reasonable to require
a non-resident individual owner of a motor vehicle who
may use the state highways to make constant inquiry of
the Secretary of State to learn whether he has been sued.
Even in cases of non-resident corporations, it has been
held that a statute directing service upon them by leaving
process with a state official is void if it contains no provision requiring the official, upon whom the service may be
made, to give the foreign corporations notice that suit has
been brought and citation served. Southern Railway Co.
v. Simon, 184 Fed. 959, 961; Gouner v. Missouri Valley
Bridge Co., 123 La. 964. In the latter case, the Louisiana
court said in respect to such a law:
"This law makes no provision whatever for the service
on the defendant. The officer may decline to communicate with the person sued and give no notice whatever;
not even by mail. A judgment might be obtained without the least knowledge of the person sued. Under the
phrasing of the statute, the duty of the officer begins and
end§ in his office. If such a judgment were rendered, it
could receive no recognition whatever at the place of the
domicile. When a petition cannot legally be served on a
defendant, the court can exercise no jurisdiction over him.
The service defines the court's jurisdiction."
The question is mooted in Simon v. Southern Railway,
236 U. S. 115, 129, and the above language is quoted, but
it was not found necessary to decide the point.
It is instructive in this matter to refer to state authorities to observe their view of what is valid in statutory
provision for service upon proposed defendants, corporate
or otherwise, where personal service can not be had. In
Nelson v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Co.,
225 Ill. 197, the action was for personal injuries. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

statute provided that service could be had upon the president of a company at the place of business in the county,
but that if there was no officer in the county, then the
company might be notified by publication and mail in
like manner and with like effect as is provided in the rules
of chancery. Those rules required an affidavit showing
the publication of a notice in a newspaper, and the mailing of the notice published. It was held that the service
under the statute was valid as a reasonable one, for it was
probable that the defendant would receive actual notice
of the action before judgment was rendered against it.
In Jefferson FireInsurance Co. v. Brackin, 140 Ga. 637,
the statute provided that an action could be brought
against an insurance company in the county in which the
contract was made, out of which the cause of action arose,
although there was no agent doing business in the county
at the time. Also, that service of summons might be
made by leaving a copy of the writ at the place of business
of the agent at the time the cause of action accrued. The
latter provision in the actual case was said to be lacking in
due process for the reason that there was- no reasonable
probability that the company would receive notice in
cases where there was no longer a place of business in the
county.
In Pinney v. Providence Loan & Investment Company,
106 Wis. 396, the suit was by the grantee of a tax deed
against the defendant corporation and another, as the
former owners of the land, to bar their rights. The corporation was organized under the laws of the state and
had its principal place of business in the county. The
statute provided that corporations should file the names
of officers upon whom service might be made, and that in
all cases prior to the filing of such a list, service might be
had by delivering and leaving with the register of deeds
of the county where the corporation had its principal

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
13

Opinion of the Court.

place of business, a copy of the papers. .Service in this
case was had on the register of deeds accordingly. It was
held that the statute was unconstitutional; that while the
state might authorize constructive service on corporations,
" the method adopted should be reasonably calculated to
bring notice home to some of the officers or agents of the
corporation, and thus secure an opportunity for being
heard."
In Town of Hinckley v. Kettle River R. R. Co., 70
Minn. 105, there was an action against the railroad company for the recovery of certain bonds or their value.
The statute provided that when a corporation created by
the laws of the state did not have an officer in the state
upon whom legal service of process could be made, an
action might be brought in a county where the cause of
action arose or the corporation had property, and a
service might be made by depositing a copy of the summons in the office of the secretary of state, which should
be taken as a personal service on the corporation; provided that whenever any process was served on the secretary of state, the same should be by duplicate copies,
one of which should be filed in the office of the secretary
of state, and the other mailed by him immediately,
postage prepaid, to the office of the company, or to the
president, or secretary as found by the articles of incorporation on file in the office of the state official. It was
held that the statute provided for due process, there being
a necessity for providing for substituted service on domestic corporations, when their officers could not be found
within the state, and that the method adopted was appropri.te and likely to communicate actual notice of the
commencement of the action to the corporation.
In McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90, 91, a person
domiciled in Texas left the state to make his home in
another state. An action for money was begun by pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

lication in a newspaper after his departure, and a judgment recovered and sustained by the state supreme court
was held void by this Court. This Court said:
"The foundation of jurisdiction is physical power,
although in civilized times it is not necessary to maintain that power throughout proceedings properly begun,
and although submission to the jurisdiction by appearance may take the place of service upon the person ...
No doubt there may be some extension of the means of
acquiring jurisdiction beyond service or appearance, but
the foundation should be borne in mind. Subject to its
conception of sovereignty even the common law required
a judgment not to be contrary to natural justice. .
And in states bound together by a Constitution and subject to the Fourteenth Amendment, great caution should
be used not to let fiction deny the fair play that can be
secured only by a pretty close adhesion to fact." See
also Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398.
These cases and others indicate a general trend of authority toward sustaining the validity of service of process,
if the statutory provisions in themselves indicate that
there is reasonable probability that if the statutes are
complied with, the *defendant will receive actual notice,
and that is the principle that we think should apply
here.
But it is said that the defendant here had actual notice
by service out of New Jersey in Pennsylvania. He did
not, however, appear in the cause and such notice was not
required by the statute. Not having been directed by the
statute it can not, therefore, supply constitutional validity
to the statute or to service under it. Coe v. Armour
Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S. 413, 424, 425; Louisville and
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Stock Yards Company, 212 U. S.
132, 144; Central of GeorgiaRy. Co. v. Wright, 207 U. S.
127, 138; Security Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S. 323,
333; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398, 409; Stuart v. Palmer,

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
13

BRANDEIS and HOLMES, JJ., dissenting.

74 N. Y. 183, 188; Berryhill v. Sepp, 106 Minn. 458. For
these reasons, we think that the statute of New Jersey
under consideration does not make provision for communication to the proposed defendant, such as to create
reasonable probability that he would be made aware of
the bringing of the suit.
Judgment reversed.
MR.

BRANDEIS (with whom
concurs), dissenting.

JUSTICE

HOLMES

MR. JUSTICE

The rule of general law stated by the Court seems to me
sound. But I think the judgment should be affirmed.
The objection sustained by the Court-that the statute is
void because it fails to provide that the Secretary of State
shall notify the non-resident defendant-is an objection
taken for the first time in this Court. It was not made
or considered below; and it is not to be found in the
assignments of error filed in this Court. The only objection made or considered below was that the state court
lacked jurisdiction, because the defendant had not been
personally served within the State. In other words, that
while the State might require the defendant to appoint
the Secretary of State as his agent to receive service, as
held in Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, service without
such appointment is bad. When the case at bar was decided below, the validity for that objection was an open
question. Before the case was reached for argument in
this Court, Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S. 352, settled that
process other than personal service within the State may
suffice to give jurisdiction over non-resident motorists.
The objection now urged-that failure to prescribe .the
Secretary shall notify the non-resident denies due process--is an afterthought provoked by our decision in Hess
v. Pawloski.
The nature of our jurisdiction under § 237 of the Judicial Code demands a rigorous adherance to the long estab-

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
BRA'NDEIS

and

HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

lished practice that objections not raised or considered
below cannot be relied on here. National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 363; Edwards v Elliott, 21 Wall.
532, 557; Bolin v. Nebraska, 176 U. S. 83, 89; Detroit,
Fort Wayne & Belle Isle Ry. v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383,
390-391; Cox v. Texas, 202 U. S. 446, 451; Haire v. Rice,
204 U. S. 291, 301. It is immaterial that Wuchter made
a general objection that the statute violated the due process clause. Compare Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572;
Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 197-201; Bullen v.
Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625, 632. The wisdom of that rule
of practice is illustrated by what has happened in the
case at bar. The reversal rests wholly upon a construction given to the New Jersey statute by this Court. It
construes the statute as not requiring the Secretary of
State to give notice to the defendant. Whether the Court
of Errors and Appeals would have so construed the statute
is at least doubtful. Had the objection been made there,
it is possible-and indeed probable-that the highest
court of New Jersey would have construed the statute as
requiring the notice. Its able opinion shows that it appreciates fully the requirements of the due process clause.
See also Redzina v. Provident Institution for Savings,
96 N. J. Eq. 346.
For aught that appears, it may have been the uniform
practice of the Secretary to give notice whenever the
address of the defendant was ascertainable. Such an administrative construction would carry great weight with
the courts of New Jersey, State v. Kelsey, 44 N. J. L. 1;
Stephens v. Civil Service Commission, 101 N. J. L. 192,
194, as it would with this Court. United States v. Cerecedo Hermanos y Compania, 209 U. S. 337. Moreover,
the rule that a construction which raises a serious doubt
as to the constitutionality of a statute will not be adopted
if some other construction is open, is a rule commonly
acted upon by the courts of New Jersey, Colwell v. May's

WUCHTER v. PIZZUTTI.
13

BRANDEIS and HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

Landing Water & Power Co., 19 N. J. Eq. 245, 249; Atlantic City Water Works Co. v. Consumers Water Co., 44
N. J. Eq. 427, 437; State v. Tachin, 92 N. J. L. 269, 274,
as it is in this Court. Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co.,
258 U. S. 204, 217; Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 261 U. S. 379, 383; South Utah Mines v.

Beaver County, 262 U. S. 325, 331; Matthew Addy Co. v.
United States, 264 U. S. 239, 245; PanamaR. R. Co. v.
Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 389-390; Lewellyn v. Frick, 268
U. S. 238, 251; Hopkins v. Southern CaliforniaTelephone
Co., 275 U. S. 393. Compare Presserv. Illinois, 116 U. S.
252, 268; Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, 657; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 531, 546. As was
said in St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235
U. S. 350, 369: "We ought not to indulge the presumption either that the legislature intended to exceed the
limits imposed upon state action by the Federal Constitution, or that the courts of the State will so interpret the
legislation as to lead to that result." See also Chicago,
Terre Haute & Southeastern Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 242
U. S. 283, 287.
While this Court has power to construe the statute, it is
not obliged to do so. We have often recognized the
propriety of remanding a case to a state court for the
determination of a delicate question of state law. Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503,
506; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 291; Missouri ex
rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 273
U. S. 126, 131; Cobb Brick Co. v. Lindsay, 275 U. S. 491.
If the judgment is to be reversed, it should be specifically
for the purpose of enabling the Court of Errors and Appeals to pass upon the objection first raised by the defendant in this Court.
In the case at bar, the objection is not lack of jurisdiction, but denial of due process because the statute did not
require the Secretary to notify the non-resident defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

ant. Notice was in fact given. And it was admitted at
the bar that the defendant had, at all times, actual knowledge and the opportunity to defend. The cases cited by
the Court as holding that he could deliberately disregard
that notice and opportunity and yet insist upon a defect
in the statute as drawn, although he was in no way prejudiced thereby, seem hardly reconcilable with a long line
of authorities. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Schmidt, 177. U. S. 230, 238-239; Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S.
427, 436-437; Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. -.215, 227-228;
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Hostetter, 240 U. S. 620;
Aikens v. Kingsbury, 247 U. S. 484, 489. For the reasons
stated, I do not need to attempt to reconcile them.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I agree that the judgment should be reversed and the
cause remanded, but with leave to the state court to determine whether the notice given to the plaintiff in error by
the Secretary of State was required by the statute.
LINSTEAD, EXECUTRIX, v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO
RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 171.

Submitted January 11, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

Train crews of the Big Four Railroad, operating under a reciprocal
arrangement for freight exchange between it and the C. & 0. Rail-

road, ran Big Four locomotives and cabooses from the common
terminal over a twelve-mile stretch of C. & 0. track, on which were
several stations, to a point on the C. & 0. where they picked up
trains of freight cars destined for the Big Four and returned with
them to its line. Though the men were paid 'by the Big Four and
subject to discharge or suspension only by it, the traffic was C. & 0.
traffic, paid for under its tariffs, and the work was done under the
rules of that railroad and under the immediate supervision of its
trainmaster.

