104

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

specified in the franchise and obligatory upon the Company whether compensatory or no.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration of
this case.
BRIMSTONE RAILROAD AND CANAL COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL

FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA

No. 240.

Argued October 10, 11, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission reduced the
divisions of joint rates accorded a short line railroad by an agreement with its connections, and thus increased theirs correspondingly, upon a finding that the share of the short line exceeded a
fair return on its property over cost of service and was tantamount
to a rebate to a mining company which owned its stock and contributed most of its traffic. The finding was based on a study of
the short line's property and affairs; the service it performed;
divisions established by the United States Railroad Administration;
other divisions, past and present; volume and distribution of traffic; comparison between the questioned divisions and those received
by other lines in the same territory; and testimony that competition controlled the agreed divisions; but there was no evidence that
the connecting carriers were in need, or received, or would receive,
more than or less than a fair return from the agreed divisions; that
the joint rates themselves were unfair or unjust, or that the agreed
divisions were "unjust, unreasonable, inequitable or unduly preferential or prejudicial as between the carriers." The order was made
retroactive to the date when the investigation was instituted by the
Commission. Held:
(1) That as items definitely specified by § 15 (6) of the amended
Act to Regulate Commerce were not considered, the order must be
annulled. New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; United
States v. Abilene & Southern Railway, 265 U. S. 274, distinguished.
P. 115.
(2) Section 15 (6) grants no power to require readjustment between carriers of past receipts from agreed joint rates. P. 117.

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 105
104

Argument for Appellant.

(3) Section 15 (6) authorizes the Commission to readjust divisions already received only when the joint rate was established
pursuant to a finding or order of the Commission made under
§ 15 (1) or (3), after full hearing in respect of the specific rate.
Mere permission granted by the Commission to increase or diminish
all rates according to the needs of carriers throughout the country,
is not enough. P. 125.
17 F. (2d) 165, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court sustaining
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission in a
suit brought by the appellant to annul it. The nature
of the order is fully explained in the opinion.
Mr. C. R. Liskow, with whom Messrs. James T. Kilbreth and Wylie M. Barrow were on the brief, for
appellant.
The Commission is without power to determine the
divisions, except as between the carriers party to the
rates, and except after a hearing and investigation of
the operating expenses, taxes and other facts and circumstances connected with the operation of each of the
several carriers participating in such joint rates. Akron,
etc. v. United States, 261 U. S. 184; United States v.
Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274.
The Commission is without power to establish divisions of joint through rates to be applied prior to the
date of its final order and retroactively unless and until
the joint rates, of which such divisions form a part, have
been established pursuant to a finding or order of the
Commission, which must have been made under the provisions of § 15 (3) of the Interstate Commerce Act. The
lower court erred in holding that the increase in rates
allowed by Ex Parte 74 Increased Rates, 58 I. C. C. 220,
was the establishing of joint rates. Virginia Railroad Co.
v. United States, 272 U. S. 658.
The report and order of the Commission, of December
14, 1925, results in the taking of the property of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

276 U. S.

Brimstone without due process of law and the confiscation thereof in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The divisions received by the Brimstone had all been
proportionately reduced by § 15 (2) of the Interstate
Commerce Act before collection, and the Government has
appropriated the excess net railway operating income
of the Brimstone over 6 per centum per annum on the
value of the carrier's property used in the service of
transportation.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
The Commission not only had the authority, but it was
its duty, to investigate and consider the one enterprise
and single investment which is the dominant feature of
this case. It falls clearly within a line of cases in which
the one enterprise and single investnent arrangement has
been condemned repeatedly. United States v. Koenig
Coal Co., 270 U. S. 512; The Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S.
1; O'Keefe v. United States, 240 U. S. 294; Manufacturers
Rwy. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457. See also Industrial
Rwys. Case, 29 I. C. C. 213; Id. 32 I. C. C. 129; Second
Industrial Rwys. Case, 34 I. C. C. 596; Chicago, West
Pullman & Southern R. R., 37 I. C. C. 558; Chestnut
Ridge Rwy., 41 I. C. C. 62; Chestnut Ridge Rwy. v.
United States, 248 Fed. 791; Louisiana& Pine Bluff Rmiy.
v. United States, 257 U. S. 114; Northampton & Bath R.
R. 41 I. C. C. 68; Ouwasco River Rwy., 53 I. C. C. 104;
Lake Erie & Fort Wayne R. R., 58 I. C. C. 558; Birmingham Southern R. R. v. Director General, 61 1. C. C. 551.
If the Commission must keep the case open in order
that new testimony may be taken each year, and from
year to year, on operating expenses or other subjects, it
would be impossible to fix the divisions. The statute
does not require that hearings shall be perennial. There

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 107
104

Argument for the Commission.

is no presumption that the Commission was considering
matters aliunde.
The Commission had the authority under the statute
to make its order effective as of August 1, 1921, the date
of the order of investigation, and the District Court was
right in so holding.
If appellant, by the order of the Commission, has received all it is entitled to under the law, the adequacy
or inadequacy of the amounts left for Louisiana Western
and Kansas City Southern would seem to be a matter
with which appellant has no concern. Now England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; United States v. Abilene
& Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274.
Mr. D. W. Knowlton, with whom Messrs. E. M. Reidy
and P. J. Farrell were on the brief, for the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Where the need for action is merely the fixing of an
industrial short-line's division, the Commission may fix
separately such division while regarding the remainder
of the joint rate as a joint division or joint proportion
going to the carriers participating in the traffic beyond
the industrial carriers' junction with the connecting trunk
line, and in such case due consideration is given to the
factors named by respectively considering the adequacy
with relation to those factors of the separate division for
the individual needs of the industrial carrier on the one
hand and the adequacy with relation to those factors of
the remaining proportion for the joint needs of the
remaining carriers on the other.
Where the separate fixing of an industrial carrier's division results in an increased proportion going to the
trunk-line carriers, due consideration of the factors named
does not require the submission of the same involved cost
studies and detailed evidence in respect of the thousands
of miles of road operated by the trunk lines as was found

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

practicable in separately fixing the division of the industrial line, for, on the one hand, the interests of the trunk
lines and that of the public in their efficient service has
been promoted by the action taken, and, on the other
hand, the fair return of the industrial line and interest of
the public in its efficient service has been safeguarded by
careful consideration given to detailed evidence.
In reducing the Brimstone's division and consequently
fixing an increased proportion for the remaining carriers,
the Commission gave, with relation to the factors named,
the due consideration to the Brimstone's requirements
and to the joint requirements of the remaining carriers
which the Act called for under the circumstances obtaining.
Such adjustment of divisions was not retroactive in the
sense that it took from the Brimstone, revenue to which
it was ever properly entitled.
The divisions and adjustment thereof ordered by the
Commission, were of joint rates established pursuant to
findings or orders rendered by the Commission in certain
general rate-group proceedings, known as IncreasedRates,
1920, 58 I. C. C. 220; and Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C.
626, thereby strictly conforming not only with the letter
of the divisions paragraph of the Act, but to its purpose as well, which is particularly directed toward effecting distribution commensurately with individual carrier
needs of revenues derived from rates established in just
such general rate-group proceedings, wherein aggregate
carrier needs and property values constitute the prescribed rate bases and individual carrier needs are necessarily disregarded for the time being.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant seeks annulment of an Interstate Commerce
Commission order, entered December 14, 1925, which
designated the divisions it might thereafter receive from

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 109
104

Opinion of the Court.

agreed joint rates and required readjustment of divisions
received subsequent to August 1, 1921, when the investigation began.
The Court below dismissed the bill. Two of the objections to the order, there advanced, will be considered.
1. The Commission failed to investigate or determine
the reasonableness or justness of the divisions, or whether
they were unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, or .unduly
preferential or prejudicial, as between the carriers; also
failed to consider whether the circumstances entitled one
to a greater or less proportion than another of the joint
rates, as commanded by Section 15(6), Transportation
Act, 1920. (41 Stat. c. 91, p. 456.)
2. The joint rates were agreed upon by the parties and
not "established pursuant to any finding or order" of the
Commission, within Section 15(6), Transportation Act,
1920. Consequently, the Commission had no power to
require adjustments for any period prior to the final order.
Section 1(4) Transportation Act, 1920, directs common
carriers to establish through routes, reasonable and equitable rates, fares and charges; also to establish divisions of
joint rates just, reasonable and equitable as between the
participants, which shall not unduly prefer or prejudice
any of them.
Section 15(1) empowers the Commission whenever,
after full hearing, it shall find any rate charged by a carrier is or will be unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential, or prejudicial, or
otherwise in violation of this Act, to determine and prescribe the just and reasonable rate thereafter to be observed, and to make an order requiring the carrier to cease
and desist from such violation.
Section 15 (3) provides that "the Commission may, and
it shall whenever deemed by it to be necessary or desirable
in the public interest, after full hearing," establish joint

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

rates, "and the division of such rates, fares, or charges
as hereinafter provided."
Section 15(6)"Whenever, after full hearing upon complaint or upon
its own initiative, the Commission is of opinion that the
divisions of joint rates, fares, or charges, applicable to
the transportation of passengers or property, are or will
be unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, or unduly preferential or prejudicial as between the carriers parties thereto
(whether agreed upon by such carriers, or any of them,
or otherwise established), the Commission shall by order
prescribe the just, reasonable, and equitable divisions
thereof to be received by the several carriers, and in cases
where the joint rate, fare, or charge was established pursuant to a finding or order of the Commission and the
divisions thereof are found by it to have been unjust,
unreasonable, or inequitable, or unduly preferential or
prejudicial, the Commission may also by order determine
what (for the period subsequent to the filing of the complaint or petition or the making of the order of investigation) would have been the just, reasonable, and equitable
divisions thereof to be received by the several carriers, and
require adjustment to be made in accordance therewith.
In so prescribing and determining the divisions of joint
rates, fares and charges, the Commission shall give due
consideration, among other things, to the efficiency with
which the carriers concerned are operated, the amount of
revenue required to pay their respective operating expenses, taxes, and a fair return -on their railway property held for and used in the service of transportation, and
the importance to the public of the transportation services
of such carriers and also whether any particular participating carrier is an originating, intermediate, or delivering line, and any other fact or circumstance which would
ordinarily, without regard to the mileage haul, entitle

BRIMSTONE R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 111
104

Opinion of the Court.

one carrier to a greater or less proportion than another
carrier of the joint rate, fare or charge."
Appellant owns and operates a railroad ten miles long
in southwestern Louisiana, is a common carrier of freight
only, and makes interchanges with lines of the Southern
Pacific' and Kansas City Southern. Except five shares,
its capital stock-$200,000-is owned by Union Sulphur
Company, which operates mines near its line and consigns and receives over ninety per centum of the property
moving thereon. Prior to 1920 appellant and connecting
carriers established through rates and divisions by agreements. These were modified as permitted or suggested
in Ex Parte 74 (1920) 58 I. C. C. 220, and Matter of
Reduced Rates (1922) 68 I. C. C. 676.
In Ex Parte 74, the Commission considered applications
under section 15a,2 Transportation Act, 1920, for authority
generally to increase rates so that carriers as a whole
might earn a fair return. It found, (July 29, 1920, 58
I. C. C. 220, 246, 245):
' The lines of the Louisiana Western Railroad are part of the
Southern Pacific System.
2 Transportation Act, 1920Sec. 15a [Added February 28, 1920]
(2) In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable
rates the Commission shall initiate, modify, establish or adjust such
rates so that carriers as a whole (or as a whole in each of such rate
groups or territories as the Commission may from time to time designate) will, under honest, efficient and economical management and
reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way, structures and equipment, earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income equal,
as nearly as may be, to a fair return upon the aggregate value of the
railway property of such carriers held for and used in the service of
transportation: Provided, That the Commission shall have reasonable latitude to modify or adjust any particular rate which it may
find to be unjust or unreasonable, and to prescribe different rates for
different sections of the country.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

. . . The following percentage increases in the
charges for freight service, including switching and special
services, together with the other increases hereinbefore
approved, would under present conditions result in rates
not unreasonable in the aggregate under section 1 of the
act and would enable the carriers in the respective groups,
under honest, efficient, and economical management and
reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way, structures, and equipment, to earn an aggregate annual railway
operating income equal, as nearly as may be, to a return
of 51 2 per cent. upon the aggregate value, for the purposes
of this proceeding, of the railway property of such carriers
held for and used in the service of transportation and
one-half of 1 per cent. in addition: eastern group, 40 per
cent.; southern group, 25 per cent.; western group, 35 per
cent.; Mountain-Pacific group, 25 per cent.
"After carefully considering the situation we find that
with the exceptions hereinafter noted general percentage
increases made to fit the needs of the groups of lines
serving each of the four groups must be considered for
present purposes the most practicable. This conclusion
is without prejudice to any subsequent finding in individual situations."
And it accordingly authorized general increases as specified
"in the rates, fares and charges of railroads within the
continental United States." It did not approve or require
the adoption or maintenance of any particular rate.
In the Matter of Reduced Rates, (May 16, 1922, 68
I. C. C. 676)-instituted to determine whether further
general reductions might be required under section 1,
also what would constitute fair return under section
15a(3)-after referring to the authorized increases of
1920, the Commission found that 5.75 per centum would
be fair thereafter and would result if formerly authorized
rates were reduced by specified percentages. The order
was that carriers should promptly report "whether the

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 113
Opinion of the Court.

104

findings herein will be carried into effect without formal
order or orders by us." It did not require the adoption
or maintenance of any rate, nor was any particular rate
approved.
August 1, 1921, the Commission began "an investigation into and concerning the justness, reasonableness, and
equitableness of the divisions received by the Brimstone
Railroad & Canal Company out of the joint rates applicable to the transportation of property." It ordered
"that the Brimstone Railroad and Canal Company, the
Southern Pacific Company and The Kansas City Southern
Railway Company be and they hereby are made respondents to this proceeding."
Testimony was taken relative to ownership and organization of the Brimstone Company; its relation to Union
Sulphur Company; its operating and financial condition,
including dividends, surplus, and character of service performed; volume of road-building material carried for
Parish purposes; establishment by United States Railroad
Administration of divisions with connecting lines, with
factors considered in connection therewith; comparison
between the questioned divisions and those received by
other lines in the same territory; also value of operating
property, including cost of reproduction.
The Commission's first report-April 4, 1922--declared
the Brimstone Company a common carrier subject to the
interstate commerce act entitled to participate in joint
rates, or have its charges absorbed under appropriate tariff
provisions. And further:
"The divisions to the Brimstone should produce no
more than an amount sufficient to cover the cost of its
service and a fair return upon the property held for and
used in the service of transportation. We conclude that
the facts of record, including the dividends paid by the
Brimstone in past years and the accumulated credit balance to profit and loss, indicate divisions to the Brimstone
318°-29-8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

which are disproportionate, in view of the service rendered, and are tantamount to a rebate to the proprietary
company.
"We find that the divisions of joint rates now received
by the Brimstone from the two other respondents on interstate traffic are, and for the future will be unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, and to the extent that they exceed
or may exceed the cost of the service and a fair return
upon the property held for and used in the service of
transportation for the public generally, are excessive, and,
in effect, amount to a rebate to the proprietary company.
It does not necessarily follow that reasonable and equitable divisions to the Brimstone should be on the maximum
basis.
"The record will be held open for a period of ninety
days from the date of service of this report, during which
respondents will be expected to make the necessary cost
studies for the purpose of arriving at reasonable divisions
to the Brimstone."
The subsequent studies related only to the Brimstone
Company; they did not extend at all to connecting carriers. The Commission (88 I. C. C. 58, March 10, 1924)
said they were "intended to develop the average cost,
including return on investment, of moving loaded cars to
and from the Southern Pacific and Kansas City Southern."
No studies were made or evidence taken concerning efficiency of Southern Pacific and Kansas City Southern lines,
amount of revenue required to pay their respective operating expenses, taxes, and fair return upon their property,
or the public importance of services performed by them, or
any other fact or circumstance (except as shown above)
which ordinarily, without regard to the mileage haul,
would entitle them to a greater or less proportion of the
joint rate. Section 15(6).
March 10, 1924, a second report and order prescribed
what the Brimstone Company might thereafter receive

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 115
104

Opinion of the Court.

from joint rates and ordered readjustment of divisions received after August 1, 1921. No change was directed in
the joint rates or finding made relevant to their justness,
nor was there any pronouncement concerning apportionments amongst other carriers. The Commission said:"Based upon the cost of the service and a fair return
upon the property held for and used in the service of transportation for the public generally, we find that during the
period from August 1, 1921, to but not including July 1,
1922, just, reasonable and equitable divisions to the Brimstone would have been: (Here follows certain specific
divisions)

.

.

"We further find that on and after July 1, 1922, just,
reasonable and equitable divisions to the Brimstone were,
are and for the future will be: (Here follows certain
specific divisions) ..
"We further find that the divisions received by the
Brimstone should be adjusted on a basis not in excess of
the charges above found just, reasonable and equitable
during the periods named."
On December 14, 1925, a final report and order reaffirmed the order of March 10, 1924, with some modifications (presently unimportant) in amounts allowed the
Brimstone Company from the joint rates.
The Commission evidently undertook to deprive the
Brimstone Company of receipts supposed to exceed a
fair return on its property and award the same to connecting carriers without evidence tending to sh6w they
were in need or had or would receive more or less than a
fair return from agreed divisions, or that the joint rates
themselves were unfair and unjust, or that the agreed
divisions were "unjust, unreasonable, inequitable, or
unduly preferential or prejudicial as between the carriers."
Counsel suggest that in addition to facts revealed by
studies of the Brimstone Company's affairs, the Commission did consider existing division sheets of joint rates,

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

volume and distribution of traffic, past division sheets,
divisions accorded to the Brimstone Company by the
Federal Director-General, also testimony showing competition controlled the agreed divisions. But the very definite command of Section 15(6) required more than that.
Both parties rely upon New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S. 184, and. United States v. Abilene & Southern
Ry. Co. 265 U. S. 274.
The first involved an order granting larger divisions
to New England roads. We there recognized the necessity of evidence "typical in character and ample in quantity to justify the findings made in respect to each division of each rate of every carrier," and declared that with
such evidence before it the Commission properly proceeded to consider the importance to the public of the
weak carriers and directed divisions intended to effectuate
the purpose of Congress to insure adequate transportation
service for the whole country, by extending aid to them.
Nothing in the opinion supports the view that the Commission may take something from one carrier merely because its net revenue appears unduly large and donate
this to another demanding nothing and not in need.
Cost of service to one carrier is not the only factor to be
considered in determining just divisions.
In the second case the Commission undertook to modify
existing divisions for the benefit of a weak road. It did
not appear that any matters consideration of which was
required by Section 15(6) Transportation Act, 1920,
had been ignored, but the evidence concerning some of
these things had not been properly presented and therefore the order was annulled. It was there said: (284)
"Relative cost of service is not the only factor to be considered in determining just divisions." (291) "The
power conferred by Congress on the Commission is that
of determining, in respect to each joint rate, what divi-

BRIMSTONE R.R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 117
104

Opinion of the Court.

sions will be just. Evidence of individual rates or divisions, said to be typical of all, affords a basis for a finding
as to any one. But averages are apt to be misleading. It
cannot be inferred that every existing division of every
joint rate is unjust as between particular carriers, because
the aggregate result of the movement of the traffic on
joint rates appears to be unjust. These aggregate results
should properly be taken into consideration by the Commission; but it was not proper to accept them as a substitute for typical evidence as to the individual joint rates
and divisions. In the New England Divisions Case,
tariffs and division sheets were introduced which, in the
opinion of the Commission were typical in character, and
ample in quantity, to justify the findings made in respect
to each division of each rate of every carrier. A like course
should have been pursued i. the proceeding under review."
The record discloses that before making the challenged
order the Commission failed to consider the items definitely specified by Section 15(6). And it must be
annulled.
The Court below gave special attention to the second of
the above stated objections to the order. This relates
only to the retroactive feature. And it approved what
we regard as an erroneous view touching readjustments of
past divisions announced by the Interstate Commerce
Commission in several proceedings. Pittsburg, etc., Ry.
Co. v. Pittsburg Company, 61 I. C. C., 272; Western
Maryland Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 69
I. C. C. 703, 707; New York Dock Ry. Co. v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. 89 1. C. C. 695; and Marion & Eastern Ry.
Co. v. C. & E. I. R. R. Co., 96 I. C. C. 402.
Prior to 1920, the interstate commerce act contained
the following provisions concerning the readjustments of
divisions of rates determined and prescribed by the
Commission:

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

"Sec. 15. That whenever, after full hearing . . . the
Commission shall be of opinion that any individual or
joint rates or charges whatsoever demanded, . .. are
unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, or
unduly preferential or prejudicial or otherwise in violation
of any of the provisions of this Act, the Commission is
hereby authorized and empowered to determine and prescribe what will be the just and reasonable individual or
joint rate or rates, charge or charges, to be thereafter
observed in such case as the maximum to be charged,
...and to make an order that the carrier or carriers
shall cease and desist from such violation to the extent
to which the Commission finds the same to exist, .
Whenever the carrier or carriers, in obedience to such
order of the Commission or otherwise, in respect to joint
rates, fares, or charges, shall fail to agree among themselves upon the apportionment or division thereof the
Commission may, after hearing, make a supplemental
order prescribing the just and reasonable proportion of
such joint rate to be received by each carrierparty thereto,
which order shall take effect as a part of the original
order...... "
An explanation of the meaning of and reasons underlying that part of Section 15 italicized above appears in
Morgantown& Kinqwood Divisions, 40 I. C. C. 509, 510:
"The provision dates back to the time when the Commission, under section 15 of the original act, had no authority to deal with rates except upon formal complaint.
It now constitutes a part of that section, as amended,
which gives us power to require, after hearing either upon
formal complaint or in a proceeding instituted on our own
motion, the establishment and maintenance of joint rates
lower than the aggregate of the intermediate rates or joint
rates already in effect, or proposed by the carriers in tariffs
under suspension. It does not come into play until, as a
condition precedent, the Commission has made some re-

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 119
104

Opinion of the Court.

quirement after full hearing. The reason therefor, as we
understand it, is to provide a means of determining which
carrier, or to what extent each carrier, shall bear an
enforced reduction or participate in an approved increase
in the existing or proposed through charge. In other
words, the Commission, in creating a joint rate or in reducing a joint rate below what had been established voluntarily or is proposed by the carriers, having brought
about a situation different from that as to which their
agreement applied and not in contemplation when the
agreement was made, is to have the power to complete
what it has undertaken, in case the carriers themselves
do not find it possible to agree upon the divisions of the
new rate."
"The language of the act [1917] seemed to indicate
that the authority was to be exercised only when the parties failed to agree among themselves, and only in supplement to some order fixing the rates." New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 194.
The occasion for the changes incorporated in Section
15(6)-Act 1920-were pointed out before the House
Committee by Interstate Commerce Commissioner Clark,
July 16, 1919. (House Hearings, Return of Railroads, etc.,
Vol. 1, page 29). He said"There has been a good deal of difference of opinion,
both inside and outside of the commission, as to its powers
under the present act. The act now authorizes the commission to establish joint rates and says that if the carriers are not able to agree on a division of the rates so
prescribed, the commission may determine those divisions
and its decision relative thereto shall become effective as
a part of the original order and as of the date upon
which the rates became effective. But there have come
up questions as to divisions of rates which had not been
prescribed by the commission and which had become
unsatisfactory to one or possibly more than one carrier.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

T~e commission originally held that it did not have jurisdiction to prescribe the divisions of a joint rate that had
not been prescribed by it. [Morgantown & Kingwood
.Divisions, supra] Thereafter, the dissatisfied carrier
could bring that question at issue by filing a revocation
of its concurrence in the rates, or if it happened to be a
carrier that published the rates, by filing a cancellation
of them. That was frequently protested, often suspended
by the commission, and upon hearing it developed that
the only difficulty was their differences as to divisions of
rates. Requiring them by order to continue the rates
was, in effect, establishing those rates as joint rates, and
we thereupon proceeded to prescribe the divisions, if they
could not agree.
"Later, by a majority vote, the commission decided
that it had power to prescribe the divisions, even if it
had not prescribed the rates [Morgantown & Kingwood
Divisions, 49 I. C. C. 540]; but that has not as yet come
to rest through any final adjudication.
"Under this amendment the commission would be
authorized to prescribe the divisions of the joint rates,
fares, and charges as between the carriers, whether it
prescribed the rates or not, and it is provided that if it
be a rate, fare, or charge that has been prescribed by the
commission, it may then, by order, make its division of
that rate retroactive to the date upon which the rate
prescribed by it became effective; but as to rates not
prescribed by the commission, its order prescribing the
divisions of the rate would be effective only from the
effective date of the order."
Reporting in behalf of the House Committee-(Nov.
10, 1919, H. R. Vol. 2, Reports on Public Bills)--Chairman Esch said:"Section 417 amends section 15 of the commerce act so
as to give the commission power not only to fix the maxi-

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 121
104

Opinion of the Court.

mum rate, but to fix the particular rate to be charged, or
the maximum, or the minimum, or the maximum and
minimum....
"The amendment also increases the powers of the
commission in regard to making of through routes and
joint rates, authorizing it to prescribe the joint rate or
the maximum, or the minimum, or the maximum and
minimum. The commission is authorized to prescribe just
and reasonable divisions of joint rates among the several
carriers and where the joint rate was fixed by the commission and the divisions are found to have been unjust,
the commission may determine what would have been
the just division thereof, and require adjustment to be
made."
Section 15(6) should be construed in the light of the
recognized difficulties. Under the earlier act a clear distinction was made between joint rates "agreed upon"
and those "determined and prescribed" by the Commission after full hearing "to be thereafter observed." The
Commission had power to declare proper divisions of those
in the latter category by order "which shall take effect as
part of the original order "-that is from the date the
rate was prescribed. Whether it could determine divisions of agreed rates for the future was not clear; but certainly it could not require readjustments of divisions of
such rates for past periods. Morgantown & Kingwood
Divisions, 40 I. C. C. 509, 49 I. C. C. 540, 551. Section
15(6) established the right to prescribe future divisibns of
agreed rates, but we think the studied purpose was to grant
no power to require readjustments of past receipts from
agreed joint rates. Theretofore power in respect of past
divisions existed only when rates had been determined
and prescribed after full hearing-that is where the commission had passed upon the reasonableness of the rate
and required observance. Obviously a carrier may have

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

assented to a through rate only because of the divisions
accorded to it: to permit the Commission to change this
arrangement as to past transactions would be exceedingly
harsh if not wholly unreasonable. Ordinarily, divisions
of a particular rate are not of public interest if the rate
itself is reasonable. Probably aware of hardships under
the old rule, the new act shortened the time during which
readjustment might be required-7limited its beginning to
the commencement of investigation or filing of complaint.
In support of the retroactive provision of the present
order counsel say that joint rates between the Brimstone
Company and connecting carriers were made under authority of Ex Parte 74, 58 I. C. C. 220, and Matter of
Reduced Rates, 68 I. C. C. 676, and therefore were "established pursuant to a finding or order of the Commission."
But mere general permission or suggestion concerning
rates for all carriers, without consideration of the reasonableness of any particular rate, is not the "finding or
order" referred to by Section 15(6). We think that refers to one which, after full hearing, determined and
prescribed a rate thereafter to be observed. The contrary
view would place substantially all presently existing rates
in the class with particular rates established by order of
the Commission after full hearing, subject them to retroactive adjustments, and thus destroy the practical value
of the distinction which Congress carefully preserved.
The power to require readjustments for the past is
drastic. It may reasonably exist in cases where the par:ticular rate has been approved by the Commission after
-full hearing: it ought not to be extended so as to permit
unreasonably harsh action without very plain words.
The general findings and permission of Ex Parte 74 and
Matter of Reduced Rates did not approve or fix any particular rate and certainly did not determine and prescribe
the rates divisions of which are here under consideration.

BRIMSTONE R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 123
104

Opinion of the Court.

Neither case approved "any specific rate as reasonable in
itself or as properly adjusted with respect to other rates
nor did it justify in advance any rate which might be
published as a result thereof." In them the Commission
was dealing with the whole body of rates throughout the
country-was looking at the general level of all rates and
the propriety of the rates to which the Brimstone Company was partywas not the subject of particular investigation or consideration. See Morgantown & Kingwood
Divisions, 40 I. C. C. 511; Globe Soap Co. v. A. & S. Ry.
Co., 40 I. C. C. 121; Steel & Tube Co. v. Director General,
61 I. C. C. 526.
Section 15(1) Transportation Act, 1920, authorizes the
'Commission, after full hearing, to determine and prescribe
joint rates to be thereafter observed. Section 15 (3) permits the Commission, after full hearing, to establish joint
rates "and the divisions of such rates, fares or charges as
hereinafter provided." And Section 15 (6) authorizes readjustments of divisions already received only when the
joint rate was established pursuant to a finding or order
of the Commission. Such finding or order must have
been under Section 15(1) or (3)-after full hearing in
respect to the specific rate. This construction will insure
compliance with the purpose of Congress by requiring the
Commission, upon full hearing, to pass upon the particular
rate before divisions for the past can be directed. Mere
permission to increase or diminish all rates according to
the general needs of carriers throughout the country is
not enough.
The decree below must be reversed. The cause will be
remanded there for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTicE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
dissent.

