SMITH & SON v. TAYLOR.
174

Syllabus.

future the duties to be performed by, or the salaries or
other compensation to be paid to, them. Butler v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402. But after services have been rendered by a public officer under a law specifying his compensation, there arises an implied contract under which
he is entitled to have the amount so fixed. And the constitutional protection extends to such contracts just as
it does to those specifically expressed. The selection of
plaintiff to be the Revenue Agent amounted to a request
or direction by the State that he exert the authority and
discharge all the duties of that office. In the performance
of services so required of him plaintiff made the investigations and brought the suits to discover and collect the
delinquent taxes. Under the statutes then in force as
construed by the highest court of the State, he thereupon
became entitled to the specified percentages of the
amounts subsequently collected on account of the taxes
sued for. The retroactive application of c. 170 would
take from him a part of the amount that he had theretofore earned. That would impair the obligation of the
implied contract under which he became entitled to the
commissions. This case is ruled by Fisk v. Jefferson
Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131.
Judgment reversed.

T. SMITH & SON, INC. v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE PARISH OF ORLEANS,
LOUISIANA.

No. 186.

Argued January 18, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

While a longshoreman, employed in the unloading of a vessel at dock,
was standing upon a stage that rested solely upon the wharf and
projected a few feet over the water to or near the vessel, he was
struck by a sling loaded with cargo, which was being lowered over
her side, and was knocked into the water, where some time later he
was found dead.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Held, that the right of action for his death was controlled by the
state, and not by the maritime, law, since, though the death occurred in the water, the occurrence which was the sole, immediate
and proximate cause of it and gave rise to the cause of action, was
on the wharf, which was to be deemed an extension of the land.
P. 181.
5 La. Ct. App. 284, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeal of Louisiana affirming a recovery under the state workmen's compensation law. The Supreme Court of the. State denied
a writ of certiorari.
Mr. John May, with whom Mr. Edmund L. Jones was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Eugie V. Parham,with whom Mr. Edward Rightor
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
March 12, 1925, plaintiff in error, a stevedoring corporation, was unloading a vessel lying in the Mississippi at
a dock in New Orleans. George Taylor was in its employ
as a longshoreman and came to his death while engaged
in that work. Defendant in error is his widow and
brought this suit in the Civil District Court of Orleans
Parish under the Louisiana Workmen's Compensation
Law * to recover compensation for herself and children.
The district court gave judgment for them; the Court of
Appeal affirmed; and its presiding judge, after the state
Supreme Court had denied a writ of certiorari, allowed
the writ of error that brings the case here.
Plaintiff in error maintained below and here insists that
this is a case exclusively within the admiralty and marl* Act 20 of 1914 as amended by Act 243 of 1916, Act 38 of 1918,
Acts 234, 244 and 247 of 1920, Act 43 of 1922 and Acts 21 and 216
of 1924.

SMITH & SON v. TAYLOR.
179

Opinion of the Court.

time jurisdiction, and that, while the state Compensation
Law is broad enough to apply to longshoremen unloading
vessels, its application in this case violates ยง 2 of Art. 3
of the Constitution, which extends the judicial power of
the United States "to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction" and also that clause of ยง 8 of Art. 1 which
authorizes Congress to make laws for carrying into effect
the powers granted by the Constitution.
At the time of the accident, cargo was being hoisted out
of the hold to deck skids and thence swung to trucks operated upon a stage that rested solely upon the wharf and
projected a few feet over the water to or near the side of
the vessel. The petition of defendant in error alleged,
and she introduced evidence to show, that deceased was
standing on the stage when a sling, loaded with five sacks
of soda weighing 200 pounds each, was being lowered over
the side by means of a winch on the vessel; that the sling
was swinging back and forth and, while deceased was
trying to catch and steady it, the sling struck him and
knocked him off the stage into the water where sometime
later he was found dead. At the trial plaintiff in error
maintained that deceased was not struck but accidentally
fell into the river. The issues were decided in favor of
defendant in error and the evidence is amply sufficient to
sustain the finding.
Deceased was engaged in maritime work under a maritime contract. If the cause of action arose upon the river,
the rights of the parties are controlled by maritime law,
the case is within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
and the application of the Louisiana Compensation Law
violated ยง 2 of Art. 3. But, if the cause of action arose
upon the land, the state law is applicable. The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, 33; Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 59; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149; Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219. Plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

tiff in error concedes that the stage and wharf on which
deceased was working are to be deemed an extension of
the land (Cleveland Terminal R. R. v. Steamship Co., 208
U. S. 316, 321; Industrial Comm. v. Nordenholt Co., 259
U. S. 263, 275) and that the state law would apply if he
had been injured or killed by falling on the landing-place.
It argues that as no claim was made for injuries sustained
while deceased was on land and as the suit was solely for
death that occurred in the river, the case is exclusively
within the admiralty jurisdiction. But this is a partial
view that cannot be sustained. The blow by the sling was
what gave rise to the cause of action. It was given and
took effect while deceased was upon the land. It was the
sole, immediate and proximate cause of his death. The
G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450, 460. The substance and consummation of the occurrence which gave rise to the cause
of action took place on land. The Plymouth, supra. This
case cannot be distinguished from Johnson v. Chicago
Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388, 397 or Martin v. West, 222
U. S. 191, 196, The contention of plaintiff in error is
without merit.
Judgment affirmed.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND W E S T E R N
RAILROAD COMPANY v. TOWN OF MORRIS-

TOWN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 147.

Argued January 6, 9, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

The railroad company constructed a driveway over its station
grounds to connect with the streets of the town. The railroad and
the town agreed that the driveway should be kept open and that
the town should exercise upon the station grounds, etc., all necessary
police powers for the regulation of traffic and for the enforcement
of the railroad's rules and regulations. The railroad granted a

