OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

Section 2 appeared in its present form in the original
Act. The pertinent provision is: "It shall be unlawful
for any person to sell . . . any of the aforesaid drugs
except in pursuance of a written order of the person to
whom such article is sold . . . on a form to be issued in
blank for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue." 38 Stat. 786.
The effect of these two provisions is to prohibit sale by
any person who has not registered and to permit sale by a
registered person upon a written blank issued by the
Commissioner. That conclusion is so plain that discussion
cannot affect it.
Question 1 should be answered Yes.
Question 2 need not be answered.
Question 3 should be answered Yes.
Question 4 should be answered No.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND concurs in

this opinion.

CORONA CORD TIRE COMPANY v. DOVAN
CHEMICAL CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 182.

Argued January 16, 17, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. Discovery that a change of ingredients in a process speeds the re-

sult, entitles the inventor to any other advantages flowing from
the substitution. P. 369.
2. The fact that a party was the first to discover and obtain a valid
patent for a process of producing a substance, held irrelevant to
the question whether he was the first discoverer of its utility as an
ingredient in another process. P. 370.
3. Under Rev. Stats. § 4886, a person is not to be denied a patent
because of a publication printed after his discovery and not more
than two years before his application. P. 372.
4. Invention of a process for vulcanizing rubber, and its reduction to
practice, may be established by proof of actual tests in which test

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Argument for Petitioner.

slabs of rubber, properly vulcanized, were made. Production of
rubber goods for use or sale was not indispensable. Pp. 373, 383.
5. Reckless overstatements of the extent of earlier reduction to practice by the applicant, made in affidavits filed in a patent proceeding to meet a reference of prior publication, held not destructive
of the presumption of validity accompanying the patent, where the
sufficiency of the affidavits in other respects rendered such statements superfluous. P. 374.
6. Where a patentee met a reference in the patent proceeding merely
by evidence of his own priority of discovery, his failure then to
attack its sufficiency in other respects did not subject him to the
burden of proving it insufficient in a suit to enjoin infringement
of the patent. P. 374.
7. The findings of a trial court which heard the witnesses are not
conclusive here when contrary to the findings of the Circuit Court
of Appeals made in the same case, and of the trial court in another
case, upon the same evidence. P. 375.
8. Priority of discovery may be proved by one witness, not financially interested, in connection with other circumstances. P. 382.
9. One who first discovered and proved the utility of an improvement
in a process, can not be said to have abandoned his invention, as
against a subsequent discoverer or patentee, because he did not use
the discovery commercially or apply for a patent. P. 384.
10. A claim to the exclusive use of a large group of related chemical
compounds, unsupported by proof that all have a common quality
rendering each useful in the process patented, is too broad. P. 385.
11. Patent No. 1,411,231, issued March 28, 1922, to Weiss for a process
of vulcanizing rubber by combining with the rubber compound,
diphenylguanidine, or "a disubstituted guanidine," and for the
vulcanized product, held invalid. P. 385.
16 F. (2d) 419, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 692, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the District
Court, 10 F. (2d) 298, dismissing a bill to enjoin infringement of a patent. See also Dovan Chemical Corp'n v.
Nat'l Aniline Co., 292 Fed. 555.
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, with whom Messrs. Wm. H.
Davis and Frank E. Barrows were on the brief, for petitioner.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

276 U. S.

There was no criticism whatever of the sufficiency of
the Kratz paper as a disclosure of all that was contained
in the Weiss application. Instead, affidavits were submitted attempting to establish an earlier date for Weiss.
This constitutes an admission that the disclosure in the
Kratz paper covered all that was claimed by the applicant
and that the rejection was a proper one. Ex Parte Saunders, 1883 C. D. 23, 24; The National Case, 292 Fed. 558.
The grant of the patent in suit was secured by misrepresentation of the facts in ex parte affidavits.
This situation calls for the application of the rule, that
in the absence of manifest error an appellate court will
not go behind a ruling of the trial court on such an issue
as credibility of witnesses. It is no argument against the
application of this rule that the Court of Appeals reversed
the ruling of the District Court.
If a patentee is not the first inventor, his patent is void.
This Court has reiterated that proposition at brief intervals over the past hundred years, the most recent instance
being in Alexander Milburn Co. v. Davis.-Bournonville Co.,
270 U. S. 390.
The prior knowledge and use by a single person is
sufficient. The number is immaterial. Coffin v. Ogden,
18 Wall. 120; Egbert v. Lippmann, 104 U. S. 333; Hall v.
Macneale, 107 U. S. 90; Alexander Milburn Co. v. DavisBournonville Co., supra. See also Kendall v. Windsor,
21 How. 322; Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1; McClurg v.
Kingsland, 1 How. 202.
The reading of the Kratz paper was a step toward publication just as is the filing of an application for patent,
and the subsequent printing and distribution of the paper
was a publication just as is the issuance of a patent.
Both are publications; they differ only in that one is publication with an altruistic motive, whereas the other is
publication for a consideration, namely, the monopoly

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Argument for Petitioner.

covered by the patent. The diligence of one man or the
other does not have to be considered because no question
of diligence is presented when one man was first both in
the conception of the invention and also in giving it to
the public. National case, 292 Fed. 559; Twentieth Century Mach. Co. v. Loew Mfg. Co., 243 Fed. 373. See also
Lowe v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co., 2 F. (2d) 157; Automatic Weighing Machine Co. v. Pneumatic Co., 166 Fed.
288; Christie v. Seybold, 55 Fed. 69.
If there was any abandonment at any stage of the way,
it was abandonment of a completed invention, completed
in 1916 at Norwalk, and any such abandonment was
abandonment to the public, which made the invention
open for use by anyone. Evans v. Eaton, 3 Wheat. 454;
ConsolidatedFruit Jar Co. v. Wright, 94 U. S. 92; Planing
Machine Co. v. Keith, 101 U. S. 479; Pickeringv. McCullough, Fed. Cas. No. 11,121, 3 Ban. & A. 279, affirmed 104
U. S. 3.10; Shoup v. Henrici, Fed. Cas. No. 12,814, 2 Ban.
& A. 249; Harbridgev. Perrin,295 Fed. 927.
When the matter under consideration is the effect of a
prior publication in a patent suit, testimony of the author
of the publication as to what he intended to disclose or
what he intended to withhold is not only unimportant,
but is irrelevant. Badische Anilin etc. v. Kalle & Co.,
104 Fed. 802.
The Weiss patent is invalid because of the prior use of
DPG by Dr.. Kratz and the Falls Rubber Company.
There is no rule of law that requires rejection of the uncorroborated testimony of an inventor as to the date of
his conception. Armstrong v. DeForest, 280 Fed. 584;
Sipp Electric & Machine Co. v. Atwood-Morrison Co.,
142 Fed. 149; Tompkins v. N. Y. Woven Wire Mattress
Co., 159 Fed. 133; Riley v. Daniels, Fed. Cas. No. 11,837.
Weiss is not an original inventor. The Weiss patent
does not disclose a patentable invention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

276 U. S.

To a chemist familiar in 1918 with the guanidines in
general and triphenylguanidine in particular, the most
natural thing in the world would have been to think of
diphenylguanidine as usable for the 'same purpose, and
every rubber chemist would have known that the only
way to find out would be to try it according to the routine
methods of laboratory testing. These accelerators and
these test methods are but the tools of the organic chemist and of the rubber chemist. He picks out the proper
one from among those known to him, just as the designer
of machines chooses that mechanical element which will
serve his purpose, and when* he has no rule which will
lead him to an immediate selection of the proper chemical, he, like the designer of machines, resorts to a process
of trial, using the expected skill of his calling. Crediting
Weiss with all that is claimed in his behalf, he cannot
fairly be said to have made an invention by being led by
the use of triphenylguanidine to think that dithenylguanidine might be an accelerator too, trying it and finding out that it is. Smith v. Nichols, 21 Wall. 112; Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192.
But even if that had not been a known principle, no inventive act would have been involved in ascertaining that
by using the DPG whose greater activity was discovered
by Kratz, a better rubber would be produced. Stow v.
Chicago, 104 U. S. 547; Lovell Mfg. Co. v. Cary, 147
U. S. 623; Roberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150.
Claims 1, 5 and 9 of the Weiss patent are invalid by
reason of special matters applying to them only.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. James J. Kennedy
was on the brief, for respondent.
Weiss is entitled to date his invention as early as
March, 1918, for its conception, and February-March,
1919, for its reduction to practice, under either of which
dates he is first, sole, true and original inventor. Christie

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Argument for Respondent.

v. Seybold, 55 Fed. 69; Merrow v. Shoemaker, 59 Fed.
120; Automatic Weighing Machine Co. v. Pneumatic
Scale Corp., 166 Fed. 288; Loom Co. v. Higgins, 105
U. S. 580.
The only inference that can be drawn from Kratz' behavior and from that of the Norwalk Company is that
nothing was discovered as to the practical utility of DPG
in the rubber art. "The intent of the statute was to
guard against defeating patents by the setting up of a
prior invention which had never been reduced to practice." Bedford v. Hunt, 1 Mason 302. See also Agawam
Co. v. Jordan,7 Wall. 583; Tilghman v. Proctor,102 U. S.
707; Diamond Meter Co. v. Westinghouse Electric Mfg.
Co., 152 Fed. 704; Eibel Co. v. Paper Co., 261 U. S. 45;
Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S. 286.
Oral testimony, unsupported by patents or exhibits,
tending to show prior use of a device regularly patented
is, in the nature of the case, open to grave suspicion.
Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S. 286; Pyrene Mfg. Co. v. Boyce, 292 Fed. 480.
Secret uses are infected with incredibility. Still more
so if isolated. Richards v. Burkholder, 29 App. D. C. 485;
Washburn & Moen Mfg. Co. v. Beat 'Em All Barbed Wire
Co., 143 U. S. 275.
The Kratz paper did not disclose the intention of the
patent in suit. The paper was irrelevant as subsequent
to the date of Weiss' invention.
The court below was correct in holding that it was unnecessary to consider the technical contents of th6 Kratz
paper in view of the consensus of the expert testimony in
this case that it disclosed nothing as to the practical
utility of DPG as a vulcanization accelerator. A consideration of the technical contents of the Kfatz paper
shows that it contains no such disclosures as can invalidate the patent in suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

He is the first inventor, and entitled to the patent, who
being an original discoverer, has first perfected and
adapted the invention to actual use. Whitely v. Swayne,
7 Wall. 685; Coffin v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120.
Petitioner also relies on the fact that when upon Weiss'
application for the patent in suit, the Patent Examiner
referred to the Kratz paper as an anticipation, Weiss
availed himself of his privileges under Rule 75 of the
Patent Office, permitting an applicant to establish by
affidavit a date for his invention earlier than that of a
cited anticipation. The contention is that this was an
admission that the Kratz paper constituted an anticipation. The Court should not overlook that the Patent
Office practically invited Weiss to take advantage of Rule
75 rather than contest the finding of anticipation. Had
Weiss elected to contest the sufficiency of the Kratz paper,
a prolonged controversy with the Patent Office might have
developed with destructive consequences to the then infant business. The practice under Rule 75 is well
established in the Patent Office and has received the
sanction of the courts. Thacher v. Mayor, 219 Fed. 909;
and Deering v. Winona Harvester Works, 155 U. S. 286,
not only approve the practice under Rule 75, but hold that
in a subsequent suit on a patent issued pursuant to an
affidavit presented under the rule, the party attacking
the patent must disprove the truth of the facts shown by
the affidavit.
The Weiss patent disclosed a patentable invention.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This isa bill by the Dovan Chemical Corporation
against the Corona Cord Tire Company, to enjoin infringement of a patent issued to Morris L. Weiss, assignor
of the Dovan Chemical Corporation. The District Court

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

for the Western District of Pennsylvania dismissed the
bill for lack of validity of the patent. 10 Fed. (2d) 598.
The dismissal was reversed and the patent and the infringement charged were both sustained by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 16 Fed. (2d)
419. A writ of certiorari was granted, 273 U. S. 692, because in the prior case of Dovan Chemical Corporationv.
National Aniline & Chemical Company, 292 Fed. 555, the
Second Circuit Court of Appeals had reversed the decree of
the District Court for the Southern District of New York
(not reported) in favor of the Dovan Corporation and had
held that the patent was invalid on the ground that Weiss
was not the first discoverer.
The patent in suit relates to the vulcanization of rubber. Vulcanizing consists in mixing a small amount of
sulphur with rubber and subjecting the mixture to heat
for a period of time, during which a chemical combination
of the rubber and sulphur takes place and commercial
rubber is made. The patentee recites that the object of
his invention is to "improve rubber compounds so that
the finished product shall be of superior quality and so
that the time required for vulcanization shall be greatly
reduced over that ordinarily required for such a purpose.
It is known that when certain organic substances are
added to the rubber mix during the compounding, a
catalytic or similar action is produced which causes the
rubber or similar gum to unite or react more rapidly and
thoroughly with sulphur or other vulcanizing agents."
The patentee continues:
"I have discovered that disubstituted guanidines, particularly diphenylguanidine, is particularly effective for
this purpose." (This substance is indicated by the formula given in the patent.)
He says further:
"I am aware that triphenylguanidine has been suggested, and probably used to some extent, as an accelera-

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

tor in the vulcanization of rubber, but the use of diphenylguanidine for that purpose appears to have been unknown
prior to my researches on this substance.
"I have found that diphenylguanidine is much more
powerful and efficacious as an accelerator in vulcanization
than triphenylguanidine. For example, in the vulcanization of hard rubber articles the use of diphenylguanidine
not only hastens the vulcanizating action but results in a
final product much superior in texture, strength, durability and aging qualities over that when the triphenyl.
guanidine is used."
The patentee makes a short reference to a formula by
which he produces the rubber mix, in which he-says:
"The rubber may be compounded in the following proportions: 50 parts by weight of new rubber, 45.5 parts by
weight of zinc oxide, 3.5 parts by weight of sulphur, 1 part
by weight of diphenylguanidine. These are mixed together in any suitable way, such as by milling, and then
vulcanized or cured in the usual molds or otherwise under
heat corresponding to a steam pressure of about 40 lbs.
per square inch. This vulcanizing temperature should be
continued until the compound is suitably vulcanized,
which requires from 10 to 20 minutes depending upon the
shape and size of the articles being vulcanized."
The patent contains twelve claims. Those mainly relied on are: the fourth, for "The process of treating
rubber or similar materials which comprises combining
with the rubber compound diphenylguanidine"; the
eighth, for " The process of treating rubber or similar materials, which comprises combining with the rubber compound a vulcanizing agent and diphenylguanidine "; and
the twelfth, for "A vulcanized compound of rubber or
similar material combined with a vulcanizing agent and
diphenylguanidine."
Vulcanizing is old and well known. Its present high
state of development represents an evolution of about 80

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

years. Practically all rubber must be vulcanized for commercial use. The amount of sulphur in the mixture is
comparatively small, as for instance 4 to 10 parts of sulphur to 100 parts of rubber. The remainder of the mixture may be all rubber or it may be partly rubber and
partly other ingredients, such as fillers and pigments, the
other ingredient used most widely being zinc oxide. In
the manufacture of automobile tires a considerable proportion of zinc-oxide is generally used. A very old and
well known proportion has been fifty parts of rubber,
forty-five parts of zinc oxide and five parts of sulphur
and is the one shown in the specification of the patent.
The mixture is "cured" by subjecting it to heat to make
the vulcanized rubber of commerce. Platen molds have
to be provided for giving the desired form to the rubber
vulcanized. Steam has to be supplied for heating the
molds and the rubber mix, during the "cure."
A "cure"
is the successful completion of the chemical union or vulcanization of the rubber with the sulphur. The fact of a
successful " cure" for practical purposes is established by
a simple and short method called the thumb and tooth
test. By this test, rubber chemists settle the fact and
determine by the resulting product the satisfactory quality of the stock or the mix for vulcanization and they become expert at it. If by this test the product is not well
united chemically, it is said to be "under cured " or "over
cured," and then the operator changes the ingredients or
the time of the process. When it is important to determine with greater exactness the tensile strength and degree of elasticity or other qualities of the product, a
special machine measure or test is used, but the thumb
and tooth test is the frequently used way of knowing a
cure and it is a satisfactory one for every day use in
business.
It has been long known that a "cure " can be hastened
by mixing with the ingredients a small quantity of what

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

is called an accelerator or vitalizer. Inorganic substances
like lime or litharge were originally employed as such, but
it was subsequently found that certain organic substances
were more powerful or more "active," as the term is, and
they came into more general use. The heat to which
the rubber mixed with sulphur is subjected has a deleterious effect upon the substance of the raw rubber, and
the longer the heating, the greater the injury. An accelerator, as it lessens the time of the cure, not only increases
the output of the equipment used but reduces the danger
of deterioration of the product. An accelerator thus improves the elasticity, tensile strength, and other desirable
commercial qualities of the finished product. It is not
fully understood what the vitalizing or catalytic action
of the accelerator is, but its existence and its results have
long been known.
The patentee in his specifications speaks of triphenylguanidine and compares its operation as an accelerator
with that guanidine, the -utility of which as an accelerator he claims to have discovered, called diphenylguanidine. Guanidines are a group of organic substances which
have become prominent and important in this quest for
useful accelerators. The monophenylguanidine and the
diphenylguanidine and the triphenylguanidine are closely
related chemically. Their long names, used to indicate
the variation in the component elements, have been shortened so that it is usual to refer to diphenylguanidine by
letters, as "D. P. G.," and the triphenylguanidine as
"T. P. G."
So closely do the chemical compositions of these two
resemble each other that the petitioner contends that the
patent is invalid because the utility of D. P. G. as an
accelerator was plainly indicated by general chemical
knowledge and did not involve patentable discovery after
T. P. G. had proven to be a good one for this purpose.
But we can not agree with this view. The catalytic ac-

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

369

Opinion of the Court.

tion of an accelerator can not be forecast by its chemical
composition, for such action is not understood and is not
known except by actual test.
The respondent attempts to show that the resulting
improvement in the rubber product by the use of diphenylguanidine was something different from that in
the use of other accelerators. The good results of the
use of diphenylguanidine are chiefly or wholly due to its
greater activity and the lessened time of the cure. The
expert evidence seems to show that T. P. G. as an accelerator develops the same desirable qualities, set forth on
behalf of respondent, in the vulcanized rubber as does
D. P. G., except that the cure of the latter is more rapid
with its to be expected advantages. Moreover, claims of
peculiar usefulness of D. P. G. in other than its" activity"
and speed as an accelerator, even if proven, could not
in any degree affect the issue in this case. If employment of D. P. G. as a useful accelerator was a discovery
by Weiss, prior to anyone else, Weiss, or his assignee, is
entitled to all the advantages that flow from that increased activity or from any other quality in its use as
such. Roberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150, 157; Stow v. Chicago, 104 U. S. 547, 550; Lovell Mfg. Co. v. Cary, 147
U. S. 623, 634.
It does not, on the other hand, give Weiss any more
right to appropriate D. P. G. as an accelerator because
he may have elaborated in his specifications other advantages from its use than if he had not mentioned them.
Nor, on the other hand, does it minimize or affect the
priority of completed discovery by some one else before
Weiss that the prior discoverer may not have perceived
and stated all the advantages of an earlier use of D. P. G.
.as an accelerator.
Judge Hough, of the Second Circuit, truly said, therefore, that this patent meant, condensed in one sentence:
"I claim the use of D. P. G. as an accelerator, because I
318"-28---24

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

was the first person who observed its efficacy for that purpose." Similarly, the examiner in the Patent Office who
allowed the patent said that Weiss' application was "no
more than a broad disclosure of the use of [D. P. G.]
without disclosing any details other than those usually
employed with accelerators of this class."
The patent in suit was applied for November 12, 1921,
and was granted March 28, 1922. Weiss had referred in
the specifications of this patent to another patent of his
which was applied for July 2, 1921, and granted July 11,
1922. This latter patent was for a process for making
D. P. G. in large or commercial quantities. In the application for that patent, the patentee pointed out that before his process was discovered D. P. G. could not be
made except in small quantities for chemical research because the cost was prohibitive. The validity of the Weiss
patent for a process in making diphenylguanidine is not
attacked. The new patented process by reason of the
lessened cost has resulted in the very great use of D. P. G.
for commercial purposes and has been very profitable.
But the purpose of securing the patent in suit and maintaining its validity is more ambitious. It -is not to protect and preserve the new process already being safely
enjoyed, but it is to prevent the use of D. P. G. as an
accelerator, however made by any process that may be
subsequently discovered. It is to enlarge a monopoly of
D. P. G. as an accelerator, and is thus in effect to discourage effort to find other and cheaper means of making it. What we have to decide here is not the priority
of discovery of the cheap process of making the accelerator D. P. G., which it is conceded Weiss invented, but
whether he was the first person to discover the efficacy of
D. P. G. as an accelerator, made by any process, cheap or
costly.

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

We feel it necessary to call attention to a lack of relevancy of Weiss' successful process patent in the case before us, because the majority opinion in the Circuit Court
of Appeals seems to us erroneously to have confused the
credit due to Weiss for the process patent, already conceded, with his right to his present claim of entire monopoly of the use of D. P. G. as an accelerator.
The issues and the evidence in this case can not be considered and discussed without reference to a paper read
by Dr. George Kratz, a rubber chemist, at the Philadelphia meeting of the American Chemical Society, between
the 2nd and the 6th of September, 1919. It was entitled
"The Action of Certain Organic Accelerators in the Vulcanization of Rubber," and was a review of the comparative excellence of a number of well-known and used accelerators, as well as that of D. P. G. with T. P. G., *in
which he found D. P. G. to be very much more active
than T. P. G. Then under an experimental part he described the kinds of rubber used, the proportions of rubber and sulphur in the mixture, and the manner in which
the accelerator was incorporated and the method of vulcanization. He said:
"The rubber used was good quality, first latex, pale
crepe, and the same lot was employed in all mixtures.
All mixtures were made under standard conditions; the
average time of each batch on the mill was 17.5 min. The
same proportion of rubber and sulphur-92.5 parts rubber, and 7.5 parts sulphur-was employed in each instance, but the amount of accelerator was varied, according tQ the conditions of the experiment.
"All the accelerators soluble in alcohol were dissolved
in the smallest quantity of this liquid and introduced into
the rubber in solution. Those not soluble-and this applied to the anhydroformaldehyde bodies only-were

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

ground to 100 mesh and added to the rubber with the sulphur. After mixing, the mixtures were allowed a recovery period of 24 hrs. before they were vulcanized. Vulcanization was carried on in a platen press of the usual
type."
"Table 1.-RELATIVE ACTIVITIEs-THIOUREA SERIES.
"Parts required to Equal one Part Aniline.
"Aniline ..........................
Urea ............................
Thiourea ........................
Monophenylthiourea ..............
Diphenylthiourea .................
Monophenylguanidine (a) .........
Diphenylguanidine (Sym.) ........
Triphenylguanidine. :.............

1.000
0.250
0.300
0.450
0.850
0.075
0.075
0.500"

The activities of the various substances were compared
in the mixture previously mentioned-92.5 parts of rubber and 7.5 parts of sulphur-taking as a standard the
effect obtained with one part of aniline, vulcanized for
90 min. at 148' C. The amounts of various substances
i4 the urea series required to effect the same degree of
vulcanization as obtained with one part of aniline are
shown in Table 1.
The paper thus shows that the activity and superiority
of D. P. G. as an accelerator over T. P. G. is approximately as 7 is to 1.
In the answer to the bill in this case, the Kratz paper
was set up as a defense, but although read before September 6th, 1919, it was not published until April, 1920.
Under § 4886, Revised Statutes, a person who claims
to have invented any patentable improvement, is not to
be denied a patent because of any printed publication
subsequent to his discovery, unless there was publication
or public use or sale more than two years prior to his
application. Kratz's article was not printed until less

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

than two years before Weiss' application for a patent in
November, 1921, and -therefore the paper could not be
used as a basis for defense against his patent, if his discovery was earlier than the publication. It nevertheless
plays a very important part in understanding the facts
in this case.
The main and only issue here is divided, by reason of
the evidence and the lines of argument pursued, into two
parts. The first is the effect of that part of it devoted to
Weiss' discovery and his reduction to practice. The second is that part devoted to Kratz's discovery and his
reduction to practice.
First. It is contended by the petitioner that the file
wrapper and evidence show, that the patent was secured
by false evidence and is not entitled to the presumption
of validity which ordinarly accompanies the grant. The
examiner in the Patent Office three times rejected the
Weiss application, the third time by a reference to the
Kratz paper. The hearing on that reference was exparte. The third rejection was followed by acquiescence
by the examiner because of two affidavits, one by Weiss
and one by -his fellow chemist Daniels, who claimed to
have been with him at the time in the laboratory of the
Republic Rubber Company of Youngstown. In these
final affidavits, Weiss had said that D. P. G. was produced
and actually used "in the vulcanization of rubber goods"
during the early part of the year 1919, and Daniels said,
"These tests were also carried out in the compounding
laboratory for the various departments of the Republic
Rubber Company at Youngstown, Ohio, and the accelerator proved to be highly efficient in the actual vulcanization of rubber goods, such as hose, tires, belts, valves and
other mechanical goods." It now appears, without contradiction, that the only rubber Weiss made during the
early part of the year 1919 from D. P. G. was test slabs
of rubber in which D. P. G. was the accelerator, and

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

that in fact neither he nor anybody in the Rubber Company had vulcanized rubber goods, as Daniels described
them, before the Kratz publication. But we do not think
this would invalidate the patent, for the reason that the
actual fact was that these test slabs of rubber with
D. P. G. if proven to be properly vulcanized, as the evidence seems to show, were a demonstration of the utility
of D. P. G. as an accelerator and were a completed and
demonstrated discovery constituting reduction to practice.
Production of rubber-goods for use or sale was not indispensable to the granting of the patent. Hence the affidavits, though perhaps reckless, were not the basis for it
or essentially material to its issue. The reasonable presumption of validity furnished by the grant of the patent
therefore would not seem to be destroyed.
Then it is claimed that the reference to the Kratz
paper, which was not attacked by the applicant for its
insufficiency as a reference under § 4886 of the Revised
Statutes, should be treated as equivalent to a prior patent, the priority of which could only be overcome by
evidence eliminating all reasonable doubt. The Barbed
Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275; Deeringv. Winona Harvester
Works, 155 U. S. 286, 300; Clark Thread Company v.
Willimantic Linen Company, 140 U. S. 481, 489. But
the Kratz paper was not a prior patent, and while it may
be that other circumstances such as a reference to a
publication made before the application for the patent
may have the effect to require the same convincing proof
of earlier discovery to avoid its effect (Westinghouse, etc.
Co. v. Catskill, etc. Co., 121 Fed. 831, 834; New England
Motor Co. v. Sturtevant Co., 150 Fed. 131, 137; Wendell
v. American Laundry Machinery Co., 248 Fed. 698, 700),
we do not think that the mere failure to invite the attention of the examiner to the defect of the reference under
§ 4886, Revised Statutes, calls for the strict rule of proof

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

to avoid the reference. This conclusion keeps the burden
of proof on the defendant in attacking the patent on the
ground of a prior use.
It is also claimed that because the trial court in this
cause found, after hearing the witnesses, the weight to be
with the petitioner and against Weiss, assignor of respondent, its conclusions of fact, except for manifest
error, are to be treated as unassailable. Adamson v. Gillilaid, 242 U. S. 350, 353; Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S.
631; Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S. 512; Tilghman v.
Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 149; and Mason v. United States,
260 U. S. 545, 556. We do not think that this rule applies in the case before us, at least to its full extent, first,
for the reason that the Circuit Court of Appeals, having
considered all the evidence upon which the trial judge
reached his conclusion, declined to approve of his findings,
and second, because in the National Aniline & Chemical
Co. case, which is in conflict with the case here, the trial
judge reached a different conclusion on the same issue and
the same evidence which we have here. Thomson Spot
Welder Co. v. Ford Motor Co., 265 U. S. 445, 447. We
think, therefore, that the respondent is entitled under
these conditions to retain a presumption of validity for
his patent in the consideration of the case before us.
This brings us then to the evidence which Weiss adduces
in support of his first discovery of D. P. G. as an,
accelerator.
Morris L. Weiss received a degree in chemistry from the
Cooper Union of New York City late in 1917, and attended a course of chemical study in the Polytechnic of
Brooklyn. He entered the employ of the Republic Rubber Company of Youngstown, Ohio, in October, 1917.
That company manufactured rubber articles largely from
shoddy or reclaimed rubber. It was seeking to find an improved accelerator in T. P. G. and was building a plant

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

for its commercial use. Weiss, in addition to his usual
work in T. P. G., became interested, in 1918 and 1919,
in the possibilities of the use of D. P. G. as an accelerator,
which he had inquired into because it was mentioned with
T. P. G. among the guanidines in a text book of chemistry
which he had read. He was required by the rules of the
company to enter his experiments in a book called the "X
Book," kept for the purpose. During the term of his
employment, prior to September 6, 1919 (the date of
Kratz's reading his paper), this X Book showed three
dated and recorded experiments with D. P. G. as an accelerator. Two of these were with a shoddy mixture, and
there is doubt whether they showed the marked superiority
of D. P. G. over T. P. G., as Weiss in another case seems
to have admitted. But there was another test, with pure
rubber, recorded in the X Book, of successful vulcanization by D. P. G., the date of which is in dispute. It was
as follows:
Number X 2034
Made for Accelerator tests-E
50
D.P.G.
1
Sulphur
4
Zinc
43
M. G.O.
2
Cure
Stretch
Strength
Set
Date

100
20/30
14
3000
1/2

2. 10. 19

As it appears now, the date is February 10, 1919. Weiss
does not deny that the first figure of the date has been
changed, but says that it was probably changed because it

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

was made originally by mistake as a" 1," as on January 10,
1919, when it ought to have been as a" 2," as in February,
and the change was only to make it one month later. It
is contended on the other side, and it was testified by an
expert on handwriting, and the District Judge so held,
that the change was made from 9-10-19 to 2-10-19, which
would carry the original and correct date of this test to
the later date of September 10, 1919, or three or four days
later than the reading of the paper by Dr. Kratz to the
American Chemical Society, and after Weiss had been informed by his colleague Daniels of Kratz's blackboard
statement of the results of his discoveries. Weiss says
he made other tests between the first successful one and
the reading of the Kratz paper, but they are not recorded
under specific dates, nor are they in regular order. There
is a record of many tests after the Kratz paper, but none
others are shown to be before it except by Weiss' and
Daniels' unassisted memory.
Then, it is said he did not claim discovery until his
application for this patent in November, 1921, while in
an application for employment as a chemist at another
rubber company in March, 1920, he did claim credit for
the new process in commercially making D. P. G., but he
attributed its importance to the revelation of the Kratz
paper. His explanation is that he then supposed that
accelerators were not patentable and he was absorbed in
cheapening the production of D. P. G.
Other circumstances are detailed at length in the brief
of counsel to show that Weiss' real knowledge of the use
of D. P. G. as an accelerator was prompted by Kratz's
paper and could not be independent discovery on his part
before his hearing of and reading it. But after full consideration of all the doubt-giving circumstances, we do
not think that the attack on Weiss's proof of February 10,
1919, as the date when he first discovered by a completed

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

experiment the successful use of D. P. G. as an accelerator
in making rubber, has overcome the evidence given to
support it and the presumption of its correctness from the
patent itself.
Second. Kratz's discovery.-Dr. Kratz had been engaged in the chemistry of rubber and in its manufacture
for more than seven years. He read his paper on D. P. G.
and other accelerators in September, 1919. He had been
employed as a chemist with the Diamond and Goodrich
Companies, and, subsequently, with the Norwalk Tire
and Rubber Co. of Connecticut, for several years, and
after April, 1917, with the Falls Rubber Company, of
Cuyahoga Falls, near Akron, Ohio. He had directed his
efforts to the subject of vulcanization almost exclusively
and was intimately familiar with the commercial practice
therein. His first work with accelerators was as research
chemist in 1913. On April 1, 1914, he went with the
Norwalk Company in the capacity of chemist, and in
April, 1917, he became chief chemist of the Falls Rubber
Company.
In 1916, while with the Norwalk Company, Kratz prepared D. P. G. and demonstrated its utility as a rubber
accelerator by making test slabs of vulcanized or cured
rubber with its use. Every time that he produced such a
slab he recorded his test in cards which he left with the
Norwalk Company, and kept a duplicate of his own. By
these tests he arrived at figures representing the degree
of superiority of D. P. G. over T. P. G. and other known
accelerators, so that he could determine exactly how much
D. P. G. it would be necessary to use to produce the same
accelerating effect as would be produced by a larger
amount of T. P. G., or of other accelerators, in the same
time. This work was known to, and was participated in
by, his associate in the Norwalk Company, his immediate
superior and the chief chemist of the Company, Dr. Rus-

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

sell, who fully confirms Kratz's records and statement.
This work was finally recorded in a carefully prepared
contemporaneous report which Kratz left in the files of
the Norwalk Company, and which is now produced by
Dr. Russell in evidence before us. When Kratz left the
Norwalk Company to go to the Falls Rubber Company,
he took with him his record for his use in his future work,
so that there are two records of the same thing. The
report in 1916 was as follows:
"XI/1/16
G. D. K.
Relative Catalytic Effect of Compounds Related to
Sulpho Carbaninide.
"The following formula was used to try out the activity
of various substances more or less closely related to sulphocarbaninide:
W hite Para ........................
100
Zinc oxide .........................
100
Sulphur ...........................
5
"The following effects were recorded and, in cases
where an acceleration was produced, the amounts required
to give a cure in one hour equal to the cure produced
by 3% of S-Carb, were as follows [in the first column]:

"Aniline ...........
Di phenyl thio urea...
Mono phenyl thio urea.
Thio urea ............
Tri phenyl guanidine..
Di phenyl guanidine...
Urea ................

3.50%
3.0%
1. 5%
1.0%
1.75%
0. 25%
0. 33%"

[As shown in
Chemical Society
Paper, Sept., 1919
3.5
2. 975
1.575
1.050
1.750
0. 262
0.875]

These results were confirmed by Kratz at the Falls
Rubber Company in 1918, and 1919, and were reported

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

in his paper at the Chemical meeting in September of
1919 as shown in the second column above, multiplied
by 3.5 in order to put them on the same basis.
These values were determined by Kratz in some eight
or nine tests, in 1916, with each of the substances named,
for which test slabs were made in each instance, and the
series was extended until the desired result was obtained.
The first substance is aniline and the second is thio
(diphenylthiourea). These substances were generally
known and widely used as accelerators and therefore were
used as standards of comparison. They show that Kratz's
tests taught him in 1916 that D. P. G. was seven times as
strong and as active as T. P. G. The report to the Norwalk Company also shows two different formulas by which
Kratz made his own D. P. G. in 1916.
In the fall of 1917, when Kratz was chief chemist of
the Falls Company, he received a special order for 1,000
inner tubes for automobile tires. In filling three hundred tubes of this order of 1,000 tubes, which were made
under Kratz's personal supervision-for he had then become chief chemist of the Falls Company-he used
D. P. G. as an accelerator.
A little later, in 1918 and 1919, Kratz conducted at the
Falls plant a series of tests with D. P. G. closely paralleling the series of tests which he had made in 1916 at the
Norwalk plant and confirming those already reported as
above. At Norwalk he had used mostly zinc oxide as part
of the rubber mix, and he desired to verify the results
obtained in tests of the same accelerators in other compounds of rubber with other than zinc oxide. All this
was part of the preparation of his paper on accelerators
to be read before the 1919 meeting of the American
Chemical Society. The year before, he had attended the
1918 meeting of the Society expecting to hear the subject
discussed, but nothing was said, and so he and his assist-

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

ant, Flower, gathered their material for a paper at the
next meeting. That paper as read covered much more
than the mere demonstration of the utility of D. P. G. as
an accelerator. It dealt with a number of other accelerators also. The authenticity and reliability of Dr. Kratz's
testimony about them is not questioned in this record.
It is not too much to say that the report of Dr. Kratz's
results made a great impression upon the rubber chemists
of the country.
The only lack of corroboration of Kratz and the only
challenge to his testimony of fact in this case is in reference to his account of sending to a customer the 300 inner
tubes for automobile tires accelerated by D. P. G. He
says that they were sent to the purchaser whose name
he gives and that they proved to be satisfactory, as he
knew by having tagged them and having received approval of the whole lot by the purchaser. He says that
this was a special order; that he had at the time a small
supply of D. P. G. which he himself had made; that
these 300 tubes exhausted his supply, and that in filling
the remainder another accelerator was used. This sale
and the use of D. P. G. as an accelerator took place in
August, 1917, as shown by the memoranda that Kratz
produces: The record of the shipment of the 1,000 tubes,
the memorandum shipping order by Kratz and the 0. K.
by the President of the Falls Company are introduced.
Kratz says he did not tell anyone of his use of D. P. G.
in these 300 tubes. This is urged by respondent as a
reason for discrediting it. Were this an isolated instance
not taken out of the history of all of Kratz's relation to
accelerators and to D. P. G., it might reasonably give rise
to such question. But the undoubted fact that Kratz had
demonstrated the utility of D. P. G. in his eight or nine
tests in 1916 at Norwalk, and the corroboration of Dr.
Russell as to his work there, and the memorandum which

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

he had taken with him of the tests and of the report, to
the Falls Rubber Company, and, indeed, the reflexive corroboration of his paper at Philadelphia, show undoubtedly that he knew the excellence of D. P. G. as an accelerator, and tend to confirm his account as to the 300 tube
sale. It was not unnatural that with a small amount of
D. P. G. he should try it in a special order of this kind
from which he might confirm the conclusion he had
already reached. The effort to disprove it was vague and
inconclusive, which, it is only fair to say, was to be expected five years after the event.
Kratz was not seeking a patent. He inferred, with reason, that D. P. G. would not make a successful business
accelerator because of its then cost. He is wholly disinterested pecuniarily in the result of this case. The fact
that he is the only witness is not fatal or any reason for
denying the weight of his testimony in connection with
other circumstances. Reed v. Cutter, 1 Story, 590, Fed.
Cas. No. 11,645, 20 Fed. Cas. 435; Coffin v. Ogden, 18
Wall. 120; Egbert v. Lippmann, 104 U. S. 333.
But even if we ignore this evidence of Kratz's actual
use of D. P. G. in these rubber inner tubes which were
sold, what he did at Norwalk, supported by the evidence
of Dr. Russell, his chief, and by the indubitable records
that are not challenged, leaves no doubt in our minds that
he did discover in 1916 the strength of D. P. G. as an
accelerator as compared with the then known accelerators,
and that he then demonstrated it by a reduction of it to
practice in production of cured or vulcanized rubber.
This constitutes priority in this case. It was not followed by commercial use thereafter, because of the then
cost of D. P. G. But this patent is for the mere discovery
and application in the making of rubber of a particular
accelerator. It was the fact that it would work with great
activity as an accelerator that was the discovery, and

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

that was all, and the necessary reduction to use is shown
by instances making clear that it did so work, and was a
completed discovery. Bedford v. Hunt, 1 Mason 302,
Fed. Cas. No. 1217, 3 Fed. Cas. 37; Reed v. Cutter,
supra; Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477; Coffin v.
Ogden, supra.
It is said that these tests of Kratz were mere abandoned
laboratory experiments. There was no abandonment in
the sense that Kratz had given up what he was seeking
for in demonstrating a new and effective accelerator in
D. P. G. If he had been applying for a patent for the
discovery, he clearly could have maintained proof of a
reduction to practice. A process is reduced to practice
when it is successfully performed. A machine is reduced
to practice when it is assembled, adjusted and used. A
manufacture is reduced to practice when it is completely
manufactured. A composition of matter is reduced to
practice when it is completely composed. Walker on
Patents, § 141a. Hunter v. Stikeman, 13 App. D. C.
214, 226; Mason v. Hepburn, 13 App. D. C. 86, 92; Lindemeyr v. Hoffman, 18 App. D. C. 1, 5; Roe v. Hanson, 19
App. D. C. 559, 564.
Nor were the tests of Kratz abandoned laboratory
experiments. If so, then the cure by Weiss, tested in
February, 1919, was of the same character and was not
of itself a reduction to use. Weiss showed his production of vulcanized rubber with D. P. G. in February, 1919,
only by a so-called laboratory experiment. He demonstrated the value of D. P. G. as an accelerator by exactly
the same kind of experiment as that which Kratz had
used two years before. Weiss founded his claim on the
cured slab of rubber which had been vulcanized with
D. P. G., and this Kratz had done two years earlier with
slabs of the same kind and composition deposited in the
same way in a platen mold.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Kratz's method of testing his rubber slabs is criticized.
As already said, it is the method known as the thumb
and tooth test. This is not so exact a method in determinifig all the qualities that a test machine would show
in the product, but it is, as already said, one very generally used for practical purposes in factories in determining
that the vulcanization or cure is complete. It was the
one by the use of which Kratz disclosed and demonstrated to the rubber chemists of the country who listened
to him in September, 1919, that D. P. G. was an accelerator and how powerful it was as compared with others,
and thereby revolutionized knowledge in the art, as the
evidence abundantly shows, and as Weiss himself asserted
in his application for employment in 1920. It is true
that, in the test by Weiss of February 10, 1919, the
details of tensile strength and time of cure and elasticity were disclosed by machine test, with more particularity, but the speed of the cure and the "activity" of
D. P. G., and the fact of the cure, were clearly shown by
the simpler test.
It is a mistake to assume that. reduction to use must
necessarily be a commercial use. If Kratz discovered
and completed, as we are convinced that he did, the first
use of D. P. G. as an accelerator in making vulcanized
rubber, he does not lose his right to use this discovery
when he chooses to do so, for scientific purposes or purposes of publication, because he does not subsequently
sell the rubber thus vulcanized, or use his discovery in
trade, or does not apply for a patent for it. It is hot an
abandoned experiment because he confines his use of the
rubber thus produced to his laboratory or to his lecture
room. It is doubtless true that Kratz, by his course in
respect to his discovery as to the use of D. P. G., has
abandoned any claim as against the public for a patent,
but that is a very different thing from saying that it

CORONA CO. v. DOVAN CORP.
358

Opinion of the Court.

was abandoned as against a subsequent discoverer or
patentee.
The conclusion we reach then is that, so far as this
record shows, the first discovery that D. P. G. was a
useful accelerator of the vulcanization of rubber was made
by George Kratz and not by Weiss.
We come then to the question of the validity of Claims
1, 5 and 9 of the patent, which seek to appropriate to
the patentee the process of treating rubber by combining
with the rubber compound "a disubstituted guanidine."
Now the class of disubstituted guanidines includes not
only D. P .G. but all other derivatives of guanidine in
which two of the hydrogen atoms of the guanadine nucleus have been substituted by other groups. The fact
that disubstituted guanidines have been used as accelerators appeared in an article published by one Du Bosc, July
15, 1919, a fact which would defeat the claims applied for
November 24, 1921. Moreover, the experts show that
there are between fifty and one hundred substances which
answer this description, of which there is quite a number
that are not accelerators at all. Weiss could certainly not
claim the entire group of such compounds. He makes no
showing that there is any general quality common to disubstituted guanidines which makes them all effective as
accelerators. Claims for their exclusive use cannot therefore be sustained. This is shown by the decision of this
Court in the Incandescent Lamp Patent, 159 U. S. 465,
where the Court said, at page 475:
"If, as before observed, there were some general quality, running through the whole fibrous and textile kingdom, which distinguished it from every other, and gave
it a peculiar fitness for the particular purpose, the man
who discovered such quality might justly be entitled to
a patent; but that is not the case here."
Reversed.
318"-28--25

