OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

276 U. S.

authority to make determinations includes the power to
make erroneous decisions as well as correct ones. Compare United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273,
278-280; Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147
U. S. 165; Kern River Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 147,
155; Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254, 262.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 600.

Argued January 11, 12, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. In § 2 of the Anti-Narcotic Act, as amended, which provides that
it shall be unlawful for "any person" to sell, etc., any of the drugs
specified in the first section except in pursuance of a written order
of the person to whom the article is sold, etc., on a form issued by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the words "any person"
include all persons and not merely those who by § 1 are required
to register and pay the tax. P. 340.
2. So construed, the provision is constitutional. P. 351.
3. The Act, as amended February 24, 1919, is a genuine taxing act.
P. 352.
4. The provision in question, being reasonably adapted to enforcement of the tax, is not an undue invasion of the police power of the
States; and an incidental motive to discourage harmful uses of the
drugs taxed would not make it so. P. 353.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals relative to the conviction of Nigro for selling
morphine without a written order from the purchaser on
an official form.

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES
332

Argument for Nigro.

Mr. Win. G. Lynch, with whom Mr. Harvey Roney was
on the brief, for Nigro.
Congress intended that those persons who came within
the classes named and defined should be required to register and pay the special tax, and none other.
If this construction be correct, then, if § 2 be construed
as including all persons in the United States, it is unconstitutional under the doctrine laid down in United
States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394. That case and
this are parallel, at least insofar as the principle is concerned, that the Harrison Narcotic Act is a revenue
measure and can only be applied to those who are required to register and pay the special tax. It is only
from those persons that the Government can derive any
revenue by means of registration, and the only constitutional authority which Congress has-is to enact such a
law for revenue. Wong Sing v. United States, 260
U. S. 18.
The statute, as said in the Jin Fuey Moy case, does not
purport to be in execution of any treaty. If it did, then,
as this Court there remarked, another grave question
would arise. Doremus v. United States,'249 U. S. 86.
The Doremus case arose under the original Act and is
not applicable to the first section of that Act as amended
by the Act of February 24, 1919. Under the amended
Act only certain persons are allowed or required to register, and only such persons are penalized for doing any of
the things in relation to the drugs which would require
them to register, and if § 2 is construed to apply to all
persons, then it goes beyond § 1 as amended, and it cannot
assist in the collection of the revenue. The provision in
§ 2, that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall cause
suitable forms to be prepared, &c., and the provision that
no collector shall sell any such forms to any person other

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Nigro.

276 U. S.

than a person who has registered and paid the special tax
as required by § 1, and the provision that it shall be unlawful for any person to obtain by means of said order
forms any of the aforesaid drugs for any purpose other
than the use, sale or distribution thereof by him in the
conduct of a lawful business, and the provision that no
sales can be made except upon order forms, or upon a
physican's prescriptions, or to certain governments
purchasing them for the health service, army, navy, etc.,
show plainly that the purpose of Congress in enacting
§ 2 was to confine the drugs to their use as medicine.
When the restrictions and conditions Congress attached
to the sale and distribution of the drugs under § 2 are
carefully considered, it is clearly seen that Congress had
in mind the stamping out of drug addiction, and thereby
to subserve the health and general welfare of the people
of the United States. If § 2 covers all persons within the
United States, then it was not merely incident to the
raising and protection of the revenue, because all persons
within the United States were not required to pay it;
and unless it is restricted to those who are required to
pay it, then, as to all other persons, it is necessarily
unconstitutional and void.
If Congress by § 2 intended only to aid the collection of the revenue, why would it not permit persons who
had not registered to procure order forms and purchase
the drugs upon them, or upon a physician's prescription?
By limiting and conditioning the sale of the drugs as it
did, and limiting the use of the drugs to medicine, it is
manifest that the moral rather than the revenue end was
in view.
The public health and morals are subjects reserved to
the several States and to the people, as provided by the
Tenth Amendment. United States v. Daugherty, 269
U. S. 360; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Child

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Argument for the United States.

Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S.
44; Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5; United States v.
One Ford Coupe, 272 U. S. 321, 350.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. 0. R.
Luhring, Assistant Attorney General, and Harry S.
Ridgely, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on
the brief, for the United States.
The prohibition contained in § 2 of the Narcotic Act
against selling, bartering, exchanging, or giving away
drugs, except in pursuance of an order form, is not limited to persons required to register, but applies to "any
person."
As the Act was originally enacted in 1914, it contained
no stamp tax provision. The only taxes prescribed were
the occupation taxes on importers and dealers. It required every person selling or dealing in the drug, without
regard to any stamp tax or stamped package, to register
and pay the occupation tax, and the words "any person"
in the first sentence of § 2 as originally enacted clearly
provided that every person selling the drug should exact
the order form from the purchaser without regard to
whether or not the vendor was in fact registered: The
stamp tax provisions of § 1 were added by the Revenue
Act of 1918, and the registration and occupation tax provisions in § 1 were then amended so as to provide that
only those who deal at wholesale or retail in- or from
original stamped packages are required to register and
pay the dealer's occupation tax. For the first time there
were created two classes of dealers--those who sell in or
from stamped packages and are required to register and
pay the occupation tax, and those who sell only in or from
unstamped packages, every sale by whom is a violation
of the stamp-tax provisions, and who are not required to
register.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

276 U. S.

No change was made in § 2, and there is no reason to
believe that Congress intended that a restricted meaning
should be given to it as a result of the amendments to
§ 1.
Prior to the amendment of 1918, the words "any person " in § 2 had been literally construed to apply to sales
by any person W~hether registered or not. Fyke v. United
States, 254 Fed. 225. Section 2 had been so generally
applied in other cases. When overhauling the Harrison
Act by the amendments of 1918, Congress made no
change in § 2. It should be presumed to have acquiesced
in the construction which had been placed upon it.
Coleman v. United States, 3 F. (2d) 243; United States v.
Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394.
The purpose of the order-form provisions of the Act
was to keep the traffic aboveboard and enable the United
States to observe all transactions in drugs. Looked at
as an aid to enforcement of the two tax provisions of the
statute, one imposing an occupation tax and the other a
stamp tax, the purpose of the Act is defeated if a purchaser of drugs from an unregistered dealer is not required to furnish the prescribed order form.
Making it incumbent on the vendor, whether registered or not, to exact a written order on the prescribed
form from the purchaser serves the purpose of the statute
in enabling public authorities to observe the disposition
of the drug by the purchaser and to enforce the registration, occu*ation tax, and stamp-tax provisions.
If Congress has power to require vendors to decline to
sell to anyone not producing a written order on a prescribed form, it has power to require those not registered,
as well as those registered, to follow this practice.
Section 2, broadly construed, is not unconstitutional.
The provisions imposing stamp taxes are valid. Alston
v. United States, 274 U. S. 289. Those involving occupa-

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

332

tion taxes are valid, and the provisions making it unlawful to purchase or sell unstamped drugs or to deal in
stamped drugs without registering or paying the occupation tax are clearly valid. The order form provisions of
§ 2 were sustained in United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.
86. United States v. Balint, 258 U. S. 250.
The Doremus case dealt with the statute as originally
enacted and sustained it as a revenue measure, although
the only tax imposed by it was an annual occupation tax
on purchasers, importers, and dealers of $1 each, and the
revenues derived were obviously nominal, and the Act
was attacked as not a genuine revenue measure. By the
amendments of 1918, this weakness of the Act was repaired. The occupation taxes were made substantial, and,
in addition, the stamp tax on the drugs at the rate of
one cent an ounce or any fraction thereof was added.
These tax provisions produce substantial revenue, and the
Act, as a whole, can be sustained as a genuine tax measure.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE

TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here by certificate of the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, and is intended to
submit to us, for answer, certain questions concerning
the validity and proper construction of the Anti-Narcotic
Act of December 17, 1914, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785, as amended
in the Revenue Act of 1918, February 24, 1919, § 1006,
c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1130.
The Circuit Court of Appeals bases its questions on
issues arising in its consideration on error of a judgment
of conviction on the second count of an indictment drawn
under § 2 of the Act. The count charged that one Frank
Nigro and one Roy Williams unlawfully sold to one A. L.
Raithel one ounce of morphine, not being sold in pursuance of a written order of A. L. Raithel on a form
318-28-----22

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

issued in blank for that purpose by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. Roy Williams was not apprehended. Frank Nigro. was tried and convicted, and sentence was imposed of five years' imprisonment at the
Leavenworth penitentiary. The Circuit Court of Appeals expressed the opinion that the case could not be
disposed of without determining the construction and
possibly the constitutionality of the first provision of § 2
of the Act, reading as follows:
"That it shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
barter, exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs
except in pursuance of a written order of the person to
whom such article is sold, bartered, exchanged, or given,
on a form to be issued in blank for that purpose by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue."
A summing up of the evidence, tending to show the sale
of an ounce of morphine by the defendants as charged in
the second count, is contained in the certificate by the
court.
The questions submitted for our consideration are as
follows:
QUESTION I.
Is the provision which is contained in the first sentence
of section 2 of the Act limited in its application to those
persons who by section 1 are required to register and pay
the tax
QUESTION II.
If a broader construction is given to said provision, is
the provision as so construed, constitutional?
If question I is answered in the affirmative, then we ask,
QUESTION

III.

Is it necessary for the Government in prosecuting under said provision, to allege and prove that defendant was
a person required by section I to register and pay the tax?

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

If question III is answered in the affirmative, then
we ask,
QUESTION IV.

Is the allegation that defendant made the sale not in
pursuance of a written order of the buyer on a form
issued in blank for that purpose by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue of the United States, sufficient to
charge that defendant was a person required to be registered and to pay the tax under section I?
The second question was invoked by what we said in
UnitedStates v. Daugherty, 269 U. S. 360, 362, as follows:
"The constitutionality of the Anti-Narcotic Act, touching which this Court so sharply divided in United States
v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, was not raised below and has
not been again considered. The doctrine approved in
Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Child Labor Tax
Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 67; and
Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5, may necessitate
a review of that question if hereafter properly presented."
In Alston v. United States, 274 U. S. 289, 294, the
question of the constitutionality of the Act Was sought
to be presented, but the case only involved the validity
of § 1 as amended in the Revenue Act of 1918. We held
that section valid because it imposed a stamp tax on
certain narcotic drugs, making it unlawful to purchase or
sell them except in or from original stamped packages,
which was plainly within the taxing power of Congress
and had no necessary connection with any other requirement of the Act which might subject it to reasonable
question. We said that § 1 did not absolutely prohibit buying or selling; that it produced a .substantial
revenue and contained nothing to indicate that by colorable use of taxation Congress was attempting to invade
the reserved powers of the States.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The present case relates to the validity of the second
section of the law; but, before considering this, we must
answer the first question and construe the meaning of
the first sentence of § 2 quoted above. The controversy
is whether the words "any person" in that sentence include all persons or apply only to persons who are required
to register and pay the tax under the first section of the
act.
We have put in the margin * a synopsis of the original
§ 1 of the Act of 1914, and of the same section as amended
*

The original first section required every person who produced,

sold, or gave away opium or coca leaves or any preparation thereof,
to register with the proper internal revenue collector his name and
place of business and to pay a special tax of a dollar a year, provided
that no employee of such person need either register or pay, nor
were officers of the General Government or of state or county or
municipal governments lawfully engaged in purchasing the drugs for
hospitals or prisons required to do so.
It was also provided that: "It shall be unlawful for any person
required to register under the terms of this Act to produce, import,
manufacture, compound, deal in, dispense, sell, distribute, or give
away any of the aforesaid drugs without having registered and paid
the special tax provided for in this section." The section provided
that the word "person" used in the Act should be construed to mean
and include a partnership, association or corporation as well as a
natural person.
By the Revenue Act of 1918, this first part of section one is made
to read as follows: "That on or before July 1 of each year every
person who imports, manufactures, produces, compounds, sells, deals
in, dispenses, or gives away opium or coca leaves, or any compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, or preparation thereof, shall register
with the collector of internal revenue of the district, his name or
style, place of business and place or places where such business is to
be carried on, and pay the special taxes hereinafter provided." A
special tax is then imposed on importers, manufacturers, producers
or compounders of the drugs of $24.00 per annum, on wholesale
dealers, $12.00, on retail dealers, $6.00, and on physicians entitled to
administer the drugs in their professional practice, $3.00. Employees
of all lawfully registered persons are exempted from tax. It is then
provided that: "It shall be unlawful for any person required to reg-

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

in the Revenue Act of 1918, and of some other sections
now in force, including § 2.
In interpreting the Act, we must assume that it is a
taxing measure, for otherwise it would be no law at all.
If it is a mere act for the purpose of regulating and restraining the purchase of the opiate and other drugs, it is
beyond the power of Congress and must be regarded as
invalid, just as the Child Labor Act of Congress was held
to be, in Bailey, Collector, v. Drexel FurnitureCompany,

259 U. S. 20. Everything in the construction of § 2 must
ister under the provisions of this Act to import, manufacture, produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, distribute, administer, or
give away any of the aforesaid drugs without having registered and
paid the special tax as imposed by this section." Then an excise revenue tax of one cent per ounce on the drug is imposed through stamps
to be affixed to the bottle or other container. It is made unlawful
to sell or dispense the drugs except in or from the original stamped
package and possession of the drug by any person is made prima
facie evidence of violation of the section. Possession of an original
stamped package containing the drug is made prima facie evidence of
liability to pay the tax. These presumptions are not to apply to a.
person obtaining the drug from a registered dealer in pursuance of a
prescription written for legitimate medical uses issued by a physician
or other registered practitioner and where the bottle or other container in which the drug is put up by the dealer bears the druggist's
name, his serial and registry number, the number, name and address
of the patient, as well as those of the writer of the prescription. The
presumptions are not to apply to the dispensing of the drug to a
patient by a registered physician, or practitioner in the course of his
professional practice for legitimate medical purposes where a record
is kept. All the provisions of existing law relating to the engraving,
sale and cancellation of tax-paid stamps provided for in the internal
revenue laws are made to apply to the stamps issued under the section. Unstamped packages found in possession of any person except
as provided in the section are subject to seizure. Importers, manufacturers and wholesale dealers are to keep books and records and
render monthly returns in relation to dealing with such drugs as are
required by regulation made by the Commissioner and approved by
the Secretary of the Treasury.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

be regarded as directed toward the collection of the taxes
imposed in § 1 and the prevention of evasion by persons
subject to the tax. If the words can not be read as reasonably serving such a purpose, § 2 can not be supported.
Section 2 of the Act of 1914 was not changed by the Revenue Act
of 1918. This section provides: "That it shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, barter, exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid
drugs except in pursuance of a written order of the person to whom
such article is sold, bartered, exchanged, or given, on a form to be
issued in blank for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. Every person who shall accept- any such order, and in
pursuance thereof, shall sell, barter, exchange, or give away any of
the aforesaid drugs, shall preserve such order for a period of two
years in such a way as to be readily accessible to inspection by any
officer, agent, or employee of the Treasury Department duly authorized for that purpose, and the State, Territorial, District, municipal,
and insular officials named in section five of this Act. Every person
who shall give an order as herein provided to any other person for
any of the aforesaid drugs shall, at or before the time of giving such
order, make or cause to be made a duplicate thereof on a form to be
issued in blank for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, and in case of the acceptance of such order, shall preserve
such duplicate for said period of two years in such a way as to be
readily accessible to inspection by the officers, agents, employees, and
officials hereinbefore mentioned." But § 2 is not to apply,
1. to dispensing by a registered physician in the course of his professional practice only, if he keep a record of all his dispensing
except what he dispenses in personal attendance upon a patient; or
2. to dispensing of the drug to a consumer by a registered dealer on
written prescription of a registered physican if dated on the day
it is signed, the dealer to keep record of such prescriptions for
inspection; or
3. to sale,, exportation, shipment, or delivery of the drug by any person within the country for exportation under regulations; or
4. to sale or giving away anyof the drug to any officer of the National Government or State, county or municipality lawfully
engaged in making purchases for hospitals or prisons.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue with the approval of the
Secretary of the. Treasury is to cause suitable forms to be prepared
for the purposes mentioned, to be distributed to tle collectors of

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

The importation, preparation and sale of the opiate,
or other like drugs, and their transportation and concealment in small packages, are exceedingly easy and make
the levy and collection of a tax thereon correspondingly
internal revenue for sale by them, to persons who have registered and
paid the special tax, and no collector is to sell any forms except to such
persons. The price of these forms is to be fixed by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue as approved by the Secretary of the Treasury,
but is not to exceed one dollar per hundred. When a collector shall
sell forms, he is to cause the name of the purchaser to be plainly
written or stamped on them before sale and delivery, and no person
other than such purchaser shall use the forms so stamped to procure
delivery or shipment of any such drug. It is made unlawful to obtain
by means of such forms any such drug for use, sale or distribution
of it, except in the conduct of a lawful business in the drug or in the
legitimate practice of a medical profession.
The third section provides for returns and records to be made by
registered persons.
The fourth section makes it unlawful for any non-registered person
who has not paid the tax to send, ship, or deliver to any person in
another State, except common carriers and employees of registered
persons.
Section 5 provides for official inspection of orders, prescriptions,
etc., and forbids a disclosure of information except for the enforcement of the Act.
Section 6 of the original Act was amended by the Revenue Act of
1918 and relates to minimum limitations upon strength of opium and
other drugs to come within statute, but dealers in preparations that
are less than minimum are to keep a record of the sale of such for
inspection.
By section 7, internal revenue laws as to assessment, collection,
remission and refund of internal revenue taxes are made applicable
to taxes under the Act so far as not inconsistent.
By section 8, it is made unlawful "for any person not registered"
under the Act, and who has not paid the special tax, to have in his
possession or under his control such drugs, and his thus having them
shall be presumptive evidence of a violation of this section, with the
usual exemptions of employees of registered persons, and of government officers having such possession for their official duties. The section directs that the exemptions need not be negatived in an informa-

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

difficult. More than this, use of the drug for other than
medicinal purposes leads to addiction and causes the addicts to resort to so much cunning, deceit and concealment
in the procurement and custody of the drug, and to be
willing to pay such high prices for it that, to be efficient,
a law for taxing it needs to make thorough provision for
preventing and discovering evasion of the tax-as by requiring that sales, purchases and other transactions in the
drug be so conducted and evidenced that any dealing in it
where the tax has not been paid, may be detected and
punished and that opportunity for successful evasion may
be lessened as far as may be possible.
The literal meaning of "any person," in the first line
of the first sentence of § 2, includes all persons within the
jurisdiction. The word " persons" is given expressly the
meaning of a partnership, association or corporation, as
well as that of a natural person. Why should it not be
given its ordinary comprehensive significance? The argument to the contrary in favor of limiting it to exclude all
but those who are required to register and pay the tax is
that it would be superfluous to include persons selling:
opium who are not registered, because they are denounced
as criminals by the first section for selling without registration.. That is no reason why they may not be included
under a second reasonable restriction enforceable by punishment. Of course such a restriction should be fairly
adapted to obstruct the successful accomplishment of the
main crime, or furnish means of detecting the guilty pertion or indictment and that the burden of proof is to be upon persons
claiming exemption.
Section 9 subjects any one violating or failing to comply with the
requirements of the Act to a fine of not more than $2,000 or imprisonment not more than five years or both.
Section 10 authorizes appointment of agents and others necessary
to enforce provisions of the Act and
Section 11 makes appropriation for carrying out the Act.

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

son, and not be a fruitless, useless inhibition only resulting in what is in effect a duplication of punishment for
substantially the same crime, as in the case of United
States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, 362.
It would seem to be admissible and wise, in a law seeking to impose taxes for the sale of an elusive subject, to
require conformity to a prescribed method of sale and
delivery calculated to disclose or make more difficult any
escape from the tax. If this may be done, any departure
from the steps enjoined may be punished, and added penalties may be fixed for successive omissions, but all for the
one ultimate purpose of making it difficult to sell opium
or other narcotics without registering or paying the
tax.
The reasonableness of such requirements is well illustrated in the many limitations which were imposed upon
the ancient freedom in the making and sale of distilled
spirits, to the end that the collection of the heavy tax on
the subject-matter might be successfully secured in spite
of the temptation to avoid the tax. The provision of § 2
making it an offense to sell unless the purchaser gives a
particular official form of order to the seller was enacted
with a like object. The sale without such an order thus
carries its illegality on its face. Its absence dispenses
with the necessity of sending to examine the list of those
registered to learn whether the seller is engaged in a legal
sale. The requirement that the official forms can only be
bought and obtained by one entitled to buy, whose name
shall be stamped on the order form, and that after the sale
the order form shall be recorded, effects a kind of registration of lawful purchasers, in addition to one of lawful
sellers, and keeps selling and buying on a plane where
evasion of the tax will be difficult.
There are persons who may lawfully have access to or
even custody of the drugs without registration. Thus
included among such persons are the employees of those

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

who have registered and paid the tax. If they were to
attempt to sell such drugs, the necessity for an order form
from the would-be purchaser would embarrass the illegal
sale, for the participants would hesitate to make a record
of the transaction. Thus the operation of § 2, in preventing an individual not a registered dealer or physician
from acquiring the drug other than by an order formn or a
prescription, is directly related to tax enforcement, because such drugs are not necessarily consumed by the purchaser but may be peddled or sold illegally. These order
form provisions constitute a needed check on illegal sales,
and they are distinctly helpful in the detection of any
attempted dealing in, or selling of, the drug free from
the tax.
Section 2 of the Act is the same as it was when originally passed in 1914. The construction put upon it before the amendment of § 1, by the Revenue Act of 1918;
must be the same now as before. Under § 1 in the original Act, the only provision to keep track of purchasers
was the order form provision of § 2, as it is now. Without it, unless it applied to those not required to register
or pay the tax, there was no restriction upon such persons,
whether illegal sellers or illegal purchasers, in the disposition and spread of the drug, except the simple punishment
for unregistered sellers in the first section, and there was
entire immunity from order requirements of the purchasers from illegal sales. We can not suppose that, considering the general language of § 2, any such result was
intended by Congress.
By the amendment of § 1, much higher occupation taxes
were imposed, and they vary in amount for producers and
manufacturers and for wholesale and retail dealers and
for physicians. More than that, an excise tax of one cent
per ounce of the drug is imposed and payment thereof is
to be evidenced by stamps attached to the bottle or box

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

containing the drug, and the sale of the drug from anything but a stamped bottle or container is punishable.
The provision for order forms is thus useful under the
amended section, and there is therefore still reason for
holding the provisions of § 2 to apply to all persons so as
to be helpful in promoting detection of evasion from the
added tax imposed under the new § 1. The two tax
provisions of that section would be much less effective if
a purchaser of drugs from an unregistered dealer is not
required to furnish an order form. The purchaser may
be himself one who should register, but has not done so,
or he may be dealing in and selling the drug on which the
stamp tax has not been paid, and it is just as important
that sales by an unregistered dealer should be punished,
unless made on a prescribed form, as that sales by registered dealers should be subject to penalty.
There is nothing in the language of the section itself
that would reduce the significance of the words "any person " from the meaning of " all persons " to that of those
persons only who are required to register and pay the
tax, as there was in United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241
U. S. 394, upon which the appellant relies much. In that
case, the defendant was indicted for conspiring to get
morphine into the possession of an unregistered person
for use by him as an addict and not for medical purposes.
The question was whether the possession conspired for
was within § 8 of the Act, declaring it unlawful for any
person who was not registered and had not paid the
special tax to have the drug in his possession. It was
held that § 8 applied only to persons required to register
under § 1 and pay the occupation tax. The language of
§ 8 is more restricted than § 2. It reads: "That it shall
be unlawful for any person not registered under the provisions of this Act, and who has not paid the special tax
provided for by this Act, to have in his possession or under

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

his control any of the aforesaid drugs." The words "any
person" in § 2 are not linked with those who have not
registered and have not paid the tax, but ought to do so,
as are the same words in § 8. The narrow construction of
§ 8 in the Jin Fuey Moy case was reached, in part certainly, because of the juxtaposition of the words. This
is shown by a more recent decision of this Court in United
States v. Wong Sing, 260 U. S. 18. In that case, Wong
Sing was indicted under the amendment, § 1006 of the
Revenue Act of 1918, for purchasing the drug not from
an original stamped package and not from a person who
was a registered dealer. It was objected that, under the
Jin Fuey Moy case, a person to be criminally liable under
§ 1006 must be of a class who must register and pay
taxes, but it was held that that section was not limited,
as § 8 was held to be.
In Fyke v. United States, 254 Fed. 225, the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit decided that the
proper construction of § 2, under the original Act of 1914,
made it applicable to sales by any person, whether registered or not. Speaking of the Act as it was before 1918,
the Court said:
"All sellers were members of the class required to register and pay the tax, under § 1, and the revenue derived
from sellers, as provided for by that section, could manifestly not be collected unless Congress had the power to,
and did in fact, punish the sale of the prohibited drugs by
all persons except when made in conformity to the act.
The necessity of prohibiting sales by unregistered persons
and of sales by registered persons, not complying with the
act, were of equal importance. If only the latter class
were subject to its penalties, all persons, by failing to
register, could sell with impunity, without paying the tax
or complying with the other requirements of the act.
"Section 1 punishes sales by persons who have neither
registered nor paid the tax. Section 2 punishes persons

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

who sell, not in pursuance of a written order of the person to whom the sale is made. The language of § 2 is
general, and does not restrict the prohibition to registered
sellers in terms. Indeed, the exception, lettered 'd,' applies to a class expressly excepted from registry and payment of the tax by § 1. This exception would seem to be
superfluous, if § 2 applied only to registered persons, since
the excepted class would not then be included in the class
against whom the penalties of the section are directed."
The exception "d" here referred to is that which requires no order form to be used by officers of the national,
state, county and municipal governments, in purchases for
certain governmental uses, and which would indicate that
such officers, who are not required to register, would, but
for this exception,; be covered by § 2.
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, in
Coleman v. United States, 3 F. (2d) 243, expressly found
that the first provision of § 2 was not intended to be
limited in its application to the persons required to register
under § 1.
United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, is said to be in
conflict with our view of the question before us. We do
not think so. Defendants there were indicted for a conspiracy to sell intoxicating liquors, without making a permanent record of the sale, in violation of § 10, Title II,
of the National Prohibition Act. That section provided
that no person should make, sell or transport intoxicating
liquor without making a permanent record of it, showing in detail the amount and kind of liquor dealt with,
the names of persons with whom dealt, and the time
and place of such dealing. The form of the records
was to be prescribed by the Commissioner and to be open
to inspection by him, his agent, or any peace officer of
the State. The defendants contended that the section applied only to those who under the Act were authorized
to sell liquor under a permit. The United States con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

tended that the section in its general negation applied
to any violator of the Act. We held with the defendants
that such a construction of § 10 imputed to Congress an
improbable incongruity, in wishing to add to the crime
of making, selling or transporting liquor a second offense
if the person committing it should fail to make a record
of his own wrong doing. It was pointed out that Congress had before it the previous revenue acts governing
distillers, rectifiers and brewers, requiring detailed records
of all transactions which were lawfully subject to governmental regulation as a condition of granting permits, and
that when Congress came to the Prohibition Act it
adopted the same system of permits; and the parliamentary history of § 10 showed that to secure records
from its permittees was its only purpose in that section.
The Katz case was really, therefore, decided because of
the incongruity that would result in an interpretation of
§ 10 as claimed by the Government. Here there is really
no such incongruity.
Section 2 of the Anti-Narcotic Act introduces into the
Act the feature of the required and stamped order form
to accompany each sale. It is to bear the name of the
purchaser, and is addressed to the seller, with other data.
Recorded as the law requires it to be, it constitutes a
registry of purchasers, as distinguished from that of
sellers. Congress intended not only to punish sales without registration under the first section, but also to punish
them without order forms from the purchaser to the
seller, as a means of making it difficult for the unregistered seller to carry through his unlawful sales to those
who could not get order forms. Thus an illegal unregistered seller might wish to clothe his actual unregistered
sales with order forms that would give the transaction a
specious appearance of legality. To punish him for this
misuse of an order form is not to punish him for not

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

Opinion of the Court.

recording his own crime. It is to punish him for an added
crime-that of deceiving others into the belief that the
sale is a lawful sale. There is no incongruity in increasing the criminal liability of the non-registered seller who
fails to use an order form in his sales, or who misuses it.
Both the registered and the non-registered seller are,
under our construction of the section, punished for not
using the order forms as the statute requires, or for misusing them. The order torm is not a mere record of a past
transaction-it is a certificate of legality of the transaction being carried on, or else it is a means of discovering
the illegality and is useful for the latter purpose. We
think the resemblance of the Katz case and this case is
superficial and that they are distinguishable.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the provision which
is contained in the first sentence of § 2 of the Act is not
limited in its application to those persons whb by § 1 are
required to register and pay the tax. We answer the first
question in the negative.
This brings us to the second question, which is"... is
the provision as so construed, constitutional?" It was
held to be constitutional in United S~ates v. Doremus,
249 U. S. 86, 94. In that case the validity of the AntiNarcotic Drug Act, as it was enacted, December 17, 1914,
38 Stat. 785, was under examination by this Court. The
inquiry was whether § 2, in making sales of the drugs
unlawful except to persons giving orders on forms issued
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to be preserved for official inspection, and forbidding any person
to obtain the drugs by means of such order forms for any
other purpose than use, sale or distribution in the conduct
of a lawful business, or in the legitimate practice of his
profession, bore a reasonable relation to the enforcement
of the tax provided by § 1 and did not exceed the power
of Congress. It was held that § 2 aimed to confine sales

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

to registered dealers, and to those dispensing the drugs as
physicians, and to those who come to dealers with legitimate prescriptions of physicians; that Congress, with full
power over the subject, inserted these provisions in an
Act specifically providing for the raising of revenue. Considered of themselves, the Court thought that they tended
to keep the traffic aboveboard and subject to inspection
by those authorized to collect the revenue; that they
tended to diminish the opportunity of unauthorized persons to obtain the drugs and sell them clandestinely without paying the tax imposed by the federal law. This
Court said in the Doremus case:
"This case well illustrates the possibility which may
have induced Congress to insert the provisions limiting
sales to registered dealers and requiring patients to obtain
these drugs. as a medicine from physicians or upon regular prescriptions. Ameris, being as the indictment charges
an addict, may not have used this great number of doses
for himself. He might sell some to others without paying
the tax, at least Congress may have deemed it wise to
prevent such possible dealings because of their effect
upon the collection of the revenue."
Referring to the same § 2, in United States v. Balint,
258 U. S. 250, 253; this Court said:
"It is very evident from a reading of it that the emphasis of the section is in securing a close supervision of
the business of dealing in these dangerous drugs by the
taxing officers of the Government and that it merely uses
a criminal penalty to secure recorded'evidence of the disposition of such drugs as a means of taxing and restraining the traffic."
Four members of the Court dissented in the Doremus
case, because of opinion that the court below had correctly held the Act of Congress, in so far as it embraced
the matters complained of, to be beyond its constitutional

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.

353

Opinion of the Court.

332

power, and that the statute, in § 2, was a mere pretext as
a tax measure and was in fact an attempt by Congress to
exercise the police power reserved to the States and to
regulate and restrict the sale and distribution of dangerous and noxious narcotic drugs. Since that time, this
Court has held that Congress by merely calling an Act a
taxing act can not make it a legitimate exercise of taxing
power under § 8 of Article I of the Federal Constitution,
if in fact the words of the act show clearly its real purpose is otherwise. Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20,
38. By the Revenue Act of 1918, the Anti-Narcotic Act
was amended so as to increase the taxes under § 1, making an occupation tax for a producer of narcotic drugs of
$24 a year, for a wholesale dealer, $12, for a retail dealer,
$6.00, and for a physician administering the narcotic,
$3.00. The amendment also imposes an excise tax of one
cent an ounce on the sale of the drug. Thus the income
from the tax for the Government becomes substantial.
Under the Narcotic Act, as now amended, the tax
amounts to about one million dollars a year, and since
the amendment in 1919 it has benefited the Treasury to
the extent of nearly nine million dollars. If there was
doubt as to the character of this Act-that it is not, as alleged, a subterfuge-it has been removed by the change
whereby what was a nominal tax before was made a substantial one. It is certainly a taxing act now as we held
in the Alston case.
It may be true that the provisions of the Act forbidding
all but registered dealers to obtain the order forms has
the incidental effect of making it more difficult for the
drug to reach those who have a normal and legitimate
use for it, by requirement of purchase through order
forms or by physician's prescription. But this effect,
due to the machinery of the Act, should not render the
order form provisions void as an infringement on state
318-28-----23

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

276 U. S.

police power where these provisions are genuinely calculated to sustain the revenue features. Section 2 was once
sustained by this Court some nine years ago, with more
formidable reason against it than now exists under the
amended statute. Its provisions have been enforced for
those years. Whatever doubts may have existed respecting the order form provisions of the Act have been
removed by the amendment made in 1919.
.We said in the Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20, 38:
"Taxes are occasionally imposed in the discretion of the
legislature on proper subjects with the primary motive
of obtaining revenue from them and with the incidental
motive of discouraging them by making their continuance
onerous. They do not lose their character as taxes because of the incidental motive."
In this case, the qualification of the right of a resident
of a State to buy and consume opium or other narcotic
without restraint by the Federal Government, is subject
to the power of Congress to lay a tax by way of excise on
its sale. Congress does not exceed its power if the object
is laying a tax and tie interference with lawful purchasers and users of the drug is reasonably adapted to
securing the payment of the tax. Nor does it render such
qualification or interference with the original state right
an invasion of it because it may incidentally discourage
some in the harmful use of the thing taxed. License Tax
Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 524;
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 60, 61; In re Kollock,
165 U. S. 526, 536.
This leads to an answer to the second question in the
affirmative, and makes it unnecessary for us to answer
the remaining third and fourth questions.

The separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

Nigro, not alleged to be registered as a dealer, was
charged with violating § 2 of the Harrison Anti-Narcotic

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.

332

McRYNOLDs,

J., dissenting.

Act by selling opium (whether in or from an original
stamped package does not appear) to Raithel, not a
dealer, without an order upon a form issued by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
It is maintained, first, that § 2 applies to all sales, including, of course, those made by one who is not registered, to a purchaser who cannot possibly secure an order
form; and, secondly, that so construed, it is constitutional.
Both propositions, I think, are wrong.
Section 1 of the Act imposes a definite tax (uniform for
each class) upon "every person " who imports, manufactures, produces, compounds, sells, deals in, dispenses, or
gives away opium; also a stamp tax of one cent per ounce
upon the drug. All who are subject to the tax are required to register; and the section further provides" It shall be unlawful for any person required to register
under the provisions of this Act to import, manufacture,
produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, distribute, administer, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs without
having registered and paid the special tax as imposed by
this section.
Section 2. declares"That it shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter,
exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs [opium,
&c.] except in pursuance of a written order of the person
to whom such article is sold, bartered, exchanged, or given,
on a form to be issued in blank for that purpose by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. ...
"The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall cause suitable forms to be prepared for the purposes above mentioned, and shall cause the same to be distributed to collectors of internal revenue for sale by them to those
persons who shall have registered and paid the special
tax as required by section one of this Act in their districts,
respectively; . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

276 U. S.

Obviously, no one who has not registered and paid the
special tax laid by § 1 can obtain "suitable forms."
Fair application of the principles of construction approved in United States v. Palmer,3 Wheaton 610; United
States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, and United States
v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354, should at least limit the words
"any person" in the first line of § 2 to those required to
register by § 1, which renders unlawful every sale by an
unregistered person, whether the purchaser possesses an
order blank or no. And it seems unreasonable to conclude
that the purpose of the next section was awkwardly to
state something already plainly declared.
The sale by Nigro was to one who could not obtain an
order blank. Only a small group-importers, manufacturers, dealers, etc.-can obtain these blanks. As construed by the United States, the statute prohibits all sales
except to those who are registered or hold physicians'
prescriptions-no others can buy lawfully. Admittedly,
the statute is valid only as a revenue measure. Any provision therein not appropriate to that end is beyond the
power of Congress.
I can discover no adequate ground for thinking Congress
could have supposed that collection of the prescribed tax
would be materially aided by requiring those who engage
in selling surreptitiously to consumers to do an impossible
thing-receive an order upon a blank which the purchaser
could not obtain. The plain intent is to ccntrol the traffic
within the States by preventing sales except to registered
persons and holders of prescriptions, and this amounts
to an attempted regulation of something reserved to the
States. The questioned inhibition of sales has no just
relation to the collection of the tax laid on dealers. The
suggestion to the contrary is fanciful. Although disguised, the real and primary purpose is not difficult to discover and it is strict limitation and regulation of the
traffic,

NIGRO v. UNITED STATES.
332

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

Whether, or how far, opium, tobacco, diamonds, silk,
etc., may be sold within their borders is primarily for the
States to decide; the Federal Government may not undertake direct regulation of such matters.
This Court said in United States v. Wong Sing, 260
U. S. 18, 21: " There could be no object in requiring a purchaser of the drugs to register, but it fulfilled the purpose
of the law to forbid a purchase 'except in the original
stamped package or from the original stamped package."'
The habit of smoking tobacco is often deleterious.
Many think it ought to be suppressed. The craving for
diamonds leads to extravagance and frequently to crime.
Silks are luxuries and their use abridges the demand for
cotton and wool. Those who sell tobacco, or diamonds, or
silks may be taxed by the United States. But, surely, a
provision in an act laying such a tax which limited sales
of cigars, cigarettes, jewels, or silks to some small class
alone authorized to secure official blanks would not be
proper or necessary in order to enforce collection. The
acceptance of such a doctrine would bring many purely
'local matters within the potential control of the Federal
Government. The admitted evils incident to the use of
opium cannot justify disregard of the powers "reserved to
the States respectively, or to the people."
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

concurs in these views.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.

Section 1 was originally enacted December 17, 1914,
c. 1, 38 Stat. 785. It was amended by the Revenue Act
of 1918 passed February 24, 1919, § 1006, c. 18, 40 Stat.
1057, 1130. It contains the following: "It shall be unlawful for any person required to register under the provisions of this Act to . . . sell . . . any of the aforesaid
drugs without having registered and paid the special tax
as imposed by this section."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

Section 2 appeared in its present form in the original
Act. The pertinent provision is: "It shall be unlawful
for any person to sell . . . any of the aforesaid drugs
except in pursuance of a written order of the person to
whom such article is sold . . . on a form to be issued in
blank for that purpose by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue." 38 Stat. 786.
The effect of these two provisions is to prohibit sale by
any person who has not registered and to permit sale by a
registered person upon a written blank issued by the
Commissioner. That conclusion is so plain that discussion
cannot affect it.
Question 1 should be answered Yes.
Question 2 need not be answered.
Question 3 should be answered Yes.
Question 4 should be answered No.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND concurs in

this opinion.

CORONA CORD TIRE COMPANY v. DOVAN
CHEMICAL CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 182.

Argued January 16, 17, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. Discovery that a change of ingredients in a process speeds the re-

sult, entitles the inventor to any other advantages flowing from
the substitution. P. 369.
2. The fact that a party was the first to discover and obtain a valid
patent for a process of producing a substance, held irrelevant to
the question whether he was the first discoverer of its utility as an
ingredient in another process. P. 370.
3. Under Rev. Stats. § 4886, a person is not to be denied a patent
because of a publication printed after his discovery and not more
than two years before his application. P. 372.
4. Invention of a process for vulcanizing rubber, and its reduction to
practice, may be established by proof of actual tests in which test

