INTERSTATE BUSSES CORP. v. BLODGETT. 245
Syllabus.

238

remanded with directions to reinstate so much of the district court's judgment as awarded to petitioner the amount
of the bond with interest, aggregating $33,492.50; interest
on that amount at the rate of 7% will be allowed from
September 22, 1925, the date of the district court's judgment; and the sum of $2,000 without interest will be
allowed as an attorney's fee.
Reversed.
INTERSTATE BUSSES CORPORATION v.
BLODGETT ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 197.

Argued January 19, 20, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. Where an application for an interlocutory injunction under Jud.
Code, § 266, has been denied by a court of three judges and the
bill is dismissed by that court on final hearing, the case is reviewable by direct appeal to this court. P. 249.
2. A state tax of one cent for each mile of highway traversed in the
State by any motor bus used in interstate commerce, the proceeds
of which are devoted to maintenance of public highways of the
State, is not repugnant to the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, when not unreasonable in amount or discriminatory against
interstate commerce. P. 249.
3. Such a charge, when reasonable in itself, is not to be deemed unreasonable because other taxes are imposed by the State on the
same taxpayer for the use of its highways, if he fails to show that
the aggregate charge is unreasonable. P. 251.
4. In addition to other taxes common to both classes, the owners of
motor buses operated in interstate commerce pay in Connecticut,
a tax of one cent for each mile of state highway traversed by each
vehicle, but the owners of such vehicles engaged in intrastate commerce pay instead a tax on their gross receipts, the proceeds of
both taxes being devoted to maintenance of highways. Held that
a party complaining of the mileage tax does not establish discrimination against interstate commerce by the mere difference of the

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Appellant.

276 U. S.

taxes, but must prove that in actual practice the tax complained
of falls with disproportionate economic weight upon him. P. 251.
5. Where relief from a state tax is sought upon the ground that it is
unconstitutional, and it is held valid, it may be assumed that the
complaining party will pay it, and the constitutional validity of
the consequences imposed by the statute in case of non-payment
need not be considered. P. 252.
19 F. (2d) 256, affirmed.

APPEAL from a final decree of the District Court of
three judges dismissing a bill to restrain tax officials of
Connecticut from levying a tax on the appellant based
on its use of the state highways for interstate transportation of passengers in motor buses.
Mr. Edward H. Kelly for appellant.
Interstate transportation by motor vehicle is singled
out for the imposition of a tax of one cent a mile. On
that ground alone, the statute must be held to be unconstitutional. Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434; Brimmer
v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 320; American Steel &
Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 90; Darnell v. Memphis,
208 U. S. 113.
The provision of Part II of Chapter 254 of the Laws of
1925, directing suspension of registration of a vehicle
whose owner is subject to the .provisions of Part II, also
effects a discrimination against interstate operators by
reason of the different remedies imposed for the collection
of the tax. Chalker v. Birmingham, 249 U. S. 526.
The provision for suspension of registration is invalid
for the reason that it is not permissible for the mere collection of a tax, to obstruct, embarrass or impede interstate commerce. Western Union v. Massachusetts, 125
U. S. 530; St. Louis & Southwestern R. R. v. Arkansas,
235 U. S. 350; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Western Union V.

INTERSTATE BUSSES CORP. v. BLODGETT. 247
245

Argument for Appellees.

Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; Allen v. Pullman, 191 U. S. 171;
Underwood v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113; Pullman Co. v.
Richardson, 261 U. S. 330.
A State has no right to demand the waiver of any right
or immunity guaranteed by the Constitution as a condition
of itself granting a privilege, immunity or license. Frost
v. California, 271 U. S. 583; Western Union v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 1.
In granting federal aid to the States in the construction of highways, Congress meant that such highways
shall be open to interstate commerce. Bush & Sons v.
Maloy, 267 U. S. 317. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.
610; and Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, distinguished.
Messrs. Benjamin W. Aling and S. Frederick Wetzler
were on the brief for appellees.
The tax is a charge for the privilege of using the roads
of the State; and when imposed upon those using the
roads in interstate commerce, does not thereby offend the
Commerce Clause. Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554; Kane
v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235
U. S. 610.
The Connecticut registration statute, when read in its
entirety, is, in its essence, a police measure; but since
there is included the imposition of fees and charges, creating a money yield, which is contemplated as exceeding the
cost of administration of the law, it partakes to that
limited and incidental extent of a revenue measure.
There is neither duplication nor superimposition of taxes.
Opinion of the Justices, 250 Mass. 591.
The appellant has not sustained the burden of proving
in this case the essential fact that the enforcement of
the act actually operates to prejudice interstate commerce. Hendrick v. Maryland, supra; Interstate Busses
Corp'n v. Holyoke St. Ry. Co., 273 U. S. 45.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Appellees.

276 U. S.

The purpose of such legislation, now nation-wide, is
to charge for the use and get reimbursement for damage,
and the policy is to classify vehicles, and vary the tax,
in accordance with the extent of such use and damage.
Kane v. New Jersey, 81 N. J. L. 594; Camas Stage Co. v.
Kozer, 104 Ore. 600; Ex parte Schuler, 167 Calif. 282;
Re Hoffert, 34 S. D. 271; State v. Kozer, 242 Pac. 621;
Dohs v. Holm, 152 Minn. 529; Westfalls etc. Co. v.
Chicago, 280 Ill. 318; Opinion of the Justices, 250 Mass.
591; Fisher Bros. v. Brown, 111 Ohio St. 602; Raymond
v. Holm, 206 N. W. 166; Jasnowski v. Dilworth, 191
Mich. 287.
The State may adjust its scheme of taxation to the
possibilities of greater or lesser use; and may, though it
is not obliged to, reduce the tax on the lesser use. Kane
v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160.
The statute does not create an unconstitutional discrimination against interstate commerce, because of the
difference in remedies for collection of the tax. Hess v.
Pawloski, 274 U. S. 352; Kane v. New Jersey, supra.
There is no violation of the Commerce Clause on the
ground that non-payment of the tax may result in suspension of registration of motor vehicles engaged in interstate commerce. Kane v. New Jersey, supra; Hendrick v. Maryland,supra.
Even though the suspension of registration provision
of § 3, Part II, be regarded as violating the Commerce
Clause, the rest of the statute is, nevertheless, unaffected.
Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286.
The Connecticut statute is not invalidated as a violation of the Commerce Clause, because of the Federal Post
Road and Highway Acts.
These laws do not take away from the State either its
duty or its rights regarding the care and preservation of
the highways. Morris v. Duby, 274 U. S. 135.

INTERSTATE BUSSES CORP. v. BLODGETT. 249
245

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellant, complainant below, is a Connecticut corporation engaged in the transportation of passengers in
motor buses, exclusively in interstate commerce, between
Connecticut and points in Massachusetts and Rhode
Island. The present suit was brought in the district court
for Connecticut to restrain appellees, tax officials of the
state, from levying a tax on appellant under a Connecticut
statute, Conn. Pub. Acts 1925, c. 254, on the ground that
the tax is an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Application to a court of three judges for an interlocutory injunction under Jud. Code § 266 was denied,
19 Fed. (2d) 256, and on final hearing the court dismissed
the bill on the merits. The application for the preliminary injunction having been pressed to a determination
before the court of three judges, the case is properly here
on direct appeal from the final decree of that court. Jud.
Code §§ 238, 266; Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388; Clark
v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554.
The appellant has already complied with the general
statutes of Connecticut requiring the registration of motor
vehicles. Part II § 1 of the act in question imposes a tax
of one cent for each mile of highway traversed by any
motor vehicle used in interstate commerce "as an excise
on the use of such highway." By Part II § 4 the proceeds of the tax are to be applied to the maintenance of
public highways in the state.
Appellant objects to the tax as an infringement of the
paramount power of Congress to regulate interstate
commerce or at least as a discrimination against that commerce. It is not denied that a state may impose a registration or license fee on those using motor vehicles in the
state, although engaged in interstate commerce, or that
the state may impose a reasonable charge for the use of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

its highways by motor vehicles so employed, Hendrick v.
Maryland, 235 U. S. 610; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S.
160; Clark v. Poor, supra, and there is no evidence that
the tax here is in itself an unreasonable charge for the
privilege. But it is said that the particular scheme of
taxation adopted by Connecticut imposes this tax in addition to statutory charges already made for the use of
the highways in interstate commerce, and both in purpose and in effect discriminates against appellant and in
favor of those operating motor vehicles in intrastate
commerce.
The state has adopted a system of financing its highway construction and maintenance under which about
80% of the cost is collected from fees for the registration
of motor vehicles and for operators' licenses, from taxes
on the sale of gasoline and from fines and penalties for
violations of the motor vehicle laws. The balance of the
cost is paid from general appropriations by the state legislature and a certain amount received under federal aid
legislation. Appellant, it is conceded, pays certain taxes
imposed alike on those engaged in intrastate and interstate commerce. These include a personal property tax
upon its motor cars used in the state, a registration or
license fee for each vehicle so used, and also, it is urged,
a tax of two cents a gallon on the sale of gasoline within
the state which in practice is absorbed by the consumer in
the purchase price.
But no mileage tax like that imposed by Part II § 1 is
levied upon those using motor vehicles in intrastate commerce. Instead, Part I, § § 2 and 3 of the act under discussion subject all companies engaged in intrastate motor
bus transportation to an excise of 3% of their gross receipts less such taxes as they have paid locally on their
"real and tangible personal estate." By Part I § 6 this excise is declared to be in lieu of all taxes on intangible personal property. Moreover, those who pay it are exempt

INTERSTATE BUSSES CORP. v. BLODGETT. 251
245

Opinion of the Court..

from the income tax of 2% imposed generally on corporations, including, apparently, the appellant. Conn. Gen.
Stat., c. 73, as amended. It, like the mileage tax, is
devoted to the maintenance of highways.
To show that the mileage tax is discriminatory appellant first points out the obvious differences between it
and the gross receipts tax and, secondly, relies on an uncontradicted allegation in the bill of complaint that, apart
from the mileage tax, it already contributes to the maintenance of the highways of the state in the same manner
and to the same extent as others in the payment of the
personal property tax, the license tax on buses and the
shifted gasoline tax.
The two statutes are complementary in the sense that
while both levy a tax on those engaged in carrying passengers for hire over state highways in motor vehicles, to
be expended for highway maintenance, one affects only
interstate and the other only intrastate commerce. Appellant plainly does not establish discrimination by showing merely that the two statutes are different in form or
adopt a different measure or method of assessment, or
that it is subject to three kinds of taxes while intrastate
carriers are subject only to two or to one. We cannot
say from a mere inspection of the statutes that the mileage tax is a substantially greater burden on appellant's
interstate business than is its correlative, the gross receipts tax, on comparable intrastate businesses. To gain
the relief for which it prays appellant is undeithe necessity of showing that in actual practice the tax of which it
complains falls with disproportionate economic weight on
it. General Tank Car Corp. v. Day, 270 U. S. 367;
Hendrick v. Maryland, supra; Interstate Busses Corp. v.
Holyoke Street Ry., 273 U. S. 45, 51. The record does
not show that it made any attempt to do so.
That appellant is already contributing to highway
maintenance is not in itself significant, for the state does

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

not exceed its constitutional power by imposing more
than one form of tax as a charge for the use of its highways in interstate commerce. It is for appellant to show
that the aggregate charge bears no reasonable relation to
the privilege granted.
It is further objected that the provision of the state
statute, Part II § 3, authorizing the suspension of registration as a remedy for the nonpayment of the mileage
tax, is invalid in any case, since payment of even a lawful
tax may not be enforced by the exclusion of the taxpayer
from interstate commerce. Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; St. Lotuis & Southwestern R. R. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350. And it is not
denied that appellees have threatened to invoke § 3
against appellant. But we need not consider here
whether the principle relied on goes so far as to prevent a
state from excluding from its highways a motor carrier
which refuses to pay a charge for their use. Compare
Hendrick v. Maryland, supra; Kane v. New Jersey, supra;
Clark v. Poor, supra. Here the relief sought presupposes
that the tax is unconstitutional. That point being determined against appellant we shall not assume that it will
persist in its refusal to pay the tax.
Objections' of less moment, which we have considered,
do not require comment.

Affirmed.

WESTERN UNION

TELEGRAPH
PRIESTER.

COMPANY

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS AND THE SUPREME
COURT OF ALABAMA
Nos. 183 and 189.

Argued January 17, 1928.-Decided February 20,
1928.

1. Where the supreme court of a State, in denying a petition for
certiorari to an intermediate appellate court, on the face of the
record did not pass upon the merits, the writ of certiorari from
this court is properly directed to the intermediate court. P. 258.

