UNITED STATES v. MANZI.
Counsel for Parties.

454

action on the part of both, which would bring about more
collisions than it would prevent. Belden v. Chase, 150
U. S. 674; The Highgate, 62 L. T. R. 841; S. C. 6 Asp.
Mar. Law Cases, 512."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in 146 is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed. In
173 the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
No. 146, reversed.
No. 173, affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MANZI.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 204.

Argued February 23, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

1. The widow of an alien who died after declaring his intention to
become a citizen but before completing his naturalization, must, in
order to obtain the statutory benefit of his declaration, file her
petition for naturalization not less than two nor more than seven
years after the date of her deceased husband's declaration of intention. P. 464.
2. Doubts concerning a grant of citizenship must be resolved against
the claimant. P. 467.
16 F. (2d) 884, reversed.

274 U. S. 730, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment dismissing
the petition of the United States for the cancellation of
a certificate of naturalization.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
No appearance for respondent.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

276 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Aniello Manzi filed his declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States October 15, 1913.
He died December 19, 1914. On October 4, 1924, his
widow Amalia, respondent herein, relying upon her husband's declaration, asked for citizenship. This was
granted February 3, 1925, and certificate issued over the
objection that her request came too late, more than seven
years having passed since the husband made his declaration.
January 9, 1926, the United States began this proceeding by a petition in the District Court for Rhode Island
to cancel her certificate upon the ground that it had been
illegally procured. That court dismissed the petition and
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. The
single question for our consideration is one of law:
Whether it was unnecessary for respondent to declare her
intention because her husband had declared his in 1913.
The Solicitor General maintains, and we think rightly,
that while a widow may have the benefit of her husband's
declaration, she must perfect her citizenship under the
restrictions specified for him, including the requirement
that request for naturalization must come not more than
seven years after such declaration. The intention of
Congress was to treat the action of the husband as though
taken by the widow herself.
The Act of June 29, 1906, "To establish a Bureau of
Immigration and Naturalization, and to provide for a
uniform rule for the naturalization of aliens throughout
the United States" (34 Stat. 596), definitely prescribes
the circumstances under which aliens may be naturalized.
Its requirements are much more stringent than those
found in former acts.

UNITED STATES v. MANZI.
463

Opinion of the Court.

Section 4, (Par. 1) directs that two years, at least, prior
to his admission, and after he has reached the age of
eighteen years, the alien shall declare on oath that it is
his bona fide intention to become a citizen, and then
directs"Second. Not less than two years nor more than seven
years after he has made such declaration of intention he
shall make and file, in duplicate, a petition in writing,
signed by the applicant in his own handwriting and duly
verified, in which petition such applicant shall state his
full name, his place of residence (by street and number,
if possible), his occupation, and, if possible, the date and
place of his birth; the place from which he emigrated,
and the date and place of his arrival in the United States,
and, if he entered through a port, the name of the vessel
on which he arrived; the time when and the place and
name of the court where he declared his intention to
become a citizen of the United States; if he is married
he shall state the name of his wife and, if possible, the
country of her nativity and her place of residence at the
time of the filing of his petition; and if he has children,
the name, date and place of birth and place of residence
of each child living at the time of the filing of his petition: Provided,That if he has filed his declaration before
the passage of this Act he shall not be required to sign
the petition in his own handwriting."
"Sixth. When any alien who had declared his intention
to become a citizen of the United States dies before he is
actually naturalized the widow and minor children of
such alien may, by complying with the other provisions
of this Act, be naturalized without making any declaration of intention."
"Sec. 27. That substantially the following forms shall
be used in the procedings to which they relate:
318*-28--30

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Declaration of Intention
(Invalid for all purposes seven years after the date
hereof.)"
The formula to be observed by a declarant is then set
forth.
Pertinent sections of the Revised Statutes, in effect
prior to 1906, provided"Sec. 2165. An alien may be admitted to become a
citizen of the United States in the following manner, and
not otherwise:
"First. He shall declare on oath, before a circuit or district court of the United States, or a district or supreme
court of the Territories, or a court of record of any of the
States having common-law jurisdiction, and a seal and
clerk, two years, at least, prior to his admission, that it is
bona fide his intention to become a citizen of the United
States, and to renounce forever all allegiance and fidelity
to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty, and,
particularly,* by name, to the prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty of which the alien may be at the time a citizen or subject."
"Sec. 2168. When any alien, who has complied with
the first condition specified in section twenty-one hundred
and sixty-five, dies before he is actually naturalized, the
widow and the children of such alien shall be considered
as citizens of the United States, and shall be entitled to
all rights and privileges as such, upon taking the oaths
prescribed by law."
Manifestly, the Act of 1906, demands much more of the
widow of a deceased alien who had declared his intention
before she can become a citizen than was necessary under
ยง 2168, Revised Statutes. Although in certain circumstances she may obtain naturalization without her personal declaration of intention, she must comply with all
other. prerequisites.

ALASKA PACKERS ASSO. v. ACCDT. COMM. 467
463

Syllabus.

Citizenship is a high privilege, and when doubts exist
concerning a grant of it, generally at least, they should be
resolved in favor of the United States and against the
claimant. Swan & Finch Co. v.*United States, 190 U. S.
143, 146. If Aniello had lived, his declaration of intention would have been valueless to him after seven years.
The construction now suggested by respondent would prolong the efficacy of this application for her benefit during
an indefinite period.
The Act of 1906 definitely directs that the petition for
citizenship shall be filed within seven years after the
declaration, and we find nothing in the words used or the
legislative purpose which permits an extension of such
time for the benefit of widows. United States v. Poslusny,
179 Fed. 836; In re Schmidt, 161 Fed. 231, and In re
Shearer, 158 Fed. 839, we think give no substantial support to the contrary view.
The decree of the court below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD

dissent.
ALASKA PACKERS ASSOCIATION v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 266.

Argued March 2, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

A person employed by a fishing and canning company as a seaman,
fisherman and for general work in and about a cannery, was injured, after the fishing season was over, while standing upon the
shore and endeavoring to push a stranded fishing boat into navigable water for the purpose of floating it to a nearby dock, where
it was to be lifted out and stored for the winter. Held that the
injury, if within the admiralty jurisdiction, was of such a local
character as to be cognizable under a state compensation law.
P. 469.
73 Calif. Dec. 330, affirmed.

