272

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

imposing the tax because of the failure to exercise the
power of appointment, does not deprive plaintiffs in error
of their property without due process of law.
Affirmed.
MILLER ET AL. v. SCHOENE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 199. Argued January 20, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.
1. An Act of Virginia provides, compulsorily, for the cutting down of
red cedar trees 'within two miles of any apple orchard when found
upon official investigation to be the source or "host plant" of the
communicable plant disease called cedar rust and to " constitute
a menace to the health of any apple orchard in said locality" The
owner is allowed a judicial review of the order of the State Entomologist directing such cutting, and may use the trees when cut,
but no compensation is allowed him for their value standing or for
decrease in market value of the realty caused by their destruction.
The evidence shows that the life cycle of the parasite has two
phases, passed alternately on the cedar and the apple; that it is
without effect on the value of the cedar, but destructive of the
leaves and fruit of the apple; that it is communicable by spores
from the cedar to the apple over a radius of at least two miles;
that the only practicable method of controlling it is destruction of
all red cedar trees within that distance of apple orchards; and
that the economic value of cedars in Virginia is small as compared
with that of the apple orchards.
Held, that the Act is consistent with the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 277.
2. When forced to make the choice, the State does not exceed its
constitutional powers by deciding upon the destruction of one class
of property in order to save another which, in the judgment of the
legislature, is of greater value to the public. P. 279.
3. Preferment of the public interest, even to the extent of destroying
property interests of the individual, is one of the distinguishing
characteristics of every exercise of the police power which affects
property. P. 280.

MILLER v. SCHOENE.
272

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

4. The provision of the statute that the investigation of the locality
shall be made upon the request of ten or more reputable freeholders of the county or magisterial district does not make it objectionable as subjecting private property to arbitrary or irresponsible
action of private citizens, since the decision whether the facts
revealed bring the case within the statute is made by the State
Entomologist and subject to judicial review. Eubank v. Richmond,
226 U. S. 137, distinguished. P. 280.
5. Since no penalty can be incurred or disadvantage suffered under
the statute in advance of the judicial ascertainment of its applicability, and since it was held applicable in this case by the state
court, the objection to its vagueness is without weight. P. 281.
146 Va. 175, affirmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia, which affirmed a judgment affirming on appeal
an order of the State Entomologist, Schoene, requiring the
plaintiffs to cut down a large number of ornamental red
cedar trees growing on their property. The judgment
allowed them $100 to cover the expense of removing the
cedars.
Mr. Randolph Harrison, with whom Messrs. C. W.
Bennick and D. 0. Dechert were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
The statute is invalid in that it provides for the taking
of private property, not for public use, but for the benefit
of other private persons. Buchanan v. Worley, 245
U. S. 74.
The enforcement of this law against plaintiffs in error,
involving the destruction of all the red cedar trees on
their land, would result in the taking of property values
of considerable magnitude-not less than five to seven
thousand dollars as they offered to prove.
We submit that the case is in no wise controlled by
the decisions cited in Bowman v. Entomologist, 128 Va.
351, in which statutes have been held valid which pro318°-28------18

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

276 U. S.

vided for the destruction, as nuisances, of noxious weeds
(never of any value for any purpose); or of fruit trees infected with San Jos4 scale; or of peach trees affected by
the "yellows"; or of apple trees infected with fruit scab,
or of oranges affected by "citrus canker,"-in all of
which instances the disease was one so affecting the trees
to be destroyed that their value as property was utterly
annihilated, and whose destruction, therefore, in order
to preserve healthy trees, could in no proper sense be regarded as a taking of property. Such trees, so diseased,
become of course, from the standpoint of value, of the
same class as noxious weeds, and within the de minimis
doctrine.
But in the case at bar, the cedar trees are not themselves injured in the slightest degree as a result of their
becoming hosts of the cedar rust. Nor is their contribution to the market value of the land on which they grow
at all diminished thereby.
It seems a wholly untenable view that of two species
of valuable property, one may be selected for destruction
for the protection of the other from the effects of a disease for whose existence and continuance they are interchangeably responsible.
In no case can property be taken for private use; and
the taking of private property for public use without due
process of law and proper compensation cannot be justified under the guise of the exercise of the police power.
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 233; Mehios v. Milwaukee (Wis.), 146
N. W. 884; Penna. Coal Co. v.. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393.
Neither the public health, the public safety, nor the
public morals or general welfare will be benefited or
promoted in any degree by the statute in question. The
alleged injury to the apple orchardist "will not justify
his shifting the damage to his neighbor's shoulders."
Penna.Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393.

MILLER v. SCHOENE.
272

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

We submit that there is not, in the American theory
of government, any room for the view that one man's
property may be taken or destroyed, either directly by
,eminent domain or indirectly, under the guise of taxation,
or of the police power, in order to enhance the property
values or the financial prosperity of another. The statute prescribes no means whereby the relative proportions
or values of the growths of cedar trees to be destroyed
in a particular case, and of the growths of the apple trees
sought to be protected thereby, shall be measured. It is
not even required that the entomologist or the court shall
be of the opinion that the orchards for whose benefit
the destruction of the cedar owner's property is required,
as compared with the cedars, are of any considerable
value; that they shall be sufficient in extent or value to
be deemed commercially important; or that, in any way,
they shall be shown capable of any material contribution
to the general prosperity of the State or of the community in which they exist--even indirectly by adding
to the values of its industries or contributing to its
aggregate wealth.
If it be assumed that the orchard industry of the section at large from which the case comes is one of considerable profit, that profit redounds to the benefit, not of the
State or any of its political sub-divisions nor of any public
activity, but of the private owners of the orchards. If
it can be said that their prosperity is a part of the general prosperity, the same is true of every profit gaining
enterprise in which citizens engage, and if the police
power extends to the promotion of the welfare of orchard
owners, by means of the taking or destruction of valuable
private property, it would seem clear that any of the
other industrial or profit-making enterprises of a portion
of the people may be likewise so promoted. Upon such
a view the property destroying capacity of the "police
power" would be absolutely limitless, and the constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Defendant in Error

276 U. S.

tional protection of property rights but hollow mockery.
Kaukauna etc. Co. v. Green Bay Co., 142 U. S. 273;
Ambler Realty Co. v. Village of Euclid, 297 Fed. 307.
Control of property of plaintiffs in error is exercised
under the statute by other owners of property. Eubank
v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; Fortune v. Braswell (Ga.),
77 S. E. 819; Cleveland Ry Co. v. People (Ill.), 72 N. E.
725; Noel v. People (Ill.), 58 N. E. 616; Railway Co. v.
Todd (Ky.), 5 S. W. 56; Morton v. Holes (N. D.), 115
N. W. 256; Kelleher v. Schoene, 14 F. (2d) 341.
The Virginia Court has itself declared, in Bowman v.
Entomologist, 128 Va. 351, that the red cedar trees denounced by the Cedar Rust statute are not nuisances at
common law.
The statute is void for vagueness and uncertainty. It
contains no criterion whatever by which to determine
who are the freeholders of the locality to whom is confided the power of invoking the axe of the Entomologist.
Again, what is the "locality" intended by the statute?
No technical meaning attaches to the term. Connally v.
General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 383.
The Virginia Court, in its opinion, has placed two interpretations on the term "locality" so opposed to each
other, that it would seem that the matter is still open for
determination by this Court.
But if it be held that the term "locality" is sufficiently
definite, what is to be said of the term "orchard," or
" orchards." How many apple trees must be grouped together to constitute an "orchard "?
The statute, as construed is plainly contrary to the first
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, Chicago etc., R. R.
v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 592; Pierce et al. v. The Society of
Sisters, 268 U. S. 510.
Mr. F. S. Tavenner, with whom Mr. John R. Saunders,
Attorney General of Virginia, was on the brief, for defendant in error.

MILLER v. SCHOENE.
272

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Acting under the Cedar Rust Act of Virginia, Va. Acts
1914, c. 36, as amended by Va. Acts 1920, c. 260, now embodied in Va. Code (1924) as §'§
885 to 893, defendant in
error, the state entomologist, ordered the plaintiffs in error
to cut down a large number of ornamental red cedar trees
growing on their property, as a means of preventing the
communication of a rust or plant disease with which they
were infected to the apple orchards in the vicinity. The
plaintiffs in error appealed from the order to the Circuit
Court of Shenandoah county which, after a hearing and
a consideration of evidence, affirmed the order and allowed
to plaintiffs in error $100 to cover the expense of removal
of the cedars. Neither the judgment of the court nor the
statute as interpreted allows compensation for the value
of the standing cedars or the decrease in the market value
of the realty caused by their destruction whether considered as ornamental trees or otherwise. But they save
to plaintiffs in error the privilege of using the trees when
felled. On appeal the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia affirmed the judgment. Miller v. State Entomologist,. 146 Va. 175. Both in the Circuit Court and the
Supreme Court of Appeals plaintiffs in error challenged
the constitutionality of the statute under the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the case is
properly here on writ of error. Jud. Code § 237(a).
The Virginia statute presents a comprehensive scheme
for the condemnation and destruction of red cedar trees
infected by cedar rust. By § 1 it is declared to be unlawful for any person to "own, plant or keep alive and standing" on his premises any red cedar tree which is or may be
the source or "host plant" of the communicable plant
disease known as cedar rust, and any such tree growing
within a certain radius of any apple orchard is declared
to be a public nuisance, subject to destruction. Section 2
makes it the duty of the state entomologist, "upon the

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

request in writing of ten or more reputable free-holders
of any county or magisterial district, to make a preliminary investigation of the locality . . . to ascertain
if any cedar tree or trees . . . are the source of,
harbor or constitute the host plant for the said disease
. . . and constitute a menace to the health of any
apple orchard in said locality, and that said cedar tree
or trees exist within a radius of two miles of an apple
orchard in said locality." If affirmative findings are so
made, he is required to direct the owner in writing to
destroy the trees and, in his notice, to furnish a statement
of the "fact found to exist whereby it is deemed necessary
or proper to destroy" the trees and to call attention to
the law under which it is proposed to destroy them. Section 5 authorizes the state entomologist to destroy the
trees if the owner, after being notified, fails to do so.
Section 7 furnishes a mode of appealing from the order
of the entomologist to the circuit court of the county,
which is authorized to "hear the objections" and "pass
upon all questions involved," the procedure followed in
the present case.
As shown by the evidence and as recognized in other
cases involving the validity of this statute, Bowman v.
Virginia State Entomologist, 128 Va. 351; Kelleher v.
Schoene, 14 Fed. (2d) 341, cedar rust is an infectious plant
disease in the form of a fungoid organism which is destructive of the fruit and foliage of the apple, but without
effect on the value of the cedar. Its life cycle has two
phases which are passed alternately as a growth on red
cedar and on apple trees. It is communicated by spores
from one to the other over a radius of at least two miles.
It appears not to be communicable between trees of the
same species but only from one species to the other, and
other plants seem not to be appreciably affected by it.
The only practicable method of controlling the disease
and protecting apple trees from its ravages is the destruc-

MILLER v. SCHOENE.
272

Opinion of the Court.

tion of all red cedar trees, subject to the infection, located
within two miles of apple orchards.
The red cedar, aside from its ornamental use, has occasional use and value as lumber. It is indigenous to
Virginia, is not cultivated or dealt in commercially on any
substantial scale, and its value throughout the state is
shown to be small as compared with that of the apple
orchards of the state. Apple growing is one of the principal agricultural pursuits in Virginia. The apple is used
there and exported in large quantities. Many millions of
dollars are invested in the orchards, which furnish employment for a large portion of the population, and have
induced the development of attendant railroad and cold
storage facilities.
On the evidence we may accept the conclusion of the
Supreme Court of Appeals that the state was under the
necessity of making a choice between the preservation of
one class of property and that of the other wherever both
existed in dangerous proximity. It would have been none
the less a choice if, instead of enacting the present statute,
the state, by doing nothing, had permitted serious injury
to the apple orchards within its borders to go on unchecked. When forced to such a choice the state does
not exceed its constitutional powers by deciding upop the
destruction of one class of property in order to save another which, in the judgment of the legislature, is of
greater value to the public. It will not do to say that the
case is merely one of a conflict of two private interests and
that the misfortune of apple growers may not be shifted
to cedar owners by ordering the destruction of their property; for it is obvious that there may be, and that here
there is, a preponderant public concern in the preservation
of the one interest over the other. Compare Bacon v.
Walker, 204 U. S. 311; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v.
May, 194 U. S. 267; Chicago, Terre Haute & Southeastern
Ry. v. Anderson, 242 U. S. 283; Perley v. North Carolina,
249 U. S. 510. And where the public interest is involved

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

preferment of that interest over the property interest of
the individual, to the extent even of its destruction, is one
of the distinguishing characteristics of every exercise of
the police power which affects property. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Hadacheck .v.
Los Angeles, 239 U. S.
394; Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S.
365; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Northwestern Laundry v. Des Moines, 239 U. S.486; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52;
Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171.
We need not weigh with nicety the question whether
the infected cedars constitute a nuisance according to the
common law; or whether they may be so declared by
statute. See Hadacheck v. Los Angeles, supra, 411. For
where, as here, the choice is unavoidable, we cannot say
that its exercise, controlled by considerations of social
policy which are not unreasonable, involves any denial of
due process. The injury to property here is no more serious, nor the public interest less, than in Hadacheck v.
Los Angeles, supra; Northwestern Laundry v. Des Moines,
supra; Reinman v. Little Rock, supra, or Sligh v. Kirkwood, supra.
The statute is not, as plaintiffs in error argue, subject
to the vice which invalidated the ordinance considered by
this Court in Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137. That
ordinance directed the committee on streets of the city of
Richmond to establish a building line, not less than five
nor more than thirty feet from the street line whenever
requested to do so by the owners of two-thirds of the
property abutting on the street in question. No property
owner might build beyond the line so established. Of
this the Court said (p. 143), "It [the ordinance] leaves
no discretion in the committee on streets as to whether
the street [building, semble] line shall or shall not be
established in a given case. The action of the committee
is determined by two-thirds of the property owners. In

LEVY v. INDUSTRIAL CORP.
272

Syllabus.

other words, part of the property owners fronting on the
block determine the extent of use that other owners shall
make of their lots, and against the restriction they are
impotent."
The function of the property owners there is in no way
comparable to that of the "ten or more reputable freeholders" in the Cedar Rust Act. They do not determine
the action of the state entomologist. They merely request him to conduct an investigation. In him is vested
the discretion to decide, after investigation, whether or
not conditions are such that the other provisions of the
statute shall be brought into action; and his determination is subject to judicial review. The property of plaintiffs in error is not subjected to the possibly arbitrary and
irresponsible action of a group of private citizens.
The objection of plaintiffs in error to the vagueness of
the statute is without weight. The state court has held
it to be applicable and that is enough when, by the
statute, no penalty can be incurred or disadvantage suffered in advance of the judicialascertainment of its applicability. Compare Connally v. General ConstructionCo.,
269 U. S. 385.
Affirmed.

LEVY v. INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION,
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT

No. 217.

Argued February 24, 1928.-Decided March 5, 1928.

Section 14b (3) of the Bankruptcy Act which withholds a discharge
from a bankrupt who obtained money or property on credit upon
a materially false statement in writing, made by him to any person
or his representative for the purpose of obtaining credit from such
person, applies where the bankrupt through his false statement
obtained a loan for a corporation controlled by him and in which
he was largely interested as a stockholder and creditor. P. 283.

16 F. (2d) 769, affirmed.

