OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

ceased was the line of the Chesapeake & Ohio, which was
master and remained in charge of the operation, with the
immediate supervision of the Big Four crew which was
lent for the very purpose of doing the work of the Chesapeake & Ohio.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals must be reversed and the judgment of the
District Court of Kentucky restored.
Reversed.

HARKIN

RECEIVERS, v. BRUNDAGE,
RECEIVER, ET AL.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 117.

Argued December 5, 6, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. As between two courts of concurrent and co~rdinate jurisdiction,
the court which first obtains jurisdiction and constructive possession of property by the filing of a bill is entitled to retain it without interference and can not be deprived of its right to do so because
it may not have obtained prior physical possession by its receiver
of the property in dispute; but where the jurisdiction is not the
same or concurrent, and the subject matter in litigation in the one
is not within the cognizance of the other, or there is no constructive
possession of the property in dispute by the filing of a bill, it is the
date of the actual possession of the receiver that determines the
priority of jurisdiction. P. 43.
2. A stockholders' suit having been brought in a state court, to protect
the assets of a corporation from wasteful and dishonest management and to restore them, when in safe condition, to the corporation after election of a new management, the attorney for the
corporation fraudulently procured a postponement of a motion for
receivers by agreeing in the state court that nothing would be done
in the interim to affect the status quo, the real intention being to
secure a prior receivership in the federal court. To this end, during the continuance, a collusive creditors' suit was begun against the
corporation by a non-resident, a receiver was appointed with the
corporation's consent, the bill, answer and consent being filed simultaneously, and the receiver took custody of the corporate property.

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Syllabus.

Soon afterwards, receivers appointed by the state court, explaining
the facts to the federal court, applied for a surrender of the property, which was denied, although the parties there at that time
were limited to the corporation and the plaintiff, both charged with
knowledge of the fraud, and although, due to the insolvency of the
corporation, the proceeding in the state court could by amendment
have been given the effect of a creditors' bill. The federal court
proceeded to administer the corporate estate, receiver's receipts
were issued and paid, some of the property was sold, some distribution made to creditors, and the rights of innocent creditors who
had become parties were involved. Held:
(1) The means by which the state court was induced to delay
exercise of its jurisdiction to appoint receivers and the failure to
reveal the facts to the federal court, constituted a fraud on both
courts. P., 56.
(2) Vindication of the cause of comity and good faith as between the two courts should not be limited to punitive proceedings
against the lawyer whose pledge to the state court was broken.
P. 54.
(3) Although the difference in character between the two suits
as brought was such as to have enabled the federal court to retain
jurisdiction of the. property but for the fraud, when it learned of
the fraud, the parties before it being both guilty, it was bound in
good faith and comity to accord the state court an opportunity to
exercise its jurisdiction, even to the taking of the property. P. 56.
(4) Notwithstanding the subsequent change of situation, through
the administration of the estate in the federal court and the introduction of innocent parties, comity still required that the federal
court, after paying reasonable compensation to its officers for work
done by them, should surrender the property still in its custody to
the state court receivers, but on condition that that court first confirm all that was done in the sale, disposition and distribution of
assets as though done by its own decree, and so shape its pleadings, etc., that the case in that court might proceed, as a creditors'
bill, to a liquidation of all debts and distribution of remaining
assets. P. 57.
(5) Failing the making of such an order by the state court and
its production in the federal court in a seasonable time, the pending administration in the federal court should continue. P. 58.
3. As a general rule, a creditors' bill can be brought only by a judgment creditor after a return of nulla bona. P. 52.
4. When a receiver has been irregularly appointed in a suit by a
simple contract creditor with consent of the defendant, and the

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

administration has proceeded so far that it would be detrimental
to all concerned to discharge the receiver, the receivership has been
permitted to continue because not seasonably objected to. P. 52.
5. A receiver is an officer of the court, and should be as free from
"friendliness" to any party as should the court itself. P. 55.
6. A conclusion of fact made by the District Court upon hearing the
witnesses, will not be accepted here when the agreed stenographic
report and other circumstances in the case show it to be clearly
erroneous. P. 53.
13 F. (2d) 617, reversed.

CERTIoRI, 273 U. S. 682, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming an order of the District Court,
which denied an application by the petitioners here for
surrender into their custody, as receivers appointed by a
state court, of property in the custody of the respondent,
as receiver appointed by the District Court. See post,
p. 604.
Mr. Lloyd C. Whitman, with whom Mr. Bernhardt
Frank was on the brief, for petitioners..
Mr. Edward R. Johnston, with whom Messrs. Ralph F.
Potter and Henry J. Darby were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents a controversy between state court
receivers and the receiver of a federal court over the
possession of the property and assets of the Daniel Boone
Woolen Mills Corporation. It is here by certiorari to the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit affirming a decree of the district court for the
Northern District of Illinois. The receivers in the state
court were appointed on the prayer of what was called a
stockholder's bill. The receiver in the federal court was
appointed on the prayer of what was called a creditor's
bill. The receiver in the federal court was appointed

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

first; but the bill in equity upon which the state
court receivers were appointed was filed five days before
the bill in the federal court. The receivers in the state
court filed a motion in the federal court requesting that
the property in the hands of the federal court receiver be
transferred to the state court receivers, on the ground that
the state court by the earlier filing of the bill in that
court had acquired constructive possession and its receivers were entitled therefore to actual possession of
the property.
The Daniel Boone Woolen Mills was a corporation of
the State of Illinois engaged in the manufacture of woolen
cloth in Illinois with its principal place of business there
but with additional plants in other states. It had 187,000
shares of stock owned by 1,500 individual stockholders
resident in many states. It had been so badly managed
during the year 1924, and its indebtedness had been so
much increased that a surplus of $500,000 had been
changed into a deficit of more than $2,000,000. Nevertheless, at the end of 1924, it was alleged by all parties
that its assets exceeded its liabilities by $1,000,000,
although the event has proved the fact to be otherwise
and administration under receivership shows the debts
much to exceed its assets. The mismanagement had
led its president and its treasurer, both named Gumbinski,
to resign, and they were replaced by Joseph Byfield as
president, and Frank Solomon as vice-president. These
two officials had not been able to secure the financial support necessary to meet the expenditures and conduct the
business. On February 14th, 1925, therefore, Harry Hurwitz, a stockholder of the company, filed a bill in the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois, in his own behalf
and in that of all other stockholders of the corporation,
"and all other firms or corporations who might be interested in the litigation, and who might seek to intervene
or contribute to the expense thereof."

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The averment of the bill was that during 1924 those
in control had used for their own purposes the assets of
the corporation, and it became the duty of the new officers
to bring suit to recover the property thus abstracted, embezzled or wasted, but that nothing had been done. It
averred the solvency of the company, but alleged that it
was not able to pay its current expenses, that the business
ought to be maintained and conducted in order to make
up in salable form a great deal of material on hand uncompleted, and that in order to save the property in the
interest of the stockholders and others, a receiver should
be appointed who should continue the business. The
prayer was for an injunction forbidding those engaged in
the management from imposing any lien or mortgage on
the property. In effect the bill asked for the appointment of
receivers with authority to take possession of the property,
carry on the business, and subsequently, after getting the
property into proper condition, to provide for and call a
stockholders' meeting and a transfer of the property back
to a new management.
On the 19th of February, five days later, a bill was filed
in the United States district court for the Northern District of Illinois by the United States Worsted Sales Company, a corporation of the State of New York, claiming to
be a simple non-judgment creditor of the Woolen Mills
in the sum of $6,000. The plaintiff brought the bill on
its own behalf and on behalf of all the creditors of the
Woolen Mills who would join in the prosecution. Its
averments in respect to ownership and the disastrous operation of the company were much the same as those of the
bill by Hurwitz in the state court. It specifically averred
that the Woolen Mills was not insolvent but that it had
been impossible to secure money with which to carry it on,
that there was grave danger of the recovery of judgments
and the levy of executions, and of a race for undue preferences, and that in the preservation of the property it was

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

necessary to appoint a receiver to continue the business,
make up the uncompleted material and then to dispose
of the property as the court might deem wise, by sale or
otherwise, in the interest of all the creditors and of the
stockholders. It asked authority for the receiver to apply
in either federal or state courts of other states, in which
the various factories of the Woolen Mills were situate,
for ancillary receiverships. It further asked an injunction against judgments and executions of all creditors and
an order requiring them to file their claims with the
receiver.
Application for receivers in the state court in the
Hurwitz suit had been made upon the filing of the bill,
and notice given to the defendant Woolen Mills that the
motion would be presented on February 16, 1925, the bill
having been filed February 14th. Upon application of
one Cowan, the attorney for the Woolen Mills corporation, the hearing on the motion for a receivership on the
16th was postponed until February 21st, and meantime
the bill in the federal court for a receiver was filed on
February 19. On the same day the Woolen Mills Corporation entered its appearance in the district court, filed
its answer admitting the averments of the bill and consented to the appointment of a receiver. The appointment of Brundage as receiver was made on the following
day.
On the 25th of February, the Superior Court of Cook
County entered an order allowing one Max Goldenberg,
a stockholder, to file in the Hurwitz suit his intervening
petition, which did not in effect change the nature of the
relief asked, but elaborated a description of details of the
conspiracy of the Gumbinskis to loot the Woolen Mills
Company, and of a conspiracy of the Woolen Mills management to evade the jurisdiction of the state court by
delay in the appointment of receivers there and by the
collusive answer and consent of the Woolen Mills to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

appointment of a federal court receiver. This intervening
petition was adopted on March 13th by Hurwitz as an
amendment to his original bill. On February 28th, the
Superior Court entered its order appointing the Union
Bank and Harkin as receivers of the property. In that
order the Superior Court found that it had had jurisdiction of the subject matter and the parties and it empowered its receivers to prosecute and defend without further order all existing actions by or against the Woolen
Mills Corporation, and enjoined the corporation, its officers and directors, from encumbering or pledging or creating any liens against the property, moneys, accounts and
assets of the Woolen Mills Corporation during the receivership. On March 13th the state court receivers filed a
motion in the district court in this cause setting forth
their appointment as receivers *in the state court and the
history of the litigation, charged that the district court
was without jurisdiction to appoint a receiver of the
Woolen Mills Corporation or of its property, assets or
records, and prayed for an order upon Brundage, as its
receiver, to turn over this property now in his possession
to them.
The question mainly argued in the district court and in
the Circuit Court of Appeals and here was whether the
state court, solely by the filing of a stockholder's bill for
the appointment of a receiver, obtained constructive possession of the property and assets of the Woolen Mills
Corporation. Upon this motion, evidence was taken disclosing at length the circumstances of the postponement
in the state court, the filing of the bill in the federal
court and the appointment of the receivers there. Of
these we shall hereafter consider the effect. The district
court held that the controversy in the federal court was
different from that in the state court as shown by a comparison of the two bills; that the bill in the federal court
was a creditor's bill, whereas that in the state court was

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

a stockholder's bill; that the interests of the creditors
were prior and necessarily underlay those of the stockholders, and that the stockholder's bill in the state court
would have been ineffective because in such a case the
court had no power to enjoin creditors from judgment
and execution against the assets, whereas the jurisdiction
in the creditor's bill gave power to preserve by injunction
the estate and thus prevent undue preference among creditors. It was therefore concluded that the creditor who
brought the bill was entitled to the receiver as prayed, and
that the appointment of the receiver gave the federal
court jurisdiction which the state court receivers could
not be permitted to disturb.
The principle which should govern in a conflict of jurisdiction like this has been a number of times stated by
this Court. As between two courts of concurrent and coordinate jurisdiction, the court which first obtains jurisdiction and constructive possession of property by filing
the bill is entitled to retain it without interference and
can not be deprived of its right to do so because it may
not have obtained prior physical possession by its receiver
of the property in dispute; but where the jurisdiction is
not the same or concurrent, and the subject matter in
litigation in the one is not within the cognizance of the
other, or there is no constructive possession of the property in dispute by the filing of a bill, it is the date of the
actual possession of the receiver that determines the
priority of jurisdiction. Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256,
283, 284; Palmer v. Texas, 212 U. S. 118; Wabash Railroad v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 54; Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company v. Lake Street Railroad Company,
. 177 U. S. 51, 61; and Adams v. Mercantile Trust Company, 66 Fed. 617. The difficulty in the application of
the rule is in determining whether the conflicting
jurisdictions are actually concurrent and the same. A
doubtful question, too, is whether the bill is of such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

character that its filing is the taking of constructive possession of the property.
In Palmer V. Texas, the suit in the state court was an
action by the State to forfeit the charter of the corporation and wind up its affairs. The suit in the United
States court was an action by a stockholder to liquidate the
corporation. Both were substantially alike in purpose.
The state court had proceeded so far as to appoint receivers of the property and had merely delayed their taking possession until the case might be examined on appeal
in the court above. The state court was held to be in
constructive possession all the time, and was given priority
of jurisdiction over the property as against the receivers
of a federal court who had taken actual possession under
a subsequent bill.
In Farmers' Loan and Trust Company v. Lake Street
Railroad Company, the suit in the federal court was an
action to foreclose a mortgage, and the one in the state
court sought to enjoin the foreclosure. In that case the
controversies were held to be substantially the same, and
the filing of the bill in foreclosure in the federal court was
held to be a constructive possession of the property.
In Moran v. Sturges, on the other hand, the controversy
was between the jurisdiction of a state court in winding up
a corporation and the distribution of its assets, which included navigable vessels, and the jurisdiction of the federal court, which had taken actual possession of the vessels, to enforce the collection of maritime liens on them.
It was held that as the state court had no capacity to
take jurisdiction of the maritime liens and enforce them,
there was not concurrent jurisdiction, and therefore the
court which first obtained actual possession of the vesselsby its receiver was entitled to retain it without interference.
In Empire Trust Company v. Brooks, 232 Fed. 641, a
suit was pending in the state court for the dissolution of a

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

corporation and the distribution of its assets under a state
statute, but it had made no order appointing a receiver
and had not taken actual possession of the property at
the time the suit was brought. A subsequent suit was
brought against the corporation in the federal court to
foreclose a mortgage upon the property and a receiver was
appointed who took possession of the property and it was
held in a carefully reasoned opinion that the federal court
by receivership had acquired priority of jurisdiction with
respect to the property mortgaged, on the ground that the
issues and subject matter of the two suits were not essentially the same and that there was no conflict of jurisdiction. See also De La Vergne RefrigeratingMachine Company v. Palmetto Brewing Company, 72 Fed. 579, 584, 585.
We conclude that if the decision of this motion turned
on the question of priority of jurisdiction on the face of
the two bills, it could not be said that the courts were
exercising concurrent jurisdiction. The creditor's bill conferred on the court the power to enjoin the judgments and
executions of creditors and the establishment of undue
preferences among the creditors, whereas in the stockholder's bill no such remedy was asked and could hardly
be afforded without amendment and further allegation
and prayer. Of course, as it has now turned out, because the corporation has proven to be insolvent, it would
not have been difficult or be difficult now in the state
court bill, by an amendment, to give the stockholder's
bill the effect of a creditor's bill, with the receivers in
possession. Indeed it would seem to be its duty to do so.
These considerations based upon the face of the pleadings in both actions would have justified the conclusions
reached in the district court and in the Circuit Court of
Appeals were it not that the evidence submitted by the
receivers of the state court upon the motion here under
consideration discloses a fraud upon the state court by
which the appointment of receivers therein was delayed
in order that the federal receiver could be appointed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

There were two parties among the stockholders in the
Boone Mills Corporation. Gumbinski and his associates
had been ousted in November, 1924, because of charges
made public against them of concealment and defalcation
and mismanagement. It became a subject of newspaper
comment and of great publicity because of the large number of stockholders and the wide distribution of the shares.
Byfield and Solomon, who, as already said, had been made
in November, 1924, president and vice-president, controlled the majority of the stock. Hurwitz as a stockholder, acting for the minority stockholders, filed the
stockholder's bill and made the application for receivers
to the Superior Court of Cook County. The application
much affected the credit of the corporation, and it was
regarded between the stockholders as an important question who should be receiver and by what court he should
be appointed.
Mr. Cowan was one of a firm of lawyers that acted for
the defendant the Woolen Mills Corporation, and was
himself a member of the executive committee of the
board of directors of that company. Mr. Byfield admits
that he talked with Mr. Cowan sometime before and had
expressed his opposition to anything but a federal receivership. The application for a receiver in the state
court on the stockholder's bill was set for February 16,
1925. When the motion was called on that day, what
followed is recited in the record as agreed upon by the
parties. We have inserted it in the margin.*
*Mr. Gesas: If the court please, this is a Bill filed by a stock-

holder, seeking the appointment of a receiver, for the Boone Woolen
Mills, Inc. A notice was served on the company and Mr. Cowan,
who appears here this morning, advises me that the company desires
a continuance.
Mr. Cowan: The situation, if the court please, is this, without going into the merits of the bill, whether or not the bill sets up such

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

47

Opinion of the Court.

An examination of the evidence following this postponement, much of which had to be drawn from the
Byfield party and their attorneys, satisfies us that the facts
were as follows:
The delay in hearing the motion for a receiver in the
state court was procured by Mr. Cowan, the attorney for
grounds as would warrant this court in entering a receivership; there
are certain important matters now coming before the Board of Directors of this company, which involves some very large amount of
finances, and which will be seriously interfered with, if this court
undertakes to hear the application, for a receivership. I think those
negotiations will be concluded, within a week, and the rights of the
complainant, under this bill, will not be affected in any way at all, by
allowing this matter to go over for a matter of a week or ten days.
I would prefer not to argue the motion this morning, but if counsel
insists upon it, of course it will be necessary for me to do it.
Mr. Gesas: I think the first thing the record should disclose is
whether or not these gentlemen are appearing here for the company;
there is no appearance on file.
The Court: Yes, that is right.
Mr. Gesas: I appear here for the complainant.
Mr. Cowan: I appear for the company, and will file my appearance
in due time.
Mr. Gesas: In your individual capacity?
Mr. Cowan: The firm of Barrett and Barrett, with which I am
associated.
Mr. Gesas: Now, if the court please, in this matter, without going
into the full matters, there has been a considerable fight, as your
Honor happens to see, from this photographic newspaper, in which
it is a fight between the former directors against the present directors
and the present directors against the former directorsThe Court: And their compliments were passed back and forth?
Mr. Gesas: Yes, if the court please, and there has been a loss of
over three million dollars in one year in the operation of this business, which practically has been neglected on account of no action
taken by these directors, and if any continuance is granted here at all
it must be-well, I think the court has a right to hear this matter;
that the issues, if any at all are involved, should be tried by this
court, not the newspapers, so that the good-will which the stockholders have in this business, and the value of that good-will, if there

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

the Boone Mills Corporation, for the purpose, if possible,
of securing the appointment of a receiver in the federal
court. One Grand was a stockholder of the corporation
and lived in St. Louis, and represented other stockholders, all of whom were of the Byfield party. As soon as
the motion was continued in the state court, a conference
was held between Cowan, Byfield and Solomon. It has
been said that this conference was to be held with a view
of securing money to carry on the corporation, and that
this was the reason for asking the delay in the state court.
But we think the evidence of Mr. Solomon shows clearly
that the conference was for the purpose of seeing whether
is any left after this terrible fight, between the old directors and the
new directors, should be placed in status quo, and if there is any
continuance granted, I think it ought to be done with the understanding that the status will not be changed, and that the issues be
not tried in the newspapers, but by this court.
The Court: Yes, but of course, I can not control the newspapers,
you understand.
Mr. Gesas: Your Honor can control the status quo.
The Court: Yes, with that understanding, but the suggestion that
individuals should not seek publicity, of course,Mr. Gesas: The situation is thisMr. Cowan: Just a minute. Mr. Gesas complains about trying
the case in the newspapers; one of the parties, who is charged with
fraud in this bill, published half a page of an advertisement, and it
was paid for, I assume, byMr. Gesas: Here it is.
Mr. Cowan: (Continuing)-that is something over which we have
no control, and which we didn't mail; there has been a two million
dollar libel suit against the present President of the company, so that
I don't think we could be charged with trying our case in the
newspapers.
Mr. Gesas: I am not making any direct charge, at this moment, as
to either the present directors or the former directors, as to their
activities, except to say that both are guilty of seeking this publicity.
Mr. Cowan: Now, the question of publicityMr. Gesas: Just a minute. May I suggest, if the court please,
there is a considerable emergency in this way; from what I under-

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

a receivership in the federal court could be secured in
advance of the probable appointment in the state court.
Mr. Cowan telephoned to Mr. Grand to come to his
office with the expectation that because of his diverse
citizenship he could file a stockholder's bill in the federal
court. Grand suggested that a law firm of which Stern
and Johnson were members should be selected. One of
that firm, either Mr. Stern or Mr. Johnson, expressed the
opinion that instead of a stockholder's bill a creditor's
bill should be filed, because on such a bill they were more
stand a form letter was sent out by the present President, in which
he advises the stockholders of the terrible condition he finds the company in, at the present time, with the payroll and other expenses
which run about one hundred thousand dollars a week; that any
great delay in this matter is going to be very harmful to the rights
of the parties; of course, we are willing to grant a reasonable continuance, and if this matter goes over to about Friday or Saturday of
this week, I should imagine that ought to be a reasonable time, and
not have a continuance for one week or ten days. We are here to-"
ascertain our status-'
Mr. Cowan: I have no objection to its going over to Friday or
Saturday, but personally I think if you let it go until MondayThe Court: There is no court Monday; that is what the Clerk tells
me. You see Washington's Birthday is on the twenty-second, and
we observe it on the twenty-third, the day following.
Mr. Cowan: Saturday morning, all right.
Mr. Gesas: Saturday morning and everything remains in status
quo?
The Court: Yes. Saturday morning, without further notice.
Mr. Gesas: And any notices, or affidavits that you are going to
presentThe Court: Yes, have them served on the other side, naturally,
either side.
Mr. Cowan: All right, Saturday morning.
The Court: Yes.
Which were all the proceedings had in the above entitled cause, on
&
this date.
Signed and sworn to by the Court Reporter, Cleary.
318*-28-4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

likely to get the receivership. Then the question arose
who should be made the plaintiff, Grand, the St. Louis
stockholder, not filling the requirement in such a suit.
Cowan and others, with vice-president Solomon, examined
the list of creditors of the company to see who could be
induced to bring the creditor's bill. It was found that one
Philipson, who was the agent of the United States
Worsted Sales Company, a corporation and citizen of
New York, had a claim for $6,000, and also that Stern was
a personal friend of the agent. Accordingly, Solomon
asked Philipson to turn his claim over to Stern for the
protection of the company and creditors and stockholders
of the Boone Mills Corporation, saying that the purpose
of having a receiver appointed in the federal court was
to prevent the appointment of a receiver in the state
court. Philipson replied that he would be willing to do
so provided he got the consent of his home office. The
statement was made to him "somewhere along the road"
that there would be no expense involved to Philipson's
icompany. Philipson telephoned his company and got
their consent. Then Mr. Johnson, the partner of Mr.
Stern, drafted the bill in accordance with such information
as he says he had had for thirty days and such information
as he obtained from Cowan and the other men who were
interested. The bill was filed. The answer of the company on the authority of its directors admitting all the
facts and consenting to the appointment of a receiver
was filed upon the same day with the filing of the bill.
Counsel for the Worsted Sales Company knew this would
be done.' It is unnecessary to rehearse the evidence of
the persons engaged in this combination to secure in the
federal court the earlier receivership; but it is very clear
that the whole suit in which the receiver was appointed
was brought to secure that end before the action of the
state court, and that the lrrime actor in the whole matter,

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

which it does not do injustice to say had elements of a
conspiracy, was the Daniel Boone Mills Company.
Cowan was its lawyer and a member of the executive committee of its directors. He sought and procured the continuance in the state court. He continued to act as that
company's attorney in his dealings with Grand and in the
conferences between Stern and Johnson. When the form
of the bill was changed from a stockholder's bill to a
creditor's bill, they all, including Cowan, hunted for a
non-resident creditor to consent to file the bill. The
whole work was the result of Cowan's active agency.
Cowan secured the delay in the state court by what on his
part for his company was an agreement that nothing
in the interim should be done to affect the litigation in
the state court and that the status quo should be maintained. Cowan does not really deny this, though he says
he did not think he went so far. What he said in court
can not be contested, because it is a stenographic report.
The Woolen Mills Corporation was advised that the
creditor's bill to be filed could not be sustained because
the nominal plaintiff was not a judgment creditor but
was a simple nonjudgment creditor (Lion Bonding &
S. Company v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 77, 85), and that that
defect could only be remedied and immediate court action
secured by an answer of the company admitting the averments of the bill and consenting to a receivership. Pusey
& Jones Company v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 500. So
simultaneously with the filing of the bill, the answer and
consent were filed in the federal court. The complainant
in the bill was as much the company's agent and tool in
bringing the bill as was the Woolen Mills Company's own
attorney in filing the answer, and in this aspect the suit
was collusive. The complainant, the Worsted Sales Company, was therefore charged with knowledge of the fraud
by which delay had been secured in the state court. The
other agents whom the defendant company employed to

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

bring about the result, even if they did not know the
means taken to secure the delay, were affected with
knowledge of it, because they were acting for the Woolen
Mills Company in this transaction in its pursuit of a
federal court receivership. We do not impute to Stern
or Johnson actual knowledge of Cowan's fraudulent
method of securing a postponement in the state court
when they filed the bill of complaint. Cowan says he
did not tell them. Johnson. denies knowledge of it, and
there is no evidence that they were informed. But, as
explained, their client, the Worsted Sales Company, the
complainant, was charged with knowledge of it. The
district court did not know these facts when the bill was
filed and the receiver was appointed, but they were all
brought to its attention when the motion of the state
receivers was made and heard and evidence adduced
March 13, 1925.
We do not. wish what we have said to be taken as a
general approval of the appointment of a receiver under
the prayer of a bill brought by a simple contract creditor
simply because it is consented to at the time by a defendant corporation. The true rule in equity is that under
usual circumstahces a creditor's bill may not be brought
except by a judgment creditor after a return of "nulla
bona" on execution. When a receiver has been thus
irregularly appointed on such a bill without objection,
and the administration has proceeded to such a point
that it would be detrimental to all concerned to discharge
the receiver, the receivership has been permitted to continue because not seasonably objected to (Pusey & Jones
Company v. Hanssen, 261 U. S.491, 497, 500; Re Metropolitan Ry. Receivership, 208 U. S.90, 109, 111; United
States v. Butterworth Corporation,269 U. S. 504, 513).
In refusing the motion of the state court receivers for
surrender of the property and assets of the Woolen Mills,
the district court said:
"It must be borne in mind that the State Court did not
act until nine days after the appointment in this Court,

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

and then upon different pleadings. The statement in the
State Court of the attorney for the defendant, even if
given the extreme meaning claimed for it (a meaning
which in my opinion is not warranted by the evidence)
could not operate to invalidate the proceedings of this
Court. At most it amounted to an agreement, a violation of which would have been a contempt of the State
Court. If it has the force of an injunction, it would not
render void the action in the Federal Court."
Again, the same court said, speaking of the state court:
"The Court had taken no action which brought defendant's property within its custody; and it was not until
March 13, 1925, that it was claimed in this Court that
there was any agreement in the State Court beyond the
terms of the order of February 16, 1925. In the meantime, the Federal Court here and in other districts proceeded with the administration of the affairs of the defendant corporation. As Judge Lurton said, it would
lead to absurd results and inflict unwarranted injury upon
innocent parties, if the alleged oral agreement of the
attorney in the State Court, of which there was no record,
can be invoked to invalidate the proceedings here."
We differ radically from the trial court as to the purpose and effect of the conduct of Cowan in securing the
postponement of the hearing for a receiver in the state
court. Ordinarily we should acquiesce in a conclusion of
fact by the court that heard the witnesses in such a case,
but here the evidence of what was said in the state court
is on a stenographic report agreed upon by the parties,
and the other circumstances make the necessary inferences
therefrom clear.
Nor can we take the view that when the motion of the
state court receivers applied for surrender there were
then in the federal court case innocent parties upon whom
surrender to the state court of the property would work
any hardship, for no creditor had come into the case
except the complainant, which by its actual relation to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U.S.

proceeding was charged with knowledge of the means by
which a receivership had been obtained. In respect to
the effect of the evidence, the language of the Circuit
Court of Appeals shows it took a different view of the
facts from that of the district court:
"That the conduct of debtor's first counsel (not the
counsel appearing in this court) was far from commendable, is unfortunately, most apparent. It is, happily, not
a frequent occurrence that an attorney for a debtor seeks
the creditor and urges him to bring suit against his client,
or turns over his client's list of creditors to an attorney
soliciting business, to say nothing of the violated pledge
to the judge and opposing counsel. Moreover, good faith
required this counsel to have advised the Federal District
Court of the pendency of the State court proceedings.
"The case is one where in their determination to control the receivership, counsel proceeded with such speed
and zeal that the code of professional ethics was entirely
ignored and forgotten. Counsel should avoid these hurried ex parte applications for friendly receivers. In fact,
there should be no 'friendly receiverships.' Whenever
possible, notice should be given to any and all interested
parties. When the debtor corporation appears, however,
and consents to such appointment, the court must rely on
counsel to inform it as to all the facts. If essential facts
are deliberately withheld, counsel may well forfeit his
right to practice further, or be otherwise disciplined.
"Notwithstanding the prejudice which this conduct
has created, we have approached the question with the
understanding that the client's rights rather than attorney's conduct must be the basis for the determination of
this litigation."
But we do not agree with either of the courts below
that the vindication of the cause of comity and good faith
as between the two courts should be limited to punitive

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

proceedings against the lawyer in the state court whose
pledge to that court was broken.
In this country, in which in every state we have courts
of concurrent jurisdiction under the federal and the state
authority, it is of the highest importance that conflict
of jurisdiction should be avoided. It can only be avoided
by forbearance and comity, and by enforcing upon the
parties and counsel engaged the utmost good faith and the
fullest disclosure in one jurisdiction with reference to
what are the exact facts relevant to litigation in a corresponding case in the other. This is especially true with
respect to receiverships. The desire of those who represent an embarrassed corporation to seek a refuge from
active and urgent creditors under the protecting arm of an
officer of the court, leads to strenuous efforts to frame a
case which may under equity practice justify a receiver.
More than this, circumstances which should have no influence lead the parties in interest to prefer one court to
another in the selection of the person to be appointed as
receiver, with the hope on behalf of those in charge of the
embarrassed corporation that the appointment may fall
to one whose conduct will be in sympathy with, rather
than antagonistic to, the previous management of the
corporation, in the hands of which the embarrassment has
arisen. As the Court of Appeals says, there should be no
"friendly" receiverships, because the receiver is an officer
of the court and should be as free from "friendliness" to
a party as should the court itself. Nor should there be
any competition or rivalry on the part of the two courts
themselves in regard to assuming jurisdiction. The
temptation of the exercise of power and patronage in the
selection of receivers and the management of great businesses under the court should not be a feather's weight
in prompting court action. Each court should examine
with nicety the question of the right of the parties to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

a receiver and should advise itself in regard to the circumstances making it its duty to exercise this delicate jurisdiction. If the court finds that by misrepresentation or
by a false pledge another court has delayed action by
which the possession of the res would have been taken
before the application in hand was made, it should insist
that the parties and counsel who have misled the other
court must give that court full opportunity to remedy the
wrong done. What was done here in delaying the state
court and inducing the federal court to act without a full
disclosure of what had been done in the state court, was a
fraud not only upon the state court but upon the federal
court itself, and when the federal court learned the
method by which its jurisdiction to appoint a receiver had
been invoked, it should have denied to those who were
guilty the further use of its jurisdiction until after the
state court had been given an opportunity to exercise the
jurisdiction which it was entitled to exercise, even to
taking possession of the property. As we have already
said, there was, when the district court herein came to
know the facts, no party before it who was not to be
charged with a knowledge of how its jurisdiction had
been secured.
It is quite true, as already said, that if there had been
no chicanery in the delay of the proceeding in the state
court, the difference between the two proceedings would
have justified the retention of the jurisdiction by the
federal court. But the two proceedings, while not the
same, were closely related, and the proceeding in the state
court must by the subsequent insolvency have resulted in
reframing in the state court the pleadings so as to make
it a creditor's bill. Hence they were closely enough related to call upon the federal court to refuse thereafter to
continue jurisdiction through its receiver, and to surrender custody of the res to the receivers of the state court.
Such action we deem to have been that which the comity

HARKIN v. BRUNDAGE.
36

Opinion of the Court.

and the good faith of a federal court owed to the state
court.
But now the condition has changed, and the rights of
innocent creditors who have since become parties are involved, the court and the receiver have proceeded to administer the property, have found it necessary to issue
receiver's certificates, and have paid them, have sold some
of the property and have made some distribution to the
creditors. It would be in some ways easier to allow the
settlement to go on as it is, but this would not comport
with the obligation of a federal court to observe and emphasize the highest good faith and comity towards state
courts in matters where the two have concurrent jurisdiction. We therefore shall direct the district court to reverse its action in denying the motion to surrender
through its receivers the property of the estate still in its
custody to the state court receivers. But the surrender
should be only on condition that the state court receivers
produce an order from the state court confirming all that
has been done in the sale of the property, the disposition
of the assets and the distribution thereof as if it had been
by its own decree and shall so shape the pleadings and its
orders that the case may proceed in the state court as a
creditor's bill and a liquidation of all the debts, to enable
it to proceed to the complete distribution of all remaining
assets in liquidation, as it would have had to do, in view
of the insolvency, in a continued administration under the
stockholder's bill. The federal court should, before surrender, fix and pay the compensation due to its officers for
the work done by them and, in doing so, should take care
to fix the compensation within limits which are plainly
reasonable. After this and other preliminaries are attended to, all the assets then in the hands of the receiver
of the federal court shall be turned over for further and
complete distribution in the suit in the Superior Court of
Cook County. If such an order of the state court, as is

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

herein prescribed, is not entered in that court and produced in the federal court in a seasonable time, the pending administration in the federal court under the creditor's
bill shall continue.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
district court are reversed and the case is remanded to the
district court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.

Reversed.
MARLIN v. LEWALLEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 40.

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. The surviving husband of a woman of the Creek blood and tribe,
whether himself of that blood or not, has no estate of curtesy in
land allotted and patented to her in the distribution of the tribal
property under the original and supplemental Creek Agreements,
Acts of March 1, 1901, and June 30, 1902, and of which she died
seized, intestate and leaving issue. Pp. 59, 68.
2. By the Act of June 28, 1898, and prior enactments, tribal laws in
the Indian Territory were displaced and a body of laws adopted
from the statutes of Arkansas was then put in force, for Indians
and whites, except as they might be inapplicable in particular situations or might be superseded as to any of the Five Civilized Tribes
by future agreements. P. 62.
3. Statutes of Arkansas adopted by Act of Congress for the Indian
Territory, carried with them the settled constructions placed upon
them by the Arkansas courts before such adoption. P. 62.
4. Under Chapter 20 of Mansfield's Digest of Arkansas Statutes, as
modified by c. 104, both of which were extended to Indian Territory, curtesy initiate was not recognized and curtesy consummate
was recognized only wheie the wife died seized of the land and
intestate. P. 62.
5. The Creek Agreements, supra, were in the nature of a comprehensive treaty rather than a mere supplement to the fragmentary
legislation that preceded them, were to have full effect regardless
of any inconsistency with that legislation, and are to be construed,

