386

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

KRAUSS BROTHERS LUMBER COMPANY v.
MELLON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 342.

Argued March 7, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.

Exhibits sent by the trial court to the reviewing court may be identified and made part of the bill of exceptions by appropriate reference in the bill itself. P. 391.
18 F. (2d) 369, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 513, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment of the
District Court in an action on a reparation order made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission. The court below
refused to pass on the merits, upon the ground that evidence involved was not in the bill of exceptions.
Mr. Brenton K. Fisk, with whom Messrs. Harry S.
Elkins and J. P. Mudd were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alex. M. Bull, with whom Messrs. Sidney P. Smith
and Sidney F. Andrews were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFrT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Krauss Brothers Lumber Company is a corporation engaged in the wholesale lumber business, to whom the Interstate Commerce Commission, on the complaint of the
company, ordered the respondent railroad companies, the
Mobile & Ohio Railroad and the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company, to pay reparation in the amount
of $10,356 because of unlawful demurrage charges illegally
collected. The sole issue was whether any such power
had been vested in the Commission as would give it juris-

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. MELLON.
386

Opinion of the Court..

diction to decide that the charges should be refunded.
Upon the Commission's decision that it had such power,
the parties, following its suggestion, filed formal stipulations under Rule V of the Commission's practice admitting the amounts of the charges, the illegality of which
had been declared by the Commission; and thereupon
the reparation order was made.
The view of the defendants was that the Commission
had no power to order a return of these demurrage charges,
since by the common law, quite outside the functions
and powers of the Commission, a carrier could reject
a tender of goods for initial transportation while there
were existing embargoes, and in the same way could reject a demand for reconsignment to points embargoed at
the time of initial acceptance for shipment, and so demurrage had accrued until the consignees accepted actual
delivery of the goods. Payment not having been made
on or before December 28, 1922, as directed by the Commission, the present suit was filed by the petitioner as
plaintiff against the respondents as defendants on March
20, 1923, in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Alabama. The complaint conformed to the provisions of ยง 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act, and contained the findings and order of the
Commission as a part thereof.
The case came on for trial, demurrers to the complaint
were overruled, additional counts were inserted by
amendment and a demurrer to them was also overruled.
Thereupon the shipper, as plaintiff, duly introduced in
the evidence the Commission's original finding and other
Commission proceedings, and closed its case. The respondents, over the shipper's objection that the same
were incompetent, were permitted to put in evidence the
original pleadings before the Commission, and the testimony and other exhibits taken and filed in the Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

sion's proceedings. Thereupon the respondents closed
their case and the shipper duly moved for a directed
verdict, which motion was overruled by the District Court
and an exception noted. The respondents thereupon
moved for a directed verdict, which motion was granted
and the shipper duly excepted.
A writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit was then duly taken. The exhibits filed
by the respondents were exceedingly voluminous, there
being, among other things, a complete file of embargo
circulars included as a part of the evidence which had
been placed before the Commission in the hearings before
it. The defeated party was anxious to avoid the printing
of exhibits, which it did not deem of use to the reviewing
court in passing on what it considered the only issue in
the case, and attempted to secure this through stipulation
of counsel and by an order of court. When the case
reached the Circuit Court of Appeals, it declined to pass
upon the merits of the case, for the following reason:
"From the above it is plain that all of the evidence
upon which the case was tried is not in the bill of exceptions. The order of Court sending up the documents in
the original does not purport to make them a part of the
bill of exceptions, the rule of this court could not incorporate them therein, and the agreement of counsel expressly excludes them.
"As applicable to the deficiency of the record here
shown the well settled rule is this. Depositions, exhibits
or certificates not contained in the bill of exceptions can
not be considered even though found in the printed transcript. The parties by their affidavits or agreements can
not cause that to become a bill of exceptions which is not
such in a legal sense. Where instructions of the court
are assigned as error on a motion to direct a verdict or
otherwise, unless the entire evidence pertinent to the

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. MELLON.
386

Opinion of the Court.

question is in the bill, the Appellate Court must presume
that the omitted evidence justified the instruction."
Except as modified by statute, the rules as to bills of
exceptions in the federal courts are the same as they were
at common law. By ยง 17 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch.
20, 1 Stat. 73, 83, all the courts of the United States were
given power to grant new trials in cases where there had
been a trial by jury, for reasons for which new trials had
usually been granted in the courts of law. This was held
to adopt the common law rule on the subject. Parsonsv.
Bedford, 3 Pet. 433. Prior to the statute of Westminster
II, 13th Edw. I, ch. 31, a writ of error at common law
could be had only for an error apparent on the face of
the record, or for an error in fact such as the death of a
party before judgment, but by that old statute, which is
now to be treated as common law, it was provided that exceptions might, by bills of exceptions, be made a part
of the record and so be reached by the writ of error. In
this way so much of the facts of the case as was necessary
to make plain the question of law on which the exception
was founded, was incorporated in the record, but the
trial justice, as a witness to the bill, had to put his seal
to the instrument and, in the reviewing court, might be
commanded to appear at a certain date either to confess
or deny his seal, and then if he could not deny his seal
the court of review proceeded to judgment according to the same exception as it ought to be allowed
or disallowed. Nalle v. Oyster, 230 U. S. 165, 176, 177;
Duncan v. Landis, 106 Fed. 839, 844; Defiance Fruit Co. v.
Fox, 76 N. J. L. 482, 489.
By the Act of June 1, 1872, ch. 255, 17 Stat. 196, 197, it
was provided that a bill of exceptions allowed in any cause
should be deemed sufficiently authenticated if signed by
the judge of the court in which the cause was tried or by
the presiding judge thereof, if more than one judge sat

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

at the trial of the cause, without any seal of the court
annexed thereto, and this became ยง 953 of the Revised
Statutes. Since the passage of that Act, it is not necessary to seal a bill of exceptions. Herbert v. Butler, 97
U. S. 319, 320; Maloney v. Adsit, 175 U. S. 281, 285, but
the signature is still necessary. Origet v. United States,
125 U. S. 240; United States ex rel. Kinney v. United
States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 222 U. S. 283.
Strict requirements are thus insisted on so as to make
certain that the reviewing court shall have before it an
accurate account of the evidence or exhibits, which were
before the trial court in the original hearing of the issues
of the case, properly certified.
The same strictness prevails as to including in the bill
the evidence upon which reliance is had to justify the
exception, if not included in the original record. In many
cases the error complained of rests on a negative showing
that there was no evidence adduced at the trial upon which
the ruling of the court complained of could be predicated.
If a motion is made in the trial court to take the case
from a jury, or other fact-finding tribunal, and direct a
verdict or give judgment on the ground that, as a matter
of law, only one verdict or judgment can be reached, it
must appear that in the bill of exceptions is contained
all the evidence actually adduced before the trial court.
It has always been ruled in such a case that if the bill of
exceptions does not contain all the evidence, it will be
presumed that the evidence omitted was sufficient to
justify a refusal to grant the motion. Russell v. Ely, 2
Black 575, 580; City v. Babcock, 3 Wall. 240, 244; Grand
Trunk Railway Co. v. Cummings, 106 U. S. 700, 701;
Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 606;
Hansenv. Boyd, 161 U. S. 397, 403; UnitedStates v. Copper Queen Mining Co., 185 U. S. 495, 498; Nashua Savings Bank v. Anglo-American Co., 189 U. S. 221, 231. By

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. MELLON.
386

Opinion of the Court.

this it is not meant that the evidence shall be set forth at
length in the words of the witnesses, and of the writings
and documents admitted, but only that the purport and
substance of all of it be included. In setting it forth,
regard should be had to the requirements of paragraph 2
of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed by this Court. 222
U. S., Appendix, p. 8. Lincoln v. Claflin, 7 Wall. 132,
136; Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert, 4 How. 289, 297, 298.
The question here arises because of the alleged omission
of certain exhibits from the bill of exceptions, which the
petitioner contended were not relevant to the issue. Because of this, the Circuit Court of Appeals, of its own
motion, and not by request or consent of either party, applied the rule above stated. We do not think, however:
that the bill of exceptions can be said to have omitted
these exhibits or to have prevented the Circuit Court of
Appeals from considering them with all the evidence. The
bill of exceptions recites that in the trial both parties
appeared by counsel, the jury was impaneled, and that
there were introduced in evidence by the plaintiff exhibits
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, all as described; that they were admitted,
subject to objection and exception as irrelevant, and the
objection was overruled; and that the defendants offered
exhibits No. 7, No. 8, No. 9, No. 10, No. 11 and No. 12, all
as described, and as containing all the testimony, and
also exhibits offered at the hearing before the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and that the plaintiff objected to
the introduction of all those exhibits from No. 7 to No. 12,
and that this objection was overruled and an exception
noted. The bill of exceptions then concluded as follows:
"The plaintiff's exhibits referred to as Exhibit No. 1,
Exhibit No. 2, Exhibit No. 3, Exhibit No. 4, Exhibit No.
5, and the defendants' Exhibit No. 12 are hereinafter set
forth fully as a part of this bill of exceptions. By virtue
of an order of the Presiding Judge W. I. Grubb, plaintiff's

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Exhibit No. 6 and the defendants' exhibits numbers 7, 8,
9, 10 and 11, respectively, are omitted from this bill of
exceptions in order that they may be sent by the Clerk
of the lower court, in compliance with the said order of
the Presiding Judge, direct to the Court of Appeals.
"This was all the evidence in the case.
W. I. GRUBB."
(Signed)
This was followed by the stipulation signed by the at-.
torneys for both plaintiff and defendants, and the order
of the Court, the latter being that referred to in the bill
of exceptions, as follows:
"It appearing to the court that in this cause it is necessary and proper in the opinion of the court that certain
original papers and documents should be inspected in the
Circuit Court of Appeals upon writ of error by said court:
"It is therefore ordered that the following papers, to
wit: Exhibits 6 to 11, inclusive, referred to and described
in the bills of exceptions, be transmitted by the Clerk of
this court to the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals at
New Orleans, La., and returned after the disposition of
the writ of error to the Clerk of this Court.
"The parties to this cause by their respective counsel
do hereby stipulate and agree as follows:
"That the plaintiff's exhibit No. 6 and that the defendants' exhibits 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, may be omitted from
the bill of exceptions, and sent by the Clerk of the trial
court direct to the Court of Appeals in their original form,
and further that the exhibits need not be printed in the
record. This agreement is made in conformity with an
order of the trial court by the presiding judge that said
exhibits, viz: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 shall be omitted from
the record, and sent direct by the Clerk of the trial court
to the Court of Appeals."
While the rule, as we have shown by its history, in respect to the inclusion of all the evidence in the bill of

KRAUSS BROS. CO. v. MELLON.
386

Opinion of the Court.

exceptions must be respected, we must give the recitals
of the bill a reasonable construction. Kleinschmidt v.
McAndrews, 117 U. S. 282, 286; Waldron v. Waldron,
156 U. S. 361. While it may be said that the form in
which this bill of exceptions is sent up is in its parts
Slightly inconsistent in itself and apparently self-contradictory, it is clear that the bill as signed by the trial
judge, and read in the light of the order which is referred
to and identified in the bill, brought and was intended to
bring to the appellate court all of the evidence heard in
the court below, ,and all the exhibits, even those said in
it to be omitted therefrom which were ex industria sent
by order of the court to the court above for that court's
examination. We think that by the references in the bill
the exhibits separately sent by order of the trial court to
the Circuit Court of Appeals are sufficiently identified as
part of the bill. They were omitted from the bill in the
sense only that they were to be sent separately from the
rest of the bill to the reviewing court, perhaps with a
view, rightly or wrongly, to avoiding the necessity of
printing them. But the certificate of the judge certainly
included them in the bill when, after expressly referring
to them, he said "This was all the evidence in the case."
To be sure, it is well settled that exhibits found in the
record, or even annexed to a bill of exceptions, when not
attached to it by way of identifying them as intended to
be part of it, can not be treated as such. Bank v. Kennedy, 17 Wall. 19, 29; Reed v. Gardner,17 Wall. 409, 411;
Jones v. Buckell, 104 U. S. 554; Hanna v. Maas, 122
U. S. 24.
But in Leftwitch v. Lecanu, 4 Wall. 187, on page 189,
Mr. Justice Miller, while exemplifying this principle, said
in rejecting a bill of exceptions:
"If a paper which is to constitute a part of a bill of
exceptions, is not incorporated into the body of the bill,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

it must be annexed to it, or so marked by letter, number,
or other means of identification mentioned in the bill, as
to leave no doubt, when found in the record, that it is the
one referred to in the bill of exceptions."
And again, in Jones v. Buckell, supra, at 556, Chief
Justice Waite, in making a similar ruling, said:
"Of course, evidence may be included in a bill of exceptions by appropriate reference to other parts of the record,
and if that had been done here it might have been
enough."
As we have said, we think the identifying references,
in the bill, to the exhibits are sufficient.
The result is that the Circuit Court of Appeals should
have considered the issues before it on the bill of exceptions as containing all the evidence below, and that the
dismissal for lack of it was erroneous.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings.
Reversed.
J. W. HAMPTON, JR., & COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS
APPEALS.

No. 242. Argued March 1, 1928.-Decided April 9, 1928.
1. Section 315 (a), Title III, of the Tariff Act of Sept. 21, 1922,
empowers and directs the President to increase or decrease duties
imposed by the Act, so as to equalize the differences which, upon
investigation, he finds and ascertains between the costs of producing
at home and in competing foreign countries the kinds of articles to
which such duties apply. The Act lays down certain criteria to be
taken into consideration in ascertaining the differences, fixes certain limits of change, and makes an investigation by the Tariff
Commission, in aid of the President, a necessary preliminary to any
proclamation changing the duties.

