MONT. BANK v. YELLOWSTONE COUNTY. 499
494

Syllabus.

That defendants, long before the suit against them was
begun, knew of the tenant's violation of law, is not
open to reasonable dispute; and their delay until after
suit to take steps to get rid of him, in the face of his
criminal use of the premises, well might be attributed to a
lack of good faith on their part. Nor is it unfair to say
that their failure to act until complaint was served upon
them, evidences a surrender to the unavoidable rather
than a voluntary effort to prevent a renewal of the
nuisance. The trial judge who saw Grosfield and heard
his testimony was better able to pass upon his credibility
and trustworthiness than are we.
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, we find
no ground for disturbing the conclusion upon which the
decree must rest, namely, that the premises ought to be
closed for a period long enough to end the probability of a
recurrence of their unlawful use. We are the more content
with this conclusion, since it is still within the power of
the district court to permit the premises to be occupied
or used upon the giving of a bond with sufficient surety
in the amount and upon the conditions prescribed by the
statute. See United States v. Pepe, supra; Schlieder v.
United States, supra, p. 347.
Decree affirmed.
THE MONTANA NATIONAL BANK OF BILLINGS
v. YELLOWSTONE COUNTY OF MONTANA ET AL.
-ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 207.

Argued January 20, 1928.--Decided April 9, 1928.

1. A substantial discrimination against national banks in favor of
incorporated state banks resulting from taxation of national bank
shares upon a valuation equal to that of the assets of the bank,
including bonds and like securities of the United States, while the
shares of the state banks are not taxed and the state banks them-

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

276 U. S.

selves are taxed only on the value of their assets after excluding
United States bonds and securities, violates Rev. Stats., § 5219.
P. 502.
2. Taxation of shares of state corporate banks must be like that of
shares of national banks, so far as necessary to prevent discrimination; in neither case does the exemption of federal securities
held by the bank apply in taxation of the shares. Des Moines
Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103, distinguished. P. 503.
3. Where the shares of a national bank were taxed and the tax paid,
under statutes then construed by the State Supreme Court as not
permitting shares of state corporate banks to be taxed, but only
the state banks themselves, thus creating a discrimination due to
the inclusion of United States securities owned by the national
bank in the valuation of its shares and to the necessary exclusion
of like securities owned by the state banks in assessing their assets,
held-(1) that the right of the national bank, suing for its shareholders, to challenge the validity of the statutes as so construed
and applied, and to recover the taxes paid, was not affected by a
decision of the State Supreme Court in the suit repudiating the
earlier construction and declaring the state bank shares taxable;
(2) that the fact that under the later decision the taxing officials
were empowered to tax the shares of state banks and thus bring
about equality, was not an obstacle to the suit, no intention to
exercise the power having been manifested; and (3) that failure
to apply to the county board of equalization for administrative
relief was no bar to maintenance of the action, since the board had
no power to grant it under the statute as construed when the taxes
were imposed and collected. P. 504.
78 Mont. 62, reversed.

Error to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Montana,
denying relief in an action by the bank to recover taxes
on its shares collected by the county.
Mr. Horace S. Davis, with whom Messrs. M. S. Gunn,
Rockwood Brown, and R. G. Wiggenhorn were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. L. A. Foot, Attorney General of Montana, with
whom Messrs. A. H. Angstman and C. N. Davidson, As-

MONT. BANK v. YELLOWSTONE COUNTY. 501
499

Opinion of the Court.

sistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error, a banking corporation organized
under the laws of the United States, is engaged in a general commercial banking business in Yellowstone County,
Montana. For the year 1925, an assessment for taxes
was made by the assessor of Yellowstone County upon
the shareholders, based upon the value of their shares
of stock in the bank. The bank owned no real estate. In
pursuance of the assessment, taxes were levied in the
aggregate sum of $3,897.84 and demand was made for the
payment of fifty per cent. of that amount, as provided by
the Montana statutes. The bank paid the sum demanded
under protest, claiming that the assessment and levy and
the statutes of Montana under which they were made
were invalid as being in conflict with Rev. Stats. § 5219,
with certain provisions of the constitution of Montana,
and with the due process and equal protection of law
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. This action was then brought by
the bank in behalf of its shareholders to recover the
amount of the payment. The court of first instance sustained a general demurrer to the complaint and rendered
final judgment against plaintiff in error, which, upon
appeal to the state supreme court, was affirmed. 78
Mont. 62.
Here the argument is confined to the question whether
there is a violation of the restriction upon the state power
of taxation contained in Rev. Stats. § 5219 that the taxation of shares of national banking associations "shall not
be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

The contention that the laws of Montana, under which
the assessment and levy were made, contravene this
restriction, rests upon the fact that shares of national
banks were valued for assessment purposes at an amount
equivalent to the value of the corporate assets, including
Liberty Loan bonds and similar securities of the United
States, and were taxed accordingly, while shares of state
banks were not assessed or taxed at all, and the banks
themselves were taxed upon the value of their assets,
after excluding such bonds and similar securities.
It is clear that the state statutes, as construed by the
state supreme court in the present case, do not produce
the discrimination asserted or any discrimination in favor
of the moneyed capital employed by state banks in competition with national banks. That court now holds that
the provisions of the state constitution and statutes
require the state to tax the property of every state bank
and also the shares to the extent that they have a value
beyond that of the taxable property of the bank. In
assessing and imposing taxes upon the corporations, the
value of the United States securities owned by the
corporations is excluded, because such securities are
exempted from state taxation by the laws of the United
States. But in the taxation of shares of state as well as
of national banks, the value of these securities, so far as
it contributes to the value of the shares, is included,
because the shares are the property of the shareholders
distinct from the corporate assets, which are the property
of the banks. See Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines,
205 U. S. 503, 518.
If this were all, there would be no discrimination within
the meaning of the federal law. But it is not all. The
assessment, as actually made, clearly violated the restriction in § 5219 here relied upon; and it was made in conformity with the state statutes as construed by the state
supreme court in the earlier case of East Helena State

MONT. BANK v. YELLOWSTONE COUNTY. 503
499

Opinion of the Court.

Bank v. Rogers, 73 Mont. 210. In that case the requirement of the statutes, so far as it applied to state banks,
was stated by the court as follows (p. 217):
"This state had the option to tax the shares of stock in
state banks to the individual shareholders, or to tax the
property of such banks to the banks themselves. It could
not tax both at the same time. (Sec. 17, Art. XII, Constitution of Montana.) If it had chosen the first alternative, it might then have assessed the shares at their full
cash value without reference to the character of the securities in which the bank's funds were invested (Van
Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 18 L. Ed. 229 [see, also,
Rose's U. S. Notes]); but it chose to tax the property of
the banks, and must abide the consequences."
The taxing officials, conforming to this construction of
the state law, as they were bound to do, while they
assessed, levied and collected the tax now under review,
laid no tax whatever upon shares of state banking corporations, although, as the record shows, these shares had
a very large taxable value over and above the value of
the taxable property of the banks, due to the ownership
by the banks of tax-exempt federal securities. That this
resulted in a substantial discrimination against plaintiff
in error within the meaning of the restriction contained
in § 5219 does not admit of doubt. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 581; Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121
U. S. 138, 148, 152; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664, 677.
Nevertheless, it is contended for the defendants in
error that, since the exemption from taxation of the federal securities in the hands of the state banks is created
by federal statute, the discrimination is one which the
state could not avoid. It is said that it was so decided in
Des Moines Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103. But this
view of that decision is entirely erroneous. The statutes
of Iowa there under review expressly provide that shares

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

of stock in national banks and state and savings banks
and loan and trust companies located in the state shall
be assessed to the individual stockholders; and shares of
national banks and those of competing state corporations
are put, for purposes of taxation, upon terms of exact
equality. The provision of the Iowa statute which was
assailed related to the assessment of capital employed by
individual bankers (p. 105); and this Court held that the
restriction of § 5219 was not violated because the state,
perforce, allowed a deduction of federal securities in
assessing the capital of such individual bankers; that the
federal law made such securities exempt and the state
merely respected the exemption. P. 117. The decision
in no way affects the rule (Van Allen v. Assessors and
other cases, supra) that in respect of the taxation of state
corporate banks, the shares must be taxed as they are in
the case of national banks, so. far as necessary to prevent
discrimination, and that, in neither case, does the exemption of federal securities apply in the taxation of such
shares.,,
It is true that the state supreme court in the present
case expressly repudiated the construction theretofore
put by it upon the statestatutes in the Rogers case, supra,
and, as already stated, adopted one to the exact contrary. But that does not cure the mischief which had
been done under the earlier construction. That construction had already been acted upon by the taxing officials
and the application thus made of the statutes had given
rise to the present cause of action and an undoubted
right to recover thereon. The statutes, as thus construed and applied to the concrete facts of the case, were
invalid; and this is enough to justify the challenge here
under consideration. Cudahy Co. v. Parramore,263 U. S.
418, 422; Ward & Gow v. Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503, 510.
Plaintiff in error cannot be deprived of its legal right to
recover the amount of the tax unlawfully exacted of it

DONNELLEY v. UNITED STATES.
499

Syllabus.

by the later decision which, while repudiating the construction under which the unlawful exaction was made,
leaves the monies thus exacted in the public treasury.
But it is said that the taxing officers of the county, in
view of the later decision, now have the power to tax the
shares of state banks and thus bring about an equality.
As to this it is unnecessary to say more than that it nowhere appears that these officers, if they possess the
power, have undertaken to exercise it or that they have
any intention of ever doing so. It will be soon enough
to invite consideration of this purely speculative suggestion when, if ever, the taxing officials shall have put it
into practical effect.
Finally, it is urged that plaintiff in error may not maintain this action because of its failure to apply to the
county board of equalization for an administrative remedy. We do not stop to inquire whether under any circumstances such remedy was open to the taxpayer, for
the short answer is that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Montana in the Rogers case would have rendered any such application utterly futile since the county
board of equalization was powerless to grant any appropriate relief in the face of that conclusive decision. See
Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319, 321; Whitbeck v.
Mercantile Bank, 127 U. S. 193, 199. Compare, First
Natl. Bank v. Weld County, 264 U. S. 450, 454-455.
Judgment reversed.
DONNELLEY'v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110.

Argued November 22, 1927. Reargued January 19,1928.Decided April 9, 1928.

1. After certification of a question by the Circuit Court of Appeals,

the entire record was ordered up. Plaintiff in error filed no state-

