10

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

276 U. S.

pensation unless sanctioned by proper order of court.
Reception then or now of a gratuity from any party
would be indefensible, and whether or no the corporations
which paid him by direction of the court are satisfied with
the result is now unimportant. He has long been an
attorney and counsellor authorized to practice at this bar
under the sanction of an oath to demean himself "uprightly, and according to law." Notwithstanding the adjudication here that excessive fees had been allowed by
orders granted in abuse of judicial discretion, he has retained them for more than five years. He knew that
he had got unearned money by improper orders of court,
but he decided to keep it. Such conduct is far from
"upright and according to law" within the fair intendment of those terms.
Further action will be postponed until Monday, February 20th, 1928. The respondent will present himself at
that time and report in writing concerning efforts made
'to comply with his obligations.
FINANCE AND GUARANTY COMPANY v.
OPPENHIMER, TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 170.

Argued January 13, 1928.-Decided January 23, 1928.

1. Section 5224 of the Code of Virginia providing that all property
used in his business by a person trading in his own name shall, as to
his creditors, be liable for his debts, means lien creditors. P. 11.
2. Where property sold on condition reserving title in the vendor is
retaken by him in accordance with the state law within four months
preceding the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against the vendee,
the vendee's trustee in bankruptcy acquires no lien upon it, and the
retaking cannot be set aside as an unlawful preference under the
Bankruptcy Act. P. 12.
5 F. (2d) 486; 15 F. (2d) 1011, reversed.

FINANCE & GUAR. CO. v. OPPENHIMER.
10

11

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARi, 273 U. S. 689, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, sustaining a judgment for the respondent, as trustee in bankruptcy, in his action to recover from
petitioner the value of automobiles which petitioner had
retaken from the bankrupt before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, pursuant to his right under a conditional sale.

Mr. S. M. Brandt for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph M. Hurt, Jr., with whom Mr. J. Vaughan
Gary was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit brought by the respondent, trustee in
bankruptcy for W. A. Lee, to recover the value of four
automobiles seized by the defendant, the petitioner, in
circumstances alleged to have made the taking a preference if maintained. The defendant sold the automobiles
to the bankrupt by a duly recorded contract of conditional sale. On January 10, 1921, it repossessed itself of
the cars by a suit in detinue. Ten days later, on January
20, the petition in bankruptcy was filed against Lee, and
on February 25, he was adjudicated a bankrupt. About
a year later the trustee brought this suit relying upon the
Traders' Act, ยง 5224 of the Code of Virginia, by which, it
may be assumed, all the property used by Lee in his business, including these cars, "shall as to the creditors of
any such person, be liable for the debts of such person."
The trustee prevailed in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Opinion, 5 F. (2d) 486. Formal conclusion, 15 F. (2d)
1011. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
273 U. S. 689.
We are of opinion that the decision was wrong for the
reason given by the dissenting judge below. The Su-

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

preme Court of Appeals of Virginia has construed the
Traders' Act and has established that "the creditors" in
ยง 5224 means creditors having a lien. Capital Motor
Corporation v. Lasker, 138 Va. 630. The lien of the
trustee in bankruptcy did not arise until after the property in question had come back to the hands of the petitioner, which had reserved title to itself. Bailey v. Baker
Ice Machine Co., 239 U. S. 268, 270. Martin v. Commercial National Bank, 245 U. S. 513, 517, Bankruptcy Act,
ยง 47 (a) (2) as amended. U. S. C., Title 11, ยง 75. Therefore the retaking of the property was valid as against the
trustee. It could not work a preference unless he represented a claim that was paramount when the property
was seized. At that time the petitioner did what it had a
right to do as against the bankrupt and simply took what
was its own. It did no wrong to any creditor, for no
creditor not having a judgment or other lien could have
complained so far as the law of Virginia went. See Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. v. Cross, 17 F. (2d) 417, 421, 422.
The majority in the Circuit Court of Appeals took the
distinction between a trustee under a conventional deed
of trust for the benefit of creditors and a trustee in bankruptcy, that the former has no power to vacate preferences. But, as we have implied, a party holding security
does not create a preference by taking possession under it
within four months if he lawfully may under the law of
the State. Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516.
Humphrey v. Tatman, 198 U. S. 91.
We understand it to be admitted that the plaintiff is
entitled to judgment for seven hundred dollars for property not covered by the petitioner's title, that amount
having been allowed by the District Court, although it
held as we do that the seizure was lawful. We follow the
judgment in that respect. With this understanding the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed.
Judgment reversed.

