OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.
BOUNTIFUL BRICK COMPANY

ET AL

276 U. S.

V. GILES

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 193.

Argued January 18, 1928.-Decided February 20, 1928.

1. Liability may constitutionally be imposed under a workmen's compensation law where there was a causal connection between the
injury suffered by an employee and the employment in which he
was engaged at the time, substantially contributing to the injury.

P. 158.
2. If the employee be injured while passing, with the express or implied consent of the employer, to or from his work over the premises of another in such proximity and relation to the premises of
the employer as to be in practical effect a part of them, the injury
is one arising out of and in the course of the employment as much
as though it had happened while the employee was engaged in his
work at the place of its performance. P. 158.
3. Award of compensation to a brickyard employee who was killed
by a railroad train while crossing the right of way, off the public
road, on his way to work-held consistent with the Fourteenth
Amendment, in view of the facts stated in the opinion.
68 Utah 600, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah,
affirming an award of compensation made by the State
Industrial Commission against the Brick Company for
the death of one of its employees.

Mr. Henry D. Moyle for plaintiffs in error.
Injuries to employees, going to or returning from place
of employment, or after leaving on personal errands, are
not compensable. Dambold v. Industrial Comm., 323
Ill. 377; St. Louis Coal Co. v. Industrial Comm., 325 Ill.
574; United Disposal Co. v. Industrial Comm., 291 Ill.
480; Terminal Ass'n v. Industrial Comm., 309 Ill. 203;
Polko v. Taylor-McCoy Co., 289 Penn. 401; Whitney v.
Hazard Lead Works, 105 Conn. 512; Georgia Ry. Co. v.
Clore, 34 Ga. App. 409; London Guaranty Co. v. Smith,
290 S. W. 774; Industrial Comm. v. Enyeart, 81 Colo.

BOUNTIFUL BRICK CO. v. GILES.
154

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

521; Ditzler Poultry Co. v. Forsythe, 86 Ind. App. 136,
McKenzie v. Industrial Comm., XXIV Oh. L. Rep. 480;
Simonds v. Reigel, 165 Minn. 458; Paulauskis' Case, 135
Atl. 824; Kinslow's Case, 136 Atl. 724; Reed v. Bliss Co.,
225 Mich. 164; Kent v. Virginia-CarolinaCo., 143 Va. 62;
Devoe v. New York Ry., 218 N. Y. 318; Norris v. N. Y. C.
R. R. Co., 220 App. Div. (N. Y.) 359; McMahon v. B. T.
& J. J. Mack, 222 N. Y. S. 79; Leveroni v. Travelers' Ins.
Co., 219 Mass. 488; Bell's Case, 238 Mass. 46; Mazeffe v.
Comm., 106 Kans. 796; De Constantin v. Comm., 75
W. Va. 32; Covey-BallardMotor Co. v. IndustrialComm.,
64 Utah 1; North Point Irrigation Co. v. Industrial
Comm., 61 Utah 421; Harrisv. Henry Cheney Corp., 221
App. Div. IN. Y.) 205; Clapp's ParkingStation v. Industrial Comm., 51 Cal. App. 624.
This case is to be considered as though the Utah statute had, in specific terms, provided "for liability upon
the precise facts constituting the case at bar. Cudahy
Packing Co. v. Parramore, 263 U. S. 418; Ward v.
Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503.
Industrial Acts do not protect workmen while crossing railroad private rights of way, in going to and coming
from their places of employment. Dambold v. Industrial Comm., 323 Ill. 377; Leveroni v. Travelers' Ins. Co.,
219 Mass. 488; Terminal Ass'n v. Industrial Comm., 309
Ill. 203; St. Louis Coal Co. v. Industrial Comm., 325 Ill.
574; Georgia Ry. Co. v. Clore, 34 Ga. App. 409; Bell's
Case, 238 Mass. 46.
The Utah Court has repeatedly held that injuries to
employees on their way to and from their place of employment do not arise out of or in the course of their
employment, and are therefore not compensable. CoveyBallard Co. v. Industrial Comm., 64 Utah 1; North Point
IrrigationCo. v. Industrial Comm., 61 Utah 421; Cudahy
Packing Co. v. Industrial Comm., 60 Utah 161.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

Mr. Samuel B. Horovitz, with whom Mr. Charles H.
Houston was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for determination is whether the Utah
Workmen's Compensation Act (Comp. Laws, Utah, 1917,
ยง 3133, and subsequent amendments), which provides
compensation for personal injury or death of an employee
by accident "arising out of or in the course of his employment," as it was construed and applied to the facts
by the court below, contravenes the due process of law
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is difficult to make a satisfactory statement of the
facts from the evidence because of the absence from
the record of a plat of the premises which was used before
the state industrial commission and referred to by the
witnesses, particular places, position of railway tracks, etc.,
being pointed out by references to the plat. But considering the testimony in connection with the findings of the
industrial commission and of the court below, the following is a fair summary:
On June 17, 1925, Nephi Giles, an employee of the
brick company, while crossing the tracks of the Bamberger Electric Railroad Company on his way to work, was
struck by a train and killed. The yard of the brick company is on the west side of the railway tracks immediately
adjacent thereto, and connected therewith, as the commission found, by a spur. The railroad tracks run north
and south. Giles resided-and the evidence indicates that
the employees generally resided--easterly from the railway tracks. In going from their homes to the brickyard,
it was impossible to avoid crossing the railway tracks.
There was a public crossing, called the Burns road, about
200 yards south of the brickyard. The right of way of

BOUNTIFUL BRICK CO. v. GILES.
154

Opinion of the Court.

the railway company opposite the yard was fenced on
both sides. Giles, as well as other employees, in going to
work, sometimes followed the Burns road to the railway
crossing, and then went north along the railway tracks
to the northeast corner of the brickyard and thence
through a gap in the fence to the north entrance of the
yard; and sometimes employees, including Giles, entered
the right of way through the east fence at other points
north of the Burns road, and thence crossed the tracks
more or less directly to the gap. This varied practice was
well known to the company and carried on without objection on its part. It was possible to reach the brickyard by following the Burns road across the railway
tracks and for a distance west, and thence northerly and
easterly to the west entrance of the yard, but this way
was long, circuitous and inconvenient, and, so far as the
evidence shows, not used. A deep open ditch lying north
of the road prevented access to the south end of the
brickyard.
The manager of the company testified that he knew of
the many ways by which the employees crossed the tracks;
that he had seen Giles coming in all ways; that he cautioned Giles a number of times to be careful, but did not
instruct him or any of the employees to discontinue these
methods of crossing.
On the occasion of the accident which resulted in his
death, Giles entered the Bamberger right of way through
the wire fence on the east side at a point nearly opposite
the gap in the west fence. He was struck while proceeding across the tracks to this point of exit.
From these facts the industrial commission found the
company liable and made an award accordingly, which the
court below affirmed. 68 Utah -.
Whether Giles was negligent in entering through the
fence where he did, or in crossing the tracks, or in not

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

276 U. S.

selecting the safest way, are matters not relevant to the
inquiry. Liability was constitutionally imposed under
the Utah compensation law if there was a causal connection between the injury and the employment in which
Giles was then engaged substantially contributing to the
injury. Cudahy Co. v. Parramore,263 U. S. 418, 423-425.
And employment includes not only the actual doing of the
work, but a reasonable margin of time and space necessary
to be used in passing to and from the place where the
work is to be done. If the employee be injured while
passing, with the express or implied consent of the employer, to or from his work by a way over the employer's
premises, or over those of another in such proximity and
relation' as to be in practical effect a part of the employer's
premises, the injury is one arising out of and in the course
of the employment as much as though it had happened
while the employee was engaged in his work at the place
of its performance. In other words, the employment may
begin in point of time before the work is entered upon and
in point of space before the place where the work is to be
done is reached. Probably, as a general rule, employment
may be said to begin when the employee reaches the entrance to the employer's premises where the work is to
be done; but it is clear that in some cases the rule extends
to include adjacent premises used by the employee as a
means of ingress and egress with the express or implied
consent of the employer. Id., p. 426. And see generally,
Procaccinov. Horton & Sons, 95 Conn. 408; Merlino v.
Connecticut Quarries Co., 93 Conn. 57; Corvi v. Stiles &
Reynolds Brick Co., 103 Conn. 449; Starr Piano Co. v.
Industrial Acc. Com., 181 Cal. 433, 436-438; Sundine's
Case, 218 Mass. 1, 4.
In the Parramorecase the same Utah statute was under
consideration, and we held that it was valid as applied to
the case of an employee who, while on his way to work,

BOUNTIFUL BRICK CO. v. GILES.
154

Opinion of the Court.

was killed by a locomotive at a public crossing on a railroad adjacent to his employer's factory. There, as here,
it was necessary for the employees, in order to get to the
place of work, to cross the tracks, and they were in effect
invited by the employer to do so. The difference between
the two cases is that in the former the crossing customarily
used was entirely upon a public road, while here the way
followed was in part along the railway tracks and by crossings within the railroad right of way wherever the employees upon their own volition might choose to go.
The present case, though it comes nearer the border
line, falls within the principle of the Parramore case.
Since the only way of access to its brickyard from the east
was across the railway tracks, the company necessarily
contemplated the crossing of them by its employees. No
definite line of travel being indicated by the company or
followed by the employees, who, with the company's full
knowledge and acquiescence, habitually crossed wherever
they saw fit, it results that, however the crossing was
made, the risk thereby incurred was reasonably incidental
to the employment and became annexed as an implied
term thereof. If it were necessary to strengthen the implication of consent on the part of the company to the
crossing by any way its employees chose to take, it would
be enough to refer to the testimony of the manager, who,
knowing of the practice, did not. forbid it, but in effect
approved it by warning Giles simply to be careful.
It is said that Giles was a trespasser upon the railroad
right of way; but if that be established by the evidence,
the answer is that, if the company, not being the owner,
could under any circumstances defend upon that ground
(Daltry v. Electric Light Co., 208 Pa. 403, 411-412), it
cannot avail itself of the defense here because it consented to the trespass.
Judgment affirmed.

