UNITED STATES v. BURNISON.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. BURNISON
NO.

17 1.

APPEAL FROM

ET AL.

THE SUPREME COURT OF

CALIFORNIA.*

Argued December 13, 1949.-Decided March 13, 1950.
Section 27 of the Probate Code of California, as construed by the
highest court of the StAte, prevent. .a California doniiciliary from
making an uirpstricted testamentary gift to the United States
.of property, reql or 1e)rsonal, located within the State, although
such. a gift may be made to the State, its counties or municipal
cornorations. Held:
1. The constriiction of the section by the highest court of the
State is binding here, but the question of its validity under the
Federal Constitution is for this Court to determine. P. 89.
2. The section, as construed, does not violate the, Supremacy
Clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 90-93.
(a) The power of the United States to receive testamentary
gifts does not preclude a State from denying a testator the right
to will his property to tie United States. United States v. Fox,
94 U. S. 315. Pp. 90-93.
(b) The Tenth Amendment reserves to the States the power to
determine the manner of testamentary transfer of a domiciliary's
property and the power to determine who may be made beneficiaries. Pp. 91-93.
(c) In the determination of the question here involved, no
distinction is to be drawn between realty and personalty. P. 93.
3 The section, as construed, does not discriminate against the
United States in violation of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 93-95.
(a) Decisions upholding the right of persons to sue in state
courts on federally created rights are not in point here. Pp. 93-94.
(b) Assuming that the United States is protected by the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the section is
nevertheless justified by the State's close 'relationship to its residents and their property. P. 95.
33 Cal. 2d 638, 647, 204 P. 2d 330, 335, affirmed.
*Together with No. 188, United States v. Gayetty et al., also on
appeal from the same court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949,.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

The Supreme Court of California held void under state
law certain testamentary gifts to the United States and
directed that the property be distributed to the statutory
heirs of each decedent. 33 Cal. 2d 638, 647, 204: P. 2d
330, 335. On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 95.
Melvin Richter argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Morison, Joseph W. Bishop,
Jr. and Paul A. Sweeney.
J. Harold Decker argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief for appellees in No. 188 was J. P.
Patterson.
Casper A. Ornbaun and Everett H. Roan filed a brief
for Burnison; and Frank J. Fontes was of counsel for
Katz, appellees in No. 171.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion Of the Court.

These appeals involve the power of the California
Supreme Court to declare invalid testamentary dispositions to the United States by two California residents.
The bequest to the United States in No. 171 included
only personal property; in No. 188 the United States
was designated to receive both real property and United
States bonds. The situs of all the property is assumed
to be California. After appropriate procedural steps, the
California Supreme Court held void these testamentary
gifts and directed that they be distributed to the statutory
heirs of each decedent.' The two cases were consolidated
for argument below and will be considered here in one
opinion.
Estate of Burnison, 33 Cal. 2d'638, 204 P. 2d 330; Estate of
Sanborn, 33 Cal. 2d 647, 204 P. 2d 335.

UNITED STATES v. BURNISON.
Opinion of the Court.

87

The California court construed § 27 of the California

Probate Code 2 to prevent a California domiciliary from
making an unrestricted testamentary gift to the United
States, although such a gift may be made to California,
The court arits counties and municipal corporations
rived at this interpretation despite the contention of the
United States that it would raise serious constitutional
questions. The construction of the California Code by
the California Supreme Court is, of course, binding on
us. It.leaves us, however, with the federal constitutional
questions that the United States urged the California
court to avoid.
2

Probate Code of California, § 27:

"ll"ho may take by will. A testamentary disposition may be made
to the state, to counties, to municipal corporations, to natural persons
capable by law of taking the property, to unincorporated religious,
benevolent or fraternal societies or associations or lodges or branches
thereof, and to corporations formed for religious, scientific, literary,
or solely educational or hospital or sanatorium purposes, or primarily
for the public preservation of forests and natural scenery, or to maintain public libraries, museums or art galleries, or for similar public
purposes. No other corporation can take under a will, unless expressly authorized by statute."
3 One judge dissented on the authority of Estate of Hendrix, 77
Cal. App. 2d 647, 651-53, 176 P. 2d 898, 400-402. The Hendrix will
bequeathed property to the United States Veterans' Administration
for the aid, comfort and assistance of disabled veterans. The California District Court of Appeal, at 651, declared that this was really
a bequest to the United States, a corporation, and that its agency,
the designated beneficiary, was expressly authorized by California
Probate Code § 27 to take property under a will. Thus the bequest
was valid.- In its opinion in the present case, the Supreme Court held
that this qanguage had been unnecessary to the decision and refused
to extend it to the gifts- now under consideration. It thought that
the Hendrix gift was good as one for charitable purposes to a legally
constituted institution. The Supreme Court thought a gift to the
United States "without qualification as to administration or purpose,"
33 Cal. 2d 646, 204 P. 2d 335, did not come under the classifications
of associations or corpoiations in § 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S

In these appeals the United States makes two contentions. It urges that the California Code, as interpreted, violates the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution
in that it infringes upon the "inherent sovereign power"
of the United States to receive testamentary gifts. Alternatively it argues that the Code effects an unconstitutional discrimination against the National Government, since a testamentary gift may be made by a
Californian to California, but may not he made to the
United States.
We have -no doubt that the receipt of gifts, testamentary and nontestamentary, is within the ambit of federal
powers. Uninterrupted usage from the foundation of the
Government has sanctioned it. The first question here,
therefore, is whether the power to receive testamentary
gifts reaches so far as to forbid a state to deny a testator
the right to will. his property to the United States.
To answer this question affirmatively would require us
to overrule United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315, decided
at the 1876 Term by a unanimous Court and frequently
cited with approval. A devise of New York realty to
the United States had been heid void by the Court of
Appeals 4 under a New York statute that declared land
in New York could be devised only to natural persons
and such corporations as New York had expressly authorized to take by devise. Although it :was not specifically urged that the Supremacy Clause precludes a
state's interference with the power of the United States
to receive testamentary gifts, this point was necessarily
'involved in the United States' argument that the New
York prohibition violated an essential attribute of national sovereignty-the right to acquire property by all
methods known to the law. In affirming, this Court held
Matter of Will of Fox, 52 N. Y. 530.

UNITED STATES v. BURNISON.
87

Opinion of the Court.

that the power to control devises of property was in the
State, and that therefore a person must "devise his lands
in that State within the limitations of the statute or he
cannot devise them at all." '
In asking us to overrule the Fox case, the United States
contends that since it has the power to accept testamentary gifts, the Supremacy Clause bars a state from stopping this stream of federal revenue at its sour2e. The
argument is that every authorized activity of the United
States represents an exercise of its governmental power,6
and that therefore the power to receive property through
a will is a governmental power.. Since a state cannot interpose "an obstacle to the effective operation of a federal
constitutional power,"' the Government argues a state
cannot interfere with this power to receive. This argument fails to recognize that the state acts upon the power
of its domiciliary to give and not on the United States'
power to receive. As a legal concept a transfer of property may be looked upon as a single transaction or it may
be separated into a series of steps. The approach chosen
may determine legal consequences.8 Where powers flow
so distinctly from different sources as do the power to
will and the power. to receive, we think the validity of
each step is to be treated separately.
The United States would have no semblance of a claim
here were it not for wills probated under California law.
The Fox case is only one of a long, line of cases which have
consistently held that part of the residue of sovereignty
retained by the states, a residue insured by the Tenth
5 United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315, 321.
C Graves v. New York ex ret. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 477; Pittman

v. Home Owners' Loan Corp., 308 U. S. 21, 32; Federal Land Bank
v. Bismarck Lumber Co., 314 U. S. 95, 102.
7 United States v..Belmont, 301 U. S. 324, 331-32.
s Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

Amendment,9 is the power to determine the manner of
testamentary transfer of a domiciliary's property and the
power to determine who may be made beneficiaries. ° It
would be anomalous to hold that, because of an amorphous doctrine of national sovereignty, federal constitutional law reached into a California statute and made
impotent that state's restrictions on the designation of
beneficiaries.
The United States' argument leads to the conclusion
that no obstruction whatever may be put in the way of
the United States' power to receive by will. Thus the
United States could claim rights under the will of a testator whom the state had declared incompetent, or under a
will that had not been witnessed and attested according
to the laws of the state. The United States could take
to the complete exclusion of a surviving spouse, notwithstanding the state law.
The case of United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625,
makes clear that obstacles may be put by states to the
passage of property by will to the United States. There
the New York Court of Appeals had upheld the application of the New York inheritance tax to personalty bequeathed the United States. Although there is no doubt
that where the United States acts in its sovereign capacity, it is free from state taxes on that activity," this Court,
in affirming, said:
"Certainly, if it be true that the right of testamentary
disposition is purely statutory, the State has a right
9 United States v. Sprague, 282 U. S. 716, 733; United States v.
Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 123.
"0Mager v. Grima, 8 How. 490, 493-94; United States v. Fox, 94
U. S. 315, 321; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S.625, 627, 628;
Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S.115, 137; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.
525, 536; Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, 193; Irving Trust Co. v. Day,
314 U. S. 556, 562; Demorest v. City Bank Co., 321 U. S.36, 48.
1"Mayo v. United States, 319 U. S.441.

UNITED STATES v. BURNISON.
87

Opinion of the Court.

to require a contribution to the public treasury before
the bequest shall take effect ...
"We think that it follows from this that the act in
question is not open to the objection that it is an
attempt to tax the property of the United States,
since the tax is imposed upon the legacy before it
reaches the hands of the government. The legacy
becomes the property of the United States only after
it has suffered a diminution to the amount of the
tax, and it is only upon this condition that the legislature assents to a bequest of it." 12
We shall not overrule the Fox case, and, of course,
we find no distinction between realty and personalty.
Within broad limits, the state has power to say what is
devisable and to whom it may be given. We may assume
with the United States that the state's power over testamentary gifts is not absolute,"3 but we find nothing in the
Supremacy Clause which prohibits the state from preventing its domiciliary from willing property to the Fed14
eral Government.
The alternative contention is that § 27 of the Probate
Code, as interpreted, discriminates against the United
States in violation of the Constitution. The argument
is that even if the Supremacy Clause would not be vio12

United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, 628, 630.

13Clark

v. Allen, 331 U. S. 503.

Cf. Oyama v. California, 332

U. S. 633.
14 As was pointed out in the Fox case, our determination does not
affect the right of the United States to acquire property by purchase
or eminent domain in the face of a prohibitory statute of the state.
Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367. An authorized declaration of
taking or a requisition will put realty or persoialty at the (isposal
of the United States for "just compensation." It may tax testamentary transfers. Its powers will not suffer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

lated if the statute provided that no governmental body
could be made the beneficiary of a California will, there
is a violation of the Supremacy Clause when the United
States is treated less advantageously than California.
Apparently the capacity of the United States to receive
gifts is analogized to the right of a person to sue on a
federal cause of action in a state court. Reliance is placed
on the cases which have held that federal rights must be
enforced by the courts of a state when "ordinary jurisdiction as prescribed by local laws is appropriate to the
occasion." " Thus, urges appellant, since state courts
may not discriminate in the availability of judicial relief
between state created rights and federally created rights,
no more can a state discriminate between California and
the United States as beneficiaries under wills.
When a state refuses to hear pleas based on federally
created rights while it takes cognizance of those created
by state law, there may be invalid discrimination because
by the Supremacy Clause federal laws are made laws of
the state." Therefore to allow a suit based on state law
and to refuse one based on federal law could "discriminate" without any reason for the classification." But the
United States' capacity to receive, even though called a
"right" or a "power," is not a "law of the state." As we
have shown in the earlier discussion, that capacity cannot be magically transformed into something that must
be enforced. The cases upholding the rights of persons
to sue are not ir, point.
15 Seccnd Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 56; Douglas v.
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 279 U. S. 377; McKnett v. St. Louis
& S. F. R. Co., 292 U. S. 230.
16 Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 136; Second Employers' Liability Cases, supra,.67.
11 McKnett v. St. Louis & S. F. R. Co., supra, 234; cf. Douglas v.
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., supra.

UNITED STATES v. BURNISON.
87

Opinion of the Court.

In a sense, of course, the United States is being treated
differently from California, and differences and distinctions in a state's treatment of persons are frequently
claimed to be discriminatory in violation of the Equal
Protection and Privileges and Immunities Clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment. But such differences* and distinctions, even when applied to persons clearly protected
by the Fourteenth Amendment, are not in themselves
unconstitutional. It is only when the variations are
arbitrary and without reasonable legal basis that an
unconstitutional discrimination occurs. A long line of
decisions has molded this judicial concept. 8 Thus, although we should make the somewhat dubious assum5tion that the United States must receive equal protection
under the Fourteenth Amendment, there is no constitutional violation. California's decision to permit only
itself and its subordinate municipalities to be unlimited
governmental beneficiaries under the wills of its domiciliaries is based on a permissible distinction. It is justified by reason of the state's close relationship with its
residents and their property. 19 A state may by statute
properly prefer itself in this way, just as states have
always preferred themselves in escheat.
Affirmed.
Ma JUSTICE BLACK dissents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
18 E. g., Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123; Rast v.
Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; La Tourette v. McMaster,
248 U. S. 465; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525; New York Rapid
Transit Corp. v. City of New York, 303 U. S. 573; Queenside Hills
Realty Co. v. Saxl, 328 U. S. 80.
19 Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S. 553; cf. Connecticut
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Moore, 333 U. S. 541, 551.
874433 6------11

