OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

339 U. S.

ROBERTS v. UNITEL STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ON

MOTION

FOR

LEAVE TO

FILE PETITION FOR

WRIT OF

MANDAMUS.

No. 2, Misc.

Argued March 31, 1950.-Decided June 5, 1950.

1. Whether one is a "citizen" for the purpose of in forma pauperis
proceedings in the federal courts under 28 U. S. C. § 1915 is a
question solely of federal law. Pp. 844-845.
2. Congress has not prescribed loss of. citizenship for conviction of
crimes other than desertion and treason. P. 845.
3. An order of a Federal District Court denying a motion for leave
to proceed in forma pauperis is appealable to the Court of Appeals
under 28 U.S.C. § 1291. P. 845.
4. Petitioner's motion in this Court for leave to file a petition for a
writ of mandamus to the District Court is denied, because of the
ambiguous state of the record in the case and the fact that denial
of the motion will not prejudice further applications by petitioner
for leave to Rroceed in forma pauperis. P. 845.
Motion denied.

Max Radin, acting under an assignment by the Court,
argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
No appearance for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner, who is confined in a California state prison,
sought to file a petition in forma pauperis for a writ of
injunction in the District Court below. That court
denied leave to proceed in forma pauperis, holding that
petitioner was not entitled to the benefits of 28 U. S. C.
§ 1915 because he was no longer a "citizen" as required
by that section. The District Court reached that decision in reliance on California Penal Code § 2600, which
provides that one sentenced to imprisonment for a term

ROBERTS v. U. S. DISTRICT COURT.
844

845

Opinion of the Court.

of years is deprived of his civil rights for the period of
imprisonment. The decision of the District Court is in
error. Citizenship for the purpose of in forma pauperi8
proceedings in the federal courts is solely a matter of
federal law. Congress has not specified criminal convictions, except for desertion and treason, as grounds for
loss of citizenship. 8 U. S. C. § 801.
Petitioner thereafter filed a motion in the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for allowance of an appeal
from the order of the District Court. The denial by a
District Judge of a motion to proceed in forma pauperis
is an appealable order. 28 U. S. C. § 1291; see Cohen v.
Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp., 337 U. S. 541 (1949).
The Court of Appeals, however, held that it had "no
power to grant an application for allowance of an appeal,"
and dismissed the petition.
Finally, petitioner filed in this Court a motion for leave
to file a petition for a writ of mandamus to the District
Court. Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, available
only in rare cases. Ex parte Collett, 337 U. S. 55, 72
(1949), and cases there cited. Because of the ambiguous
state of this record, and the fact that a denial of this
motion will not prejudice petitioner in further attempts
to proceed in forma pauperis the motion must be denied.
It isso ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

