CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

to Reeies's -listory bf the Law;

all, to the venerable Braoton, lib.

to I Reeves'sHis- S., fol. 3 27q ct seq: whore he
tory, oh. 7.; p. 398. el seq: and'3 treats ofthe writ of right and its
Reeves's History, 45., and above incidents.

Sand particularly

Shipp
v.
Dl[iller'a
heirs,

(LOCAL LAW.)

SHIPP et aL v. MLLxR's

heirs.

An error in description is not fatal in an entry if it does not mislead
a subsequent locator. The following entry, "H. M. enters 1681
acres of land on a treasury warrani, No. 6168, adjoining Chapman Aston on the west side, and Israel Christian on the north, beginning at Christian's north west corner, running thence west 200
poles; thence north parallel with Asten's line until an east course
to Aston's linb will include the quantity," was hold valid, although
rio such entry as tl)at referred to could be found in the name of
Aston, 'but the particular description clearly, pointed out an entry
in the name of Chapman Austin, as the"one intended, and this, together with Christian's entry, satisfied the calls of H. M.'s entry.
It is a general rule that when all the calls of an entry cannot be coinplied with, because some are vugue, or, repugnant, the latter may
be rejected or controlled by other material calls, which are consist.
ent and cdrtain. Course and distance yield t6 known, visible, and
definite objects; but they do not yield, unless to calls more material and.equally certain. 'Chapman Austin's entry calling to lie "on
the dividing ridge between Hinkston's fork and the south fork of
Licking, beginning two miles north of Harrdd's lick, at a large buf.
falo road, and running about north ibr quantity," and there being
no buffalo road two miles nort/&of Harrod'slick, (a place of gone.
ral notoriety,) it was determined that a call for a large biTyalo road
might be rejected, and the entry supported by the definite call for
course and distance.
It is a settled rule that where no other ligure is called for in no enry,
it is to be surveyed in a square coincident with the cardinal pointo,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
andlarge enough to contain the given quantity, and that the pointof
beginning is deemed to be the centre of the base line of such square.
Chapman Austin's entry calling to run about a iorth course for
quantity, the word "about" is to be rejected, and the land is to run
a due north course, having on each side of a due north line, drawn
through the centre of the base, an equal moiety.
The act of.Kentucky of 1797, taken in connexion with preceding
acts, declaring that entries for land shall become -oid, if not surveyed before the first day of October, 1798, with a proviso allowing to infants and femes covert three years after their several disabilities are removed to complete surveys on their entries; it was
beld, that if any one or more of the joint owners be under the dis,ability of infancy or coverture, it brings the entry within the saying of the proviso as to all the other owners. Distinction between
this statute and a statute of limitations of personal actions.
A call for a sprin branchgenerally, or for a spring branch to include
a maiked tree at the head of such spring, is not a sufficiently specific locative call; and where farther certainty is attempted to be
given by a call for course and distance, and the course is not exact,
and the distance called for is a mile and a half from the place
where the object is.to be found, the entry is void for uncertainty.

317
1817.
Shipp
V.
MIler'e

hirs.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of
Kentucky.
This cause was argued by Mr. Talbot, for. the ap- march sth.

pellant, and by Mr. Shefey, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the March iltj.
court.

This is a bill in equitybrought by the appellees,who
are the heirs at law and devisees of Henry Miller,
deceased, to be relieved against the claims of the appellants under prior patents to a tract of land, to

which the appellees assert a prior equitabld title
under a prior entry by their ancestor.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1S17
Shipp

S.

1'Ier's

04

the ljt4 of December, J782, the said Henry

iler made thefollowing entry: " Henry Miller
- "-v

enters I,687 Eicres of land on a Treasury Warrant,
No. 6,168, adjoining Chapman .ston on the west sidet

heims

and Israel Christian on the north, beginning at
Christian's northwest corner, running thence west
200 poles, thence north parallel with Aston's line
until an east course to Aston's line will include the
quantity." Henry Miller died in 1796, and in 1804
this entry was surveyed, and after that time a patent issued thereupon in due form of law. At the
time of the death of Miller, and also of the survey
of the entry, several of the plaintiffs wore under
age, and some of them at the commencement of the
suit continued to be under age.
There was not, on the 11th of Dec'ember, 1782,
any entry upon record in the entry taker's books in
the name of Chapman dsston. But there were several in the name of Chapman sustin, and several
in the name of Isaac Christian. One in the name of
Chapman Austin is dated 26th of June, 1780, for
4,000 acres of land lying on Red River, and another
in the name of Israel Christian, dated the 5th of December, 1782, for 2,000 acres of land lying on the
same river; but there is no proof in the cause that
these entries are in the neighbourhood of each other.
The ent-ries relied on by the complainants as those
referred to in Miller's entry are, as follows: " On
the 26th of June, 1780, Chapman .duslin enters 4,000
acres on the dividing ridge between Hinkston's fork
and the south fork of Licking, beginning two miles
north of Harrod's Lick at a large Buffalo road, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

running about a north course for quantity." "On
the 29th of November, 1782, Israel Christian, assignee of Archibald Thompson, enters 200 acres
of land upon a military warrant, No. 1.13, adjoining
an entry of Chapihan Austin, at his southwest corner
on the dividing ridge between Hinkston's and Stoner's fork, two miles north of Harrod's Lick, running
thence west 200 poles, thence north until an east
course to strike Austin's line will include the quantity."
The appellants having the elder grant, the first
questiofi arising in the cause is as to the validity of
the entry of Miller. - It is, in the first place, contended, that it is void, because it contains no sufficient
description of the position of the land, and no specific reference to any other definite entries to make it
:certain. It is, in the next place, contended, that it is
void, because Chapman Austin's entry, on which it
is dependent,- is void for uncertainty.
There is certainly a mistake in Miller's entry, as
to the name of Aston, and the defect cannot be cured
by considering Aston and Austin as one name, for
they are not of the same sound. But an error in description is not fatal in an entry, if it does not mislead a
subsequent locator. Upon searching the entry book
no such name could be found as Chapman Aston; and
if Miller's entry had only called to adjoin Aston,
there would h'ave been great force in the objection.
But it calls also to adjoin Israel Christian's entry on
the north, and to.begin at his northwest-corner. A
subsequent locator would, therefore, necessarily be
led to examine that entry. On such examination he

319
1817.

Shipp
V.
hbcl.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Shipp

V.
MIiller's

heirs.

could not fail to observe that it calls to adjoin an
entry of Chapman Austin, at his southwest corner,
on the

dividing' ridge between Hinkston's and

Stoner' fork, two miles north of Harrod's lick.
This specific description would clearly point out the
particular entry to which it refers. It could be no
other than the'entry of Chapman Austin for 4,Q00
-acres, already stated; for that calls for the same
ridge, and to begin at the same distance from Harrod's lick.' Two entries would thus be found adjoining each other, which'would, as to position and course,
perfectly satisfy the calls of Miller's entry. No
other entries could be found which would 'present
the same coincidences. A subsequent 10cafor could
'not, therefore, doubt that these were the entries
really referred to in Miller's entry, and that Chap,man Aston was a misnomer of Chapman Austin.
The entry, then, of Miller, contains, in itself, a sufficient certainty of description, if the entries to which
it refers are valid; for id cerium est quod cerium reddt
potest.
As no objection is alleged against Christian's
entry, all consideration of it may at once "be dismissed. The validity cf the entry o" Chapman Austin
remains to be examined. It calls to lie "on tho
dividing ridge between Hinkston's fork and the south
fork of licking, beginning two miles north of Harrod's
lick at a large Buffalo road, and running about north
for quantity." It is conceded that Harrod's lick was,
at the time of the entry, a place of general notoriety ,
and it is proved that there was no Buffalo road two
miles north of that lick. The nearest Buffalo road

OP THE UNITED STATES.

was, at its nearest approach, more than two miles from

1817.

the same lick, and crossed the ridge at more than

Shipp

three miles distance from it; and a line drawn due
morth from the lick would not strike that road until
after it had crossed the ridge' at about four mil6s
distance from the lick. The calls, then, in ,the entry
cannot be completely satisfied in the :termns in which
they are expressed. The general descriptive call to
lie on the dividing ridge, as well as the call for distance, must be rejected, if a buffalo road about four
miles north of the lick were to be deemed a sufficient compliance with the call for a large buffalo
road; for the whole land wotild then lie, not on, but
ecyond the ridge. Such a construction of the entry
would be unreasonable. Is, then, the entry void
for repugnhncy or uncertainty, or can it be sustained by rejecting the call for a large buffalo road ? It
is a general rule that when all the calls of an entry
cannot be complied with, because some'a're vague,
or repugnant, the latter may be rejected or controlled by other material calls, which are consistent and
certain. On this account, course and distance yield
to known, visible, and definite objects. But course
and distance do not yield unless to calls more mate,
rial and equally certain. The locative calls in this
entry are for a point two miles north of Harrod's
Lick, and for a large, butialo road. If we reject the
first call, the entry is void for uncertainty, for there
is no d~finite starting point. If we reject the last
call, the other is perfectly certain. The general
leaning of courts has been to support entries, if it
could be done by any reasonable cotistruction,
VOL. If.

8

V.
jr.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

322
1817.
Shipp

V.
Mlfler's
heir.

The law, indeed, declares, that every entry should
a description of the land so certain that
subsequent locators might be able to ascertain it
with precision, and locate the adjoining residuum.

Scontain

But that description is held to be sufficiently cortain
which, by due diligence, inquiry, and search in tile
neighbourhood, will enable a locator to find the land.
A locator having this entry in his bands, would 'first
proce -d to Harrod's Lick, as a notorious object which
was to direct all his subsequent, inquiries. Upon
measuring off the two miles north from the lick, he
would arrive at a point clearly described in the eniHe would find himself very near the dividing
try
ridge between Hinkston's fork and the south fork

of Licking, upon which the land is unequivocally doclarod to lie. But he could find no buffalo road in
that direction until after he had crossed the ridge,
nor could he find any such road within any reasonable distance in any other direction. Under such circumstances, it is not easy to perceive how lie could
be misled. Being arrived at d spot, to which he was
directed by a definite locative call, which he could
not mistake, and- by a general call which is perfectly satisfied, he would scarcely be induced to direct
it in search of another call, which was not to be
found in the neighbourhood, and which, without the
first, would be uncertain and indefinite. In the opi.
Pion of the court the call for a large buffalo road
may be rejected, and the entry of Chapman Austin
be supported by the other definite call for course
and distance. In this opinion we are the more confirmed by the admission of counsel, that the same

OF THE UNITED STATES.

entry has been sustained in the state courts of Kentucky.
Supposing the. entry of Chapman Austin to be
good, the next inquiry is, whether it is rightly surveyed; for if it is, then Christian's and Miller's entries are, also, rightly surveyed. It is con'tended
that, as no base or figure is given by the entry, the
land cannot be laid off in any direction; and if so,
neither the survey made by order of the circuit court,
nor, indeed, any other survey, can be good. But it
is a settled rule, which has been repeatedly recognised by this court, that where no other figure is cilled for in an entry, it is to be surveyed in a square,
coincident with the cardinal points, and large enough
to contain the given quantity; and that the point of
beginning is to be deemed the centre of the base
line of such square. In the present case, a point
two miles distant from Harrod's Lick is to be taken
as the centre of the base line of a square, to contain
the given quantity of land. The entry calls to run
about a north course for quantity; but, according to
the course of decisions in Kentucky, the word,
9about," is to be rejected, and the land is to run a
due north course, having on each side of a due north
line, drawn through the centre of the base, an equal
moiety. This is precisely the manner in which the
survey was directed to be executed by the court
below.
Another objection to the title of the plaintiffs, is,
that the survey on Miller's entry was not executed
and returned within the time prescribed by law.

323
ISM
Shipp

io

321
1817.
'acts,
Shipp

V.er's
W'dill
boirs.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The act of 1797, taken in connexion with preceding
declares, that entries for land in general shall
become void, if not surveyed before the first day of
October, 1798; with a prbviso, allowing to infants
and femes covert three years after their geveral disabilities are removed to complete surveys on their
entries. The ancestor of the plaintiffs died in 1796,
and some of them then were, and still continue to
be, urnder the disability of infancy. The present entry was not surveyed until 1804.
It is argue d, that the pro'iso does not save any
entries, except where all the owners are under the
diblability of infancy or coverture, at the time wherl
thegeneral limitation takes effect. And, it is likened to the case decided by this court, where a joint
personal action was held not to be saved-by the disability of one of the plaintiffs, from the operation of
the statute of limitations. [.larstellerv. ,McLean,l'
Cranh, 156.]. It is admitted, that there is some ana-.
logy -between the cases; but, as they do n6t aripe
upon the same statute, a decision in the one furnishew
no absolute authority to govern thS other. There
are, also, differences in the nature and objects of
these statutes, which might well justify a different
construction. The statute of limitations is emphatically termed a statute of repose; it is made for the
purpose of quieting rights, and shutting out stale and
fraudulent claims. It has, therefore, always been
construed strictly against the plaintiff, and no case
has been excepted from its operation, unless within
the 'strict letter or manifest equity of Some exception
in the act itself. The statutes of Kentucky, allow-,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing further time to owners to survey their entries,

1817.

is wade with a• different
aspect. It is to save a forfeiture to -the government; and acts, imposing forfeitures,.are always construed strictly as against the
government, and liberally as to the other parties. It
is manifest that the act meant to protect the rights of
infants and femes covert from forfeiture until three
years after the disability should be removed. Yet
if the irgument at bar be correct, their rights
are
completely gone in all cases where they are not the
sole and exclusive owners. Such a construction
would' materially impair the apparent beneficial intention of the legislature. If, on the other hand, they
are authorized in ,such cases to have their entries
surveyed and. returned, so- as to protect their own
joint interest, no reason is perceived why such survey may not be justly held to enure to the benefit of
*allthe other joint owners. The courts of Kentucky
have already decided this question; and held, that if
any one joint owner be under disability, it brings the
entry within the saving of the proviso, as to all the
other owners. [Kennedy v. Bruice, 2 Bibb's Rep.
371.] This is a decision upon a local law, which forms
a rule of property; and this court has always held
in the highest respect, decisions of state courts on
such subjects. We are satisfied it is. a reasonable interpretation of the statute, and upon principle or authority see ao ground for drawing it into doubt.
The title of the plairtiffs being established, it is
next to be compared with the titles of the respondents. It is conceded on all sides, that none of the
titles of the latter are of superior dignity to that of

'hip
Shfpp

v.
heir

MIiller's

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

181?.
0
Shipp
V.
MIillcr's
heirs.

the plaintiffs, except the title claimed under an entry
of Thomas Swearingen, on a military warrant. This
entry is as follows: " On the 26th of April, 1780, Thomas Swearingen enters 1,000 acres in Kentucky, by
virtue of a military warrant, for military services performed by him last war, on a spring branch about six
miles a northeastwardly 'course from Stoner's spring,
to include a tree, marked A. B. C. S. T. at the head
of said spring." Stoner's spring is admitted to
be a plaie of notoriety; but the marked tree and
spring branch, instead of being at the distance of six
miles, is found at the distance of four miles and a
half, and in a course not northeasterly. The call
for a spring branch generally, or for a spring'branch,
to include a marked tree at the head of the spring,
is not a sufficiently specific locative call. It requires
farther certainty to point out its position; and this
is attempted to be given in the present.entry by the
call for course and distance. The course is not exact, and the distance called for is a mile and a half
from the place where the object is to be found. It
is the opinion of this cou'rt, that it would'be unreasonable to require a subsequent locator to search for
the object at so great a distance fiom the point laid
down in the entry; and the entry must, therefore, be
pronounced void for uncertainty.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL. In this case I dissent
from the opinion which has been delivered on one
point; the validity of Austin's entry. I am not satisfied that the call for the buffalo road ought fo be discarded as immaterial. It appears to me to bear a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

strong analogy to a call for a marked tree. It is an
object of notoriety, distinguishable from other objects,
peculiar to itself, and which would be looked for by
subsequent locators. Finding a buffalo road in the
neighbourhood, the judgment would be divided between the call for that road, and the call for course
and distance.
Understanding that this entry has been defermined
in Kentucky to be sufficiently certain, I would have
acquiesced in that decision, had it not also been stated, that the question on its validity, did not come
before the court. Under these circumstances, we
should, had the court thought the entry invalid, have
suspended our opinion until the case could be inspected. This delay is rendered unnecessary by
the opinion that the location may be sustained.
Decree affirmed.

(PRnze.)

The

ANNA MARIA.

A suit by the owners of captured property, lost through the fault and
negligence of the captors; for compensation in damages.
The right of visitation and search is a belligerant right which cannot
be drawn into question; but must be conducted with as much regard to the safety of the vessel detained, as is consistent with a
thorough examination of her character and voyage.

1817.
The
Ann Mlaria.

