OF THE UNITED STATES.

strong analogy to a call for a marked tree. It is an
object of notoriety, distinguishable from other objects,
peculiar to itself, and which would be looked for by
subsequent locators. Finding a buffalo road in the
neighbourhood, the judgment would be divided between the call for that road, and the call for course
and distance.
Understanding that this entry has been defermined
in Kentucky to be sufficiently certain, I would have
acquiesced in that decision, had it not also been stated, that the question on its validity, did not come
before the court. Under these circumstances, we
should, had the court thought the entry invalid, have
suspended our opinion until the case could be inspected. This delay is rendered unnecessary by
the opinion that the location may be sustained.
Decree affirmed.

(PRnze.)

The

ANNA MARIA.

A suit by the owners of captured property, lost through the fault and
negligence of the captors; for compensation in damages.
The right of visitation and search is a belligerant right which cannot
be drawn into question; but must be conducted with as much regard to the safety of the vessel detained, as is consistent with a
thorough examination of her character and voyage.

1817.
The
Ann Mlaria.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

Detention, after search, pronounced to be unjustifiable, under the
circumstances of the case.

The

The value of the captured vessel, and the prime cost of the cargo,,

AnnaMaria.

with all charges, and the premium of insurance, where it bas been
paid, allowed in ascertaining the damages.
APPEAL

from the -circuit court for the district of

Maryland.
March 11th.

This cause was argued, by Mr. Harperand Mr,
Swann, for the appellants; and by Mr. Winder ahd
Mr. Jones, for the respondents.
THE schooner Anna Maria, belonging to citizens
of the United States, sailed from Alexandria, on the
27th of September, 1812, laden with a cargo also
belonging to American citizens, and bound to St.
Bartholomews, a neutral island. On the 16th of
October, the schooner made the Virgin islands, where
she continued, it being calm, until the 19th. About
mid-day, on the 19th,light breezes sprung up from the
eastward, and the Anna Maria, as stated by her master,
was nsing her utmost endoavours to make St. Bartholomews. It appears, however, that the vessel
headed towards St. Thomas's, an island in possession
of the British. In this situation a sail, which proved
to be the Nonsuch privateer, of Baltimore, was discovered bearing east ndrtheast from them, whic4
gave chase under English colours, and soon overtook them. The Anna Maria was boarded about
four in the afternoon, and her master,.with all her
papers, sent on board the Nonsuch. A search for
other papers was commenced and continued'for

OF TM UNITED STAtES.

329

1817.
about two hours. The, boarding officer, who had
appeared in the disguise of a British officer, then
The
returned to the Nonsuch, being succeeded by another AnaaMrira.
officer, wh6 kept possession of the Anna Ma-ia with
two men, and was ordered to continue under the tee
of the Nonsuch till the succeeding day, when it was
intended, as alleged, to continue the search. *The
wholecrew ot the Anna Maria were taken out, and,
with her- master, put in irons. The next morning,
about nine, two other vessels were descried, and,
as stated by the master of the Anna Maria, and by
one of the officers of the privateer, were chased by
the Nonsuch. In the chase she lost sight of the
Anna Maria, and soon afterwards fell in with her.
The officer, with the two men on board her, at,tempted, as they say, to bring her into the United
States; but, being in want of water, wood, and caniles, they went into St. Jago del Cuba, and sold
a part of the cargo to enable them to purchase these
necessaries. In attempting to bring thL vessel out
or port, she was run aground and injured; after
which she was sold with the residue of her cargo,
and the proceeds remained in the hands of the
American consul for those who may be entitled to
them.
The Nonsuch soon afterwards returned to the
United States, and a libel was filed by the owners
of the Anna Maria and cargo, against the owners of
the Nonsuch, in the district court of Maryland, claiming compensation in damages for the injury they had
sustained. This libel was dismissed by the district
VOL. IL-

T t

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

court, and the decree affirmed by the circuit court
on which the cause was brought, by appeal, to this

Anna.Iaria. court.

March 1I.

Mir. Swann and Mr. Harper, for the appellants,
admitted, that the owners of the captured property
could not come into a court of prize, unless with
clean hands, to claim restitution in damages. If tho
original seizure was justifiable, and there was no
subsequent misconduct on the part of, the captors,
they could not be compelled to make restitution.
But it is the duty of captors to send in the captured
vessel immediately for adjudication before the proper
tribunal, and to the most convenient port. This they
had not done; and were, therefore, responsible to
the owners in damages. Even if the commander of
the privateeer acted bona fide, he acted with grosa
negligence and unskilfulness, and the authority of
the c*ase of the Der Mohra is enough to charge him
with restitution in value.
Mr. Winder and Mr. Jones, for the respondents,
argued, upon the facts of the case, that the real destination of the captured vessel was to supply the
enemy, and that there was probable cause of seizure,
If so, damages could not be recovered. There was
sufficient ground for carrying in for adjudication, or
ground of condemnation as prize; either would be
sufficient to justify the captors in the seizure; the
only question is, whether the right bf seizure waa
-

a

B. 129.

4 Rob. 314.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

properly exercised. The prize law does not prescribe 1817.
any pairticular mode of exercising the right- of visiThe
tation and search, nor when, nor into what particular A1ariz.
port the piize is to he sent for adjudication. It is
the exercise of a military discretion; and the case
of the Der Molir shows that the. captors are not
responsible for an accidental loss after the capture,
if there is probable cause of seizure and carrying in
for adjudication.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion Arnrch lstb.

of the court, and after stating the facts proceeded
as follows:
To sustain the claim of the libellants, he first
point to be established is, the fairness of the voyage.
It being admitted -that the vessel and cargo were
American, the only inquiry is, was the Anna Maria
really destined for a neutral port ?
Her papers show that she was destined for St.
_Bartholomews; her master swears that he intended
to reach that port, band no other; and that he was
using his best endeavours to make it when he was
atopped by the Nonsuch.
The circumstances which might create doubt respecting the truth of this testimony, are, his situation
and course when descried by the Nonsuch. He
was within six or eight leagues of St. Thomas's, and
steering a course which brought him nearer to that
island. But his place is accounted for by the current and the calm Which had preceded his capture;
and his course, is stated by himself, -and his tesfi-

332

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

mony is not contradicted, to have been calculated to
The
enable him to gain St. Bartholomew's, to tee leeAnvaMpja, ward of which he had fallen. This representation
is supported .by the fact, that being at the Virgin
Islands on the 16th, he might, by availing himself of
the current, have reached St. Thomas's before he
was descried by the Nonsuch. It is also supported
by the great improbability of his attempting to en.
ter an enemy's port without obtaining a license,
which would have protected him from hostile capture in that port, as well as on his voyage to it.
That he had not a license is proved, not only by
his own oath, but by the fact that, although the mas.%
ter and crew, as well as the vessel, have remained
in possession of the captors, no license has ben
found, and there is no reason to believe that it could
have been secreted, and it is not probable that it
would have been destroyed on The appearance of
the Nonsuch, since she chased and boarded under
British colours,
The voyage,Jthen, must be considered as entirely
fair. The next subject of inquiry is, the right to
visit and to detain for search, This is a belligerant
right, which cannot be drawn into question. As
little can it be questioned that the situation of the
Anna Maria justified a full and rigorous search,
But this search ought to have been conducted with
as much regard to the rights and safety of the vessel detained as was consistent with a thorough examination 6f her character and voyage. All that
was necessary to this object was lawful; all that
transcended it was unlawful.
1817.

OF THE UNITED STATES,.

333

When the Anna Maria was boarded, her master
1817.
gave a plain and true account of the charactez of
Tho
the vessel and cargo, which was verified by the AnnaIari-.
ship's papers, and which does not appear to have
been doubted. But although the vessel and cargo
were American, the trade might be hostile; and the
right to examine fully into this fact was complete.
There was no prevarication in the statements of
the master which could excite suspicion, and the
search for other papers was continued for two hours
without intermission. Although the Character of
British officers was maintained,, nothing indicating
British connection in the voyage was discovered;
and, although the trunks were broken open and
searched, no additional papers were found. It was
pressing the right of search as far as it could bear,
to determine on repeating it the next day; and an
inattention to the safety of the Anna Maria, which
only her neighbourhood to the island of St. Thomas
could excuse, longer to detain her. But there is
some reason to doubt whether further search was
the real object of this detention. It does not appear to have been recommenced at nine the next
morning; and this leads to the opinion that the vessel was detained, not so much to make farther search
as in the hope of drawing from the master, or some
of the crew, who were all in irons, something which
might lead to the condemnation of the vessel and
cargo. This conduct must be viewed with much
lenity to be pardoned. But whatever excuse may
be made for the detention thus far, none can be gives
for the transactions which remain to be noticed.

CASES -IN THE SUPREM4E COURT

1817.

Before the captain ofthe Nonsuch left the Anrin

Maria, in pursuit of other objects, he ought to have
The
&=iXaa. decided either to seize her as prize or to restore her.
Had he seized her as prize, her master, at least,
ought to have been returned to her, and her papers
ohould, have been sealed and put in possession uf a
prize master. If he determined not to seize her' au
prize, her master and crew ought to have been reotored, that she might have prosecuted her voyage.
'No apology, can be made for leaving her in the condition in which she was placed. Stripped of her
crew and of her papers, left in possession of an offi.
cer and two men, without orders whither td proceed,
she was exposed to dangers; for the loss resulting
from Which, those who placed her in this situation

mist be resppnsible. Had she been regularly cap.
tured, many of the difficulties encountered in St.
Jago del Cuba might have been avoided; had she
been restored, she might, and probably would, havo
reached her port of destination in safety.
The proceedings of the Non:such, after a search,
converted the Whole transaction into a wanton marine trespass, for which no sulfficient excuse has been
given.
However meritorious may have been the services
of the private armed vessels of the United States,
in the aggregate, those individuals who have acted
with this culpable disregard to the rights of others
ought not to escape the animadversion of the law.
The conduct of the officers of the Nonsuch on hoard
theAnna Maria was unjustifiably licentious. Breakl

O1 THE UNITED STATES.

335

mg open trunks when keys were offered them, taking
1817.
W"~
leaving
and
irons,
in
them
putting
-out the crew and
her-in this situation, were acts not to be excused. Awratak,
The honor and the characterof the na-tidn are 6oncern
ed in repressing such irregularties; and the justice of
the court requires that compensation should be made
for the injury which the- libellants have sustained.
-The sentence of the circuit c6urt must be eversed, and the cause remanded to the circuit, with
directions to reverse thie sentence of the district
court, and to direct commissioners to'ascertain the
amount of damages sustained by-. the libellants; in
dising which, the value of the vessel, and the prime
cost of the cargo, with all charges, and the premium
of ' insurance, where it has been paid, with interest,
are to be allowed. Out of this decree must be deducted the amount of the proceeds of the Anna
Maria and cargo, unless the libellants shall choose
to abandon th6se proceeds to the defendants.
Sentence reversed&
b Vide A.PpuNDx, Woe 1J

