OF THE UNITED STATEM
1817.
(LOCAL LAW.)

M'IVER

et al.
et al., Lessees, v. RA4AN

Where the plaintiffs in ejeetment claimed under a grant from the
state of North Carolina, comprehending the lands'for which the
suit was brought, and the defendants claimed under a junior patent,
and a possession of seven years, which, by the statutes of that stato
and Tenessee, constitutes a bar to the action, if the possession be
under colour of title: To repel this defence, the plaintiffs proved
that no corner or course of the grant, under which they claimed,
was marked, except the beginning corner; that the beginning and
nearly the whole land, and all the corners, except one, were within
the Cherokee Indian boundary, not having been ceded to the United
States, until the year 1806, within seven years from which time the
suit vwas brought; but the land in the defendant's possession, an&
for which the suit was brought, did not lie within the Indian boundary - It was held that, notwithstanding the laws of the. United
States prohibited all persons from surveying or marking any lands
within the Indian territory, and the plaintiffs could not, therefore,
survey the land granted to them, the defendints were entitled to
-hold the part possessed by them for the period of seven yearn under
colour of title.

ERRoR to the circuit court for the district of'
West Tenessee.
The plaintiffs in error brought an ejectment in
that court for 5,000 acres of land, in possession of tho

defendant, Ragan, and on the trial gave in evidence
a grant from the State of North Carolina, of 40,000
acres, comprehending the lands for which. the suit
was instituted.
The defendants claimed, undir a junior patent to
Mabane, and a possession of seven years held by

Ragan, which, by the statutes of North Carolina and
VOL.JI.

D

MIe
V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
MlIver

V

Raga.

.Tenessee, constitutes a bar to the action, if the possession be under colour of title.
To repel this defence, the plaint;ffs proved that
no corner or course of the grant, under which they
claimed, was marked, except the beginning corner.
That the beginning, and nearly the whole land, and
all the cdrners, except one, were within the Indiati
boundary, being part of the lands reserved by treaty,
for the Cherokee Indians; These lands were not
ceded to the United Statei, until the year 1806',
within seven years from which time this suit was
instituted., But the land, in possessibn of the defendant, Ragan, and for which this ejectment was
brought, did not lie within the Indian boundary.
The laws of the United States prohibited all per.
sons from surveying or marking any lands within
the country reserved by treaty for the Indians.
Upon this iestimony, the counsel for the- plaintils
reques ted the court to instruct the jury, that " the
act of limitati6ns would. not run against the 'plaintiffs
for any part of the said trad, although such part
should be out of the Indian. boundary, until the
Indian title was extinguished t6 that part of the tract
which includes -the beginning corner, and the lines
running from it, so as to enable them to 'survey their
land, and prove the defendant to be within their
grant.". But the judge instructed the jury that,
"although the Indian boundary included the beginning corner, and part of the lines of the said tract,
yet, if the defendants had actual possession of part of
the said tract, not so included within the said Indian
boundary, and retained possession thereof for seven

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-Bars, without any suit being commenced, the plaintiff would thereby be barred from a recovery."
To this opinion the plaintiffs, by their' counsel,
excepted.
The jury found a verdict for the defibndants, or
which a jugment was rendered, and the cau-e was
brought before this courtby writ of error.

1817.
A'lver

V.

Ragan.

Mr. Swann and Mr. Campbell, for the plaintiffs :n Fb. Gth.
error and in ejectment. 1. Statutes of limit..,iuns,
all over the world, except certain cases of a peculiar
nature from their operation; and the impediment in
this case is analogous to the exceptions expressly
provided. The case of civil war interrupting all
the proceedings in courts of justice ii not stronger
than the present; the omission in the statute ought
therefore to be supplied by judicial equity. 2. The
act of theo30th of March, 1802, ch. 13. sec. 5., pro-

hibits the surveying, or attempting to survey, or
designating any of the boundaries, &c., of lands
within the-Indian territory, under severe penalties;
and the party could not have obtained a passport
from the officers authorized to grant it by the 3d
section of the act, in order to survey lands, but merely
to go into the Indian country for any lawful purpose.
3. The record does not regularly deduce the defendant's title. There is no presumption raised,
that Ragan continued his possession under Mabane,
-and without it, that possession would not be under
colour of title, according to the statutes of limitation
of North Carolina and Tennessee, and the decision

CASE8 IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

of this court in the case of Patton'sLessee v. Eas-

M'Iver
V.

Rg_:1.

. uti .

Mr. Jones and Mr. Thomas, contra.

The exceptions in the statute of limitations, (which statute
gives the right of property as well as of possession,)
are expressed by the legislature, and cannot beo multiplied by implication. But supposing the statute"
not to apply to lands within the Indian boundary;
the lands held by the defefidant was not within the
Indian boundary, and therefore the limitation applis
to it. If the plaintiffs had instituted a suit, they
might have entered the indian country, under an
order of court, and surveyed the lands. The(character of the defendants' possession, and not that of
the plaintiffs, is tb determine the right of property.
Mr. Ch. J. MARSHALL delivered the opinion of tho

court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
It is contended, by the plaintiffs in error, that the
judge misconstrued the law in his instructions to
the jury.
The ca'se is -admitted to be within the act of limitations of the state of Tennessee, and not within the
letter of the exceptions. But it is co'ntended that,
as the plaintiffs were disabled, by statute, from sur,
veying their land, and, consequently, from prosecut,
lug this suit with effect, they must be excused from
a I WAcql.

47.

OF- THE UNITED STATES.

bringing it; and are within the equity, though not
'within the letter of the exceptiobs.

The statute of limitations is intended, not for the

punishment of those who neglect to assert their

rights by suit, but for the protection of those who
have remained in possession under 'colour of a title
believed to be good. The possession of the defendants being of lands, not within the Indian territory, and being in itself legal, no reason exists, as
connected with that possession, why it should not
avail them and perfect their title as intended by the
act.
The claim of the plaintiffs to be excepted from
the operation of the act.is founded, so far as respects
this point, not on the character of tue defendants'
possession, but on the impediments to the assertion
of their own title.
Wherever the situation of a party was such as, in
the opinion of the legislature, to furnish a motive for
excepting him from the operation of the law, the
leg'lature has made the exception. Tt would be
going far for this court to add to those exceptions.
-It is admitted that the case of the plaintiffs is not
within them, but it is contended to be within the
same equity with those which have been taken out
of the statute; as where the courts.of a country
arc closed so that no suits can be instituted.
This proposition cannot he admitted. The .difficulties under which the plaintiffs laboured respected the trial, not the institution of their suit. There
was no obstruction to the bringing of'this ejeetment
-t an earlier day. If, at the trial, a survey had been

1817.

%'::ve
A111ver

v.
Rti.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
'
M'Iver

v.

2

found indispensable to the justice of the cause, the
sound ditcretion of the court would have been
exercised on a motion for a continuance. Had such
a motion been overuled, the plaintiffs would have
been in the condition of all those who, from causes
which they cannot control, are unable to obtain that
testimony which will establish their rights. If this
difficulty be produced by the legislative power, the
same power might provide a remedy; but courts
cannot, on that account, insert in the statute of
limitations an exception which the statute does not
contain. Ithas never been determined that the im.
possibility of bringing a case to a successful issue,
from cuses of uncertain duration, though created
by tje legislature, shall take such case out of ttie
operation .,f the act of limitations unless the legislature shall so declare its will.
It as also been contended, that in this
the
possession is not under colour of title.
The ejectment was'served on Ragan, who was
the tenant in possession, and, on his motion, David
Mabane and John Thomson, executors of 'the last
will and testament of James Mabane, debea'sed, and
landlords to the said Henry Ragan, were admitted
as defendants with him in the cause. At the trial
they produced a grant for the land in contovers$.
to James Mabane, and. proved, "that Ragan took
possession of the same, under James Mabane, the
grantee, in 1804, and continued to occupy the same
ever since."
It is argued that, inough Ragan is stated to have
taken possession uqde. .Mabane, he is not stated t6

OF THE UNITED STATES.

have continued that possession under Mabane, and
this court will not presume that he did so. Without
such presumption, his possession, it is said, would
would
nobbe under colour of title, and, consequently,
be no bar to the action according to the statute of
Tennessee.
The court cannot yield its assent to this hypercriticism on the language of the exceptions. The
representatives -of Mabane came in as defendants,
and plead the general issue. They are stated on
the record to be the landlords of Ragan. When
Ragan is said to have taken possession under Mabane, and to have continued to occupy the land, the
fair inference is that the possession was continued
under the same right by which it was originally
taken. Neither the statement of the counsel, nor.
the opinion of the court turns; in any degree, on-the
nature and character of Ragan's possession, but on
the disability of tne plaintiffs to survey their land.
For all these reasons this court is decidedly of opinior, that the possessiQ" of Ragan was the possession of Mabane, and was under colour of title.
Judgment affirmed.

1817.

'
vRaan

