OF THE UNITED STATES.

for, twelve miles below the mouth of Licking. If
that is not the beginning the location is unquestion•
it
beginning
the
is
that
If
void.
and
ably uncertain

1817:
Patteron

V.

is the plain mandate of the entry to run up the river Tbstate.d

1,060 poles and back for quantity.
It is the opinion of the majority of the court that
the decree ought to be affirmed, with costs.

Decree affirmed.

(coMMoN LAW.)

PATTERSON

v. the

UNITED STATES.-

A verdict is bad, if it varies from the issue in a substantial matter, or
if it find only a part of that which is in issue; and, though the court
may give form toageneral finding, so as to make it harmonize with
the issue, yet, if it appears thai the finding is different from the issue, or is confined to a part only of the matter in issue, io judgment
can he rendered upon the verdict.
In an action'of debt, upon a bond to the United States, with condition
that certain merchandise imported, and re-shipped for exportation,
should not be re-landed within the U. S., and that the certificate
and other proofs required by law, of the delivery of the same, without the limits of the U. S., should be produced at the collector's ofice within one year from the date of the bond; an issfe was formed
upon the defendant's plea, that the merchandise was not re-landed,
&c., and that the certiflcates and other proofs requited by law, of
the delivery of the same at Archangel, in Russia, were produced,
&c. within one year from the date of the bond. The jury found a
verdict, that, "the withie-mentioned writingobligatory is the deed
of the "within-namfed R. P., &c., and they find there is reallr and

222
"181

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
justly due upon the said writing obligatory the sum of 23,080 dollars58 cents."
Held that the verdict was so defective no judginent could be rendered upon it.
A circuit court ,has no authority to issue a certiorari, or other coin-

Sand

Patterson
9,

The United
States.

,veb.
20th.

phlsory process, to the district court, for the removal of a cause from
that jurisdiction, before a final judgment or decree is pronounced.
In such a case, the district court may, and ought, to refuse obedienco
to the process of the circuit court, and either party may moVe (ho
circuit court, for a procedendo, after the transcript of tho fecord iq
removed into that court, or may pursue the cause in the district
court, as ifit had not been removed.
But if the party, instead of properly taking advantage of the irregularity in the proceedings, enters his appearance in the eircuit court,
takes defence, and pleads to issue, it is too late, after verdict, to object to the irregularity, and the supreme court will, on error, consider the cause as an original suit in the.circuit court.

THIS

cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden and

Mr. Ha~per, for the plaintiff in error, and by the .1torney-General and Mr. Glenn, for the United States.
]gut as the points made were not considered by the
couri, and judgment was pronounced on other
grounds, the argument is omitted.
March 13th.

Mr. Justice

WASHINGTON,

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action o debt instituted in the .district court of Maryland by the United States, against
Robert Patterson, the plaintiff in error, upon a bond,
dated the 2d of Augus t, 1809, in the penalty of
35,000 dollars, with condition that certain merchandise, which had been imported into the United States,
and which the said Patterson had then reshipped,
in order to export the same to Tonningen, should
not be relanded in any port or place within the Vnited States, and that the certificate and other proofs re-

OF THE.UNITED STATE6

quired bylaw of the delivery of the same, at someplace
1817.
JPatteman
should
States,
of
the
the
United
the
limits
without
be produced at the collector's office of'the port of Theo V.
United
Baltimore, within one year from the date of the bond. stc3.
After the declaration was filed in the district court,
and the defendant had entered his appearance and
taken defence, a writ of certiorari, issued from the
circuit to the district court, in obedience to which the
record of the proceedings in that court was certified
and gent up to the circuit 'court. Inthis court the
defendant again took defence, and after sundry imparlances, and having had oyer of the bond and condition, he pleads, 1st. Performance generally of the
condition. 2d. That the merchandise mentioned in
the condition of the -bond was not relanded in the
United States, and that the certificate, and other
proofs required by law of the delivery of the same
at Archangel, in Russia, were produced at the said
collector's office, within one year from the date ofthe
said bond. 3d. That the said merchandise, or any
part thereof, was not relanded in the United States,
and that the certificates and other proofs required by
law, of th delivery of the same at Archangel, in
Russia, were produced to tlhe said collector's office,
on the 11th day of November, in the year. 1811.
The replication to the first plea alleges a breach. of
the condition of the bond, in not producing to the
said collector's office, the certificate add other proofs
required by law of the -relanding in some place without the limits of the United States, within one year
from the.date of the said bond, to which a rejoinder
was put in affirming that the certificate and other

,224
1817..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

proofs were produced at the said office within the

Pattersonaid year, upon which an issue is tendered and join-

VT

The United

States.

ed. The same issue is formed upon the second plea,
and to the third plea a general demurrer was put in.
The demurrer was, upon argument, sustained, and
judgment was entered against the defendant for the
penalty of the bond.
Ajury:was afterwards impannelled to try the issue
who found the following verdict, viz. "that the within-mentionel writing obligatory is the deed of the
within-named Robert Patterson, &c., and they find
there is really and justly due upon the said writing
obligatory the sum of 23,989 dollars 58 cents."
Upon this verdict the court gave judgment in favour of the United States, fbr 35,000 dollars, to be
released on ie payment of the above sum assessed
by the jury, fiom which judgment a writ of error
was obtained to remove the cause to this court.
The'court considers it to be unnecessary to decide
the questions which were argued at the bar, as the
verdict is so defective that no judgment can be rendered upon it.
The issue, which the jury were sworn to try was,
whether the certificate, and other proofs required by
law, of the delivery of the cargo, at some place without the limits of the United States, were produced
at the collector's office at Baltimore, within one
year from the date of the bond. The verdict does
not find the raatter in issue one way or the other, but
finds that the bond in the declaration mentioned is
the deed of the defendant, and that there is justly
due to the United States, upon the said bond, a cor-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2245

tainisum of money. But whether the bond was the
1817.
deed of the defendant, or not, was not a matter in Patterson
V.
issue between the parties, and, consequently, it was
The United
a false conclusion to say, that, because it was his
statnies.
deed, therefore he was indebted to the United
States.
The rule of law is prencise upon this point. A verdict
is bad, if it varies from the issue in a substantial matter, or if it find only a part of that which is" in issue.
The reason of the rule is obvious; it results from the
nature and the end of the pleading. Whether thejutry
find a general or a special verdict, it is their duty to
deide the very point in issue; and although the court
in which the cause is tried may give form to a general finding, so as to make it harmonize with the issue, yet, if it appears to that court, or to the appellate court, that the finding is different from the issue,
or is confined to a part only of the matter in issue,
no judgment can be rendered upon the vei'dict.
It is true, -that if the jury find the issue, and something more, the latter part of the finding will be rejected as surplusage; but this rule does not apply to
a case where the facts found in the verdict are substantially variant from those which are in issue.
The court deems it proper to take some rtice of
the mode of proceeding, for removing this cause from
the district to the circuit court. It is believed to bt
novel ii the practice of the courts ot the United
States; and it certainly wants the authority of law to
sanction it. There is no act of congress which authorizes a circuit court to issue a compulsory. process
to the district court, for the removal of a cause f'rom
VOL. IT.

CASES IN THE SUPREUIE COURT

226
1R17.

that jurisdiction, before a final judgment or decree

PatOerso
Pat~ersor

is pronounced. The district court, therefore, might,
and ought to have refused obedience to the writ of

*.
States,

ceriorariissued in this case by the circuit court, and
either party might have moved the circuit lqr a procedcendo aftef the transcript of the record was rerpoved into the circuit court, or might have pursued
the "'ause in the district court, in like manner as if the
recor,1 had not been remoVed.
But if. instead of taking advantage of this irregu.
larity at a proper time, and in a proper manner, the
defendant enters his appearance to the suit in th6
c'
',cuit court, takes defence, and pleads to issue, it is
too late, after verdict, to object to the ir'regularity in the proceedings. This court will consider the
suit as an original one in the circuit court, made so
by the consent of parties. Had a new declaration
been filed in the circuit court, no doubt could be entertained as to the correctness of this conclusiop.
And it is not going too far to consider the der4faration sent- from the district ourt in the same Ilignt,
after appearance, issue, and verdict. This is the
opinion of the majority of the court.
The judgment is to be reversed, and a venire do
vovo to be issued by the circuit court.
Judgment affirmed,

