OF THE UNITED STATES.

227
1817.
The Pzarro.

(?rtszE.)

The PIzARRo-Hibberson and Yonge, Claimants.
If the court below deny an order for farther proof when it ought to be
granted, or allow it when it ought to be denied, and the objection is
taken by the party, and appears on the record, the appellate court
can administer the proper relief.
But, if evidence in the nature of farther proof be introduced, and
no formal order or objection appear on the record, it must be
presumed to have been done by consent, and the irregularity is
waived.
Concealment, or spoliation of papers, is not, per se, a sufficient -round
for condemnation in a prize court. It is calculated to excite the
vigilance and justify the suspicions of the court; but is op.n to explanation: and if the party, in the first instance fairly, frankly, and
satisfactorily explains it, he is deprived of no right to which he is
otherwise entitled. If, on the contrary, the spoliation is unexplaiaea, or "be explanation is unsatisfactory; if the cause labour under
heai'y 'suspicions, or gross prevarications; farther proof is denied,
and condemnation ensues from defects in the evidence which the
party is not permitted to supply.
Under the Spanish treaty of 1795, stipulating that free ships shall
make free goods, the want of such a sea letter or passport, or such
certificates as are described jo. the 17th article, is nota substantive
ground of condemnation. It only authorizes capture and sending in
for adiudication, and the proprietary interest in the shin may be
proved by other equivalent testimony. But if, upon the original
evidence, the cause appears extremely doubtful and suspicious, and
farther proo is necessary, the grant or denial of it rests on the same
g-neral rules which govern the discretion of prize courts in ot"cases.
The term " subjects," in the 15th article, when applied to persons
owing allegiance to Spain, must be construed in the same sense as
the term " citizens," or "inhabitants," when applied to persons
owing allegiance to the United States, and extends to all persons
domiciled in the Spanisl) dominins.

228

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817,

The Spanish character of the ship being ascertained, the proprietary
of the cargo cannot be inquired into, unless so far as to as.
ThePizarro.
certain that it does not belong to citizens of'the United States,
whose property, engaged in trade with the enemy, is not protected
by the treaty.
Sinterest

APPEAL

from the circuit court of the district of

Georgia.
The ship Pizarro, under Spanish colours, was captured on the 23d of July, 1814, by the private armed
schooner Midas, Alexander Thompson, commander,
on a voyage from Liverpool'to Amelia Island, and
brought into the port of Savannah for adjudication.
lrize proceedings were instituted in the district
court of Georgia against the ship and cargo,. and a
claim was duly interposed by Messrs. Hibberson and
Yonge, merchants, of Fernandina, Amelia Island,
for the ship and -cargo, as their sole and exclusive
property. Upon the final hearing in the district
court, the ship and cargo were decreed tobe restored,
and this decree was, upon an appeal to the circuit
court, affirmed; and fiom the decree of the circuit court the cause was brought by appeal to this
court.
It appears from the evidence, that during the
voyage a package, containing papers respecting the
cargo, directed to Messrs. Hibberson and Yonge,
was thrown overboard by the advice and assent of
the master and supercargo. The reason alleged for
this proceeding is, that they were then chased by a
schooner, which-they supposed to be a Carthaginian
privateer. The ship's documents, however, were

OF THE UNITED STATES.

retained, in which her Spanish character is distinctly
asserted.
These documents were as follows: 1. A certifirate of the Spanish consul at Liverpool, dated the
11th of September, 1813, certifying that the Pizarro
was a Spanish ship, bound to Corunna. 2. *A certificate from the same, of the same date, that Messrs.
Hughe4 and Duncan had shipped 250 tons of salt on
board the Pizarro for Corunna, consigned to Messrs.
Hibberson and Yonge. 3. A certificate of health,
dated at F6rnandina, the 20th of December, 1813.
4. A letter from Messrs. Hibberson and Yonge, of
tht 10th January, 1814, to J. Walton, the navigator
or sea pilot, ordering him to sail to Liverpool. 5. A
bill of lading, -signedby Martinez, the master, for the
outward cargo. " 6.-The affidavit of Messrs. Hibberson and Yonge, that they had shipped the same
cargo on their own account, consigned to Messrs.
Hughes and Duncan, &c. 7. The shipping articles
from Amelia Island to St. Augustine, or any other
port in Europe, and back, dated the 1 1th of January,
1814. 8.. Shipping articles from Liverpool to St.
Augustine, and back to Liverpool, without a date.
9. A license from the governor of East Florida, authorizing Messrs. Hibbergon and Yonge to buy a vessel in the United States, and the copy of a bill of
sale from Messrs. S. and W. Hale, of New-Hampshire, by their agent Kimbell, dated the 24th of
February, 1813, together with an order of the governor, of the 6th of March, 1813, naturalizing the
ship, or permitting her to sail tnder Spanish colours,

1817.
The Pizarro.

CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURT.

In the district court, the cause was heard- not
omerely upon the ship's papers, and'the testimony of
The Pizarro.
•
the master and supercargo, (who were twice examined in open court,) but the claimants 'were also
permitted to introduce new proofs arid testimony in
support of their clai'm, withbut any order for farther
proof.
1817.

Feb. 27th.

Mr. Tinder, for the appellhnts and captors. 1.
The proprietary interest in the claimants is not proved. 2. They are excluded from the benefit of farther proof by the spoliation of papers. The court
below made no order for farther proof; yet it seems
to have been admitted and considered by'that court,
and has urept into the transcript of the record. This
was an irregularity, which will be corrected by the
appellate tribunal, since the case on the original evidence was free frpm doubt or difficulty, And condemnation ought to have 'ensued. The spoliation of
papers is not satisfactorily accounted for by the master and supercargo, who have prevaricated in their
examinations; and the spoliation being unexplained,
inevitably leads to the exclusioh of farther proof, and,
consequently, to condemnation. In the case of the
Two Brothers,a spoliation of papers, not being avowed with sufficient frankness by the master, was held
to destroy his credit; and the defect of proof thereby
induced, together with other circumstances, was'
deemed a cause of condemnation. In the present
a I Rob. 131. See also the the master guilty of the spoliation
Polly, 2 Rob. 361. The Rising was excluded from farthor proof
Sun, 2 Rob. 104. In this last case as to his sharo of the cargo4

OF THE UNITED STATES.

case, all the documents relative to the cargo were
thrown ovqrboard, and the excuse is the same which

was rejected by the. English court of admiralty in
the Rising Sun. . Destroying the papers which might
-show the Spanish character of the cargo could not
diminish the dapger of capture by Carthaginian privateers, since the ship would still appear to be Spanish, and this, together with the want of documentary
evidence as to the cargo, would involve both in the
same fate. This explanation of the suppression of
the papers is, therefore, weak and futile, and such as
cannot relieve the parties from the imputation of
malafiQes. 3. The claimants contend, that the cargo
is exempt from confiscation by the, Spanish treaty of
1795, which recognises the rule, that free ships make
free goods.' But the term "subjects," in the 15th
b ARTrCLE XV.-It shall' be
lawful for all ana singular the subj!cts of his Catholic Majesty, and
the citizens, people, and inhabitants of the said'United States, to
sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security, no
distinction. being made who are
the proprietors of the merchandises laden thereon, from any por
to the places of thbse who now
are, or hereafter shall be, at en'atty with his Catholic Majesty or
the United States. It shall be
likewise lawful for the subjects
and inhabitants aforesaid, to sail
with the ships and merchandises
afusemeptioned, and to trade with
the same liberty and security from

Asvrzcux.o XV. So permitird
Ltodos I &cada uno de los shbditos de S. Ms.Catdlica, y a los
ciodadanos pueblos y habitantes
de dichos Estados, que puedan
navegar con sus embarcacionoes
con toda libertad y seguridad, sin
que haya la menor excepcion por
este respecto, aunque Jos propictarios de las mercaderias cargadas
en las referidas etabarcaciones
vongan del puerto que quieran,
y las traygan destinadas "t qualquiera plaza do una potencia actualmente enemiga 6 quo Io sea
despues, as de S. Al. Catdlica comu do los Estados Unidos. So
pe-mitirl igualmente it los sfbditos y habitantes mencionaos na-

1817.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
The Pizarro.

and 16th articles, must be understood of subjects who
owe a permanent allegiance 'to the crown of Spain,
the places, ports, and havens, of
those who are enemies of b6th or
either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever,
not only directs from the places
of the enemy aforementioned, to
neutral places, but also from one
place belonging to an enemy, to
another place belonging to an
enemy, whether they be under the
jurisdiction of the same prince, or
under snveral: and it is hereby

stipulated, that free ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that
every thing shall be deemed free
and exempt which shall be found
on board the ships belonging to
the subjects of 'either of the con.
tracting parties, although the
whole lading, or any part thereof,
should appertain to the enemies
of either: contraband goods being always excepted. It is also
agreed, that the same liberty be
extended to persons who are on
board a free ship, so that although
they be enemies to either party,
they shall not be made prisoners
or taken out of that free ship, unless they are soldiers, and in actual service of the enemies.

vegar con sus buques y meroadorias, y freqUentar con igual libortad y seguridad las plazas ypuortoi de las potencias enomigas do
las partes contratautes,-6 do una
do ellas sin.oposicion i obstleulo,
y do comerciar no solo desdo los
puertos do dcicho onomigo ih un
puerto neutro dirootamonto, s! no

tambien dosdo uho enemigo I otro
tp bien so encuentro baxo su jurisdicion, 6 baxo ]a do muht
ooo;
y se estipula tambien'por ol prosento tratado quo los buques libres asegurardu igualmonto ]a
libertad. de ]as mercadorias, y quo
so juzgarun libres todos los ofcotoa que so hallasen & bordo do los
buques quo perteneciosen i Ios
sfhbditos do una do Ins partes contratantes, anun quando el cargamento per ountero 6 parto do 61 fiuese do los onemig~s do ua de ls
dos, bien entondido sin embargo
quo el coutrabando so excoptua
siompre. So ha convenido usi
mismo quo la propia libertad gozardn los sugetos quo pudieson encontrarse &bordodel buquo Jibro,
anun quando fuesen enomigos do
una de ]as dos partes contra tantes;
y por lo tanto'no so podrt hacorlos prisioneros ni sopararlos do dichos buques DtmbUos quo no t.ongan la qualidad do militares, y osto hallandose on aquella sazon
empleados en el servicio del one.
Migo.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not of mere domiciled merchants, such as the claimants.

A vessel found without the documents re-

ARTTCLE XVL-This liberty (Of
AnTICULo XVf. Esti libernavigation and commerce sha It tad de n% egmacion y de comercio
extend to all kinds of mcrdanL- debe extenderse A tola esecie
discs, excepting those only whic h ,lc inercadernas exceptuando solo
are distinguished by the name of las que so comprhenden baxo
contraband: and under this riam,a nombre de contrahndo, 6 de
of contraband, or prohibited gooh 1, mercaferias prohibidas, quales
shall be comprehended arms, grea t son las armas, canonei, bonhas
guns, bombs, with tile fusees, al I con sus nechas, y demas cosas
the other things belonging tcP pertenecientes . 1o mismo. balas,
them, cannon-ball, gunpowder, p6lvora, mechas, picas, tspadas,
match, pikes, swords, laices, lanzas, dardos, alabardas, morterspears, halberds, mortars, petards, os, petardos, granadas, salitre,
grenades, saltpetre, musquets: fusiles, balas, escudos, casquetes.
musquet-ball, bucklers, helmets, corazas, cotas de malla, y ojras
breast-plates, coats of mail, andi arnas de esta especie propias pathe like kinds of arms, proper for ra armar .l los soldados, portaarming soldiers, musquet-rests, mosquctes, bandoleras. caballos
belts, horses with their furniture, con sus armas y otros instrumenand all other warlike instruments tos do guerra sean los que roerou.
whatever. These merchandises Pero los generos y mercaderiai
which follow shall not be reckon- quo se nombiar-an ahora, no so
ed among contraband or prohibit- comprehenderfin entre los do coned goods : That is to say, all sorts trabanJo 6 cosas prohibidas, Aisaof cloths, and all other manufac- ber: toda especie do panos y quatures woven of any wool, flax, silk, lesquiera otras telas do lana, lino,
cotton, or any other materials soda, algodon, fi otras qualesquiwhatever; all kinds of wearing era materas, toda.especie de yesapparel, together with all species tidos con las telas de quo se acoswhereof they are used to be meade- tumb-.d hacer, el oro y ]a plata
gold and silver, as well coined ,as labrada en moneda 6 no, el estauncoined, tin, iron, latten, copper, no, hierro, laton, cobre, bronce
brass, coals; as also wheat, bar- carbon, del mismo modo que I%
ley arldats, and any other kind cevada, el trigo, la avena, y qualof corn and pillse; tobacco, and quiera otro ghnero de leVirrlikewise all manner of spices, bres. El tabacoy toda ia espesalted and smoked flesh, salted cera, carne salada y ahumada,
fish,
cheese and bu'ter bcer, oils, pest nd, sabdo, oueso y trai,teea
VOL. IL

G

233
1817.
The Pizarr.

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT
1817.

quiied by the 17th article is presumptively in the

r
,ThePizarro.

same situation as if she were without any documents
wines, sugars, and all sorts of cerveza, aceytes, vinos, azficnr,
$alts : and, in general, all provi- y toda especie do sal, y en genesions which serve for the suste- ral todo gbncro do provisionon
nance of life: furthermore, all quo sirvan para el sustonto do Ia
hinds of cotton, hemp, flax, tar, vida. Ademas toda espeeio do
pitch, ropes, cables, sails, sail- algodon, cnamo, lino, nlquitran,
cloths, anchors, and. any parts of pez, cuordas, cables, velao, telan
anchors, also ships' masts, plahks par veins, ncoras, y pares do
and wood of all kind, and all que so componen. MAdstites, taother things proper either for bias, maderas do todas especios,
building or repairing ships, and y qualesquiera otras cusas quo
all other goods whatever, which sirvan para la construccion y rohave not been worked into the paracion do los buques, y otras
'form of any instrument prepared qualesquiera materias qud no ticfor war, by land or by sea, shall nen ]a forma do tn instrumonto
not be reputed contraband, much preparado para )a guorra per tierless, such as have been already ra 6 per mar, no sorn reputadas
wrought and made up for any do contrabando, y mnoa las quo
other use; all which shall be estin ya proparadas para otro3
wholly reckoned among free usos. Todas las cosas quo so
goods: As likewise all other mer- acaban do nombrar debon sor
chandises and things which are comprehendidas entre las morcanot comprehended and particular- derfas libres, lo mismo quo todas
ly mentioned in the foregoing las demas morcadorfas y efectoi
enumeration of contraband goods
quo no estdn comprobendidos y
So that they may be transported nombrados expresamento on Ia
and carried in the freest manner enumeracion de los g6noros do
by the subjects of both parties, contrabando, do manera quo poeven to places belongin- to an drdn sor transportados y conduolenemy, such towns or places be- dos con la mayor libertad per los
ing only excepted as are at that sfibditos de las dos partes contratime besieged, blocked up, or in- tantes 6 las plazas enomigas, exvested. And except the cases in ceptuando sin embargo las quo so
which any ship of war or squadron hallasen en ]a aetualidad sitiadao,
shall, in consequence of storms or bloqueadas, 6 cmbestidas, y lo
other accidents at sea, be under cases en que algun buquo do
the neebssity of taking the cargo guerra 6 esquadra quo per efeoto
of any trading vessel or vessels, de averfa, fi otras causas so hallo

OF THE UNITED STATES.

235

1817.
and no equivalent proof can be. admitted, because
the pre-existing law of nations, and the practice of-The rizarro.
in'which case they may stop the
said vessel or vessels, and furnish
themselves with necessaries, giving a receipt, in order, that the
power to whom the said ship oi war
belongs, may pay for the articles
so taken, according to the price
thereof, at the port to which they
may appear to have been destined"
by the ship's papers : and the two
contracting parties engage, that
the vessels shall not be detained
longer than may be absolutely necessary for their said ships to supply themseles with necessaries*:
That they will immediately pay
the value of the receipts, and indemnify the proprietor for all losses which he may hdve sustained
in consequence of such transaction.
" AuTiCLE XVIL To the end,
that all manner of dissentions and
quarrels may be avoided.and prevented on one side and the other,
it is agreed, that in case either of
the parties hereto should be
engaged in a vxar, the ships and
vessels belonging to the subjects
or people of the other party i.,ust
be furnished with sea-letters or
passports, expressing the name,
property, and bulk of the ship, as
also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander
of the said ship, that it may appear
Ithereby that the ship really and
truly belongs to the subjects of

en necesidad do tomar Ics ofectos
que conduzca el buque 6 buques
de comercio, pues en tat case pdrd1 detenerlos para aprovisionarse,
y dar un recibo para que la potencia cuyo sea el buque quo tome
los efectos, los pague segun el valor quo tendrian en el puerto
adonde se dirigidse el propietario,
segun lo expresen sus cartas do
navegacion: obligandose las dos
partes contratantes fI no detener
los buques mas de Jo quo sea absolutamente necesario pare aprovisionarse, pagar inmediatanuente
los recibos, 6 indemnizar todus lo3
lanos que sufra el propietario-A
conseqienciade semejantesuceso.

"ARTcICeO XVII. A fin do
evitar entre ambas patres toda
especie do disputas y quejas, so
ha convenido quo on el case do
que una do las dos potencias so
hallase empenada en una guerra,
los buques y bastimentos portenecientes d los sbbditos 6 pueblos
de la otra, deberen lievar coasigo
pateites de mar 6 pasnuortes quo
expresen el nombre, la propiedad,
y el porte del buque, como tambien el nombre y morada do su
dueno y comandante do dicho
buque6 para que de este mode
conste que pertenece real y verdaderamente I .los sfibditos do

236
1817.
The Pizarro.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

prize courts under that law, though they exempt
neutral property from confiscation, refuse farther

proof where there has been spoliation of papers
one of Vie parties, whicl passport
shpll be made outand granted according to the form annexed to
this treaty. They shall likewise
be recalled every year, that is, if
the ship happens to return home
within the space of a year.
It is likewise agreed, that such
ships being laden, are to be provided not only with passports as
above mentioned, but also with
certificates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, the
pjace whence the ship sailed, that
so it may be known whether any
forbidden or contraband goods be
on board the same : which certificates shall be made out by the
officers of the place whence the
ship sailed, in the accustomed
form: And if any one shall think
it fit or advisable to express in the
said certificates the person to
.whom the goods on board belong,
be may freely. do so: Without
which requisites they may be sent
to one of the ports of the other
contracting party, and adjudged
by-te competent tribunal, according to what is above set forth,
that all the circumstances of this
omission having been well examined, they shall be adjudged to be
legal prizes, unless they shall give
legal satisfaction of iheir property
by testimony entirely equivalent.

una do las dos partes contratantes;
y quo dich0s pasaportes daboran
expedirso segun el pnodelo adjunto al presento tratudo. Todos los
anos dober 4n renovarso oetos pasaportes on el caso do quo el buque vuelva , u pas on ol espacio do un ano.
" Igualmento so Iha convcindo
en quo los buques menoionados
arriba, si cstuviesen cargadoa,
deber4n lievar no solo los pasaportes sino tambion certificadou
quo contengan el pormenor del
cargamento, el lugar do dondo ha
salido el buque, y Ia declaracion
do las meroaderfas do contrabando quo pudiesen hallarqo a bordo,
cuyos certificados debor 4n oxpodirse en Ia farma acostutnbrada
por los oficinics empleados on el
lugar de dondo el navio so bicieso
.' ]a vela, y si so juzgaso ftil y
prudente expresar on dichos pasaportes ia persona propiotaria do
las morcadorfas so podrd bacor
libromente, sin cuyos requi.tos
serd condueidu 4 uno do los iiuor.
tos do la potoncia respootiva, y
juzgado por ol tribunal compotento, con arreglo i lo arriha
dicho, para quo exAminadas bion
Ins circunstancias do su falta, sea
condenado par do buena prosa si
no satisfacieso legalmonto con los
testimonies equivalentos en tin
todo.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2nala fide, and condemn the property as enemy's.
So, also, in this case, the Spanish character of the
ship cannot be established, because the claimants
have forfeited the privilege of farther proof by the
misconduct of their own agents, and, consequently,
cannot furnish the equivalent testimony required by
the 17th article. The justifiable inference is, that
the property in the ship and cargo belongs to the
enemy, or to citizens of the United'States trading
"AnTicur.o XVI[I.
Quando
If the
11ARTICLE XV1II.
ships of the said subjects, peo- un buque perteneciente di los diple, or inhabitants, of either of chos sutbditos pueblos y habitantes
the parties, shall be met with, de una de Ias dos partes fuese eneither sailing along'the coasts or contrado navegando di Iolargo do
on the high seas, by any ship la costa 6 en plena mar por un
of war of the other, or by any buque de guerra do la otra 6 por
privateer, thed said ship of war un corsario, dicho buque do gueror privateer, for the avoiding of ra 6 corsario, di fin de evitar todo
any disorder, shall remain out des6rden, se mantendri fuera del
de canon, y podrd enviar su
of cannon shot, and may send tirn
their boats a-board the merchant chalupa .ibordo del buque mership, which they shall so meet cante, hacbr entrar eu 0l dos 6
with, and may enter her to num- tres hombres 6 los quales ensenaber of two or three men only, to rfi el patron 6 comandanto del buwhom the master or commander que su pasaporte y demas docu.
of such ship or vessel shall exhi- mentos, que debcrfin ser conforbit his passports, concerning the mes i Ioprevenido en el presente
property of the ship, made out ac- tratrado, y probar-, la propiedad
cording to the form inserted iii del buque, y despues de haber
this present treaty, and the ship exhibido semejante pasaporte y
when she shall have showed such documentos, so les dexarfi reguir
passport, shall be free and at li- libremente su viage, sin quo les
berty to pursue her voyage, so as sea lfcito el molestarle ni procit shall not be lawful to molest or rar de modo alguno darle caza,
give her chace in any manner, or 6zobligarle I dexar el rumbo que
force her to quit her intended seguia."
course."

1817.
The Pizarro.

238
1817.
r

CASES IN THE SUPREME 'COURT

witfi the enemy, which it will not be pretended is
protected by the treaty.
Mr. Key and the ltlorney-Gener'a for the respondents and claimants. 1.Even the total want of
papers is not a substantive ground of condemnation:
it may be explained, as Sir William Scott observes
in the Btse,, alluding to the the ancient French law,
2. Nor is the spoliation of papers conclusive to exclude
farther proof, and never has been so held by any
tribunal whose decisions this court will respect.' In
this case the stupid and artless manner in which iho
agents of the owners acted is a proof that the latter
didnot participate in, nor can they be made 'penally
responsible for, the misconduct of the former. 3.
If the owner of the ship was a domiciled subject of
Spain, the ship, and, consequently, the cargo, is entitled to' protection under the 'treaty. Commercial
domicil stamps ,a national character for every purpose in the view of a court of prize; and if the oieration of the treaty, were confined to Spanish subjecis
(properly so-called,) while it is extended to all persons inhabiting the United States, it would be unaccountably deticient in reciprocity'. What forlifies
the contrary construction 'is, that the term subjiects
is several times used indiscriminately in the treaty to
signify the inhabitants of both countries. The purpose for Whicti the documents prescribed by the
treaty are required shows that a'merely formal defect only authorizes detention and sending in for
c 1 Rob. 84.
d The Two Brothers, 1.Pob. 113.

The Rising Sun, 2 ob. 89,.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

adjudication, and if "equivalent testimony" is pro1817.
duced, restitution must follow, though the captors T. -,.
are exempt from costs and damages. Equivalent
testimony is that which satisfactorily proves the same
thing as that in which there was defective proof
before; and the proof we have produced is testimony more than equivalent. The form of passport .alluded to in the 17th article is not annexed to the treaty, nor is it to be found in the department of state.
The Spaniards have relied on the good faith with
which this country has always fulfilled its engagements; they have neglected the form, and relied on
the spirit of the stipulation. The papers produced
are, therefore, equivalent to a formal passport; and
there is no rule by which they can be excluded, as
there was no attending circumstance of fraud in the
destruction of the original documents, and, consequently, the case isunaffected by that vala fides
which precludes explanation from extrinsic testimony.
Mr. Justice SToRy delivered the opinion of the March sth..

court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
A preliminary objection has been taken in the
argument at bar to the regularity of the proceedings
in this cause, and it is urged, with great earnestness
and force, that the farther proof was not admissible
except under an explicit order of the court for this
purpose; and thai the conduct of the master arid supercargo:in the suppression of the documents of the
cargo, and in prevaricating in their examination, has

CASES IN THE SUPREMF" COURT
1817.

justly forfeited the claim which the owners might
have to introduce the farther proof.
The proceedings in the district court were cer-

Sotherwise

Therizarro.

tainly very irregular; and this court cannot but re-

gret that so many deviations from the correct prize
practice should have occurred at so late a period of
the war. The ship's papers ought to have been
brought -into court, and verified, on oath, by the captors., and the examinations of the captured crow
ought to have been taken upon the standing interrogatories, and not viva voce in open court.. Nor
should the captured crew have been permitted to
be re-examined in court. They are bound to declare the whole truth upon their first examination;
and if they then fraudulently suppress any material
facts, they ought not to be indulged with an opportunity to disclose what they please, or to give colour
to their former statements after counsel has been
taken, and they know the pressure of the cause.
Public policy and justice equally point out the necessity of an inflexible adherence to this rule.
It is upon the ship's papers, and the examinations
thus taken in preparatory, that the cause ought, in
the first instance, to be heard in the district court;
and upon such hearing it is to judge whether the
cause be of such doubt as to require farther proof;
and if so, whether the claimant has entitled himself
to the benefit of introducing it. If the court should
deny such order when it ought to be granted, or allow it when it ought to be denied, and the objection
be taken by the party and appear upon the record,
the appellate court can administer the proper relief.

OP THE UNITED STATEE

If, however, evidence in the nature of farther proof 1817.
be introduced, and no formal order or objection '*
appear on the record, it must be presumed to have ThePizarro.
been done by consent of parties, and the irregularity is completely waived. In the present case, no
exception was taken to the proceedings or evidence
in the district court; and we should -not, therefore,
incline to reject the farther proof, even if we were
of opinion that it ought not, in strictness, to have
been admitted.
The objection, which is urged against the admission of the farther proof would, under other circumstances, deserve great consideration. Concealment, or
even spoliation of papers, is not of itself a sufficient
ground for condemnation in a prize court. It i., undoubtedly, a very awakening circumstance, calculated to excite the vigilance, and justify the suspicions
of the court. But it is a circumstance open to explanation, for it may have arisen from acdident, necessity, or superior force; and if the party in the
first-instance fairly and frankly explains it to the satisfaction of the court, it deprives him of no right to
which he is otherwise entitled. If, on the other
band, the spoliation be unexplained, or the explanation appear weak and futile; if the cause labour
under heavy suspicions, or there be a vehement presumption of bad faith, or gross prevarication, it is
made the ground of a denial of farther proof, and
condemnation ensues from defects in the evidence
which the party is not permitted to supply.
"Inthe present case there can be no doubt that
there has been a gross prevarication and suppression
VOL. TT.

11 h

242
1817.
T

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of testimony by the master and supercargo., No.
thing can be more loose and unsatisfactory than their
first examinations; and the new and circumstantial

details given upon their second examinations are inconsistent with the notion of perfect good faith in
the first instance.

The excuse, too, for throwing

the packet of papers overboard is certainly not
easily to be credited; for the ship's documents which
still remained on board would, in the view of a Carthagenian privateer, have completely established a
Spanish'character. It is not, indeed, very easy to
assign an adequate motive for the destruction of the
papers. If the ship was Spanish, it was, as to American cruisers, immaterial to whom the cargo belonged; for, by our treaty .vith Spain, (treaty of
1795, art. 15.,) declaring that free ships shall make
free goods, the property of an enemy on board of
sich a ship is just as much protected from capture
as if it were neutral. The utmost, therefore, that
this extraordinary conduct can justify on the part 9f
the court is to institute a more rigid scrutiny into the
character of the ship itself. If her national Spanish
character be satisfactorily made-out in evidence, the
spoliation of the documentary proofs of the cargo will
present no insuperable bar to a restitution. Very
different would be the conclusion, if th6 case stood
upon the ground of the law of nations, unaffected by
the stipulations of a treaty.
e By the ancient Prench law, Thus, by the ordinancea of 1543,
opoliati6n of papers was a substan- art. 43, and of'1584, art. 70, the
tire ground of condemnation. throwing overboard of the charter

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Upon a full examination of the evidence we are of
opinion that the Spanish character of the ship is entirely sustained, and, therefore, the claimants are entitled to a decree of restitution. Two objections have
been urged against this conclusion: 1. That the
ship is not documented actcording to the requisitions
I

of the treaty with Spain, and, therefore, not within
the protection of that treaty. 2. That it does not
party, or other papers respecting
the lading of the vessel, is declared cause of condemnation. And
by the ordinance of August. 1681,
Des Prisa, trL6, all vessels, on
board of which no charter party,
bills of lading, or invoices are to
be. found, are, together with their
cargoes, declared good prize.
Doubts having arisen as to the
uapplication of this rule of evidence, in, cases where sufficient
papers were found remaining on
board, to furnish proof of the proprietary interest, the ordinance of
the- th Sept., 1708, was rendered; by which itwas provided, that
every captured vessel, from which
papers have been thrown overboard, shall be god prize, together with the cargo, upon proof of
this fact alone, without its being
necessary to examine into the hature of the papers destroydd, nor
to inquire whether sufficient papers were found remaining on
board to furnisli evidence that the
ship and the goods of .her lading
belonged to allies or friends. But
thiq decision appearing too vigor-

ous in practice, Louis XIV, in a
rescrpt of the 2d February, 1710,
addressed to the Admiral of
France, directed the council of
prizes to apply the terms of this
ordinance according to the peculiar circumstances, and the subsidiary proofs in each easo. Valin is of the opinion that, though
this rescript escaped the attention of the framers of the regula.
tion ofthe 21stOctober, 1744, (the
6th article of whicl is entirely
conformable to the ordinance of
the 4th September, 1703,) yet it
ought to be applied to temper the
rigotr of this article, according to
circumstances. Valin,currOrdonrurce, lb. And, according to the
authority ofa celebated modern
jurist of France, such regulatioua
should always be tempered by
wisdom and equity ; they are improperly styled laws; and cssentially variable pro temporibua ef
caucis. He cites in confirmation
of his opinion, that even the want
or suppression of papers is not
conclusive, a sentence of the
council of prizes of the 27th Do-

1817.
The Pizarro

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

The Pizarro.

appear that Mr. Hibberson (who is a native of
Great Britain) has ever been naturalized in the dominions of Spain, and therefore he is not a subjca of
Spain, within the meaning of the treaty.
As to the first objection, it is certainly true that
the ship was not furnished with such a sea letter, or
passport, or such certificates as are described in
the 17th article of the treaty. But the want of such
docu,ents is no substantive ground for condemnation. It only justifies the capture, and authorizes
ihe captors to send the ship into a proper port for
adjudication. The treaty expressly declares, that
Wfhen ships shall be found without such requisiteb,
they may be sent into port, and adjudged by the
competent tribunal; and "that all the circumstances of this omission having been well examined,
they shall be adjudged to be legal prizes, unless they
shall give legal satisfaction of their property by testimony entirely equivalent." It is apparent, from
Cember, 1779, restoring the captured vessel, notwithstanding some
papers had been thrown overboard, it being proved that the
papers were not of such a nature
as to show the property enemy's,
and the master not being accessary to the spoliation. See the
opinions of 11. -Porlalis,in the
cases of the Pigou and the Statira. I Cranch, 99. note, (a.) lb.
104. note, (a.) The Spanish law
as to spoliation, is conformable
with that of France, and its applipation to the above cpe would

pf'obably have been urged by
the counsel for the captors, upon the principle of reciprocity,
had they not been precluded
from resorting to that argument
by a former dccision of the court,
in the case of the Nereido, 9
Cranch, 388. ; a majority of the
judges being of opinion that the
principle of reciprocity or amicable retaliation, formed no rule of
judicial decision in the courts of
this country, until it was prescribed as such by the legislative will.
Id. 4.22.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2415

this language, that the omission to comply with the 1817.
requisites of the treaty was not intended to be fatal 1-'izarro
law The
to the property. And, certainly, by the general
of nations, as well as by the particular stipulations of
the treaty, the parties would be at liberty to give
farther explanations of their conduct, and to make
other proofs of their property. If, indeed, upon the
original evidence, the cause should appear extremely doubtful or suspicious, and farther proof should
be necessary, the grant or denial of it would rest upon the same general principles which govern the
discretion of prize courts in other cases. But in the
present case, there is no necessity for such farther
proof, since the documents and testimony now before
us, are, in our -pinion, as to the proprietary interest
'in*the ship, entirely equivalent to the passports and
-sea-letter required by the treaty.
As to the second objection, it assumes, as its basis,
'that the term "subjects," as used in the treaty, applies only to persons who, by birth or naturalization,
owe a permanent allegiance to the Spanish government. It is, in our opinion, very clear that such is
not the true interpretation of the language. The
provisions of the treaty are manifestly designed to
give reciprocal and co-extensive privileges to both
countries; and to effectuate this object, the term
" subjects," when applied to persons owing allegiance to Spain, must be construed in the same sense
as the term "citizens," or "inhabitants," when applied to persons owing allegiance to the United
States. What demonstrates the entire propriety of
this construction is, that in the 18th article of the

CASES IN THE SUFREME COURT

treaty, the'terms. "subjects," "people," and "inlia.
bitants," are indiscriminately used as synonymous, to
Ue.Marro. designate the same persons in both countries, and
in
cases obviously within the scope of-the prece ding articles. Indeed, in the language of the law of nations,
which is always to Ie consulted in the interpretation
of treaties, a person doniiciled in a country, and onjoying the protection of its sovereign, is deemed a
subject of that country. He owes allegiance to the
country, while he resides in it; temporary, indeed, if
he has not, by birth or naturalization, contracted a
permanent allegiance'; but so fixed that, as to all other
nations, he follows the character of that country, in
war as well as in peace, The mischiefs of a different construction would be very great; for it might
then be contended that ships owned by Spanish subjects could be protected by the treaty, although they
were domiciled in a foreign country, with which we
were at war; and yet the law of nations would, in
such a predicament, pronounce them enemies. W€
should, therefore, have no hesitation in over-ruling
this objection, even if it were proved that Mr. Hibberson was not a naturalized subject of Spain; but we
think the presumption very strong that he had become, in the strictest sense of the words, a Spuanish,
subject.
The Spanish character of the ship being ascertained, it is unnecessary to inquire into the proprietary interest of the cargo, unless so far as to ascertain that it does not belong to citizens of the United
States; for the treaty would certainly not protect the
property of American citizens trading with the one1817.

OF THE'UNITED STATES.

my in Spanish ships. There is no presumption, from
the evidence, that any American. interest is concerned in the shipment. The whole property belonged
either to British subjects or to the claimants, and we
think the proofs in the cause very strongly establish
it to belong as claimed.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed with
costs.
Decree affirmed.'
f It is obvious that the privilege of the neutral flag of protectitg enemy's property, whether
conferred by treaty or by the ordinances of belligerant powers,
canndt extent to a fraudulent use
of the flag to cover enemy's property in the ship as well as the
cargo. The Minerva, 1 JilarnioWs Adm. Dec. 235.
The
Cittade de Lisboa, 6 Rob. 358.
The Eendraught, lb. Note, (a.)
During the war of the American
revolution the United States, recognising the principles of the
armed neutrality, exempted by an
ordinance of congress all neutral vessels from capture, except
such as were employed in carrying contraband goods, or soldiers,
to the enemy;- it was held that
this exemption did not ex(end:to a
vessel which had been guilty of
grossly unneutral conduct, in
taking a decided part with the enqmy, by combining with his sub-

jects to wrest out of the hands of
the United States and of France
the advantages they had acquired
over Great Britain by the rights
of war in the conquest 4t Domini.
ca. By the capitulation or that
island, all commercial intercourse
with Great Britain was interdicted. In the case in question, the
vessel was purchased by neutra
in London, who supplied her with
false and colourable papera, and
assumed on themselves the ownership of the cargo, for a voyage
from London to Dominica. The
continental court of appeals, in
pronouncing the vessel and cargo
liable to condemnation, observed
"Had she been employed in a
fair commerce, such as was consistent with the rights of neutrality, her cargo, though tho property
of an enemy, could not be prize;
because congress had said, by
their ordinance, that the rights of
neutrality should extend nrotec-

247
1817.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tion to such effects and goods of stipulation, that the flag and pass
an enemy. But, if the neutrality shall protect the cargo sailing unThe United were violated, congress have not der it. In the memorablo cago
1817.

States
V.
Tenbroek.

said, thatsuch a violatedneutrality of the Nereide, 9 Cranch, 388.,
shall give such protection: Nor it was contended by the counsel
could they have said so, without for the captors, that this stipulaconfounding all the distinctions tion in the Spanish treaty, taken
between right and wrong." The in connexion with the law of
Estern, 2 Dall. 36. The only Spain, necessarily implied the
treaties now subsisting between converse proposition, that cncrmy'g
the United States and foreign pow- ships make enemy's goods, which
ers, containingthe stipulation that is not expressed in the treaty.
free ships shall make, free goods, But this argument was overruled
are the above treaty with Spain, by the court, who hold that the
that of 1782 with the Netherlands, treaty did not contain, either ex(which, it is presumed, still sub- pressly or by implication, a stipusists, notwithstanding the clhanges lation that enemy's ships shall
in the political situation of that make enemy's goods. Id. 4111.
country,) and the treaties with the See Ward on the Relative Rights
Barbary states. The conventions and Duties of Belligerant and
between the latter and Chris- .NeutralPowers, 145.
tian powers always contain the

(COMUON

The

UNITED

LAW.)

STATES V. TENBROEK.

The act of Congress of the 24th July 1813, imposing a duty, according to the capacity of the still, on all stills employed in distilling
spirits from domestic or foreign materials, and inflicting a penalty
of 100 dollars, and double duties, for using any still or stills, or
other implements in distilling spirituous liquors without first obtaining a license, as required by the act does not extend to the rectification, or purification, of spirits already distilled.

