OF THE UNITED STATES.

parties have liberty to produce farther proof; that

1817.

all examinations of witnesses be taken under cornfie
mission according to the rule of this court; that Bothneaana

original letters and documents be, in all cases, produced, or a sufficient reason assigned for not producing such originals. And Ihat the captors have
lea~ve to inspect letter books and books of account
relative to this adventure wherever they requiae it.

(rnZE.)

The BoTHNEA and the JAHNSTOFF.
A question of collusive capture.

Condemnation to the captort,

from the circuit court for -the district of
TMassachusetts,
From the papers found on board these vessels, and
the preparatory examinations in the court below, it
appeared that they were foreign vessels, having on
board, as was admitted on all sides, false and simulated Swedish papers. They both sailed from Halifax, N. S., about the 24th of November, 1813, laden
with cargoes of British manufactured goods, destined
for the United States; and, on the same day, were
captured near the Ragged Islands, either really or
collusively, by the privateer Washington, of 242
tons, one gun and fifteen men, belonging to Portland,
APPEAL

VOL. i].

Y

170

CASES IN.THE SUPREME COURT

in the District of Maine, and commanded by William
Malcomb. They were taken .in . sight of each
The""
Bothneaand other; the Jahnstoff first, within about three hours,
Jabnstoff. and the Bothnea, within about nine hours after leaving Halifax. At the time of the capture, there were
on board the Bothnea seven persons, and on board
of the Jahnstoff five persons, composing their respective crews, and one American passenger. The
whole of the crews were taken fiom each vessel, and
landed in a boat at Ragged Islands. The American
passengers were retained on board, and under'the
superintendence of prize-masters and crews. The
Bothnea was conducted into Salem, and the Jahnstoff into Plymouth, in the district of Massachusetts.
Immediately on their arrival they were seized by the
collectors of those ports, for .an alleged violation of
the nonf-importation act. Prize proceedings were
also commenced by the captors against botb vessels,
before the district court of Massachusetts. The
American passengers were examined on the standing interrogatories, and the papers found on board
dqposited in court by the prize-masters. .The papers found on board the Bothnea were the Swedish
simulated papers. Two bills of lading of the cargo, dated the 23d of November, 1813, purporting that the
whole cargo was shipped by John Moody &Company,
merchants, of Halifax, for New-London, consigned to
order. A clearance from Halifax, dateo on the same
day. A British license from Sir John Sherbrooke,
governor, &c., dated on the 9th of November, 1813,
authorizing John Moody and others to export in any
vessel, not belonging to France, to any port in the
1817.

OF THE UNITED STAIES

United States, any British goods, on British or Ame-

1817.

rican account, which license was to continue in force

The

for two months. And two letters dated at Halifax
on the 23d November, 1813; one purporting to be
addressed to the consignee of the cargo, the other to
be addressed to the master of the Bothnea. These
letters are as follows: "Halifax, November 23d.
1813. Dear Sir, We now only enclose you'a bill of
lading of the cargo shipped on our joint account per
the Bothnea, agreeable to the memorandum left with
us by Vanqervel ivhen last here. The invoices we
forwarded in duplicate, one by P. Jones, and the
other by Schonesburg, which you will have received
before this. Z. has our particular instructions how
to proceed when in with the squadron. We have
settled ior A.'s share of the compensation. B. 2.
will pay his. We have fixed on 200 dollars, exclusive of the freight, which we have also arranged for.
Most sincerely do we wish this speculation to succeed, at the same time request your earliest advice
how to proceed with the next. Do not trust too
much'paper. We have directed Z., in case of meeting with an American cruiser, to destroy all. We
are very truly your friends and obedient servants,
John-Moody & Company."
"Halifax, Nov. 23d, 1813. Captain J". K .,
Schooner Bothuea.-Sir, We hand you herewith
sundry enclosures respecting the cargo of the Bothnea, to your most particular care. You will perceive
the necessity of 'using every possible caution. We
are only apprehensive of Shaving Mills. You will
of course secrete every thing respecting the trans-

Botboi nd

t

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUIRT

action. In case of British interruption we must recommend your being well assured that there is no
Bothnea and deception, as you must be aware of the facility with
Jahnstoff. which American cruisers may pass for English. The
invoices of the goods are already forwarded. You
will make the best of your way to N**. When in
with any of the B. B. squadron, come forward with
your Ex. Li. which will safely pass you, and then
nothing will remain but activity 'and despatch in getting the goods on shore. We should not have embarked ourselves so largely in this concern, but from
the ease with which dry goods can be smuggled
into those places if properly ma.nagcd. The bill
of lading is to order, you will, therefore, receive instructions from our friends A. 1,and B. 2. We expect your best place will be to lay off under the protection of H. M. ships, and deliver, the cargo in
boats and lighters without proceeding further; and
as our friends are already advised on the subject, no
doubt every necessary step will be taken. Should,
however, any unexpected casualty happen, we recommend your getting out of the way, as we would
rather the -whole should be sacrificed than any mischief happen to - .. But, above 6ll, keep out of
sight your Ex. Li. clearance and this lette:. Do not
confide too much. If you have any suspicions destroy all at once, and after committing this to memory
be sure to put it perfectly out of danger. As to the
return cargo we need not say any thing on the subject, having the fullest confidence that a voyage to
St. Barts may be profitably effected with certain ar.
'Icles; floupr out of the question, unless rye. .)
1817.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

No. 2; will pay you the compensation agreed, e clu-

1817.

sire of the freight we have allowed. A.'s prrporThe
tion we will settle with our own. If it is possible Botrnmand
to obtain convoy we will, but it is doubtful. We are Jahnstoir
your friends and humble servants, John Moody &
Co. P. S. Do not write, for fear of accidents. Let
ypur communications be verbal."--The papers on
board of the Jahnstoff were the Swedish simulated
papers. A British license, and clearance, of the
pame date and purport as in the Bothnea. Two
bills of lading of the cargo, dated the 23d Novem-

ber, 1813, on the same account, destination, and
consignment as in the case of the Bothnea. And
two letters dated at Halifax on the same day, one
addressed to Messrs. B. 2, and A. 1, at -NewLondon; and the other to the master of the Jahnstoff.
The first of these letters is as follows: "Halifax,
Nov. 23d, 1813. Dear Sir, We now enclose-you a
bill of lading of the cargo shipped on our joint account per the brig Jahnstofl, agreeable tc. the memorandum left with us by Vandervelt, when last here.
The invoice ,we forward( I in duplicate, one by P.
Jones, and the other by Schonesburg which you will
have received before this. Z. has our particular instructions how to proceed when in with the Squad. We
have settled for A.'s share of the compensation; B.
No. 2, will pay his. We have fixed 200 dollars, exclusive of the freight, which we have also arranged
for. Most sincerely do we wish this speculation to
succeed. At same time request your earliest-advice
how to proceed with the next. Do not trut too
miuch r per We have directed Z., in case of meet.

CASES IN THV SUPREME COURT

174

ing with an American cruiser, to destroy all." 'he
letter is an exact transcript of that addressed
The
Bothnea and to the master of the Bothnea, except that the direcJahnstoff. tidn is Varied.
1817.

Sother

At the hearing in the district court, a claim was interposed by the District Attorney in behalf of the
United States, and of the collector, praying a condemnationto them, upon the ground of a collusive
capture and fraudulent breach of the non-importation act. That court dismissed the captor's libel, and
condemned the vessels and their cargoes to the United
States; from which sentence an appeal was interposed
to the circuit court,. which court affirmed the condomnation, and the causes were brought to this court by
appeal. Farther proof was ordered at the last term,
and the causes again came on for hearing at the
present term upon the farther proof exhibited by
both parties, and directed to explain the several
points indicated by the court as grounds of doubt on
the original evidence. Under the commissions taken
out to examine witnesses, the following interrogateries were exhibited on the partof the captors. Have
not some of the privateers, fitted out in the eastern
ports, during the war of the revolution and the late
war, been of very small burthen ? Was it not usual
for these privateers, armed sometimes with one carriage gun only, to proceed coastwise upon short
cruises, and did they not capture prizes of great
value? Was it .not their practice to frequent the
ports of the District of Maine and of.the province of
See A nkirvoL 1, p. ,108.

OF THE, UNITED STATES.

Nova Scotia, for the purpose of running out occa- 1817.
sionally, capturing the British commerce bound in " The
and out of Halifax and other enemy's ports, and were Botlnea
they not often successful? Did it i. t often happen 3itof.
that the crews of the vessels, captured by them,
were put ashore by the privateers, instead of being
brought in as prisoners ? Has it not beei. the practice for sea-faring persons in the District of Maine
to become owners of such privateers, and to go in
them on short cruises? Did it frequently happen
during the late war that unarmed vessels, under
neutral or British colours, sailed without convoy from
the port of Halifax, either to New-London. LongIsland Sound, or elsewhere ? And, on the part of
the United States, the following: Was it not the usual
custom, during jhe late war, for the owners of privateers to stipulate with the officers and crew, that
the latter should receive one moiety or some other
definite proportion of the proceeds of all prizes ?
Were there any cases where the crews were engaged
to serve on monthly wages, without participating in
the prizes ? Was it not usual for privateers to bring
in the prisoners captured by them? What was the
usual and adequate crew and armament of a privateer of about 25 tons burthen, intended for a cruise
from the eastern ports, in the Bay of Fundy and
along the coass of Nova Scotia? Together with
other interrogatories tending to show, or to negative,
collusion betweenthe owners of the captured vessels
and the privateer by which the capture 6as-made.
The answers to these interrogatories, by the various
witnesses examined, were contradictory and incon-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

The
Bothneaand
Jahnstoff.

sistent, and it would be obviously impossible to present any intelligible abstract of their testimony without extending the case to an inconvenient length.
Bht, among other circumstances, it was proved that
nine out of fifteen of the prize crew were joint
owners.

'eb. 2Oth.

The causes were argued on the fartber proof by
Mr. Harper and Mr Winder, for the appellants and

captors, and by" lhe Attorney-General, for the United
States.
March 4th.

Mr. Justice JoHnsoN delivered the opinion of the
court.
Aftar duly weighing the evidence in these casesl
a majority of the court are of opinion that the vessel and cargo must be adjudged to the owners,
officers, and crew of the capturing privateer. Independently of the act of landing the entire crews of
the captured vessels, there was nothing in the case
which necessarily led to suspicion. And this is explained on a ground that is very plausible, to wit,
that having a course to run which swarmed with
enemy's vessels, their intention was to personate the
original crew, and pass off the prizes on the approach
of an enemy, under their original character. It is
not at all impossible that nothing but this ruse dte
guerre may have been in contemplation of the crew.
There is, indeed, something in it peculiarly characteristic, when we consider tbe spirit of adventure,
and great mental resources which distinguish the
people of whom the crew was composed. It is to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be regretted that this talent for enterprise had not
been always ihore happily applied than it was in the
adventure of the Jahnstoff and Bothnea. These
vessels had both been employed in transporting pr..
visions from New Haven to Halifax, and were now
returning with cargoes of dry goods to be smuggled
into the United States in the vicirity of the same
place. The documentary evidence shows an intimate correspondence between the shippers at Halifax and some persons resident in the United States.
But who they were must remain unknown, as the
merchants in Halifax have, in their examination, refused to betray them. That the voyages of these
vessels was loaded with infamy no one pretends to
.inandeny. The reasoning of the courts below .is
swerable on this pr.int. But the majority of this
court are of opinion that the evidence is n6t suflicient
to fasten on the captors a participation in the firaud.
The whole may have been, "for'aught wY6 know, a
combination of machinery, the result of the most
consummate art. It is certainly true that, in one
view of the case, every thing may be attributed to
artifice, in another to natural conduct. Scarcely a
feature of it may not be indifferently pronounced the
lineament of guilt or innocence. In such a case a
court of justice has no alternative. It must pronounce in favour of innocence.
The decrees below will, therefore, be reversed,
and the vessels and cargoes adjudged to the captors.
Mr. Justice STORY gave no opinion.
Sentence reversed.
Vot. It

Z

177
is17.
'"'"'

The

noih*,

and

JahaatofF

