CASES IN THE SUPRE5ME COURT
l'iticle qui nous occupe. En effer, more limited application of the
d'un c6ti, it a evit6 de dire dans cet principle may'seem to be indica'Tee Dos
article'que l'aepteation seraitdon- ted. Btit upon an inspection of
Hermanos. ne6 sur la lettre de change, de peur that case, it will be found that the
de paroitreitablir une rigle abso- supreme couit of Now-York de,
lue de laquelle on se seraitfaitune clined expressing any opinion upfin non-recevoircontre I'acceptation tffi the question whether a propar lettre missives. D'un autre mise to accept a bill not in easo
c6ti, le conseila pens que, puisque would amount to an accoptaswo,
la loin'exclut pas l'aceptation and whether an endorsee could
par lettre missive, on en onclueroit avail himself of such promise and
naturllement qu'elle la perme?." maintain an action on the bill
The suEsprit du Code de Commerce, par against the drawee.
preme court of Massachusetto
J. G. Locr6, tom. 2. p. 89.
Such is the law of France on also, in the case of Wilsen v. Clethi; subject. That of England is ments, (3 .Mass. Rep. 1.,) avoidfully analyzed in the above opi- ed a determination of the question
nion. In the tribunals of our own whether a promise to accept be-'
country, the first case which oc- fore the bill was drawn, amounted
curs on the subject, 'is that of to an acceptance, because the bill
M'Kim v. Smith et al. (1 Hall's was not drawn in due season after
Law Journal,486.,) in which the the promise was made. But the
doctrine of the *above opinion is above decision in the text may to
fully recognised.
The next is considered as settling the law of
that of M'Evers v. Mason, (10 the country on this subjc.ct.
Johns. Rep. 207.,) in which a
1817.

(PRIZE.)

The Dos HXr*MANqos---Grem, Claimant.
In prize causes, the evidence to acquit, or condemn, must come, in tho
first instance, from the papers and crew of the captured ship.
It is the duty of the captors to bring the ship's papers into the registry of the district court, and to have the examiua4ions of the principal offers and seamen of the captured ship taken on the standior
interrogatores.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
It is exclusively upon these papers and examinations that the cause
1817.
is to be heard in the first instance: If; from ihis evidence, the property clearly appears to be hostile or neutral, condemnation or The Dna
restitution immediately follows: If-the property appears to be doubt- Hermanca.
ful, or the case suspicious, farther proof may be granted according
to the rules which govern the legal discretion of the court.
If the parties have been guilty of gross fraud, or misconduct, or illegality, farther proof is not allowed, and condemnatibn follosss.
Although some apology may be found in the state ofpeace which hadso
long existed previousto thpe latewar, for the irregularities which hd
crept into the prize practice, that apology no longer exists; and if
such irregularities should hereafter occur, it may be proper to withhold condemnation even in the clearest cases, unless the irregularities are avoided or explained.
If a party attempts to impose upon the -court, by knowingly or fraudulently claiming as his own, property beloogibg in part to others, he
will not be entitled to restitution of that portion which ho may ultimately establish as his own.
It seeras that where a native citizen of the United States emigrated
before a declaration of war to a neutral country, there acquired a
domicil, and afterwards returned to the United States during the
war and re-acquired his native domicil, he became a redintegrated
American citizen; and could not afterwards, flagrante bello, ac.
quire a neutral dom icil by again emigrating to his adopted coun-

fry.
The claimants have no right to litigate the question i'hether the cap-'
tors were-duly commissioned; the claimants have no personadandi
injudid to assert the rights of.the United States: But if the capture be made by a non-commissioned captor, the prize will be condemned to the United States.

APPEAL

from the district court for the Louisiana

district.
This was the case of a Spanish schooner captured
on the 18th of October, 1814, by Mr. Shields, s
purser in the navy, commanding an armed barge, in
the service of the United Statesy ostensibly bound
with a cargo of crates and dry-goods, on a voyage
from Jamaicato Pensacola, but in fact in. pursuance

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of an asserted change of destination, then in proseof a voyage to Now-Orleans. The schooner
The Dos
Hermanos. was delivered up, and prize proceedings were instfiute'd against the cargo, in the district court for Louisiana district. Upon thd return of the moniion various
claims were interposed for small adventures or parts
of the cargo; but the only questions before the court
arose upon the claim of Mr. Basil Green, calling himself a citizen of the Republic of Carthagena, who, by
his agents, Mr. John F. Miller and Messrs. Lewis &,
Lee, asserted an ownership to nearly the whole of
the cargo. Mr. Miller, in his affidavit annexed to
the claim, states, " that he purchased the goods so
claimed; with moneys in his hands belonging to the
claimant; that at the time of the purchase, he expected to have had an interest therein, but that on
his arrival atNew-Orleans, the attorney in fact of
the said claimant (meaning Mr. Lewis) refused to
allow -any such interest, and the deponent is therefore obliged'to give up the sam6 ; and this deponent
further saith, that the facts contained in the said
claim are true to the best of his knowledge, information, and belief." At the hearing in the diptrict
eourt, the claim was rejected, and the goods were
condemned as the property of enemies, or of citizens
trading with the enemies of the United States.
1817.

Scution

Feb. Iut.

Mr. Harper,for the appellant and claimant, argued,
upon the facts,. that the proprietary interest in the
cargo was in the claimant, and that he (though a
native citizen) had a right to change his domicil,'and
did change it bonafidc to Carthagena, in South Ame-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ri.;a, where he was a resident merchant, and in his

1817.

neutral character had a right to trade with the ene-

my of his native dountry.a He further suggested HermlD.
that the captor wag not duly authorized to capture,
there being no evidence that the armed barge, which
mrde the capture, was 'duly incorporated into the
navy.b
Mr. KI, contra, argued that the residence of the
claimant at Carthagena was temporary only, and
that the, whole transaction was infected with fraud
and falsehood.
Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the' L- ch:.
court.
Before we consider the merits of this claim it may
not be unfit to advert to some of the principles applicable to proceedings in prize causes, which seem to
have been wholly neglected in the progress of this
cause.

It is the established rule in courts of prize, that the
evidence to acquit or condemn must, in the first instance, come from the papers and crew of the captured ship. On this account it is the duty of the
captors, as soon as practicable, to bring the ship's
papers into the registry of the .district court, and
to have the examinations of the principal officers and
a 1 Wheat. 65, note (i.1
b 5 Rob. 41. The Melemasne. lb. 252. The Charlottq.
(a.) The Isand of Curragoa, &c.

ib, note

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

seamen of the captured ship taken before the disjudge, or commissioners appointed by him,
Hermanos. upon the standing interrogatories. It is exclugively
upion these papers and the examinations, taken'inprcparato io, that the cause is'to be heard before the.
district court. If, from the whole evidence, the property clearly appear to be hostile, or neutral, condemnation or acquittal immediately follows. If, on
ihe other hand, the property appear doubtful? or the
case be clouded with suspici6ns or inconsistencies, it
then.becomes a case of farther proof, which the court
will direct or deny, according to the rules which govern its legal discretion on this subject Farther
proof is not a matter of course. It is granted 'in case's
of honest mistake or ignorance, or to clear away any
doubts or defects consistent with good faith. But if
the parties have been guilty of gross fraud or misbonduct, oi illegality, farther proof is not allowed;
and under such circumstances, the parties are visited
with all the fatal consequences of an original hostile
character. It is essential, therefore, to the correct
administration of prize law, that the regular modes
of proceeding hould be observed with the utriost
strictness; and it is a great mistake to allow common
law notions in respect to evidence or practice, to prevail in proceedings'which have very little analogy to
those at common law.
These remarks have been drawn forth by an exanination of the present record. The court could
not but observe with regret that great irregularities
had attended the cause in the court below. Neither
were thq ship's papers produced by the captors, nor
1817.

%trict
The Dos

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the captured crew examined upon the standing interrogatories." Witnesses were produced by the libellants and the claimant indiscriminately at the trial,
and their testimony was taken in open court upon
any and all points to which the parties chose to interrog:1e them, and upon this testimony and the documentary proofs offered by the witnesses, the cause
was heard and finally adjudged. In fact there was
nothing to distinguish the cause from an ordinary
proceeding in a mere revenue cause in rem.
Thi' court cannot but watch with considerable
solicitude irregularities, which so materially impair
-the simplicity of prize proceedings, and the rights
and duties of the parties. Some apology for them
may be found in the fact, that froin our having: been
long at peace, no opportunity was afforded to learn
the correct practice in prize'causes. But that apolo.
gyho longer exists and if such irregularities should
hereafter occur it may be proper to adopt'a more rigorous course, ana to withhold condemnation in the
clearest .cases,. unless such irregularities are avoided
or explained. In the present case the first fault was
that of the captors; and if the claimant had sbffered
any prejudice from it, this court w6uld certainly restore to him every practicable benefit. But in fact
no such prejudice has arisen. The claimant.has
had, in the court below, the indulgence and benefit
of farther proof and of collateral aids to verify the
truth of his claim, -, nd he stands at least'upon as favouriabfe a ground tq suptbin it as if the cause bad
been conducted wiKth the most scrupulous form.

Two questions have been arguded at the bar, First.,
Vo. It

1817.
The Doo.

Hermauc,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

whether Mr. Basil Green, the asserted owner, hai
established his proprietary interest in the goods in
1J~rmalloi., question; and secondly, supposing this point decided
in his favour, whether he has proved himself a neutral merchant, entitled by his domicil and national
pharacter to 4 restitution of the property.
It appears by the evidence in the case that Mr.
Green was born in Maryland, and resided in that
state, and principally at Baltimore, until the year
1809, when he went abroad. In 1811 he resided'in
Carthagena; and in the spring' of 1813, be came to
New-Orleans from Carthagena, in a schooner under
Carthagenian colours, and being unable to sell her,
e determined, in connexion with Messrs. John F.
Miller, Lewis & Lee, and others, inhabitants of
New-Orleans, who became jointly interested with
him, to fit her out as an American privateer. Ac.,
¢ordingly, on or about 'the 13th of March, 1813, Mr..
Green applied to the collector of the customs at New4
Orleans for a commission ; and in his petition he described her as the private atmed schooner Hornet,
of New-Orleans, owned by Basil Green. The com.mision was granted, and soon afterwards Mr. Green
Failed in the privteer on her destined cruise. In
June, 1813, he was, as he alleges, compelled by a
pnutiny of the crew to go tQ Carthagena, whore they
deserted, and the cruise was broken up, and the privateer" was finally sold; of all which he gave inforpiation to the other owners at New-Oleans, and
promised to remit their proportions of the proceeds,
While at New:Orleans in April, 1813, Mr. Green ex.uted
i~tter of atimrney, appointirif Messrs. L.evi
1817.
o
The Dos

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-

8

& Lee of that city, his general attornies and agentsi
1317z
and in this power he described himself, as " Basil Trhe Dcm
Green, of Baltimore, merchant." He does not ap- flermno3
pear since that period, to have returned to the United
States. In July, 1814, he was a resident at .Carthagena, and is described by one other witness, as having a house and store there. Such are the most material facts respecting Mr. Green's domicil apparent
on the record.
In respect to the proprietary interest in the goods
claimed by him, the evidence is more complicated.
The whole adventure was conducted by Mr. John
F. Miller, of New-Orleans, (one of the proprietors
of the Hornet,) from whose: testimony it appears,
that the owuers of the Hornet, resident at NewOrleans, having received information of her sale,
and being desirous of receiving their funds, he, Miller, on. his own account, and as their agent, determined lo make a voyage to Carthagena for this
purpose. He accordingly in June, 1814, went from
New-Orleans to St. Jago de Cuba, and from thenco
to Jamaica, (as the only practicable route,) and from
thence to Carthagena. When he left New-Orleans;
he took a draft from Messrs. Lewis & Lee on Mr.
Green, for 2,500 dollars, and a letter from the same
gentlemen to Messrs. O'Hara & Offiy, mechants
at Jamaicai authorizing them to pay him the balance
of their accounts, whatever it migKt be. At Carthagena, in August, 1814, he received from Mr.
Green, the sum of 1,500 dollars. and 50 cents, in
part of the draft of Messrs. Lewis & Lee. He also
received from Mr. Green the whole of the nett pre-

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
The Dos

Hermano.

ceeds of the sale of the Hornet, amounting tq the
,sum of 11,636 dollars, of which his oivn share
amounted to 1,500 dollars, and that of Mr. Green,
to 4,129 dollars and 2 cents; and he gave a receipt
to Mr; Green for this amount, promising, on his ar-ival at New-Orleans, (sea risks and captures excepted.) to pay over to the stockholders their respective' proportions, deducting all necessary charges. Mr. Green directed his share to be remitted
to his nephew a( Baltimore, by written instructions
contained ina letter directed to Mr. Miller, as follows: "Carthagena, August 12, 1814, Mr. John F.
Maler. My dear sir-On your safe arrival in the'
New-Orleans, sea risks and captures exceptediyou are.
authorized'and appointed, at my wish, in, Which you
will please to remit on to 'my nephew, Mr. George
A. Stamp, of Baltimore, the sum of 4,129 dollarb
and 2 cents, after deducting the charges thereon,
and you will much oblige your friend-,-Respect,&
fully-:-B. Green." On the .29th of Aogust, Mr.
Green -addressed a letter to' his" nephew, in the
following paragraph: "Mr. John F. Miller, a
particular friend'of mine, will remit on to you, in
good bills, after his safe arrival in New-OrleanS, the
sum of 4,129 dollars and 25 cents, agreeable to hib
receipt on the same,- now in my possession. Perhapb he may, remit you a 1,000 or 1,500 dollars
more, if fortune favours his prospects-" At what
period Mr. -Miller left Carthagena, does n6t precis@ly appear, but he says, that he thinks it was before
the,20th of August, and that the letter of the 29th
4 August, was sent to him at Jamaica, Previouo

OF THE UNITED. STATES.
1817.
to his departurp, he further asserts, that Mr. Green
of
share
his
lay
out
to
instructions
',erbal
.gave him
The D&3
the money in goods, at Jamaica, instead of remitting Hernm
it to his nephew, and also by a written authority,
under date of the 12th of August, authorized him, if
he thought proper, to draw on him for the further
sum of 2,500 dollars, at five days sight. From Car-.
thagena, Mr. Miller went to Jamaica, where he endeavoured to purchase a small vessel; but failing in
his obje.ct, he, on the 9th of September, 1814, charter-d the Spanish schooner Dos Hermanos, Captain
Delgado master and owner, then lying at Kingston.
By the charier-party, which was made by Messrs.
O'Hara & Offley, on behalf of the owner of the one
part, and Mr. Mliller of the other part, it was agreed
that the sum of I,b00 dollars should be-given for the
charter of the vessel for a voyage from Kingston to
Pensacola, in West Florida, and back again to Kings,
ton. That after herarrival at Pensacola, Mr. Miller
ahould put on board, within 18 days, a return cargo
of the produce of.the country, to be consigned to
Messrs. O'Hara & Offley for sale; and should fur.,
ther invest the amount .of the freight in cotton oi'
tobacco, on account of Mr. Delgado, and ship it oft
the return voyage, freight free, unless, it -occupied
more than a stipulated portiofi of the room of the
vessel. "Mr. Miller was further to pay all port
charges, and in case of detention beyond 18 dayeg
demurrage, also, 't the rate of 16 dollars per day,

And it- was further agreed, that if the situation d'
.that part of the world should be such as to preclude
any cbmmunication between New-Orleans and Pen.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sacola, and prevent Mr. Miller from procuring a full
return cargo or as much cotton and tobacco as
The Dos
iermanow. should be required for the amount of the charter,
then the said amount of 1,500 dollars was to be
paid over on account of the said O'Hara & Offley,
to Mr. John'k. West, of New-Orleans ; and in that
event, and payment of ill port charges, Miller was
to be at'liberty to decline loading the vessel on
the rturn voyage. Immediately after the execution
of this charter-party, Mr. Miller loaded or, board of
the schooner the goods in. question, through the
agency of Messrs. O'Hara & Offley; and drew, a!
bill for 2,500 dollars in their favour, on Mr. Green,
and received from them, for the account of Messrs.
Lewis & Lee, the sum of 900 dollars. The whole
cargo, with an inconsiderable exception, was documented as the property of a Don Joan Lesado, of
Pensacola, and purported. to be the proceeds of the
sales of a former cargo consigned by him to Messrs.
O'Hara & Offley. Among these documents, which
are asserted by the claimant to 1e merely colourable,
there is an invoice account current of the sales of a
supposed former cargo; and a letter of advice,
stating that the schooner was chartered for the
voyage on account of Don Juai Lesado, and that the
cargo, consisting of dry -goods, was a return cargo
purchased by his orders. There is, also, a bill of
lading consigning the cargo to the same ,perton.
Mr. Miller alleges this artifice to have been resorted
to to preserve the shipment from British and Spanish
capture, The schooner sailed on the voyage about
the 13th of Septemtzqr, with Mr. Miller on, board,
1817.

OF ,THE .UNITED STATES&,

-and having been driven by currents considerably 1817.
to the westward of Pensacola, and being in the Bay Th Do3
of St.-Bernard, Mr. Miller left the schooner about HerDol.
thefirst of October, in a boat, which he had purchased at Jamaica, for the purpose, and proceeded
for New-Orleans, leaving the property under the
control and directions of a Mr. Bassett, who was a
passenger on board. On the 13th of October, Mr.
Miller arrived at New-Orleans. In the meantime
the schooner proceeded to Dauphin Island, and there
Mr. Bassett undertook (as he alleges) to change
the destination, and determined to proceed 'to NewOrleans; and, for this purpose, on the 14th of October, 1814, he entered into a new char'ter-party in
'behalf of Mr. Miller, by which it was agreed betiieen
Mr. Bassett, as agent of Mr. Miller, and Captain
Delgado for himself and Messrs. O'Hara & Offley,
that for the additional sum of 1,100 dollars, the
vessel should immediately proceed from Dauphin
Island for- the Bayou St.' John, near the city. of
New-Orleans, and there deliver the said cargo to
Mr. Miller, his agents or assigns. The schooner
was soon afteirwards captured by the libellants,
detained in the Bay of St. Lewis, arid subsequently
brought to Petit Coquille. After his arrival at NewOrleans, and before knowledge of the capture, Mr.
Miller wrote the following letter to.Mr.-Bassett
-New-Orleans, 15th of October, 1814. Dear sir,
I arrived here' o1 thie 15th in the morning, after 12
days suffering, and found all my family as well as
could be expected from the situation of this place
and Pensacola. ! have fhouglt proper to remain

so

CASES IN THE SUPREAIE COURT

without doing any thing until I hear-of your arrivh]
The Doz and news from you. I would advise, by all means,
ermaog to fetch the vessel and cargo to Mobile point, if no
farther, if possible. I believe it can be done without much or no danger. I believe, also, it is practicable to procure a permission from ihe English
commander to come to New-Orleans with the
schooner, provided you promise to return with piovisions that. they stand in need of. Try every means
in your power tp effect the arrival here of yourself
and schooner. Should you get the schooner here, A
shall mebt a ready sale for the crockery Ware, and
the schooner a ready despatch. Blankets sell ready
at nine dollars per pair. Try and make arrangements with Delgado to fetch the schooner here, as
t is certainly greatly to his advantage as well as
ours. I depend upon your known activity, and remain your friend. In haste, the vessel is about to
eaal,
(Signed.)
JOHDI F. MDtILR.
P. S. All those pirates are destroyed at Barataria,
Tobacco, best qualiiy, six cents, dull.
(Signed.)
,MMhLER.
I have not time to write to Delgado, but .will
next opportunity. Should you not. have consigned
the schooner and cargo to any person, you may
place any confidence in Mr. Joseph Moreiga, as X
know him well."
Mr. Miller asserts that he brought. a consider.
able sum of money in dollars and doubloons from
Jamaica, of which he took 4,500 doliNrs, when he
left the schooner, in the boat, for New-Orleans,
and the residue, amounting to about 18 or 1900,dol
lars, which was stored.-a-way in, several crates of
1817.

OF THB UNITED STATFA.

goods, he afterwards contrived to 'obtain from the
i817.
schooner in the night time -while she lay at Petit The Das
Coquilles. All the letters brought inithe schoonef Herinan=
from Jamaica were taken by Mr. Miller, and all the
documents respecting the cargo came from his hands
during his several examinations in court.
F ch is the general outline of the case, as to the
question of proprietary interest in the goods claimed in behalf of Mr. Green. An examination of some
other minutei though important particulars, will properly arise in the subsequent discussion of this question;

The first thirig that strikes us on the zlightest survey of this cause, is the total absence of all documentary proof to establish the claim o"Mr. Green.
The shipment was made in the enemy's eountry in
the name of an enemy, and ultimately destined for
sale at Mobile or New-Orleans, if the parties should
be able to accomplish the voyage. The 'property
was clothed with a Spanish characier, as Mr. Miller
asserts,' to protect it from British and Spanish capture. It is cdrtainly the duty ofneutrals to put on
board of their ships suflicient papers to show the real
character of ,the property, and if' their conduct be
fair and honest, there can rarely occur an occasion
to use disguis e, or false documents. At all events,
when false or colourable documents aie uted, the
necessity or reasonableness of the excuse bught to
be very clear and unequivocal to induce a court of
prize to rest satisfied '_ith it. To 'say the least of
it,-.the excuse is not, in this case, satisfactory; for the
disguise is as strongly pointed to elude.American, as
VOL.

IM

M

CASES IN THE STJPkEIE COURT
1817.
The Dqu~

Hermanos.

British or Spanish capture. It isnot pretended that
any genumnpapers were put on board,.or are now

in existence, which would explain the circumstdncei;
for Mr. Miller himself, in an answer to an interrogatory on this point, says he', had from Mr. Green
no written irisirictions, nor did he enter into'a written contract -with Mr. Green respecting the goods
to be purchased at Jamaica; that Mr. Green would
have given written instructions, but hei Mr. Miller,
objected to it, as in base of capture it would have
been insecure. He adds, that there are no letters or
papers at Carthagena that can throw any light on
this subject, and that not having received any, he was
unwilling to leave any.

In the next place, there is not, with the exception
of Mr. Miller's, the slightest testimony from the ship's
crew that the property belonged to Mr. Green. The
master and mate of the schooner, and Mr. Bassett
also, the agent of 'Mr. Miller, expresily state, that
thei always believed Mr. Miller'to be the real owner,
and that he never named any other person to them
as the owner, though he'sometimes alluded darkly
to a possible ownerslip in 6thers. It is a general
rule of the prize law, not to admit claims which
stand in entire opposition to the ship's papers, and to
the preparatory examinations, where the voyages
have originated after the war. The rule is founded upon this simple reason, that it would open a
door to fraud ii an incalculable extent, if persons
were not required to describe their property
with perfect fairness. The rule, however, is not
inflexible ; it yields to cases of necessity, or where,

eF THE UNITED STATE4-.

by !he course of the trade, simulated papers be- 1817.
come indispensable, as in a trade licensed by the The Do'
state with tue public enemy. It may be -said, that Hermans.
the rule cannot be applied to the present case, because Mr. Miller is to be deemed one of the ship's
crew, although he had, some time before the cap"ture, left the vessel, and was, at the time of capture, at New-Orleans; and that his examinations (for
he was examined several times) established the interest of Mr. Green, and so the claim is consistent
with what ought to have been the evidence in pre.aratorio. Assuming this argument to be correct,
on wvhich we give no opinion, the circumstances
of
this case 'call for the .most plenary 'explanations
to dissipate the doubts which cannot' fail to'be
awakened.
These explanations come altogether from Mr.
MAiller, and z4e unsupported by any corroborative
documents, or facts asserted upon independent testimony. All that the other principal'witnesses have
testified to, which bears directly on the causes consists of declarations or confessions, or-acts of Mr.
Miller, after his return to New-Orleans. Mr. Miller
fmself certNinly stands in a predicament which does
46t lend additional credit to his assertions. He was
the projector of the, voyage, and the conductor of
all its operations. He chartered the vessel in his
own name; and if lie was acting for Mr. Green, and
not for himself, what motive could there be for him
to conceal his agency from Messrs. O'Hara & Offley,
or from' Captain Delgado? The voyage itself was
illegal in an American citizen. The charter-p.rty

CASES IN* THE SUPREM1E COURT
181'7.

-" '
The Dos
aos.

-err

stipulated for a return cargo to Jamaica, which was
to be furnished by Mr. Miller, and he does not pretend that this cafgo was to have been shipped on
Mr. Green's account. It must have been a traffick on
his own account, or a joint, concern with Messrs.
O'Hara & Ofley ; and in either view wag a surrend,?r of all the obligations which he owed to hig
country. These considerations cannot certainly increase our confidence- in the integrity of the con,duct of Mr. Miller,
On examining his testimony there are many circumstances which cannot fail to create unfavourable
doubts. The test affidavit itself is couched in very
equivocal language. Mr. .Miller there asserts, that
-4t the time of the purchase he expected to hae an.
interest inthe goods, but that on his arrival at NewOritang, the attorney in fact of the claimants refused to allow any such interest, and ihe deponent
was obliged to give up the same, What authority
could Mr. Lewis, the attorney here alluded to, have
to intermeddle with Mr. Miller's interest in the shipment ? ie was rot the 'consignee of the property,
nor was he confidentially acquainted with any
agreement or instructions of Mr. Green relafive to
the voyage. It isscarcely credible that the real
coinsign.ee of the goods, having an interest in them,
should, under such circnmstanccs, yield it uip to a
mere intruder. In his examination in chief , Mr. Miller states, that it was his original intention to have
Invested his own funds, as well as Mr. Green's, at
Jamaica; but he was induced to abandon it by reports that the British intended to -occupy Pensacolq

OF THIP UNITED STATES.
1817.
and Mobile Point; and he explains his interest in
the shipment to have been only a right to one third T71e Da3
Homano.
of the profits in lieu of commissions.
"This representation is not consistent
with the lan-

guage held by Mr. Miller on other occasions. After
the capture Mr. Miller stated to Captain Delgado,
that "he had got himself ,into a difficulty in consequence of his (Delgado's) c6ming here'; that the
greaterpart of the funds invested in the goods belonged
to Mr. Green; that he (Miller) was acting for others,
and that he feared he should gei himself into difficulty." Upon an inquiry from the same pqrson
during the voyage from Kingston, whether he was
the owner, Mr. Miller answeri.d, "that he did not
know-that he had funds from Carthagena." On
another occasion, Mr. Miller gave another wi(nps,
(Mr. Mlvaine) to understand, "that the cargo uas
purchased on his (Miller's) and Green's account."
And in a conversation with'a Mr. West, who was
the confidential agent of Messrs. O'Hara and Offley,
and received a letter by the schooner advising him
of the voyage, he left the impression on Mr. West's
mind that the cargo was his own. The language,
too, that Miller held with Mr. Heins, (the mate
of the schooner,) after the capture, is very significant. He said, "It was a hard case that le should
lose his property in that way; that it was the earnings of many years."
There are some other discrepancies in the declarations of Mr. Miller, which are not easily to be accounted for. Mr. Miller, in his examination, states,
that Mr. Green authorized him to invest in goods

CASES IN THE-21PPE COURT

1 .

tl 9 .mqtey belonging to him; .rqA that after he chlr~ te,r~d the schpoon it Ivap his irtention to Jay out
,nima. Mr. Green's funds, ,as well as his own;, in
the purchase of goods; but that subsequent evehts induced
him not to liy out his own funds, and that he' l4id
out ftr Mr. Green about 6,000 dollars only. In
his conversation with Mr. Lewis. he stated, that therm
was an arrangement between Mr. Green and himself; that if he thought proper upon his arrival at
Jamaica, he might invest in goods the whole'of the
11,686 dollars, and more, (for which he was authorized to draw on Mr. Green, if necessary,) on the
joint account of himself and Mr. Green; that after
his arrival at Jamaica he thought he would enter
into this speculation; and, thereuplon, he drew upon
Mr. Green for 2,500 dollars; and that &fter the
draft was maide he discovered that he had not any
right to make this disposition of the funds of the
stockholders in the Hornet, and, accordingly, heolaid
out 60o0 dollars of Mit. Green's money, supposing
he ought to have an interest in it himself, as a cornpensation for his trouble.
In determining the real character of this whole
transaction it becomes material to ascertain the 'true
value of the cargo shipped by Mr. Miller. He asserts it to be about 6,000 dollars; but no original invoice, or other genuine paper is produced to prove
its cosl at Jamaica. According to Mr. Bassett, it
was worth about 7 or 8,000 dollars; and Capt. Delgado says,.that while lading it, Mr. Miller told him
it would amount to about 8 or 10b00 dollars. IC
their cargo cost but 6,000 dollars, it may be asked,
what became of the residue of the money in tie

OF TgE UNITED STATES.

'hands of Mr. Miller? According to his own account,

m817.

he received for'the sales of the Hornet 11,636 dol- Tba]Dw
lars; from O'Hara & Offley 900 dollars; and he drew .tzxnw.
a bill on Mr. Green, in part payment of the goods,
for 2,600 dollars, making in the whole, the aggregate
sum of fourteen thousand dollars. Thpre remained,
therefore, after the purchase of the goods, in the
hands of Mr. Miller, about 8,000 dollars. What ha
• ecoffi of this fund belonging to himself and the
stockholders in the Hornet? Here, as indeed in every
other material part of the cause, the explanation
comes exclusively from Mr. Mill.er. He says, that
when he left the schooner in St. Bernard's.Bay, he
took away with him in the boat the sum of 4;500
dollars; 'and that while the schooner. lay at Petit
Coquilles, he took away from some crates on board
of the schooner, in which it was concealed, the further sum of 1.8 or 1900 dollars. It is true that Captain Delgado says that when Miller left the schooner
he took away with him a bag, which; he supposes,
contained dollars, 'but he does not pretend. even to
guess at the amount; and it is remarkable, that none
of the passengers are intekrogated on this subject.
But the statement in relation to the 18 or 1900 dollars is wholly incredible. The mate -flatly denies
that it could have been taken out of the crates in the
manner which Miller asserts; and Mr. Bassett manifestlyconsiders it almost impossible. - What idds to
the incredibility of the statement is, 'that when Mr.
MiJI& left the schooner, he never informed Mn Bassett that--there was any money concealed in any of
the 'cates, although he expressly constituted him his
agent to dispose of the cargo, without any reserve.

96

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

The Dus

If the funds were brought to New-Orleans hi
nmoney, as Mr. Miller pretends, nothing could havo

Bermanos. been more easy of proof than the fact, considering
that a large proportion of it belonged to the other
stockholders in the Hornet. By the very terms of his
receipt he was bound to pay over to them their respective proportions on his arrival at New-Orleans.
Has he done so ? There is not the slightest proof to
this effect in the case. On the contraryl several of
the stockholders, or their agents, have been examined, and not one of them admits his proportion to have
been paid. Indeed, Mr. Miller himself admits that
he has never paid any; and gives this extraordinary
excuse, that he had orders fiom Mr. Green not to
pay over the money until three months after his arrival at New-Orleans. This excuse is entirely at vatiance with the receipt given by Mr. Miller, and is
as little reconcilable with the letter of Mr. Green to
his neplhew, respecting his own remittance. It may
be added, that the statement itself has very little intrinsic probability to support it.
It is, therefore, no harshness to declare, that the
declarations of Mr. Miller, that be brought home so
very considerable a sum, are not of themselves on'titled to much credit, and, under the circumstapces,
cannot be received as satisfactory evidence of the
fact by this court; and if so; then every suspicion
that the whole funds were invested, in the cargo is
greatly inflamedi and every doubt of the good faith
of the present claim materially strengthened.
There are many other circumstatnces in the case
which tend to a discredit of the claim; but it would

OP THE UNITED STA.TES.

occupy too much time to discuss them minutely. One
circumstance,'however, deserves particular notice. It

1817.
The Dos

is the letter of Mr. Miller written to Mr. Bassett, after Hermanow.

his arrival at New-Orleans, which may almost be said
to carry, in every line of it, the language and feelings
of an owner of thd goods. And it' adds no inconsiderable force to these observations; that the only
documents on board pointing to Mr. Green, are inconsistent with the supposition that the goods were
purchased on his account; and the only doubtful expression in them may well be satisfied as referring to
money to be obtained by Mr. Miller, from a Mr.
Hardy, of Jamaica, who was indebted to Mr. Green.
Considering, then, that the present claim rests altogether upon the testimony of Mr. Miller, given by
him after he well knew the form and pressure of the
cause, and liable, as it must be, to the strongest
doubts, both from the predicament in which he stands,
and the circumstances which have been already stated, the court cannot admit that it is supported by
any reasonable evidence. It is not material in our
view, whether the property belonged wholly to Mr.
Miller, or to him jointly with Green, or was purchased with the funds of the stockholders of the
Hornet, on his own account, as an unauthorized speculation, or on joint accoutt with'their authority; for
in either case it is liable to the same judgment. It
is a settled rule of this court, that if a party will attempt to impose upon the court by knowingly or
fraudulently claiming as his own property belonging
in part to others, he shall not be entitled to a restitution of that portion which he may ultimately asVOL. If.

N

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT

98
1817.

tablish as his own. Thi§ rule is founded in the ptirest
~ principles of morality and justice, and would bear

The Dos

Mermanos.

upon the claim of Mr. Green, supposing his domicil,
as a nieutral, were ever so dlealy established.
In respect to the domicil of Mr. Greeti, there io
certainly mudh reason to doubt if it would be sufficient to protect him, even if he could show himself
at the time of the capture, a citizen of Carthagena.
For, if upon his return to New-Orleans after the
war, he acquired a -domicil there, (of which, the circumstance of his becoming the owner of a privateer
in that port, affords a -strong presumption,) he becathe a redintegrated American citizen, and lie could'
not, by an emigration' afterwards,flagrantebello, acquire a neutral character so as to separate himself
from that of his native country.
The counsel for.the claimant, aware of the pressure of his case upon the present evidence, has prayed to.be admitted to niake farther proof, whic'h hor
states to be now in his possession. If this cause turied upon the question of domicil, the court would feel
little hesitation in admitting it. But considering the
manner 'in which the cause was conducted 'in the
court below, and that the claiwant there had the
benefit of farther proof, and that' it appears to us
that upon the question of proprietary interest, the
cause now admits of no fair and reasonable explanatioh,
consistent *ith an exclusive interest in Mr. Green,
we do not feel.at liberty to make an order for fagtherproof. We are not satisfied that it would be a
§afior convenient rule, unless, ubder very special circumstances, to allow parties who haye had the benq,.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

9

fit of plenary proof in'the court below, to have an 1817.
for farther proof in this court upon the same The Dos
points. Much less should we incline to allow it in a Hermano.
case of pregnant suspicion, where the evidence must
come from sources tainted with so maPy unwholesome personal interests, and so many infusions of
doubtful credit.
The claim Qf Mr. Green must, therefore, be rejected, and the goods be condemned as good and lawful prize.
It has been urged, that there is no evidence'upon
the record that the captors were duly commissioned,
and that farther proof ought to be required on this
point. This, however, is a question which the claimant has no right to litigate. He has no legal ptanding before the court to assert tile rights of the' United States. If the capture was without d commsssion, the condemnation must be to the United States
generally; if with a commission, as a nalional vessel, it must still be to the United States,-but the proceeds.are to be distributedby the court among the
captors according to law. It will be time enough to
:require the commission to be produced, when the
proceeds are to be distributed by the court, if the
United States shall then insist ulpon any exclusive
claim;
Decree affirmed with costs.,
-order

a Vide APPE.mix, Note I.

