REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
*OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF TH1E UNITED) STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1817.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

SLOCUM V. MAYBERRY

et a],

Ihe courts of the United States have exclusive juris&tion of all
seizures made on land or water, for a breach of the laws of the

United States; and any iziterrention of a state authority which,
bytaking.the thing seized out of the hands of the United State3
officer, might obstruct the exercise of this jurisdiction, is unlawful.
1n such a case, the court of the United States, having cognizance of
the seizure, may entorce a re-delivery of the thing, by attachment,
or other supnmary process,
The que. 8h under 'uch a seizure, whether a forfeiture has been
actuatLyincurred, belongs exclusively to the courts of the United
States, Aud it depends upon the final decree of such courts whether
the seizure is to bedeemed rightful or tortious.
If the seizing officer refue to institute proceedings to ascortain (he
VoL. IL
A

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
aggriovcA
for eiture, the district court nay, upon application of the
pat .y, compel the officer to proceed to ,adjudication, or to abandon
the seizure.
Slocum
v.
And if the seizure be finally adjudged wrongfid, and without probable.
Mayberry.
cause, the party way proceed, at bia~election, by a suit at common
law, or in the instance court of admiralty, for damages for the illegal act.
But the common law remedy in such a case must be sought for in the
state courtp: the courts of the United States having no jurisdiction to
decide on the conductuf their officers, in the execution of their laws,
in shits at common law, until the case shall have passed through
the state courts.
Where a seizure was made, ufidel; the IIth section of the Embargo
-Act of April, 1808, it was determined that no power is given by
law to detain the cargoif separated from the vessel, and that the
owner had a right to tiko the cargo out of the vessel, and to din.
pose of it in any way not prohibited by law; and in case of its d'
tention, to bring an action of replevin therefor in the state court.
1817,

ERROR

on a judgment rendered by the supreme

court for the state of Rhode-Island.
John Slocum, the plaintiff in error, was surveyor
of the customs for the port of Newport, in Rhode-

Island, and under the directions or ile collector had
seized the Venus, lying in that port with a cargo,
ostensibly bound to some other port in the United,
States. The defendants in error, who- were owners
of the cargo, broisgh-t their writ of repl6vin in the
state .court of Rhode-Island for the restoration of

the property. The defendant pleaded that the
Venus was laden in the night, not under the inspec.
tion of the proper revenue officers; and that the
collector .of the port, suspecting an intention to
violate the embargo laws,' had directed him to seize
and detain her till the opinion of the presideni

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1317.
should be known on the case; and concluded to the
jurisdiction of' the court. The same matter was
v.
also pleaded in bar. To both these pleas the plaintiff in the state court demurred, and the defendants Maiyberry.
joined in demurrer. Judgment having been rendered in favour of the plaintiff in the state court, the
cause was removed into this court by writ of error.

The Attoriny-General for the plaintiff in error.
. The seizure was well made under the I 1t6 section
of the embargo act of the 25th of April, 1808. The
nature and extent of the power vested in the revenue -officers was settled in the case of Crowell v.
MFadon.a Even admitting that, according to the
doctrine held in the'case of the Paulinab we landing without a permit, contrary to the second section,
does not work a forfeiture, (the denial of a clearance
being the only penalty,) still the efficacy of ihe
eleventh section'justifies and protects the bfiicer.
2. The case being brought under the cognizance of
the United States, and within the jurisdiction of their
courts, by the just exercise of an authority by one
of their officers, the-state court had no right to
interfere, and arrest the seizure by-its process. In
the case of the Favourite,c three of the judges held,
that "the conduct of the saivors in taking the goods
out of the possession of the revenue officers, though
by 16gal process, was improper." This intifiiation
a 8 Granch, 96.

e 4 C4_qnh, -347. See als L
2 HaWo law Joural, 195.

b 7 Cr.A'l, 52.

ianzt,, 138.

aodraftr'

case.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Slocum
V.
NTayberry.

is the stronger, as the wrecked goods were.ad.

judged not' liable to duties; and it is fortified by the
opinion of' a learned judge in the supreme court of
New-York, upon an analogous question,'
d9Johns.R. 239. PerKENrT,
Ch. J.
This was, an application to the supreme court of the
state of New-York, at August
term, 1812, for the allowance of
;x writ of habeas cbrpua, directed
to John Christie, a lieutenantcolonel in the army of the United
States, 'to bring up the body of
Jeremi lb Ferguson,
founde
uipon an affidavit of his father,
staung that hp was an enl1sted
soldier in the 13th regiment of
infantry in the army of the Uni,
ted Stateq, tlep tinder the command of Christie, and that the
said Jeremiah Ferguson as an
infaut under the age of 24 years,
&c., and that he enlisted without
his father's consent, and was desirous of being released and dis,
pharged. TIje chief jqstice, in
delivering his opinion, stated,
".that the present case being one
of an enlistment under colour of
the authority of the United States,
and by an offi er of that governTent, the federal courts have
complete and perfect jurisdiction
in the case; and there is no need
pf the jurisdiction or interfeTence of the state courts; nor
#oes it appear to me to be fit
that the state courts should be in-

quiring into the abuse of the ex
ercise of the authority of the gea
neral government. Numberless
cases may be supposed of the
abuse of power, by the civil and
military offivoru of the government of the United States1 but
the courts of the United States
have competent authority, to cor,
rect all such obuses, and they are
bound to exercise that aldhority.
The responsibility is with them,
not with us; and wo have no reatoil to doutt or their readiness, as
well as ability, to correct and punish every abuse of power under
that government. The judicial
power of the United States iq
commensurpito with evory caso aris.
ing under the laws of the union;
and the act of congress (1 Laws
of the U. S. 53, 55.) gives to the
federal vourts, exclusively of the
courts of the sevetal states, cognizance of all crimes and offan.
ces, cognisablo under the autho.
rity of the United States." The
other judges concurred in refuling to allow the habcas corpus,
deeming that a question of sound
legal discretion; but reserved
themselves as to the jurisdictipko
of the state courts,

OF THE UNITED STATkES.

5

isil.
Mr. Hunter, contra. 1. It is conceded that the opinion or suspicion of the collector authorizei him to- Socum
V.
detain any vessd4 ostensibly bbund with a cargo to
tayberrr.
of
pleasure
the
until
States,
United
the
of
some port
the president should be known. This is not a replevin for the vessel. As to that, the owners submitted to the suspicion of the collector, and the
pleasure of the president; but as to the cargo,
neither of these officers had, by law, the power of
detaining it. A momentary and unavoidable detention of the cargo, incidental to the seizure of the
vessel, might indeed be deemed a necessary consequence of an undeniable power; but could never
give the seizing officer a right to continue the detention of the cargo after the vessel was securely *detained. takgo, in -the revenue laws; in the law of
prize; and in 'questions of salvage, insurance, and
freight; is contra-distinguished from vessel. The
sistem of the embargo laws was intended to
prevent exportation; and, in order to accomplish
this only, they authorized the detention of the vehicle, without which no exportation could take vlace.
Even the vessel was not forfeited, but detained; and
the cargo was neither forfeited nor detained, but
left in the possession of the owners.to be freely consumed at home. The laws of the United States
having then exerted their energy, and perfoymed
their office, the subsequent proceedings were illegaL
In the case of Crowell v. M'F.don, the action was
frover. Lucrative damages were sought for a conversion proved not to be wrongful. but assknted to
by the party. Here the' action is rep!cvh-h and the.

CASES IN THE SUPRTIjriCOURT

1817.

party only seeks to retain what is unive rsally admit-

to be his property. Incommoda vilantis quam
V.
commoda petentis melio" est causa. 2. The plea to
Maayberry. the jurisdiction of the state court is fatally defective
Slocum

Sted

in not stating another jurisdiction.'
3. But even
supposing the decision of this court must be against
the jurisdiction of the state court, no judgment can
be pronounced upon that basis. The thing in controversy cannot be restored to the plaintiff'in error,
for he never owned or claimed it; and the authority
of the. Paulin'af is sufficient to dissipate the mistaken
notion of a forfeiture to the'United States. No.collision between the state and national judicatures
can, therefore, arise. Even if the state court has
improperly interfered, it is, at the worst, an innocent
officiousness; since that court has determined the
question precisely as the national tribunals would
have done, and has merely anticipated the beneficence they intended. The mischief that the common law writ of prohibition seeks to remedy is the
inconvenience of having the same question dotermined different ways, according to the court in which
the suit is depending. But if it be shown to the
court trying a suggestion in prohibition; that the
question has been, or must be, determined exactly
as the appropriate court' would determine it, its
merely being drawn at aliud examen would not be a
sufficient ground for issuing the writ of prohibie Doer. P4 23. 1 Veeey, 913. Mostyu v. FabrigB. 'Cow;. 17 .
2 Vesey, 237. 3 Aik. 662.

f 7 Cranch, 52.

OF Ti1E UNITED STATES;

tion. No usurpation can be ultimately successful 1817.
against the national jurisdiction. The very clause "''Slocum
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, (sec. 25.) by, which
v.
BIaybcny,
jurisdicthis
that
shows
here,
brought
is
the cause
tion is amply armed for self defence. But this
transaction'does not present any thing for the judicial powers of the United States to act upon. The
case of the Favourite was a quwestion of salvage, depending; as such questions always do, upon personal
merit and propriety of conduct. A severe assertion
even of legal right may, in many instances, amount
to dmrInit. In the case of Mr. SoderstromA the very
words of the 9th section of the Judiciary Act expressly excluded the state courts from jurisdiction.
In that case there was, a personal privilege in the
consul, and an absolute disability in the court. The
dictu of-the chief justice of the supreme court of
.ew-York, in the case of Ferguson, was disclaimed
by the rest of the court, although under the parti.cular circumstances of. the case they declined to
interfere. Unless the state tribunals have a right to
interfiere with the aid of their preventive process,'in
a case where the national jurisdiction has not law,
fully attached. property detained under colour of authority may be dissipated by rapacious profusion,
because a timely replevin could not be interposed.
The ,ttornzey-Genera, in reply. 1. The plea, of
the defendant in the court below- covers both the
vessel and the cargo, and being demurred to, its facts
g 3 B1. Co.

c.7

h I Binn, 138.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
Slocum

V.

Mybe7y,.

are admitted. Both must be detained, where they
are seized cotemporaneously; and to permit a sub.
sequen.t transhipment of the cargo from the vessel
where it was found in dlicto, to another, would be
to defeat the policy of the law. In the case of Otis
v. Watkins,' both vessel and cargo were removed
from Provincetown to Barnstable; yet the conduct
of the collector was held justified. 2. The rule,
that he who pleads to the jurisdiction ought to give
it to some other- court, must be taken with the pro.
per qualifications. Another jurisdiction must be
shown, where it exists, or is Intended to be claimed
over the subject matter of the suit. But here it was
intended only to except to the officious, unlawful
jurisdiction of that court where the officer wa6 impleaded. 3. The plea of the defendant in the court
below ii not an dvowrv, which goes fol a restitutitM
,of the thing in controversy; he merely makes cognizance, acknowledges the taking, but justifies under
the law, and the orders of the collector. Hence the
argument, that a reversal of the judgment below would
imply .a restitution of the cargo to the seizing officer
as his property, is inapplicable. Where, from the
circumstances of the case it was lawful to (ake, and
yet, from intervening events, unlawful to detain, the
defendant cannot be ethtitled to a return? The sei.
zure, in this case, though it looked to no direct forfeiture or even to a trial, yet, being a necessary
incident to a seizure, having ihi view a fofeiture,
i 9 Vrawh, 339.

& Boll. M r. 319. Bull. XN.P. 5

OF THE UNITED STATES.-

it falls within the scope of the 9th section of the
judiciary act, as fairly as the case, positively enumerated; and a contrary determination would efface
from the statute book those preventive means by
which a complexity of litigation is avoided.

ismi
6looum

v.
laybe7.

Mr. Ch. J. MARSHALL delivered the opibionof the Feb.
court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
In considering this case, the first question which
presents itself is, this: Has the constitution, or
any law of the United States, been violated or misconstrued by the court of Rhode-Island in exercising
its jurisdiction in this cause ?
The judiciary act gives to .the federal couirts exblusive cognizance of all seizures made on land or
water. Any intervention of a state authority wliich,
by taking the thing seized out of thd possession of
the officer of the United States, might obstruct the
exercise of this jurisdiction, would unquestionably be
a violation pf the act; and the federal court having
'cognizance of the seizure, hight enforce a re-delivery
of the thing by attachment or other summary process against the parties who should devest such a
postession. The- party supposing himself aggrieved by a seizure cannoti becau'se lie considers it tortious, replevy the property out of the custody of the
seiziafi officer, or of the court having cognizance
of the cause. If the office" has a right, under the
laws of the United States, to seize, for a supposed
forfeiture, the quiestioi, whether that forfeiture has
been actually incurred, belongd xclusiv'ely to the
VOL. 11.

12tb.

CASES IN' THE SUPREME COURT

817,

S
V.

federal courts, and, cannot be drawn to another
forum; and it depends upon the final decree of such
courts whether such seizure is to be deemed rightful
or tortious. If the seizing officer should refuse to
institdte proceedings to ascertain the forfeiture, the
district court may, upon the application of the aggrieved party, compel the officer to proceed to adjudication, or to abandon the seizure. And if tho
oeizure be finally adjudged wrongful, and without
reasonable cause, he may ptoceed, at his election, by
a suit at common law, ori in the admiralty for damages for the illegal act. Yet, even in that case, any
remedy which the law may afford to the party sup.
posipg himself to -be aggrieved, other than such as
wight he obtained in a court of admiralty, could be
prosecuted only in the state court, The common
law tribunals of the United Statesare closed against
ouch applicdtioqs, were the party disposed to make
them. Congress has refused to the courts of the union
the'power of deciding on the conduct of their officers
in the execution of their laws, in suits at common law,
until the case shall have passed through the state
courts, and hale received thelbrm which may. there
be givei it. This, however, beinx an action which
takes the thing itself out of the possession of the
officer, could certainly not be maintained in a stato
court, if, by the act of congress, it was seized for the
purpose. of being, proceeded against in the federal
court.
A -verybrief examination of the act of congress
Vill le sufflcient for the inquiry, whether this cargo
ws s5 izeO.. The movtid gertion Qf the nct,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pleaded by the defendant in the original actlcin, otly
withholds a clearance from a vessel which has cornmitted the ofence described in that section. This
seizure was made under the .11th section, which
enacts, "that the collectors of the customs be, and
they are hereby respectiviely authorized to- detain
any vessel ostensibly b6und with a cargo to some
other port of the United States, whenever, in their
opinion, the intention is to violate or evade any of
the provisiofis of the acts laying an embargo, until
the decision of the president of the United States
be had thereupon."
The' authority given respects the vessel only.
The cargo is in no manner the object of the act.
It is arrested in its course to any other port, by the
detention of the vehicle in which it was to be carried; but no right is given to seize it specifically, or
to detain it if separated from that -ehicle. It remains in custody of the officer, simply because it is
placed in-a vessel which is in his custocly; but no
law forbids it to be taken out of that vessel, if such
be the will of the owner.' The cargoes thus arrested and detained were generally of a perishable nature, and it would have been wanton oppression to
expose them tojloss by unlimited detention, in a case
wheye the owner was-willing to remove all danger
of exportation.
Tis being the true constrdction of the act 'of
congress, the owner.has the same right to his cargo
that he has to any other propcrty,land may exercise
over it every act of ofnership not prohibited by law.
He may, consequently, demand it from tho office

1817.
,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

12
1617.

in whose possession it is, that officer having no legal

Slocum

right towithhold,it from him; and if it be withheld,
he has a consequent right to appealto the laws of

V.

Mayberry. his country for relief.

To what court can this appeal be made? The
common law courts of the United States have no
jurisdiction in the case. They can afford him no
relief. The party might, indeed, institute a suit for
redress in the district court acting as an admiralty
and revenue court; and such court might award
restitution of the peoperty unlawfully detained. But
the act of congress neither expressly, nor by impli..
eation,'forbi.ds the state courts to take cognizance of
suits instituted for property in possession of an
officer of the United States not detained under some
law of the United States; consequently, their jurisdiction remains. Had this action been brought for,
te vessel instead of the cargo, the case would have
been esqentially different. The detention would'
have 'been by virtue of an act of congress; and the
jurisdiction of a state court could not have been
sustained. But the action having been brought for
the cargo, to detain which the law gave no authority, it was triable in the state court.
The same course of reasoning which sustains the
jurisdictiori of the court of Rhode-Island sustains
also its judgment on the plea in bar. The two pleas
contain the same matter; the one conoJudinxr to the
jurisdiction of the c6urt, and the other in bar of the
action. In examining'tfie plea to the iurisdiction, it
has 'been shown that the oficer had no legal right
to detain the property; consequently, his Oilep, was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

no sufficient defence, and the court misconstrued no
act of congress, nor committed any error in sustaining the demurrer.

Judgment affiuned with costs.

GREE.N.LAF v. CooK.
Where a promissory note Was given for the purchase of real properly,
held that-the failure of consideration through defect of title mnustbe
te!, in order to constitute a good defence to an action on the note.
Quwre, Whether, after receiving a deed, the party could avail himself
even, of a total Maiure of consideration?
But where the note is given with full knowledge of the extent of the
incumbr-ince, and the party thus consents to receive the title, its
defect is no legal bar to an action on the note.
Anypartial defect in the title or the deed is not inquirable into by a
court of law in an action on the note; but the party most seek relief in chancery.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States,
for the district of Columbia.
James Greenleaf instituted a suit in that court on
g promissory note executed by the defendant,. who
pleaded the general issue. On the trial, the defendant gave in evidence a deed executed by.
,t4
Francis, and others, by James Greenleaf, their attor-

A3
3617.
''

Greenicaf
V.

