CASES IN-THE' SUPREME COURT
1817.
The San
Pedro.

(JIIS'ANCE COOVaT)

The SAN PZDRo-Valvcrde, Claimant.
Under the judiciary act of the 24th of September, 1789, oh. 20., ant
the act of the 3d of March, 1803, ell. 03., causes of admiralty and
maritimo jurisdiction, or in equity, cahnot be removed, by writ of
error from the circuit court for re-examination in the supreme
court.
The appropriate mode of removing such causes, is by appeat: and the
ies, regulations, and restrictions contained in the 22d and 23d'secuons of the judiciary not, respecting the time within which a writ
of error shall be brought, and in what instances it shall operate as a.
suprsedeas;-the citation to the adverse party, the security to be
given by the plaintiffs in error for prosecuting his suit, and the restrictions upon the appellate court as to reversals in certain onumerated cases, are applicable to appeals under the act of 1803, and
are to be substantially observed; except that where the appeal is
prayed at the same term when the decree or sentence is pronounced,
a citation is not necessary.

ERROP, to the s;tperior court of the Mississijpi

territory,
This was a libel of information filed in that court,
against the schooner San Pedro and cargo, alleging,
1st. That the San Pedro departed, on the 1st February, 1813, from Mobile for the island of Jamaica,
a colony of Great Britain, in violation of-the embargo
act of the 22d December, 1407, pnd the several acts
supplementary thereto; of the non-inteicourso act
of the 1st of March, 1809; ard of the laws of the
United States. 2d. That sundry gobds, wares, and
merchandise were imported in the San Pedro, into

OF. THE UNITED STATES.

the district of Mobile on the first day of Mkay, 1813,
from the p'aid - island of Jamaica, in violation of the
non-intercourse act. 3d. That sundry goods, wares,
and merchandise " were intended to be imported in
the San Pedro, from the, said island of Jamaica, into
the United States, and into the district of Mobile, contrary to the provisions of the non-intercourse act," &c.
The San Pedro was originally a vessel of the
United Statbs, called the Atlas, and the property of
Mr. Philip A. Lay, of New-Orleans; but had given
up her register, and (as alleged) was, transferred to
Mr. Valverde, a Spanish subject, resident at Pensacola. On the 1st of February, 1813, she sailed from
Mobile, with a cargo of cotton and tobacco, for Jamaica, which was disposed of there; and~on the 10th
of April, 1813, she sailed from Jamaica, with a cargo, on her return voyage for the coast of Florida. On
the 23d of April she was captured and brought into
Mobile by an American gun-boat, and on the 29th
of the same month was -liberated by the commander
of the flotilla, and seized by the collector of the port,
ift whose n~me the libel was filed. It was contended
by the libellants that the transfer of the vessel was
collusive and fraudulent, and that she1 together with
the cargo, belonge'd to citizens of the United States.
A claim was interposed on behalf of Mr. Valverde,
and the vessel and cargo were decreed to be restored
in the court below, from which decree the cause was
brought by writ of errorto this court.

133
1817.
The San

Pedro.

The .1ttontey/ Geneial, for the United States, ar- F b.1mth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
S
The San

Pedro.

gued in support of the first count in the libel, that the
non-intercourse act was to be considered as in force
after the declaration of war, being cumulated upon
the law of war as administered in the prize court, by
which all trade and intercourse with the enemy is
prohibited, under the penalty of confiscation. It
therefore became immaterial whether the property
was Spanish, or belonged to citizens of the United
States. If Spanish, it was confiscable as the property of neutrals, trading with a British colony from the
United States, contrary to the non-intercovrse. If
the property of citizens of the United States, it was liable to seizure and conlemnation, being taken in trade
with the public enemy. The general allegution in this
count, of a ')reach of the laws of the United States,
was sufficient to cover the latter offence. Mobile
was, at the time of this transaction, a port in possession of the United States, having been annexed
to their territories by the acts of Congress- of the
14th of May, 1812, and the 12th of February, 1813.
Mr .Harper,contra. 1. The embargo laws had
eeased to exist at the time of this transaction, and
therefore the first count in the libel, alleging a breach
of those laws, cannot be supported. 2. The nonintercourse laws had merged in the act declaring
war. By the law of war, all commercial intercourse
with the enemy is prohibited, and the court has considered the laws, restricling trade, as superseded by
the law of war.
[Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL.

The court has

OF THE UNITED STATES.

never considered the non-intercourse law as merged
in the law of war as to neutrals.]

1817.
The San

Pedro.

.Mr.Harper. 3. But supposing the non-intercourse
laws to be in force, they can only apply in two cases.
First--To British goods put on board with an intention to import the same into the United States. Secondly-To British goods actually imported. The
third count of the libel is iatally defective in alleging,
not that they were put on 6oard with intention to import, &c. but that they were intended to be imported;
and'under the second count there is no proof of the
growth, produce, or manufacture.of the goods. If
a presumption arises of their British origin, from the
circumstance of their being laden in a Britishcolo-"
ny, it is a case of farther-proof, and the court will not
condemn without first allowing the claimants an opportunity to repel that presumption. 4. The act of
Congress of the 12th February, 1813, did not, proprio vigore, make the port and district of Mobile the
territory of the United States. The legal right
ought to have been asserted by actual possession, in
order to consummate the title.a But possession was
not taken until after the sailing of the vessel from
Mobile, although before her return to the .coast of
Florida from Jamaica; and there is no proof that
a See, on this subject, an instructive case in 5 Rob. 97. (The
Fama,) in, which Sir William
Scott determined that the national
character of Louisiana, agreed to

be surrendered by the treaty of
St. Ildefonso, in 1795, by Spain to
France, but not actually transferred, continued as it was under the
ceding country.

rASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT
181].
The San
Pedr-

this change of dominion was known to the parfles
wylen the goods were shipped at Jamaica. 5. The
question, whether the ship and cargo are confiscable
as a droit of admiralty for the offence of trading
with the enemy, depends upon the qu6stion of fact,
whether they are the property of a citizen or a neutral; and it being an admiralty cause, the claimants
are entitled to the privilege of farther proof, if there
be doubt upon the fact. 6. There is a fatal irregularity in form in bringing up the cause by writ of error, which is a common law process, not applicable to
admiral ty or chancery causes, which are to be brought
up by appeal under the judiciary act of the 24th
February, 1789, and the act of the 3d March, 1803.
The .ttorney General,in reply. The laws of nonintercourse were no farther merged in the law of
war, than as concerned captors. If the property be
that of acitizen, it is confiscable as a droit of admiralty under the law of war.' If it be neutral, then
b 8 Granch, 282. The Sal;,.
In that case it was determined,
that the municipal forfeiture, under the non-intercouse act, ofenemy's property, or of the property
of citizens taken in a trade with
the enemy, was absorbed in the
ynore general operation of the law
of wa:, and that the prize act of
the 26th June. 1812, ch. 107, operates as a grant from the United
States, of all property rightfully
captured by commissioned privateers,ws prize of war. Thesame

doctrine had been before sottled
by Sir William Scott, in the case
of the .7elly, (1 Rob. 219; in a

note to the Floop,) where the
court. held that the same course of
decisions, which had established

that the property of a subject taken trading with the enemy ia
forfeited, has decided also that it is

forfeited as prize. The ground of
the forfeiture is, that it is taken
adhering4o the enemy, and horcfore the proprietor is, pro hae vice,

to be considered as an enemy. In

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the non-intercourse act still applies to it, and it must
be confiscated under the seizure by the revenue officers. If the port of Mobile had become, de facto, a
possession of the United States, before the offence of
importation.was committed, it is immaterial wheither
thd party had a previous knowledge of this tranfer of
territory or not; and the fact of the goods coming
from a British port, is conclusive.evidence of their
origin, and ought to exclude farther proof on this
point.

137
1817.
The Sau
Pedro.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON deliverea the opinion of March 1s0.
the court.
This is an admiralty case b-ought into this court
from the superior court of the Mississippi Territo'ry
by writ of error, and a preliminary question has been
made, and is now to be decided, whether this is the
proper process for removing a cause of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction into this cburt for re-examination ? A similai objection has been taken in a number of equity cases standing on the docket, removed
into this court by similar process from the circuit
courts. The questions which these objections have
given rise to, resolve themselves into the two followthe case of the Etrusco, the Ibrds
of appeal had reserved the question, whether the property claime& by a British subject should
:be cpndemned to the crown or the
captors.; butthe illegality of trade
in that case was of adifrerent nafure, thaf being a trade in violaVOL. It,

tion of the charter of the East
India Company. It was finally
determined by the lords in the
Etrusco, that the property should
be condemned, not to the individual captor, but to the king. 4
Rob. 256. The Caroline, iti a
note.
S

138
181?.
The San

Pedro.

CASES IN THE'SUPREME COURT

ing: 1.-Whether the decree or sentence of a circuit
court, in cases of equity and of Admiralty and maritine jurisdiction, can be removed into the.srupremuo
court for re-examination, by writ of error? 2. If
they cannot, then by- what rule are appeals in those
cases to be governed ?
In deciding these questions, our attention is confined to a few sections of the act of the 24th Sep.
timber, 1789, ch. 20., and to the 2d section of the act
of March 3, 1803, ch. 93.
The 22d section of the former of these laws declares, that firom any final judgment or decree in civil
actions arid suits in equity brought in a circuit court
by original process, or removed there from a state
court, or, by appeal from a district court, a writ' of
error may be brought to the supreme court, at any
time within- five years, the citation being signed by a
judge of such circuit court, or by a justice of the su.preme court, and the adverse party having at least
thirty days notice. This section, then, piovides
thatthe judge who signs the citation shall take suf.
ficient security that the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his writ to effect, and answer all damages and
costs, if he fail to do so. The 23d section declares
under what circumstances a writ of error shall operate as a supersedeas.
The act of 1803 declares, that from all final judg.
ments or decrees in a circuit court in cases of equity,of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and prize or
no prize, an appeal shall, he allowed to the supreme
court;, that a transcript of the libel, bill, answers,
depositions, and all other proceedings in tWe cause

OF THE UNITED STAtES.

shall be traifsmitted fo the supreme court, and that
no new evidence shall be admitted on such appeal,

'
The San

except in admiralty and prize causes. The act then

Ptdro.

provides, that such appeals shall be subject to the
same rules, regulations, and restrictions, as are prescribed by law in cases of writs of error, and itrepeals so much of the 19th and 22d sections of the
act of 1789 as comes within the purview of this act.
1.The first question depends upon the meaning
attached by the legisliture to the wordpurview. It is
contended by the plaintiff in error, that it ought to
be confined to slich parts of the 19th and 22d sections as are inconsistent with the provisions of the act
of 1803. If this be the correct internretatir.i of the
term, it is then insisted that there is no incongruity
bet'~een the two remedies, by appeal and writ of error, even in admiralty and equity- cases, and, conseqfiently, that the former remedy is to be considered
as merely cumulative.
But the court does not yield its assent to that interpretatioh. Wherever this term is used, it is manifestly intended to designate the enacting part or body
of.the act, in contradistinction to the other parts of
it, such as the preamble, the saving, and the proviso.
And an attentive cons:.ration of the subiect matter
of the two laws, to which our inquiries are confined,
will lead very strongly to the conclusion, that. congress meant to use the term in this sense. Itis obvious that the 22d section of the act of 1789, wa.b so
intimately connected with the 19th section, so far as
it respected the appellate jurisdiction of the supreme
court, in admiralty and equity cases, that the remedy

1317

140

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
provided by the former ,vould have been, in most
kcases,
inoperative without the aid of the latter. Had
'Tie San
Pearo. the law merely prov'ided the remedy by writ of error in those cases, nothing but the proceedings, together with the sentence or Oecree, would have been
open to the inspection and re-examination o1 the supreme court. But, as in a great majority of those

cases, the correctness or incorrectness 01 the dec-

sion of the inferior court would depend upon the evidence given in the cause, the remedy by writ of error,
without some further legislati've provision for carrying before the appellate court the facts or the evidence, would have been altogether defective and iliusory. We find, accordingly, that the luth section,
provides, that the circuit courts, in cases of equity.
and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, shall
cause the facts on which they found their sentence
or decree fully to appear upon the record, eithor
from the pleadings and decree itself, or-a case agreed
by the parties, or their counsel, or if they disagree,
by a stating of the case by the court. Thus, upon a,
writ of error in equity aid admiralty cases, the supreme court was furnished with the facts upon which
the inferior court decided, though not with the evidence, and might, therefore, correct the errors of
that court, so far as they eyisted in wrong conclu,
sions of law, from the facts stated.
Now the 19th section contains but the single prol.
vision which has been just mentioned, and, conse.
quently, if any part of it be repealed by the act
of 1803, the whole must be; and if the whole, theik
the writ of error provided by'the 22d section in admi

OF THE UNITED STATE5.

ralty and equity cases would be rendered, as before
observed, altogether ineffectual for the purpose for

Is17.
The
which it was intended in every case where the San Pc&ro.
error complained of in the sentence, or decree,

existed in wrong conclusions from the evidence or
the facts.
Even the provisions of the 29th section were, in the
view of congress, defective, and must appear so to
every person conversant with the practice of courts
proceeding according to the forms of the civil law.
The error of the inferior court may frequently consist, not in wrong- conclusions of law from the facts,
but in wrong conclusions of fact from the evidence.
We are warranted in saying that this defect in the
former law was perceived by the legislature, and
was intended to be remedied by the provision in
the act of 1803, that the evidence (instead of the
facts) should accompany the record into the appellate court.
Upon the whole, it is manifest that the subject of
the two laws is the same, namely, the appellate
jurisdiction of the supreme court, and the manner
of exercising it. The manner of exercising it, as
prescribed by the act of 1789, is essentially changed
by the act of 1803, and is consequently repealed by
it because it is within the purview of the latter law,
being provided for in a different way. By this construction, the appellate jurisdiction of the supreme
court is made to conform with the ancient and wellestablished principles of judicial proceedings. The
writ of error, in cases of common law, remains in
force, and submits to the revision of the supreme

142
1817.

"The
San Pe,

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT

court only the law. The remedy by appeal is confined to admiralty and equity cases, and brings before
o. the supreme coui't the facts as well as the law.
2. The second question is attended with much
less difficulty. The act of 1803, after requiring
that the libel, bill, answers, depositions, and all other
proceedings in the cause, shall'be transmitted to the
supreme court, and that no new evidence shall be
admitted on such appeal except in admiralty and.
prize causes, provides that such appeals shall be subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions, as
prescribed in cases of writs of error. These rules,
regulations, and restrictions, are contained ifi the
22d and 23d sections of the act of 1789, and respect the time within which a writ of error may be
brought, and in what instances it shall operate as
a supersedeas: the citation to the adverse party;
the security to be given by- the plaintiff in error for
prosecuting his suit; and the restrictions upon the
-appellate court as to reversals in certain enumerated cases. All these are, in the opinion of a majority
of the court, applicable to appeals under the act of
1803, and are to be substantially observed, except
that where tne appeal is prayed at the same term
when the decrte or sentence is made, a citation is
not necessary. (Reily v. Lamar and others, 2
Cranch, 349.) It follows that an appeal, in admiralty, equity, and prize causes, mpay be taken at any
time within five years from the final decree, or sentence being pronounced, subject to the saving contained in the 22d sect. of the act of 1789, which is
one of the points that was discussed at the bar,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This opinion is consistent with the case of the United States v. Hooe, (3 Cranch, 73.) although from the
report of that case it would seem to be otherwise.
The record has been examined, from which it appears that that case came up upon an appeal, and
not upon a writ of error.
The writ of error, in this case, must therefore be
dismissed.a
a The cause was afterwards re- continued for farther proof, as if
entered, by consent ofparies, and it had been removed by appeal.

The ARIADNE.--Goddard et al. Claimants.
The sailing under the enemy's license constitutes, of itsel4 anact of
illegality, which subjects the property to confiscation, without'regard to the object of the voyage or the port of destination.

APP.AL from the circuit court for the district of

Pennsylvania.
This vessel, belonging to citizens of the United
States, and laden with a cargo of flour also.belonging to citizens of the same, was captured on the
15th day of October, 1812, on a voyage from Alexandria to Cadiz, with a license or passport of protection -from the British admiral, -Sawyer. The
vessel and cargo were restored in the district court;

1817.

The
Ario.

