290

CAS9S IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
11organ'e'

heirs
V°
AMorgan.

(CHAnER.)
MORGAN'S

heirs v. MORGAN di. al.

The jurisdiction of the circuit court, having once vested botivcor
citizens of different states, cannot be deyestcd by q change of domicil of one of the parties, tnd hlt removal into the same state with
the adverse party, pendente life.
In a suit demandir.g the specific performance of a contract, by conveying lands in the state of Ohio, stipulated to he conveyed as the
consideration for other lands sold in the state of Kentucky, or, in
lieu thereof, requiring indemnification by the payment of money;
, was held that all the co-heirs of the vendor, doccased, ought to
be made parties to tbe bill, and tbftt the death of one of the heirq
ought to be proved, in order to excuse his omission as a party to
the bill.
It is a universal rule of equity, that he who asks for a specific performance must be in a condition to perform himself.
Therefore, the vendor, being unable to make a title free from incumbrances, to the lands sold in Kentucky, was held not (o ho entitled
to a decree for a specific performance.

from the circuit court of Kentucky.
This was a bill in equity, filed by the complainants
in the court below, (who are the defepdants here,)
founded on a bond, conditioned for the conveyance
of 5,000 acres of land, to be situated within certain
lounds of the state of" Ohio; for which land a
conveyance'was prayed, if tbc defendant was possessed of,- or had the means of acquiring, the title
thereto, and, in the event of such inability on the
part of the defendant to comply specifically with his
.ptipulation, a compensation in damages in lieu thergAPPEAL

OP THE UNITED STATES.

df; and, in this latter case, that a tract of 1,000
1817.
acres of land; situate in the county of Bourbon, in "'"'
the state of Kentucky, which formed the consider- beirs
ation on the part of the complainants, for the 5,000 Morgan
acies of Ohio land, and for the conveyance of which
the ancestor of the complainants had, contemporaneously with the first bond, executed his own obligation to the defendarit, should be sold for the purpose of completing such indemnity, upon the suggestion of the insolvency of the defendant; on the
ground of the equitable lien existing on the part of
the complainants in that land, for the purpose of
such indemnity. The bill further alleged, that the
ancestor of the complainants, discovering the inability or unwillingness of the defendant to fulfil the
stipulations of his said bond, for the purpose of his
-ultimate indemnity against the consequences of such
failure, had instituted an ejectment in the Fayette
circuit court, against James Patton, to \whom tho
defendant had many years before sold, and invested
with the possession of the said 1,000 acre tract,
against whom judgment had been rendered in his
favour. That subsequent to such judgment, an adjustment of the accounts of improvements, r nts,
and profits, had been effected between them, which
was shown by an agreement in writing, in which it
was stipulated that .the said Patton should pay to
the ancestor of the complainants the sum of 30 dollars, in full for rents, and should yield up the possession of the premises on a day therein named.
But that in violation of the spirit and true intention
of this agreement of compromise, he, the said Pat-

292

CASES IN THE SUPREME COQURT

m8r7. ton, had' fraudulently prosecuted a writ of error to
M"7
organ's the said judgment in ejectment; and having procured, in the appellate court, a reversal of thQ'said
heir.
V.
Iorgan. judgment, had secretly, illegally, and by combination with Chilton Allen, and others, procured a sales
under colour of an execution for the costs, on the reversal aforesaid, for the sum of 13 dollars 72J cents,
and sacrificed 66611 acres of the said tract, worth
many thousand dollars, for that trivial sum; the said
Allen having become the purchaser, and subsequently conveyed 500 acres thereof to Patton, and
the rusidue to James Scoby, all of whom are made
parties to the bill. The complainants, for the purpose of giving legal eflect to the lien given them by
equity, on this tract of 1,000 acres of lafid for the
satisfaction of their demand, pray that the sale, and
all other proceedings on the execution for costs, be.
vacated on account of the fraud and illegality by
which ihe same was effected.
Morgan, the defendant, in his answer, admits, that
he was unable to comply with. the contract to con.
vey the lands N. W. of the Ohio; alleges fraud in
the original contfact, &c.
Allen, Patton, and Scoby, deny fraud, &o., and
allege a good title under the sheriff's deed.
On the hearing, the court, at their November
term, in 1814, dismissed the bill as to Allen-, Patton,
and S coby; but decided that the defebdat, Morgan, was responsible for the value of the lands in
Ohio, and directed a jury to ascertain its value. At
the May term, 1815, a jury estimated the Ohio laud
to be worth, on the 1 th day of December, 1795,

OF THE UNITED STATES,

293

1817.
5,000 dollars; on the l1th of December, 1796,
.6,250 dollars; and at that date, 20,000 dollars. At Morga's'
heirs
the November term, .1815, a motion for a re-hearing
IV.
having been overruled, a decree was rendered, on lMorg=a
behalf of the complainants, for b,250 dollars, with
interest from the 11th December, 1796. and costs
against the d&fendant, Morgan, and execution ordered against his estate. Commissioners were also appointed to sell the land, if the money could not be
made by execution, and the commissioners directed
to convey to the purchaser. The complainants
were also directed to join in the conveyance, and to
stipulate to pay, at the rate of 20 shillings per acre,
for any of the land that might be lost by a superior title.
By a copy of the will of C. Morgan, of Pennsylvania, exhibited in the cause, it appeared that the'
testator had a son, William Morgan, who was one
of his heirs, and who is no party in the cause. It also
appeared that there are two other executors not
named in the bill.
During the progress of the suit, Daniel Morgan,
one of the'complainants, removed to, and became .
citizen of, Kentucky. . This was shown to the court,
and a motion made to dismiss the suit for-tbe want
of jurisdiction, and overruled.

Mr. .1. B. Har&dn and Mr. Jones, for the appel- ratrch8st
lants. 1. The voluntary change of citizenship by
one of the complainants, pendente lite, is a waiver of
the privilege of maintaining a suit in the circuit court,
which exists only between citizens of dJ'erent states,
and ceases by the parties becoming citizens of the

CASES I

294

THE SUPREIIE cd0URT

same state. The general rule is, that a court, onto
jurisdiction of a cause, will keep it; but that
ll:organ's
relates to the subject matter of the suit: here it is a
heirs
personal privilege, which the party waives by remoM .
ving into the same state with his adversary; and in
this case, into any other state; because all the parties on one side must be citizens of one state, and
all the parties on the Other, citizens of another
state. 2. There is a defect of proper parties to
the bill. 3. This is, substantially, a bill by a ven,
dor to compel the vendee to complete the contracti
and ought not to be sustained; because the contract
was unequal, and the vendor had himself disaffirmad
it. Where there is inequality in the contract, a court
of equity will not decree a specific erformance even
in a case where damages might be recoverdd at law,
but will remit the parties to their legal remedy. 4.
In order to obtain a specific performance, the vendorf
must show that he has a good title to give;, which
is not the case here, the land being incumbered by
the judicial sale, which gives at least a presuitptive
title against the vendor's claim. 5. The dectee is
inequitable in its details. If damages ought to have
been decreed, the estimated value Of the land stated
in the written contract was. the true measurer of
damages, and not the sum stated in the decree. The
order for the sale of the land under incumbrances was
improper; as some of the complainants were infants,
sonhefemes coverts, and one of the heirs not *made a
party to the suit; so that no legal title could be acquired by a purchaser, without time, trouble, and expense..
Shaving

OF THE UNITED STATES.

295

1817.
Mr. Talbot, contra. 1. The removal of one of the
parties caninot oust the court-of its jurisdiction. The Morpu's
h
citizens of different states have not an individual, peculiar, personal privilege; but it is a classification of 1 orp
persons, who, under the constitution, have a right to
sue in the national courts. 2. As it regards.the primary object of the suit, the title to the Ohio land, the
bill is that of daily and familiar use; that with a
doubI4 aspect, requiring of the chancellor a specific
execution of the stipulation for conveyance, in pursuance of the defendant's bond, or in the event of inability, (in relation to which the complainant is ignorant,) upon the ascertainment of such entire inability,
compensation equivalent to the value of the land in
lieu thereof The enforcement of the equitable lien,
held by the complainants on the Bourbon land, the
possession of which (but not the title) their ancestor
had transferred to the defendant, Morgan, is the peculiar and exclusive province of the equitable tribunal; and especially in Kentucky, by the laws of
which, the equitable claims to real estate are not
made subject to execution. The.equity of the lien
on behalf of the complainants is irresistible, on the
supposition of the.inability of the defendant, Morgan,
to convey the Ohio land; the Bourbon land constituting the entire consideration for the stipulation of
the defendant for the conveyance of the other; and
the ancestor of the complainants having taken no
personal security, but retained the legal title as his
only guarantee for the faithful execution of the stipulation o.n the part of the defendant, Morgan; and
the embarrassments in which the title and possession

296
1817.
Morgan's

heirs
Worgan-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of the Bourbon land had become involved by tlhe
acts of the defendant, Morgan, and those claiming
through and under him, in relation to the fraudulent
and illegal sale of that land, under colour of the
execution, forms another distinct and unquestionable
ground for the interposition of equity jurisdiction;
the tribunal of the chancellor alone possessing competent powers by a single siuit (avdiding multiplicity
of hartasing litigation) to embrace all these various
subjects of controversy, and by its decree, co-extensive with the matters in contest, to do fihial and
complete justice to all the parties. 3. The subsequent, fraudulent, or illegal sale and purchase of the
Bourbon land, effected through thd agency of Patton
claiming and holding possession of the same, under
the defendant; a sale effected not only in violation
of the solemn stipulations between said Patton and
the ancestor of the complainants, by the terms of
which the proceedings under the ejectment and all
matters in relation thereto, were finally compromised
between them; but, also, in defiance of the various
provisions of the acts of the Kentucky legislature,
authorizing the sales of real estate under execution,
ought not to affect or prejudice the right of the complainants to recover of the defendant, Morgan, an
indemnity for his failure to convey the Bourbon' land.
4. The sale of the Bourbon land under colour of
the executioni br costs was irregular and illegal in
the following.particulars: 1st. That the act of the
Kentucky legislature, under which this sale is attempted to be justified, only authorizes the sale of
real estate .on execution for .dbt or damages, and

QP THE UNITED STATES.

notexecutionsforcostsalone, as was that from the cdurt
of appeals, inthe present ease. 2d. The act requires
that the sale to be effected under such executions
shall be advertised on the door of thecourt-house, on
-a court day; thereby clearly intending tha:t such advertisement should be placed in that situation, in
time to afford the requisite information to all persons
attending court, for the entire day; which was not
done on this occasion, the advertisement not having
been put up until the latter part, or afternoon of the
day. 3d. The said sale was not advertised at the
court-house, and some mdeting-house door, and at the
othdr most public places, within the county, as required
by the said act; in consequence of which omissions to
comply with those important requisitions of the la'w,
the land of the complainants, worth several thousand
,dollars, was sacrificed for a paltry and insignificant
SUm.

Mr Chief Justice

MARSHALL

PP

1817.
Mforgatee
heirs

Brora.

delivered the opinion nra

of tie court.
In this case two questions respecting the formal
proceedings of the circuit court have been made by
the counsel for the appellant.
The first is, that one of the complainants in the
original suit having settled in the state or Kentucky
after this bill was filed, that court could no longer
entertain jurisdiction of the cause, and ought to have
dismissed the bill.
. We are all of opinion that the jurisdiction
having
once vested, was not devested by the change of residence of either of the parties.
Vor. IW

29't

Iltj,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME OOIMT
1817,
1Mlorgan's
beirs
V.

2d. It appearing from the wil that at its date tlhi
testator had a child who is not.a party in this suit,
the bill ought to bb dismissedfor the decree Qpvned
and the cause sent back to make proper parties.
It is unquestionab'e that'All the cohirs of the do.
ceased ought to be parties to this suit, either plgintiff or defendant; and *aspecific performance ouglt
not to be decreed until they shall be all before the
p0urt. It would, perhaps, be not enough to say
that the child named in the will, and not made a
party, is most probably dead. In such a case as
this, the fact of his death ought to be proved, not
presumed.' But as the opinion of the cout on thdi
merits of the cause will render it unnecessary to dopide this question, it is thought best for the interest
of all parties to proceed to the consideration of
anoth&' point which will finally terminate the conb Tbe general rule, requiring
.il persons interested tp be mdo
parties to the suit, is confined to
.Yartie to the interest ipvoled
in the issue, and who must, nece sarily, be IfFected by the decree.
4t is a rule qf conyenience mPerely,
Vnd may be dispensed with when
it bepomnes extrpmely difficult or
Inconvenient. Wendell v. Van
Renselaer. 1 Johns. 7h. Rep.
349. And the want of proper par.tiel is not 4 gaool plea, if the bill
4ugets that such partieg qrP out
pf the jurisdiction of the court.
f.iliga Y.
ailledge
0 vx. 3.
trn¢/:

ley, I Ves. 305.

Cmwslad v. Co-

Icy, I Jern. 140.

In such a case,

if the property in litigation be
within tlhe control of the party
who is brought beforo the tourt,
it may be acted upon by the court.
Smith v. Ilibernia Company, I
Schoales4, Lefroy, 240. Williams
v. Whinyatcs, 2 Brown's Ch. Car.
399. No person need le made a
party, against whpm if brought tq
a lioaring, the plaintiff cannot
have a decreoe; as a residuary legatee, and a bankrupt in a suit
brought against the assignees.
Do Golls v. Wyard, in note I to
Traver4 T"Buck- 3~r~
.
WeJ1ilt. S3I.

OF THE UNITED STATES

fest, so far as it is to be determined in a court of
equity.
This is a suit for the specific performance of a
contract, either by conveying lands in the state of
Ohio, stipulated to be conveyed as the consideration
.for land sold in the' state of Kentucky; or, if that
be out of the power of the obligor, by paying money
in lieu thereof Although the contract is not contained in one instrument, but consists of two bonds,
the one given by Charles Morgan of Pennsylvaniaj
binding himself to convey the land in Kentucky, and
the other by Charles Morgan of Kentucky, binding
himself to convey the land in Ohio; yet, it is essentially one contract; and it stifficiently appears that
fyie land in Ohio lorms the consideration for the
lands in Kent=ky. It is then a case standing on
those general principles which _govern all applications to a court of equity, to decree, the specific performance of a contract.
In cases of this charatcter, no rule is more universal
than that he who asks for a specific performance must
be in a conditiori to perform himself. This point was
fully considered in the cases -decided in this court
between Hepburn and Dundas, and Colin Auld as the
agent of Dunlop & Co., and the principles laid down
iithose cases are believed to be entirely correct."
Let us inquire, then, whether.the plaintiffs in the
court below have brought themselves within this rule.
It is incumbent on them to show an ability to convey to the defendant in that court a clear estate in
a Vide ante, Vch1 .a. 179.

2_99
1917.
heirs
Lior-=.

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Morgan's

heirs
V.
Morgan.

fee simple in the tract of one thousand acres lying
in Kentucky, which was sold to him by their ancestors. Have they done so?
The co-heirs are, some of them,femes covert, and
some of them infants. The decree against the defendant for tie value of the Ohio land is not dependent on their making him a copveyance of the land
in Kentucky, but is absolute. He is to pay the consideration money, and then obtain a title if he can.
It is true that in the event of selling the Kentucky
land, which is to take place after exhausting the
personal estate ot Charles Morgan of Kentucky, the
complainants are directed to join in the conveyance;
but this contingency may not happen; and if it
should, a decree that femes covert and infants who.
are plaintiffs, and against whom no cross bill has
been filed, should convey, might not secure a conveyance.
This might be corrected by sending the case back
with instructions to new model the decree so as to
adapt it to the situation of the parties, did it appear
to the court that the appellees are able to make such
a title as. the appellant ought to receive.
But the appellees appear to the court to be incapable of making an unincumbered title to the land
sold by their ancestor. Six hundred and sixty-six
acres have been sold under an execution, and conveyed by the officer making the sale. The terretenants
have been brought before the court. The bill, as
to them, has been dismissed, and from the decree of
dismission there has been no appeal. Can this

Of THE UNITED STATES.
wi1.
.court close its eyes on their title, or declare it invalid ?
heirs
It has been said that the sale is fraudulent, irreV.
gular, and illegal. But the court empowered to ex- Morgan
amine these allegations has decided against them,
and from its decree no appeal has been taken. The
incumbrance is an incumbrance in fact, and its legality can be inquired into by this court only in a suit
to which the persons claiming the title are parties.
It might be urged, that as the appellant sold to,
Patton, and Patton holds also under the sheriff's
sale, he is not now at liberty to consider Patton's
title as an incumbrance on the land.
This argument would be entitled to great consideration was it applicable to the whole land sold by
the sheriff. But it is inapplicable to one hundred
and sixty-six acres, part of the tract which has never
been sold by the appellant.
If the titles acquired under the sheriff's sale be
such as would be annulled in a court of law or equity, (concerning which this court gives no opinion,) it
was incumbent on the plaintiffs to annul them before
they obtained a decree for a specific performance.
Other objections have been made to the decree of
the circuit court. It has been said that the contract
was in its origin unequal, and that the ancestor of
the appellees had in his life time, by his conduct, dis,affirmed the contract. It is deemed unnecessary to
examine these objections, becaLse the court is of
opinion that the inability of the appellees to make

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181.
*organ's

heirs
V.

-Voran.

such a title to the land at this time as the appelant,
ought to accept., deprives them of the right to do.
mand a specific performance. Belther party carr at
prbsent claim the aid of this court, but ought to ba
left to pursue their legal remedies.
Decree reversed, and bill dismissed.
d There can be no doubt that drawn from the 4th law of the Code,
the origin of the doctrine of the de act. vend. et empt., by stating
English court of chancery, as to that this lats does indeed give to
th6 specific performance of agree- the. vendee the action in id quod
ments, is to he traced to the Ro- interest, against the vendor wilo
man law; although the commen- refuses to deliver possession of the
tators on that' law are divided in thing sold; but that, it does not
opinion as to whether it would confine his remedy to this actiott
compel the actual delivery of the alone. He cites Paulus,Sent. 1.
thing sold, or whether, in case of 13. 4. as a precise authority that
refusal, on the part of the vendor, the vendor may be compelled to
his obligation resolves itself into deliver the thing specifically, pothe piayment of pecuniary dama- test coi ut tradat; but as it mny,
ges. Those civilians who are of not always be convenient or prac.
the latter opinion, ground them- ticpblo for the vendee to cause
selves, 1st. On the Code de act. himself to be put in Imssessloit
vend. el empi. L. 4. tit. 49., § 4. mnmu militari, he is, by this lawr.
which sulbects the vendor to permitted to resort to his nalioll
damages ior refusing to 'deliver in id quod interest, Ile has the
possession of the thing sold. 2d. choice of the tworemedies. As tel
On the maxim of law that neno the argument drawn front thtt
potest cogi pracist ad factum;' maxim, that nemo purest cogs ad
from whence they conclude that factum, and that those contract
nema potest cogi ad traditionem. which consist 1r the obligation tt.
The contrary opinion is supported, do a certain thing, resolve them4
.mong others, by Pothier, who selves in id quod interest actoril,
states it to be conformable to the Pothier answers. that tis mitxim
practice on the European conti- is inapplicable, except where the
.nent to enforce aspeciflo perform- act to be done is i mere neronal'
once of the contract of sale. le act of the debtor, tnerumfactuhl,
answers th. abova 'objections ai where a person contracts W0'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ebpy a manuscript, or to exca.
vate a ditch, in which case, if
the agreement be not performed,
the oblifaton necessarily resolves
itself into pecuniary damages.
But that the act of delivering paession of the thing sold, is not
nmrum fectum, wd magis ad dafio/m acedsi:and that the debtor
i2ay be compelled to perform it
specifically, De Venie, No. 68.
This principle he extends even
to personal property; but in the
practice of the English court
of chancery agreements respecting chattels are not, in general,
enforced, as has been before noticed.
dte, Vol. f. p. 154.,
note .(v.) So, also, that court refused to decree a specific performance of a covenant to make gooda
Srar4lpi. Sholefield v. Whitehead,2 ve,7. 17.*And to refer.a
controversy to arbitration. Street
v. Itigby, 6 Ves. 818.
These
last cases fall within the distinclion stated by Pothier of a mere
personqal act, the obligation of
whichin caseof non-performance,
resolves itself into pecuniary de
nages ;to recover which the party
viust resort to his action at law.
3utIAxd Hardwiclxe held, contraxy to the principle of this distiuctionin the case of the Cityof LouZonv. Nash, 3 Jtk. 512., that a covennat to build or rcbuild might be
specificaly enforced, but not a ca.vepan to. repair. And the same
easeis mentioned as within the jn,
M of the court of chancery

in the year bok of 8 F. 4. 4. b.,

1817.

one of the. earliest recognitions of
the equitable powers of the court,
But the modem authoritic* seem
tolean againstthisdoctrine. Lu-

Morgan'a
heils

cas v. Commerford, 3 Brotn's
CA. Cos. 167. S. C. I 'es. jun.
236. Mosely v. Virgin, 3 Yes.
T84. Flint v. Brandon, 8 Pei,
104. Errington v. Aynesley, 2
Browt's Ch. Cas. 343.
Although the vendee is not
obliged to take a detective title,
yet, if there be a mistake or misrqpresentation ira to the quantity or
quality of the property sold, or of
the estate of the vendor therein,
the vendee may, if he elects so to
do, have the differenco deducted
from -the purchase money by
way of comp satimn abd a speci
fic performance. as to the- rest.
There is esettleddistinction, whep
a vendor conies into a court of
equitT to compel the vendee to a
performance; and when a yendee
4eeks to compel a vendor to perfbrm. In the 'rst case, if the
vendor is unable to make out a
title as topart of the subject tatter othe contract, which was the
principal object 9 f tte purchlimp

equity will not'oompel the vendee
to perform the c ntract pro tana.
-In the secon case, the vendee
Piy, if he chooses, take the part
to which a title can be made
Waters v. Travis, 9 Johns. Rep
465. Dilligan v. Cooke$16 per
I. Halsey v. Gran 13 Y's 7.
Mortlocke v. BuJIer. la Yu& 31.

V.

rforgan.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Morgan's
heirs
V.

Morgan.

Paton v. Rogers, I Ves. 4- Bea. "tho farm, was 54 cents a year'l
353. But where the particular the existence of the quit-rent beor memorandum described the estate as containing, by estination,
so nany acres, "be the same more
the vendee was held not
or less,"
to be entitled to an abatement
in the price for a deficiency in the
quantity of acres sold. Winch
v. Winchester, 1 Ves. 4-Beat.
375. The court of chancery, in
decreeing a specific execution of
agreements, governs itself by a
moral certainty, for it is impossible in the nature of things there
should be a mathematical certainty of a good title. Therefore, it
vas held in England that a re'ervation in the grant of an estate by
the crown of royal mines within
the premises was not such a blemish in the title as would excuse
the vendee from taking it; because it seems the crown had no
power togrant a license to any
person to come upon a subject's
estate and search for such mines;
and even if it had the power, it
was extremely improlable that it

would ever be exercised.

Lyd-

20. So,
dal v' Weston, 2 .Atk.
also, in this country, where A. contracted to convey 16 B., "by a
good and valid conveyance in
law," a farm, which was originalTy parcel of a larie tract ofground
granted by the proprietor of a
manor to the ancestor of A., in
fbe, "yielding and paying to the
arantor, his heirs and assigns, the
yearly rent of ten shillings," the
proportion at which quit rent, on

ingknown to B. at the time ofthe
contract, it was held that the existence of such an incumbrance,.
(if it were any,) was no objection
to a decree fern specific performance of the contract. Ten Brock
v. Livingston, I Johno. Char
R. 357.
In general, the vendormay compel a specific performance, if he
can make a good title at the time
ofe the decree, although he had
not a good title when the land
ought to have been conveyed according to the terms of the contract. Langford v. Pitt, 2 Pere
Will. 630. Mortlocko v. Buller,
10 PV's.315. Coffin v. Cooper,
14 Fes. 205. Hepburn v. Auld,
5 Cranch, 262. Hepburn et. at,
v. Dunlop et. at. 4nte, Vol. 1. p.
179. Where, after bill, answer,
and replication, no farther steps
were taken in the cause for tipwards of twenty years; this was
held as not of itself a reason for
refusing a specific performance,
there being acquiescence on both
sides. Cain v. Allen, 2 Dotw. 289.
And where an agreement for the
sale of lands was suffered to remain unexecuted for fourteen
years, the vendee having taken,
and continued to hold, possession;
the court, under the peculiar facts
of the case, decreed a specifir
performance of the contract.Waters v. Travis, 9 Johns. R.
466. But, as a general rule, the
court will not suffer a party, at

OF THE UNITED STATES.
the distance of years, to come to
the court and say that he is ready
to make a good title, and demand
a specific performance. Jenkins
v. Hiles, 6 Ves. 646. Wynn v.
Morgan, 7 Ves. 205. And the
parties may make time of the essence of the agreement, so that
if there be a default at the day,
without any just excuse, and without any waiver afterwards, the
court will not interfere to help
the party in default. Benedict v
Lynch, 1 Johns. Char. Rep. 370.
The court of chancery will not,
except under very particular circumstances, upon a bill for the
npecific performance of a contract, if the party be not entitled
to a specific performance, direct
an issue of quantum damnificatus,
or a reference to the master to ascertain the damages. The plaintiff, if he chooses that remedy,
must resort to law, it not being
like the case of a defect of title
as to part, or of quality, or quantity, where a specific performance
may be decreed as to tP much a2

Vqt. Is.

the vendor is able to perform, and

1817.

a compenration to the vendee for
the residue. Todd v. Gee, 17 Morgan's
heirs
Ver. 273. But where the nefenV/.
MIorga.,
dant has put it out of his power
to perform the contract, the hill
will be retained, and it will bo
referred to the master to assess
Denton
the plaintiff's damages.
v. Stewart, 1 Fonb. 38, Note y.,
and 165, Note 6., and 1 Ves. 39.
17 res. 276, Note 6. Greenaway v. Adams, 12 Ves. 395. And
where a specific performance was
refused, because the contract was
within the statute of frauds, yet
the plaintiff having sustained an
injury for which he was entitled
to compensation, and for which
lie had no remedy, or" at best a
doubtful and inadequate remedy
at law, the court retained the bill
and awarded ab Issue of quantum
damntcafus to assess the dardages sustained by the plaintiff by
the acts of the defendants. ]Phil.
lips v. Thompson et at.,1 Johno.

Ghha. Rep. 131.

