278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

isi8:

the descent is cast, the right of the party becomes
as complete as it can afterwards be made. The
The Geoo. French subject who acquired lands
by descent the
day before its expiration, has precisely the same
rights under it as he who acquired them the day after its formation. He is seised of the same estate,
and has precisely the same power during life 'to dis2
pose of it.. This limitation of the compact between
the two nations, would act upon, and change all its
stipulations, if it 'could affect this case. But the
court is of opinion, that the treaty hld its full effect
the instant a right was acquired under it; that it had
nothing further to perform; and that its expiration
or continuance afterwards was unimportant.
Judgment affirmed.

(Pazr.)
The GEoroGE.
A question of collusive capture. The capture pronounced to be colltL
siVe, and the property condemned to the United States.

THIs is the same cause which is reported in the
first volume of these Reports, p. 408, and which was
ordered to farther proof upon the points there
stated.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The cause was argued by Mr. Webster and Mr.

279
1817.

G. Sullivan, for the captors, and by the Altorny- The George.
Genera4 for the United States.
Dlmvh 6th.

Mr. Justice JoHxsoN delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is one of those cases which too often occur in
courts exercising admiralty jurisdiction, in which the,
court is left to decide between the most positive testimony on the one band, and the most obstinate circumstances on the other.
The privateer Fly had captured the schooner
George, and carried her into the province of Maine.
But various circumstances having excited a suspicion
that the capture was collusive, a claim was filed* in
behalf of the United States, and she was adjudged
to the government, in opposition to the right set up
by the captor.
In all the courts through which this case has passed, the most ample opportunities have been given
for the production of testimony. But, unfortunately,
this indulgence has only served to thicken the difficulties of the case.
We have now before us the most positive depositions of the supercargo and the shippers of the
George, (men whose veractity stands unimpeached,)
denying, in every point, the collusion, and contradicting, in almost every material point, the evidence
upon which the adjudications took place in the
courts below. On the other hand, the characters
of Thomas and Rodick, who swear to positive conr
fessions oar the subject of the fraud. are. amply sup,

!1i. isth,

280
18r7.
The George

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ported by the most respectable testimony, whilst the
veracity of Wasgate and Stanwood, who testify to
the same point, stands wholly unimpeached.
It is paintul to a court ever to express an opinion
that results in an imputation of" wilful perjury, and,
as muchas it is possible in this case, we will put out
of view the clashing testimony' of individuals; and
consider the case upon those facts concerning the
truth of which the evidence leaves no doubt.
It is a notorious fact, and is expressly and repeatedly sworn to in this case, that during the restrictive
system and the late war, English manufactures, in
immense quantities,'were accumulated in the small
ports on the west coast of Nova Scotia, and it is a
melancholy truLh, which this court has had but too
much cause to know, that many unptincipled individuals were actively engaged in introducing those
goods into the United States, under innumerable artifices, and to an immense amount. The protection
of the British government was openly given to this
intercourse, and there were found but too many in
our Country who countenanced and encouraged it.
Hence this illicit intercourse was actively carkied on,
and naturally casts a suspicion on such shipments
made in that quarter. On the other hand, although
an effort has been made to show, that a trade in the
same articles was carried on between those provinces and the Havanna, but one instance can be shown
of such a shipment. All the witnesses agree, that
the exports from St. Johns to the Havanna consisted of fish and lumber. Indeed, from the.course of
trade at that time, it is notorious that the Havanna

OF THE UNITED STATES.

as well as other Spanish ports to the southward, were
crowded with British manufacures, for the same unprincipled trade carried on at Amelia Island. The
-shipment, then, in the first instance, is a suspicious
one, and leads to the opinion that the dry goods were
intended for tho- United States, whilst the fish and
lumber were to be used only as the cover under
which they were to be introduced. But this reasoning may be consistent with the idea of a destination
to any port of the United States, as -well as the
ports in thrt vicinity with which this privateer appears to have been connected. Let us, then, examine if the George was equipped for a voyage of
any duration. And here the evidence is irresistible
to show that 'he was not. She had no dunnage,,or
platform, for the purpose of preserving the goods
from damage by water, and nothing was stowed or
packed in such a manner as to indicate preparation
for a protracted voyage, Her sails and rigging were
old, worn, and deficient in q_uantity, and her mainsaif too large both for mast and boom. Her wood,
and water, and provisions very scanty; and her
crew, before the mast, not more than one half of what
were necessary for a long and a winter's voyage.
Add to this, that her captain is proved to have been
a very young man, scarcely twenty-one years of age,
altogether unknown to the shippers, and engaged
only four days before the vessel's sailing. It cannot
be believed that so valuable a cargo could have been
destined for so long a voyage with such defective
equipments; no court, upon such evidence, would
VOL. It.

7N n

281
1817.
TheGeorge.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

282
1817.

have hesitated to avoid a policy on either vessel or

caro.
The Geo:rge-, cago

We, therefore, think, that
her real destination

must have been to some port in the vicinity of
at which her voyage commenced. How, then,
the cargo to be introduced?
Here I regret that it is necessary to notice a
of the testimony of Gregory Vanhorne, which

that
was
part
cer-

tainly casts a shade upon all the rest of his testimo-

ny. The George, it appears, had actually sailed
under convoy of the Beaver as far as Etang Harbour. There the vessel lay in a secure port, under
the protection of the Martin sloop of war, and at a
place occasionally assigned as a place of rendezvous
to vessels that were to sail under convoy. Yet Van.
home swears that lie heard thecommander of the
Martin expressly order the captain of the George
to depairt for the place where she was captured, an
open road, without protection, only fifteen miles from
Etang Harbour, find there to wait the indefinite ar.
rival of some urascertained convoying vessel. This
cannot be true. For, independently of the fact,
which appears to be satisfactorily established, that
Long Island Harbour, in the island of Grand Mag.

nan, when this vessel was captured, had never been
used as a place of rendezvqus for a convoy, it is
very clear that such an order would, not have been
obeyed by a vessel that feared exposure to capture;
for it is proved to have been a place often visited by
American privateers.
We, therefore, consider the vessel's departure
from Etang Harbour to the place where she was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

captured as voluntary, and her patient stay at that
place as manifesting.that she
did not fear exposure
C1
to American c.pture. Yet it does not follow necessarily, that it was the Fly privateer that she was
waiting for, nor that she expected. to be captured
at all. "The cargo intended for the American market may, by possibility, have been intended to be introduced into the United States, by being trannshipped into some smuggling vessel. So far every
thing comports perfectly. with the innocence.of this
capture.
But the privateer Fly also drawssuspicion upon
herself in the very inception of her voyage. W
find, what we pronounce absolutely unprecedented,
notwithstanding every effort to prove the contrary, that the captain, Dekoven, is sole owner of the
privateer, and every man under hi/n, from the lieutenant down, is engaged on wages. In the case o
the Washington privateer it was a circumstance of
great weight with this court that nine out of fifteen
of the ship's company were joint owners, and it was
thought improbable that such a transaction, if there
was fraud in it, would have been confided to so many
witnesses.' But here no man but the captain is to
participate in the prize money, and he thus presents
himself as the most convenient agent possible to be
intrusted with such an undertaking. Perhaps this
circumstance. may give a leaning to the mind of the
court in considering the effect which ought to be
Vide ante, p. 169 The Bothnea and Jabnstaff.

283
1817.
The George.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

'

The George.

given to other evidence in the cause; but if so, it is
Dekoven's misfortune, and one which lie has himself furnished the cause for.
It then becomes necessary to consider whether
the arrival of Captain Dekoven was the object of
this vessel in taking the position she did, in the
island of Grand-Magnan. And here it is proper to
remark that Etang Harbour, lying up the bay of Passamaquoddy, N. W. and by W. of St. Johns, where
this vessel took in her cargo, is off the course to
Cuba, and a very convenient situation for intelligence
with Machias, in the province of Maine, by means
of a chain of islands extending across the bay. One
of these islands is Moose Island, about five leagues
distant from Grand Magnan, and something less
from Etang Harbour. Now, the evidence is very
satisfactory to prove that the Fly lay, some time
in December, al Machias; that during that time
Sebor, the lieutenant and brother-iniaw of Dokoven,, was absent from the vessel. And Jabez
MoWry, Who resides on Moose I~land, swears, that
during that time Sebor wagon Moose Island, and holding communication with certain notorious smugglers
from the staten; to one of which, of the name of
Toler, from New-York, he had a letter. Again;
the pilot who was on board the Fly swears that
from all he saw on the occasion of the capture,
he concluded it was amicable; and Aaron Gale, a
witness, resident upon the island of Grand-Magnan,
who saw the whole transaction, swears to the same
fact, and adds, that after the capture, the captain of
the privatedr and his prize-master came on shore to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

285

1817:
a neighbouring house, where the witness then was,
ancl got something
0 to drink. This looks very little Tho George.
like a consciousness of being among enemies. To
this he adds, that he heard a British officer, who
was at the time recruiting upon the island, threaten
Vanhorne, the supercargo, who, together with all
the crew except the supposed captain, were immediately put on shore, to puthim in irons for the fraud
in thus colluding with the enemy.
I will notice but two more pieces of testimony
which the case affords, and which, taken with the
rest, we think too strong to be resisted. The first
is that of Richard Higgins, who testifies that, on the
arrival of the George off the harbour called Frenchman's Bay, or, as he expresses himself, at Mount
Desert, he, the deponent, was the first person who
boarded her; that Sebor, the lieutenant of the Fly,
who was the prize-master, told 4im where they had
captured the George; upon the witness's inquiring
what she was loaded with, he replied, fish and lumber. The witness remarked that she floated very
light for such a load, upon which Sebor replied he
did not know what the cargo consisted of, and that
he wanted to get farther to the westward. The
witness then.told him, distinctly, "that he presumed
the capture had been made by some previous understanding, and that, if such were the case, he thought
he would be likely to fare better, and undergo a less
rigorous scrutiny, if he put into this district, than he
would if he went into any of the more western districts, upon which, after consulting with some one of
his crew, he went in." This testimony is important in

'286
1817.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

two views, 1st. The plot here developes itself, and
we find the fish and lumber actually resorted to as
the means of cloaking the introduction of the British
gdods. And the resort of Sebor to this deception,
(for he must have known it to be such, had it been
only from the inspection of the invoice,) shows his
privity to the secrets of the machinery. 2dly. Go.
ing into the port after the suggestion of Higginson,
amounts to a passive acquiescence in the correctness
of his suggestions, and an acceptance of the facilities held out to him to induce him to enter that port.
The last and only remaining piece of testimony
that we shall notice, is that of Joseph Grindel, of
Penobscot, who swears that he was in St. Johns at
the time the George was Ilading; that he was familiarly acquainted with Vanhorne, the supercargo, and
that he held a conversation with him, respecting a
passage, and the shipment of a hogshead of- molasses to the states, and remitting the money to his
mother at Penobscot, which, if it he true, (and we
have no cause to doubt his veracity,) puts to rest
every question relative to the fraudulent design, with
which this adventure was undertaken. And.the
same witness further swears, that, after consenting
to take his adventure on board, (an adventure thiat
never could have been intended for the Havanna
market,) Vanhorne sailed a day or two sooner than
he had intimated to the witness. That upon this
he complained to Nehemiah Merrit, the shipper,
and received from him this notable answer, "le
suspected your politics, and was afraid you' would
betray him-"

OF THE UNITED STATES.

287

Upon the whole, we are of opinion that it was a
1817.
case of collusive capture, and that the decree be- "

Th, krgd.

low should be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.,

(PRACTICE.)

The ARGO.
The provision in the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20., section 30., us to
taking depositions de bene esce, does not apply to cases pending in
this court, but only to cases in the district and circuit courts. Testimony by depositions can be regularly taken for this court only undet a commission issuing according to its rules.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts..
*Thiswas an information for a violation of the nonimportation acts. On the part of the appellants it was
alleged, that the vessel, (which sailed from P~rtland,
in the District of Maine, in April, 1813, and returned
to that port, laden with a cargo of molasses, in the
month of August, of the same year,) instead of going
to Cumana, her ostensible port of destination, had
proceeded to Guadaloupe, then a British possession,
and there took in her cargo. This was the sole
question of fact in the cause; on which the court below decreed restitution to the claimant, from which
decree an appeal was entered on behalf of the United States to this court.

