OF THE. UNITED STATES.

"ease shall :ultimately appear entitled to farther
proof, an order will be made for that purpose,]

373 .
1817.
Leaox
V.

Farther proof was ordered in the cause.

]Robert-.

Mlarch 1Oe.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the claimant, offered to read mar& Isth.
aflidavits, as farther proof, which had not been taken
under a commission, But they were rejected by
the court; the cause was continued to the next term;
and the farther proof ordered to be taken under a
commission, according to the rule of court of the
'present' term.
Cause continuedq
a Vide Apim~inx, Note I.

'LENox et al. v. ROBERTS.
Where all the property of the late bank of the United States had been
assigned by a general assignment in trust to assignees, for the purpose of liquidating its affairs, Quxre, Wether any action at law
could he .mpintainedby the assignees, on certain promissory notes,
endosed to, and thq property of the bank, which had not been spe.
cialy assigned nor endorsed to the assignees ?
However this may be, it is.lear that a suit in equity might be main,
tained by the assignees against the parties to the notes.
A demand of payment of a promissory note must be made of the ma14'r
on t4e last day of grace; and where the endorser resides in a

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

314
18i7.
Lox

different place, notice of the default of the maker should be put intol
Sthe post-office early enough to be sent by the whil of the succeed.
ing day,

V.

Roberts.

Tins was a suit in chancery, brought by the apV
pellants against the respondent, in the circuit, court
of the District of Columbia, for the county of Alex?,
tndria; the complainants, in their bill, stated that
the president, directors, and company of the Bank
of the United States, by their deed, assigned to Thoms Willing, John Perot, and James S. Cox, their
executors, administrators, and assigns, all .and singular the mortgage§, judgments, suits, bonds, billg,
notes, debts, securities, contracts, goods, chattels,
mony,and effects, whatsoever, due or belonging to
the bank; together with all the ways, means, and
remedies, for the recovery of the same, upon the
special trust in the deed enipressed. That Thomas
Willing, John Perot, and James S. Cox, afterwards
assigned to the complainants, all and singular the
debts included in the deed to them. The bill farther stated, that one Elisha Janney, made and delivered to the defendant five promissory notes, dated and
payable at Washington, and for the following sums,
.towit: one note for 1,000 dollars, payable in sixty
days from the 22d February,'1 809, &c.; amounting'
in the whole, to 4,020 dollars. That the defendant
discounted the 'said notes in the 'Branch Bank of the
United States, at Washington, about the times they
bear date, and endorsed the same at Washington.
That Janney did not pay the notes when they became due, and that he was insolvent when'the notes

OF THE UNITED STATES.

became due. That the notes being made and dated
in the county of Washington were subject to the
laws prevailing in Washington county, and the defendant bound to pay, on the failure of Janney to
pay. The complainants claimed these debts as
proprietors thereof; and called on the defendant specially to state whether Janney was not insolvent
when the notes became due; whether the said notes
were not duly protested for non-payment, and the
defendant in due time notified thereof, and did not
attempt to secure himself by some lien on Janney's'
property. The bill concluded by praying a decree
against the defendant, for the amount of said notes.
The defendant, in his answer, did not admit that
the complainants were duly authorized to recover
-and receive the debts due to the bank; but he'admitted that the notes were by him endorsed in blank,
and delivered to Janney, but contended that they
were not obtained to be discounted in the bank of
the United States, nor were discounted for the bene.
fit of the defendant, but for the use and benefit of
tlisha Janney, who received the money from the
Bank. And that it was well known to the president
and directors of the bank, that the said notes were
endorsed by the defendant for the accommodation
of the said Elisha Janneys without any value being
received by the-defendant. The defendant's answer
farther' alleged, that due and legal notice was not
given him- of the non-payment of the notes;
that no demand of payment of the*notes was made
of Elisha Janney, by the Bank; that the notes were
all dated at Alexandria; that Elisha !anney, on the

378
1817.

v.

CASES lN THE SUPREME COURT

29th of May, conveyed all his property to Richard
M. Scott, in trust for the payment ot his debts, in.
Lenox
Roberts. cluding the debt to the bank.
There was some contrariety of evidence as to the
time when payment of the notes was demanded of
the maker, and the 'time when notice to the defendant as endorser, who resided in Alexandria, was put
into the post-office at Washington.
The bill was dismissed by the court below, on
which the cause was brought by appeal to this
court.
1817.

1bTzkch 13th.

The cause was arkued by Mr. Swann, for the ap-

pellants, and by Mr. Lee, for the respondent.
Alarch 15th.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion

of the court.
The court will not give any opinion whether any
action can be maintained at law upon any of the
promissory notes in the record, by an assignee who
does not claim the same by an endorsement upon the
notes. For, in this case, there is no specific assign.
ment of these notes; the only asgignment is a general assignment, in trust, of all the property of the
late bank of the United States, and, as the act of
incorpotation had expired, no action could be maintained at law by the bank itself. Under these circumstances, the court is clearly of opinion that a
suit may be maintained in equity against the other
parties to the notes. Anothber question arises in the
cause, whether the endorsers have had due Potice of
the non-payment by the makers. As there is some

OF THE UNITED STATES.
contrariety of evidence in the record, the court will

only lay down the rule. And it is the opinion of the
court, that a demand of paymeiit should be made
upon the last day of grace, and notice of the default of the maker be put into the post-office early
enough to be sent by the mail of the succeedi:
day.
Decree reyetsed.

(cOITSTITUTIoNAL.

377
117.
Colson

V.
Lewris.

LAW.)

CoLsON et al. v, LEwis.
The jurisdiction of the circuit courts of the U~nitea States extends to a
case between citizens of Kentucky, 'claiming lands exceeding the
value offive hundred dollars, under different grants, the one issued by
the state of KentUcky, and the other by the state of Virginia, but
uponwarrants issued by Virginia, and locations founded thereon prior
to the separation of Kentucky from Virginia. It is the grant which
passes the legal title to the land; and if the controversy is founded
upon the conflicting grants of different states, the judicial power of
the courts of th6 United States extends to the case, whatever may
have been the equitable title of the parties prior to the grant.

Tm opinion -of the court in this cause was delivered by Mr.Justice W.ASHINGTON.
This suit in equity was removed into the circuit
court of Kentucky, upon the petition of the defendant, filed in the state court; and, upon a motion
made in the circuit court to dismiss the suit from
VrOL. 1T.

AIarch 14th.

