OF THE UNITED STATES.
:iendment was rejected upon the prix'ciple-of which ought, there.
ground that it would be dangerous
to insert in the code a general
provision of this nature, which
though it might be required in
some cases, would, in others, be
perverted to the. protection of
fraud .an4 negligencer.and the

(coRM05

fore, to be applied bpy
judicial discretiou inevery particular case,
according to its own.peculiar circupntance** IRq ri 'du Code do
CommeUe, war J. G. LocrS. torh
3.,p. 1ei,

87
utc'cou
V.
L"Wp'

LAW~.)

i U'Codx v.Liu i's Administralriz
A. LA.brought an actionof assumpsit in the circuit court, and after Issue
joined, the plaintiff died, and the suit was revived by scirefacima in
the name of his administratrix. While the suit was stilldepending
ne administratrix intermarried with F. A., which marriage was
pleaded puis darrein continuance. Held that the ecirefacia was
-thereupln abated, and a 'new scire facias might be issued to revive
the original suit in the name of F. A. and wife, us the'personal representative of A. L., in ordesto enable her to prosecute the suit
until a final judgment under the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20. sec. 31.
Where aWitness, a clerk to the plaintif, swore that the several articles of merchindize contained in the account annexed to his deposition, were sold to the defendant by the plaintiff, and were chmged
in the plaintiff's day-book by the deponent and another person who
is dead, and that the deponent delivered, and further swore, that ho
haa referred to the original entries in the day-book; held, that this
'-wassuScient evidence to prove the sale and delivery of the goodc,

'ERROR

to the circu:t. court for the district of Vir-

ginia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Lee, for the Feb.. 1,t2
plainif iaerror, and by Mr. Swann, for the defendant in error.

~.11

-CASPS IN THE SUPREME COURT

i817.

Mr. Chief Justice Mia'sH 'LL delivered thQ opinioh
Sof the court.
V.
Albert Lekamp:brought this suit in' the, cruht
Feb. 15th. cotirt, t the district
of Virginia, for the rec6very
of money claimed to be due to him from Neil M'Coul,
the defendant below. After issue joihed the plaintiff died, and the suit was revived in the name of his
administratrix. While the suit was still depending,
the administratrix intermarried with Frederick L. E.
Amelung, which marriage was pleaded puis darren
t
continuance. The scire facias was thereupon"abated
and a new scirejaciasissued to revive the orievinal
action in the names of Am.elung and wifq, as the
personal representatives of Albert Lekamp.
At a subsequent term the cause was tried on the
original issue, and a verdict found for the plaintiff
on which the defendant prayed that the judgtqent
might be arrested for the following reasdgs :. ".e-

cause he saith, that after the plea pleaded the original plaintiff, Albert Lekaiqp, departed this life,, and
Sophia Lekamp, his administratrix, sued,'fotth, a
i
,t
screfaczs t revive the su~lt,on the 4th of Julyj ,181
that while the suit stood revid
'in her xiime aa
administratrix, the said Sophia Lekamp intermiarried
with Frederick L. . Amelng, and on the 4th of
December, .jU12, this defendant haying pleadqe, thw
intermarriage aforesaid, it was ordered that thot
.'cire fa4eiabd ahpted, wheregppn the sa4dredorick
L.E. Amelunfg and Sophipt his wile, as adhiizstratrix aforesaid, sued out; a new scare fpaast9 revivo
the suit, and there.;being iqo 9,yw'.l9, 'plqaded or
any consent that the cause slhould be revived in any

bF THE UIMTED STATES.

other manner than the law would direct, the jury
was empanneled, and a verdict found as aforesaid;
and the said defendant saith, that the act of Congress,
in that case made and provided, doth not warrant
the revival of the suit in the name of the said Ame.'
lung and wife, under the circumstances aforesaid."
These errors were overruled, anid a judgment
rendered conforming to the verdict of the jury.
At the trial of this caiuse, the plaintiff offered ih
evidence the deposition of Zachariah Roberts, with
the accounts thereunto annexed. The deponent
states, that he was clerk of Albert Lekamp, from
the 10th day of January, 1804, to the 9th day of
June, i809. That the account B., annexed to his
deposition, is a just and true account current taken
from the books. That on the 8th day of November,
1805, Neil M'Codl paid up the balance for goods
purchased previous to the 26th of April, 1805, with
the interest due thereon as stated. He therf recapitulates-in his deposition the several items on the debit
side of the account current, which is composed of the
sums total of-goods delivered on particular days,
.and "states most positively that the said items are
taken from the account current of the said Neil
M'Coul on the said Lekamp's books, which books
he kept, and has had reference thereto. That
viewing and referring to the other paper writing
annexed, marked, also, with the letter B., beginning
with the words, ' a statement of merchandise sold.
and delivered to Neil M'Coul,' he saith that the
several articles of merchandise therein enunmerated,
specified, described, anl at large set forth and
VOL. IL

P

iar.
DvCota

v.
Lekamp,

M11

G4SES IN THE SUPREME COURT

-charged, and contained also in the before-mention¢4
M'Couj account current, marked B., were sold by said
L.
Albert Lekamp, in his life time, and at the respective
eaw,, times at which they are charged to the defendant,
Neil M'Coul, and were chargedin the day-book of tho
said Albert Lekamp, by the deponent and Mr. Vithake, who is now deceased, and the deponent delivqered them," &c. The deposition then proceeds to
state that the prices are correctly stated ; that all
due credits, so far as he knows, are given; and that
the balance is truly struck: Arid adds,, that the depooent, before giving in his deposition, had referenco
to ihe original entries on the day-books of Lekampt
which entries were made by Mr. Vithake himself.
The first account, marked B., is, as is stated in the
deposition, the account current. The second account, also marked B., is a particular and detailed
enumeration of the articles sold and delivered, with
their prices, and agrees in amount with the account
current.
The counsel for the defendant movPd thp court.
not to alloiy the said accounts to go in evidence tq
the jtry, as not *beingcopies of the original entries
jn the day-books or original books of the plaintiff's
intestate; but the court was of opinion, that the
account B., beginning with the words 'statemnent,'l
&c., was substantially stated by' the witness to be 4
popy from the day-books, or original books of entries)
and that the same was sufficiently proved to go in
eyidence to the jqry, together with the said depo-ilion. The -defendants excepted to this opiniog.
1817.

OF THE.UNITED SVfATES.

Two-errors are assigned in the proceedings of the
cofirt below :
ist. In reviving this' suit after the abatement of
the first scirefacias, which error ought to have.arrested the judgment.
2d. In permitting the account, marked B.) to go
in evidence to the jury
The first error assigned is of some consequence,
as the decision upon it furnishes a rule of practice
for all the circuit courts of the United States.
The argument for the plaintiff in error is briefly
this- At common law all suits abate by the death
or marriage of the plaintiff, if a ferne sole ; and such
suit could not be prosecuted in the name of the representative, or of the husband and wife, unleqs enabled so to do by statute. The act of congress provides for the case of death, but not for the case of
marriage. Consequently, the suit of a fme so& who
marries abates as at common law.
This argument, if applied to an original suit, in-stituted by a feme sole, would certaihly be conclusive: but this suit was not instituted by a feme sole.
.It was instituted by Albert Lekamp, who died while
it was depending. The -law says, "That where
.any suit shall be depending in any court of the United States, and either of the parties shall die before
final judgment, the executor or administrator of such
deceased.party, who was plaintiff, petitioner, or defendant, in case the cause of action doth, by law,
survive, shall have full Dower to prosecute or defenA
any such suit or action until final judgment?'
When, therefore, Albert Lekamp died, his admirr-

18t7.
D1'coul

V.

-

11€
1317.

CASES IN'TRE SUPREME COURT

istratrix, since the cause of action survived, had full

v
power given her by the .statute to prosecute this suit
MICoul
V,. until final judgment. The suit did not abate, but
Lekamp. continued on the dodket as the, suit of Albert

Lekamp. It did not become the suit of the admin.
istratrix, but remained the suit of the intestate, to
be prosecuted by his representative. The marriage
of this representative 'would abate her own suit, but
could not abate the suit of lher intestate. That still
remained on the docket, 'to be prosecited by her,
according to the letter of the law, as well as its
spirit, "until final' judgment," If her marriage
abated her scire facias, and the original suit still remain'ed on the docket, was still depending, then its
state was the same as if a sciro facias had'never issued; in, which case all will admit a sciro facias
ought to issue in the name ofhusband and wife.
This court is unanimously of opinion, that as the
original suit did not abate, the scire facias in the
name of the administratrix, while a fenw sole, constituted no bar to a scire facias in the name of the liu.
band and wife after her marriage, to.enable her still
"to prosecute that suit until a final judgment."
The question whih grows out of the bill of exceptions is entirely a question of construction. All
admit, that inthis action the delivery of th6 goods
sold must be proved, and that the entries to which
tie witness may refer must be the original entries
made in the day book. The doubt is, whether,
upoin right construction, the deposition of Zacha.
niab Roberts amounts to this. He says, that the
several articles of merchandise contained in the ac.

19F THE UNITED STATES.

wount annexed to his deposition, were sold to the de.
1817.
fendaut by Albert Lekamp, and were charged inthe TdCoul
V.
day-book by the 'deponent and another person who
Lekamp.
is dead, and that the deponent delivered them. He
further. swears that he had referred to the original
entries in the day-book. He could not swear more
positively to the delivery of the goods than he does;
but as it is clear that he could not, even for a week,
recollect each article which is enumerated, he accounts for his recollection by saying that they were
entered in the day-book partly by himserf, and partly
by another clerk who is dead, and that be has refer.
red to this day-book. This is an account taken
from the original entries made at the time of delivery, and is, theiefore, admissible. The account current, though agreeing with the account taken from
tfhe day-book, appears not to have gone to the jury.
Judgment affirmed.e
a Whatever might have been
the doctrine of the civil, or RoIan" law, on this subject, it is
ertain that by the codes of the
nations of the European eontinent, which are founded on that
law, the books of merchants and.
traders are, under certain regulations, evidence against those
,with whom they deal. Thus, by
the law of France. the 'books of
traders, regularly kept, may be
admitted as evidence, in commercial matters, between persons engged ia trade. Code de Ceim.

mirc, Liv. 1. Tit. 2. Des Livres
de Commerce, Art. 12. So, also,
the booka of tradesmen make a semi-prof against all persons dealing with them, the oath of the party being'added to this Imperfect
evidence afforded bi the booko.
To which Pot/bier adds, that the
tradesman must enjoy the reputa,
tion of. probity; that the books
must be regularly kept; that the
action must he commenced within
a year from the time the article
are delivered; that the amount be
not too great; and that there. is

1.8

CASES IN TWhJ

SUFRElE COURT.

nothing improbable in the demand
arising from the circumstance3 and
lI'Coul wants of the debtor. De Oblige.
y.
Lekamp, lions, .N'os. 719. 721.
By the common law of England, books og account, or shop
books, are not allowed, of themselves, to be given in evidence for
the owner; but a clerk, or servant, who made the briginal entries, may have recourse to them
to refresh hid memory, as to
other written memoranda, made
at the time of the transaction. So
if the clerk or servant who made
the entries be dead, the books may
be admitted in evidence, to show
the delivery of the articles, on
producing proof of his hand-writing. Bull. J. P. 282. Price v.
' Torrington. 1 SaJZ. 285. S. C. 2
Ld.Raym. 873. Pitmanv. Madox.
2 Salk. 690. Butifthe clerkbeliving, though absent without the jurisdiction of the court, the entries
Cooper v.
are inadmissible.
P. C. 1.
Marsaen. , Iep. .X.
In most of the United States the
Eugisb lawr on this subject js adherod to as the rule of practice.Butin others it has beenchanged
%ither by ipaSe and decisions of
1817.

the courts founded thereon, or by
positive statutes.
Thus it hat bee n hold, by the
supreme courtofN ow-Yorl, (Mr.
Justice PLATT di ssenting,) that
where there are r egular dealings
between the plain tiff and deferdant, and it is proved that the
plaintiff keop3 fair and honest
books of account that some of
the articles charge d to the dofendant have been delivored to him;
and, that the pli intiff kreps no
clerk, his bookn "account aret
under these restric flien, and from
the necessity of tho case, admissible evidence for th o consideration
of the jury. Voabu.rgh v. Thayer,
12 Johns. Aep. 4631.
In Ponnsylvani a, and in the
eastern states geno rally, the plain.
tiff's books of acc ount,, together with his suppleto y oath proving
the original entries , and the sale
and delivery of th o articles are
evidence to prove such sale and
delivery.. Poultene, yet al. v. Ross.
BtIll. I Bin1 Dall. 238. Steritt *Y'.
v.
ney, 234. Cogswell Dolivor. 2
wIaso. Rep. 217. 'rime v. Smith..
4 JOss. Rep. 4 s.

