196

GASES, IN THE SUPREME COURT

1817.
Rutherford
V.

(LOCAL

Greene's
hbirs.
RUTIHERFORD

v.

LAW.)

GREENE'S

heirs.

A question relative to the title of the late M1jor-Genoral Nathaniel
Greene, to 25,000 acres of land given tp him, within the bounds of
the land reserved for the use of thp army, by the 10th section of tho
act of the legislature of North Carolina, passed in 1782, as a mark
of the sense entertained by that state of his eminent services.

THis was a bill in chancery, filed in the circuit

pourt for the district of Tennessee, by the appellant, against the heira of the late Major-General
Greene.
Yeb. 24th.

March 4th.

The cause was argued by Mr. Campbell and Mr.
Harper, for the appellant, and by Mr. Law and id.
Jones, for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHAmL delivered the opinion

of the court.
As this case depends entirely on the validity of
Greene's title, the court will notice only so much of
the record as respects that title.
In the year 1777 the state of North Carolina
opened a land-office, for the purpose of selling' till
the vacant lands east of a line described in the apt,
. In the year 1780 an act passed, reserving 'a certain tract of country for the. officers and soldiers of
the line of that state.
This act is lost.

OF THE UNITED STATES7
In the year'1782 an act passed, "for the relief of
the officeis and soldiers in the continental line, and
*for other purposes therein mentioned." This act
gives certain specified quantities of land to the officers and soldiers; then the 7th section commences
thus: "And, whereas, in May, 1780, an act passed
at Newburn, reserving a certain tract of country to
be appropriated to the aforesaid purposes, and it being represented to this present assembly, that sundry
families had, before the passing the said act, settled
'on the said tract of country, Be it enacted," &c. The
section then proceeds to grant 640 acres of land to
each family which had so settled. The 8th section
appoints commissioners to lay off, in one or more
tracts; the land allotted to the officers and soldiers,
The 10thsection enacts, "that 25,000 acres of land
shall be allotted for, and given to, Major-General.
Nathaniel Greene, his heirs and assigns, within the
bounds of the lands reserved for the use of the army,
to be laid off by the aforesaid commissioners, as a
mark of the high sense this state entertains of the
extraordinary services of that brave and gallant
officer."
This is the foundation of the title of the appellees.
On the, part of the appellant it is contended, that
these words give nothing. They are in the future,
not in the present tense; and indicate an intention
to give in future, but create no present obligation on
the- state, nor present interest in General Greene.
The court thinks differently. The words are
words of absolutb donation, not indeed of any speci-

197

1817.
Rutherford

v.
Gieean's
hei.

CASES IN THE' SUPEUE COURT'

198

1sit.
Bd'tbr
BRdtherford

V.

hrns

fic land, but of 25,000 acres in the territoky set apart
for the officers and soldiers:

"Be it enacted, that 25,0Q0 acres of land shall be
alloted for and given to Major-General Nathjaniel,
Greene," Persons had been 'appointed in a previoua
sectiop to make particular allotments for individuals,'
out of.this large territory reserved, and the words of
this section contain a positive mandate to them to set
apart 25,000 acres for General Greene. As tle act
was to be performed in future, the words directing.
it are necessarily in the future tense. "Twenty-fiveo
thou~and acres of land shall be alictted for, and given
to, Major-General Nathaniel Greene." Given when ?
The answer is unavoidable-when they shall be allotted.

Given how? Not by any future act ;-for

it is not the ljractice of legislation to enact, that a
law shall be passed ty some'future legislature :-but
given by force of this' act.'
It has been said, that, to make this an operative
gift, the words "are hereby" should have been inserted before the word "given ;" so as to read, "shall
be allotted for, and are hereby given to," &c. "Were
it even true that these words would make the gift
more explicit, which is not admitted, it surely cannot
"be necessary now to say, that the validity of a legis.
lative act depends, in no degree, or its containing the
technical terms usual in a conveyance. Nothing can
be more apparent-than the intention of the legislature to brdbr their commissioners to make the allot.
ment, and to give the land when allotted to General
Green6.
The I lth section auttiorizes the commissioners to

OF TIIE UNITED STATES.

:appoint surveyors, foi 'the purpbse of sufveyibg the

199
1817.

lands given by the precbding sections of the law.

In pursuance of the direcfions of tbii act the cornmissioners allotted 25 000 acres of ladd to'General
Greene, and caused the tract to be surveyed. The
.survey was returned to thie office of the'legislatuie,
on the I1th of March, in the y6ar 1783. The allotment and survey inarlied out the land given by the
act of 1782, ancl separated it from the genieral fiabi;
liable to appropriation by others. The general gift
the, territory reserved for
of 25,000 acres, lying in"
the officers and soldiers of the line 'of N6fth'Carolina, had',ow become'a particular gift of the 25,060
acres, contained in this sirvey.
Against this' conclugion has Been urged that rticle in the constitutih of North Carolita which di.
;ects that there should be a seal of the state to be
kept by the gverfidr, and affixed to all grants. This
lekislative, act, it is'said, cannot amount to a grant,
'since it wants a' formality required by the constitution.
This pvovisiop of the constitution is so obviously
intended for the completion and authentication of an
instrument, attestinga title previously created by law,
'which instrument is so obviously the mere evidence
of prior legal appropriation, "and no't the act of original appropriation itself, :that the court would certainly have thought it unnecessary to 'advert to it,
had not the argument been urged rep'eatedly, and
'with much earnestness, by counsel of the highest respectability.
After urging that these lands were not positively

V.

Greenc'u

imim.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

181.7.
itutherford

V.

reem

granted to General Greene, the counsel for the ap.'
pellant proceeded to argue that it was in the power
of thelegislature to retract its promise, and that the
legislature had retracted it.
Before attempting the difficult task' of describing
the limits of the legislative power in cases where
those limits are not fixe8 by a 'written consti,. :an,
the court will proceed to inquire whether the government of North Carolina has, ip fact, revoked its
peomise, or recalled its gift,
At a session, begun on the 12th of'April, 1783,
the assembly passed 'an act for opening the land
office," thereby extending the line describhing- the
country in which lands might be entered so far west
as to'comprehend the territory reserved for the offi-.
cers and soldiers of the North Carolina line.
The 11 th section of this act contains a proviso
saving from entiy the, lands within the botunds re.'
served for the officers and soldiers.
At the same session an act was-paised "to amend
the act for the relief of the officers and soldiers of
the continental .line, and for other purposes."
The first six sections of this act prescribe .the
'aode
m
.of individual appropriation, and of obtaining
titles.
The 7th section "For prevention of disputes,"
enacts, "that the officers and soldiers aforesaid, shall
enter and survey the lands within the following lines,
1Beginning," &c.
'This section, it is said, changes the place reserved,
and marks, out a new territory for the otficers ,and
soldiers. it is, then, contended, that this act, and

6Fo THt UNWITEb STATES.

2,901

the preceding act fbi' opening thelknd offibe, ire to 1817.
be construed together, and
the provisn of the Ith Rutherrord1
6
section of that act applied to the 7th section of this;
by which operation the whole territory before reserved for the officers and soldiers, including the
land surveyed for General Greene, Is -opened foi'
entry.
The court does not concur with the counsel fo
the appellant in any part of this argument.
There is nothing in the law leading to the opizion that the place reserved for the officers and soldiers was changed. The fair construction of th6
acts is that the reserve was restricted to narrower
limits, not transferred to different ground.
It has been contended, that the court is restraibed
from giving this construction to the acts undei'
consideration, because the bill avers that the
place was changed, and the demurrer admits the
fact.
The court will not inquire whether this averment
is fcdnded on an apparent misconstruction of the
law, nd is, therefore, to be disregarded; or is thd
averment of a fact compatible with the law; because
the fact itself does not essentially affect the case.
If the place in. which lands were reserved generally for the officers and soldiers, but not individually
-appropriated, was 'changed; the individual appropriation- made for General Greene, within their
original limits, was not also changed. The act did
not profess to remove him with them, and he conVOL. IT

Cc.

V.
hameu.

202

0ASEt IN THE SUPREME COURT

sequently remained on the same ground, protected
by his pre-existing title, whatever it might be.
V.
But it is contended, that his title was annulled by
Gre-ne's the general authority given in the 9th section of the
18,1T.

e
Rutherford

act, to enter all the lands within the enlarged limits
then opened to purchasers.
To this argument it is answered,
1st. That the 1 th section reserves the land allotted to the officers and soldiers, then comprehending the land surveyed for General Greene, and,
2dly. That a general permission to enter lands
within a given tract of country must, of necessity,
be limited to lands not previously appropriated.
The positive exception contained in the 1 th section, it is said by the appellant, must be applied to
the land reserved to the officers and soldiers by the
subsequent apt changing their position ; because the
two acts must be taken together; and if 'so, there
is no exception comprehending the lands of General
Greene.
The two acts have distinct objects. The first
e,)ens a land office for the purpose of redeeming the
public debt by the sale 'of lands; and the second
prescribes the manner in which officers and soldiers
are to obtain titles -for lands given to them by the
state, and amends an act passed at a previous sessioz
on the same day. The legislature has 'not considered the reserve in the first act as transferred into
the second; but has, by the 8th section of the second
act, re-enacted in a modified manner the prohibition
intendedfor the protection of those for whom this
reserve was expressly made.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

But let it be conceded that the proviso bf the
11th section was repealed by implication, when the
position of the officers and soldiers was changed,
and a new prohibition -enacted and applied to the
new reserve; still it would be difficult to maintain
that this silent repeal, implied from the removal of
the object for which it was originally and chiefly
intended, should apply to another object originally
preserved by the provision, and for which it continues to be necessary.
But the court does not found its opinion on this
position, however well it may be supported by justice. The proposition is believed to 'be perfectly
correct, that the act of 1783,'which opened 1he land
office, must be construed as offering for sale those
lands only which were then liable to appropriation,
not those which had before been individually appropriated. Whatever the legislative power may be, its
acts ought never to be so construed as to subvert the
rights of property, unless its intention so to do shall
be expressed in such terms as to admit of no doubt,
and to show a clear design to effect the object. No
general terms intended for, property to which they
may be fairly applicable, and not particularly applied
by the legislature; no silent, implied, and constructive repeals, ought ever to be so understood as to
devest a vested right.
But it is contended, that this construction of the
acts of 1783 is forced upon us. because the rights of
others, and not.the right of General Greene, are exempted from the operation of that section which of-

20
1817.
'Rutherford

V.

Greece'a

holn,

Z04

OASES IN TE SUPREME COURT

fprs for sale all the land within the described terri1817.
Ntory;
'and the exception of one object exqlq4qa
1Autherford
V. others-of
I
the same cliaracter.
Greene's
lem. Without inquiripg what would be the force of thi
argument, if, in point of fact, xights similar to thesp
of General Greene were.received, and his o0ntted,
-let the fact be examined.
The first reservation in the act for opening the
land office, related to the lands of the Cherokee Indians.
Nothing could be more obvious thAn. the necpasity, as well as propriety, of prohibiting ql1 patvies
on Indian lands lying within the boundary offered
foi- sale, if the legislature intended they. sbold not
be -entered. The Indian title was not derived from
the state-of North Carolina; and to infer from the
recognition of this title, that others actually derived
from te'state, if not also recognized, are annulled,
is ndt admitted to be correct reasoning.
The only other reserve in this act is of the land
wiihin the limits allotted to the officers and soldiers,
and witfiin. these limits vas the land surveyed for
General Greene.
Our attention is next directed to the act to amend
the act "for the relief of the officer4 and soldiers," &c.
This act narrowg.the limits within which the military lands shall be surveyed, or changes them, so that)
in "either case, the land$ of General Greene are no
longer within them. Nothing can b more obvious
than that provisions relating to lands within this particular territory can ,have no implied application to

OF THE DNIED ST4EP.

title pre'viously acqpiired by G.Qneral Prepne to
lands not lying within it.
zct prohibits all persons
The 8th sictjon of. the
.
from entering lands within the hounds allotted to
the officers and soldiers.
The 9th section excepts out of this prohibition the
commissioners and surveyors, &c., appointed to lPy
off the military lands, and prescribes the mode by
which they may appropriate and acquire title to
lands given to them by the legislature.
The 13th section enacts that Governor Martin
and David Wilson be entitled, agreeably to the report of the committee, to two thousand acres of land
each, adjacent to lands allotted to officers and soldiers for which they may receive titles in the same
manner as the officers and soldiers.
The insertion of this reservation in this act leads
almost necessarily to the opinion that the lands
granted-to Martin and Wilson were a part of those
to which the act related; and the words of the sec-tion show that their title was acquired by this act.
By no course of just reasoning can it be inferred
from these permissions to make appropriations within bounds not open to entry generally, that a vested
right to lands not lying within the limits to which
this act relates, is annulled.
It is clearly and unanimously the opinion of this
court that the act of 1782 vested a title in-General
Greene to 25,000 acres of land, to be laid off within
the bounds allotted to the officers and soldiery, and
that the survey made in pursuance of that act, and
returned in March, 1783, gave precision to that title.

1817.'
GI.
(GreenA

becil

206
1817.
%
Johnson
V.
Pannel's

bei.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and attached it to the land surveyed. , That his
rights are not impaired by the aes of 1783, and the
entry of the appellant, all of which ard'subsequent
to his survey; and that it is completed by the grant

which issued in pursuance of the act of 1784, and
which relates to the inception of his title. The decree of the circuit court, dismissing tiue bill of the
complainant, is affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmed.

<LOCAL LAW.).

JoHNSONV. PANNEL's heirs.
It is essential to the validity of an entry, that the land intended to
be appropriated should be so described as to give notice of the appropriation to subsequent locators.
In taking the distance from one point to another on a largo river, the
measurement is to be with its meanders, and not in a direct line.
In ascertaining a place to be found by its distance from another
place, the vague words "about" or "nearly" and the like, aro to
be rejected, if there are no other words rendering it necessary to
retain them.: and the distance mentioned is to be taken positively.
Entries made in a wilderness, most generally referring to some prominent and notorious natural object, which may direct the attention
to the neighbourhood in which the land is placed, and then to some
particular object exactly describing it; the first of these is donouinated the general or de criptive call,and the last the particular
or loce'ive call of the entry, Reasonable certainty is required in
both : if tne descriptive call will not inform a subsequent locator in
vhit neighhnurhod he is to search for the land, the entry is de.

