45

OF THE UNITED STATES.

dewanded by the said complainant. 3dly. That the
tomplainant, after giving credit for the sum that shall.
be thus paid him by the said defendant, and all other
sums received by the said Margaret in her life, or the
complainant since her death, from,.or 6n account of,
the estate of the said Andrew, as well as the value

of gny part of the personal residue of the said Andrew's estate, which may have come to their, or
either of their hands, according to the date of such
receipts, shall have the aid of the said circuit court
to compel these defendants to raise by sale (if sufficient for that purpose) of their respective shares of
the reaf estate of the said Andrew, descended to
them, Ave-sixths of the balance that shall be computed to be du6 on the said bond, calculated as above
d.irectea. And, lastly, that the cause be remanded
to the circuit court for further proceedings.
Decree accordingly.

(COMMO!?

LAW.)

DuvArL v. CRAG et. al.
Variances between the writ and declaration are matiers pleadable ic
abatement only, and cannot be taken alvantago of upon generIjl-

demurrer to the declaration.
A trustee is, in general cuable only in cqity; but if he chooses to
bind'himself by a personal covenant he is liable at law fora breach

tbereofy although he describe himself as cdvenantin6- as trustee.

I81?.
V.
Crdf .

CASES IN THE SUPREM1E COURT
1917.
o
Duvall
Ci.
Crag.

Where the parties to a deed covenanted neverally against their own
acts and incumbrances, awl also to warrant and defend against their
own acts, and those of all other persons, with an indemnity in landa
of an equivalent value in case of eviction; it was held that these
covenants were independent, and that it was unnccessary to allege
in the declaraion any eviction, or any demand or refusal to indetnnify with other lands, but that it was sufficient to allege a prior incumbrance by the acts of the grantors, &c., and that the action
might be maintained on the first covenant in order to recover pecuniary damages.
Where the grantors covenant generally against incumbrances mado
by them, it may be construed as extending to several, as well as
joint incumbrances. No profert of a deed is necessary ivhero it iq
stated only as inducement, and where the plaintiff is neither a party
nor privy to it.
An averment of an eviction under an elder title is not always nicccsary to sustain an action on a covenant against incumbrances; if
the grantee be unable to obtain possession in consequence of an
existing possession or seisin by a person claiming and holding under
an elder title, it is equivalent to an eviction, and a breach of tho
covenant.

ERROR

to the circuit court for the district of Ken-

tucky.
The capias ad respondendum issued in this case
was as follows: "The United States of America to
the marshal of the Kentucky district, Greeting.
You are hereby commanded to take lohn Craig,
RobertJohnson, and Elijah Craig, if they be found
within your bailiwick, and them safely keep so that
you have their bodies before the judge of out district court, at the capitol in Frankfbrt, on the first
Monday in March next, to answer William Duvall,
a citizen of the state of Virginia, of an action of covenant; damages fifty thousand dollars; and have'then
and .there this writ. In testimony whereof, Harry
Innes, Esq. judge of our said court, hath caused the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

seal thereof to be hereunto affixed this 2d day (f
January, 1804, and of our independence the 28th.
-Thomas Turnstall, C. D. C."
Whereupon the plaintiff declared against John
Craig, Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig, in covenant, for that whereas, on the 28th day of February, 1795, &c. the said John, and the said Robert and
Elijah, as trustees to the said John, by their certain
indenture of bargain and sale, &c., did grant, bargain, sell, alien, and confirm unto the said plaintiff, by the name of William Duvall, of the city of
Richmond and state of Virginia, his heirs and assigns for ever, a certain tract of land lying and being in the state of Kentucky, &c., together with the
improvements, water courses, profits, and appurtenances whatsoever, belonging, or in any wise appertaining; and the reversion and remainder, and remainders and profits, thereof; and all the estate,
right,'title, property, and demand of them, the said
John Craig, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig,
trustees for the said John Craig, of, in, and to the
same, to have and to hold the lands thereby conveyed with all and singular the premises, and every
part and parcel thereof to the said William Duvall,
his heirs and assigns for ever, to the only proper use
and behoof of him, the said William, his heirs and
assigns for ever; and the said John Craig, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig, trustees to the said
John Craig, for themselves, their heirs, executors,
and administrators, did covenant, promise, anc'
agree, to and with the said William Duyall, his heirs
and assigns, that the premises belbre mentioned,

1817.

Duval
V.

Craig.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
leiT.
Duvall

V.
Craig'

then were, and for ever after should be, free of and
all former and other gifts, bargains, sales,
dower, right and title o'f dower, judgments, execub
tions, titles, troubles, charges, and incumbrances
whatsoever done, or suffered to- be done by them,
the said John Craig, and Sarah his wife, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig, trustees for the said
John Craig, as by the said indenture will more at
large appear. And the said William, in fact, spith,
that the premises before mentioned were not, then
and there, free of and from all former gifts, grants,
bargains, sales, titles, troubles, charges, and incumbrances whatsoever done and suffered to be done by
the said John Craig, and Sarah his wife, and Robert
Johnson and Elijah Craig, trustees to the said John
Craig. Bat, on the contrary, the said John Craig and
Robert Johnson, theretofore, to wit, on the 1 th day
of May, 1785, assigned the place and certificate of
survey of said land to a certain John Hawkins Craig,
by virtue of which said assignment, Patrick Henry, governor of the commonwealth of Virginia,
granted the said land to said John Hawkins Craig,
,and his heirs for ever? by letters patent, dated the
16th.day of September, 1785, and now here shown
to the court, the date whereof is the day and year
aforesaid, which said patent to the.said John: Haiv.
kins. Craig, on the day and year first aforesaid, at
the district aforesaid, was in full force and virtue,
contrary to the covenant aforesaid, by reason of
which said assignment, patent, and incumbrance, the
said William hath been prevented from having and
enjoying all or any part of the premises above men.Sfrom

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tioned. And thereupon the said William further
saith, that the defendants aforesaid, although often
requested, have not kept and performed their covenant aforesaid, &c. To which declaration there
.wasa general demurrer, and joinder in demurrer,
and 'a judgment thereupon in the circuit court for
the defendants.
The indenture referred to in the plaintiff's deelaration is in the following words: "This indenture, made this 28th day of February, 1795,
between John Craig, and Sarah, his wife, and Robert- Johnson and Elijah Craig, trustees for the
said' John Craig, all -of the state of Kentucky, of
the one part, and William Duvall of the oisy of Richmond, and state ,ofVirginia, of the other part, witiesseth, that the said John Craig, for and in consideration of the sum of two thousand pounds, current
money of Kentucky, to him, the said John Craig, in
hand paid, the receipt whereof they do hereby acknowledge and for ever acquit and discharge the
said William Duvall, his heirs,-executors, and administrators, have granted, bargained and sold, aliened
and confirmed, and by these presents do grant, bargain and sell, alien and confirm, unto the said William Duvall, his heirs and assigns for ever, a certain
tract of land lying and being in the state of Kentucky,
arid now county of Scott, formerly Fayette, on the
waters of the Ohio river, below the Big Bone lick
creek, it being the same lands that the said John Craig
covenanted by a writing obligatory, bealed with his
seal, and dated the second day of December, 1788,
to convey to Samuel M'Craw, of the city of RichVOL.

.

G

1817.
Duvail

v.

Craig.

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

50
1R17.

~
Duvall
V.
Craig.

mond, and which said writing the said Samuel
M'Craw, on the back thereof, endorsed and transfer.
red the same on the 2.7th day of February, 1789, to
William Reynolds, and .which is bounded as follows:
beginning at a poplai and small ash corner, to William Bledsoe, about thirty miles nearly a south
course from the mouth of Licking; thence S. 15, E.
520 poles with the said Bledsoe's line, crossing four
branches to an ash and beech ; thence S. 75, W. 1.50
poles, to a hickory and beech; thence S. 15, E. 400
poles, crossing a branch to a.sugar tree and beech,
near a branch; thence S.75. W. 87 poles, to three
beeches, corner to Robert Sanders; thence with his
line S. 15 E. 600 poles, crossing two branches to a
poplar and sugar tree; thence S.60 poles to a sugar
tree and beech; thence w6st 217.1 poles, crossing
five branches to a large black walnut; thence north
1580 poles, crossing a large creek and four branches
to a sugar tree and ash ; thence E. 2006 poles, crossing live branches to the beginning; containing twenty thousand -four hundred and forty acres, together
with the improvements, water-courses, profits anid
appurtenances whatsoever to the same belonging, or
in anywise appertaining, and the reversion and reverpions, remainder and remainders, and profits thereof,
and all the estate, right, title, property, and demand,
of them, the said John Craig, and Sarah, his wife,
and Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig, trustees for
the said John Craig, Q, in, and to the same, to have
and to hold the land hereby conveyed, with all and
sirjgular the premises and every part and parcel
-thereof. to the said William Dpvall, his heirs apf]

OF THE UNITED STATES.

assigns for ever, to the only proper use and behoof 1817.
of him, the said William Duvall, his heirs and assigns 0 %DuraH
for ever. And the said John Craig, and Sarah, his
V.
Craig.
wife, and Robert Johnson and Elijah Craig, trustees
to the said John Craig, for themselves, their heirs,
executors, and administrators, do covenant, promise,
and agree, to and with the said William Duvall, his
heirs and assigns, by these presents, that the premises before mentioned now are, and for ever after
shall be, free of and from all former and other gifts,
grants, bargains, sales, dower, right, and titles of
dower, judgments, executions, title, troubles, charges,
and incumbrances whatsoever done, or suffered to
be done, by the said John Craig, and Sarah, his wife,
and Robert Johnson and Elijah Craig, trustees for
the said John Craig. And the said John Craig, and
Sarah, his wife, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah
Craig, trustees for the said John Cfaig, and their
heirs, all and singular the premises hereby bargained and sold, with the appurtenances, unto the said
William Duvall, his heirs and assigns, against him
the said John Craig, and Sarnh, his wife, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig, trustees for the
said John Craig, and .their heirs, and all and every
persons whatsoever, do and will warrant and for
ever defend with this warranty, and no other, to wit,
that if the said land, or any part thereof, shall at any
time be taken by a prior legal claim, or claims, that
then and in such case they, the said. John Craig, and
Sarah, his wife, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah
Craig, trustees for the said John Craig, and their
Iheirs. shall make .eood to the said William Duvall

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

Duvall
V.
Craig.

and his heirs, such part or parts so lost, by supplying
hia the said William Duvall's use, other lands in
fee of equal quantity and quality, to be djudged of
by two or more honest, judicious, impartial men, mu-

Sto

tually chosen by the parties for ascertaining the same.
In witness whereof the said John Craig, and Sarah,
his wife, and Robert Johnson, and Elijah Craig,
trustees for the said John Craig, have hereunto set
their hands and seals, the date first in this indenture
written.
JOHN CRAIG.

(L..S.)

SARAH CRAIG.

(L S.)

ROBERT JOHNSON,

Trustee for John Craig.

(L. s.)

ELIJAH CRAIG.

Trustee for John Craig.
,Signed, sealed, and deliver. ed in presence of

(Y s.)

5

Charles W. Byrd.
T. S. Threshly.
Thomas Corneal.
Christopher Greenup.
Robert Saunders.
James Taylor.
Jos. Wiggleworth.
George Christy."
Feb.

8th.

Mr. B. Hardin, for the plaintifi, made the following points: 1. That the variance between the writ
and declaration, as to the description of the parties,

OF"THR UN ITED STATES.

was immaterial. Naming two of the defendants as
trustees, is only descraptio persona, and could not alter the nature of the covenant. 2. Judgment was
rightly rendered against the defendants in, their individual capacity. 3. It was unnecessary to aver a
demand" and refusal of other lands of equivalent
value as an indemnity, this covenant not being sued
upon; and the action might be maintained upon the
first covenant against incumbrances by the parties to
the deed. 4. That the breach alleged in the declaration was sufficient. 5. That it was unnecessary to make profert of the assignment described in
the breach.
Mr. Talbot, contra. 1. The variance between the
writ and declaration is a substantial variance, and is
therefore available on general demurrer. The parties, Robert Johnson, and Elijah'Craig, are not sued
in' their iiduciary character; but they are declared
against as trustees to the said John, who is the cestui
que irust, and could not be joined in an action at av
with the trustees. They covenanted as trustees, and
a court of equity is the proper forum in which they
ought to be sued. 2. Having covenanted as trustees, no individual judgment could be rehdered
against them. 3. Supposing the trustees to be liable
in their individual capacity, the.two covenants in the
deed are to be construed in connexion; the clause as
to an indemnity viith other lands of an equivalent
value, ought to'be applied to both; and the declaration is fatally defective iniot alleging a demand and
iefusai to indemnify with other lands. 4. The cove-

51
1817.

v.
Crmg.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.
Duvall

v.
oraig.

nant, on which the breach'is assigned, is against the
joint and not the several incumbrances of the parties
to the deed. The incumbrance alleged is the act of
two of the parties only. 5. There is no profert of
the assignment to John Hawkins Craig, by 'which
the incumbrance was created; nor is it shown to
have been made for a valuable consideration. 6.
There is no averment of an eviction of the plaintiff
under the assignment, which was absolutely necesosary to sustain the action on the covenant against incumbrances.
Mr. A. B. Hardin,in reply. 1. The variance between the writ and declaration could only be taken
advantage of by a plea in abatement. 2. As between a trustee and the cestui que trzst a court of
chancery is the only jurisdiction; but trustees may
bind themselves individually so as to be amenable at
law. The present case is not that of a covenant
binding the trustees, only as to the trust fund in their
hands; but they covenant for themselves, their heirs,
executors, &c. The mere description as trustees,
therefore; bcomes immaterial. 3. The covenants
are independent, and the action may be maintainc
to recover pecuniary damages, without alleging an
eviction and demand of other lands of equivalent
value. 4. Where there is any doubt, a covenadt is to
be construed most strongly against the covenanters;
and in a case of this nature, the law considers an act
done by one or more of the covenanters as a breach
of the covenant. 5. No profiert of the assignmont
was necessary, because the action was not founded

OF THE UNITED STATF.

upon it, nor was the plaintiff a party or privy to it;

1817.

and the omission ofprofert was ground of special demurrer only.

DuvaiU

,.
Crag.

Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the march lt.
court.
Several points have been argued in this case,
upon which the opinion of the -court will be now
pronounced. In the first place, it is statd, that a
material variance eyists between the writ and declaration, of which (being shown upon oyer) the court,
upon a general demurrer to the declaration, are
bound to take notice; and if so, it is fatal to the action. The-supposed variance consists in this, that
in the writ all the defendants are sued by their christian and surnames only; whereas, in the declaration,
the deed on which the action is founded is averred
to be made by the defendant, John Craig, and by the
other defendants, Robert Johnson and Elijah Craig,
"as trustees to the said John," and the covenant on
which the breach is assigned, is averred to be made
by the said John Craig, and Robert Johnson and
Elijah Craig, "6trustees to the said John." The
argument is, that the writ is founded upon a per.
sonil covenant, and the declaration upon a covenant in auter droit, upon which no action lies at law;
or if any lies, the writ must conform in its language
to the truth of the case. It is perfectly clear, however, that the exception, even if a good one, cannot
be taken advantage of upon general demurrer to the
declaration, for such a demurrer is in bar to the
action; whereas variances between the writ and
declaration are matters pleadable in abatement only.

CASES IN THE SUPR13ME COURT

i181.
!)avail

v..

Crig.

But there isnothing in the exception itself. A
~ trustee, merly as such,.is, in general, only suable
in equity. But if he chooses to bind himself by a
personal covenant, he is liable at law for a breach
thereof in the same manner as any other person,
although he describe himself as coven'anting ao
trustee; for, in such case, the covenant binds bim
personally, and the addition of the word&, "as
trustee" is but matter of description to show the
character in which he acts tor his own protection,
and iti'no degree affects the rights or remedies of
the other party. The authorities are very elaborate
on this subject. An -agent or executor who covenants in his own name, and yet describes himself as
agent or ep .cutor, is personally liable, for the obvious
reason that the one has no principal to 'bind, and
the -other substitutes himself for his principal.a
a Whore a person acts as agent
for another, if he executes a deed
far his principal, and does not
mean to bind himself personally,
he should take care to execute
the deed in the name of his principal, and state the name of his
priheipal only, in the body of the
deed. White v. Cuyler, 6 Term
R-7 176. Wilkes v. Back, 2
East, 142. The usual and appropI'iate manner is to sign the deed
"A..B. by C D., his attorney."
1f, instead of pursuing this course,
the agent names himself in the
deed, and covenants in his own
vame, he will be personally liable
Qa the covth I als, notwithstanding

he describes himself as agent.
There are numerous cases to be
found in the books illustrative of
this doctrine decided in the text.
Thus in Appleton v. Birks, (5
Ecst, 148.) where the defendaut
entered into 'n agreement, under
seal, with the plaintiff, by the name
of T. B. of, &o., "for, and on the
part and bebalf of the right ho.
nourable Lord Viscount Rokeby,"
and covenanted for himself, hin
heirs, executors, 4o., "on the
part aid behalf of the said Lord
Rokeby," and executed the agree.
ment in his own nameit was hold,
that he was personally' liailo on
the covenant. Su whore a com-

OF THE TJNITELI STATES.

The reasoning upon this point dispoces, also, of
the second made at the argument, viz., that the
covenant being made by Robert Johnson and Elijah
Craig, as trustees, no individual judgment can be rendered against them. It is plain that the judgment is
right, and,. indeed, there could have been no other
judgment rendered, for at law a judgment against a
trustee in such special capacity is utterly unknown.
Having answered these minor objections, we may
now advance to the real controversies between thi
mittee for a Turnpike corporation was held, that they were perso'contracted under their own hands
and seals, describing themselves
as a committee, they were held
personally responsible. Tibbetts
v. Walker, 4 .Mass. R-ep. 59i.
So where a person signed a promissory note in his own name,
describinghimself as guardian, he
was held bound to the payment of
the note in his personal capacity.
Thatcher v. Dinsmore, 5 .Mass.
Rep. 299. Foster v. Fuller, 6
.ass. Rep. 53. Chitly &n Bills,
(Story's Ed.,) 40., and note ibid.
So where administrators of an estate, by proper authority from a
court, sold the lands of, their in-o
testate, and covenanted in the
deed "in their capacity as admninistrators," that they were seized
of the 'premises, and had good title
to convey the same; that the
same were free of all incumbrances, and that they would warrapt
and defend the same against' the
lawful claims -of all persons; it
VOL. it.

ally responsible. Sumner v. Williams, 3 .1ass. Rep. 162. Thayer v. Wendall, 1 Gailis, 37

In respect to public agents a dis
tinction has been long asserted,
and is now generally established;
and, therefore, if an agent of the
government contract for their benefit, and on their behalf, and describe himself as such in the eoatract, he is held not'o be persoially responsible, although thae
terms of thexodrtmct might, in
cases of a mere private nature, involve him in a personal rerponsi.
'bility. Macbeath v. Haldimand.
1 Terb Rep. 172.
Unwin v.
Wolseley, 1 Term Rep. 674.
Myrtle v. Beaver, i Ea . 13..
Rice v. Shute, 1 East, 579.
Hodgdonv. Dexter, I Crandi,363.
Jones v. Le Tombe, 3 Dail. 384%
Browp v. Austin, I .Mfass. Rep,
208. :Freeman v. Otis, 9 .Xau.
Rep. 272. Sheffield v. Watsonj
3 Caince, 6%

1817.
V.

Craij

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

parties. it is contended, that the two covenants in
deed are so knit together, that they are to be

Sthe
Duvall

V.

Craig.

construed in connexion, so that the clause as to an
indemnity with other lands, in case of an eviction by
a prior legal claim, is to be applied as a restriction to
both covenants; -and if so, then the action cannot be
sustained, for the declaration does not allege any
eviction, or any' demand or, refusal to indemnifyf
with other lands. There is certainly considerable
weight in the argument. I. is not unreasonable to
suppose that then the parties had provided a specific indemnity for a prior claim, they might mean
to apply the same indemnity to all the other cases
enumerated in the first covenant. But something
more than the mere reasonableness of such a suppo.
sition must exist to authorize a court to adoptisuch
a construction. The covenants stand distinct in the
deed,. and there is no incongruity or repugnancy in
considering them as independent of each other.
The first covenant being only against the acts and
incumblrances under the parties to the deed, which,
they could not but know, they might be willing
to become responsible to secure its perforinance by
a pecuniary indemnity; the second including a warranty against the 'rior claims of strangers also, of
which the parties might be ignorant, they might
well stipulate for an indemnity only in lands of an
equivalent value. The case ought to be a very
strong one, which should authorize a court to create,
by implication, a restriction which the order of the
language does not necessarily import or justify. It
ought to be one in which no judicial doubt could

OF THE UNITED STATES.

existof the real intention of the parties to create 1817.
such a restriction. It cannot be pronounced that
"Duv'al
such is the present case; and this objection to the
v.
qr13.
sustained..
be
therefore,
declaration cannot,
The remaining objections turn upon the sufficiency
of the breach aleged in the declaration. It is contended, that the covenant on which the 'breach is
assigned is against the joint, and not the several
acts and incumbrances of the parties to the deed,
and that, therefore, the breach, which states an assignment by John Craig and Robert Johnson only,
is wholly insufficient. It is certainly true that, in
terms, the covenant is against the acts and incumbrances Qf all the parties, and the words "every of
them" are not found in the deed. Some of the incumbrances, however, within the contemplation of
the parties are not of a nature to be jointly created;
as, for instance, the incumbrance of dower and title
of dower. This very strongly shows that it was
the intention of the parties to embrace in the covenant several, as well as joint acts and incumbrances.
There is also a reference in the premises of the
deed to a covenant for a conveyance previously
made by John Craig to Samuel M'ICraw, against
which it must have-intended to secure the grantees;
and if so, it fortifies the -construction already stated.
If, therefore, the point were of a new impression, it
would be difficult to sustain the -reasoning, which
-would limit the covenant to the joint acts of all the
grantors; and there is no authority to support it.
On the contrary, Meriton's case, though stated-with
some difference by the several reporters, seems to

CASES IN T'E SUPREMY COURT

V,.
Crag.

us completely to sustain the position that a covenant
of this nature ought to be construed as including
several, as well as joint incumbrances; and has certainly been so understood by very leirped abridgero..
.Meriton's Case, JV'oy; 86. S. C. Popha.;, 00.
S. C. Latch. 161. Bac. Mbr. CMienant, 77. Com.
Dig. Condition,(E.) This objection, therefore, id
overruled.b
b It may not, perhaps, be use- I/em' shall not bo taken jointless to the learned reader to statd ly; but if either of them disturb
the substance of Meriton's'case the lessee, it is a breach of the
a giien in the *arions reporters. condition." - The case, therefore,
19 .N'oy's Reports. 86., the case is as stated in both of these repot,
thus succinctly given; "A. and is substantially the same. But in
B. lease to M. for years, and cove- .Poplapap's Re.9orts, Q00., it is reneat that he may claim without ported somewhat difibrently. It
disturbaooe, interruption, or in, is there stated to he an action of
cumbranco' ) tlzep, and an obliov enant, upn 0 covenant in an
gation wNs made- for performance, indenture between the pla(otiffi
&o. A. makes anothe? lease to and their lessors, whereby the
C. who enters, and M. brought lessor covenant to dischargo them
debt, &e.;(op the obligation,) and of all incumbrances done by them.
by the -court,it is well, for the or any otherperson, and the pLu-.
tiffs assign for breach that one 1P
covenant is broken, and 'in?
skall not be -taken jqinty only, th lesois had made n lease. It
bptseverqllyalso. In Latch, 461., was moved in arrest of judgment#
the casp stands as fa.,ows'i "Debt that the breach was not woll-laid,
"because it is only laid to be done
upon an obligation. Two makea
lease for years by indenture, and by one of themfi, and the covenant
yovenant, that the lesseeshoul4 is to discharge~tsem qfinoumbran..
x.iot be disturhed, nor any ipcum- ces 'done by (hem, which shall
brance made by theP ; one of I" be intended joint Incumbrances,
I sors made a lease to a stranger, DoDDaaiDGt, J. The covenant
whQ disturbed, &c, The cendi- goes As well to ipcumbrancca
n
swto perform covenants. done severally ks jointly, for
And it was agreed by DoDDs- it is of all ineumbrances dono.
l0nez, Jozi, and WHITLE, to by them or. any ethrji"ersaon; and
t. brceach .o
tbrqodiiou for so was the oPIRto qf aQI
Ae oQtbvv

OF THE UNITED STATE8.
Another exception is, that there is no profert of
the assignment described in the. breach, nor is it
shown to have' been made for a valuable consideration. Various answers have been given at the bar to
this exception; and without deciding on others, it is
a sufficient, answer that the plaintiff is neither a par.
ty nor privy to the assignmen't, nor conusant of the
consideration upon which it was made, and therefore
is not bound to make a profert of it, or show the
consideration upon which it was made.
'The last exception is, that the breach does not set
forth any entry or eviction of the plaintiff under the
assignment and patent to John Hawkins Craig. Assuming that an averment of an entry and eviction un,
der an elder title be in general necessary to sustain
an. action on a covenant against incumbrances, (on
which WVe give no opinion,) it is clear that it cannot be
always necessary. If the grantee be unable to obtain liossession in consequence of an existing posses-

sion or seisin by a person claiming and holding under
an -elder title, this would ceitainly be equivalent .to
jutices ; and, therefore,. the ex.ception was overruled." From
this last report, it would seem
that the covenant was against incumbrances, not only of the lessors, but of other persons, and it
might, at first view, .be thought
that some stress was laid by the
court upon the last words. But
upon a careful consideration, even
supposing (what may' welI be
doubted) that Popham's is- the
=ore correct report, it would not

seem that the latter words, eOany
other pdrson," could be properly
held to embrace the lessees, or
either of them; for " other" is used
as exclusive of them; and, therefore, the cause must have turned
substantially upon the import of
the preceding words, ,of them,"
i. e. whether embrgciug several
as well as joint iocumhrancenA
Intthis view all the reports are
consistent, and put the case upon
the real pointin controversy.

Ipuivall
V.

Craig.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
1817.

an eviction and a breach of the covenant. In the
case at bar the breach is assigned in a very inartificial and lax manner; but it is expressly averred, that
the assignment and patent to John Hawkins Caig
was a prior conveyance, which was still in full force
and virtue, "by reason of which said assignment, patent, and incumbrance, the said William (the plain.
tiff) bath been prevented from having and enjoying
all or any part of thq premises above mentioned."
We are all of opinion, that upon general demurrer,
this must be taken as an averment, that the possession of the premises was legally withheld from the
plaintiff by the parties in possession, under the prior
title thus set up.c

Judgment reversed.
o The usual covenants in conveyances of real property by the
grantor are, that he ig lawfully
4eised in fee of the premises; that
he has good right and title to convey the same; that they are free
of all incumbrances; that the
grantor, his heirs, &c. will war.
rant and defend the same to the
grantee, his heirs, &c. against the
lawful claims of all lersons. The
manner of assigning breaches upon these covenants deserves the
attention of all persons who aspire
to a reasonable knowledge of the
duties of special pleaders. In case
of the covenants of seisin and of
good right and title to convey, it
is sufficient to allege the breach
by negativing the words of the covenant. Bradshaw's case, 9 Co.
60 b. S. C. Cro.. Jac. 304. Lan-

cashire v. Glover, 2 Shower, 460.
2 Saund. 181, note a, by Mr.
Sergeant Williams. Greenby v.
Wilcocks, 2 Johns. R. 1. Sedgwick v. Hollenback. 7 Johns. R.
376. Marston v. Hobbs, 2 Xass.
R. 433. Bender v. Fromberger,
4 Dall. 436. Pollard v. Dwight,
4 Cranch, 421.
The *covenant
for quiet enjoyment is not broken,
unless some particular act is
shown, by which the plaintiff is
interrupted; and, therefore, it is
necessary to set forth in the
breach, assigned in the declaration, an actual eviction or disturbance of the possession of the
grantee. FrancisO case, 8 Rep.
91.a. 6 Anon. Com. R. 228. 2
Saund, 181. note. Waldron V.
M'Carty, 3 Johns. R. 471. Kortz
v. Carpenter 5 Johns. R. 120.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
And where the eviction or disturbance is by a stranger, it is
further necessary to allege that
the eviction was by a lawful title.
Holden v. Taylor, Hob. 12. Fosterv. Pierson, 4 T. R. 617. Hodgson v. the E. L Company, 8T. A.
281. Greenby v. Wilcocks, 2
Johns.R. 1. Folliard v. Wallace,
2 Johns. R. 305. Kent v. Welsh,
7 Johns.R. 258. Vanderkaar v.
Vanderkaar, 11 Johns.'R. 12-2.
Marston v. Hobbs, 2 .Mass. .L
433. But it is not necessary to
allege the eviction to be by legal
$rbeess. 2 Saund. 181. note. Foster v. Pierson, 4 T. R. 617. 620.
And where the covenant is that
the grantee shall enjoy, without
the ititerruption of the grantor
himseyf, his heirs, or executors, it
is held to be a sufficient breach to
allege that he or his heirs or executors entered, without showing
it to be a lawful entry or setting
forth his title to enter. Lloyd v.
Tomkies, I T. R. 671. and cases
eited2 Saund. 181. note. Sedgwick v. Holtenback, 7 Johns. R.
376. Thecovenant ofgeneral warranty is governed by thesame rules;
for the granter, must assign as a
breach an ouster or eviction by a
paramount legal title. Greenby v.
Wilcocks, 2 Johns. R. 1. Folhard v. Wallace, 2 Johns. R. 395.
Kent v. Welsh, 7 Johns.R. 258.
Sedgwickv.Hollenback, 7 Johns.
R. 376. Vanderkaar v. Vander.:
haar, 11-Johns. _ 122. Marston,
- v.Hobbs, 2 Mass.R. 433. Emer-

son v.Proprietors ofMinot, 2,Mtass.
R. 464.
Bearce v. Jackson,
4 .Mass.R. 408. In respect to the'
covenant against iuumbrances,
it seemed admitted by Mr. Chief
Justice PAESsoNs, in Marston v.
Hobbs, 2 .Xass. R. 433. that there
was no authority directly in point;
but he held, that in principle it
was analogous to a covenant for
quiet enjoyment; and said, that in
the entries, the incumbrance is
specially alleged in the count. See,
also, Bickford v. Page, 2 .Mass.
R. 455. It does not, however,
seem necessary to allege an ouster or eviction, on the breach of
a covenant against incumbrances;
but only to allege the special incumbrance as a good and subsisting one. 'Prescott v. Truemao, 4
.Mass. . 629. And a paramount
title subsisting in a third person,
is an incumbrance within the
meaning of the covenant. Prescot v. Trueman, 4 .Mass. R. 627.
So a public town way is, in legal
contemplation, an incumbranco
on the land over which it is laid.
Kelldgg v. Inersoll, 2 .Atass. .R
-87. See Ellis v. Welsh, 6 .71aar.
R. 246.
There is some diversity of opinion as to the damages recoverable
upon a breach of theses everal covenants. Upon the covenants of
seisin, and of good right and title
to convey, it is held by the courts
of New-York and Pennsylvania2
that the grantee is entitled to the
purchase money and interest from

1817.

Duvall
V.
Craig.

CASES IN THE SUPREAM COUWUT
2817.

Duvall
'r.

Craig-.

the time of the purcbase. Staats v. ratnty, the rule ordamage alop.-"
Ten Eyck's executors, 3 Caine:, ed. in New-York and Pennsylva,
111. Pitcher v. Livingston, 4 nia is to give te purchase mon'ey
Johns R.']. Bender v. From- with interest and the costs of the
berger, 4 Dall. 441. The same prior suit; but no allowance is
rule has been adopted in Massa- made for the value of any imcbusett.
Bickford .v. Page, 2 provements. Staats v. Ten Eyalt'n
Mlass. . 455. Marston v. Hobbs, executors, 3 Caines, 111. Pitch2 .Jlass..R. 433. Caswell v.Wen- err. Livingston, 4 Johns. Rep. 1.
dajl, 4 MJfass. R. 108. But if the SPE-cEn, 5. dissenting. Bonnetv.
grantee has actually enjoyed the Jenkins, 13 .- ohns. Rep. 50. BonIand.i for a.long time, the purchase der v. Fromberger 4 Dall. 441.
money.and interest for a term not The same rule has been adopted
exceeding six'years prior to the in Tennessee. 5 Hail's.lmcricari
time of eviction is given; for the Law Journ. 330. But, in relagrantee, upon a recovery against tion to covenants of warranty, tho
him, is liable to account for the courts of Massachusetts have
mesne profts for that period only. adopted a different rule, and alStaats v. Ten Eyck's executors, lowed the damages,, or, in other
3 Caines, R. 111. Caulkins v. words, thd value of the property
Hams, 9 Johns. R. 324. Bennet at the time of eviction. Core v.
v. Jenkids, 13 Johns. R. 50. As Brazier, 3 Atiast Rep. 523. And
to the covenant against incum- .the same rule appears to be adopt.brances, it seems generally held, ed'in South Carolina. Libor cl
that the grantee is entitled to, no- ux. v. Parsons, 1 Bay,' 19. Gueminal damages oily, unlesshe ex- rard's executors v. Rivers, I
tinguish the incumbrance ; and if Bay, 265. &nd in Virginia.
he extinguish it for a reasonable Mills v. Bell, 3 gall, 312r humand fair price, he is entitled to re- phrey's admnintstratorav. MIClortcover that sum with interest froni achafi's administrators, 1 JI'Xun,
the time of payment. Delavergne 493. And in Connecticut. Hors.
v. Norris, 7 Johns. Rep. 3,8, ford v. Wright, Kirby, 3. Where
Hull v. Dean, 13 Johns. Rep. 105. there is a failure of title, as to
Prescott v. Pl'eefian, 4 .Mass. part only of the land granted, it
Rep. 627. And the costs, if any, has been held that the granted
to which he has been put by an cannot recover back the whole
action against him on account consideration money. If the title
of the incumbrance. Waldo v. has failed as to an individtd part
Long, 7 Johns. Rep. 173. In .ofan entire tract, the grantee is
respect to the covenant for quiet entitled to a like proportion of the
enjoyment and of general war- consideration; but if it be of a

OF THE UNITED STATES.
apeciffc proportion of the tract, the
a nages are to. be apportioned
according t6 the measure ot value
between the land lost and the land
preserved that is, the portion of
the consideration money to be recovered is to be in the same ratio to the entire consideration
that the value of the part, as to
which the title has failed, is to the
value of the whole tract. Morris
v. Phelps 5 Johns. Re9p. 49.
In respect to these covenants
running with the land, it has been
held in New-York and Massachusetts, that if the grantor be not
seised. at the time of conveyance,
the covenant of seisin is immediately broken, and no action can
be brought by the assignee of the
grantee against the grantor; for
after the covenant is broken, it is
a chose in action, and incapable of
assignment. Greenby v. Wilcocks, 2 Johns. Rep. 1. Bickford
v. Page, 2 .Ma. Rep. 455. But in
a recent case in England, a different doctrine was held; and it
was adjudged that such a covenant runs with the land, And
thorgh brokeii in the time ofa tes.
tator, is a continuingbroach in the
time of his devisee, and it is suffieient to allege for damage, that
thereby the lands are of less value
to he devisee, and thathe is prevented from selling them so advantageously. Kiugdou v. Noble,

"Vo . II

4JMzfzs

4- Selv. S3. And see
Kiogdonv. Noble, 1 .aule 4r

1817.

Sdw. 355. Chamberlain v. Williamson, 2 JMoaule 4- Sdlw. 408.
King v. Jones, 5 Taunf. 418. S.
C. 1 .lrarshd/,a Rep. 107.
By the Roman law, and the codes
which have been derived from it,
in casd the vendecis evicted he has
a right to demand of th vendor,
1st. The restitution of the price.
2d. That of the fruits, or mesno
profits, in case the vendee has
been obliged to account for them
to the owner. 3d. The costs and
expenses incurred both in the suit
on the warranty and the prior suit
of the owner, by wsom the vendee
has-been evictea. "4th.]Damages
and inierest with the qxpause3 legally incurred.
Pothier, De
Vents, .??os. 118. 123. 12-8. 130.
Code .Napoler, Lie. s. lit. 6. art.
1630. De [a Fente. The vendee
has likewise a right to recover
from the vendor, not only the
value of all improvements made
by the former, but also the increased value, if any, which the
property may have acquired independently or the acts of the
purchaser. 1 DonsaL 77. eec. 15.
16. Pohdier, De la Vene. .N'os.
132, 133. Code Apoleon, Li6.
3. til. 6. art. 1633, 1634, De l
'ente. Diesf of tke Ciri;La-3

Duvall
V.

of Lotifana, ,5,5.

Croig.

