OF THE UNITED STATES.
contrariety of evidence in the record, the court will

only lay down the rule. And it is the opinion of the
court, that a demand of paymeiit should be made
upon the last day of grace, and notice of the default of the maker be put into the post-office early
enough to be sent by the mail of the succeedi:
day.
Decree reyetsed.

(cOITSTITUTIoNAL.

377
117.
Colson

V.
Lewris.

LAW.)

CoLsON et al. v, LEwis.
The jurisdiction of the circuit courts of the U~nitea States extends to a
case between citizens of Kentucky, 'claiming lands exceeding the
value offive hundred dollars, under different grants, the one issued by
the state of KentUcky, and the other by the state of Virginia, but
uponwarrants issued by Virginia, and locations founded thereon prior
to the separation of Kentucky from Virginia. It is the grant which
passes the legal title to the land; and if the controversy is founded
upon the conflicting grants of different states, the judicial power of
the courts of th6 United States extends to the case, whatever may
have been the equitable title of the parties prior to the grant.

Tm opinion -of the court in this cause was delivered by Mr.Justice W.ASHINGTON.
This suit in equity was removed into the circuit
court of Kentucky, upon the petition of the defendant, filed in the state court; and, upon a motion
made in the circuit court to dismiss the suit from
VrOL. 1T.

AIarch 14th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that jurisdiction, the judges of that court were opColsonM Sposed in opinion, and caused the following facts to
V. be stated, to enable this court to decide the question.
Those facts are, that the value of the land in controversy exceeds 500 dollars,; that the complainants
are citizens of Virginia; and that the grant, under
which they claim title, is derived fiom the state of'
Kentucky, by virtue of warrants issue4 from the
land-office 'of.Virginia, and locations upon the warrants before the separation of Kentucky from Virginia: that the defendant's grant is from the state of
Virginia, by virtue of a warrant issued from the landoffice, and a location made thereon, before the separation of Kentucky.
The question referred to this court is, whether
the circuit Pourt for the district of Kentucky can
take jurisdiction of the cause, because the grants
for the land in controversy, lying in Kentucky, were
issued, the one by the state of Virlginia, and the
other by the state of Kentucky, when both grants
purport to be founded upon warrants and locations
made under the authority of the laws of Virginia.
It is the opinion of this court, that the question
which is referred to us, by the circuit court of Kentucky, is settled by the decision of this court, in the
case of the town of Pawle' v. Clark and others, [9
Cranch, 292.]
The only diflhrence between the two cases is,
that in the case referred to, both parties claimed immediately under grants, the one from the state of
Vermont, and the other from the state of NewHampshire, before the separation, which grants were
1817.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

379

the inception of title; and that, in this case, both 1817.
parties claim under grants, the one issued by the ",'
state of Kentucky, and the other by the state of Virv.
ginia, but upon warrants issued by Virginia, and loca- Lems.
tions founded thereon, prior to the separation of Kentucky from Virginia. But where the controversy
arises upon claims founded upon grants from different states, as the present case is understood to be,
the principle decided in the case which has been
cited precisely governs this. The decision in that
case is founded on the words of the constitution of
the United States, which extends the judicial power
of the United States to controversies between citizens of the same state, claiming lands under grants
of different states. It is the grant which passes the
legal title to the land, and if the controversy is founded upon the conflicting grants of different states, the
judicial power of the courts of the United States extends to the case whatever Mnay have.been the equitable title*of the parties prior to the grant.
Certificate accordingly.

