396

CASES IN TR

OUP1ERIE COUA T

1817.
Thelusson
V.

(CORN01

LAW.)

TEiusSoN Ot 0,L V. SMITn,
T. brought a suit against C. in the circuit court of Pennsylvania#
which was referred to arbitrators; an award was made in favour
of T., and a judgment nisi entered on the 20th May, 1805;' exceptions were. filedc- overriuld, and judgment fifially'entered on
the 15th of May, 1806. On the 22d May, 1805, C. exacuted a
Conveyance of all his estate to'trustees, for the payment of di
debts, at which time be' was indebted to the United States, orl
several duty bopds which becamp 'due at different periods subsequent to the 22d May, 1805. Suits were brought on the bonds an
they severally became due, and jidgments obtained, and.execu,
tions issued, utder which a landed eitate belonging to C. wau
levied upon and sold. T. brought an action against S., (the marshal of the district,) whn leyied the executlons, to recover so
much of the funds inhis hands as would be sufficient to satisfy
T.'s judgment. In this suit the juty found a special verdict that
C. was insolvent on the 20th May, 4805, but that it wan not notoriously known; and the parties agreed that on 'the 22d May,
1805, he was inable to satisfy all his debts, and that this fact
should be considered part of the.'special verdict.
feld, that the word ia ovencyj mentioned in th6 duty act of 1700,
ch. 35. sec. 45,; and reppated in the act of 1797, ch. 74. sec. S,,
and of 1799, ch. 128. sec. 65. means a Jegad insolvency, which,
,vhenever it occurs, the right of preference arises to the United
States as well asIn the other specified cases to which thle acts of
1797 and 199 have extended the casep of insolvency.
13ut if before the right of preference has accrued to the United
States, the debtor has made a on, fide conveytuce of his estate
to a third person, or an nortgaged it to securp a debt, or If ha
property has been seized undler an execution, the property ia do,
vested out of the debtor, and canpot be madp liable to the United
States.
. judgment givip to tile jodguont creditor a lien on the debtor'e
lands, and a preference over all subsequent judgment crmditorm
Put the law defeats the preference in favour of the tlnitc
'Etates in the casesspecifiedin the act qE 1799, ch. 128. scc 65,

OF THE UNITED STATES..
ERROR

to the circuit court for the district of Penn-

sylvania.

-

The plaintiffs in error instituted a suit in the circuit court for the district of Pennsylvania against
William Crammond wbich, by the agreement of the
parties, and thb order of the court, was. referred to
airbitrators. An award was made in favour of the
plaintiffs, and -ajudgment nisi was entered on the
20th of Kay, 1805. Exceptions were filed anl
overruled; and a judgment was finally entered on
the 15th of May, 1806. On the 22d of May,
1805, Crammond executed a conveyance of all his
estate to trustees, for the payment of his debts, at
which time he was indebted to the United States,
on several duti bbnds, which became due at diffier4
ent periods subsequent to the 22d of May, 1805.
Suits were instituted on these bonds as they severally became due, and judgments were obtained and
executions issued, under which a landed estate belonging to Crammond, called Sedgety, was levied
upon and sold.
The plaintiffl, considering this property as being
bound by their prior judgment of the 20th of May,
1805, and that they were entitled to be first satislied out of the money in the hands of the defendant,
(the marihal of the court,) which he had raised under
the above executions, issued in the name of the
Uited States, they brought this action to recover so
much of those funds as would be sufficient to satisfy
their judgment.
Upon the trial of the cause in the circuit court,
the jury found that Crammond was insolvent on the

397
1817.
Thelus=

V.
Smith.

398

CASE

is7.
Thelassonw.

i

IN THE SUPREME OOURT

20th of May, 7805, but that it was not notoriously
known; subject to the opinion of the court upon it
state of facts agreed between the parties, whether
the plaintiffs were entitibd to recover. The partids
further agreed, in writing, that, on the 22d of May,
1805, Mr. Crammond was unable to satisfy all his
debts, and that this fact should be consideredas part
of the special verdict. The othier facts referred to
by the jury are, in substance, those which have
been mentioned. The circuit court gave judgment
,against the plaintiffs below,4nd the cause fas brought
by writ of error to this court.
Mr. Hofikinson, for the plaintiffs in error. 1. It
is now settled that the insolvency of a debtor which
is to give a preference to the United States ovei
the other creditors, must be. not a were inability
to Iay debts, but a legal insolvency, testified by
some act -of notoriety. The question is, whether
the United States were entitlod to a priority of payment, out of this real estate, over a judgment render.
ed previous to the act of insolvency, with, which, and
by%.virtue of which, the, right of .priority originated
and attached. Whatever may be the nature and effect of the priority given by the acts of congress to
the United States, it has been distinctly decided, that
it is not a-lieh ;" and, therefore, it is said "thata conveyance shall not be detfeated by it, which would be
to giv. it the effect of a lien. It is clear, the legilature did not consider the preference given to the
a United States v. Hooe, 3 Cranc, 90

OF THE UNITEI) STATES.

TUnited States to have the force of a lien on the real
estate of the debtor, becadse the act of 1798, ch. 88.
sec. 15., expressly gives to the United States a lien
on the real estate of supervisors and other revenue
officers, from the time of the commencement of -the stdt
against them. Certainly'it cannot .be imagined the
United States intended to have a less security against
the delinquency of their revenue officers than in the
case of ordinary debtors; on the contrary, it is unquestionable, that -by the law of, 1798 they intended
to increase their' security against their revenue officers; and yet, if the mere right of priority has the
force and effect now contended for, the law of 1799
was not only unnecessary, but has really diminished
the security for the* payment of moneys collected
.b and due from these officers. That law limits
the responsibility of the real estate to the commejicement-of the suit; whereas, the responsibility now
claimed under the privilege of preference, has no
limit.. Should it be answered -to this, that under the
law of 1798, the United States are.made secure even
against conveyances and' mortgages subsequent to
the commencement of their suit, still it shows that
the legislature considered a lien on the real estate
of the debtor as something of a nature-and effect
higher and better than the Mere priority they before
enjoyed; and if it be so, it must holctthe same rank
in the hands of a citizen, and be considered superior
to the priority of the Ufiited States: especially, when
that priority attached after the lien was in full force
and operation on the real' estate of tl, debtor. If-any argument may be drawn from the reasoning of

399
1817.
V.

400
1817.,

CASES IN THE SUPRE='COURT

the counsel of the United States in other caseq, whero

Thelusson
V.

the same doctrine was agitated, it will be found, that
in the case of the United States v. Fisher and

Smith.

others,bit was expressly declared, that' this priority

%

was not claimed with the creation of the debt; nor
while the debtor remained master of his own property:
and such is now the admitted law. It follows, then,
that in the present case, the right of the United
States did not come into being until the execution of
the assignment on the 22d of May; and unless,
therefore, it. has a retrospective force and operation,
it cannot destroy or disturb a judgment entered on
the 20th of May, vesting an important and recorded
right in the plaintiffs. Supposing, then, that a mere
right of priority of payment could, in any case, overreach a bona fide judgment, in relation to the real
estate of the'debtor, bound by that judgment, when
the priority constitutes no lien upon it; still, the question rqmains, whether a subsequent right acquired
by the United States can have a retrospective oporation so as to overreach and defeat a prior right vested
fully and fairly in a citizen. To permit thisi is so
contrary to all practice and equity, and to'the general policy of the law, that the court will not sanction
it, unless boun4 by the most clear'and impeious auathority. What, then, is, the provision of the act of
congress, under Which this high and extraordinary
privilege is claimed ? After the decisions that have
taken place oni this subject, we are warranted in saying, that nothing is given but a priority or preferenco
&2 Cram*, 930.

OF THE URITED STATES.

ofpaymot-to the United States, in case of the insolvency of their debtor; but no lien, general or specific, on any part of his property; nothing which in-.
which
terferes with his control over that property;
prevents -hi& selling it altogether; or pledging it for
a debt; orexercising, bonafide, Ony of the usual acto
of ownership in relation to it. A man may be a debtor
to the United States, and lawfully do all these things
to the moment of his legal insolventy; he may do
them when he is actually insolvent; that is, unable to
pay all his debts. In the United States v. Fisherc this
priority is declared not to affect a purchaser. In
Wall. Rep. 22. a particular assignee is protected,
In the United States v, Hooe,d a mortgagee in trust,
as well as a mortgagee generally. Then, on what
principle of law,. of justice, or equity, should not a
judgment receive the same favour and protection?
2. In Pennsylvania a judgment has always been con.
sidered a higher and better security than a mortgage-; inasmuch as it has been supposed to give the
same fixed, immovable lien, on all the real estate of
the debtor, which a mortgage, which is also but a
security for the payment of a debt, gives on a specified part of it. There is no event on which, and
no means by which, the mortgagee can turn this
conditional into an absolute conveyance. If the
money is not paid, he must proceed to obtain a.
judgment on his mortgage; to take the xnortgaged
premises in execution ; to sell them by the procesa
Emnd officer of.the court; from whom he must receive
c 2 CUWd

V.IM.t.

390.

d 3 Cra=d

90.

401
1817.

402

CASES. iN THE SUPREME COUJtT

1811.

"
V.
SDi.

his debt, interest, and costs, and the surplus belong8
to thi debtor, as in the sal6 of any other property
-taken in -execution fot the satisfaction of a judgment.
On'what principle can it be maintained that ever
act of a debtoi ' over his real estate in, flivour of a
purchaser, or creditor, shall be available against this
preference'ot the. United gtates, except the most solemn of alktacts, a pqblic recordedjidgmefit ? 'That
this priorily is not, a lien on the property of' the
debtor has been- expressly decided; and,, fr this
reh.son, it is not permitt6d .to disturb a purchliser o"
niortgagee; it is, therefore; soiething, less, in the
dsftmation of the l,aw, than a li : h6w, then, can it
overthrbw the firmest of all liens, a judgment duiy
rernderedl? If'a debtor, by a particular assignment,
should appropriate his real estate to pay a debt; or
'6.

number of debts. the United States' codld not de-

feat. the appropiiation by their claiii to a preference;
and yet when h6 makes the same appropriation by
a.judgment, or, what' is perhaps strongev, the l1V
do'es it. for him, and lie certa;nly also intends' to do
it; 'the appropriation is invalid and ineffectual.ag'ainst
the'claim of the United States, resting'on 'a priority
arising, perhaps, years aftir the appiopriation waE
thus solemnly made, and on- the faith of which the
innocn't creditor may have trusted his all. Anothot
strange consequence and incongruity'grows out of
this doctrine, so pregnant with iniconvenience and'
injustice. A .judgment has unquestionable preference over a subsequent conveyance, assignment, or
Ates,
nuoi tgage. The priority, then, of the Unite

OF THE UNITED STATES.

shall not affect the conveyance, an assighment, or
a mortgage, but it -shall destroy that which is
greater than them all. It overthrows the stronger
security, while it cannot avail against the weaker.
Parther; when a debtor has secured the debt by a
judgment, is it not a sound principle that he cannot impair the security of his creditor by any subsequent act of his own, by any contract or conveyance
he,may afterwards make? How, then, can he do. so
bya bond given to the United States, by a.contract
afterwards .made with them? 3. The only distinction that can be drawn between a judgment and
a mortgage is, that the latter is said to, be a specoc,
and the former a general lien; or, in other words
the one covers the whole, "and the other but a
part of the real estate of the debtor. This has
always been Considered a circumstance to-the advantageo'of the judgment; and it is by a singular
course.of'argument it should be now discovered to
be precisely otherwise. In the first place it may be
asked why should either a general or specific lien
or right be overreached by a subsequent right ?
end why should not the one as well as. the. other?
There is no difference in justice or in law..A general lien at-law is just as, good and effectual as a specific lien. .In equity a general lien is sometimes
made to yield to an equity, whioa would not disturb
a specific lien; as in the case vhere one agrees to
purchase, and pays money on the contract, he has
been permitted to prevail against a judgment, but
not against-a mortgage. But, in this case, the purchaser must succeed on his equity.; for if he has none,

4Q0.
1817.
Thclu .

V.
Smth,

CASE9S IN THE SUPREME COURT

404
1817.
T

v.

as if he has paid a defective consideration, he, yvill
not prevail against a judgment.' Further, the pay.
ment, or advance of money, must have been, on the
specific land, to give the equity to his claim. Have
the United States any such equity in this case?
They .have no equity of any sort; they have advanced nothing; they have trusted nothing on the faith
of this land; on the contrary, the-plaintiffs have advanced their money on the faith of it: money is often
lent and no other security, is taken for it than a
judgment. But the claim of 'the United States is
placed mainly, if not whol!y, on the words of the act
What, then, is to be found therd
of congress.
which recognises any distinction between the rights
of a general and specific lien? There id nothing,
The mortgager has, therefore, been excepted on general principles of law and justice; and the same principles afford an equal protection to the judgment creditor. 4. The acts of congresA state particular oecurrences, insolvency for instance, from the happening
of which the United States shall have a 'riorty of
pa~ment over other creditors, out of ehproperty of
thr debtor; out df the property which he has at the
time of the happening of the fact, which givds the
right; at the time of the insolvency, in the present
case. This is the origin, -the commencement, the cre.
ation of the right, ,even of priority; and there if
nothing 'in any of the acts of congress to give a retrospective- operation to this right, bywhich it shall
',1
P.

Will. 2M?.

OP' TI UN1TEJ STATES.

overeach other rights previoutly vested. And a4
there is nothing in the words of the act to produce
this effect; ,neither is there any thing in the legal
nature of the priority to do it, inasmuch as the court
has decided it is no lien; and that it has no power to
disturb a previous conveyance or mortgage. The
law enacts that in all cases of insolvency where the
estate in the hands of the assignee shall be insufficient to pay alI the debts due, the debts due to the
United- States shall be first satisfied. And any as.
signee who shall pay any debt due by the insolvent,
out of his estate and effects, until the debts due to
the Ufited States are satisfied, shall he answerable
in his own person and estate. But what, properly
and legally speaking, is the estate of the insolvent, in
the hands, that is, at the disposal, of the iassignee?
Surely nothing but the interest which remains in him
after discharging incumbrances legally imposed upon
it. 5.But it is said the assignee shall not pay any
debt before that of the United States is satisfied; and
that a judgment is a debt, and, therefore, to be postponied. I would rather say a judgment is the security,
or -means to enforce the payment of a debt, than that
it is the debt. But if it be a debt, it is also something
more than a debt; it is a debt accompanied by a lien
to secure its payment; and the question is not whether the debt shall be postponed, but whether the
lien shall be defeated. So the money secured to be
paid by a mortgage is a debt, appearing, and, indeed, eieated by a bond referred to in the mortgage.
The difference between the cases, then, is only this,

18:17.
Thel umao

V.

406

CAS99 IN THE SUPREME COVRT

that the one is a debt secuied by a judgment binding all the real estate ; and the" other is a debt e7
..Thelussda
v.. cured by a mortgage biniding a part of that real esSmith.. tate. The supposed distinction between a general
and specific lien has no influence on this point in the
case; and if a judgment is to: be cut out on the effect
of the words "any debt," in the act of congress, I
know not.what is to save a mortgage. Itseems to
be.obvious that the law, when it speaks of debts to
be-postponed to the United States, relates only to
the case.ofa mere debt, standing on its own itrangth
and-security, and never intended to interfere with
any collateral or adJitional aci done in relation (d
the'debt, which gives a new right to the credi or;
but that right, whatever it may be, shall have ito
full Apd fair legal operation and efficapy. If, thenj
the debtor has pledged his property, or given a lien
upon it, or any part of it, it was never intended to
disturb this right. By taking preference of a more
debt, no injustice is done; at least, no rights are destroyed ; because the debtor himself might have done
the snme in favour of any creditor, having it in his
power to give preferences; and every creditor ktiow.'
ing he has this power cannot comolain if it is .oxer.
cised. On this construction, thirefore, the act of
congress brings no loss upon the creditor but what
he knew he was'exposed to, and 'consented to take
the 'hance of, when he trusted his-debtor. There
is a clear distinction between taking priority of pay.
ment of a debt, and overthrowing a security, a lien, a
pledge, general or specific, given fbr the paympnt of
the debt.
ji!:

4(V

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

Mr. Jones, contra. 1. This case is within the
yery terms'of the 65th section of the act of March
2, 1799, ch. 128. for collection of duties. The debt
debtor was insolwas due by bond for duties; the
vent, as Well. in fact as in law, accordingto thd legal intendment of insolvency as explained in that
section; his assignees, finding the est-te in their
hands insufficient to -pay all the debts, have first satitfled that'due to the United btates, .pursugnt to the
stridt injunctions of the law, and under the peril of
being chargeable, ip their 6wn persons, with the
debt. The term firit, in the section, relates simp y
to the antecedent "all debts." Then the debt dud

to the United Staies-shall be satisfiedfirst ofall debts;
without distinction of the quality or dignity of the
other debts, whether of record, by specialty; or sibapie contract. So the assignees are prohibited -from
paying any debt, (withoht exception,) before that due
the United States, at the peril of being personally
chargeable. The principle upon -which this court,
in the case of the United States v. Hooe[ construed
the assignment of property mentioned in another
clause of this section, to intend an assignment of uIZ

the detor'sproperty,applies more directly. and forcibly
to give the Uriited States a preference over afl debts,
without exception; indeed, it can pcarcely be called
Econstruetion, but a plain reading. The plaintiffs
contend that one species of debt, a judgment, still
maintains its former dignity and rights unimpaired;
ihat they, as judgment creditots, ought to havebeen
3 Crarh, go.

.1817
Thelura

v.

CASES

um17.
" "
Mbelusso•

v.

Smith.

THE
-I SUPRKE

COURT

pieferred -to the United Stai6s. Before that pretension can be -sustained, the plaintiffs must bring their
Case within sone exception of the law, either express
uece"sJrily implied. The former is out of the ques-

or

li6n-; for the -directions of the law are unqualified,
and without 'exception. If there be any such implied, it mast heso latent, and:is to be inferred only.
from such remote premises, and by so rvfired and
subtle a priwess of reasoning, -as would present a
-strange anomaly, in legislation. Surely there iE'no
defect of congruity or precision imputed by Oe coun.,
sel on the other.side to our construction of the law
which is, in any degree,-comparable to that of leav.
ing- s* rmportant and prominent an exception from
plain and "positive'terms of enactment, to be discovered only by the "optics keen" of the few gifted
intellects capable of deep research and abstruse deductions. As regards the great body of the community, such-a mode of legislation would be as'unreasonable as that of the Roman despot, who posted hiq
edicts so high that they could not be read, and then
puoi-hed his-subjects for their involuntary disobedierie. -2. No exception of one description of creditor,
anymore than another, is either expressed' or implied. - 'Tis true that the debt* due to the United
States ca-n only be satisfied out of the property of
.the* debtor. himself, according to the terms of the
law; consequently, there is no necessity foranv constructive or implied excepiion from the general terms
of the law: in order to save property in'
the hands
of a bona fide purchaser, from being "subjectod to

UP THE UNITED STAT E S.

409

the payment (f the vendor's debts: it is exeludecl
1817.
6x vi termini. nor could it have been brought
within 'Thelusson
;
"Athe purview of the law, without a substantive and.
a
is
mortgagee
A
effect,
that
positive provision to
purchaser; the estate is devested from the mortgagor, to whom nothing remains but an equity o" redemption; and to that equity of redemption must the
United States resort for satisfaction. A judgment,
on the contrary, operates no devesture of property
till carried into actual execution; and the debtor has
the jus diTonendrt as completely after judgment as
betore; except tnat tne purcnaser taites Cum oneke,
subject to the general lien created by the priorjudg.inent. That lien vests no- specific interest or estate
in the creditor; but is nothing more than an outstanding claim, (which may or may not be enforced,)
to have the judgment satisfied out of the estate:
let the judgment be, in any manner, released or sa.,
tisfied, and the lien is, ipsofacto, dissolved; the estate of the vendee is instantly discharged and exonerated from the claim, without any act whatever
proceeding from the creditor ot tme vendor to the
vendee. The mortgagee trusts the mortgagor, upon the faith of a contract which specifically vests in
him, the estate of the debtor, as a collateral security for the debt; the judgment creditor, on the con-.
trary, stands upon his legal rights, hqs trusted nothing to the faith of contracts, and has gained nothing
by contract; his advantage, whatever it be, is gained
by sheer coercion upon his debtor, and by mere
operation of law. To the mere operation of law,
therefore, let him look for his security. The prinVOL.11.

3F

"41t

CASES IN "HfE 'SUPRE

'"
COURT

icifp of affording greater protection to rights grow,.
ing ou't of bonafide contracts than to those acquired
by .mere operation of law, is not c6nfined to the cai s of general and specific liens as differently affectad by tne principle of. relation incident to a state of
barkfuptcy, or by a prior equiiy.; for it is a settlo d
rule of equity to afford relief as against assignee
coming into the legal estate by operation of law;
When relief would be refused as against Assignees

Jpi ?.
1-0'
•

-

or purchasers under contract for valuable considera-

tion. 3. Inorder to ascertain the state ofinsolvency,
in the life-time of the debtor, upon which the prefer.ehce of the United Statds ig to. b enforce,,threp
tesis) a'adopted; any one of which is suffioient;,
and all of which must be presumed .equal. betweoa
themselves': 1st. An assignment of property for the
beniefit of'creditors, at a time when the debtor has
not sufficiet for the payment of all his debts. -2d.
III' abscondifi, c6ncealmeht or absence, followed
byoa chment of his dffects; and 3d. Anact of legal
bankruptcy committed. Thid last (inasmuchas ihe
bankrupt law of the Unftid State., whs n(t paosed
Well
till afterw'ards) is pe'suhied tb comprehend, asid
acts. of legal 'bankruptcy orinsolvncy under,etate
aws, as unde'r the subseqtu6iit act of congress. ,Now,
it must be presuied that congress intended all those
enumerated instances f insolvehcyto ,beequivalent;

and to

%iP*d by precisely the same conseqrnn.

ces in reiation "o the rights ofthe United-States.
Then, if the, debtor had become insoieni, under the
lawof Pennsylvania, ever so long after the rendition

fjudgmeht, the prior, lien' would hare 'bcdn over.

Or THE UNITED STATES.

rached and annulled by relation, and a-." the creditors reduced to a perfect equality; and such, also,
unquestion.ably wouldhave been the case under the
bankrupt law of the United States. In either case,
could the preference of the United States over all
she creditors, thus reduced by,operation of law to
perfect equality, admit of doubt? A substantial
distinction between the consequences attached to
-sr
an act of legal bankruptcy," and those attached
to any other .of the equivalent acts of insolvency
-enumerated in the 65th section, is altogether inconceivable. The enumeration, among those acts, of
attachments against absconding debtors, shows what
little regard was had to the strongest of all liens p.roduiced by mere process of law, and not arising ex-conraptui in the nature ora bonafide alienation of property. 4.-As to the argument that has been so much
pressed to prove, that because the preference of the
United States does not overreach these conveyances
and incumbrances, it is not in the nature of-a lien created with the debt ab initio ; it may be salely admitted (and T'ndeed it is now settled) that it is not, technically speaking, a lien: yet the inference that it is
.therefore less 'than a lien, it not so obvious. The legislature, when it is contemplated to defeat one lien,
is under no necessity to effect, the object through
the instrumentality of another lien.- Nor is there
any-thing absurd or incongruous in making iat Paramount, which, according to pre-existing rules of positive institution, was inferior. It is perfectly com:petent~for the legislature to exalt the humble, and
hmble the exalted; and to declare the less tq b

alt.
1817.
fi
eltson2

V.

412
1817,
ess
Thelusson

v.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

greater, when the relative magnitudes of the tvo objects are not from the natdie of things, but the more
creatures of law. Then whatever success may at.
.tend the effort to establish a specific difference between a lien, technically so called, and the right of
preference claimed by the United States, the law is
express that the latter shall prevail- to place the
United States first in the order of payment of all debts,
It may have been deemed" adequate to' all ihe purposes of reasonable security, without attaching any
specific lien upon the debtor's property, that every
person who happens to be charged, either ministerir
ally or under trust, with the adminTstration of the in,
solvent's effects, is bound, at his peril, to regard the
established preference in favour of the United States.
5. It is objected, that our construction gives the
United States a more extensiye and coercive remedy
against an ordinary debtor for duties than wao
deemed necessary against defaultirg stiporvisors and
other officers of the revenue, upon whose estates tho
lien commences onlywith the commencement of' ilia.
suit, according to the provisions of thp act of 1798.
This objection would be entirely inconclusi.ve if it
were well founded; but, in truth, it has no foundation :
for not only is the commencement of suit made equi.
valent to attachment by the law of 1798, ant] any
alienation whatever of the defaulting officers' estate
thenceforth pervented; but that is cumulative on the
general preference secured to the United States, by
the, th section of the act of the 3d of March, 179 7 ,
ch.7,1. 6.The distirrztion insisted on,between a mere
debt and a debt accozpanied by a lien. betweexx

OF THE "UNITFD STATE%.

413

,osponzig a .4ebt, and defeating a hen, is doriceived
to be utterly unsubstantial. The general lien-inci- Thehamon
dental to a judgment, is the means of securing to the smth.
judgmebt creditor a preference over other creditors: take away his preference; postpone him to
another creditori and all the incidents by which his
preference was secured ari necessarily destroyed.
Mr. 0. J. Ingersol, on the same side. 1. The court
will not fail to. Pt. -ceive that the question involved in
this case arises, not out of the obnoxious act of the
3d of.March, 1797, ch. 74., the 5th.section of which
gives universal and unqualified preference to the govermment "where any revenue officer, or otherperson,
becomes indebted to the United States, by bond, or
rwoise,"' but out of the act of the. 2d of March,
1799, ch. 128., which affords priority to the government over individual creditors, only in the case of
custom-house bbnds aid duties. Even the constitutionality of the law of 1797 has been- questionedi
though always maintained; and its. policy has been
,he theme of severe animadversion. But the constitutionality-of the law of 1799 has.seldom, if ever,
been drawn into doubt; and its policy is sufficiently
obvious. Government could, if it would, exact payment of duties in money, or inra portion of the article
.imported, at the time of importation, instead of Donding the duties for future and contingent liquidation.
For the accommodation of merchants, the 62d section, at their option, substitutes bonds giving time,
on security, for payment, instead of exacting it on
the permit toland, and delivery of the g6ods; for

1 CAS981

4114
1817.
Thelusson

V..

Smith.

IN THE SUPREME C66URp

wvhich indillgence the priority, asserted, 'with h6tte#
to all the world, by the same law, is nothing more
than a.. fair and reasonable equivalenft. This priorlty'has been established by law ever sine the pre.
sent government of the United States. The acts 6f
the 31st of July, 1789, ch. 5.; of the 4th of Atigust,
1790, ch. '35. sec. 45. ;.of the 2d of March, 1792, sec.
18.; and of the 2d of March, 1799, ch. 128. sec. 65.,
have maintained it in an uninterrupted series of legislation, uniformly sustained by this court, and by the
state courts! 2. The question in the case in contro.
versy is, whether an individual judgment creditor,
without execution, and, ol course, having nothing in
possession, nor by specific lien, is entitled to i preference, priority, and advantage, superior to that "reserved andsecured,"by the act in question, to the public,
The Sedgely estate, in dispute, was taken in' e octltion *at the suit, and by the marshal of the. United
Stat.es,' before Thelusson could levy his executioA.
The controversy, therefore, is between a foreign individual creditor, who never had, and never could
liave, possession.of the property, and who i fortifled with no particular or specific lieh against it, on
the one hand; and the United States on the othdr
hand, from whose custody and possession he allege '
a superior right to take it, notwithstanding their statutory priority ot apparent right, and their legal
f Urnited States v. Fisbr el aL, 2 Cranch, 358. UnIted Statea v.
Baoe, 3 Crahch, 73. Harrison v. Sterry, et a., 5 Cranh, 28p-.
Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch, 431.
1%'Clcani. Itaniz Ca
SJ,Ms. fep. 6. Tinkor v. Smith, 2 Day's 17.c.

. .Tk%

UNITED STATES,

prinrzx pf aciial possession. The whole effect of
.the privatexreditor's judgment,, at all events, goes
.no further than to ascertain his debt, and give him a
general, not a specific, lien.

Upon this judgment

there could be no exeiuti6n till on the qtarlo die po s,
to wit, on the 2th May; and, in that interim, to wit,
on the 22d May, the general assignment took effect;

intercepted the operation,, destroyed all the advantages of the judgment; and created the very
page which the law provides for. 3. According
to- the law of Pennsylyania, a judgment creditor,
without execution executed, is entitled to come
-in only as a simple contract creditorA And, in
fact, -ajudgment is considered as no more than a
debt deprived of all attributes of lien, and merely
put in a course of istributon? These decisions,
Ihen, dispose qt once of all the argument that is introduced upon the general doctrine'of the dignity!
Sjudgments; and -ervb, moreover, to show the
allacy of many of the ingeiious" difficulties with
-which-the opposite counsel's view of the subj6dt
would embarrass the determination of the circuit
e.urt. The practice of the law'does not conform
to the theory he imputes to it. The jtidgment binds
theland--as whose property? As the debtor's. But
the mortgage transfers the-proprietpry interest to
the mortgagee; and though, in point of relative rank
or dignity. the judgment creditor may cQnceive him0eeqentitted t the first place, yet certainly the mortg Gibb7'v. Gibbs, I Dalk 373.
-A D1eSie'ep lessee r.Noe, 4 Dell.4s

J8j7.-

-

416

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

gagee is much better fortified against the law in
; because, in the one case, the property is
Thelusson
v.
still in he original debtor, liable to the future opeSmith. rations of a judgment; whereas, in the other case,
the property has been, in legal contemplation, conveyed away from the original debtor to his creditor,
with a clause of defeasance in the event of certain
conditions complied with. A .particular appropriation of the estate in payment of the debt would not defeat the pubic, preferencb, unless that appropriation
were followed up by a -conveyance of the estate, and
the actual change of ownership; in which case it
would be no longer the property of the public debtor.
4. The law contemplates the three cases of, 1st,
death; 2d, insolvency; and, 3d, attachment; to
which may, perhaps, be added, a 4th, that of legal
bankruptcy; though. this is nearly similar to the 3d.
Now,in the case of death and insufficiency of assets,
there can be no doubt. If Crammond had died on
the 21st May, 1805, the United States would crearly
have enjoyed the preference secured to them over
the plaintiffs. And why not in like manner in the
case of insolvency ? All the policy and all the hardship that can be imagined for the sccond case, are
just as applicable to the first. But because a line,
which it is not necessary to contest, has been diawn,
in the decisions on this subject. between the cases of
popular insolvency, or mere inability to pal debts
and meet engagements, and of legal, or tetchnical,
insolvency, or a public acknowledgment of that inability; efforts have been made to extricate insol1817.

%question

OP THE UNITED STATES.

veney from the law, when no reason can be given
for it that is not equally applicable to death. The
last illustration in this section is the case of legal
bankruptcy; and it is well known-that, under the
bankrupt system, a bankruptcy cuts out a prior judgInent on which no execution h~s been levied; and
that the judgment creditor is entitled to no more
than his rateable proportion, and mere dividend, in
common with other creditors having no security.
But the reply is, that we have no bankrupt system.
Still. however, a secret act of bankruptcy is within ur law; and, on the score of hardship, is,. at
least, as severe a case as any that can be set up,
WhLn a. mortgagor pays a debt, or it is paid for
him, this is not any debt within the law; because it is
specifically secured, and in legal contemplation, paid,
by the transfer of a certain portion of the debtdr's
real estate, which the creditor holds, as it were,
possession of. It is true, that in order to recover pay,
ment of the money the mortgagee must pursue the
forms and process indicated by law for that purpose; but neither the mortgagor, nor any other person, can prevent his taking possession of the property
mortgaged, otherwise than by paying him the money
for which it is specifically pledged. The difference
between such a lien and that of a mere unexecuted
judgment, is perfectly obvious, and, indeed, is most
emphatically recognised in the case, from Peere Wit.
liams, cited on the other side. The 65th section of
the actof 1799, makes no exceptions. It prohibits
the payment of any debt by an assignee, uzddr thi
penalty of personal accountability. Nor can the cotirt
VOIL. H.

3G

417
1817.
Thelustoa

V.
Smit.

&18
181?.

CASES :IN THE SUPREME COURT,

Incdrporate exceptions into the law.

But whee tOw

;helsson property is no longer in the debtor's hands, as in tho

V.-. cases of a mortgage, a bona fide sale, or Afifa, 10vied, the property is taken out of the debtor's handq;
and the court will not permit the public to carry
heir priority into the posgession~of an intiocont third
person. Up to the period of his assignment, Cram
mond continued in possession of the Sedgely cstate,
At that period, the Thelussons had no specifib powor
or controul over that estate. Unless, therefore, it
became, from that moment, liable to thQ public proference, what is that preference, and what does jt
amount to? To nothing mote, says the opposito
counsel, than a claim upon what is feft after satisfy.-,
ing all incumbrances. If so, the law was framed, (as it
evidently was,) with great pains, to very little purpoct
As to the argument drawn from the suppp.
indeed. 65.

sed admission of counsel arguendo in the case of the
United States v.Fisherit is true, that while the debtor
remains master of his property, the priorlty caunt
dispossess him on the plea of a'po*ular insolyency , pr
inability to pay his debts. It is equally true that the
priority has no pt'etensions to be deemed a lien. 1Bpt
it nevertheless may have force onough to opmqrate
whenever the insolvency is announced, by intercept,
ing the mere psopectivc security of a jiidgmdnt ere.
dito4 without execution. But this is no retrospective opetation. 6. As to the comparative'equition, tho
surety, on assignee,'who pays the bond, on the faith
of this act of congrebs, has at least as'nuch to recommend him on that score, as the mere judgment creditor, of the nature of whose debt nothing is known i

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-nd

419

ince "the various, the decided, and the consist'
117.
ent determinations of different, courts, both state and ,,.ls--m
v
national, in support of this law, there can be no quesCion on which side the hardship preponderates.
Mr. Hopkinson, in reply. 1. It is said that the
Sedgely estate was taken in execution at the suit of
the United States, before Thelusson could levy his
Oekcution; who, therefore, never could have possession of the property, and yet endeavours: to take
it fron the custody and possession of the United
States. I do not apprehend that this is a question
on the right of possession in the property taken in
execution ; nor is it at all material at whose suit the
property was so taken and sold. Neither party ever
bad a possession, either actual or legal. If the possession, asserted to have been held by the United
,States under their execution, gives them a right
which cuts out the antecedentjudgmeni, it is'needless
to resort to the protection and power of the act of
congress to strengthen it; and any other creditor
obtaining the same sort of possession would have
the same right, and might assume the same preference over antecedent judgments. It does. not appear, by the special verdict, when the execution at
the suit of the United States was taken-ouf and levied; and, therefore, there is no foundation in the
record for saying it was done before .Thelusson
could levy his execution.
The decision of the
question must turn on thi. statutory priority of the
United States; and not on their.legalpriority of acAtal possessiorn-they neyer have had any such pos-

420,
i8i-.
s
Thelusson

V.
Smith,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

session, 2. It cannot surely be imagined that tho
assignment of Crammond, made on the 22d of May,
oecause it happened before the expiration of four
days after the date of our.judgment, did, therefore,
per se, interrupt the operation or destroy the advantages of the judgment. If so, then the effect has
been produced by virtue of the assignment, and not
by the provisions of the act of congress. The fact,
however, is not so; the date of the assignment is
material only to fix the period of the insolvency; of
the circumstance which gave right to the preference
of the United States, whatever it is: but whether it
shll take preference of the judgment is the matter
to be dprided by the act of congress, and not by the
legal force or operation of the assignment; which,
to all the purposes of this argument, is the same
whether made three days or thirty days after the
judgment. The time when you may issue an execution
under a judgment is no limitation of the power of the'
judgment to bind -the real estate; otherwise, a sale
made within the four days would be valid and'effectual.
3. The.case of Gibbs v. Gibbs,' was that of ajudg.,
ment creditor without an execution; anotherjudgment creditor with an execution executed; and then
a legal bankruptcy; there being at that time, a regalar bankrupt law in Pennsylvania. The question was
between the two judgments. Did the second judgwnent creditor pretend to take priority by virtue of ita
execttion, or .by that "actual possession" which jw
Dull,
a 37t.

.421

OF THE UNITED STATES.

set up in our case? No! The second judgment crdiz
tor claimed because the words of the bankruptlawexpressly included the case of his opponent,taking away
his right, and did not so include or affect his-own judg-,
ment or right. The question arose under the 30th
section of the bankrupt law, which expressly declares
",that every creditor, having security for his debt by
judgment, &c., whereof there is no execution served
and ex(jcuted upon the lands, goods, and estate of the
bankrupt, &c., shall not be relieved for- any more
than a rateable proportion of their debts," &c. The
creditor, therefore, in that case, whose judgment was
unexecuted, was expressly excluded; and he whose
judgment was executed, was as expressly saved by
the terms of the-act. The reason given for this con9truction of the bankrupt law, does not apply to our
case. It is, that the estate vested in the commissiners, by the act of bankruptcy; but so far is this from
being the effect of an -act of insolvency by the act of
congress, that it has been decided that the right acquired by the United States, by the insolvency, is a
mere right of priority of payment, without even creating 4 lien on the'real estate to secure it. The case of
Moliere's lessee v.Noe, arose under the intestate laws
of Pennsylvania. These laws authorize a sale of the
real estate of an intestate, under certain circumstances, by the administrator, by the order and sanction
ofthe orphan's court. A house and lot of an intestate had been thus sold. Certaih judgments had
been obtained against the intestate in his lifc-time;
k 4 Vall. 450.

1817.

0
Thdawsoi

v.

s

CASES IN'THE SUPREME 'COURT

ahd the question was between these judgment creditors and the purchaser from the administrator
under the order of the orphans' coutrt. The decision is made in favour of the latter, on a review of

1817:
•Thelasgoa

.
Uiftb;
-

the several laws of the state on the'subject, and the
clear intention of the legislature. No principto i4
affirmed at all applicable to our case. The court
say, that the word "debts," in its most general
sense, and as .used in those acts of assembly includes .a judgieut; and that general words will
not be restrained to particular cases, unless io avoid
absurdity, contradiction, or flagrant injustice. They
then observe that neither will occur in their case.
No inconvenience; "because the,lands will sell bet.:
ter for being discharged from liens; and it, makes
no odds to the judgment creditors by whom they are
sold, provided they are sold fairly, and the proceeds
faithfully applied." The court then go on to declare
that in the application )f the proceeds the jzidgment
creditors shall have theirpreference, and all the benefit
of their lien; and that it, would be monstrous injuslice were it otherwise. This case gives no counteriance to the suggestion that in Pennsylvania a judgment is considered as no more than a debt deprived.
of all attributes of lien, and merely such in the course
of distribution. 4. In Pennsylvania it ig the constant
.practice for the mortgajor to keep possession, not
only of the land, but of all the deeds and instruments
of title; that he sells and disposes of the property,
and'delivers possession to the purchaser, who holds
it, subject, indeed, to the mortgage as he would do

OF TwE UNITED. ATATB;

t, a7 jadgment; and in no respect differently; and
thatajudgment is specific enough in its force and operation to have pirferende of a subsequent mortgage;
which a mere debt by simple contract, or by specialty,
would not do. Why, then, shall it not have the same
preference over a mere priority of payment arising
after its-date? 5. The equality to which a bankrupt-,
rvy'reduces :a judgment creditor with the other credi.
tors ofthe bankrupt is greatly relied upon by the de.
fepdant; but it is the effect of the positive provisionxof the statute meeting the case in terms,.and founded,
on th4 peculiar policy of that system; neither of w hich,
is found in the act of congress now under considera;
ion... It'is said there.is no difference, in reason, be
tween the effect9a bankruptcy, and a legal insolvency; and as the former would destroy the right and
lie0of ajudgment, so should the latter. The answer,
is obvious. The bankruptcy does it by virtue of the
express terms and provisions, of the statute; and if
.he same authority can be fohnd in the case ofinsblVency, it will stand on the same reason, or, rather,
thesame right. No case has been shown where t
judgment creditor has, been deprived of his right,
his lien, his interest in the land, his preference, by
cop..truction; by' the use of general teems: and im
thp case of .Moliere's lessee v. Noe, his right'-of
priority-of sitisfac4ion out of the proceeds of thq
estateo -is. expressly recognised, and 'the contrary
4a'driue h ldt0.be "mn, trons injustke."
" _r. ,,,, tice WA

2
423.
Isn.

V.

,

~a 'ro0delvejred.lha opinicmnof Aaramh istb.

4
18i7.
"
"
Thelusson
v.

Simith.

CASESTIN THE SU1'l iE

10OURT

the court, and after stating the faets, proceeded, ag
follows.
Two questions iwere made in the circuit court.
Ist. At what time a judgment nisi on an award of
arbitrators, made under an order of court, binds the
real estate of the defen4ant against whom the award
is made; wnether on the day it is, rendered; or on the
quarto die post, if no excepions be filed; or on the
day when the exceptions, if any are filed, are overruled. 2. If frbm the time when th. judgment nisi
is entered; then whether, in this case, the United
States are entitled. to "be paid in preference to the
judgment creditor?
The first question was not decided by the court
below, and is not contested in this court.
In considering the second question, it will be assuned, for the sake of the argument, that the judgment nisi binds, the real estate of the debtor from
the time it is rendered.
This question did not arise in the cases of tho
United States v. Fisher et al. or in that of the United
States v. Hooe et al.m The point 'decided in those
cases was, that a mere state of insolvency or inability in a debtor to'the United States 'to pay all his
debts, gives no right of preference to the United
States, unless it is accompanied by a volunt'ary assignment o all the property fbr the benefit of his
creditors. There can be little doubt but that the
word insol .ncy, mentioned in the act of 1790, ch,
1 2 Cranch, 3568.

m 3 Cranc), 73,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

35. see. 45., and repeated in the act of 1797, ch. 74.
sec. 5., and of 1799, ch. 128. sec. 65., means a legal
insolvency, which, whenever it occurs, the right of0 .
.preferefnce.arises to the United States, as well as in
the other specified cases to which the acts of 1797
and 1799 have extended -the cases of insolvency.
In this case, the conveyance of Crammond, on the
22d of May, 180,, was of all his property; at
which time he was unable to pay all his debts: it is,
therefor , a case precisely within the law and within
the priniciple decided' by the above cases.
But the question still remains to be de~ided whe.
ther this right of preference which accrued on die
-22d of May can cut out a prior judgment creditor ?
The law declares "that in all cases of insolvency,
.&c. the debts due to the United States shall be first
satisfied, and if the assignees, &c. shall pay any debt
due by the person or estate from whom or for which
they are actirig, previous to the debts due to the
United States from such person or estate being first
duly satisfied, they shall become answerable for the
same in their own:persons and estates." These expressions are as general as any. which could have
been used, and exclude-a'! debts due to Tndividuals,
whatever may be -their dignity. .The assignees are
made personally responsi~le to the United States if
in case of insolvency, they pay any debt previous to
those due to the United States. The law makes no
exception in favour. of prior judgment creditoi's; and
no reason has. been, or we think can be, shown to
warrant this court in making one.
17.H

42-5
1817..
Smith.

,4 6
1817.
Tbelusson

v.
Smith.

VASES IN THE SUPREMB COURT

Exceptions there must necessarily be as to thefunds
out of which the United States are to be satisfied,
but there can be none in relation to the debts due
from a debtor of the United States to individuals.
The United States are to be first satisfied; but then
it must be out of the debtor's estate. If, therefoie,
before the right of preference has accrued to the
United States, the debtor has-made a bona fide conveyance of his estate to a third person, or has mortgaged the same to sectire a debt, or if his property
has been seized under a ft.fa., the property is devested out of the debtor, and cannot be made liable
to. the United States. A judgment gives to tho
judgment creditor a lien on the debtor's lands, add a
preference over all subsequent judgment creditors.
But the act of congregs defeats this preference in
favour of the United States, in the cases specified in
the 65th section of the act of 1799.
The judgment of the circuit court, therefore, is to
be affirmed with costs.

Judgment affirmed.,
A The above is the opinion de- which he was directed to dolivor
livered by Mr. Justit-e WAsujua- as the opinion of this court.
TON, in the circuit court, and

