CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

Otis
V.
Walter.

JUDG.MENT.
This cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record of the circuit court of
the United States for the county. of Washington, and
wasargued by counsel. All which being
seen arid
considered, it is the opinion of this court that there
is'error in the proceedings of the said circuit court,
in this, that the said court refused to'instruct the jury
.on the application of.the counsel for the plaintiff,
that on the facts given in evidence to them, if believed, the plaintiff was entitled to recover in that
action; wherefore it is considered by this court, that
the said judgment of the said circuit court be reversed and annulled, and that the cause be remanded
to the said court to be proceeded in according to law.

(coMMoN LAW.)
OTIS V. WALTER.
Ii seizures under the embargo laws, the law itself is a sufficient justification to the seizing officer whero the discharge of duty is tho
rcal motive, and not the pretext for dotention, and it is not necessary -o show probable cause.
But the embargo act of the 25th of April, 1808, related only to vessels ostensibly bound to some port in the United States, and a seizure after the termination of the voyage is unjustifiable; and no
further detention of the cargo is lawful than what is necessarily dependent on the detention of the vessel.
It is not indispensable to the termination of a voyage that the vessel
should arrive at the terminus of her original destination; but'it may
be.produced by stranding, stress of weather, or any other cause in,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ducing her to enter another port with a view to terminato her voy-

1817.

age bona file.
But if a vessel, not actually arriving atherport of original destination,

Otis

excites an honest suspicion in the mind of the coliecfor that hr

V.

demand of a permit to land the cargo was merely colourable, this
is not a termination of the voyage so as to preclude the right of
detention.

Walter.

to the supreme judicial court -ofthe state
of Massachusetts.
This was an action of trover brought in the state
court, in which Walter, the plaintiff in that court,
recovered of Otis, the defendant in that court, damages for the conversion of sundry articles constituting the cargo of a vessel called the Ten Sisters,
The defendant in the court below, collector of the
port of Barnstable, in Massachusetts, had detained
the vessel under suspicion of an intention to violate
the embargo laws, particularly the act of the
25th of April, 1808, see. 6. anid 11. The vessel
sailed from.Ipswich with a cargo of flour, tar, and
rice, in order to carry the same to Barnstable, or to
a place called -Bass river in Yarmouth; and proceeded to Hyannis, in the collection district of Barnstable. On her arrival there, the master applied to
the collector for a permit to land the cargo, which
was refused by the latter, who 8hortly afterwards
seized and detained the vessel under the abovem~ntioned acts. This detention was given in evidence as a defence to the action under the general
issue, and the chief justice of the supreme court of
Massachusetts instructed the jury "that the said
several matters and things, so allowed and proved,
ERROR

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

20

1$17.
Otis

Otis

V.

were- not sufficient to bar the plaintiff of his said
action, nor did they constitute or amount to any dofence whatever in the action," &c.

Whereupon tho

Walter. jury found a verdict, and the court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff.
Feb, 5th.

The Attorne-General,for the plaintiff in error,
argued, that this case. rell under the principle of that
of Crowell v. M'Fadon,a and it would appear that
the; vessel was in itinere; but that even if this were
not the state of the case, the jury ought to have
been left to make their own inference from the-facts,
and not to have been charged by thIe judge that no
defence whatever was made out.
Mr. Read, for the defendant in error, contended,
that the case of Otis v. Baconb was perfectly in point,
and showed that the vessel, having arrived at 'her
port of discharge, wan no longer within the operation of the embargo laws; and that if theecollector's
defence was not comhpletely made out-if it was, in
any respect, nxaterially defective, it was not made
out at all,

ro. 2st,

Mr. Justice JOHNsON delivered the o~inlon of thi

"court., This was an action of trover, brodght in the
state court of Massachusetts, in which Waiter, the
plaintiff in that court, recovered of Otis damages for
the conversion of rendey articles 'constituting the
cargo of a vessel called the Tenf Sisters.
e;3 Crarch,94.

b 0 Oranch, 689.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

21

Otis, the colleetor of Barnstable, had detained the '1817.
vessel under suspicion of an intention to violate the
einbargo laws. (Act of the 25th of April, 1808, sec.
V.
Walter.
6. and i.)
i has already been decided, in,such cases,' that it
is.not necessary to show probable cause; that the
law confides in the discretion of the collector, and
is, in itself, a sufficient justifijcation, when -the di charge of duty is the realmotive, and not the pretext
for detention. But it has also been decided, that
the law relates only to vessels ostensibly bound to
some port in the United States; that a seizure is
unjustifiable after the termination of a voyage; and
that no further detention of the cargo is lawful than
what is necessarily dependent upon the detention of
the vessel.
In this case there was no ground for charging the
collector with oppression or malversation; and the
only point insited on in the argument was, that she
had actually terminated her voyage. As the clearance is not in evidence in the cause, we are obliged
to take the termini of the voyage from the testimony of the captain, who swears that he sailed from
Ipswich -with a cargo of. tar, flour, and rice, to
carry the same to Barnstable, in'the county of Barnstable, or to a place called Bass river, in Yarmouth,
in said county ;" that he "proceeded to Hyanni.s, -in the district of BarnMstable ; that on his- arrival
there he applied for' a permit *to land, which Was
refused- by the 'collector, who, in a day or two afterwards, seized.the vessel; and detained her -under the
embargo acts." Ipswich lies to the north of the pen-

2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1817.

o'
W.
Walter.

insula which terminates in Cape Cod; the port oil
bay of Barnstable on the north side of that peninsula;
Bass River and Hyannis Bay on the south; all of

them known as distinct places, but all lying within
the county and collection district of Barnstable.
And although Hyannis Bay lies within the'district
of Barnstable; yet to reach it in sailing from Ipswich
you must pass both the towA of Barnstable and the
mouth of Bass River.
The defence- of the collector in the state court
was founded on the authority to detain vested in him
by the act of congress. The instruction of the chief
justice of that state was in these words: "that the
said several matters and things, so allowed and
proved, were not sufficient to bar the plaintiff of his
said action, nor did they constitute or amomnt to any
defence whatever in the action."
Instructions couche;d in such general terms may
serve to embarrass a'court exercising appellate jurisdiction; but it is a mistake to suppose that it precludes such a court from a view of the errors which
may -have been, committed on the trial. It has before beeri decided, that it only obliges this court to
look through the whole cause, and examine if there
be nothing in -it which ought to have called forth a
different instruction or judgment. In this case wq
are of opinion that, conformably to our former decisions, the instruction given cobld only have been
sanctioned on the supposition that the vessel had
actually terminated her voyage. But here it'is contended 'that' this court stand' committed by an ad-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mission in the case of Otis v. Bacon;' that a destina- 1817.
tion to Barnstable is satisfied by an arrival in HyV.
annis Bay.
Walter.
We have looked into the record in that case, and
find that it will support no such inference. It is true
that Mud-hole, the place at which the vessel had arrivedin that case, is in Hyannis Bay. But the question
of fact did not arise, for the collector had acquiesced in the termination of the voyage there, by actually' granting a permit to land. And the grant
of the permit was expressly made a ground, in the
state court, -of the instruction to the jury. Now,
it is not indispensable to the termination of the voyage that the vessel should arrive at the terminus ad
qum she was destined. It may as well be produced by stranding,'by Atress of weather, or by any
other cause inducing her to enter another port,
honestly,'with a yiew to teriminate her voyage. But
'ifb. vessel, not actually arriving at her port of destination, excites an honest suspicion in the mihd of the
collector, that her demand of a permit was merely
colourable, we are of opinion that this can neither
be held to be an actual, or admitted termination of
-the voyage, so as to preclude the right of detention.
Had the destination in this case been generally to
Barnstable, orrthe town of Barnstable, there may
have been some colour of ground for arguing that
her arrival at Hyannis was .the termination of her
voyage; but as the destination was expressly to
Barnstable or Bass -river, within the county of
c 7 Granch, 589.

OASES IN TUE SUPBEME COURTJV

Barnstable, her arrival at one or tbe other of those
"places
was indispensable to the termination of her
Otis
V.
voyage, supposing her really, in fact, to have had
Walter. no ulterior destination.
1817.

But a destination may be colourable, and intended only to mask an ulterior and illegal destination; and hence, we are o(,opinion that, unless the
fact be conceded by some such unequivocal act as
was done by the collector in the.case of Otis v. Bacon,
it is a question which ought to be left in the instruction of the court open to the jury. And that if any
positive instruction un tile subject had been given to
the jury in this cause, it ought to have been in favour
of the defendant, as the arrival in Hyannis Bay would
not have been deemed a legal termination of the
voyage, either on a policy of insurance, a charterparty, bottomry bond, or any other maritime contract.
A majority of the court are- therefore of opinion,
that the court of Massachusetts erred in this case,
and that the judgment ought to be reversed.
Mr. Jiistice STORY did not sit in this cause.
Judgment reversed.

