I it

DF THE UNITED STATES

1817.

The UNITED STATES v. SHELDON.

The Unitciko

stat
V.

Sheldoni
Under the act of the 6th July, 1812, "tb prohibit American vessels
from proceeding toor trading with the enemies of the United States,
and for other purposes," held that living fat oxen, &c. are articles
of provision andmunitions of war, within the true intent and meaning of the act.
Also held, that driving living fat oxen, &c. onfoot is not a transporlaiieo thefeof within the true intent and meaning of the same act.

THis cause was argued 'by the Attorney General, rel. 12,
for the United States, and by Mr. Hopkinsort,for the
defendant.

Mr. Justice

WAsHINGToN

delivered the opinion of Peb. 26w.

the court.,
The defendant, George Sheldon, Was indicted in
the circuit court for the district of Vermont, for
transporting, over land, in November, 1813, a certain
number of fat oxen, cows, steers., and heifers, from a
place in the United States to the province of Lowei
Canada. A special verdict was found which submitted to the court the questions, whether living fat oxen,
cows, steers,, and heifersi are articles. of provision
and munitions of war, and whether driving living fat'oxen, cows, steers, and heifers, on foot, is a transpoltation thereof, within the true intent and meaninog of
the act of N.gress"then in force. The judges being opposed in dpinion upon both these quo'stions,
the cause comes betdre this court upon a certificatQ

"pfsuch disagkement.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COViAT

States
V'.

This indictment was founded on the act of the 6th
of July, 1812; the second section of which declares
41that if any citizen of the United States, or person

She doa.

inhabiting the same, shall transport, or attempt to

1817.
nlee United

transport, over land or otherwise, in any waggon#
cart, sleigh, boat, or otherwise, naval or military stores,
arms or munitions of war, or any articles of provision
from the United States to Canada, &c., the waggon,
cart, sleigh, boat, or the thing by which the said
articles are transported, or attempted to be trans.ported, together with the articles themselves, shall
be forfeited; and the person aiding, or privy to the
same, shall forfeit to the United States a sum equal
in value to the waggon, &c. or thing by which the
said articles were transported, and shall moreover be
considered as guilty of a misdemeanor and liable to
fifie and imprisonment."
In answer to the first question submitted to this
eourt, we are unanimously of opinion that living fat
oxen, &c. are articles of provision and munitions of
war, within the true intent and meaning of the aboverecited act.
The second question is attended with much morQ
difficulty: Is the driving of living fat oxen, &c. a
transportation of them within, the true intent and
meaning of the law?
There is no doubt but that the word transport,
correctly interpreted as well as ii its ordinary acceptation, means to carry, to convey ; and in this sense
it'seems to a majority of the court the legislature intended to use it. The offenue is made to consist il
transporting in any waggon, cart, sleigh, boat, cj

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1817.
,therwise, the prohibited articles. Had the words
' United
or otherwise" beer, omitted,
I it would scarcely ad- The
mit of a doubt, that unless the prohibited articles had states
V
been conveyed on some one of the enumerated vehi- aheldom
cles, no offence would have been committed within the
wbrds or the meaning of the law. What'then is the
'correct interpretation of these expressions, taken in
connection with the other parts of the section ? To
transport an article in a waggon, or otherwise, would
seem necessarily to mean to carry or convey it in
that or in some other vehicle, by whatever 'name it
might be distinguished. If these words ire construed to mean, a removal of the article from one plade
to another otherwise than in a vehicle, it might well
admit:of a doubt, whether a removal in a Vehiclet
other than one of those which are enumerated, would
be a case within the law.
'But so far from this matter being left a doubt by
the law, we find, that when the punishment by way
of forfeiture is prescribed, the words ; or otherwise"
are very plainly construed to meati the thing by whi&
the artices are transported; thus distinguishing be.
tween the thing which transports, and the thing
which is traisported.
It may be admitted, that the mischief is the same,
whether the enemy be supplied with provisions in
the one way or the other; but this affords no good
reason for construing a penal law by equity, so as to
extend it to cases not within the correct and ordinary
meaning of the ezpressioris of the law, particularly
when it ---confirmed by lie interpretatioit Which the
legislature h.- given to the same expressions in the
"tT__

"r*

CASES I1 THE SUPREME COURT

same law. If it were impossible to satisfy the words
v or Qiherwise," except in the Way contended for on
The United.
the part of the United States, there woula be some
States
beldon. reason for giving that interipretation to them. But it
bas been shown that this is not the case.
It was contended by the Attorney Generalthat
these questions were in effect settled in the case of
the United States v; Barber.a But this is clearly Q
mistake. The only question- in that case which waa
referred to this court, was, "whelher fat cattle arcy
provisions or munitions of war ?" The decision of
this court was in the affirmative. But whether the
fat cattle were dead or alive, and if the latter .was to
be intended, whether they were driyen or transport.
ed in some vehicle did not appear, and, of course,
the law arising out .ofthat state of facts was not, and
could not be decided.
Upon the Whole, it is, the opinion of a majority
of this court, that driving living fat oxen, &c.on foot,
is not a transportation thereof, within the true intent
and meaning of the above-recited act of Congress.
181L

Judgment for the defendant.
a 9 Cranch, 243.

