OF THE UNITED STATES.
.plaintif, of certain lands in that provision
state? In delivering the opinion
of tbe court, Mr. Justice Joxsso stated that, "Had the 11th
section of the judiciary Act covered the whole ground of the consti.
tution, there would be much reason for exercising this power in
many cases, wherein some minis..
terial act is necessary to the completion of-an individual right, ariging-under the laws of the United
States, andthe 14th section of the
same act would sanction the issuing of the writ for sueh a purpose.
'Wit, although the judicial power
of the United States extends to
cases arising under the laws of
the tUnted'States, the legislature
has not (bought proper to delegate
Ifeeercise of that power to-its
circuit courts. except in certain
specified cases. When questions
arise underthase laws in the state
courts, and the party who claims
.a rinht or privilege under them is
unsuccissful, an appeal'is given
,p the supreme court, and this

-The Log i

the legislature has
1817.
thought sufficient, at present, for
all the political purpuses intended
The
London
to be answered by the clause of
Packet.
the constitution which relates to
this subject." The power of tho
supreme court to issue writs of
mandhmus to the other courts of
the United States, has been fre.
quently exercised. The United
States v. Peters, 5 Cranc, 115.
Livingston
v. Dorgenois. 7
Cranch, 577. But in the case of
Hunter'v. Martin's lessee, are,
vol. 1, p. 304., the court, in pro.
nouncing its opinion upon its appellate jurisdiction in causes
brought from the highest court of
law or equity of a state, deemed
it unnecessary to give any.apinion
on the question, whether this
court has authority to enforce its
own judgments on appeal, by is.
suing a writ of mandamus to the
state court, as the 'question was
not thought necessarily involved
in the decision of that cause. lb.
36 .

-PACKET. $

fno,'C101im'nt

It is the practice of this court, in prize causes, to hear the cause, in
the first instance, upon the evidence transmitted from the circuit

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

372

court, and to decide upon that evidence whether it ib propori to a]low farther proof.
The London Affidavits to be used as farthet proof in causes of admiralty and marlPacket,
time jurisdiction in this court must be taken by a commission.
1817.

Moch 5th

~

IN the argument of this cause, Mr. Winder, for
the claimant, stated, that there was an affidavit an.,
nexed to the record, which was taken under the okder
for farther proof, in the court below, but which, not
arriving until after the deciee of condemnation wan
pronounced, was ordered by the circuit court, to ba
transmitted, de bene esse, for the consideration of this
couit. He farther stated, that he had qdditional
pr&Qfs, taken since that time, to be used in this.
court; and he asked whether he should now bd per.
mitted to read these proofs, in order to show what
was the nature of the evidence which existed, td
clear awafy any former doubts in the cause.
[Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL. The court is of
opinion that the' affidavit transmitted from the circuit
court 'may be now read. Btit as to the new proof
now offered by the claimant, it is the practice of this
court to hear the cause in the first instance, upon.
the evidence transmitted from the ciruit court, and
to decide upon that evidence whether it isproper tQ
allow farther proof. The new proof cannotitherefore, be now read; but, as.the opposite party wishes
it, the counsel may state the nature, of the proof,
though not the -contents thereof in"dotail, If Jbq

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

"ease shall :ultimately appear entitled to farther
proof, an order will be made for that purpose,]

373 .
1817.
Leaox
V.

Farther proof was ordered in the cause.

]Robert-.

Mlarch 1Oe.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the claimant, offered to read mar& Isth.
aflidavits, as farther proof, which had not been taken
under a commission, But they were rejected by
the court; the cause was continued to the next term;
and the farther proof ordered to be taken under a
commission, according to the rule of court of the
'present' term.
Cause continuedq
a Vide Apim~inx, Note I.

'LENox et al. v. ROBERTS.
Where all the property of the late bank of the United States had been
assigned by a general assignment in trust to assignees, for the purpose of liquidating its affairs, Quxre, Wether any action at law
could he .mpintainedby the assignees, on certain promissory notes,
endosed to, and thq property of the bank, which had not been spe.
cialy assigned nor endorsed to the assignees ?
However this may be, it is.lear that a suit in equity might be main,
tained by the assignees against the parties to the notes.
A demand of payment of a promissory note must be made of the ma14'r
on t4e last day of grace; and where the endorser resides in a

