DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

493

Randon v. Toby.
DAVID RA'.nON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THOIDIAS TOBY.
An agreement by a debLor to apply a certain portion of his crops towards the extinguishment of the debt in consideration of further indulgence, will take a case out
of the statute of limitations, and may be set up in avoidance of the plea byway of
estoppel upon the debtor.
The detendant is not at liberty to complain that the construction of this instrument
was left to the jury, because it was so done at his own request, and because, if the
court had construed it, the construction must have been unfavorable to the defendant.
The bankruptcy of the plaintiff prior to the time when he took the notes payable to
himself was no legal defence to.the action. He was one of the persons authorized
to settle up the insolvent estate, and whether or not he accounted to his creditors
fqr the proceeds was no question between him and the maker of the notes..
The plea that the notes were given for African negroes imported into Texas after
1833 was no legal defence. The creditor had no connection with the person who
introduced the negroes contrary to law. If the negroes bad been declared to be
free, the consideration of the notes would have failed, but the debtor still held
them as slaves, and therefore received the full consideration for his notes.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for Texas.
It was a suit brought by Toby, a citizen of Louisiana, by
way of petition, upon two promissory notes executed by Randon. The notes are stated in the first bill of exceptian. The
reporter will not undertake to trace the history of the sui
d
refers to the opinion of the court for his reasons for not c.s ng
so. The following table will present a summary view of the
condition in which the pleadings were finally placed: 1847, January 4, petition filed.
18'17, February 4, demurrer, plea of limitations, and answer
filed by defendant.
1848, February 10, petition amended.
1848, February 28, answer amended, and says notes given
for purchase of African negroes, &c.
1848, March 11, defendant withdraws part of first plea, and
demurs and excepts to part of petition.
1848, May 15, plaintiff further amends petition.
1848, May 31, defendant further answers plaintiff's amendment, craves oyer, &c.
1848, June 5, defendant ainends two pleas and files three
further answers.
1848, June 8, plaintiff further amends petition.
1849, June 8, defendant amends answer.
1848, June 9, defendant demurs.
1848, June 12, plaintiff further amends petition.
1848, December 14, defendant further amends answer.
1848, December 15, plaintiff files exceptions to demurrers
and pleas.
VOL. xI.
42

494

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

1848, December 19' defendant further amends answer.
1848, December 19, defendant amends again.
184S, December 22. plaintiff files two demurrers.
1848, December 23, trial.
The trial is thus stated in the record :
"And thereafter, to witon the 23d day of December, in the
year of our Lord 1848, being a day of the December term of
the said court, the following judgment was rendered in the said
causL, to wit:"TiorAs

ToBy V.

DAVID

RANDON.

"This day came the parties aforesaid by their attorneys, and
upon motion of defendant by attorney, it is ordered that he
have leave to amend his answer herein, by filing pleas marked
numbers eleven, twelve, *thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen; and
thereupon, plaintiff excepted to said pleas, and said except ons
were argued; and becaus; it seems to the court, that the exceptions to pleas fiumber eleven and thiteen are well taken, it
is ordered that the same be allowed; but because, as to pleas
number twelve, fourteen, and fifteen, the said exceptions are
not wcll taken, it is ordered that the same be disallowed; and
on further motion of said defendant by counsel, it is ordered
that he have leave to amend his said answer, by filing pleas
sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, and nineteen, and thereupon the
plaintiff excepted to said pleas, aid said exceptions were argued; and because it seems to the court that the exceptions to
pleas sixteen, eighteen, and nineteen are well taken, it is ordered
that the same be allowed; but becaus9, as to plea nunmber
seventeen, the said exceptions are not w ,ll taken, it is ordered
that the same be disallowed; and the parties being now at
issue, it is ordered that a jury come here, &c.; whereupon came
a jury of lawful mnen, to wit, F. S. Stockdale, Aidan Pullam,
James L. Smithers, John P. Roan, James G. Heard, Israel
Savage, J. 1-. McGill, J. S. Stafferd, Angus McNeill, Frederick
Raukin, Augustus Hotchkiss, and J. C. Shaw, who, being
sworn well and truly to try the issue joi.ted, upon their oath
dq say, ' We, the jury, find the issues joined in favor of the
plntitff, and assess his damages, by reason of the breaches of
promise in the petition mentioned, to $ 5,758.04.'
' And thereupon, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, and
before the jury aforesaid had refired, the said defendant by his
said attorneys excepted to several dpinions of the court given
upon the trial of the said cause, and tendered eight bills of exceptions, which were received, signed, and sealed by the court,
and ordered to be made part of the record in-the said cause,
and are in the words and figures following, to wit :-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

495

Randon v. Toby.

(These bills of exceptions filled seventy-eight pages of the
-printed record. The following is an abstract of them.)
First Bill.
"Be it remembered, that by the rules of this court the practice and proceedings on the common law side thereof are governed by the laws and rules regulating practice and proceedings
in the courts of the State of Texas, except so far as the .ame
may, by some order of this court, or by the laws of the
United States, be altered or modified; and that, by the laws
of the said State, proceedings are by petition and answer, or
plea or pleas, and, if the plaintiff thinks it proper, a special
replication to any of the pleas of the defendant may, both by
the practice of the courts of the said State, as well as by the
general orders of this court, be filed with the effect of a like
replication at common law, but no replication is required by
the rules; and this cause came on to be tried before the court
and jury, on the petition of the plaintiff as amended, and the
following pleas of the defendant, which on argument were
adjudged sufficient, and were sustained against the exceptions
or demurrers of the plaintiff, to wit, pleas numbered two, three,
four, five, six, eight, nine, ten, twelve, fou:-teen, fifteen, and
seventeen; the following pleas, numbered seven, thirteen, sixteen, and eighteen, having been on argument adjudged insuffieient. And on the trial of the said cause, the plaintiff, to sustain the issues joined, gave in evidence. the two promissory
notes sued on, in words and figures following, to wit: -

$ 1,781-.
Galveston, June 21, 1841.
"1Twenty-four months from date, I promise to pay to the
order of Thomas Toby, Esq., one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-one and A dollars, Value received, with interest from
the 14th of April, 1841, until paid.
D. RANDON.'
"

$1,781-A-.
Galveston, June 21, 1841.
"'Twelve months from date, I promise to pay to Thomas
Toby, Esq., or order, one thousand seven hundred and eightyone and -'", dollars, value-received, "vith interest from the
14th of April, 1841, until paid.
D. RANDON.
"'

"'Which promissory note was marked 2.
"The plaintiff then offered in evidence the following instrument in writing, marked No. 3:"'This instrument of March 14th, 1844, witnesseth, that
whereas MeKinney & Williams of Galveston, and Thomas
F. McKinney, agent of Thomas Toby, of New Orleans, hold
several notes drawn by me, and past due, and Thomas F.

496

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby,

McKinney, some two years since, did agree for McKinney &
Williams and the said Thomas Toby to g-ant me further indulgence ori.said notes over and above the time of their maturity, and I'did then say, promise, and agree that I would deliver to him, the said Thomas F. McKinney, each and every
year, all the one half of every crop of cotton in payment, first
of the amount due the said McKinney and Williams, if there
be any thing due them over and above the amount of purchase
of negroes bought of them, and then in extinguishment of said
amount of purchase of negroes, of which my note to said Toby
is part of consideration ; and I further agree and oblige myself,
that any surplus I may have from the proceeds of the other
half of my crops, over and above my wants, exclusive of any
speculations or purchase of negroes, shall also be turned over as
above; and I further bind and obligate myself, my heirs, assigns, and administrators, that no advantage shall be taken, or
an. plea of statute of limitations be made, to avoid the payment of said notes, but they shall be and remain in m, full force
D. RFANDON.'
and effect as though they were renewed.
" To the admissibility of which said writing, the defendant,
by his counsel, objected, as not sufficient to take the said
promissory note, marked 2, out of the statute of limitations.
But the court overruled the said objection, made by the counsel of the defendant, and permitted the said writing to be read
in evidence to the jury; to which opinion and ruling of the
court, permitting the said writing to be read in evidence to the
jury, the defendant, by his counsel, excepted, and tendered this
his first bill of exceptions, which he prays may be signed,
sealed, and made a part of the record in the cause, which is
done accordingly.
"JOHN C. WATROUS.

" Saturday, December 23d, 1848."
Second Bill.
"Be it remembered, that after the jury were sworn to try the
issues in this cause, the plaintiff, to maintain the said issues on
his part, introduced the evidence contained in the bill of exceptions number one, heretofore filed in this cause ; and thereupon
the said plaintiff closed the evidence on his part; and the -;aid
defendant, to maintain the said issues on his part, gave in evidence the deposition of John Randon, as follows, to wit: "' The witness was present at the house of David l1andon,
about the 1st of November, 1846, when Ephraim McLean
came there with a power of attorney from Thomas F. McKinney, authorizing the said McLean to settle all business between the said David Randon and the said Thomas F. M-cKin-

DECEMBER

TERM,

1850.

497

Randon v. Toby.

ney, and the firm of McKinney & Williams, and for the purpose of so settling such business, and the said McLean stated
that such was the purpose of his visit. After the settlement
between Randon and McLean was agreed upon, witness caine
to Galveston at the instance of the said David Randon, for the
purpose of receiving from Thomas F. McKinney a receipt in
full of all claims held by the said McKinney against the said
David Randon, and also a cotton obligation. The said McLean
knew that the respondent was coming, and what he was coming for, and knew that the respondent came to obtain the receipt and the cotton obligation, and the said McLean consented thereto.
" ' When I arrived in Galveston, I remained a day or two,
and did not see McKinncy; during the time I.saw McLean,
and he handed me the receipt; I asked him where-the obligation was, and he told me he had n't got it. I told him that I
must have it, because I was instructed to get that particularly
by my uncle, David Randon. I rode out to Mlr. MeKinney's
house, and demanded of him the cotton obligation, which he
held against David Randon, and which I was requested to get.
As near as I recollect, he said to me, " I remember 'the obligation, but it is either lost or mislaid; but it is of no consequence
in this settlement, for the receipt which I have given McLean
for. you includes all." I rather insisted on his looking for it,
but he said he would n't know where to look for it, as he had
been sick for some time, and his papers were mislaid. He
seemed to have no objections in the least to giving up the obligation, if he could have found it; he did not suggest any
rights which he or any one else had, growing out of the said
obligation. Mr. McKinney said the receipt included all, and
that the obligation was of no consequence, therefore, to David
Randon. David Randon sent to MeKinney all the African
negroes he had, except two ; I think he sent twenty-one ; he retained two ; one he retained in accordance with the settlement,
and the other he purchased and gave his note for.'
"C9ross-examination.-' The settlement, so far as witness knew,
was not reduced to writing ; he was present a part, but not all,
of the time when the negotiation between Randon and McLean
for a settlement was going on; McLean delivered to Randon
some notes, but nothing else, so far as witness knew; .did not
know what notes they were; has heard from David Rdndon
that they were his notes, held by Thomas F. McKinney; witness demanded of Thomas F. McKinney the cotton obligation;
did not demand the Toby notes.'
" The counsel for the plaintiff objected to the reading of the
foregoing testimony of John Randon.

42'

498

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

"And the said defendant, further to maintain the said issues
on his part, offered in evidence the following instrument in
writing, and to prove the signature to the same tobe the hatidwriting of Thomas F. McKinnev "' Galveston, November 11th, 1846.
"'Know all men by these presents, that a settlement made a
few days since with David Randon, by E. McLean, representing MbKinney & Williams, and Thomas F. McKinney, was a
full and final settlement of all notes and accounts held by the
said firm, or the said McKinney, against said Randon; and
the said McKinney & Williams do hereby grant to him, the
said Raahdon, a full release and acquittance of all notes and
accounts, according to the tenor of said settlement; it being
understood that there is now no unsettled note or account between us, except some land obligations of small value, and an
obligation given to E. McLean, in the name of Thomas F.
MeKinney, for $ 700, or a return of a negro man, Sam, or one
of equal value, which obligation bears date 9th November,
1846.

THoMAs

F. MCKINNEY,

For himself and 31cKinney 4f Witliams.'
"Whereupon the counsel for the said plaintiff moved the
court to exclude the said instrument in writing from going to
the jury as evidence in this cause, because the same was not
pertinent to any of the issues therein; and the court sustained
the objection of the said counsel for the plaintiff, and excluded
the said instrument of writing from going to the jury; to which
opinion of the court, sustaining the said objection, and excluding the said instrument in writing so offered as evidence, the
defendant, by his counsel, excepted; and tendered this his second
bill of exceptions, which lie prays may be signed, sealed, and
made part of the record in this cause, and the same is now
done accordingly.
"JOHN C. WATRoVs.
"&turday, December 23d, 1848."
Third Bill.
"Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause, after the
jury were sworn to try the issues joined, the plaintiff and de*fendant, to maintain the said issues on their respective parts,
introduced the evidence contained in the former bills of exceptions, numbers one and two; and thereupon the said defendant, further to maintain the said issues on his part, gave in
evidence a series of accounts which were proved by Thomas
F. McKinney to be accounts current in the handwriting of the
clerks of the firm of McKinney-& Williams, and of Thoma3

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

499

Randon v. Toby.

F. McKiiiney; the accounts, rendered the 30th of August,
1846, showed a balance at that date in favor of McKinney &
Williams against David Randon, of $ 11,997.42; and a balance
at the same date in favor of David Randon against Thomas
F. McKinney, of $ 2,648.51, which was transferred to the credit
of David Randon with the firm of Me;Kinney & Williams, and
left the balance due them from Randon $ 9,348.91."
(These accounts extended over ten pages of the printed record, and Thomas F. McKinney was then examined on the part
of the defendant. Being cross-examined by the plaintiff.)
"' To what note or notes, from David Randon to Thomas
Toby, the instrumcntin writing, dated March 14th, 1844, and.
filed with the plaintiff's amendment to his petition, marked
No. 3, and fully set forth in the bill of exceptions number
one, referred. And the said Thomas F. McKinney thereupon
stated, and gave in evidence before the jury, that the said writing referred to both of the promissory notes sued on, being the
same filed with the amended petition, marked 1 and 2, and
fully set forth in the bill of exceptions No. 1, heretofore filed in
this cause. Whereupon the counsel for the defendant insisted
before the court, and moved the court that the said evidence of
the said McKinney should be ruled out and withdrawn from
the jury, becauise the same was contradictory to the. said writing marked No. 3, as aforesaid, which it pretended to explain, - the said writing referring only to one note from David
Randon to Thomas Toby.
"But the court. overruled the said motion of the said defendant's counsel, and permitted the said evidence of the said
McKinney to remain before the jury. To which opinion and
ruling of the court overruling the said motion, and permitting
the said evidence to remain before the jury; the said defendant,
by his counsel, excepted, and tendered this his third bill of .exceptions, which he prays may be signed, sealed, and made a
part of the record in this cause; which is done accordingly.
".JOHrN C. WATROUS.
"Saturday, December 23d, 1848."
Fourth Bill.

"Be it remembered, that oq the trial of this cause, after the
jury were sivorn to try the issue joined, the plaintiff and defendant, to maintain the said issues on their respective parts, gave
the evidence which is contained in the bills of exceptions,
numbers one, two, and three, heretofore filed in this cause;
whereupon the said plaintiff, further to maintain his said issues,
examined Thomas F. McKinney, who gave in evidence as
follows: 11-

500

SUPREME
-andon

COURT.
-. Toby.

(The evidence of McKinney related to the alleged settlement and exhibit No. 3; and defendant then offered a copy of
the record in bankruptcy of Toby in Louisiana. This record
occupied forty-eight printed pages.)
" And the defendant offered evidence to prove that the
Thomas Toby therein named was the plaintiff in this cause;
but the counsel for the plaintiff objected to the introduction of
such copy as evidence before the jury, as being insufficient to
sustain any of the pleas of the said defendant; and such objection was sustained by the court, and the copy aforesaid was
not allowed to be introduced as evidence on the part of the
said defendant; to which opinion of the court, sustaining the
said objection made by the counsel for the plaintiff, and refusing to allow the said copy to go to the jury as evidence, the
defendant, by his counsel, excepted, and tendered this his fourth
bill of exceptions; which he prays may be signed, sealed, and
made part of the record in this cause, and the same is now
done accordingly.
"JOHN C. WATROUS.

" Satu)'day, December 23d, 1848."
Fifth Bill.
"Be it remembered, that after the jury were sworn to try the
several issues in this cause, the plaintiff, to maintain the said
issues on his part, gave in evidence the testimony stated in full
'in the former bills of exceptions; and thereupon the defendant,
also to maintain the said issues on his part, gave in evidence
the testimony stated in full in the former bills of exceptions.
And the defendant there closed the testimony on his part.
"And thereupon the plaintiff, further to maintain the issues
joined on his part, gave in evidence the deposition of Ephraim
McLean, as follows "' In the settlement between David Randon and McKinney
& Williams, I had no authority to settle any notes drawn by
David-Randon in favor of Thomas Toby, nor did I know that
there were any such notes in existence at the time of said settlement. I cannot now state all that was embraced in the
settlement so made by me; there were a great many transactions between the parties, David Randon and McKinney &
Williams, of from four to five years' standing.'
" The said plaintiff then introduced as a witness Thomas
M. League, and thereupon asked and demanded of the said
League ' to state to the jury what he knew about 'the existence
of slavery for life in Africa.' To which question by the aid
plaintiff's colinsel to the said League, the said defendant, by
his couisel, objected; because the said evidence was not prop-

DECEMBER T.ERM,

1850.

501

Randon v. Toby.
erly admissible under any allegation in the pleadings in the
said cause; because the said question did not propose any
proper and legal manner of proving the existence of slavery
for life in Africa; and because it did not appear that the
said Thomas I. League was a person qualified to prove such
facts. But the court overruled the objection of the defendant's counsel to the said question by the plaintiff to the said
Thomas Al. League,.and permitted the same to be put to the
said League, and answered as evidence in this cause before
the jury.
" To which opinion and ruling of the court, permitting the
said question to be put to the said League, and answered as
evidence in this cause before thq jury, the defendant, by his'
counsel, excepted, and tendered this his fifth bill of exceptions,
and prays that the same may be signed, sealed, and made a
part of the record in this cause; which is done accordingly.
"JOHN C. WATRous.
" Saturday, December 23d, 1848."
Sixth Bill.
" Be it remembered, that after the jury were sworn to try
the several issues in the said cause, the plaintiff, to maintain the said issues on his part, introduced the evidence contained in the former bills of exceptiop; and thereupon the defendant also introduced the evidence contained in the former
bills of exception, and the plaintiff thereafter introduced the
evidence of Thomas AT. League, as follows :" Witness has made two voyages to the coast of Africa,
the first in the year 1834, the second in the year 1835, and remained on the coast each time about six months. Witness was
observant and inquiring in regard to the customs and habits
and condition of the people; knows that slavery existed in all
parts of Africa where he landed, except in Liberia. A large
proportion of the people were slaves. Some masters held great
numbers; the slavqry which existed was a slavery for life, and
was of the most despotic and arbitrary character.
Witness considers himself as under" Cross-examined.-I
standing very well the customs and conditions of the Africans
among whom he was. Witness did not touch upon the Gold
Coast; knows nothing whatever of the Gold Coast or Lucame
tribe of Africans; witness was in Liberia, and upon the Slave
Coast, and upc' the Grain Coast. Besides, the coast of Africa
runs a good deal east and west in that portion of it. It was
sometimes the case that negroes who were captured in battle
were brought from the interior of the country to the African
coast and sold.

502

SUPREME

COURT.

Randon v. Toby.

Witness would not feel himself qualified to give information or advice as to the laws which exist among the Africans,
but he well knows the habits, customs, and institutions of the
country, for he was observant and made them his study, and
feels himself qualified -to testify in relation to them.'
"Upon the trial of this cause, the counsel for the plaintiff and
defendant relied upon certain laws and parts of laws and constitutions of Spain, of the United Mexican States, of the State
of Coahuila and Texas, and of the Republic of Texas, copies of
the oiiginal of which, or correct translations, here follow "(Then followed a decree of the king of Spain and the
Indies, December, 1817, and the other laws mentioned above,
and the bill of 6xceptions proceeded thus:-)
" All of which laws and parts of laws and constitutions are
to be considered as referring to and making part of the evidence in the said cause; and after introducing the same, the
parties closed their testimony in this cause.
" Whereupon the counsel for the defcndant moved the court
to instruct the jury as follows, that is to say:
"First. That the instrument dated March 14, 1844, does not
itself amount in law to an acknowledgment of the justice of
any particular claim, and cannot remove the bar of the act of
limitations to either of the particular notes now sued on.
" Second. That if the jury believe, from the testimony, that
the negroes, for the purchase of whom the notes now sued on
were given, were Africans imported into Cuba in the year
1835, and brought from Cuba to Texas in the same year, for
the purpose of being held or sold as slaves, they will find for
the defendant.
"Third. That if the jury believe, from the testimony, that
the negroes, for the purchase of whom the notes now sued on
were given, were imported into Texas before the adoption of
the constithtion of the republic of Texas; and if it has not
been proved that they were slaves for life immediately before they were so brought to Texas, and also that they w.,ere
in bondage at the time of the adoption of the constitution,
and also that they were the bond fide property of the person
then holding the same, then the jury will find for the defendant.
"Fourth. That the proof of bona fide property in the persons of color referred to in the constitution of the republic of
Texas, is only a bill of sale or some legal conveyance and possession under it, and that mere proof of possession and
acquiescence on the part of those held as slaves is not sufficient proof of property.
"Fifth. That if the jury believe, from the testimony, that
the negroes, for th6 purchase of whom the notes now sued

DECEM1BER TERM, 1850.

503

Randon v. Toby.

upon were given, were. brought, to Texas in the year 1835,
then, unless it is also proved to their satisfaction that the same
negroes were lawfully held in bondage as indentured servants
at the time of the adoption of the constitution of the republic
of Texas, the constitution did not make them slaves, and the
jury will find for the defendant.
,1 Sixth. That if the jury believe, from the testimony, that
the negroes, for the purchase of whom the notes now sued on
were given, did not voluntarily emigrate to Texas, or were not
brought to Texas by some person emigrating there with them,
but were imported in the course of traffic in negroes, and for
the purpose of such traffic, in the year 183.5, then the constitution did not make them slaves, and the jury will find for the
defendants.
" Seventh. That if the jury believe, frbm the testimony, that
the negroes, for the purchase of whom the notes now sued on
were given, were brought from Africa to Cuba for the purpose
of traffic, and to be sold as slaves, sinecthe year 1821, then it
makes no difference whether they were before held as slaves
for life in Africa or not.
"Eighth. That proof of a custom iqAfrica to hold negroes
as slaves, vithout proof of any law authorizing this custom,
or proof that the nations or tribes in Africa have no laws, is
not sufficient to show that such negroes were slaves'for life.
"Ninth. That proof that slavery exists in other nations or,
tribes in Africa affords no legal presumption, in the absence of
express proof, that slavery exists in the Gold Coast or Lucame
tribe; and that the presumption is that the members of that
tribe are freer"
4"Tenth. That if the jury believe that the instrument dated
March 14th, 1844, refers alone to notes held against the defendant by Thomas F. Mc.Kinney, and if they believe that, at
the time of making said instrument, the said McKinney did
not actually hold the notes now sued on, then the said instrument does not refer to either of said notes, and cannot take
either out of the statute of limitations.
"But the court refused to give the said instructions to the
jury.
'1
" To which opinion of the court refusing the said -instructions, the said defendant, by his counsel, excepted, and tendered this his sixth bill of exceptions, which he prays may be
considered %s applicable to the refusal of each and all of said
instructions, and be signed, sealed, and made-a part of the record in the cause; and the same is done accordingly.
"CJOHN C. WATROUS.

" Saturday, December 23d 1848.'

504

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

,Seventl Bill.
"Be it remembered, that after the jury were sworn to try
the several Issues in this cause, the plaintiff, to maintain the
said -issues on his part, gave in evidence to the jury the testiinony stated in full in the fornier bills of exceptions; and thereupon the defendant, to maintain the. said issues on his part,
gave in evidence the testimony also stated in the former bills
o' exceptions.
" Whereupon the counsel for the defendant moved the court
to instruct the jury- as fdllows, that is to say:
"F irst. That jf the jury believe, from the testimony and from
the instrument dated March 14, 1844, that the said instrument
only refers to-one note given by the defendant to the plainfiff,
and may refer to the first of the notes set foril in the petition
as well as to the second; and that it is uncertain to which it
particularly refers, they will"not apply it to either, and will find
for the defendant as to the first note.
" Second. That if the jury believe, from the testimony, that it
Was agreed between Thomas F. MeKinney and the detfndant,
at the time of the settlement between ther in November, 1846,
that the instrument dated JMarch 14, 1844, was.to be given up
to the defendant, and that at that time, the said MeKinney was
authorized to act as agent of the plaintiff with reference to the
settlement of the notes now sued on; then the jury will consider such an agreement as an entir6 discharge and release of
the defendant from- any promise expressed in the said instrument or to be implied from it, and as entirely cancelling that
instrument for the purposes of this suit, and they will find for
the defendant as to the first note.
"And the court indeed gave the said instructions, but also,
in connection therewith, and in addition thereto, instructed the
jury as follows, that is to say:
"First. That whether the said instrument referred to one or
both notes or not, and to which it did refer, were questions of
fact for the jury to determine ; and if they found that the said
instrumeht referred to that note which would otherwise have
been barred by the act of limitations,. they would consider it as
removing that bar.
" Second. That, notwithstanding what was said iii the second
instruction hereinbefore set forth,lif. Thomas F. McKinney was
not authorized by the plaintiff to surrender to the'defendant
the instrument dated March 14, 1844, then his agreement to
surrender it, if he made such an agreement in the settlement of
his individual transactions, did not prejudice the right of the
plaintiff to the possession, production, and effect of such instrument, or prevent its acting as a l6gal bar to the plea-of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

505

Randon v. Toby.

act of limitations; and if the said McKinney had surrendered
the paper without authority from Toby, Toby could have given
notice to produce the paper at the trial; and, if it had not been
produced, could have gone into parol proof of its contents.
" To which opinion of the court, giving the said first-mentioned instructions, and also giving the qualifications and additions immediately preceding, the said defendant, by his counsel, excepted, and tendered this his seventh bill of exceptions,
which he prays may be considered as applicable to each of the
said instructions, and be signed, sealed, and made part of the
record in the cause; which is done accordingly.
"JOHN C. WATROUS.

"Salurday, December 23d, 1848."
Eightlt Bill.
"Be it remembered, that after the jury were sworn to try
the several issues in this cause, the plaintiff, to maintain the
said issues on his part, gave in evidence the testimony stated
in full in the former bills of exceptions; and thereupon the defendant, to maintain the said issues on his part, gave in evidence the testimony stated in full in the former bills of exceptions. Whereupon the court instructed the jury, among other
things, as follows, that is to say:
"1First. That the constitution of the republic of Texas, in the
'general provisions,' section ninth, by the words therein used,
slaves for life previously to their emigration to. Texas,' does
not necessarily mean I slaves for life'immediately before their
emigration to Texas. [And that the court have no right to
put a word into the constitution; that the constitution must
be construed as it is, and that the constitutional provision
means, that if a man had been a slave for life previous to the
time at which he emigrated to Texas, and was held in bondage in Texas at the time the constitution was adopted, and
was held in bondage under such circumstances that he would
have been the slave of the person so holding him, if slavery
existed by law, then the constitution makes him a.slave for
life.] The last part in brackets was not specially excepted to,
and it is here inserted by order of the court, against the wish
and the opinion of the counsel for the defendant, who regard it
as no 'part of this bill.
" Second. That the Gold Coast, the Grain Coast, and the
Slave Coast are inconsiderable portions of Africa; and that if
it has been proved that slavery exists in one of those portions,
the jury may reasonably infdi its existence in the others, in the
absence of all other -proof upon the subject. To which opinof the court, giving the said instructions to the jury, the deVOL. xI.

43

"5@6

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

fendantI by his counsel, e.xcepted, and tendered this his eighth
bill of exceptions, which he prays may be considered as applicable to each of the said instructions, and may be signed,
sealed, and made part of the record in this cause; which is
done accordingly.
"JOHN C. WATROUS.

"&aturday, December 23d, 1848."
The verdict and judgment were in favor of the plaintiff, for

$ ,758.04.
Upon the above exceptions the case came up to this court,
and was argued by Mr. Harris and Mr. Tohnson, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Bibb, for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points.
-. We conceive it would be difficult to give any valid reasons
for the decision of the court in sustaining the exceptions to
Pleas numbered eleven, thirteen, sixteen, and eighteen. By
reference to these it will be seen, among other things, tha
they state that the plaintiff's portion of the purchase-money of
these negroes was, in 1840, included in a note executed by
the defendant, and made payable to lcKinney & Williams;
and that while this note was in existence, the said plaintiff
under the insolvent law of Louisiana, made, among other
things, a cession of his interest in this note for the benefit of
his creditors; that it was accepted by the court and by his
creditors, and that syndics were appointed to take charge of
said effects; that the notes sued on were given subsequently
to said cession, and for the purchase-money of the said negroes; that they were accepted by said plaintiff in frdud of the
laws of Louisiana, and of the rights of the creditors of said
plaintiff, and of the rights of this defendant; and that when
said notes were made and delivered, the knowledge of said
cession was fraudulently withheld from this defendant; and
that said notes were given without consideration.
To show that the positions taken in these pleas were correct,
and the pleas themselves were valid, reference is made to Levy
v. Jacobs et al., 12 La. Rep. 109; Messes Syndics v. Yarborough et al., 11 La. Rep. 531. These authorities show that,
when a cession is made by an insolvent debtor, all his property
and rights are tratnsferred to his creditors,, whether they be
placed in his schedule or not.
After the surrender and appointment of syndics, the ceding
debtor has Ao longer any capacity to appear in court in relation to the property surrendered. Molntire v. Whiting, 7 La.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

W

Randon v. Toby.

Rep. 273. Rle loses the capacity of instituting suits. Good.
win v. Chesneau, 4 N. S. 103. The sale by him of property
not placed on the inventory is a nullity, and will not support
prescription. Duplessis v. Roulet et al., 11 La. Rep. 345.
Where he is defendant in the court below, he cannot even
appeal in regard to transferred property. Knight & Callender
v. Debtors, 10 La. Rep. 22$. See Chitty on Contracts, 196.
These authorities, we think, show that the exceptions to
these pleas ought not to have been sustained.
The proceedings in Louisiana passed Toby's title to personal property and debts situated in Texas. See Story's Conflict of Laws (ed. 1846), §§ 420; 421. The first of these sections (420) shows that the assignee could maintain an action in
Texas in his own name. (See also note 2 to this section.)
Assignees or syndics of a f5reign bankrupt may sue. Alivon v. Furnival, 1 Cromp., Mees., & Rosc. 296. See also Sto"ry's Conflict of Laws, § 398, 399, 35.5, 566, 353 a;: Cook v.
Lansing, 3 McLean, 571.
The execution of these notes did not discharge the original
debt. Chitty on Contracts, 767, and note; Smith's Mercantile
Law, 529, and note; Muldon v. Whitlock, 1 Cowen, 306. See
also Glasgow v. Stevenson, 6 N. S. (La. Rep.) 567.
On the part of the plaintiff in error, it will be further contended, that the District Court erred,I. In submitting exhibit 3 to the jury, to be construed by
them; we contend that it should have been construed by the
court. See 1 Starkie's Ev. 463; Morrell v. Frith, 3 Mees. &
Wels. 402; 8 Car. & Payne, 246; 1 Bing. 266; Snook v. Mears,
5 Price, 636; Clarke v. Dutcher, 9 Cowen, 678; Chapin v.
Warden,'15 Vermonti 560.
II. Said instrument was not such an acknowledgment of
the justice of adebt as is required in order to take a case out
of the operation of the statute of limitations.
Exhibit 3 amounts only to a contract not to plead the statute of limitations. See Warren v. Walker, 23 Maine, 453.
IIL Said instrumint (exhibit 3) was not an acknowledgment of any debt or note, according to its tenor, and could not
take such debt or note out of the statute of limitations, or enable a party to recover on it. It was merely a promise to pay a
debt in a particular vay, viz. by delivering an amount of cotton annually. And we contend that the plaintiff cannot make
said instrument available in this suit; for, as a contract, it departs from the original note, and cannot sustain it. It amounts
in itself to a substantive contract, and controls the rights of the
Elaintiffs. See Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 362; and Angell on
imitations, ch. 20; see also ch. 21,. on Conditional Acknowl-

OSUPREME

COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

edgments, This was a restficted acknowledgment or promise.
It was a departure from the note, and the obligee cannot use
it for the mere purpose of acknowledgment. He cannot take
it as the contract of the defendant only.
Again, a party is entitled to recover only when he proves the
existence of his claim or debt; a plaintiff is never permitted to
recover, when the proof leaves the matter uncertain as to
whether the debt is due or not; and in this case, if we admit
that exhibit 3 refers to one or the other of the notes sued on, still,
we contend, it fully appears, from the face of the instrument,
that it refers to not more than one of them, and it is utterly
uncertain to which it really does refer. The same argument
that might be used to show that it referred to one could, word
for word, be used to show that it referred to the other. Hence
we contend that it cannot be applied to the first note, so as to
take that out of the operation of the statute; for it amounted
to no proof that this was the note to which it related. Being
thus indefinite, it ought not to have been admitted as evidence.
See Angell on Limitations, 254-.257; Bailey v. Crane, 21
Pick. 323; Stafford v. Bryan, 3 Wend. 532; Moore v. Bank
of Columbia, 6 Peters, .86; Clarke v. Dutcher,.9 Cowen, 678;
Holmes v. Green, 1 Starkie, 397.
.IV. Said instrument was not admissible, because it was a
promise to pay or to deliver cotton to Thomas F. McKinney,
ad not to Thomas Toby, the plaintiff.
V. Thomas F. McKinney, to whom this instrument was
given, for" a valuable consideration, agreed that it should be
given up to Randon 'and discharged. This, we contend, is
proved by the testimony of John Randon; and the court, we
think, erred in instructing the jury that special authority from
Toby to McKinney to release said instrument was, necessary;
and unless he was Toby's agent for this purpose, his discharge
of the instrument divested Toby of no right under it. It
amounted-to a contract, new, distinct, and substantive. It was
made witYThomas F. McKinney; he was the party to it, and
we contend that he bad a right to release it, unless Randon
knew that- his authority had ceased, and that he was acting
fraudulently; and we contend that his contract to give it up
vacated all rights under it. The presumption was that McKinney continued to act as the agent of Toby until Rdndont
was notified to the contrary.. See Story oirAgency, ch. 15, p.
493; Chitty on Contracts, 780.
McKinney's testimony shows that this instrument was given
to him; that he then held the notes sued on; that it was a
promise to him, and, so far as Toby was concerned, he had obtainedit gratuitously and officiously.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

500

itandon v. Toby.

VL It is clear from the law of Spain, contained in, the transcript, that, had these negroes been slaves in Africa (of which
there is certainly no proof), still they would have become free
on their arrival in Cuba. -Then they contined free, unless they
were made slaves by the constitution of the late republic of
Texas; and in order that this should have occurred, three
things must have existed, viz. :-1st, they must have been
slaves for life previous to their emigration to Texas; 2d, they
must have been held in bondage when the constitution was
adopted; 3d, they must have been "the bond fide property of
the person so holding them." Now, in the first place, we contend that-these negroes were free when they were exported
from Cuba to Texas. In the second place, we contend that
the constitution means only to make those persons slaves who
were lawfully held in bondage; it could not be otherwise than
that these were tortuously held in bondage. And, in the third
place, they being free in Cuba, they could by no possibility
whatever, either on that island or in Texas, have become
,,slaves for life; anid' therefore could not have become the bond
fide property of the person holding them. Besides, the term
"emigration," used in the constitution, could not have been
intended to mean persons who were imported into Texas for
traffic, either mediately or immediately, from the coast of Africa.
The whole object and intention of this clause of the constitution seems to have been, to make such as were slaves for life in
the United States when they emigrated slaves in Texas. This
view of the subject is, we think, sustained by the whole section,
and is very strongly sustained by the last portion, which provides that "the importation or admission of Africans or negroes
into the republic, excepting from the United States of America,
is for ever prohibited, and declared to be piracy." And we contend that the court erred in charging, in effect, that the constitution intended to make slaves of persons who were free before
their arrival in Texas.
VII. The court erred in admitting the testimony of Thomas
M. League. He was no expert, and was conseqiently incompetent to testify as to foreign laws or customs.
VIII. The court erred in admitting proof of slavery in Africa, and in charging that this came within the provision of the
constitution.
History teaches that slavery in Africa is dependent upon
force, and is the result of battles and struggles not recognized
by civilized nations, nor by the laws of nations. And such a
state of slavery could not have been within the design of the
constitution of the late republic. This view is sustained by
the Amistad case, 15 Peters, 593.

43*

510

SUPREME COURT.
Raudon v. Toby.

And it is. well known that, in the prosecution of the slave
trade, but lit.tle regard is paid to the condition of the African,
as to whether he is bond or free.
IX. The court erred in charging that the Gold Coast, Slave
Coast, &c., are inconsiderable parts of Africa, and proof that
slavery existed in one part afforded a presumption that it existed
in another part. This, we contend, is repugnant alike to reason
and to experience. If a similar case were to be tried in any
court in Europe, would proof that slavery existed in Maryland
amount to proof that it existed also in Massachusetts ? Yet
this presumption would be much more reasonable than the
charge of the court, for these States are under the same general government, a.,d the different tribes in Africa are all independent, and are generally hostile towards each other
Again, this charge expressly violates that provision of the
statute of Texas which provides, that "the judge shall nt in
any case, civil or criminal, charge or comment on the weight
of the evidence or testimony," &c. See Acts of 1846, p. 360,
§ 99.
These negroes having been introduced into Cuba and into
Texas against law, we contend that the purchase-money for
which they were sold cannot be recovered; and that it was entirely immaterial whether theywere then bond or free. Billard
et al. v. Hayden et al., 12 English Common Law Reports, 222.
See also Law v. Hodgson, 2 Campbell's Nisi Prius Reports, 147.
31r. Bibb, for defendant in error, classified the bills of exceptions according to their subjects, instead of considering them
numerically.
.FirstBill of
Exceptions.
The exposition of the instrument No. 3, which the court
was moved to adopt, confined it to the one note only; applied
it to No. 1, payable 21st June, 1843 (within the period of prescription), to the exclusion of note No. 2, payable 21st June,
1842, more than four years next before suit brought, so that
the bar by the statute might apply. That exposition the court
refused to adopt, and admitted the instrument to be read in
evidence to the jury.
This exposition dwells upon one expression, "my note," tp
the total neglect of the antecedent and consequent parts. The
instrument recites "several notes," held by McKinney & Williams, and Thomas F. McKinney, agent of Thomas Toby,
some two years before, on which said Randon had obtained
farther indulgence over and above the time of " their maturity";
that said indulgence was granted by Thomas F. McKinney,
upon Randon's promise then to iappropriate half his crops

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

511

Randon v. Toby.

every year to pay the amount due said McKinney & Williams,
if there be any thing due them over and above the amount of
purchase of negroes bought of them, and "then in extinguish.
ment of said amount of purchase of negroes." From this recital it is plain that there were "several notes," not two only$
upon which the indulgence had been granted; and that the
"several notes," "past due," upon which the indulgence had.
been so obtained some two years before, were all drawn in consideration "of the amount of purchase of negroes" ; and that
the proceeds of half the crops were to be applied, secondly, "in
extinguishment of said amount of purchase of negroes." So the
"several notes" were in consideration "of said amount of purchase of neroes." All the seVeral notes were included in the
arrangement of 1844 for payment by the addition of the other
half of the crops; all were included in the promise, "that no
advantage shall be taken, or any plea of statute of limitations
be made to avoid the payment of said notes, but they shall be
and remain in as full force and effect as though they were renewed."
Shall the expressions "several notes," "farther indulgence
on said notes," "said amount of purchase of negroes," no advantage of the statute of limitations "to avoid the-payment of
said notes," but "they shall be" as though they were "renewed," be passed over and made nugatory, by harping solely
upon the words "of which my note to said Toby is a part of
consideration" ?
The sages of the law, in the exposition of treaties, pacts,
statutes, testaments, deeds, and other instruments, have used
and handed down to us rules which are commended as the dictates of enlightened reason and .common sense, whereof the
following will suffice for the present, viz. :" That the construction be made on the entire instrument,
and that one part of it doth help to expound another, and that
every word (if it may be) may take effect and none be rejected,
and that all the parts do agree together, and there be no discordance therein. Ex antecedentibus et consequentibus est
optima interpretatio. For Turpis est pars que cum suo toto
non convenit. Maledicta expositio qum corrumpit textur."
" That the construction be such as the whole and every part
of it may take effect, and as much effect as may be for that
purpose for which it was made." Touchstone, ch. 5, § 4, p. 87.
To cavil about the words in subversion of the plain intent
of the parties, is a malice against justice and the nurse of injustice. Throckmerton v. Tracy, Plowd. 161.
A man ought not to rest on the letter only, "nan qui hmret
in litera heret in cortice, but he ought to riely upon the sense,

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

which is the kernel and the fruit, whereas the letter is but the
shell." Eyston v. Studd, Plowd. 467.
41Falsa orthographia, falsa grammatica, non vitiat cartam
vel concessionem," nor the singular instead of the plural number, nor the plural instead of the singular. Earl of Shrewsbury's
case, 9 Co. 48 a'; Co. Litt. 146 b.
" The office-of a good expositor is to make construction on
all -the parts together, and pot of one part only by itself.
Nerro enim aliquam partem recte ifitelligere possit, antequam
totum iterum atque iterum perlegerit." Lincoln College's
case, 3 Co. 59 b; 8 Viner, p. 181, F, a; pl. 7.
Construction must be made in suppression of the mischief,
and in advancement of the Temedy. - Co. Litt. 381, b.
The construction insisted on by the counsellors for Randon, in this bill of exception, violates all the rules of con',truction; it dwells upon a word only; disregards the preceding
and succeeding parts; corrupts the text; sticks in the shell,
tastes not of the kernel; and disregards the purport and intent
of the writing. The bar, by the statute of limitations, was the
mischief to arise from further indulgence; the remedy intended was, that no advantage of the statute should be taken; that
the notes should remain in as full force and effect as if renewed.
But the exposition insisted on is for the purpose of inflicting'
the very mischief which the instrument intended to avoid; to
apply the remedial agreement to the note payable at twentyfour months, not barred by the statute, and exclude note No.
2, payable at twelve months, that it may be barred.
Third Bill of Exceptions.
After "Randon had, by plea upon plea and amendment
upon amendment, averred that the only consideration for. the
notes sued on was African negroes imported into Texas, and
sold by said:Toby or his agent, and after he had adduced T. F.
MeKinney as a witness, and proved by him that both the notes
sued on were given in consideration of Toby's interest in the
negroes, and in the note to McKinney & Williams of 1st September, 1840, and that Randon knew it, then his witness was,
upon cross-examination, asked by the counsel for Toby to what
note or notes from David Randon to Thomas Toby the instrument in writing dated '14th March, .1844, referred. Said
withiess answered, "that it referred to both of the promissory
notes sued on, being the same filed with amended petition,
marked 1 and 2";. thereupon the counsel for Randon moved
-the *court,"that the said evidence of the said McKinney should
be ruled out'and withdrawn from the jury, because the same
was contradictory to the said writing marked No. 3, -as afore.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

543,

Randon v. Toby.

said, which it pretended to explain; the said writing referring
only to one note from David Randon to Thomas Toby."
Th construction of the instrument insisted on by that
objection is still founded upon the one ivord "note," the one
idea "my note," culled out and separated from~the body of the
instrument, as if the true reading and sense did not save from
the statate of limitations the whole debt in arrear for the purchase of the negrqes, as well the balance due to Toby for his
interrst in the negroes, as the balance due to McKinney &
'Williams upon the note to them of September 1st, 1840, which
was also given for the purchare of the negroes.
That the instrument No. 3 refers to the whole amount of
the purchase of the negroes, which had been divided into parts,
the one part payable to McKinney & Williams, the other
payable to Thomas Toby upon the two notes to him for his
interest in the negroes, is the legal construction of the instrument. The answer of the witness Thomas F. McKinney, that
the instrument referred to both the notes to Toby, is consistent
with the legal construction of the instrument when applied to
the facts existing at its date; it is not altering nor contradicting the instrument by any new secret averment, but is in
accord with its true meaning and legal effect,-with the sound
exposition of the instrument viewed in all its parts. The
Words, "of which my note to said Toby is a part of consideratin," are explained by the antecedent and consequent parts to
mean, "of which my debt to said Toby is part of consideration
of the amount of purchase of negroes." The word- "note"
means token of a debt, paper given in confession of a debt, and
may well be used as a noun collective (nomen collectivun) to
signify a debt upon one consideration divided into two parts,
payable at different days.
The court could not have given the opinion that McKinney's testimony contradicted the instrument No. 3, without
falsifying fact and law.
Sixth Bill of Exceptions. .
This subject is again moved in'the sixth bill of- exceptions,
by two instructions asked of the court and refused.
"1st. That the instrument dated 14th March, 1844, does not
itself amount in law to-an acknowledgment of the justice of
any particular claim, and cannot remove the bar of the act of
limitations to either of the particular ndtes now sued on."
" 10th. That if the jury believe that the instrument datedMarch 14th, 1844, refers alone to notes held against the defendant by Thomas F. McKinney, and if-they believe that at the
time of making said instrument the said McKinney did not

514

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

actually hold the notes now sued on, then the said instrument
does not refer to either of said notes, and cannot take either of
said notes out of the statute of limitations."
To what has been said heretofore upon the exposition of
the instrument of 14th March, 1844, 1 w.ill add, that it not
only acknowledges the justice of the debt to Toby for his part
of the negroes, but expressly waives' the advantage of the
statute of limitations; the maxim is, "Quilibet renunciari potest beneficium juris pro se introducto."
The tenth instruction contains two .vices;-lst, a proposition to refer the legal exposition of the instrument to the jury;
2d, a fal.qe construction, founded upon the mere letter, in subversion of the sense and intent of the instrument.
In the seventh bill of exceptions this subject is again moved
.by the first instruction, and exception taken to the qualification
with which the court gave that instruction to the jury.
Seventh Bill of Exceptions.
The instruction moved was, "that if the jury believe from
the testimony, and from the instrument dated 14th March,
1844, that said instrument only refers to one note given by defendant to plaintiff, and may refer to the first of the notes set
forth in the petition as well as to the second, and that it is uncertain to which it particularly refers, they will not apply it to
either, and will find for the defendant as to the first note."
The court gave the instruction with this qualification: "that
whether the said instrument referred to one or both notes or
not, and to which it did refer, were questions of fact for the
jury to determine; and if, they found that the said instrument
referred to that note which would otherwise be barred by the
act of limitations, they would consider it as removing the bar:,
To this instruction as given, the counsel for Randon excepted.
Still harping upon the word "note," upon the one idea
"my note," sticking in the letter, in the moss of the bark,
blind to the substance, -the counsellors of Randon would not
be content with an instruction by the court more favorable
than any which ought to havc been given upon this their motion. Verily, their devotion to this word "note," to the one
idea "my note," evinces a zealous, unreasonable idolatry, divided by a very thin partition from foolishness.
The proper province of the court is to construe the words
of a written instrument; the proper province of the jury is to
try and find facts, but not the legal meaning and effect of
writings.
This instruction as moved ought to have been rejected
totally. That the court erred in giving an instruction on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

515

Randon v. Toby.

motion of the defendant Randon, beneficial to him and not to
his prejudice, is not assignable for error by him upon his writ
of error.
As this seventh bill of exceptions has been mclbtioned, the
other point of exception contained in it may be disposed of.
The counsel for Randon moved the instruction to the jury,
secondly stated on page 604, which the court gave, with this
addition and explanation :"If Thomas F. McKinney was not authorized by the plaintiff
to surrender to tile defendant the instrument dated March 14th,
1844, then his agreement to surrender it, if he made such an
agreement in the kettlement of his individual transactions, did
not prejudice the right of the plaintiff to the possession, production, and efcot of such instrument, or prevent its acting as
a legal bar to the plea of the act of limitations; and if the
said MeKinney had surrendered the paper without authority
from Toby, Toby could have given notice to produce the paper at the trial; and, if it had not been produced, could have
gone into parol proof of its contents."
This addition to instruction second, moved by Ra.idon's
counsel, and given by the court, was necessary and proper, inasmuch as it had been expressly proved by the said Randon's
witness, Thomas F. MeKinney, and Toby's witness, E. McLean, that the notes to Toby were not included in the settlement alluded to, and that neither McKinney nor McLean had
any authority to settle the notes sued on ; neither did they profess to Randon to have any such authority.
A person may have an action on a stipulation in his favor
in a deed to which he was not a, party. Mayor v. Bailey, 5
Martin, 321.
Second Bill of Exceptions.
Randon's second bill of exceptions states an objection by
the plaintiff Toby to evidence offered of a receipt dated November 11, 1846, signed by Thomas F. MeKinney, for himself
and MeKinney & Williams, according to a settlement made
for them by E. McLean, because not relevant or pertinent to
any matter in issue; which objection was sustained.
The exclusion of that receipt was clearly proper. There is
neither "ambiguitas latens," nor ambiguitas patens," about
which to start an argument. David Randon's witnesses, John
Randon and T. F. McKinney, and Toby's witness, McLean,
concur that the notes to Toby were not included in the said
settlement made by McLean, alluded to in the receipt offered
in evidence by Randon; that said McLean had no authority to
settle the notes to Toby.

516

SUPREME COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

The instrument, upon its face, excludes any pretence that
the debt of Randon to Toby due by the notes now sued was
settled or acquitted thereby.
Fourth Bill of Exceptions.
The point of the fourth bill of exceptions is this: that the
plaintiff, Toby, objected to the evidence offered by defendant,
Randon, consisting of the copy of the record of the proceedings in the court of the State of Louisiana between Thorn.
as Toby and Thomas Toby & Brother v. Their Creditors;
which objection was sustained by the court.
The record objected to is the transcript of the proceeding be.
gun on the 8th of October, 1840, in the State of Louisiana,
fifth judicial districti by petition and schedule of estate, filed
by the partners Thomas Toby & Brother, and Thomas Toby,
in his individual name, against their creditors, under the law
.of that State respecting insolvent debtors.
Pleas upon this same subject of the cessio bunorum, and supposed assignment of Toby's latent right to a part of a chose
in action, and his concealment of such assignment when the
after notes of the 21st of June, 1841, were executed, are to be
found in the record.
Remarks upon such pleas have been reserved, so that the in.
sufficiency of the pleas rejected by the court, and the propriety
of the decisionlof the court in rejecting the record of the proceedings in Louisiana, as to the cessio bonorum, might be compressed into one and the same argument. That argument is.
properly divisible into two heads: 1. The facts of the case.
2. The law of the case.
1st. As to the facts. The chronological order of events shows
that at the"filing of the petition and schedule, 8th October, 1840,
and at the acceptance thereof by the creditors, at the time of
the discharge given by the creditors, and at the time of the
confirmation of all those proceedings by the order of the court
of 27th November, 1840, the interest of Thomas Toby in the
negroes in Texas had been sold, and that interest was included
in the note given by Randon to McKinney & Williams, of 1st
September, 1840, go that Toby had only an unexpressed, latent, equitable interest in the chose in action for $ 10,949.48,
executed by Randon to McKinney & Williams, which included
Toby's interest, and also the interest of the other cotenants
in the negroes previously sold to Randon. This interest of
Thomas Toby in the choses in action, p yable to IcKinney
& Williams, was never severed until the notes now sued on,
dated 21st June,, 1841, were executed by Randon to Thomas
Toby.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

517

Randon v. Toby.

Upon these'facts the law is clear that the latent, equitable,
undivided interest of Thomas Toby in the chose in action,
payable to McKinney & Williams, was not assignable, did
not pass by the proceedings in Louisiana from Toby to his
creditors, and was not required by the laws of Louisiana to
have been assigned by Toby to his creditors, under the said
proceedings and cessio bonorum;
A debt as between debtor and creditor is indivisible without
the consent of both. Kelso v. Beaman, 6 La. Rep. 90.
No debtoris bound to pay a debt by portions, and no partial
transfer carn be made by a creditor so as to be binding on a
debtor, even when notice is given, except by the express consent of the latter. Miller v. Brigot et al., 8 La. Rep. 536,;'
Poydras v. Delamere, 13 La. Rep. 101; Mandeville v. Welch,
5 Wheat. 277.
Those decisions show that the exception to the admissibility
of the record was properly ruled by the court, and that the decisions rejecting pleas respecting the cessio bonorum were also
proper.
(The arguments of 141r. Bibb, upon the fifth, sixth, and eighth
bills of exceptions, relative to slavery in Africa, &c., are omitted.)
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Had this case been conducted on the principles of pleading
and practice, known and established by the common law, a
short declaration in assumpsit, a plea of non-assumpsit, and
tnon-assutmpsit infra sex annos, would have been sufficient to
prepare the case for trial on its true merits. But, unfortunately, the District Court has adopted the system of pleading
and code of practice of the State courts; and the record before us exhibits"a most astonishing congeries of petitions and
answers, amendments, demurrers, and exceptions, - a wrangle
in writing extending over more than twenty pages, and continued nearly two years,-in which the true merits of the case
are overwhelmed and concealed under a mass of worthless
pleadings and exceptions, presenting some fifty points, the most
of which are wholly irrelevant, and serve only to perplex the
court, and impede. the due administration of justice. The
merits of the clse, when extricated from the chaos of demurrers
and exceptions in which it is enveloped, depend on two or
three questions, simple and easily decided. We do not deem
it necessary, therefore, to inquire whether the court below may
have erred in their decision of numerous points, submitted to
them, which have no bearing on the merits of the case, and are
of no importance to the just decision of it. It will be unneces.
VOL. X1.

44

518

SUPREME COURT.
iHandon v. Toby.

sary to decide whether the judge erred in his construction of
the laws of Africa !!! and other questions of a similar character,
provided it shall appear that, on the admitted facts of the case,
he should have instructed the jury that the defendant had established no just defence to the plaintiff's action.
On the trial, the plaintiff gave in evidence two notes executed by defendant, and purporting to be for value received,
payable to the plaintiff or his order. They were dated in June,
1841, and payable in one and two years. Three distinct defences were set up by defendant, which had some apparent
foundation of fact to support them; a fourth, that the defendant had paid the notes to McKinney, the agent of the plaintiff,
being proved to be false in fact, need not be further noticed.
1st. The first was the statute of limitations, of four years,
of the State of Texas.
2dly. That the plaintiff had made an assignment of all his
property to his creditors, and therefore had no right to recover.
And 3dly. That the notes were given for the purchase of
negroes imported from Africa to Cuba and thence to Texas in
1835. and consequently that the defendant had received no consideration, because the negroes, being imported contrary to law,
were entitled to their freedom.
We shall notice these points of defence in their order.
1st. The plea of the statute of limitations was prima facie
good, as to one of the notes, as suif had not been instituted till
more than four years after it became due. But the plaintiff
rebutted this plea by the exhibition of the following agreement,
signed by Randon, the defendant.
"This instrument of March 14th, 1844, witnesseth : That
whereas McKinney & Williams, of Galveston, and Thomas
F. McKinney, agent of Thomas Toby, of New Orleans, hold
several iuites drawn by me, and past due; and Thomas F.
McKinney, some two years since, did agree for MeKinney &
William's, and the said Thomas Toby, to grant me further
indulgence on said notes, over and above the time of their
maturity; and I did then say, promise, and agree, that I would
deliver to him, the said Thomas F. McKinney, each and every
year, all the one half of every crop of cotton in payment, first
of the amount due the said McKinney & Williams, if there
b any thing due them over and above the amount of purchase
of negroes bought of them, and then in extinguishment of said
amount of purchase of negroes, of which my note to said Toby
is a part of consideration ; and I further agree and oblige myself, that any surplus I may have from the proceeds of the
other half of my crops, over and above my wants, exclusive
of any speculations or purchase of negroes, shall also be.turned

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

519

Randon v. Toby.

over as above; and I further bind and obligate myself, my heirs,
assigns, and administrators, that no advantage sial be taken,
or any plea of statute of limitations be made, to avoid the
payment of said notes, but they shall be and remain in as full
force and effect- as though they were renewed. ,D. RANDON."
This agreement, being. founded on a good considgration and
accepted by the plaintiff, became incorporated in the notes, and
formed a part of the contract, by mutual consent. It extended
the time of payment, and the statute did not begin to run till
the extenddd time had expired. It operated also by way of
estoppel iti pais to a defence under the statute of limitations.
Otherwise the defendafit would gain an advantage by his own
fraud, or put the plaintiff to an action on the agreement. On
one or the other of these principles, the doctrine of estoppel
has its foundation. The plea of the statute is a breach of the
agreement, and, "to avoid circuity of action, it may be set up in
avoidance of the plea. Moreover, the stipulation in this agreement forms a new promrise on good consideration to pay the
money, which has always been held as a sufficient replication
to the plea of the statute of limitations.
It has been a subject of complaint in this case, also, that the
court submitted the construction of this instrument of writing
to the jury. But the defendant cannot allege this as error.
First, because it was done at his own request; and secondly,
because the court should have instructed the jury that the construction contended for by the defendant was wholly without
foundation. The use of the word "note," in the singular number, instead of " notes," is so palpable a slip of the pen, that
its use, although furnishing an opportunity for cavil, could not
be said to create an ambiguity on the face of the instrument,
or leave any doubt as to its true intent in the mind of any one
who will read the whole of it together, and has no intent or
desire to pervert it It refers to "several notes," it acknowledges that " further indulgence was granted on said notes," and
"obligates" the defendant not to plead the statute of limitations"to "said notes." Both the notes to Toby were admitted
to be part of the consideration paid for the purchase of the
negroes referred to in the agreement; consequently, the use
of the word "note" was a mere error in grammar, or slip of
the pen.
By the settlement with McKinney and the firm, and payment of the notes held by them against the defendant, this
paper became useless and inoperative as to them ; but as there
Is no pretence that the notes of Toby were paid, the surrender
of the agreement to Randon would have been a fraud on

520

SUPREME, COURT.
Randon v. Toby.

Toby, and the promise of McKinney to do so cannot invalidate its legal effect.
2d. The record given in evidence, to show the insolvency
of Toby and his assignment under the proceedings in Louisi-.
ana, after the purchase of the negroes and before the notes
now in suit were given, constituted no legal defence to the action. The taking of the note. payable to Toby was no fraud
on the defendant; Toby was himself one of the syndics or assignees to settle his insolvent estate; he had a right to secure
the debt and give an acquittance for it, and whether he took
the note payable to himself individually, or as syndic, and
whether he has accounted for it to his creditors, or may be
bound to do it hereafterwhen the money is received, are questions with which the defendant has no concern whatever.
3d. The plea that the notes were given for African negroes
imported into Texas after the year 1833 is equally unavailable,
as a matter of defence, with those already mentioned. This
fact seems to have been alleged in the pleadings, as showing a
want of consideration. On the argument here, it was endeavored to be supported on the ground that the notes were void,
because the introduction of African negroes, both into Cuba
and Texas, was contrary to law. But in neither point of view
will these facts constitute a defence in the present case. If
these notes had been given on a contract to do a thing forbidden by law, undoubtedly, they would be void; and the court
would give no remedy to the offending party, though both
were in pari delicto. But Toby or his agent, McKinney, had
no connection with the person who introduced the negroes
contrary to law. Neither of the parties in this case had any
thing to do with the original contract, nor was their contract
made in defiance of law. The buying and selling of negroes,
in a State where slavery is tolerated, and where color is
primd facie evidence that such is the status of the person,
cannot be said to be an illegal contract, and void on that account. The crime committed by those who introduced the
negroes into the country does not attach to all those who may
afterwards purchase them. It is true that the negroes may
possibly, by the laws of Texas, be entitled to their freedom on
that account. If the defendant had shown that the negroes
bad sued out their freedom in the courts of Texas, it would
have been a good defence. In every sale of personal property
there is an implied warranty of title, for a breach of which a
vendee may .sue his vendor and recover the price paid; and
on a suit for such price may plead want of consideration or
eviction by a better title.' But that is neither alleged nor
proved in the present case.. On the contrary, the defendant

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

521

Randon v. Toby.

held and enjoyed the negroes, and sold them and received
their value; and the negroes are held as slaves to this day, if
alive, for any thing that appears on the record. As respects
the defendant, therefore, he has received the full consideration
for his notes, the title to his property has never been questioned, nor has he been evicted from the possession, or threatened with eviction. Consequently he has no right to set up
a defence under the implied warranty of title, or for want of
consideration.
If the defendant should be sued for his tailor's bill, and come
into court with the clothes made for him on his back, and
plead that he was not bound to pay for them, because the importer had smuggled the cloth, he would present a case of
equal merits, and parallel with the present; but would not be
likely to have the verdict of the jury or judgment of the court
in his favor.
The defendant has bought these negroes in the condition of
slaves de facto, with the primd facie evidence of their status
imprinted on their forehead; he has held them as slaves, he
has sold them as such, and he has no right 'to call upon the
court in a collateral action, to which neither the slaves nor
their present owners are parties, to pronounce on the question
of their right to freedom, especially in support of a defence
which has so little to recommend it.
Having thus examined the merits of this case, and shown
that the court oughtto have instructed the jury to find for the
plaintiff on the admitted facts of it, we think it wholly unnecessary to examine further the multitude of demurrers or exceptions spread over the record, as no decision of the court belowy
upon them could have wronged the defendant or affected the
merits of the case.
The judgment' of the court below is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at
the rate of six per centum per annum.
Supplementary Order.
Dfr. Bibb, of counsel for the defendant in error, having stated
to the court that it appeared on the face of the record of this
case, that Thomas Toby was dead2 that the citation was served
44 •

522

SUPREME COURT.
Spear v. Place.

on Jonas Butler, his administrator, and that the plaintiff in
error had accepted such service of the citation, moved the court
that the titling .of the case in this court be, David Randon,
Plaintiff in error, v. Jonas Butler, Administrator of Thomas
Toby, deceased, and that the judgment of this court be entered
in behalf of said Jonas Butler. Whereupon it is now here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and the same is
hereby, granted, and that the clerk make the entries accordingly.

ARTHUR SPEAR, CLAIMANT GF THE SCHOONER Lucy ANN AND CARGO,
APPELLANT, V. HENRY PLACE, LIBELLANT, FOR HIMSELF AND OTHERS.
Where the admiralty court decreed that a vessel should pay salvage to the amount
of one fifth of her value, and that value was shown to be $2,600, an appeal to this
court would not lie, for want ofjurisdiction.
It is the amount of salvage, and not of.the vessel, which tests the jurisdiction; the
salvage only being in controversy.
The master could not properly represent.(without special authority) the consignees
of the cargo who had received their respective consignments before the filiIn of
the libel. They lived in the place where the court was held, and ought to havo
represented their own interests.
case the
The master, therefore, cannot appear for them all conjointly, and in this
amount of salvage to be paid by the largest consignee would be only $ 1,136.80.
Neither the salvage upon the vessel or cargo, therefore, is sufficient in amount to
bring the case within the jurisdiction of this court.

This was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the State of Texas.
It was a libel filed on the 22d of December, 1848,by Henry
Place, master of the steamship Globe, for himself and the other
owners of the ship, against the schooner Lucy Ann and cargo,
for salvage.
The return of the marshal to the writ of seizure was as follows :"Received this writ the 22d day of December, 1848, and
executed the same day by seizing the schooner Lucy Ann, her
tackle, apparel, and furniture; and on the same day seized
certain goods, wares, and merchandise, as per bills and bills of
lading hereto attaqhed, and marked No. 1 ,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7, as
furnished by the owners and consignees of said goods, which
said goods I left in the possession of the consignees, first taking
their receipts, to be delivered when called for.
" JAuES H.

By H. B.

CocE, 11Marshal,

MIARTIN,

D. MDarshal."

