DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

229

Cotton v. The United States.

District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that there
is no error in the decree of the said Circuit Court, "that the
defendants do pay to the complainants the sum of $ 2,869.14,
with interest from the 25th of September, 1848," and that the
same should be affirmed, with costs; and that the complainants are entitled to recover from Warner & Co. $1,376.924
(part of'the aforesaid sum of $ 2,869.14) with interest thereon
from the 25th of September, 1848, together with $
on
account of the costs of the complainants in this court, and to
have execution against them for the said several sums, amounting to $
; and also that the said complainants are
entitled to recover from the said Heald, Woodward, & Co.
$ 1,492.21- (the residue of the said sum of $ 2,869.14) with
interest thereon from the 25th of September, 1848, together
with $
in full of the balance of the costs of the complainants in this court, and to have execution against them for
the said several sums, amounting to $
Whereupon
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a decree in conformity to the opinion of this court, and to proceed therein
accordingly.

LOFTIN COTTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.

TnE UNITED STATES.

The United States have a right to bring an action of trespass guare cdausumfregil
against a person for cutting and carrying away trees from the public lands.

Tnis case was brought Up, by writ of'error, from the District Court of the United States for th6 Northern District of
Florida.
It was an action of trespass quare clausumrfregit,brought
by the United States, for cutting trees upon the public lands,
commenced in the Supenor Court of West-Florida in-1844, to
which the defendant pleaded not guilty on the 26th of March,
.1845. The cause remained pending in said court untn the
15th of January. 1848, when, in pursuance of the act of the
22d of February, 1847, ch. 17, ยง 8, it was transferred to the
United States District Court for the Northern, District of
Florida, and was ordered to stand for trial at the ensuing
March term.
At that term the defendant appeared, and on leave filed a,
VOL. XI.
20

SUPREME COURT.
Cotton v. The United States.

demurrer to the declaration, which, after argument, was overruled, and the cause set down for trial on the plea of not
guilty.
The cause having come on, the defendant requested the
court to charge the jury, 1st. That the only remedy for the United States for cutting
pine timber on the public lands was by indictment.
2d. That the United States have no common law remedy
for private wrongs.
3d. That the right of the United States to bring this action
must be derived either from an act of Congress or from the
law of some State in which the contract was made by which
it acquired the property on which this trespass is alleged to
have been committed.
4th. These lands were acquired by treaty from Spain, and
that the United States has no common law remedy for trespass committed thereon. And that, Congress not having authorized the exercise of this remedy, the plaintiff ought not to
recover any damages.
Which charge the court refused to give; whereupon the defendant excepted.
The jury found the defendant guilty of the trespass, and
assessed the damages of the United States at $ 362.50, for
which am6unt, and $ 122.22 costs, judgment was entered up.
A motion in arrest of judgment was overruled.
The Supreme Court having, at the last term, decided that it
had jurisdiction in cases like this, under the act of the 27th of
February, 1847, without reference to the amount in controversy, thie case now came before the court on the points raised by
the bill of exceptions. 9 How. 579.
It was argued by Mr. Walker, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Crittenden (Attorney-General), for the United States.
1M1r. Crittenden.
For the proper understanding of the points in the case, it is
necessary to call the attention of the court to the act of the
2d of March, 1831 (4 Statutes at Large, 472), which was before it at the last term in the case of The United States v.
Briggs, 9 Howard, 351, in which it was decided, that the cutting or procuring to be cut, removing or procuring to be removed, or aiding, or assisting, or being employed in the cutting of all descriptions of timber frees on the public lands, is
an indictable offence under the said act, and punishable by fine
and imprisonment.
No defence arisifig out of the passing of this act was pleaded
-either by way of abatement or specially.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

231

Cotton v. The United States.

The United States have the same xight as any other pro.
prietor to sue for trespasses on the public lands, and that right
is not merged or lost by such trespasses having been made an
offence punishable by indictment under the act of 1831. Dugani v. United States, 3 Wheat. 181; United States v. Gear,
"3Howard, 121; Manro v. Almeida, 10 Wheat. 494; Cross v.
Gurthrie, 2 Root, Con. R. 90; Smith v. Weaver, 1 Taylor, 58;
Blassingame v. Glaves, 6 B. Monroe, 38; Foster v. The Commonwealth, 8 Watts & Serg. 77.
Mr.
Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
T
his is an action of trespass quare clausumfregit
brought
by the United States against Loftin Cotton, in which he is
charged with cutting and carrying away a large number of
pine and juniper trees from the lands of plaintiff.
On the trial below, the counsel for defendant requested the
court to instruct the jury, 1st. " That the only remedy for the
United States for cutting pine timber on the public lands was
by indictment." 2d. "That the United States have no common law remedy for private wrongs." The refusal by the
court to give these instructions is now alleged as error.
Every sovereign State is of necessity a body politic, or artificial person, and as such capable of making contracts and
holding property, both real and personal. It is true, that, in
consequence of the peculiar distribution 6f 'the powers of government between the States and the United States, offences
against the latter, as a sovereign, are those only which are defined by statute, while what are called common law offences
are the subjects of punishment only by the States and Territories within whos6 jurisdiction they are committed. But the
powers of the United States as a sovereign, dealing with offenders against their laws, must not be confounded with their
rights as a body politic. It would present a strange anomaly,
indeed, if, having the power to make contracts and hold propeity as other persons, natural or artificial, they were not entitled
to the same remedies for their protection. - The restraints of
the Constitution upon their sovereign powers cannot affect
their civil rights. Although as a sovereign the United States
may not be sued, yet as a corporation or body politic they
may bring suits to enforce their contracts and protect their
property, in the State courts, or in their own tribunals administering the same laws. As an owner of property in almost
every State of the Union, they have the same right to have it
protected by the local laws that other persons have. As was
said by this court in Dugan v. United -States, 3 Wheat. 181,
"It would be strange to deny them a right which is secured to

232

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton v. Ford.

every citizen of the'United States." In the United States v.
The Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Peters, 392, it was decided that
when the United States, by their authorized agents, become a
party to -negotiable paper, they have all the rights and incur all
the responsibilities of other persons who are parties to such instruments. In the United States v. Gear, 3 Howard, i20, the
right of the United States to maintain an action of trespass
for taking ore from their lead mines was not questioned.
Many trespasses are also public offences, by common law,
or are made so by statute. But the punishment of the public
offence is no bar to the remedy for the private injury. The
fact, therefore, that the defendant in this case might have been
punished by indictment as for a public offence, is no defence
against the present actidn. Whether, if he had actually been
indicted and amerced for this trespass in a criminal prosecution
in the name of the United States, such conviction and fine
,could be pleaded in bar to a civil action by the same plaintiff.
is a question not before us in this case, and is therefore not
dec.ded.
The judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, .it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with damages at the
rate of six per centum per annum.

RICHARD C. STOCKTON, APPELLANT, V. JAIES C.

i!ORD.

Where there was a judgment which had been recorded under the laws of Louisiana,
and thus made equivalent to a mortgage upon the property of the debtor, and the
plaintiff assigned this judgment, and was then himself sued and had an execution
issued against him, his rights ander the recorded judgment could not be sold under
this execution, because he had previously transferred all those rights.

It was not necessary for an assignee of this recorded judgment, who was defending
-himself in chancery, by claiming under the assignment, to notice in his pleading

an allegation in the bill that a release of the judgment was improperly entered upon
the record. His assignment was not charged as fraudulent.
The attorney who had recovered the judgment which was thus recovered and assigned,
was not at liberty to purchase it when his client becmme sued and execution was
issued against him.

Tuis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

