414

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

JOSHUA J. MOORE, PLAINTIFF, V.

JAxrES

BiowN,

ALFRED

BROWN,

1&Rx~oN HOGAN, AND JOSEPH FROWARD.
According to the statute of limitations passed by the State of llnois, a defendant in
ejectment who had been in possession of the land by actual residence thereon,
having a connected title in law or equity deducible of record from the State or
by the
authorized
or other person
public
anyland
orsell
from
the
de&c., might
of taxes,
the non-payment
for officer
such
State to
of the States,
lawsUnited
fend bimself 1y pleading that he had been in -possession as aforesaid for seven
years.

where a defendant offered a deed in evidence, purporting to be a deed , roii an
But
officer authorized to sell for taxes, and the deed upon its face showed that the
deed,
was benefi
a void of
this the
the statute,
requisitions
the not
not complied
had
officer
the
within
bring theofdefendant
and did
of Jaw, with
violation
made in
statute of limitations.
He must have a connected title from some one authorized to sell, and in this case
the officer was not so authorized. The deed was not, tjerefore, admissible in
evidence.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
of Illinois, upon a cert~iiate of divisioal
States for the District
in opinion between the judges thereof.
The whole case was contained in the certificate, which was

as follows: "

27e United States of America, District of illinois.

"At a Circuit Court of the United States, begun and held
at Springfield, for the Distict of Illinois, on Monday, the 7th
day of June, in the year of our Lord 1847, and in the seventytrst year of our independence.
bVeLean and the Hon. Nathaniel
en.
John
S"Present the H
Pope, Esquires.
"cJOShUA J. MOORE V. JARIES BRowN, ALFRED BRowN, HtAMoN
and JosePH FR owARD.
HOG,

" State of the .Pleadings.
"This is an actimn of ejectment, brought under the statute
of the State of lanos, and pilea no t guilty of withholding the
premises, according to the same statute.
" This cause coming to trial this term, the plaintiff proved
tite in himself, regularly derived from the United States, and
by special agreement the possession of the defendants was adided.
"The defendants then proposed to prove that they had been
possessed of the premises in question by actual residence
thereon, having a connected title thereto in law or equity, deducible U of r e of f mp ica ofic of the State of Illinois,
for the nonand
authorized b the laws of the State tosell
paymentfed, fo theD trm of Inoiseven years nex preceding

DECEMBERTERM, 1850.

415

Moore v. Brown et-al.

the commencement of this suit; and as the first link of evidence towards making such proof, stating that they would follow it up by other complete proofs, offered in evidence a deed
made by the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State of Illinois,
which deed isin the words figures, and seal following, to wit: 91The Auditor of Public Accounts ofthe State of Illinois, to all
who shall-see these presents, greeting: Know ye, that whereas
I did, on the 9th day of December, 1823, at the town of Vandalia, in conformity with all the requisitions of the several acts
in such cases made and provided, expose to. public sale a certain tract of land, being the south half of section thirty-five,
township twelve north, in range one west of the fourth princi.
pal meridian, for the sum of $ 10.81, being the amount of the
tax of the years 1821 and 1822, with the interest -and costs
chargeable on said tract of land. And whereas,- at the time
and place aforesaid, Stephen Davis offered to pay the aforesaid
sum of money for the whole of said tract of land, which was
the least quantity bid for; and the said^ Stephen Davis has
paid the sum of $10.81 into the treasury of the State; I have
granted, bargained, and sold, and by these presents, as auditor
of the aforesaid State, do grant bargain, and sell, the whole
of said south half of section thirty-five, in township twelve
north, in range one west of the fourth principal meridian, to
Stephen Davis, his heirs and assigns. To have and to hold
saidTtract of land to the said Stephen Davis and his heim for
ever; subject, however, to all the rights of redemption provided
for by law.
"' In testimony whereof, the said auditor has hereunto subscribed his name and affixed his seal, this 20th day of.June
1832. "J.
T. B. STAPP) Auditor.'
"'State of Illinois, State Recorders Office, ss.
"' I certify that the within deed has been duly recorded in
this office, in Vol. F, page 281. Given under my hand and
seal of office, at Vandalia, this 31st day of May, A. D. 1833.
'JAMES WHITLOCK, State Recorder.
gi Fees 432 record.
37J cert. and seal.

$ 0.814.'

"Which deed includes the premises in question in this suit;
to the introduction of which deed the plaintiff objects, on the
ground that, by reference to the face. of the deed, and the law
as it then stood (I An Act entitild An Act for'levying and collecting a tax on land and other property; approved February
18th, 1823), it appeared that the sale for the non-payment of

416

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

taxes had been made by the auditor at an earlier day than he
could according to law possibly do. And so it occurred as a
question whether said deed was admissible in evidence for the
purpose and in the connection for and in which the defendants
offered it, the objection aforesaid notwithstanding; on which
question the opinions of the judges were opposed. Whereupon, on motion that the point on wnich the disagreement has
happened may during the term be stated, under the direction
of the judges, and certified under the seal of the court to the
Supreme Court, to be finally decided, it is ordered, that the
foregoing statement of the case and facts, made under the direction of the judges, be certified according to the request of
the plaintiff, and the law in that case made and provided."
It was argued for the plaintiff in a printed argument pre.
pared by A. Williams, Esq., who was not an attorney of this
court, and therefore the argument was adopted and signed by
Mr. Butterfield. No counsel appeared for the defendants.
The argument for the plaintiff was as follows: This was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff,
Moore, against the said defendants, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Illinois.
On the trial, at the June term of 1847, the plaintiff proved
title to.-the land sued for in himself, and that the defendants
were in possession of the same at the commencement of this
suit, and rested his case.
The defendants then, in order to make out a defence under
the limitation act of Illinois, passed in 1835, offered in evidence, as the foundation of their title, a deed from the Auditor of Public Accounts for the State of Illinois, which is set out
at length in the record. It purports, on its face, to have been
executed by virtue of a sale made on the 9th day of December,
1823, for the non-payment of taxes under the revenue act
passed February 18, 1823.
Upon the admissibility of this deed as evidence, the judges
were opposed in opinion.
The revenue act of 1823 requires the owners of lands to
pay the tax thereon into the State treasury on or before the 1st
day of October, and the seventh section provides that, if they
hall fail, refuse, or neglect to pay the taxes aforesaid, it shall
be the duty of the auditor to make a transcript from his books
of all such delinquents,-chargng the tax with an interest at
the rate of six per centum* per annumuntil paid, and all costs
which-may accrue; and cause the same-to be advertised in
the paper printed at the seat of government, or in some other

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

417

Moore v. Brown et al.

paper printed in the State, for three weeks, giving notice of
the day of sale, the last of which publications shall be at
least two months before the day of sale, and the auditor shall
proceed to sell, on the day fixed in such advertisement, the
whole, or so much of each tract as will Day the tax, interest,
and costs."
It will be seen from the foregoing, that the auditor could
not possibly be authorized to sell before the 15th of December, and as the deed shows that the sale was made on the
9th of December, it is absolutely void, as appears upon its
own face. It was therefore .clearly inadmissible as evidence
of title, and the only question jpreserlted for the decision of
the court is, whether it was admissible as evidence of "a connected title in law or equity," within the meaning of fhe limitation act of 1835. The second section of that act is in these
words: "Every real, possessory, ancestral, or mixed action, or
writ of right brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, of which any person may be possessed by
actual residence thereon, having a -connected title in law or
equity, deducible of record from this-State or the United
States, or from any public officer or other person' authorized
by the laws of the State tb sell such land for the non-payment
of taxes, or fom any sheriff, marshal, or other person authorized to sell such land on execution, or any order, judgment,
or decree of any court of record, shall be brought within seven
years next after possession being taken as aforesaid," &c.
This act is found on page 349 of the Revised Statuteg of.1845,

ยง8.

It is freely admitted, that the legislature did not intend; by
the words "a connected title in law or equity," a perfect and
indefeasible title, because such a title would need no legislalive protection; but we insist that they never intended to extend this protection to a person in possession under a deed
absolutely void upon its own face
That they did not so intend will most manifestly appear
from an examination of two other acts on the same subject,
still in full force. The first was passed in 1827, and provides,
1"that every real; possessory, ancestral, or mixed action, or writ
of right, brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, shall be brought within twenty years next after
the right or title thereto, or cause of such action, accrued, and
See Revised Statutes of 1845, p. 349, ยง 7.
not after.'
Something more than mere naked possession is necessary to
constitute a bar under this act. The possegsion must be adverse, and though it is not easy to determine, in all cases, what
'is advers9 possession, it may be affirmed that it must be a pos-

,418

SUPREME

COURT.

Moore v. Brown et aL

session held by a person-claiming the land in his own right,
Bell v. Fry, 5 Dana, 344. In Tillinghast's Adams on Ejectment, p. 451, it is laid down as a, rule, that, "to constitute a
valid and effectual adverse possession, it is necessary that it
be commenced under color and claim of title." And at p.
453 it is said: "But no act or deed which is void can. be the
foundation of an adverse possession, for it can give no color of
title." See Den ex dem. Walker v. Turner, 9 Wheat. 541.
In .Jackson ex dem. Ten Eyck v. Frost, 5 Cowen, 350, 351,
Savage, Chief Justice, delivering the opinion of the court, says:
"I am aware that it was said, in the case of Jackson v. Thomas
(16 Johns. 301), that if a man enters on land without claim or
color of title, and no privity exists between him and the real
owner, and such person afterwards acquires what he considers
a good title, from that moment his possession becomes adverse.
This doctrine must not be understood as authorizing the purchaser-to consider a naked possession a good title. It must
be, as I understand the law, such a title as the law will, prim2
facie, consider a good title. Otherwise, there would be no
uniforinity. The character of the possession might be made
to depend upon the understanding of the tenant; and the
same possession which would be a good defence to one would
be worthless to another, nd hence a possession under a French
grant was held not to be adverse, because such a grant could
not possibly be the source of a good title."
It is said in Dufour v. Camfranc 11 Martin, 715, that
a title "void in itself will prevent him in whose favor it
(See also 1
was executed from pleading prescription."
Martin, N. S. 324; 4 Martin, N. S. 224.) It is doubtful
from these authorities, whether the auditor's deed would
be even sufficient to constitute adverse possession, and there
is certainly no pretext for saying that it amounts to any
thing more than color of title, and the legislature clearly intended, by the words "a connected title in law or equity,"
something more than color of title, as they have provided that
a possession held under the one for seven years should be
a bar, whilst under the other they require a possession of
twenty years to constitute the bar.
But again. On the 2d of March, 1839, the legislature
passed an act "to quiet possessions and confirm titles to land,"
which provided, among other things, that "1hereafter every person in the actual possession of lands or tenements, under claim
and color of title, made in good faith, and who shall for seven
successive years after the passage of this act continue in such
possession, and shall also, during said time, pay all taxes
legally assessed on such lands or tenements, shall be held and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850

419

Moore v. Brown et al.

adjudged to be the legal owher of said lands or tenements, to
the extent and according to the purport of his or her paper
title." (See Session Acts 1838 and 1839, p. 266; also found
in Revised Statutes of 1845, p. 104, ยง 8.)
This act, passed when the two former acts were in force,
without attempting to repeal either of them, requires, in addition to seven years' actual possession under "claim and color
of title," that the color of title should be made in good faith,
and also requires the payment of taxes for seven- years; showing clearly that the legislature intended by the act of 1835
something more than claim and color of title. These acts
were all regnacted in 1845. (See Revised Statutes of 1845,
as above quoted.)
Taken together, they show the legislative intention to be,
1st, that where a person rests his defence upon adverse possession merely, he must show a possession of twenty years; 2d,
that where he relies upon a possession held under claim and
color of title merely, he must show, in addition to seven years'
possession, that the color of title was made in good faith, and
also that lie had paid the taxes for seven successive years; and
3d, that when he relies on p6ssession under a connected title
in law or equity, &c., he must show, in addition to his Uitle,
seven years' actual possession, by residence on the land. I repeat, then, that it is evident that the legislature meant by the
words "a connected title in law or equity" something more
than "claim and color of title made in good faith." What,
then, did they mean? They most clearly intended, as Chief
Justice Savage expresses it, "such a title as the law will .primd
facie consider a good title"; or,.as expressed by the Supreme
Court of Kentucky, "a title which is good when tested by
itself."
This is the reasonable construction upon general principles
of law, strengthened by the several acts of the legislature on
the subject. But there is another view which renders it imperative. The act of 1835 was copied from the Kentucky act
of limitation of February 9, 1809. The words, "a connected
title in law or equity deducible of record," &c., are copied literally from the Kentucky statute, and of course they were
adopted with the construction which they had previously received from the courts of Kentucky. In the case of Skyles's
Heirs v. King's Heirs, decided by the Supreme Court of Kentucky in 1820 (fifteen years before these words were copied into
the Illinois statute), and reported in 2 A. K. 1Mbarshall, 387, the
court say: " The true construction, then, of the words of the
statute, ' a connected title in law-or equity deducible from the
Commonwealth,' does and must mean such title when tested

420

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

by its own face, and not tried by the title of others, If the defendant's title should be a connected title in law or equity, supposing no other to exist on the ground, then if he proves seven
years' possession holding under it, the statute shall aid him,
although the plaintiff may be able to show, by the production
of his own title or that of others, that the title did not in law
or fact pass to the defendant."
The deed offered in evidence in this case was not such as
the law would primd facie.consider good. It is not good when
tested by its own face, but it is absolutely void upon its own
face. It was contended on the other side, that this deed was
not void upon its face, because it only appears to be void when
the facts appearing upon its face are compared -withthe law.
In this sense, no deed can be void on its face. Deeds are valid
or void according as they are in conformity with or in violation
of -the law, and they can neither be pronounced valid or void
but by applying to them the law. The court is supposed to
know and apply the law, to the deed, and when, from this
knowledge of the law and an inspection of the deed, a court is
enabled to pronounce It void, then it is void upon its face; but
when its invalidity is shown by evidence dehors the deed, then
it is not void upon its face. The statute requires "a connected
title in law or equity deducible of record from this State, or the
United States, or from any public officer or other person authorized by the laws of this State to sell such land for the
non-payment *of taxes, or from any sheriff or marshal, or other
person authorized to sell such land on execution, or under any
ordex, judgment, or decree of any court of record. The title is
to be deduced from one of four sources. In this case it is attempted to deduce it from a person authorized by law to sell
the land for the non-payment of taxes. If this deduction of
title can be made out in this case, thrbugh a void deed, it may
be so done in each of the other cases. It will hardly be contended that a title could be deduced from the State or the
United States through a patent void on its face, or that title
could be deduced from a sheriff or maxshal through a void
deed, or one founded on a void judgment (see Walker v. Turner, 9 Wheat. 541) ; or that a sheriff's deed of the land of A,
under a judgment against

;.,

would be such a title as the law

requires.
The law requires a connected title. The auditor's deed was
one link in the chain of title, and is in no respect distinguishable from the other links in the'chain; and if this first link in
the chain may be furnished by a void deed, so may each of the
other links in the chain. In deducing title from the United
States under this statute in the Circuit Courts of the State, a

DECEMBER TER,

1850.

421,

Moore v. Brown et aL

party is universally required to show a valid patent and chain
of valid deeds, duly authenticated, from the patentee to the defendant, and this is the universal sense of the profession in the
State. No case involving the construction of the statute has
ever been decided by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
The title must be deduced from a person authorized by law
to sell such land for the non-payment of taxes. The auditor
was not authorized to sell this o r any other land at the time
when the deed shows the sale to have been made. He had no
general authority to sell lands, but only to sell such lands as
have been listed with and advertised by him, and then only in
the manner prescribed by law. In reference to a deed made
under this same act, but where the defect did not, as in this in-stance, appear on the face of the deed, the Supreme Court of'
Illinois say: "The publication of notice of sale by the auditor,
as required by law, is not one of these facts inferred from his
deed, nor is the proof thereof thrown upon the former owner.
The duty of the auditor to publish this notice is imperative.
His authority to sell is limited, by the express words- of the
law, to the land advertised as aforesaid, and as the rule of law
which required the purchaser to show the p'erformance of this
prerequisite was not changed by the act of 1827, he should
therefore have adduced evidence to that effect. Without
proof of this fact, the auditor's deed was not evidence of the
regularity and legality of the sale, and consequently conveyed
no title to the purchaser." Garrett v. Wiggins, 1 Scam. 337;
also Hile v. Leonard, 1 Scam. 140; and Wiley v. Bean, 1
Gilm. 302.
It may be remarked, that, although the Supreme Court of
Illinois have held, in relation to sales under the revenue lawof 1829, that the auditor's deed alone was primd facie evidence of title, yet they have never so held in'relation to sales
under the reveiue law of 1823, under which the sale in this
case was made, and the decisions above quoted have never
been questioned.
The deed, then, was not evidence of a title deducible from a
person authorized by law to sell such land, &c. The auditor
derived his authority from the law. "The law was his warrant
or power of attornby to sell -the land of another without his
consent, and is certainly entitled to no more favorable constructibn or consideration than a power of attorney voluntaily
executed by the 'owner of the land, authorizing -its sale in a
certain prescribed mode. Then suppose the auditor to, have
made this Sale under such power of attorney, executed by the
owner, authorizing the sale on precisely the terms prescribed
by this statuej and the auditor had sold in precisely the same
VoL. Xr.
26

422

SUPREME COJ1RT.
Moore v. Brown et aL.

manner that he did in this case, would any person pretend that
his deed would be evidence of title for any purpose whatever?
The legislature intended to extend this protection to persons
who- occupied land under a connected title, primd facie good,
against proof alizinde which would rebut or destroy such primd
facie title. There is no hardship in requiring a person to know
the law, and to take notice of defects appearing upon the face
of his owir title. There is reason and policy in protecting a
person who has a title, good primg facie, against evidence or
facts the existence of which he has not the means of knowing.
It is, on the other hand, but justice to the owner who is to lose
his land by so short a limitationi, that the statute should be
restricted to persons holding under a title prind facie good.
This construction preserves the policy of the law in helping the
vigilant and not the careless. It preserves the well-founded
distinction between mistakes of law and fact. , The law always
relieves against the latter, but never against the former. It has
the advantage of certainty, whilst the opposite construction
would introduce all the mischiefs of uncertainty, without furnishing any landmark for the guidance of courts and parties.
In Louisiana a person may prescribe for land of which he
has held the possession under a just title, which is defined by
the Civil Code of that State to be " a title which the possessor
may have received from any person whom he honestly believed
to be the real owner."
Under this law it has been held that, "if the title under which
the acquisition is made be null in itself, from defect of form, or
discloses facts which show the person from whom it is acquired
has no title, it cannot form the basis of this prescription, because the party acquiring must, be presumed to know the law,
and consequently wants the animo dominl which is indispensable in cases of this kind; but where the *titleis free from these
defects, and the property is not transferred by want of title in
the, person- making the transfer, then it forms a good ground
for the prescription; r, in other words, the inquiry is whether
the error be one of fact or of law." Frique v. Hopkins et al.,
4 Martin, N. S. 224.
The occupying claimant act of Kentucky provides, "that if
any person hath peaceably seated or improved, or shall hereafter so seat or improve any lands, supposing them his own by
reason of a claim in law or equity, the. foundation of such
laim being of public record, but which lands shall prove to
belong to another, the charge and value of seating and improvcrshall be paid by the right owner to such seater," &c. 2
Mehead's Stat. 1231.' In the construction of this statute, the
courts of Kentucky adopt the same distinction between error

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

423

Mopre v. Brown et aL.

of fact and of law, holding that persons who, by a knowledge
of the law, might know they had no title, were not within the
meaning of the statute. Barlow v. Bell, 4 Bibb, 106; Clay v.
Miller, 4 Bibb, 461; Young v. Murray, 3 A. K. Marsh. 58.
Under the Tennessee limitation law, which required seven
years' possession under a title founded upon a patent, it was
held that a sheriff's deed, founded on a sale under a void judgment, was not a title within the meaning of the law. Walker
v. Turner, 5 Peters, 668. In this case the advertisement 'stands
in the place of the judgment. In the Tennessee case the judgment and execution gave authority to the sheriff to sell. In
Illinois, according to the decision in the case of Garrett v.Wiggins, 1 Scam. 335, the advertisement authorized the auditor
to sell, and the advertisement in this case, if any was made,
being void, his deed was not a title within the meaning of the
Illinois limitation law, unless the summary and ex parte sales
are to be more favored than sales made under judgment and
execution, which will scarcely be contended.
In the case of Powell v. Harman, 2 Peters, 241, the defendant proved that he had been in peaceable possession of'the
land for more than Seven years, holding adversely to the plaintiff under a deed from the sheriff of Montgomery County,
founded upon a sale for taxes, but which sale was admitted to
be void because the requisites of the law in regard to the sales
of land for taxes had not been complied with.
On the trial it occurred as a question whether a void deed is
such a conveyance that a possession under it will be protected
by the statute of limitations.
The judges being opposed uporr this question, it was referred
to the Supreme Court for its opinion. Chief Justice Marshall,
in giving the opinion of the court, says: "The question now
referred to this court differs from that which was decided in
Patten's Lessee v. Easton, 1 Wheat. 476, in this, that the defendant, who sets up a possession of seven years in bar of the
plaintiff's title, endeavors to connect himself with a grant.
The sale and conveyance, however, by which this connection
is to be formed, are admitted to be void. The conveyance, being made by a person having no authority to make it, is of no
validity, and cannot connect the purchaser with the original
grant. We are therefore of the opinion that the law is for the
plaintiff."
It will be observed that the Tennessee act did not in express
terms, as the Kentucky and Illinois acts do, require a connected
title. This was only required by the construction given to the
act by the Tennessee courts, and although these courts havp
since changed that construction, the authority of these cases, as

424

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

to the kind of conveyances by which a connected title is to be
made, is not thereby in the least impaired.
All these cases, as well those in this court, as the New York,
Louisiana, and Kentucky cases, recognize and apply to this and
like cases the well-known maxim, Jnorantiafacti excusa;
ignorantiajuris nron excusat.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the trial of the cause, after the plaintiff had introduced
his testimony and rested his case upon it,.the defendants, in
order to bring themselves within the limitation act of Illinois,
passed in 1835, offered in evidence as the foundation of their
title a deed from the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State
of Illinois. It purports to have been executed by virtue of a
sale made on the 9th day of December, 1823, for the non-payment of takes under the revenue act of February, 1823. The
plaintiff's counsel objecthd to the introduction of the paper,
and the court were divided in opinion as to its admissibility.
The act just mentioned requires the owners of lands to pay
their taxes into the State treasury, on or before.the 1st day of
October. The seventh section declares, if they shall fail to do
so, "it shall be the duty of the auditor to make a transcript
from the books of all such delinquents, charging the tax with
an interest at the rate of six per centum until paid, and all
costs which may accrue," and that the auditor shall "cause the
same to be advertised in the paper printed at the seat of government, or in some other paper printed in the State, for three
weeks, giving notice of the day of sale, the last of which publications shall be at least two months before the day of sale, and
the auditor shall proceed to sell, on the day fixed in such advertisement, the whole, or so much- of each tract as will pay the
tax, interest, and costs."
The second section of the act of limitation is as follows:IFEvery real, possessory, ancestral, or mixed action, or writ
of righ-4 brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements, or
hereditarents of which any person may be possessed by act-ual residence thereon, having a connected title in law or equity deducible of record from this State or the United States, or
om any public officer or other person authorized by the laws
of the State to sell suc. land for the non-payment of taxes,
or from any sheriff, marshal, or other person authorized to sell
such land upon execution, or any order, judgment, or decree
of any court of record, shall be brought within seven years
next after possession being taken as aforesaid." Rev. Stat.
1845, p. 349.
Upon comparing this section with the acts of 1827 and 1829

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

425

Moore v. Brown et al.

upon the same subject, we have concluded that the section of
the act of 1835 was not meant to give protection to a person
in possession under a deed void upon the face of it.. The
mode of determining that is to test the deed by making a reference to the authority recited in it for making the sale, in connection with the act giving the auditor the power to sell.
When the sale is found not to be according to that power, the
deed is void upon its face, because the action of the auditor is
illegal, and the law presumes it to be known to a purchaser.
The latter can acquire no title under it. Being a void deed,
possession taken under it cannot be said to be adverse and under color of title. What was the fact in this case? It is disclosed upon the face of the deed, that the auditor sold the land
short of the time prescribed by the dct. It was notthen, a sale
according to law. That must have been as well known by the
purchaser as it was by the auditor. The law presumes .it to
have been. The act under which the sale was made was not
meant to prescribe the authority of the auditor only to make
sales, but also to give to purchasers full information of the
terms upon which a title could be acquired to lands sold for
the non-payment of taxes. It was meant to put bidders at a
tax sale upon the inquiry, whether or not the land was offered
for sale according to law. If they do not examine, and shall
buy land exposed to sale for taxes against the law, they do so
at their own risk, and it will be presumed against them that
they know that the deeds given under such circumstances are
made in violation of official duty and of the law. It cannot
be made the foundation of an adverse possession under color
of title against the true owner of the land, whose title to it, the
law says, can only be divested in a certain way for a failure to
pay taxes due upon the land. We do not put the cbnelusion
upon the point exclusively upon the fact that it is a void deed;
but that it is so, being a deed made in violation of law. It is
such a deed that the defendant proposes to use to let in the
proof of a possession which will be protected by the statuite of
1835. Up'on 'general principles, such a paper would not be
admissible as evidence for any purpose in" ejectment, and we
think it was not meant to be included as one of those titles of
record provided for by the act of 1835. Before the limitation
of the act can operate, it must be shown by one claiming its
protection, that he has been in actual possession of the land to
which it is sought to be applied for seven years before the
commencement of the suit, by a connected title in law or
equity, deducible of record from the State or the United States,
or from any public officer or other person authorized by law to
sell such land for the non-payment of taxes. Such language

36 *

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

does not apply to the general authority given by law to an
officer to sell lands for taxes, but to what his authority is to
sell the particular land for taxes which he exposes for sale.
The words of the art are, to sell "such land for the non-payment of taxes" ; that is, that land which a party claims under
the deed, and from his actual residence of seven years upon it.
Can it be said, then, when the auditor, as he did in this instance, sells land for non-payment of taxqs short of the time
that the law authorizes him to sell, that he was an officer authorized to sell such land for the non-payment of taxes? We
think not. This interpretation is more in harmony with the
title which the act requ. a, before its protection can attach. A
title and seven years' actual residence upon the land are necessary. The legislature must have meant by title something
more than a void deed upon its face; a title, at least, which
would be sufficient to induce the possessor of the land to think,
and the law. to conclude, that there was a foundation for a possession under a right which had been acquired by a purchase.
Not a mere naked possession, but one taken in good faith by
a purchaser. The protection intended by the act cannot be
better expressed than it is in the able printed argument of the
plaintiff's counsel. " The legislature intended to extend its
protection to persons who occupied land under a connected
title pri dfacie good, against proof aliunde which would rebut
or destroy such primdfacie title." This conclusion too is supported by the case of Skyles's Heirs v. King's Heirs, in 2 A. K.
Marshall. The act of 1835 was copied from the Kentucky liraiRation act of February, 1809, and after the courts of Kentucky
'had decided that "the true construction of the words of the
-statute, 'a connected title in law or equity deducible, from the
Commonwealth, does and must mean such a title when tested
by its own face, and not tried by the title of others. If the
defendant's title should be a connected title in law or equity,
supposing no other to exist upon the ground, then if he proves
seven years' posoession holding under it, the statute shall aid
him, although the plaintiff may be able to show, by the production of his own title or that of others, that the title did not in
fact nor in law pass to the defendant." Illinois having taker
the act from Kentucky, it is certainly not unreasonable to suppose that her legislators knew the construction which had been
put upon it, and meant the act to give protection according to
that construction.
We shall direct the point certified to this court ,to be answered, that the paper offered in evidence by the defendant is
a void deed upon the face of it, and was not admissible as evidence for the purpose for which it was offered.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

427

Moore v. Brown et al.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON, and Mr.
Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
Upon the statements and admissions contained in this
record, the question certified for the decision of this court is a
very narrow one; but at the same time one of much nicety
and difficulty. It is admitted that the defendants had possessed the land in dispute by actual residence thereon for th.
term of seven years next preceding the commencement of this
suit. And if they had paid the taxes during that time, it is
very clear that they were protected by the act of limitations of
1839, and the deed would in that case have been admissible
in evidence. For the suit appears to have been instituted in
1848, and riore than seven years had then elapsed after the
passage of that act. But the case as stated is silent as to the
payment of taxes; and it does not appear whether they were
or were not paid by the defendants, or by any other person.
The rights of the parties, therefore, according to the statement
as certified, must be governed by the act of lifnitations of 1835,
and not of 1839.
The act of 1835 is loose and ambiguous in its language, and
open to different interpretations. Expounded literally, it might
seem to mean that a party who had a valid title on record
should be protected in his possession after the lapse of seven
years. This certainly was not the meaning of the legislature,
because a good title of record needed no protection from a
statute of limitations. It is obvious that one of the main objects of the law was to protect the possession of persons who
purchased upon the faith of conveyances made by the public
officers of the State, who were authorized to sell and convey I
but whose deeds, from some mistakce or error of judgment on
their part, were sometimes not Valid, and conveyed no title to
the purchaser. The law was made for a new country, where
the purchasers of small tracts of land were mostly immigrants,
unacquainted with the laws regulating sales and conveyances
of real property; and many of them unacquainted even with the
language in which the laws were written. Skilful and experienced conveyancers were not to be found in every part of the
country, from whom they might take counsel. And they would
naturally and fairly rely upon conveyances lade by the officers
of the State, pu'porting to be made in the execution of their
official duty. It was manifestly the object of the law to protect the possessions of persbns of this description, and by that
means induce an agricultural population to settle in the State;
and its loose and inaccurate language ought to be interpreted

428

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et aL.

in the same spirit It gave to the original owner seven years
to assert his title. And if he chose for that period of time to
acquiesce in the sale, and to suffer the purchaser and those
claiming under him to possess and improve the land as their
own, he was barred by his laches. And it undoubtedly also
intended to prevent persons from prying into titles and searching for legal defects in older possessions, for the purposes of
speculation, where the party holding them had honestly bought
and paid his money, and the original owner had for seven
years acquiesced in the-sale.
It is true that the case before us admits that it appears by
the recitals in the deed of the auditor that the notice of the
sale was not as long as the law required. And it is said that
every person is presumed, to know the law, and that every one
who afterwards purchased under this title must {herefore be
presumed to have known that this deed was void.
Undoubtedly, as a general principle, every one is chargeable
with a knowledge of the law in civil as well as criminal cases.
This, however, is a legal presumption which every one knows
has no real foundation in fact, and has been adopted because
it is necessary as a general rule for the purposes of justice.
And laws are therefore often passed to protect persons who
have acted in good faith in matters of property from the consequences of their ignorance of law. Thus, laws confirming
defective and void deeds for real property have frequently been
passed in some of the States; and their validity has been recognized by this court. Limitation laws in regard to suits for
real estates are founded upon the same principle. For if the
title papers of the party in possession are all legally executed,
and made by persons who had the right to convey, he does not
need the- protection of an act of limitations. The act before
us was evidently and especially intenlded to protect purchasers
from the consequences of their ignorance of the law. And
with this object in view, it could make n difference whether
the legal defect was shown by the recitals in the deed, or appeared in any other way, The buyer would be as easily and
naturally misled by his-want of legal information in either
case. And the law itself certainly draws no distinction betveen ignoiance of the-law 'in one respect and ignorance in
another. And if every legal defect in the title papers of a purchaser in possession, as they appear on the record, may be used
against him after the lapse of seven years, the law itself is P
nullity, and protects nobody.
To a person not well skilled in all the details of the tax laws
of the' State, this deed upon the face of it appears to be good.
It was made by a public officer authorized to sell.for taxes.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

429

Moore v. Brown et al.

From his official station and duties, he would be presumed to
be familiar with the tax laws in all their minute details. And
he recites what he had done; states the notice given, as if it
was the notice the law required; and professes to convey to the
purchaser a valid title in due form. Almost every one, not perfectly acquainted with the different tax laws which had been
passed, would rely upon it. And I think it is one of those
defective conveyances by a public officer, which the law of
1835 intended to protect after a possession of seven years.
It is said in the argument, and a judicial decision is quoted
to support it, that the limitation is confined to cases where
the title upon the record appears to be a valid legal title until
a better one is produced. If that be the construction of the law,
it protects .the purchaser where, by the mistake of the officer,
land has been sold upon which no taxes were due, provided
the deed upon the face of it appears to be valid, and refuses to
protect him where the taxes were actually duie and the land
liable, provided an error in the proceedings appears in the recitals in the deed, In other words, it bars the recovery of the
innocent owner whose land has been wrongfully sold, and protects the defaulter. Such could hardly have been the intention
of the legislature. And in my opinion the language of the law
does not justify this construction. Indeed, if it be as contended
for in the argument, then a mere oversight in reciting the date.,
of the notice or date of the sale deprives the purchaser and
those claiming under him of the protection of this law, although the taxes were due, and the sale regularly and fairly
made. For the error will appear in the recorded instrument,
and consequently it is not a good and valid title on record.
And this may have been the case in the deed before us.
The consideration paid at the tax sale is indeed so small, as
to create doubts of the fairness of the transaction. But that
question is not open in this court upon the point certified.
The statement in the record does not impfite bad faith to
either of the parties to this sale, and moreover the present defendants were not the original purchasers. For aught that
appears in the statement, they purchased for a full consideration, and without any actual knowledge or suspicion of a defect
in the title, and have therefore strong equitable considerations
to support them in claiming the protection of this statute of
limitations.
I am sensible, however, as I have already said, that the construction of this statute is by no means free fron difficulty.
But as I do not concur in the interpretation given to it by a
majority of my brethren, and the decision of the question
certified may affect wider interests than those immediately

430

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown

et aL

involved in this suit, I have felt it my duty to state the
grounds on which I dissent.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
MIy objections to h~aring this case are so strong, that I deem
it proper to state them. This court stands exposed to impositions by fictitious cases more than 'other courts do, for several
reasons. Wbhave adopted it as a rule-of practice, that third
persons cannot be heard to prove before us that a case pending
on our docket is feigned, and a decision sought at our hands
intended alone to affict other men's rights, by combination of
the parties of record.
In the case of Patterson v. Gaines, the attempt was made,
but refused, because the persons applying to dismiss the case,
were no parties of record, and had no right to be heard.
This of necessity throws us on the case itself, as here prcsented by the record, to ascertain whether it is fictitious. It
is a case made on a certificate of division ; and as those divisions of opinion are usually granted of course, on facts agreed
by the parties, and as they have been ordinarily granted without examination on part of the court, by way of concession,
if requested by both sides, (as is the case here,) we are very
liable to be imposed on; certainly more so than other judicial
tribunals, where certified cases are not allowed; and as the
consequences here involved are uncommonly great, it is proper
to observe unusual care to guard against imposition.
The consequences of our decision will be apparent from the
following facts.
Military bounty lands were located and granted in Illinois
for services rendered in the war of 1812, with Great Britian,
in the name of each soldier, as it stood on the muster-roll.
This grant enures to the benefit of his heir by act of Congress.
The United States caused the lands to be located and patented
in a body, e~ceeding three millions of acres, in what is known
as the military tract in that State, which fronts on the lMississippi River, and is unsurpassed in fertility by any equal body
of land on this continent.
The land in controversy is situated in this district, and is
designated as the south half of section thirty-five, in township twelve north, of range one west of the fourth principal
meridian.
Most of these grants remained without ostensible owners
for many years, and have furnished, and continue to furnish, a
great source of speculation. On them the tax laws of Illinois
operated, and a great portion of them have been sold for taxes.
This is a prominent part of the history of Illinois. It was

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Moore

431

v. Brown et al.

stated in discussion of the case of Bruce v. Schuyler (4 Gilman, 249), that eight millions of dollars worth had been thus
sold, up to 1847. And, taking the State- throughout, a much
greater quantity than this, no doubt, is held under tax sales,
and auditor's deeds, like the one beforeus. It conforms to the
act of 1826, which prescribes a form, and applies to deeds
founded on previous and subsequent tax sales. Auditor's
deeds, in the military tract, are the most usual title. Under
this state of things, that section of country has been settled
and highly improved by a large population; cultivators confidently relying on these deeds as valid titles.
The Supreme Court of Illinois held, in the case of Garrett
v. Wiggins, 1 Scammon, 335, that the act of 1829, declaring
auditor's deeds, standing alone, as evidence of a good title,
did not apply to sales made previous to the passing of that act.
And the deed of Wiggins, not having been supported by extraneous proof that the land had been legally advertised for
sale, was declared to have been made without authority, and
was rejected. It follows, that all deeds founded on tax sales
made before 1829 are void "on their face,'! when standing
alone. They must be supported by the act of limitations, or
fall to the ground; and this support we are asked to withdraw
by our decision, proceeding on a case made up uider the following circumstances.
On the cause being taken up for trial in the Circuit Court,
plaintiff introduced his title, regularly derived from the United
States. He admitted, by special agreement, that the defendants were in possession when the suit was brought. They
then offered to prove that they had been seven years in posses.
sion, holding under a connected title derived from a public
officer, authorized by law to sell the land for non-payment of
taxes, and, as the first link in their chain of title, offered a
deed made by the auditor, which is set out. To its introduction the plaintiff objected, on the ground that, by reference to
the face of the deed, "and the law as it stood" when the sale
was made, (to wit, "An Act entitled An Act.for levying and collecting a tax on land, and other property," approved February
18, 1823,) it appeared that the sale for non-payment of taxes
had been made by the auditor "at an earlier day than he
could, according to law, possibly do; and so it occurred as a
question, whether said deed was admissible in evidence for the
purpose, and in the connection for and in which the defendants offered it, the objection aforesaid notwithstanding: on
which question the opinions of the judges were opposed."
This is the case certified for our opinion. The parties
agreed to the facts, made the case, and conjointly moved for a

432

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

certificate of division. It was especially the act of the defendants, as on their right to make d~efence we are asked to
pass judgment.
It is agreed, that they held under a void deed; that it was
not made according to law, and void on its face. They admit that the auditor did' an act which he could not possibly
do as auditor. Thus, the defendants by this agreement made
the worst case for themselves that they could make, and the
best case for their adversary that could be made up, for the
purpose of having a decision against the defendants on the'act
of limitations. This is manifest, and not open to dispute. No
power is left to this court to inquire whether the auditor had,
or had not, authority to sell for taxes due in the years 1821
and 1822, by advertising in advance of October 1, 1823, for
three weeks, and selling afterwards, in December, when the
eighty-two days required by the act of 1823 had expired from
the first advertisement.
The 26th section of the act declares, that the first sale of
lands made by the auditor shall take place in December, 1823;
at what time in December, the act does not provide. It depends on a true construction of the law. But the agreement
cuts off all power of inquiring as to what the true construction
of the law is; it concludes the question, and forces us to hold
that the auditor sold without authority, and that his deed is
void on its face; whereas the deed recites, that the land had
beeni sold "in conformity with all the regulations of the several
acts in such cases made and provided." It refers to no one
articular law, and is fair on its face; nor could any man, not
earned in the law, suppose to the contrary. Certainly not
Illinois farmers, many of whom do not even read or speak our
language.
In the next place, a written argument is furnished to us by
the plaintiff,. coming from Illinois, presenting his case in the
most cogent manner, on which it is submitted; whereas, the
defendants make no appearance here by counsel, set up no defence, but give the plaintiff every advantage he may desire,
or can possibly have. As I have never known a real contest
thus conducted, my mind is led to the conclusion, that this is
a fictitious proceeding, intended to open a door for speculation,
and to affect the rights of others, and that it ought not to be
acted on by this court. But as a majority of my brethren are
unwilling to dismi:s the case, and have proceeded to decide
the question whether a deed purporting to be founded on a
tax sale, and which is void on its face (when compared with
that law), furnishes color of title, I of course acquiesce, and
will briefly examine that question.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

433

Moore v. Brown et al.

For the purpose of arriving at a proper construction of the
act of limitations of Illinois, the previous legislation of that
State must be taken into consideration, so far as it. can be
done, from the meagre information we have been enabled to
collect. From this legislation, so far as it is ascertained, it appears that the auditor was bound by law to make deeds to
purchasers at tax sales, according to the prescribed form given
by the act of 1826. These deeds were ordered to be recorded.
The one before us is in the prescribed form, and stood duly
recorded when the act of limitations was passed.
The act requires actual residence on the land for seven
years, under a connected title deducible of record from the
State, or from the United States, or from any public officer
authorized by the laws of the State to sell lands for the nonpayment of taxes.
This act is peculiar in its terms, and was made under peculiar circumstances. It wa., unquestionably made, as it seems
to me, to protect actual settlers and cultivators, whose titles
were liable to exception, against speculators and others having
better titles, but who should neglect to avail themselves of their
legal advantage within the time limited. In order to make a
successful defence, it was necessary for these defendants to
prove a seven years' residence on the land, under a connected
title deducible of record from the State of Illinois, or from some
public officer acting for the State, authorized to sell for nonpayment of taxes. The auditor was such officer. He acted
fo*r the State; and a title in all respects emanating directly
from the State is exhibited in support of a seven years' possession. A connection with a patent from the United States
is equally clear. The land was assumed to be sold by force of
lien for taxes due; such sale carried the true owner's title
throughout, including the patent, regardless of the fact in
whose name the land was advertised and sold. So the laws
of Illinois expressly provide. No fuirther connection of title can
exist; nor does the act of limitations require more. But to
avoid its force, an attempt is made to introduce an exception
not found in the act, which of necessity comes to this, that
if the deed is void for legal defect, or for a defect which de.
pends on evidence, a link in the chain of title is wanting.
m
If it be true that the purchaser under a tax sale and deed is
bound to ascertain the law, and if the deed is found to be void
when tested by the law, and the acts done under it, no connection can be established, nor protection had, under the act of
limitations; then the statute is a mere delusion, as it can only
be resorted to where there is a good title..
The act was not thus idly made. It has no reference to
VOL. x1.
37

434

SUPREME

COURT.

Moore u. Brown et al.

titles good in themselves, but was intended to protect apparent
titles, void in law, and to supply a defence where none existed
without its aid. Its object was repose. It operates inflexibly,
and on principle, regardless of particular cases of hardship.
The condition of society, and protection of ignorance as to
what the law was, required the adoption of this rule. This is
plainly so. It was not to be expected that immigrants into a
new c6untry like Illinois, who came there seeking lands for
homes, were capable of judging what complicated revenue
laws required to be done to make a valid tax sale. If they
found a title of record from a public officer, such as the auditor
was, having general power to sell for non-payment of taxes, they
were authorized to believe such title a good'-one, and to purchase under it. And it would be bad policy, and unjust, after
the land had been imprc-ied by their labor, and increased in
value perhaps twenty-fold, during a long possession, to tun
them off, even by a meritorious owner, if he did not come in
time. And still worse policy would it be, to leave them
open to speculating purchasers, buying up doubtful titles
over their heads, under the act of 145, which allows of such
purchases in Illinois. Harassment and ruin inflicted on the
unsuspecting many, by the well-informed and unscrupulous
few, must be, as it ever has been, the consequence of stripping
cultivators of the soil of their titles by unfavorable and strained
constructions; and therefore acts of limitation have at all
times been liberally construed to protect cultivators in homes
where their families were, and had usually grown up. And as
the act of Illinois applies to actual residents, and to no others,
it is entitled to a liberal construction. The one contended for
is, that he who takes title by deed of record, or under one
claiming by deed of record, made by a public officer with general power to sell for non-payment of taxes, is bound to know
the law authorizing the officer to sell and convey; and if he
fails to ascertain the law by negligence, he is held to knowledge that power was wanting, if such be the fact; that, purchasing with presumed knowledge, his title is taken in bad
faith; his deed is tainted with fraud, and is no deed, but is as
blank paper; and being so, a link in the chain of title is wanting, and the statute cannot apply, fdr want of connection of
title.
This is the sum and substance of the reasoning employed
on behalf of plaintiff to reject the application of the statute.
Now, is this a liberal construction? Is it not in effect a repeal
of the statite, and the most harsh construction that can be
given to it? As, if this assumption be true, no possible conveyance' made by a public officer, which is void because the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

435

Moore v. Brown et al.

requisite forms of law have not been complied with, can be
maintained. All must equally fall, if not good in themselves,
when compared with the law, and the acts required by law to
be done before the sale is made.
We have been referred to various decisions which are supposed to support this doctrine, and especially to that made by
the Court of Appeals in Kentucky in 1820, in the case of
Skyles v. King, 2 A. K. Marsh. 385. This case has had controlling influence in our investigations; by far more than all others.
It was this. The elder patent ws made to King. Skyles
claimed and held under a younger patent, and seven years'
adverse possession. He was defendant. The statute of Kentucky declares, that to form the bar there shall be "a connected
title in law or equity, deducible of record from the Commonwealth." On a trial before a jury, it was insisted that, by the
terms of the act, it applied to the elder patent set up by plqintiff; that with his patent there must be connection to form a
bar. And so the Circuit Court held the true meaning of the
act to be, and so instructed the jury. But the Court of Appeals thought otherwise, and reversed the judgment, holding
that the act meant a title tested by its own face; that is, commencing with the younger patent, and connecting with that,
regardless of the elder and adversary title; that the act had no
reference to the elder patent. There, the first link (the younger
patent) was void, and this plainly appeared of record, as all
patents in Kentucky are recorded; it follows, that, if that decision is adopted as a true construction of the Illinois statute,
the case before us must be decided for the defendants; qs here
the first title paper offered by them is in the same condition as
the younger Kentucky patent.
The ease- in this court of Patton's Lessee v. Easton, 1
Wheat. 476, and of Walker v. Turner, 9 Wheat. 541, are also
relied on as in point. The latter one is clearly so. It held
that a void sheriff's deed was no deed, and could not be given
in evidence as a link in the chain of title, nor be upheld by
seven years' adverse possession, under the act of limitations of
Tennessee, which required a title by grant, or deed of conveyance founded on a grant, to form a bar; and which was construed to require connection of title. This court followed the
supposed settled construction of the courts of Tennessee on
their own statute. But this was a mistake, there not being
any such settled construction.
In 1832, the- ease of Green v. Neal, 6 Peters, 291, again
brought before this court the same question on the Tennessee
act. At that time, all controversy was settled by a decision
of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, in the case f Gray and

436

SUPREME COURT.
Moore v. Brown et al.

Reeder v. Darby's Lessee, Martin & Yerger, 396, which held
that a sheriff's sale and deed, made pursuant to a void judgment, in a case where no jurisdiction existed in the court entering such judgment, was a sufficient connection of title;
that to hold otherwise would be requiring a good connected
title, and a virtual repeal of the statute. This decision was
followed in the case of Green v. Neal; and all the former cases
decided by this court on the Tennessee act, holding that a
void deed broke the connection, were overruled, and are of no
authority anywhere. They merely followed a supposed settled
construction in the first two cases, and a settled one in the last
case of Green v. Neal. And so we would now be bound to
follow the settled construction of the courts of Illinois, if any
such existed, on the statute before us.
My opinion, therefore, is, that it ought to be certified to the
Circuit Court, that the auditor's deed should be admitted in
evidence, and that it furnishes color of title on which the act
of Jimitations could operate.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Illinois, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeable to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
pf this court, that the paper offered in evidence by the defendant is a void deed on the face of it, and was not admissible as
evidence for the purpose for which it was offered. Whereupon
it is now here ordered and adjudged, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

