294

SUPREME COURT.
Hogan et al. v. Rosr.

GEORGE W.

PHILLIPS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V'. JOHN 'S. PRESTON.

A writ of error abated where the death of the plaintiff in error was suggested, and
leave granted to make proper parties at December term, 1846, representatives not
yet having been made.

THIS cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana. And it appearing to the court
here that, upon the suggestion of the death of the plaintiff in
error by his counsel, leave was granted by this court to make
the representatives of the deceased parties at a prior term of
this court, to wit, at December term, 1846, and tht the proper
representatives have not yet been made, it is thAi-eupon now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this writ of error
be, and the same is hereby, abated, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be
proceeded in according to law and justice.

S. HOGAN, AND REUBEN Y. REYNOLDS,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. AARON Ross, wno SUES FOR THE USE
OF ROBERT PATTERSON.

SMITH HOGAN, ART=U

Where a ease was dismissed by this court for waut of a citation, and the plaintiff in
error sued out another writ, and applied to this court for a supersedeas to stay execution in the court below, the application cannot be granted.
This court is not authorized to grant a supersedeas unless the writ of error has been
sued out within ten days after the rendition of the judgment, and in conformity
with the provisions of the twenty-third section of the act of 1789.

The cases of Stockton and Moore v. Bishop (2 Howard, 74) and Hardeman v. Anderson (4 Howard, 640) explained.

THIS case was pending under a writ of error issued to the
District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Afississippi.
The following motion and affidavit were filed by the counsel for the plaintifls in error, viz.: "This case was depending before this court at its last term
upon a writ of error, operating as a supersedeas, and was then
dismissed because the record did not show that a citation had
been issued and served on the defendant in error. Since the last
term of this court, the plaintiffs have sued out another writ of
error, executed another bond, filed a complete record of the

