104

SUPREME COUSRT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

so as to give it boundaries, And secondly, if it could be identified, that no occupation and inhabitationwere ever taken according to the terms of the grant,'and therefore the claim is
without equity according to the laws of Spain.
Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court,
witn directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants in this
cause.

EvAuisTE BLANC, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. GEO GE W. LAFA'ETTE ANn
JOHN HAGAN.
In 1816 the register and receiver of a land dee, acting under the authority of a
law, reported as follows: "W3 are of -opn n that all the claims included under
the second species of the first class are already confirmed by the act of Congress
of the 12th of April, 1814.
In 1820 Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at Large, 573) confirming all those claims
which were recommended in the report for confirmation.
But where the commissioners erred in placing a claim in the second species of the
first class, and erred in supposing that such a claim was already confirmed by the
act of 1814, these errors prevent the act of 1820 from confirming the claim. It is
consequently invalid.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
By agreement of counsel in the State court, many .original
documents were used in the trial in the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, which were left out of the record when it was
transmitted tG this court. It did not, therefore, furnish all the
facts necessary for a complete statement of the case, which,
however, have been taken from other authentic sources.
It was a conflict between a patent issued for some land near
New Orleans to General Lafayette, in 1825, and a clam advanced by Blanc under an old Spanish alleged grant. If the
latter was not good, the patent to Lafayette covered the land
in dispute. Blanc claimed under Liotaud.
On the 23d of May,.4801, Louis Liotaud presented a petition to the Intendant Morales, praying that a tract of public
land be 'granted to him, having six arpents front on the left
bank of Canal Carondelet, with the ordinary depth, if there
should be such a depth vacant, being bounded on the one side
by the land of Carlos Guardiola, and on all the other sides by

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

105

Blanc z. Lafayette et al.

public land. He states as a reason which entitled him to the
favorable notice of the Intendant, that his object was to estab.
lish a large garden and drain the land, which would be advantageous to the public, and contribute to the salubrity of the
city. And he bound himself to conform to the regulations relating to grants of land.
On this petition uU order was made on February 11, 1802,
which is attested by Carlos Ximenes, the notary, in these
words: " Vistos: pasese este expediente al agrimensor gnl.
Don Carlos Trudeau para que en vista de el informe lo conbeniente." " Let this petition be referred to the Surveyor-Gen.
eral, Don Carlos Trudeau, in order that he may report his
opinion thereon."
These appeared to be all the papers to support the claim.
No survey was ever made, nor any report upon the petition.
On the 12th of April, 1814, Congress passed an act (1 Land
Laws, 242) confirming certain claims in Louisiana. The title
of the act is, "An Act for the final adjustment of land titles in
the State of Louisiana and Territory of Missouri." By it
certain claims were confirmed which bad been presented to
the register or recorder of land titles in the mode pointed out
by a preceding law. Liotaud had filed a claim in the landoffice, stating in his application,"4 This land is claimed by virtue
of proceedings had before the Spanish intendancy in 1801 and
1802, of which proceedings the accompanying document is a
true copy, as taken from the original in the register's office for
the eastern district of Louisiana."
On the 20th of November, 1816, the eommission., made
their report, and noticed this claim as follows : " Louis Liotaud claims a tract of land situated in the county
of Orleans, on the left bank of the Canal Carondelet, leading
to the Bayou St. John, containing six arpents in front andforty in depth, and bounded on one side by lands grante.d by
the Spanish government to Carlos Guardiola, and on the other
side by vacant lands. This tract of land is claimed by virtue
of an order of survey dated in the year 180.."
The commissioners included this claim in the second species
of the first class of claims, oA which the board reported as follows: " We are of opinion that all the claims included under
the second species of the first class are already confirmed by the
act of Congress of the 12th of April, 1814.
On the 16th of January, 1817, the Commissioner of the General Land-Office transmitted this report to Congress, and on
the 11th of May, 1820, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at
Large, 573), entitled "An Act supplementary to the several
acts for the adjustment of land claims in the State of Louisiana.'

106

SUPREME COURT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

The first section of this act was as follows: "That the
claims for lands within the eastern district of the State of
Louisiana, described by the register and receiver of the said
district in their report to the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office bearing date on the 20th of November, 1816, and
recommended in the said report for confirmation, be, and the
same are hereby, confirmed against any claim on the part of
the United States."
So the matter stood until the year 1825, when, as has been
already mentioned, a patent was issued to General Lafayette,
which included the land claimed by Liotaud.
On the 1st of May, 1841, George Washington Lafayette,
residing in France, and John Hagan, residing at New Orleans,
brought a petitory action against Evariste Blanc, who claimed
under Liotaud. The defendant alleged that he then was, and
had been for more than a year before the commencement of
the suit, in .quiet possession of the land, and denied the plaintiffs' possession or right of possession. He also pleaded the
prescription of twenty and thirty years.
In May, 1846, the cause came on for trial in the Parish
Court in and for the parish and city of New Orleans, when
therfe was a judgment for the defendant. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, by which, in January, 1848, tue judgment of the Parish Court was reversed; and
to review this decision, upon the ground that his claim was
confirmed by an act of Congress, Blanc sued out a.writ of
error, and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Bullard, for the plaintiff in error, and
by lilr. ."anin, in a printed argument, for the defendants in
error.
lAIr. Bullard stated the case, and then proceeded.
The only question, therefore, which this court is called upon
to solve is, whether the claim of Louis Liotaud was confirmed
by the act of the 11th of May, 1820, and to that act and the
report of the register and receiver to which it relates, I proceed
to invite the attention of the court.
The report of Harper and Lorrain was made in November,
1816, and was laid before Congress by the Secretary of the
Treasury. It is to be found in extenso in the State Papers
(Public Lands), Vol. III. pp. 254 et seq.
The claim of Liotaud, numbered 409, is classed by the register and receiver iji the second species 'f the first class.
The act of the 11th of May, 1820, provides, that "all claims
described ini this report and recommended for confirmation are
confirmed." See Laws, Instructions, and Opinions, 1st part,
p. 330, Act of 11th May, 1820.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

107

Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

In determining what particular claims were confirmed by
this act, the court ought, I think, to look at the whole report
together, and if it appears that the register and receiver regarded them as valid claims under the various acts of Congress,
in whatever form of words that opinion was expressed, a liberal
construction should be given to the act. It is true the register
and receiver say in relation to the claims classed with this,.that
in their opinion they are already confirmed by a previous act
of Congress in 1814. In this they were perhaps mistaken; but
surely it is a strong form of expression of an opinion that they
ought to be confirmed. The court below gave a very narrow
and illiberal construction to the act, and, seizing upon this expression, declared that it was a mistake, and that the act did
not confirm this claim. If they had looked further into the report they would have found that the commissioners make favorable mention of this claim, although they say they may
have been mistaken in supposing that it had already been confirmed. The truth is, as it appears to me, all the claims thus
classed, all that were not rejected by the register and receiver,
were, according to a just and liberal construction of the act,
treated as valid claims under the treaty, and confirmed by the
act of 1820. They have always been so freated and regarded
by the Land Department of the government, and-this very
claim is laid down on the public surveys of the township in
which it is situated.
If, then, in 1820, the government relinquished its title to the.
land in controversy in favor of a claimant under an inchoate
Spanish grant, it seems quite clear that the same land could
not validly be patented to General Lafayette in 1825, as a donation, or in remuneration for eminent 'public services.

It no

longer belonged to the domain. It is true no patent ever issued to the confirmee, but the act of 1820 does not provide for
patents in such cases, and I presume this court will hold that
the act itself is a legislative grant of land with specific bqundaries, and that the act of Congress, together with a location
and survey approved by the Surveyor-General, is equivalent to
a patent. Such is the.view taken of it by the Department of
the Interior. I admit the general rule to be, that the legal title is still in the domain until a patent issues, but that rule
only applies to cases in which, by law, a patent is required for
the perfection of the title of the confirmee or purchaser, or
other grantee.
The court of Louisiana further erred in looking behind the
confirmation, and deciding that the primitive inchoate title was
not valid according to the laws and usages of the government
of Spain. They cite some old cases from the Louisiana Re-

SUPREME COURT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

ports to that effect, but those were cases in which neither party
had a legal title; both held under comtnissioners' certificates,
and had only equitable titles, and the court decided upon the
comparative value of the primitive titles. When the register
and receiver have recommended an ancient Spanish title for
confirmation, and it has accordingly been confirmed by an act
of Congress, I conceive that it is conclusive and cannot be
opened. But even if the court had a right to look behind the
confirmation, it was in error in supposing that the imperfect
title of Liotaud 'was not valid under the Spanish law. In
1798, the Governor-General was deprived by a royal cedula of
the right of granting lands, and that authority was vested -in
the intendancy. The forms of proceeding in the tribunal of
the" intendant, with a view of obtaining a grant of land, are
familiar to this court. The person who desired to obtain a
concession of land presented his petition (requite) to the intendant. The intendant, through the medium of a notary,
made a written order referring it to the surveyor-general, in
order to ascer'tain whether the land was vacant. In the particular case now before the court this was done. It does not
appear that the surveyor-general made any particular report,
but it does appear that he noted on -a general plot of land near
New Orleans, made by order of the government, the tract of
land solicited by Liotaud. Here all further proceedings were
arrested by the change of government in 1803. The papers
were filed in the office of the intendant, and marked with
others "instancias vpendientes," or proceedings yet pending.
The order, or auto, of the intendant must be regarded as a pri-'
mero decrelo, and equivalent to a warrant or order of survey
under the preceding forms of proceeding while the- governor
had the power to grant lands; although the land thus solicited did not become the property, strictly speaking, of the petitioner, yet under numerous decisions of this court I submit
whether it did not confer such" a right as was protected by the
treaty of cession. Be that, however, as it may, the question
now is, whether the claim founded on such a commencement
of title has been recommended by the commissioners for
confirmation, and confirmed by act of Congress; if so, it
clearly amounts to a relinquishment of title on the part of the
United States from the date of the act of Congress, and in
1825, the date of Lafayette's patent, must" be regarded as a
rightful claim, and not embraced in the grant to Lafayette by
his patent.

ML/r. .Tanin, for the defendants in error, made the following
points: -

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

109

Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

1st. There never was a grant or order of survey, or even a
permission of settlement, in favor of Liotaud. There was a
petition and an order to Trudeau to give his opinion on it, and
that is all. The petition was of the 23d of May, 1801, the
order was not made on it until the11th of February, 1802.
And we have a plan introduced by the defendant, dated the
1st of March, 1802, purporting to be a plan of the concessions
in the neighborhood of New Orleans, executed by Trudeau
by order of Morales. On this the land claimed by the defendant is designated as " Terreno solivitado per Don Louis
Lioto (Liotaud)." Trudeau, therefore, knew of this claim, and
if he did not report on it, it vws not unintentionally. Possibly
he knew that it conflicted with the claims of Castillon and
Griffon (see Turner's survey of 1825), possibly he thought
that the land ought to be reserved for the commons of the city;
but whatever might be his reason, certain it is that he did not
report on it, still less survey it. Adjoining this is another tract,
marked on that plan " Terreno solicitado per Don Gilberto
Guillernard." That tract was no doubt claimed and petitioned
for in the same manner and form as Liotaud's. And yet it is
included in the undisputed portion of General Lafayette's
grant. Very probably the petition was, and perhaps still is, in
the same bundle of "instanciaspendientes" in which Liotaud's
ipetition was found. And as Liotand's petition was No. 107,
fol. 61 (see Lawson's certificate) of the "instancias pendientes," we have the assurance that there are at least 106 other
such claims which have the same merit as Liotaud's. But he
was the only one to claim a confirmation on an abandoned,
neglected, or rejected.petition. And he did not (see his notice)
pretend that he had an order of survey. His claim was based
It is thus he qualified his petition and the
on "proceedings."
order of reference. But no Spanish law or act of Congress
is extant recognizing a claim to land merely because it was
asked for.
2d. This claim has never been confirmed:. This case is
identical with that of Orillon v. Slack, 11 La. Rep. .591. Reboul and Franchebois's claims, discussed in that case, are
embraced in the same repor6 as Liotaud's, and separated from
The
it by only three claims. S Public Lands, 255, 2.56.
court held that the report of the register and receiver of November 20, 1816, that these claims were already confirmed by
the act of April 12, 1814, was not a recommendation that they
should be confirmed, and as the act of May 11, 1820, confirmed
only such claims as were embraced in the report and recommended for confirmation, it did not confirm the claims'
in question. The register and receiver did not recommend
VOL. X1.

10

SUPREME COURT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

them for confirmation, because in their opinion they were already confirmed. Whether they were right or wrong in this
opinion, they certainly did not recommend them. They left
them where they were. Orn such claims as were confirmed by
the act of April 12, 1814, they were not to make a report recomumending them for a second confirmation, nor did they do
so; but they were authorized, by the third section of that act,
to issue at once cert.ificates of confirmation, which the Commissioner of the General Land-Office was to examine, and
which were to be followed by patents. The opinion expressed
in the report of November 20, 1816, on these claims, is a disclaimer of jurisdiction, and no more. That opinion has never
been taken into consideration or sanctioned by Congress; it is
therefore of no weight with the court, who must examine for
'themselves whether indeed the act of April 12, 1814, did confirm Liotaud's claim. And by examining that act it will appear beyond argument that the opinion of the register End
receiver was erroneous.
The confirmatory provisions of that act are contained in the
first and second sections. They confirmed only claims which
were embraced in previous reports of commissioners, or registers and receivers, and which were based on incomplete
Frehch or Spanish grants or concessions, or warrants or orders of survey, which had been filed in the proper offices, and
when it appeared by the report of the commissioners, or registers and receivers, that the concession, warrant, or order of
survey contained a special location, or had been actually lo.
cated or surveyed before the 20th of December, 1803. None
of thevarious kinds of claims confirmed by that act resembles
Liotaud's.
3d. General Lafayette's patent was issued in strict compliance with the acts of Congress relating to this subject. He
was first to locate the land, then have it surveyed, and on the
presentation of the survey, together with the certificate of the
register, stating that the land is not-rightfully claimed by any
other person, the patent was to issue. On the survey in evidence in this claim, the land involved in this suit is represented
as vacant.
But the defendant contends that the register was mistaken,
that the certificate should have shown that this land "was
rightfully claimed by Liotaud," and that his rights could not
be defeated by the register's error.
It is more than probable that the register, when he gave
that certificate, discovered that his error was in having expressed, in 18t6, the opinion that Liotaud's claim was already
confirmed. And having discovered this error, it was his duty
to state that this ]and was vacant-

DECEMBER- TERM, 1850.

111

Blani v. Lafayette et al.

4th. If it was true that Liotaud's claim was confirmed by
the act of May If, 1820, and had it been patented, it would
yet have to give way to General Lafayette's patent. Liotaud
could only obtain a confirmation and a patent in defiance of
law. "If the patent has been fraudulently obtained, or issued against law, it is void." Stoddard et al. v. Chambers,
2 Howard, 318. If a confirmation has been fraudulently obtained, no certificate of survey will be issued, and the patent
will be withheld. Opinion of Attorney-General Wirt, of November 25,1824, Collection of Laws, Opinions, and Instructions
relating to the Public Lands, Vol. II. p. 24. Opinion of Attorney-General B. F. Butler, of July 31, 1839, Ibid. p. 1040.
Such a confirmation, such a patent as are here hypothetically
assumed to have taken place, could only be the result of fraud.
It was a fraud on Liot..ad's part to present his petition as
giving him a claim to land, and to rely upon the register and
receiver's ignorance of the Spanish language. If those officers
had recommended such a claim for confirmation, it would also
on their part have been either fraud, or such gross negligence
as the law assimilates to fraud. Intending not to act on this
claim or recommend it for confirmation, they examined it perhaps very hastily, and allowed themselves the more easily to be
misled by Liotaud's misrepresentations.
5th. Had Liotaud's claim been confirmed, either by the act
of April 12, 1814, or by that of May 11, 1820, it would yet
not have severed the land from the domain, for the claim is indefinite and its location uncertain, it never was surveyed, and
no plan was filed with it when the confirmation was claimed.
It was a claim for six arpents front on the left bank of Canal
Carondelet, with the ordinary depth, if that depth could be
found, bounded on one side by the land of Carlos Guardiola,
and on all the other sides by public land. " Until a concession is located, it can give no claim to any specific tract of
land." Bissell v. Penrose, 8 Howard, 341.
The description in the claim would permit its location on
one side of Guardiola's land as well as on the other. Guardiola owned two arpents front on Canal Carondelet, running
back between parallel lines to Gravier's plantation; this strip
of land is nearly parallel to the real line of the city of New
Orleans, and half a mile distant from it. If Liotaud's claim
was located on the city side of-Guardiola's land, it would conflict with General Lafayette's 114 acres; if located on the other
side, no conflict would exist between those parties. The direction of the said lines and the 'xtent of the claim are equally
uncertain. Nor is the obscurity of the claim removed by possession, for Liotaud never exercised any act of possession, and

SUPREME COURT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

thi plaintiff in error was the first to attempt equivocal acts of
possession, the land being all swamp.
This case falls under the principles discussed in Bissell v.
Penrose, 8 Howard, 332. There a New Madrid patent was
declared void, because it had been located upon land duly
claimed under a Spanish concession, and therefore withheld
from sale. And it was admitted that, if the Spanish concession had not been located by a survey, the patent would have
prevailed; in other words, the land would have been considered
as public property not detached, from the domain. Whether
the act of Congress, by which a claim is confirmed, requires
the issuing of a patent or not, a definite designation by a survey is equally necessary to separate the land from the domain
and deprive the United States of the right of disposing of it
Such has also always been the doctrine of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana. In the present case that court said (3 Annual
Reports, 61): "This location, unsupported by any survey, or
by actual possession, before the change of government, would
be too indefinite and uncertain to prejudice the plaintiffs in
error [here the defendants]. We take the rule to be, that, in
order that the confirmation may have the force and effect of a
patent the description in the inchoate title, or in the act of
Congress, must be such as will identify the land. If it will fit
another place better, or equally well, it is defective, and will
not protect the holder who can show no original possession
against a subsequent location, made under the authority of
tongress." See also Lefebvre v. Comau, 11 La. Rep. 321.
Mr. Justice -WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error having claimed the land in dispute
under an act of Congress, and-the construction of that act by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana having been against the claim,
the case is brought here under the twenty-fifth section of the
judiciary acf of 1789, to have the opinion given in that court
reviewed by this tribunal.
The question presented is, whether or not the claim of Louis
Liotaud for a tract of land situated in the Eastern District of
Louisiana was confirmed by the act of Congress of the 11th
of May, 1820 (3 Stat. at Large, 573), against any claim to the
land by the United States, so that an entry could not be made
upon it in favor of Major-General Lafayette.
The plaintiff in error claims under Liotaud. That claim will
be found in 3 American State Papers, Public Lands, 224.
It is, "that Louis Liotaud claims a tract of land, situated in
the county of Orleans, on the left bank of the Canal Carondelet, leading to the Bayou St. John, containing six arpents in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

113

Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

front, and forty in depth, and bounded on one side by lands
granted by the Spanish government to Carlos Guardiola, and
on the other side by vacant lands. This tract of land is claimed by virtue of an order of survey dated in the year 1802."
This memorandum is found in the report of the commissioners for ascertaining and adjusting claims to land in the eastern
district of the State of Louisiana. It was transmitted to Congress on the 16th of January, 1817, by Josiah Meigs, the Geveral Land Commissioner. 3 American State Papers, Public
Lands, 222.
The claims were divided into three general classes :1. Such as stand confirmed by law.
2. Those which the register and receiver thought ought to
be confirmed.
3. Such claims as in their opinion could not be connrmea
under existing laws.
The first class comprehended three species of claims :1. Such as were founded on complete titles, granted by the
French or Spanish governments. 2. Claims resting upon incomplete French or Spanish grants or concessions, warrants, or
orders of survey, granted prior to the 20th of December, 1803.
3. Claims rejected by a former board of commissioners, merely
because the lands claimed were not inhabited on the 20th of
December, 1803.
Liotaud's claim is put by the register and receiver in the
second species. 3 American State Papcrs, Public Lands, 224.
This report was acted upon by Congress. It declared that
"the claims for lands within the eastern district of the State of
Louisiana, described by the register and receiver of the .said
district, in their report to the Commissioner of the General ""
Land-Office, bearing date the 20th of November, 1816, and
recommended in the said report for confirmation, be, and the
same are hereby, confirmed against any claim on the part of the
United States." Act of May 11, "820, ch. 87, ยง 1 (3 Stat. at
Large, 573).
The register and receiver had said in their report, that all the
claims included under the second species of the first class were
already confirmed by the act of Congress of the 12th of April,
1814. In this they were certainly mistaken, as they were also
in placing Liotaud's claim in what was termed in their report
the second species of the first class of claims.
The record does not contain a copy of the order of survey in
favor of Liotaud, mentioned by the register and receiver, dated
as they say in the year 1802. 'Nor is there in it either of those
documentary papers, uniformly given by the intendants-general of Spain when grants of land were made. We have not
100

114

SU PRFEME COURT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et aL

before us either a grant or order of survey in favor of Liotaud.
Nothing to make the claim an inchoate right, upon which a
title could be enlarged, in favor of Liotaud. Indeed, we do not
know any thing from the record about it, and all that we do
know of the claim is the memorandum of the register and receiver already recited. That discloses that the order of survey
mentioned had been given after the cession of Louisiana by
his Majesty to the republic of France. Register Harper and
Receiver Lawrence say in their report that Liotaud's claim is
founded on an order of survey dated in the year 1802. Apart
from the consideration that the order for a survey is dated after
the time when Spain had parted with her political sovereignty
to grant land in Louisiana, there is no proof of any thing having been subsequently done by Liotaud, or by any official of
Spain, to give to Liotaud even an inchoate equity to the land.
The claim, then, could not be rightfully, nor was it understandingly, put by the register and receiver under the second species
of the first class of claims of incomplete French or Spanish
grants or concessions, warrants, or orders of survey granted
prior to the 20th of December, 1803.
Liotaud's claim, having been mistakenly put where we find
it, it is neither witHin the letter nor the intention of Lihe act
of the 11th of May, 1820, confirming titles to land described by
the register and receiver. Congress meant to confirm claims to
land under some documentary right from France or Spain, and
not claims by persons without any such proof. Liotaud's claim,
then, under which the plaintiff in error asserts his right, does
not interfere with the patent for the same land issued by the
United States in favor of Major-General Lafayette. It is admitted in the case, that the defendants in error have acquired
the rights of General Lafayette to the lands in dispute. All
of us think that there was no error in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, and its judgment is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affirmed, with costs.

