362

SUPREME COURT.
Parks v. Ross.

GEOiRGE W. PARKS, ADmINISTRATOR -OF SAMUEL PARKS, V. JOHN

Ross.
In some of the States it is the practice, after the evidence for the plaintiff is cloled,
for the defendant to pray the court to instruct the jury that there is no evidence
upon which they can find a verdict for the plaintiff.
This is equivalent to a demurrer to the evidence, and such an instruction ought to
be given whenever the evidence is not legally sufficient to serve as a foundation of
a verdict for the plaintiff.
Where the United Stktes and the Cherokee nation agreed that the latter should emigrate across the Mississippi, and the former pay the expenses thereof, and the
Cherokees undertook to conduct the movement entirely by their own agent4, a
person whose wagons had been hired could not hold the agent who had hired
them personally responsible. The owner of the wagons knew that the agent was
a public officer, and dealt with him as such.
Wherever a contract or engagement, made by a public officer, ii connected with a
subject fairly within the scope of his authority, it shall be considered to have been
made officially and in his public character, unless the contrary appears by satisfactory evidence of an absolute and unqualified engagement to be personally
liable.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
It was an action brought by Parks for services rendered by
Samuel Parks to John Ross, in the removal of the Cherokee
nation to the western side of the Mississippi, in the years
1833 and 1839. The bills of exception set forth in extenso all
the evidence offered by the plaintiff upon the trial. Some of
this evidence consisted of long documents, which it is not
deemed necessary to insert, although they were made parts of
the bills of exceptions. Their contents wiU be sufficiently understood from the following narrative.
In the year 1838, the government of the United States was
desirous to remove the Cherokee nation to their assigned habitation beyond the Mississippi River; and deputed General
Scott to -make an arrangement with them for that purpose.
The Cherokees upon their part appointed an agent with plenary powers, as appears from the following preamble to some
resolutions adopted by them in 1840 :
"And whereas, these conditions being fully settled, the
special agents of the nation, acting on the nation's behalf, after
having made divers appointments for the purpose of carrying
it into effect, in order to condense the business, did delegate its
entire superintendence to one of their body, John Ross, and by
John Ross such persons were deputed for the management of
the various departments, on account of tha nation, as were
considered best qualified for the purpose," &c.
In order to ascertain the probable expense and amount of
drafts necessary to be drawn upon the Treasury, General Scott
caused the following estimate to be made out.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

363

Parks v. Ross

Estimate for the emigration of a party of one thousand Cherokees to their country west of the Mississippi, distance eight
hundred miles, eighty days going: Fifty wagons and teams, (twenty persons to each
wagon,) at q. daily expense of $2.50, including
forage,
.
.
•
•
.
Returning, $ 7 each, for every twenty miles,
.
Two hundred and fifty extra horses, forty miles
each per day, .
..
Ferriages, &c., .
.
.
Eighty thousand rationsi at 16 cents each,
Conductor, $5 per day,
Assistant conductor, $ 3 per day,.
Physician, $ 5 per day,
.
Physician returning, $ 15 for every hundred rniles,
Commissary, $ 2.60 per day,
Assistant commissary, $ 2 per day,
Wagon-master, $ 2.50 per day,
Assistant wagon-master, $ 2 per day,
Interpreter, $ 2.50 per day,

28,000.00
14,000.00
1,000.00

1,000.00
12,800.00
400.00
240.00
500.00
120.00
200.00

160.00
200.00
160.00
200.00

$65,880.00
General Scott explained the contract in this way : " The understanding of the parties was common and distict, that the eighty days allowed for the removal of each de
tachment, by land, was a mere assumption of a basis on which
to calculate, for the moment, the advances to be made by the
United States on account of the movement, and to set it
agoing. If the advances proved to be too great, the excess
was to be paid into the treasury of the nation ; if too little, on
account of more time in the movement, the United States
were to make up the difference from the trust fund"
The Cherokees were formed into thirteen detachments, and
the removal commenced about the 1st of September, 1838;
but in consequence of sickness amongst them, a drought in
the country through which they had to pass, difficulties in
crossing the Mississippi, arid other embarrassments, the time
of removal was extended to a much longer period than. eighty
days.
Samuel Parks was a citizen of the Cherokee nation, and
John Ross hired from him four wagons and teams, to be attached to Detachment No. 11.
On the 1.8th of May, 1840, John Ross, styling himself "Principal Chief and superintending Agent of the Cherokee Nation
for Cherokee removal," presented at .account to the proper

364

UPILEME COUP.T.
Parks v. Ross.

office at Washington, claiming a balance due to the Cherokee
nation of $ 581,346.88j. Amongst his vouchers was the fol.
lowing, being one of the expenditures incurred by Detachment
No. 11, in which Parks was, with his teams: For hire of fifty-one wagons and teams, for 1,029
persons, from the 1st of November, 1838, to the
24th of March, 1839, inclusive, 144 days, at $ 5
per day, $ 36,720; allowance of 40 days for returning, at $ 7 per day each, including travelling
expenses, $ 14,280,
.
.
.
..
.
51,090.00

$

In November, 1840, the Cherokees passed some resolutions,
amongst which were the following: "Resolved, That the authority vested in the special agents,
and continued by the act of union between the Eastern and
Western Cherokees, passed at Illinois Camp-ground, on the
12th day of July, 1839, and by them conferred upon one of
their members, John Ross; as superintendent, with a view to
facilitate the duties required of them, be, and the same is here.
by, approved afid ratified.
"And further resolved, (in support of the aforesaid authority,) That by the Cherokee nation, through their national committee and 'council in national council assembled, it is hereby
ordered that the aforesaid John Ross be, and he is hereby, directed and fully empowered to proceed to Washington city,
and to urge a settlement of this claim with all possible expedition, and to apply for and receive from the government of the
United States, in the name of the Cherokee nation, the balance
due of $ 581,346.88j, as stated in the account of the emigration claim, in order that the business growing out of'it may be
brought to a final close."
On the 6th of September, 1841, Mr. John Bell, then Secretary of War, decided upon this claim, and allowed it with certain deductions.
On the 17th of September, 1841i Ross received from the
Treasury the sum of $ 486,939.50.
On the 13th of December, 1841, Ross settled an account
wifh Parks as follows :"The Cherokee Nation to Samuel Parks, depeased,
For the services of four wagons and teams, in the
emigration. of the Cherokees in Cdptain Richard Taylor's detachment, commencing the 1st of
November, 1838, up to the' 24th of March, 1839,
making 144 days, at $ 5 per day each,,

DR.

2,880.00

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

U5

Parks v. Ross.

"Ca.
By cash advanced Samuel Parks, as per receipt on
the rolls,
.
.
.
.
.
.
$1,600.00
Balance due, ..
. .
.. $1,280.00
"Received of John Ross, Superintendent of Cherokee emigration, one thousand two hundred and eighty dollars, in fAll
for the balance due of the above account.
"Signed in duplicate.
"Park Hill, Cherokee Nation, Dec. 13th, 1841.
" G. W. PARKS,
Executor of Samuel Parks,deceased."
In December, 1842, the Cherokees called upon Ross for certain information, to which be replied that "he had no moneys
in his hands subject to legislation."
In July, 1844, Parks brought an action against-Ross in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia. The declaration contained the common money counts.
In March, 1848, the cause came an for trial, when the jury,
under the instructions of the court, found a -verdict for the defendant. Upon the trial, the defendant took two: bills of exception to the admission of evidence, which were not argued
in this court in the posture of the case, and which would not
be inserted in this report, except that the plaintiff's bill of exceptions adopts them, and refers to the recapitulation of evidence contained therein.
"Before the jurors aforesaid retired from the bar of the court
here, the said plaintiff, by his attorney aforesaid, filed in court
here the following bills of exceptions, to wit: ".Defendant's First Bill of Exceptions.
" GEoRGr

W. PARKS, Administrator of SA tUEL PARKS, V. JOHN

Ross.
"On the triql of this cause the plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, offered evidence tending 'to shbw that the
plaintiff's intestate hired four ;vagons to be used, and the same
were in fact used, in the emigration of the Cherokee nation to
the west of the Mississippi, under the arrangement with General Scott, in the year 1838, and produced and read to the jury
the account and receipt of the plaintiff, as follows (copied in
pages 364, 365); and also offered to read in evidence the account
presented by the defendant to the government of the United
States, as follows (copied in page 364); with account of Detachment No. 11, in which detachment it was admitted the
31*

366

SUPREME COURT.
Parks v. Ross.

said wagons were employed, and were part of the fifty-one
wagons therein mentioned; and also the opinion and decision
of Mr. John Bell, Secretary of War, thereon; and the preamble and re.jolutions of the Cherokee nation referred to therein
(copied in page 364); and the requisition of the War Department; and the warrant on the Treasury; and the receipt of
the defendant; to all which offered evidence the defendant,
by his counsel, objects; but the court overruled the said objection, and permitted the same to be read; and the defendant, by his counsel, excepts thereto, and prays the court to
sign and seal, and cause to be enrolled, this his first bill of
exceptions, which is done accordingly, this 10th day of April,
1848.
"W.

CRANCH,

JAS. S. MORSELL."1

Defendant 's Second Bill of Exceptions.
Administrator of SArUEL PARKS, V. JOHN
Ross.
"Richard Taylor's Testimony.
"On the further trial of this cause, and after the evidence
contained in the foregoing bill of exceptions made part hereof,
the plaintiff, further to maintain the issue on his part joined,
gave evidence to show and prove, by Richard Taylor, (the said
evidence being noted in writing by the defendant's attorney,)
that he is a Cherokee, and was one of the delegates originally
appointed by that nation to enter into an arrangement with
the United States for the transportation and emigration of the
said Cherokee nation to the country set apart for them west
of Mississippi River; that he had charge of the business of
generally superintending the wagons of one detachment, in
which the wagons of the plaintiff's intestate were employed;
that shortly after they arrived in the Cherokee country he was
paid off by John Ross,-and the accounts of all those whose
wagons had been employed were settled and adjusted by the
committee or delegates, and they were paid for eighty days'
travel, and the balance was left unpaid till the money could be
received from the United States; the committee or delegates
of the emigration were all present with Ross; they were appointed by the nation in council, before they started for the
West, and never delegated their whole power to John Ross, but
always acted when they were needed. John Ross had a general order and power to eay the claims arising out of the emigration; he received the money and paid it out. Several
years ago he paid over to the Cherokeee nation $ 125,000,
"6GEORGE W.

PARKS,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

367

Parks v. Ross.

which had been sayed from the expenses of the emigration;
and being asked by the plaintiff what bad become of the
$ 180,000 received, he replied: Just before I left home to come
to the United States, Mr. Ross made a final settlement with
the nation of all the money received by him for the emigration;
being asked by plaintiff, he says it was in writing, and plaintiff
insists his answer is not evidence. He states that he is one of
te executive council of the nation, and now a delegate from
the nation to the United States.
"Being cross-examined he says: The only power Mr. Ross
had to pay claims was to pay such claims as had been passed
by the committee or delegates; that he does not know out of
what fund Mr. Ross could have saved the $ 125,000, except
the money received for return wagons; that no nrmney ever
was paid to any person, nor any claim ever presented by any
person to the committee or delegates, for 'return wagon
money ' ; that the witness himself made the contract with the
plaintiff's intestate for the hire of his wagons, and no contracd
was made for, and no reference made to, any return wagons,
for it was understood they were all to remain in the nation;
that plaintiff's intestate married the sister of witness, and was
a citizen of the Cherokee nation; that he sold and disposed of
his wagons and teams in the Cherokee nation, except one, with
which he returned to the State of Tennessee, for the purpose,
as he stated to witness, of bringing out his family; he did not
return, but died in Tennessee, and he never in his lifetime to
-witness, or with his knowledge, set up any claim for return
wagons; and witness was present when the account of plaintiff's intestate was settled, and afterwards, when the full
balance was paid to the plaintiff;- that there were various incidental expenses not estimated for originally, but which bad to
be paid by the nation, growing out of the delays and other
causes in the emigration; that they were paid by the nation,
and witness does not know out of what fund they could have
been paid, except out of the return wagon money; and witness
believes, from the facts he has stated, that. the money so paid
over by Ross to the nation, and the incidental expenses of the
emigration, were paid out of that fund.
" And thereupon, and after the testimony of the said Richard
Taylor had been given, the plaintiff further offered to read in
evidence from a certain printed document, purporting to be
Senate Document 298, 1st Session 29th Congress, two certain
papers as follows, marked B and C, (copied in record,) and
to lay a foundation therefor gave to the court the following
evidence (evidence of BTirkle and J. R. Rogers, copied in record); and the defendant objected to the admissibility of the

308

SUPREME COURT.
Parks v. Ross.

said papers so offered to be read in evidence, maintaining there
was no sufficient foundation laid for them as secondary proof;
but the court overruled his said objection, and permitted the
same to be read in evidence, and the same was read accordingly, and the defendant excepts thereto, and prays the court to
sign and seal this his bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly; and the same is ordered to be enrolled according to the
statute, this 10th day of April, 1848.
JAMES S. MORSELL

(Then followed Mr. Burke and M r. Rogers's statenents,
which are omitted.)
Plaintiff's First Bill of Exceptions.
Administrator of SAMUEL PARKS, V. JOHN
Ross.
"And the evidence stated in the foregoing bill of exceptions,
made part hereof, having been read to the jury, the plaintiff
rested; and thereupon the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that, upon the whole evidence aforesaid, if the
same shall be believed by the jury, the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover in this action.
" Which instruction the court granted; to the granting of
which the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepts, and prays the court
to sign and seal this his bill of exceptions, which is accordingly
done, this 11th day of April, 1848.
" W. CRANwcn,
"GEORGE

W-PARKS,

JAMES S. MORSELL,
JAMES DUNLOP.

Plaintiff's Second Bill of Exceptions.
" GEORGE W

Administrator of SAMUEL PARKS, V. JOHN
Ross.
"And thereupon, and upon the whole evidence in the said
first and second bill of exceptions of said defendant contained,
made part hereof, the defendant by his counsel prays the court
to instruct the jury, that, if the same is believed by the jury to
be true, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action ;
-which instruction the court granted; to the granting of which
the plaintiff by his counsel, excepts, and prays the court to
sign, seal, and enroll this his exception, which is accordingly
done, this 11th day of April, 1848.
PARKS,

W.

CRANcL,

JaiIS DUNL~OP."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

369

Parks v. Ross.

The counsel for the plaintiff sued out a ,rit of error, and
brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Tr. Green, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mllr. Bradlei, for the defendant in error.
Mr'. Green, for the plaintiff in error, contended that, apart
from the testimony of Richard Taylor, it is clear from the evidence that the defendant claimed and received from the United
States government the money "in trust" for those who were
entitled to it by having furnished transportation ; that the
plaintiff's intestate was one of those who furnished trdnsportation; and that defendant, having claimed and -received the
money, as trustee, is liable in this action. See 2 T. R. 370:
Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 247, 249; 1 Harris & Gill, 258.
But the Circuit Court'treated the defendant as the head or
executive of a foreign and independent nation, and held that,
having received the money as such, he was responsible only to
the nation, and could not, jure genhiun, be personally liable.
This he contended was clearly a mistake both of the facts
and of law, and referred to the Cherokee resolutions and to
5 Peters, 1.
If it be contended, on the strength of Taylor's evidence, that
the defendant has paid over to the nation, and thereby discharged his liability, it is answered, that defendant could not
discharge himself by hny settlement with or payment over to
the nation, after notice, and pending this suit. See 10 Peters,
158; Bend v. Hoyt 13 Peters, 263, 267.
But theie is no evidence that defendant has paid over to
the nation; the only evidence to that effect is found in Taylor's testimony, as follows: "Just before I left home to come
to the United States, Mr. Ross made a final settlement with
the nation of all the money received for the emigration."
This does not say that he paid over to the nation the amount
received on account of Parks's wagons, or that he showed any
voucher of payment to Parks. He might have paid to the
nation all except the amount due Parkcs, and said that he retained that on account of this 'very pending suit. Moreover,
Taylor's evidence shows that the settlement was in writing.
Then the written account or a duly certified copy should
have been produced (1 Greenleaf's Evidence, 82, 84, 88).
and the plaintiff had a right to rule out his evidence on this
point.
The statement made by the witness, Taylor, that "the committee or delegates of the emigration never delegated their'
whole power to John Ross," is contradicted by the Cherokee
resolution of the 11th of November, 1840; and by a com-

SUPREME COURT.
Parks v. Ross.

parison of his testimony with the other evidence in the case,
it will be seen that all the material statements therein con.
tained, affecting the plaintiff's right to recover, were in confliet with, and disproved by, the- other evidence in the cause.
Though called to the stand by the plaintiff, the latter was not
conclusively bound by his statements (11 Gill & Johns. 28-;
1 Gill, 84; Greenleaf, § 443); nor were the jury, whose province it was to decide between the conflicting evidence.
It will be contended for the plaintiff, that, the evidence being
contradictory, or conducing to different results, the effect of
the instructions given by the Circuit Court was to withdraw
from the jury their proper functions to determine the facts upon
the evidence, and to take from them the right of weighing the
effect and sufficiency of the evidence; and that, in so far as the
instructions given by the Circuit Court were founded on the
testimony of the witness Taylor, disregarding the conflict betweei that and the other evidence in the cause, said instructions were founded on part of the evidence only, and therefore
improper. Greenleaf v. Birth, 9 Peters, 298; United States
v. Tillottson, 12 Wheat. 181 ; Hurt v. Miller, 3 A. K. Marsh.
336; Browning v. Grady, 10 Ala. 999; 2 Gill & Johns. 403.
llrr. Bradley, for defendant in error.
The defendant will endeavor to show that the court did not
err in giving the instruction.
There was no evidence legally sufficient to authorize the
jury in finding any undertaking on the part of Ross to pay
plaintiff's intestate for return wagons.
There was no evidence from which the jury could infer that
Ross was personally liable therefor.
There was no evidence tending to prove the material fact of
any contract, expressed or implied, between Ross and the said
Parks, by which Ross became liable to pay for the return
wagons.
The testimony in the cause is so slight and inconclusive, that
no rational mind could draw the conclusion thbrefrom that
Ross had come under obligation to pay the plaintiff the return
wagon bill claimed by him. There was no evidence conducing
to prove the issue on behalf of the plaintiff.
. The rule in Maryland on this subject is well settled. The
Court of Appeals of that State has said It is the peculiar province of the court to determine all questions of law arising before them; and the undoubted right of
the jury to find all matters bf fact when evidence legally sufficient for that purpose is submitted for their consideration.
Tyson v. Richard, 3 Har. & Johns. 109; Dale v. Fassett, Lessee,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

371

Parks v. Ross.

lb. 119; Ford v. Gwinn, lb. 496; Saunders v. Webster, Tb.
432; Benson v. Hobbs, 4 Har. & Johns. 285; Schwartz v. Tyson, lb. 291; Benson v. Anderson, Ib.315; Mercer v. Walmsley,
5 Har. & Johns. 32; and see Davis v. Davis, 7 Har. & Johns. 39;
Coale v. Harrington, 7 Har. & Johns. 156; Gist v. Cockey, lb.
140, 141; Barger v. Collins, lb. 220; Riggin v. Patapsco Ins.
Co., lb. 295.
Where there is a failure of evidence in respect to any one
material fact involved in the issue, the evidence is not legally
sufficient to warrant the jury in finding the issue it is offered
to sustain; and it is the duty of the court to instruct them accordingly. Cole v. Hebb's Admr., 7 Gill & Johns. 20.
To have granted such an instruction would have been to have
authorized the jury to find a fact, of which no testimony legally
sufficient to warrant such a finding had been submitted to
their consideration. Chesapeake Ins. Co. v. Allegre's Admr.,
2 Gill & Johns. 172.
"Where there is no evidence applicable to the issue, or tending to prove any material fact, a total failure of evidence, the
court will direct the jury to find accordingly." Davis v. Barney,
2 Gill & Johns. 404.
"From the view which we have taken of the testimony in
this cause, we cannot approve the instruction given tb the jury.
They were instructed, that they might draw conclusions and
infer facts which the evidence before them was not legally
sufficient to warrant them in finding." McNulty v. Cooper, 3
Gill & Johns. 219.
" Conceding that the court were right in admitting the evidence, their instruction is clearly erroneous, as they submitted to
the jury the finding of a fact, of which no testimony legally sufficient for that purpose had been adduced before them. Thus
they authorized them to find that the profits of the real estate
had been applied to the maintenance of ElizalSeth, her brothers
and sisters, when not a scintilla of proof had been offered to
show such application. On the contrary, the accounts showed
that he had charged himself with them as part of the personal
estate, and had either paid them away in satisfaction of debts
and di.bursements, or held them in his hands as part of the
general balance of the intestate's personal estate." Burch v.
Mundell, 4 Gill & Johns. 452.
Here the proof is, he had applied the return wagon money
to incidental expenses in part, and had paid over the residue to
the nation.
Where a plaintiff offers no testimony, or such as is so slight
and inconclusive that a rational mind cannot draw the conclu-"
sions sought to be deduced from lt, it is the right of the coiutf

372

SUPREME COURT.
Parks v. Ross.

and their duty, when applied to for that purpose, to instruct
the jury that he is not entitled to recover. Morris v. Brickley,
1 Har. & Gill, 107.
This prerogative of the court is never exercised, but in cases
where the evidence is so indefinite and unsatisfactory, that
nothing but wild, irrational conjecture, or licentious speculation,
could induce the jury to pronounce the verdict which is sought
at their hands. Ferguson v. Tucker, 2 Har. & Gill, 189, 190.
See further cases in Maryland.
Sanderson v. Marks, 1 Har. & Gill, 252; Morris v. Brickley, Tb.
107; Caton v. Shaw, 2 Har. & Gill, 13; Smith v. Edwards, Ib.
411 ; Duvall v. Farmers' Bank, 7 Gill & Johns. 78; and Gray
v. Crook, 12 Gill & Johns. 236.
And in this court.
The error complained of is, that the Circuit Court did not
give an opinion on a point proposed; the court was certainly
bound to give an opinion, if required, upon any point relevant
to the issue. Douglass v. McAlister, 3 Cr. 297. But it is
equally clear, the court cannot be required to give to the jury
an opinion on the truth of the testimony in any case. Smith
v. Carrington, 4 Cr. 62. It is the province of the jury to -veigh
and decide upon the sufficiency of the evidence. Where there
is no evidence to prove a material fact' the court are so bound
to instruct the jury, when requested; but they cannot take from
the jury the right of weighing the evidence, and determining
-what effect it shall have. Greenleaf v. Birth, 9 Peters, 299;
S. P. Ches. & Ohio Canal Co. v. Knapp, Ib.567, 568; Scott
v. Lloyd, Ib.445, 446.
In trials at law, whilst it is invariably true that the decision of questions upon the weight of evidence belongs exclusively to the jury, it is equally true that, whenever instructions
upon evidence are asked from the court to the jury, it is the
right and duty of the former to judge of the relevancy, and by
necessary implication, to some extent, of the certainty and
definiteness of the evidence proposed. Irrelevant, impertinent,
and immaterial statements a court cannot be called upon to
admit as the groundwork of instructions; it is bound to take
care that the evidence on which it shall be called to act is legal,
and that it conduces to the issue on behalf of either the plaintiff or of the defendant. Roach v. Hulings, 16 Peters, 323.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the trial of this cause below, after the plaintiff had closed
his testimony, the defendant's counsel -requested the court to
instruct the jury, "that, if the evidence is believed by the jury
to be true, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover." This in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

373

Parks v. Rosi.

struction was given by the court, and excepted to by plaintiff.
Its correctness is the question for our decision.
It is undoubtedly the peculiar province of the jury to find all
matters of fact, and of the court to decide all questions of law
arising thereon. But a jury has no Tight to assume the truth
of any material fact, withdut some evidence legally sufficient
to establish it. Itis, therefore, error in the court to instruct the
-jury that they may find a material-fact, of which there is no
evidence from which it may be legally inferred.
Hence the practice of granting an instruction like the present, which makes it imperative upon the jury to find a verdict
for the defendant, and which has in many States superseded
the ancient practice of a demurrer to evidence. It answers the
same purpose, and should be tested by the same rules. A demurrer, to evidence admits not only the facts stated therein, but
also every conclusion which a jury might fairly or reasonably
infer therefrom. The question for our consideration is, therefore, whether the
evidence -ubmitted by the plaintiff in this case was sufficient
to authorize the jury in finding any contract or undertaking,
either express or implied, on the part of John Ross, the defendant, to pay the money demanded in the declaration.
A brief gummary of the admitted facts of the case will, we
think, sufficiently demonstrate the correctness of the instruction given by the court below, and that, if the defendant had
demurred to the evidence -inform, he would have been entitled
to the judgment of the court.
The plaintiff's intestate was a citizen of the Cherokee nation.
In 1838, a large portion of this nation, of which John Ross
was the principal chief, had consented to emigrate to the west
of the Mississippi River. The Cherokees were permitted to conduct their emigration by their own agents, the expense thereof
to be advanced by the United States out of certain moneys
or money due to the Cherokees by -a former treaty. They
accordingly appointed certain persons of their own nation as
delegates or special agents to act in behalf of the nation. Of
this agency John Ross was, the chief, and -acted as general
superintendent. As such, he received large sums of money
from the treasury df the United States for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the emigration, on estimates approved
by General Scott. Among these estimates was one for hire
of fifty-one wagons and teams, amounting in the whole to
$ 51,000. In this amount was included an item of $ 14,280,
as necessary to pay the hire and expenses of the wagons -on
their return, at the rate of seven dollars per day. The plaintiff's intestate was owner of four of the fifty-one wagons and,
VOL. xr.
32

374

SUPREME COURT.
Parks v. Ross.

teams employed. After the emigration was ended, the delegates or agents of the nation settled the accounts, and among
others that of plaintiff's intestate, who received the amount of
his account and gave a receipt in full. Nothing was allowed
him for return wagon hire in the account settled, and none
was claimed by him, as he was himself a Cherokee, and intended to reside in the nation. Since his death, this suit has
been instituted by his administrator, on the mistaken notion,
that, because in the money of the nation received by John
Ross there was included a sum of $ 14,280 estimated as necessary to pay return wagon hire, therefore the -plaintiff's
intestate was entitled to his proportional share of it,,without
any regard to the fact, .whether the Cherokees were willing
to allow it to him, or whether it was due to him on his own
contract with their agents. There was no evidence whatever
tending to show a special contract by John Ross personally to
pay for the teams and wagons, either for going or returning.
The contract of plaintiff's intestate was with the Cherokee nation, through their known public agents or officers. John Ross
was the sfiperintendent, treasurer, and disbursing officer. The
money in his possession was the money of the nation; the
plaintiff's intestate, and all who were employed in assisting the
nation to emigrate, were fully aware that John Ross was acting as a public officer, and dealt with him as such.
'Now, it is an established rule of law, that an agent who
contracts in the name of his principal is not liable to a suit on
such contract; much less a public officer, acting for his government. As regards him the rule is, that he is not responsible on any contract he may make in that capacity; and wherever his contract or engagement is connected with a subject
fairly within the scope of his authority, it shall be intended to
have been made officially, and in his public character, unless
the contrary appears by satisfactory evidence of an absolute
and unqualified engagement to be personally liable.
The Cherokees are in many 'respects a foreign and independent nation. They are governed by their own laws and
officers, chosen by themselves. And though in a state of
pupilage, and under the guardianship of the United States,
this government has delegated no power to the courts of this
District to arrest the public representatives or agents of Indian nations, who may be casually within their local jurisdiction, and compel them to pay the debts of their nation,
either to an individual of their own nation, or a citizen of the
United States.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

375

Fowler et al. v. Merrill.

Order.
This cause came on to be'heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of 'Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgmaent of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

AnSALO1I

FOWLER AND NOAH

H.

BADGETT, APPELLANTS, V. AYRES

P. MERRILL.
The act of Congress passed on the 24th of September, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 88,
89), provides that ex parte depositions may be taken before a judge of a County
Court.
Where a Probate Court is organized for each county in a State, is a court of record,
and has a seal, it is sufficient if a deposition under that act be taken before a judge
of the Probate Court.
Although the day when a mortgage was executed was not stated, yet where it bore a
date in its commencement, and its acknowledgment and date of record were both
given, and both of them preceded a sheriff's sale of the mortgaged property, it was
certain that the mortgage was executed before the sale under execution.
Although, when the mortgage was recorded, the laws of the State did not make the
mere recording cosvey the title when the personal property thus mortgaged remained in the possession of the mortgagor, yet they sanctioned the mortgage unless it was made without good consideration, and opposed by a bondfi*d subsequent
purchaser, who had no notice of its existence.
But the fact of recording the mortgage tended to give notice of its existence, and in
the present case the evidence shows that the purchasers at the sheriff's sale had
notice of the mortgage.
Such purchasers must allege that their want of notice continued up to the time of
making actual payment; a want of notice merely extending to the time of making
the purchase is not enough. Payment might have been refused, and then they
would not have been injured.
Moreover, between the time when the mortgage was in fact recorded and the time
of the sheriff's sale, the State passed a law making such recorded mortgages
valid.
The increase or offspring of slaves belong to the owner ofthe mother.
The decree of the Circuit Court being that the purchasers at the sheriff's sale
should either surrender the property to, the prior mortgagee, or pay the value
thereof, such value was properly computed as it was at the time of rendering the
decree.

,The hire of the slaves was properly charged as commencing when the prior mortC
gagee filed his bill for a foreclosure.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas, sitting as a court of
equity.
It was a: bill .filed by Merrill, the appellee, against Fowler

