552

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

court did not improperly overrule any such claim so set up,
and hence that the judgment in the State court ought to be
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on -to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals for the Western Shore of Maryland, and was argued by counsel, On consideration wvhereof,
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that this cause he, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the
want of jurisdiction;

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. DAVID M. HUGHES, ROBERT
SEWALL, AND FRANKLIN HUDSON, A MINOR, BY HIS TUTOR, HOLmES
HUTCHINSON.

Where a person entered land according to law, but omitted to obtain a patent for it,
and another person afterwards obtained a patent from the United States by proceeding as if it were vacant land, knowing at the same time that it was not vacant,
the patent thus obtained will be set aside.
Nor is it a sufficient objection to a decree, that the process was by an information in
the nature of a bill in chancery, filed by the attorney for the United States. A
simple bill in equity would have been better, but this process being so in substance, the case will not be dismissed for want of form.
'
An individual owner of land would, in such a case, be entitled to the relief of having
the patent set aside; and the United States, as a landholder, must be entitled to
the same.
The deeds of conveyance filed as exhibits show the property to have been sold for
two thousand dollars, and that it was afterwards converted into a sugar estatc.
This is sufficient to maintain the jurisdiction of this court.

Tis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana.
The attorney of the United States filed an information in
the nature of a bill in chancery against David M. Hughes, who
was the real defendant, and also against Sewall and Hudson,
nominal defendants.
On the 12th of April, 1814, Congress passed an act (3 Stat.
at Large, 122) for the final adjustment of land titles in the
State of Louisiana and Territory of Missouri.
The fifth section wag as follows :"Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That every person, and
the legal representatives -of every person, who has actually inhabited and cultivated a tract of land lying in that part of the
State of Louisian. which composed the late Territory of Orleans, or in the Territory of Missouri, which tract is not
rightfully claimed by any other person, and who shall not have

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

553

The United States v. Hughes et al

removed from said State or Territory, shall be entitled to the
right of preemption in the purchase thereof, under the same restrictions, conditions, provisions, and regulations, in every respect, as is directed by the act entitled 'An Act giving the right
of pre6nrption in the purchase of lands to certain settlers in
the Illinois Territory.' uassed February 5, 1813." (See 2 Stat.
at Large, 797.)
This act of 1813 prescribed the mode of proceeding; that
the party should make known his claim to the register, &..,
&o.
Prior to or on the 22d of February, 1822, one John Goodbee
presented the following application to the register and receiver
of the Eastern District of Louisiana.
" GENTL EMuN, - I apply to become the purchaser of a tract
of land by virtue of settlement under the act of Congress of the
12th of April, 1814, situatod as follows, in the parish of IberViUle, principally on the northi side of the Bayou Goula, designated as No. one b-y the surveyor, and is the same land
which wa6 inhabif J and cultivated by Daniel Beedle, or
Bidelle, in the year 1813, under whose settlement I claim by
pmcl~aie. This land belongs to the United States, and is not
righdi;lly claimed by any other person; neither has said Bidelle
removed from the State. The land claimed has not been surveyed according to law, but I apply for the right of pre6mption
to one hundred and sixty superficial acres, at the price provided
by law, and offer proofs of the facts set forth.
"JOHN GOODBEE."

Whereupon the register and receiver issued the following
certificate and receipt.
"No. 8.
"The applicant having proved, to the satisfaction of the register and receiver for the Eastern District of Louisiana, that he
has a.preemption right to the land claimed, I, in consequence,
certify that he is entitled to one hundred and sixty superficial
acres of land, as applied for; subject, however, to the sectional
or divisional lines to be hereafter run under the authority of
the United States.
F SAm,H. HARPER, Register.
" February22d, 1822."
"Receiver's Office, New Orleans,
February 261h, 1822.
"Received of John Goodbee two hundred dollars, being the
purchase-money for one hundred and sixty superficial acres of
land, in the parish of Iberville, designated as No. 1 by the surVOL. XI.

47

554

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

veyor, to which he has a pregmption right, accordilig to the
to (ne.
exhibited
certificate of the register, No. 8, SJ.
J.IMCLANAHAN,
Receiver.
"160 acres a 10,0 $200. Original filed 9th Oct., 1846.
" PAUL DEBLIEUX, Clerk."

Subsequently proper returns of survey were made, on which
the land was fully destribed and designated as lot No. 1, on
the north side of Bayou Goula, or section 54 in township 10
(west of the Mississippi) of range 12 east.
On the 14th of May, 1836, David .Michael Hughes ePtered
this land as if it were a tract of public land, containing 175Ma
acres; and on the 16th of April, 1841, obtained a patent from
the United States.
On the 3d of April, 1846, the receiver gave a certificate to
John Goodbee, that he had received from him the sum of
19.32, the price of 15-1 acres at $ 1.25 per acre, that being
the excess of the land beyond the original estimate and payment.
On the 20th of January, 1848, Thomas J. Durant, Attorney
of the United States for the District of Louisiana, filed in the,
Circuit Court an information and bill, commencing as follows

-

" To the Honorable the Judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Fifth Circuit and District of Louisiana,
in Chancery sitting': Informing, showeth unto your honors,
Thomas J. Durant," &c., &c.
The bill then went on to narrate the facts of the case as
above set forth.
It further states, that on or about the 14th of May, 1836,
Hughes, who resided near the town of Alexandria, Louisiana,
did make an application to the register of the land-office of
New Orleans, to enter and purchase the said lot of land at private sale, falsely representing to the register that the said land
was then subject to entry and sale, and that he was by the said
register permitted to eater the said land, as if the same was
liable to private entry; and that he, still falsely representing
the said land as subject to private entry and sale, did, on the
same day, pa.y ihe receiver the sum of $ 219.32, and that there
was issued to him by the register the usual certificate given in
such cases. That on the 16th of April, !841, Hughes presented the said certificate to the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office at Washington, still falsely representing the land
as subject to private entry and sale, and that he had legally
paid for the same, and did procure the commissioner to issue a
patent to him. That all the acts and doings of the register

DECFMBER TERM, 1850.

M5 1

The United States v. Hughes et al.

and receiver in permitting Hughes to -enter and pay for the
land were done in error, and were at the time, and now, null
and void; and that the acts and doings of the Commissioner
of the General Land-Office were also, then and now, null and
void, because the land had long before been sold by the United
States to John Goodbee, and that Hughes is bound, in equity
and good faith, to restore and give up the patent, and not to
pretenid or set up any title to the said land.
That Goodbee is dead, and that the land is in the joint occupation and settlement of Robert Sewall, who resides on it, and
of Franklin Hudson, a minor, who is represented by his tutor;
and that they pretend to possess said land as owners, under
title derived from Goodbee; and that the said parties in possession ought to be made parties to the proceedings in the case.
It is further stated, that, so soon as the error in issuing a
patent and the other acts preparatory thereto were discovered,
Hughes was requested to give up and restore the patent, and
receive back the money he h~d erroneously paid for the land,
but refused to do so; on the contrary, he had commenced suit
in one of the State courts against the possessors, who hold under Goodbee, to deprive them of the land by means of said
patent, to the damage and iInjury of the United States, who are
bound in equity and good faith to hold harmless all persons
who have derived title from Goodbee from the consequences of
errors and mibtakes of their own, and their officers, and particularly fiom those of the error in issuing a patent to Hughes.
The bill then charges combination and confederacy, and that
Hughes bad refused to comply with the requests made to him,
and sets forth his pretences for so doing; and the defendant
Hughes is required to answer the following interrogatories:
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 10; and the other defendants
Nos. 9 and 11.
1st. Whether the said land was not entered by David Michael Hughes at the land-office of the United States in New
Orleans, on the 14th day of May, 1836?
2d. Whether, in making said entry, he, the said David Michael
Hughes, did not represent said land to the register of the landoffice as land that was then subject to entry and private sale?
3d. *Whether, at the time of making said entry, he, the said
David Michael Hughes, did not know that the said land had
previously been sold by the United States to John Goodbee?
4th. Whether he, the said David Michael Hughes, did, on
the 16th day of April, in the year 1,941, obtain or procure a patent for said land from the General Land-Office in Washington ?
5th. Whether said David Michael Hughes has, since the
patent was procured by him, and before the institution of these

556

SUPREME COU'RT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

proceedings, been called upon to restore and give up said patent
to the proper officer of the United States, on the ground that
said patent was erroneously issued and delivered to him, and
to receive back the money which he paid into the treasury as
'the price of said land ?
6th. Whether the said David Michael Hughes has not refused to give up said patent when so called upon ?
7th. Whether the said David Michael Hughes has not commenced, and is not now carrying on, proceedings at law in one
of the State courts of Louisiana, to obtain possession of said
land by virtue of said patent; and, if yea, in what court, and
who are the parties defendant in said suit?
8th. Whether, at the time of his procuring said patent from
Washington, he, the said David Michael Hughes, did not have
-information, or did not have reason to believe, that the said
land had formerly been entered and paid for by John Goodbee ?
9th. Whether the said John Goodbee is now alive; and, if
not, when did he die?
10th. Whether the said David Michael Hughes did not know,,
or was not informed, when he entered said land, that the land
was in possession of Robert Sewall and of Franklin Hudson;
or did he not know or believe that it was in possession of some
parties claiming itas owners, and of whom ?
11th. In whose possession is said land now, and by what
title dio the present possessors hold it? Is said title derived
from John Goodbee,-and how?
The prayer of the bill was for an injunction to restrain
Hughes- from proceeding at law, upon the patent, to obtain
possession of the land; and to restrain him from selling, disposing of, or parting with the same, during the pendency of this
suit; and that he may be decreed to deliver up the patent to
the United States to be cancelled, as having been issued to him
in error, and without right, and for further and general relief.
Sewall and Hudson, the latter by his tutor, answered the
bill, setting forth their title derived from Goodbee, praying to
be dismissed from court and quieted in their title.
Hughes demurred, and for special causes of demurrer assigned: 1st. That by the showing in said bill this court has no jurisdiction of the matter presented, as the subject of controversy
between this defendant and Sewall and Hudson, being all citizens of Louisiana.'
2d. Because, by the showing in said bill, the United States,
as complainants, have no interest whatever in the matter in
controversy.
3d. That the case made by the bill shows that Robert Sewall

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

and Franklin Hudson, who are defendants in this bill, are in
point of inteiest the only proper parties to complain against
this defendant, and are not properly his co-defendants.
4th. Becailse, by the case made by the bill, the United States
appear to litigate the private rights, of one citizen against
another citizen, without cause or authority so to do.
5th. Because there is no law to authorize the United States
to invoke the c6urts of the United States to repeal, revoke, and
cancel a deed for land given by the United States to a citizen,
when the whole price is acknowledged to have been received
by the United States for the land sold.
6th. Because the complaint is in form an information by the
district attorney of the United States in behalf of the United
States, and in behalf of Sewall and Hudson, for matters only
cognizable by a court of equity, on a bill in chancery, att the
instance of the party aggrieved.
7th. Because the matter asserted as a preemption right to
land in John Goodbee is in law no right of preemption.
8th. Because, if the right asserted was originally good as a
right of pregmption in Goodbee, it is shown by the bill to have
been lost, and forfeited as such right, for want of timely payment; and for many other defects, &c., in said bill appearing.
On the 24th of January, 1849, the court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill. The United States appealed
to this court.
It was argued by tr. Crittenden (Attorney-General), for the
United States, and submitted on printed argument by Mr. Henderson for the appellees.
1lIr. Crittenden made the following points "
1. That the court has jurisdiction to vacate and cancel the
patent issued to Hughes.
Coke, 4 Inst. 88, says, that the Chancellor has jurisdiction to
hold plea of scirefacias to repeal letters patent, and enumerates
three cases in which the writ lies for that purpose. 1st. Where
the same thing has been granted to different persons, the first
patentee shall have the -Vrit to repeal the second patent.
2d. Where a grant has bedn made upon a false suggestion.
3d. Where a thing has been granted, which by law cannot be
granted.
Where any thing has been unadvisedly granted which
ought not to be granted, the remedy to repeal is by scirefacias
in chancery. This may be brought either on the part of the
king, or, if the grant is injurious to a subject, the king is bound
of right to permit him to use his name for repealing the patent
in a scirefacias. 3 BI. Com. 261; 2 lb. 346, 348 ; The Prince's
47.

558

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Hughes et al.

Case, 8 Co. Rep. 20; The King v. Butler, in the House of
Lords, 3 Levinz, 220; Cumming v. Forrester, 2 Jac. & Walk.
342; Gledstanes v. Earl of Sandwich, 4 Man. & Grang. 1029;
Brewster v. Weld, 6 Mod. 229.
In Attorney-General v. Vernon, 1 Vernon, 28!, 282, and
same case, Ibid. 387-392, it was held that a bill in chanillery
lies to set aside a grant of land. This was a case of purchase.
That a bill lies is also decided in Jackson v. Lawton, 10
Johns. 25; Jackson v. Hart, 12 Johns. 77; Seward's Lessee
v. Hicks, 1 Har. & McHen. 23, which moreover is a bill by
individuals. Lord Propietary v. Jenings, Ibid. 144; Norwood
v. Attorney-General ex rel. Bowen, 2 lar. & clcHen. 201, 213 ;
Smith and Purviances v. Maryland ex rel. Yates, Ibid. 244,252;
Miller v. Twitty, 3 Dev. & Bat. 14; 1 Story's Eq. 121, 155,157.
Mr. Wirt was of opinion, that patents for land issued by the
Unitcd States might be repealed either by scire facias or bill,
Opinions, 334. The 6ase of Jackson v. Lawton, above cited,
is to the same effect. But it may be a question whether a
scirefacias lies in such a case, there being no statute on the
subject, and the patent not being a matter of record. However that may be, it is very clear, by the authorities above referred to, that a-bill in chancery lies, which is the mode 'of proceeding adopted in this case. See also Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 99.
II. That the patent issued to Hughes ought to be vacated and
cancelled, the same having been issued in error, and without authority of law, and upon false representations and suggestions.
The purchase made by Hughes of lot No. 1 was by private
entry. This entry was void, the land not having been previously offered at public sale. The fourth section of the act
of 24th of April, 1820 (1 Land Laws, 224), is express on this
point. The patent upon this void entry was therefore issued
without authority of law, and void.
The evidence to sustain this point, that the land was not
offered under the President's proclamation of the 11th of August,
1823, is to be found in the letter of the register of the landoffice at New Orleans, of the 23d of February, 1846, exhibit C,
of the bill. It will be remembered that the certificate to Goodbee, allowing the preemption, is dated 22d February, 1822,
and is signed by Samuel H. Harper, the register, and that the
price was paid to the receiver on the 26th of the same month.
Now the evidence is, "that on the tract book, under the President's proclamation of 11th August, 1823, lot No. 1, north
side of Bayou Goula, is there registered in the order of sale,
but opposite is written, in the handwriting of Samuel H. Harper, the then register, "sold."
Mr. Harper had previously al-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

559

The United States v. Hughes et al.

lowed Goodbee's pre6mption, and he therefore marked the lot
as sold on the tract book, under the proclamation.
But even if the land had been offered at public sale, the
private entry of Hughes was void, because the register and
receiver had no authority to sell and receive the purchasemoney of lands which had been already sold. The lafds
authorized to be sold are the public lands of the United States.
Act of 24th April, 1820, 1 Land Laws, 323. The land in
question had become the property of Goodbee, under the act
of 1814, by the allowance of the preEmption claim by the
register and receiver, whose decision by the terms of the act
is conclusive: f' And in every case where it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the register and receiver, that any person who
has delivered his notice of claim is entitled, according to the
provisions of this act, to a preference in becoming the purchaser of a quarter-section of land, such person so entitled shall
have a right to enter the same," &c. See Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Peters, 499. The sale and patent to Hughes were, therefore, made and issued without authority of law, and void.
By the demurrer, Hughes admits the charge in the'bill, that
he represented the land to be liable to entry and sale.
III. That the land ws subject to pre6mption by Goodbee,
and his claim thereto properly allowed.
It does not appear at what date Goodbee made his application, it having no date; but it is certain his claim was allowed
on the 22d of February, 1822, nd that he paid the purchasemoney on the 26th, for "one hundred and sixty superficial
acres of land, in the parish of Iberville, designated as No. 1 by
the surveyor, to which he has a pregmption right, according to
the certificate of the register, No. 8, exhibited to me." At the
date of the payment, it is therefore clear that the lands had
been surveyed. In the following year all the lands in the township which had been surveyed were proclaimed for public sale
by the President.
In order that the court may understand why the land was
dpsignated lot No. 1, it is necessary to state that, by the second section of the act of 3d March, 1811, the surveyors were
"authorized, in arranging and dividing such of the public lands
in the said Territory (Orleans), which are or may be authorized to be surveyed and divided, as are adjacent to any river,
lake, creek, bayou, or watercourse, to vary the mode heretofore
prescribed by law, so far as relates to the contents of the tracts)
and to the angles and boundary lines, and to lay out the tracts,
as far as practicable, of fifty-eight poles in front and four hundred and sixty-five poles in depth, of such shape and bounded
by such lines as the nature of the country will render practii

560

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

cable and most convenient," &c. (1 Land Laws, 190.) In the
first surveys made in Louisiana, therefore, the public lands on
watercourses were always laid out according to the mode above
directed, which was the ancient French and Spanish mode,
-a
narrow front on a stream, and running back for quantity. The number of acres embraced within the area of the
measures given is one hundred and sixty acres, or thereabouts.
On the plats, these lots were numbered continuously, sometimes, where the watercourse was long, running through many
townships. In the township in which the land in question is
situated, they are numbered 1, 2, &c. on the north side of Bayou
Goula; and 1, 2, &c.on the south side. In the proclamation
of 1823, they are proclaimed as lots numbered in the same way,
lying on the north and south sides of the bayou.
, The General Land-Office has uniformly allowed pre~mptions
under the act of 1814, on the land thus surveyed; and in cases
where, by the subsequent surveys of the adjacent lands, these
lots have been found to contain more than one hundred and
sixty acres, they have allowed the preemptor to enter the additional number of acres. As having some bearing on this, see
the first section of the act of 29th April, 1816 (1 Land Laws,
281), which seems to have been made to correct a construction
of the land-office with respect to pregmptions under the acts
of 1813 or 1814, to be found in 2 Land Laws, no. 220, 221.
The other portions of the townships directed to be surveyed
on the watercourses were surveyed in the usual manner, into
sections of a mile square, and fractional sections, and these
were connected with the watercourse surveys, the whole forming one connected plat. When this was done, the whole sections, fractional sections, and lots were numbered anew as
sections, the lots, however, also retaining their original numbers.
For instance, in this particular case, the land stands on the
completed plat both as lot No. 1 and section 54. The survey of the township on which the land in question lies was
not completed until 1830. When the surveys were completed,
lot No. 1 -was found to contain one hundred and seventy-five
acres, and for the additional number of fifteen acres the parties
who now hold under Goodbee paid the receiver on the 8d of
April, 1846.
By the allowance of the pregmption, in 1822, Goodbee, as
the representative of Beedle, acquired the land in question,
and the United States parted with all their interest in it. In
Carrel v. Safford, 3 Howard, 461, in speaking of the liability of
lands, held by purchasers from the United States who had not
received their patents, to State taxes upon them, the courts
say, '1Lands which have been sold by the United' States can in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

561

The United States v. Hughes et al.

no sense be called the property of the United States. They are
no more the property of the United States than lands patented."
The land in question nD6w forms part of a valuable sugarplantation. It is respectfully submitted, that the decision of
the court below ought to be reversed.
rT.Henderson made the following points.
First Point. This case must be dismissed for want of jurigdiction, because the plaint is a libel or information by the District Attorney of. the United States, filed in behalf of the United States, but not in the name of the United States, and filed
in equity (not in admiralty). This in England, in behalf of
the crown, might be proper. The "crown officer " proceeds
officially and in his own name. Story, Eq. P1. § 49 and § 8.
But the United States have no such regal pretensions to be so
represented.
" The judicial power shall extend to all eases in law and
equity .....
.to
controversies, to which the United States
shall be a party." Const. U. S., art. 3, § 2. And by the Judiciary Act of 1789, § 11, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
the United States at common law, or in equity, shall only be
invoked by the United States when the value in dispute is
equal to $ 600 or more, and they are "plaintiffs or petitioners."
By the act for the better organization of the Treasury Department. 15th May, 1820, § 1, the agent of the treasury is to
"superintend all orders, suits, or proceedings in law or equity,
for the recovery of money, chattels, lands, tenements, orhereditaments, in the name and for the use of the United States."
See also § 7, same act.
By the act of 29th May, 1830, this agency is transferred to
the Solicitor of the Treasury, but the manner of bringing suits
remains unchanged. See §§ 3, 5,and 8.
Second Point. The case should be dismissed, because there
is no appreciable value in the matter sought to be decreed by
the prayer of the relator, as between the United States and the

defendants. The United States do not claim the land, but only the surrender of a patent, for which Hughes gave $ 219.32,
and which, as consequence, he would receive back if the patent
was cancelled. Act of 1789, § 11.
Third Point. The case should b-e dismissed, because there
is no authority, by any law of the United States, for the.courts
of the United States to repeal or cancel a patent for land sold
by the government, when the United States, as in this case,
show that they have neither land nor money to gain by such
decree. In other words, it is shown the United States have no
interest in this suit; but interpose only as an act of grace,

SUPREME COURT.
The Uuited States v. Hughes et aL

officiating only inthe office of prerogative. Had Hughes defrauded the government of its lands, the United States would
have the same right as a citizen to sue in equity to cancel our
title. But a land patent (so called) for lands sold by the United
States, is only a deed of bargain and sale. It has nothing of
the grace or generosity of royal favor. It is in no legal sense a
grant. But by acts of Congress of 2d March, 1833, § 1, and
4th July, 1831, § 6, the title issued is called a patent, Whether
for lands granted or sold; yet it is only in virtue of these qualities of grant that it is in England the prerogative of the crown
to repeal patents. 5 Com. Dig., tit. Patent (F), pp. 280, 281.
But even there, if the same thing be twice granted, the scire
facias to repeal shall be brought by the first patentee, and not
by the king. Ibid. p 2 81 (F. 4).
This prerogative is of the common law. But the United
States have no right to such prerogative. 6 Pet. 35. And have
no common law. 7 Cranch, 32; 8 Pet. 658; 3 How. 104.
The -United States in selling land, and in all matters of
contract, does not assert its sovereignty, but acts as a citizen.
9 Wheat. 907. Constitutional governments cannot pronounce
their own deeds void for any cause. 6 Cranch, 132. They are
estopped by their deed. 6 Cranch, 137. An innocent purchaser
of a government may plead purchase for valuable consideration.. 6 Cranch, 135.
It is against public policy, that the land-officers should elect
their favorite between two citizens claiming the same land by
purchase, and involve the United States as a partisan in the
strife. And it is against the practice, of the land-office. See
President Jackson's Instruction, 2 Pub. Land Laws, no. 60, p.
93; Instructions 4 and 5, Opin. Attorney-General, Vol. II. no.
67, pp. 86 and 87; Ibid., no. 88.
And the act of 12th January, 1825 (Land Laws, 402),
which directs that purchasers of land from the United States,
where the purchase is void by reason of a prior sale, shall be
entitled to repayment of the purchase-money, "on making
proof, to the satisfaction of the Secretary of,the Treasury, that
the same was erroneously sold," 31early contemplates, that the
purchaser shall establish the fact in some sufficient manner,
and not that the department, as its duty, shall decide the fact,
and force its judgment upon the purchaser.
And in this form of suit Hughes cannot litigate his rights
with his co-defendants, nor can have any decree in his favor,
but the dismission of this plaint; for which he,-by his demurrer, and his co-defendants by answer, both pray.
Fourth Point. The fact is so, and the court, on inspection
of the information filed, will not fail to perceive it, that the real

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

563

The United States v. Hughes et a].

contestant parties to the property or title in issue are the codefendants Sewall and Hudson on one side, and D. M. Hughes
on the other. All are shown on the face of the bill to be residents of the State of Louisiana, viz. Sewall a resident on the
land in controversy, Hudson an infant ward of the State, and
Hughes a citizen of Red River. For such a case as this, no
jurisdiction of parties in the Chreuit Court of the United States
obtains. And hence this case should be dismissed.
Fifth Point. If the United States, or their attorney, had a
right to institute this suit (which we deny), yet no law of Congress can be produced to authorize an appeal by the United
States in such a case; and, without direct legislation permits
the appeal, none is allowed. 6 Peters, 494-497; 11 Peters,
166; 1 Howard, 265; 3 Howard, 104 and 317; 8 Howard, 121.
Nor is it shown that the matter in issue between the United
States and defendants is of value 8 2,000. And hence the appeal shtnld be dismissed.
Sixth Point. But if this court asserts jurisdiction of the
cause, we nevertheless maintain the decree of dismission was
right, not only for the causes shown in the points 1, 2, 3, and 4
preceding (which are all involved in the demurrer), but also
that the merits of the case made in the bill are with the deinurrant, because no valid right of preemption is shown in
Goodbee to the land patented to Hughes.
We might admit, without prejudice to our case, that what
the land-officers have decided in favor of Goodbee's pre~mption is conclusive against us so far as within their jurisdiction.
But we maintain the allowance of this pregmption is most palpably without law, and against law. Omitting to note for the
present, the numerous blunders of varied descriptions and misdescriptions of the lands in controversy, it is shown by the
patent, Exhibit E, that the land sold to Hughes is See. 54, T.
10, R. 12, containing 175-4-OA6 acres. And this is the tract of
land said by the bill, and by Exhibit D, to have been originally
described as lot No. 1, but is subsequently correctly described
as See. 54. We note, then, first, that this is an irregular section, which could only bear the number 54 by being a private
claim, and from this cause having the accumulated number
over the thirty-six sections which compose a township of the
public surveys. Act of Congress, 18th May, 1796, § 2 (Land
Laws, 50, 51) ; Act of 6th March, 1820, § 6 (Land Lax~s, 322).
As an ihegnlar section, and an entire section, it is fractional,
including but 175 acres. The bill shows this premption was
claimed and accorded under the fifth section of the act of 12th
April, 1814 (Land Laws, 244), which extends the act of 5th
Februa'y, 1813 (Land Laws, 226), to Louisiana. The claim,

564

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

then, in Louisiana must be under "the same restrictions, con.
ditions, provisions, and regulations in every respect," as by act
of 1813 is provided. Act of 1813, § 1, provides, "that no more
than one quarter-section shall be'sold to any one individual, in
virtue of this act, and the same shall be bounded by the sectional and divisional lines," &c. See Secretary Crawford's
Opinion, 2 Land Laws, 539, ho. 478, that only a quartersection is allowable. And § 2 requires that the applicant, in
his notice of claim, "shall particularly designate the quartersection he claims."
On the law, then, it is clear beyond doubt that the landofficers had no power or jurisdiction to grant pregmptions to
entire sections, or fractional sections, or to any quantity ex.
eeeding a divisional quarter. And such was the jonstruction
of the Attorney-General, in 1814, of this act, on this point. 2
Land Laws, Op. no. 220 and no. 221. And the same construction of this act, when extended to Florida, by act of 22d April,
1826, is- adhered to by the Attorney-General in 1826. See Op.
no. 330. And the same principle ie decided in Opinion no. 7.
These authorities seem quite conclusive that the allowance
of this pre6mption was against the plainest provisions of the
law,.and the direct instructions of the superior department, and
therefore void. 3 How. 664, 665; 13 Pet. 519; 4 How. 502.
. Seventh Point. The pregmption was void in its allowance,
because before survey of the land, by which its number and
subdivision could be known, or its allowance validated. 2 Land
Laws, no. 399.
The bill affects to make it an equitable merit, that, when this
application was made and allowed, neither the applicant nor
the land-officers knew on which side the Bayou Goula this
pregmption lay; and therefore it was assumed to lay on both
sides, but1 principally on the north side." That they did not
know its number and sectional division, its contents and quantity, because it had not been surveyed: The argument in the
bill, that these deficiencies resulted and continued from a delay
to "connect the public surveys," is sheer nonsense. The connection of the surveys does not affect the actual surveys of the
separate parcels and divisions. This manifest disregard of the
law is seen in Exhibit B, which shows Goodbee's claim to be
in the county of lberville, on the Mississippi River, and for 160
acres exactly. There is no township, range, section, or quartersection, nor the Bayou Goula, mentioned in this registry of
predmption. And Exhibits Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, with Sewall and
Hudson's answer, show that no particular lot or division was
applied for or granted; but only "160 superficial acres," and
this proven to lie on "both sides of the Bayou Goula." And

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

565

The United States v. Hughes et al.

the application was expressly granted by the register, "subject
to the sectional and divisional lines to be hereafter run." Is it
wonderful, with such records of entry, that the land should apparently remain unsold ?
But all this was palpably and expressly against the law of
1813, §§ 1 and 2, which distindtly requires that the land shall
only be claimed or allowed after survey, and must be sought
for and granted by its specific subdivisions. And see Instructions, 2 Land Laws, p. 384, no. 309.
Eighth Point. The alleged preemption was clearly void,
because not paid for by entry, &c. two weeks before the period
assigned for the public sales, and therefore forfeited. Act of
1813, § 2.
It is unnecessary to inquire with what indulgence the landoffice might have regarded the numerous and palpable violations of law which this preemption encounters. It now rests
on law, in contest with a purchaser who has paid his money
and got a legal title, and who has a right to combat this alleged superior equity by any circumstance which may impair
it. 7 Wheat. 6. We know not, on this demurrer, at what
precise time this land was exposed to public sale; but, on the
presumptions of law, Hughes could not have entered it as public
land9, till after it was offered for sale at public outcry. Exhibit
C shows us it was offered at public sale under the President's
proclamation of 11th August, 1823. And these instructions
or regulations were of like import -ith those of 1st January,
1836 (2 Land Laws, p. 125, no. 81), and which las- was in
force when Hughes purchased. And this court will presume
what Was required by the regulations to be done was in fat
done. Therefore, this land was offered for sale on public notice, before Hughes bought it. And the bill shows; and Exhibit
D shows, that this preemption was not paid for till 3d April,
1846, being ten years after Hughes had entered and paid for it.
Now, if Goodbee had a pregmption right hi 1822 to this tract
of land, the act of 1813, § 2, expressly forfeits it, if not entered
before offered for sale (2 Land Laws, p. 112, no. 72; Ibid., p:
118, no. 77). And the price must all have been paid at the
time of entry, by act of 24th April. 1820 (2 Land Laws, p.
384, no. 309).- Aid if the land-officers had any, poWer to, indulge Goodbee for part payment of this land, it certainly could
not lawfully extend to ten years after they had sold it to another, and for which delay no excuse is given; and it is not
pretended the public surveys were not connected when Hughes'
purchased the land in 1836.
Ninth Point. This preemption, as against Hughes, a purchaser with legal title, is void, also, for vagueness, misdescrip.
VOL. X1.
48

566

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Hughes et al.

tion and uncertainty, and to which the acts of the claimant,
more than those of the land-officers, contributed.
He had applied and paid for 160 superficial acres, lying on
both sides of the Bayou Goula, which had ho survey, boundary,
sectional subdivision, quantity, township, or range, which
could identify it, or give it specific location. Claimed as lying
on both sides of Bayou Goula, and registered (see Exhibit B
as lying on the Mississippi River, could Hughes, or any one, be
admonished it lay on the north side of Bayou Goula? Claiming 160 acres and no odd hundredths or other excess, who was
bound to know it was a tract of 175-. acres? Claimed and
registered by some careless, unmeaning, and unauthorized
designation of lot No. 1, who would suspect Sec. 54, T. 10, R.
12, was meant and intended by such description?
Now, on this demurrer, we claim to discriminate as to what
the record was when Hughes purchased on the 14th of May,
1836, md what subsequent conjectures, annotations, and interlineations have made it.
There was, then, when Hughes purchased, no Sec. 54, T. 10,
R. 12, assigned as Goodbee's preemption, nor the SurveyorGeneral's commentary, of date 27th May, 1844, that Goodbee's
160 superficial acres had increased to 175c, as per Exhibit A.
And Register Laidlaw had not then discovered, as he did in
1846, that the word" sold," written in the tract book, opposite
to this designated lot, meant sold to Goodbee, rather than
Hughes, who had purchased it ten years before this discovery.
And the pencilled name of " Hudson," in 1836, in same book,
but fairly implies that it was put there after Hughes bought
the land the same year. But neither of these is so remarkable
as that, Goodbee not having paid for the land up to date
(1846), and with the averment in the bill that the "assigns" of
Goodbee, on the 3d of April, 1846, paid up the arrearage due
on this preemption, yet the register gives his certificate of the
same date, that Goodbee, on the 26th of February, 1822, purchas'ed lot No. 1, or ec. 54, T. 10, R. 127eontaining 175je
acres, for which he made, payment in full, as required by law."
While on the same date, as shown by the same Exhibit D,
the receiver certifies that Goodbee, on the 3d of April, 1846, paid
him $ 19.32, being residue in full for this same land. How
much these post-dated certificates, contradictions, and transmufations of the records shall receive the sanction of the court,
and, by their retrospective operation, conduce to deprive Hughes
of his title, is submitted with but little apprehension as to the
conclusions which must be arrived at.
The charges in -the plaint, that Hughes falsely represented
to the land-officers that this section was subject to entry, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

567

The United States v. Hughes et al.

that he falsely represented he was entitled to have the patent,
and thus obtained his title, we regard as meaning nothing
available to the case, though met on demurrer. No presiimption of law can be entertained that the land-officers acted on
the verbal representations of Hughes, and were so childishly
cajoled, instead of the evidences of their records, and the laws
and instructions which guide them in like cases. Besides, Exhibit C expressly reports this land to have been offered at
public sale, by the proclamation of the President, before Hughes
purchased it. And to these acts, which were the prerequisites
in law that put the land in market, Hughes is not charged
with being accessory.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The attorney of the United States for the District of Louisiana on behalf of the United States filed an information in the
nature of a bill in chancery, against David M. Hughes, having
for its object the repeal and surrender of a patent for 175 40
acres of land, made to Hughes by the President of the United
States, April 16, 1841. The bill proceeds on the ground that
said patent was fraudulently obtained, being in violation of the
rights of Sewall and Hudson, deriving title from John Goodbee, who entered the land as his preemption claim under the
act of April 12, 1814, paid the purchase-money, and got a certificate of purchase, in 1822, for 160 acres; but when the public
surveys were executed, the legal subdivision was found to contain 15yj acres more, to which Goodbee's right 'of preemption also extended.
The validity of Goodbee's entries depends on the regulations
of the land-office, made in pursuance of statutes enacted by
Congress; and which statutes and regulations are accurately
set forth by the Attorney-General in his argument in this cause,
and need not be further stated here.
It appears that in 1836 Hughes entered the same land, with
full knowledge that those holding possession under Goodbee's
title were owners and cultivating a sugar-plantation on it.
The existence of Goodbee's preemption right and better title
was overlooked at the land-office in Louisiana, where the entry
of Hughes was made; and again at the General Land-Office
until after his-pateift had issued.
As the bill was demurred to, no dispute can be raised on the
question of fraud, nor can any doubt exist that this second
purchase was fraudulently obtained, Sewall and Hudson being
notoriously in possession of the land as owners wheii Hughes
made his entry at the land-office.
1st. The first and main objection made for defendant Hughes
is, that this proceeding is improper, and will not lie.

568

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hughes et al.

It is to be regretted that this was not a simple bill in equity
brought by the United States against the defendant Hughes,
praying that the patent might be annulled and surrendered by
a decree in chancery, without any attempt of assimilating the
proceeding to an information brought by the -Attorney-General
on behalf of the crown, in England, to repeal a patent. In this
country, the lands of the United States, lying within the States,
are held and subject to be sold (under the authority of Congress), as lands may be held and sold by individual. owners, or
by ordinary corporations; and similar remedies may be employed by the United States as owners, that are applicable in
cases of others. This, we think, is manifest. It was so held
in the case of King et al. v. The United States, 3 How. 773.
In substance, this is a bill in equity for and on behalf of the
United States, because of an injury done to the .United States
by Hughes, the defendant, and we will not dismiss it for want
of form.
By the Constitution. Congress is vested with power to dispose of the public lands, and to make all needful rules and
regulations respecting them.. Under existing regulations, Goodbee had a right to enter the land in dispute in exclusion of
others, and did so; and the United States, as owner, having
been paid for the land, was bound to make the purchaser a
title, in the same manner that an individual would have been
bound under similar circumstances.
Ai the patent to Hughes is a conveyance of the fee, the
United States stand divested of the legal title, and therefore
cannot fulfil their engagement with Goodbee and his alienees,
to whom they stand bound for a legal title, until the grant to
Hughes is annulled.
It is manifest that, if the agents of an individual had been
thus imposed on, the conveyance could be set aside because of
mistake on part of such agents, and fraud on part of the second
purchaser, in order that the first contract could be complied
with. Nor can it be conceived why the government should
stand on a different footing from any other proprietor.
Hughes has no right to complain, for so soon as it was discovered that he had defrauded the government, and those
claiming under it, his purchase-money was tendered, and a
surrender of the patent demanded; but he refused to receive
the money, or surrender his legal advantage.
2d. The demurrer having been sustained, and the bill dismissed by the Circuit Court, it is insisted here that no appeal
would lie, because the matter in dispute does not appear to
have amounted to $ 2,000. All the assignments from Goodbee down to the present owners (Sewall and Hudson) are ex-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

569

The United States v. Hughes et aL

hibited with the bill, as a par± thereof; the first of which is a
notarial conveyance from Goodbee to Bush, dated in 1822. It
states that the consideration of $ 2,000 had been paid for the
land; and, there being a sugar-plantation on it, we assume its
value to he quite equal now. As we are bound by complainant's allegation of value, no controversy can be raised on
the fact. If, however, any objection existed, value could be
proved herd in like manner as is usually done in cases of ejectment, where there is no allegation what the property in dispute
is worth.
We are of opinion that the patent to Hughes should be vacated and annulled; and accordingly order that the decree of
the Circuit Court of the District of Louisiana be. reversed; and
it is adjudged and decreed, that the patent made to David
Michael Hughes by the President of the United States, on the
16th day of April, A. D. 1841, for 175,
acres of land, being for
section 54 in township 10 of range 12 east, in the district of
lands subject to sale at New Orleans, Louisiana, be, and. the
same is hereby, vacated, and declared null and void. And it is
also ordered and decreed, that said 'David 1MVhael Hughes do,
within one calendar month from the time of filing and entering
the mandate of this court in the Circuit Court for the District
of Louisiana, surrender said patent to the clerk of the aforesaid
Circuit Court, who will certify on its face that said patent is
annulled by this decree; which certificate he Will sign and further authenticate under the seal of his court and then forward
said patent to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office at

Washington city.
And i is further adjudged and decreed, that said David
Michael Hughes be, and he is hereby, for ever enjoined from
prosecuting any suit in law or equity on said patent, as evidence of title.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed; and this court, proceeding
to render such decree as the said Circuit Court ought to have
rendered, doth order, adjudge, and decree, that the patent made
to David Michael Hughes. by the President of the United
States, on the 16th day of April, A. D1 1841, for section 54 in
township 10 of range 12 east, in the district of l6nids subject
to sale at New Ofleans, Louisiana, containing 175&%k acres of
48

570

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Power's Heirs.

land, be, and the same is hereby, vacated and annulled; that
the said David M. Hughes do, within one calendar month from
the time of filing the mandate of this court in the said Circuit
Court, surrender said patent to the clerk of said court; that the
said clerk shall certify under the seal of the said court, on the
face of the said patent, that it is annulled by this' decree, and
then transmit the same to the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office at Washington city; that the said David M.
Hughes be, and he is hereby, for ever enjoined from prosecuting any suit in law or equity on said patent as evidence of
title. And it is further adjudged and decreed, that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to carry this decre@ into effect, and for such
further proceedings to be.had herein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, as to law and justice may appertain.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. THoriAs P6WER'S HEIRs.
The twelfth section of the regulations of O'Reilly in 1770 required, that there should
be an order of survey, a proces verbal by the surveyor of the province, three
copies of the plat made out by him, one of which should be deposited in the office
of the scrivener of the government, and Cabildo, a second delivered to the governor, and the third to the-proprietor, to be annexed to the titles of the grant.
Where a grant was alleged to have been issued by the Spanish governor of Louisiana in 1781, and the only evidence of it was a copy taken from a notary's book,
the title was invalid.
At the date of the grant, viz. f st Angust%1781, the Spanish governor of Louisiana
was only the military commandant of that part of West Florida in which the lands
granted were situated. He held the country by right of conquest. The Spanish
laws had not been introduced into the country, and it was not ceded to Spain by
Great Britain until 1783. The governor had therefore no authority to grant land
in 1781.
Under the acts of Congress of 1824 and 1844, the District Court had no power to
act upon evidence of mere naked possession, unaccompanied by written evidence,
to confer,relating
a title of some decription.
conferring,
or professing
Under
the various
acts of Congress
to laud titles in that tract of country beof north latitude, isa
the thirty.first degree States,
and
Perdido,
tween the Iberville, the
although it
against the United
barred
not
is
unrecorded,
title,
complete
States.
private
claim
derived
from
the
United
barred against any

THis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
. It was the case of a petition, and amendeO petition, presented by the heirs of Thomas Power to the District Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi, the first on the 15th of June,
1846, and the latter on the 11th of November, 1846, under the
act of 1824, as revived and reenacted by that of 1844, claiming
two very valuable islands, lying off the coast of the State of
Mississippi, opposite the Bay of Biloxi.

