THE DECISIONS
O1F THU

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

SIMON GRATZ'S EXECUTORS AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, V.: SAMtUEL M.

COHEN AND ELEAZER L. COHEN.
Where a deed was executed by an aged woman, the sole surviving executrix of her

father, with power under the will to sell, with a view to put an end to a long family

litigation in which some judgments had been obtained, and other suits were then

existing, and who owned the whole or nearly the whole of the residuary interest
of the estate; and the settlement was made with deliberation, and under advice

of business friends, and the consideration of the deed was a sum of money in hand,

with a stipulation on the part of the grantee, that he would pay over any surplus
which the lands might yield after paying all reasonable expenses and legal claims,

this deed cannot be set aside on the ground of fraud.
The bill below must be dismissed, unless it be so amended as to include all the par.
ties interested, and be confined to a claim for the surplus of the proceeds of the

lands, after paying reasonable expenses and legal claims.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a
court of equity.
It was a bill filed in 1839, by Samuel and Eleazer L. Cohen,
citizens of the State of New Jersey, against Simon Gratz,
Leah Phillips, and twelve other persons. It was a bill for a discovery against Leah Phillips, surviving executrix of Joseph Simon deceased, and Simon Gratz, and praying also that a
certain agreement and deeds executed by and between said
Leah and Simon might be annulled, and declared fraudulent
and void, and that Simon Gratz be decreed to account, &c.
The bill involved the consideration -f matters and accounts,
commencing in 1769, and continuing down to the time when
it was filed. It was a family dispute which had been carried
on in the courts of Pennsylvania for a number of years, and
reported as follows - Gratz v. Phillips, 1 Binney, 588 (1809);
Gratz v. Simon, 3 Binney, 474 (1811); Gratz v. Simon, 5
VOL. XI.

I

2

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

Binney, 564 (1813); Gratz v. Phillips, 14 Serg. & Rawle, 144
(1827);
Phillips
etal, 1 Pa. Rep. 333 (1831); Gratz v.
Phillips, Gratz
2 Pa. v.
Rep.
410 (1831);
2 Pa. Rep. 412 (1831); Cohen's Simon's Executors v. Gratz,
Appeal, 2 Watts, 17, (1834).
This narrative need not go further back than 1804, hen
Joseph Simon, a merchant or trader, and resident of Lancaster,
died. Besides other children, whose interests were not involved in this controversy, he had three daughters, Miriam,
Beliah, and Leah. They were all married. Miriam was married to Michael Gratz, Bellah to Solomon AL Cohen, and Leah
to Levi Phillips. Shlion Gratz, whose executors were the appellants, was one of the -hildren of Miriam and Michael Gratz.
,The complainants below -'and appellees here, were the children
of Beliah Cohen. At the time of Mr. Simon's death, there
were unsettled partnershiI transactions between him and his
son-in-law Michael Gratz, and a large body of lands was held
by them in common. Suits were then pending between them
relative to these transactions.
By the will of Joseph Simon, 26th October, 1799, he disposed of the bulk of his estate as follows.
Art. 14. He ordered and directed that the whole residue of
his estate (to be invested in certain stocks) should be divided
into three equal shares, and one part of the proceeds thereof,
that is the interest should be paid to his daughter Miriam during her life;. one third part of the proceeds or interest thereof
to his son-in-law Levi Phillips and Leah his wife, during their
joint lives and the life of the survivor of them; and the remaining third part to his daughter Bellah during her life.
On the death of either daughter, her share of the principal to
vest in her issue, to take as purchasers and tenants in common.
On the death of either Miriam or Leah without- issue, the
share to be divided among the children of Beliah Cohen.
. By Art. 16, Mr. Simon made the devise to Mrs. Gratz (Miriam) dependent on a release of certain lawsuits then pending,
and in the event of no such release he gave her share to Mrs.
Cohen and Mrs. Phillips.
. Of this will, be made his son-in-law Levi Phillips, and his
daughters Mrs. Phillips and Mrs. Cohenexecutors, with full
power to sell real as well as personal estate.
By a codicil in December, 1802, he exprestly revoked the
devi§e to Mrs. Gratz, and directed the devise to Mrs. Phillips to
be absolutely one half of the principal of the residue; the legacy
to Mrs. Cohen to be as before, -the interest on her share.
By a second codicil, 9th February, -803, he provided as
follows: "Whereas, my son-in-law Levi Phillips has continually in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

3

Gratz's Exeeutors et al. v. Cohen et al.

formed me that, when I had made the last codicil in my last
will and testament,- I ought also at the sarm. time to have
made the .lteration by giving my daughter Beliah her share
in the principal, instead of the interest of the principal of my
residue, which would make her- more comfortable; therefore
I do, by this instrument of writing, authorize and give full
power to my son-Uir-law, Levi Phillips, as being one of my.exewtors and guardians of my last will and testament, to do as
he thinks requisite, - that is to say, by giving my said daughter
Beliah her share of my residue in the principal as the money
comes to hand.
"In witness whereof, I, Joseph Simon, have this day set
my hand and seal.
"J OsEPH

SION.

" Lancaster, February 9, 1803."
Levi Phillips, Leah Phillips, and Beliah Cohen all acted as
executors.
In 1807, Michael Gratz brought a suit against the executors,
and from that time the parties were continually in some court.
After the death of Simon, his executors proceeded, to sell and
dispose of his lands, from time to time,' under the powers vested in them. In a large number of these tracts of land, Michael Gratz was interested, by virtue of a declaration of trust
given by Simon in his lifetime, and of claims of David Franks
(a former partner of Simon), which had been transferred to
Michael Gratz; Simon Gratz was' the agent of Michael Gratz
in his lifetime, and his chief acting administrator after his
death.
In September, 1811, Iichael Gratz died, and although letters of administration were granted to Simon in conjunction
with othei persons, yet he was the chief acting administrator,
and appeared to transact all the business.
It is not necessary t6 trace the progress of the various suits
mentioned in the commencement of this narrative. In 1832,
Levi Phillips died, and on the 29th of January, 1833, Beliah
Cohen died, leaving Leah Phillips the sole surviving executrix of her father, Joseph Simon.
On the 15th of February, 1833, the agreement was entered
into between Leah Phillips and Simon Gratz, which it was
the object of this bill to set aside as fraudulent.
The 'circumstances attending the making of this agreement
are thus stated in the bill: "4Your orators further show unto your honors, that Solomon
AL Cohen, their father, died in the month of February, 1796,
and that Beliah Cohen, their mother, died on the 29th day of

4

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al

January, 1833, and that they, and their brothers and sisters
heretofore named, are the persons mentioned as the children
of his daughter Beliah in the last will and testament of Joseph
Simon; that the papers of the estate of the said Joseph Simon
were in the possession of Levi Phillips at the time of his
death; that the said Levi Phillips died on the 15th day of
January, 1832, and that after his death the papers of the said
estate were in the possession of the said Leah Phillips, oxle of
the executors of the said Joseph Simon; that during the year
1832, secret interviews took place between Simon Gratz and
Leah Phillips, executrix, citizens of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, with the view of depriving your orators, and the
other children of the said Beliah Cohen, of their just rights under the will of the said Joseph Simon, which said interviews
were concealed from the said Beliah Cohen and her family;
and your orators believe, and expressly charge, that John Mloss,
Isaac Phillips, Lyon J. Levy, and Isaac B. Phillips, citizens of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania) were, during that year
and afterwards, aiding and assisting the said Simon Gratz
and Leah Phillips in their design to appropriate the estate
of the said Joseph Simon to the said Simon Gratz and Leah
Phillips, and deprive your orators, and their brothers and sisters, of the said estate and of their just rights. That shortly
after the decease of their mother a fraudulent agreement was
made and entered into between Simon Gratz and Leah Phillips, dated February 15th, 1833, a copy whereof, marked H,
is hereto annexed, and which your orators pray may be taken
as part of their bill; the object of which said agreement
was fraudulently to terminate the suits then pending between
the surviving executrix of the said Joseph Simon and the administrators of Michael Gratz, by agreeing, consenting to, and
causing judgments to be taken against the estate of the
said Joseph Simon, to the manifest injury of your orators,
and their brothers and sisters hereinbefore named, interested
as aforesaid in the said estate; and the further object, purpose, and intention of the said agreement was fraudulently to
convey, or cause to be conveyed, to the said Simon Gratz all
the real estate of the said Joseph Simon, which said real estate
is more particularly set forth in a schedule hereto annexed,
marked L, for a consideration entirely inadequate, and known
so to be by the said Simon Gratz and Leah Phillips, and to
transfer, without an adequate consideration, to the said Simon
Gratz the debts due to the estate of the'said Joseph Simon;
and that the said Leah Phillips and Simon Gratz, then well
knowing the unjust and fraudulent character of said agreement
and the inadequacy of the consideration, did combine and con-

DE'CEMBER TERM, 1850.

5

Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et aL

federate with others, their confederates, to defraud your orators,
and their brothers and sisters, of their just interest in the estate
of the said Joseph Simon. And your orators further show to
your honors, that the said agreement was concealed from your
orators and the other children of the said Beliah Cohen, and
was first discovered by them on the 13th day of June, 1833, it
having been produced on that day by Lyon J. Levy, one of
the confederates, in an examination of the said Lyon J. Levy,
-as a witness before Michael W. Ash, Esquire, an alderman of
the city of Philadelphia, the said Lyon J. Levy having been
subpcenaed for the purpose of having his deposition taken in a
case then pending in the Orphan's Court of Lancaster County; that the first knowledge your orators, and, as they verily
believe, any of the children of the said Beliah Cohen, had of an
arrangement having been made between Simon Gratz and
Leah Phillips, was obtained by one of their brothers, Joseph
S. Cohen, who, on the 23d day of March, 1833, was informed
by Benjamin Champneys, Esquire, who had been and was
counsel for the estate of Joseph Simon, that he, the said Benjamin Champneys, had received from Leah Phillips a power
or warrant of attorney to enter judgment for the plaintiffs in a
suit then pending, and on the argument list of the Court of
Common Pleas of Lancaster County, between Gratz's Administrators, plaintiffs, and Simon's Executors, defendants, the
copy of the record whereof is hereunto annexed. That the
said Benjamin Champneys refused to show the said power or
warrant to the said Joseph S. Cohen; that on the- morning of
the 25th of March, 1833, the day fixed for hearing arguments
in the said Court of Common Pleas of Lancaster County,
the said Joseph S. Cohen attended with his counsel, James
Hopkins, Esquire, and Reah Frazer, Esquire, at the opening
of the court, and filed the affidavit, a copy whereof, marked
I, is hereto annexed; and on motion of Mr. Hopkins, the said
court, after considerable resistance on the part of John R.
Montgomery and William Morris, Esquires, counsel of Simon
Gratz, granted a rule to show cause why Sarah A. Cohen
and others, children of the said Beliah Cohen, and interested in
the estate of the said Joseph Simon, should not be permitted
to come in and take defence in the said action, as appears by
the said rule, a copy whereof is hereto annexed, marked J,
which raid rule was duly served on the said Leah Phillips,
surviving executrix.
"Your orators further show to your honors, that in pursuance
of the said fraudulent and secret agreement, dated the 15th day
of February, 1833, entered into between the said Leah Phillips
and Simon Gratz at the instance of the said John Moss, Lyon

1*

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

J. Levy, and others, their confederates, who, when discovered, your orators pray may be made parties to this their bill,
with apt and sufficient words to charge them; the said Leah
Phillips, surviving executrix as aforesaid, afterwards delivered
tb the said Lyon J. Levy the books and papers belonging to
the estate of the said Joseph Simon," &c.
The -answer of Leah Phillips to this part of the bill was as
follows:"And this defendant further answering saith, that in the year
1832, she being of a very advanced age, being then in her sixty-ninth yearu, of infirm health, almost totally blind, and in very
necessitous circumstances, was determined by the advice of
her friends, Isaac B. Phillips, John Moss, and Lyon J. Levy,
to make a settlement of long pending controversies between
the estate of Joseph Simon, of which she was the surviving
representative, and of Michael Gratz, which she believed to
be represented by the said Simon Gratz, and also to make sale
of such lands vested in her under the will of said Joseph Simon as the said Simon Gratz might be willing to purchase.
The defendant says, that her object in proposing the arrangement was to terminate controversies which she was unwilling
and unable to carry on, and to obtain such a sum of money as
would relieve her from embarrassment, which gave her great
uneasiness; the said defendant then and still believes, that in
making this arrangement she prejudiced the rights of no one,
but did what the law gave her perfect authority to do; and this
defendant answering says, that in the month of October, 1832,
she addressed several notes to said Simon Gratz, desiring to
confer with him on the proposed arrangement and purchase,
and that she had several interviews with him at her own
house, and at his counting-house, and that she entered into an
agreement with him, the said Simon Gratz, in order to terminate the pending suits above referred to, and made a conveyance of certain lands to the said Simon Gratz, receiving therefor the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, which was duly paid
on and after the execution of the said conveyance and agreement.
"And this defendant further answering saith, that, with a
view to carry such conveyance into full effect, she deposited
with Lyon J. Levy a trunk of papers, being the same which
Joseph S. Cohen had as aforesaid fully examined, and from
which he had selected certain papers in order that the said
Simon Gratz should examine the same, and take therefrom
such papers as muiments of title as might be necessary to
carry into full effect the said -conveyance; that after the said

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Gratz's Bxecutors et al. v. Cohen et al.

trunk had remained some time in the said Levy's possession,
it was returned, and is now in the defendant's possession.
"And this defendant further answering saith, that she admits
it to be true that Levi Phillips, one of the executors of Joseph
Simon, did die on or about the 15th of January, 1832, and that
Beliah Cohen, an executrix of Joseph Simon, did depart this
life on or about the 29th day of January, 1833.
"And the defendant further answering saith, that there were
no' other negotiations between this defendant and Simon
Gratz, during the life of Beliah Cohen or afterwards, than
those already stated; that they had for their object the final
termination of controversies between the'estate of Michael
Gratz and that of Joseph Simon, which this defendant was
neither able not willing to continue, and the conveyance of
certain lands for an adequate consideration to be paid by the
said Simon Gratz to this defendant as above- stated.
"That the negotiations between this defendant and the said
Simon Gratz were verbal, and took place partially at his counting-house and partially at her house; that this defendant is
inable, at this time, more precisely to state what conversation
passed between her and the said Simon Gratz, nor has she
copies of any papers which were executed; that there were
executed an agreement for the termination of certain pending
suits, and two deeds of certain lands in Columbia and Lancaster Counties- that no persons took-part iii such negotiations
but herself and Simon Gratz, and that these negotiations were
not concealed from Beliah Cohen or her children.
"And the defendant further. answering saith, that Simon
Gratz did call on this defendant at her house, in Arch Street,
on two occasions, once at the time of the execution of the deeds,'
and once previously, though th&precise period of the first call
this defendant is unable to state; that this first call was not
made in consequence of any previous notice; that Elkalah M.
Cohen was at this defendant's housp when Simon Gratz called;
that Simon Gratz did not then disclose the object of his call;
that he did not state he was not aware that this defendant resided there; ihathe had not before called there, and this defend.
ant is not aware from whon he received information where she
resided.
"And this defendant further answering saith, that there were
other interviews between the defendant and Simon Gratz, but
whether there were more than two, and whether they occurred
before or after the death of Mrs. Beliah Cohen, this defendant
is unable to state; this defendant had several interviews with
Simon Gratz at his counting-house, and the object of this
defendant in going to Mr. Gratz's.counting-house was to relieve

8

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohon et a.

him of as much trouble as possible, in a mattei in which this.
defendant then believed, and still believes, he was doing her a
kindness.
"And this defendant further answering saith, that she has
no recollection of ever stating to Elkalah M. Cohen, when
Simon Gratz called on her, that she, the defendant, had no
idea of seeing Simon Gratz, and was as much surprised at his
calling on her as Miss Cohen could possibly be; nor has she
any recollection of any private interview between herself and.
John Moss, at any time when Elkalah M. Cohen was ft this
defendant's; nor is she able to say how soon after the death
of Beliah Cohen this defendant had an interview with Simon
Gratz; nor more paiticularly to state what passed at that or
any other interview than she has already stated.
"And this defendant further answering saith, that five hundred and fifty dollars, part of the consideration of the said
agreement and conveyance, were paid to this defendant by L.
*J. Levy and the rest by Simon Gratz; nd that the total
amount of said consideration was agreed upon by and between
this defendant and Simon Gratz; and that there was no other
consideration of the same than the sid sum of fifteen hundred
dollars," &c.
The agreement itself thus entered into was as follows: "Acts to be performed by Mrs. Leah Phillips, surviving executrix of Joseph Simon, deceased:"1. To execute deed for Michael Gratz's interest in unsold
lands.
"2. To direct her attorney in suit, (in the Court of Common Pleas of Lancaster County, of January term, 1822,) No.
163, - Simon Gratz, Joseph Gratz, and Jacob Gratz, Administrators of Michael Gratz, deceased, v. Levi Phillips, Leah
Phillips, and Beliah Cohen, Executors of Joseph Simon, deceased. - Amicable action, August term, 1822, award of referees in favor of plaintiffs for $ 2,967.34, to bring up the
case on agreement, then permit the exceptions to be overruled,
and the award affirmed.
".3. To settle the sum due on the sale of house and lots in
Carlisle, in judgment in Supreme Court, whirh shall be submitted to the auditors to report thereon.
"4. In the suit, Levi Phillips, Leah Phillips, and Beliah
Cohen, Executors of Joseph Simon, deceased, v. Simon Gratz,
Joseph Gratz, and Jacob Gratz, Administrators of Michael
Gratz, deceased. - In the court of Lancaster County, September term, 1828. No. 2. Mrs. Phillips and her attorney to
direct discontinuance of the action.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

9

Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

"5. To transfer all her interest in the estate of Joseph Simon
to Simon Gratz for the sum of $
(this blank amount to
be fixed) ; if the product of this shall produce a sum exceeding
the amount of the above judgments, and the sum to be paid as
a consideration, then the excess to be paid over to Mrs. Leah
Phillips.
"The blank to be filled up with fifteen hundred dollars; five
hundred dollars in hand, five hundred dollars in one year, and
five hundred dollars in two years.

"S. GRATZ.

"Feruary 15, 18332'
In the subsequent part of 1833, when the heirs of Beliah Cohen acquired a knowledge of this transaction, they applied to
the State court in the county where the letters testamentary
of J. Simon's estate had been granted, to dismiss Mrs. Phillips
from her trust as executrix. But the court refused to do so,
and she continued to be executrix as long as she lived.
In January, 1839, as has been already stated, the complainants filed their bill. They were two of the children and heirs
of Beliah Cohen; the other children were citizens of Pennsylvania, and were made defendants.
After the filing of the bill, but before answer, Simon Gratz
died, and after putting in her answer, Leah Phillips died also ;
and their respective representatives were made parties by bills
of revivor.
The bill claimed to set aside the agreement and the deeds
made to Simon Gratz, or, if the court would not grant them
that reqiedy because the lands had passed into the hands of
bond fide purchasers f"rom Gratz, then that Gratz should be decreed to account for the value of them. The agreement and
the deeds made in pursuance of it were alleged to be fraudulent on two grounds ; 1st. As between the parties themselves, because advantage
was taken of the necessities, weakness, and ignorance of an
old woman, to obtain a transfer of the whole estate confided to
her -charge, for a consideration wholly inadequate, upon an
agreement approved by her'friends, to sell. no more than her
own interest.
2d. As against the children of Beliah Cohen, because the purchaser colluded with the executrix or trustee in making a fraudulent application of the trust property to her own use, and to
pay a judgment in favor of the purchaser, to the payment of
which the complainants and their property were not bound to
contribute.
The defendants* all having answered, and a-general replica-

10

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et aL v. Cohen et',A.

tion having been filed, much evidence was taken upon points
which it is not necessary tospecify. Amongst other proceedings was an issue at law to Idetermine the value of the lands.
In October, 1847, the cause came on for argument before
the Circuit Court, which decreed in favor of the complainants,
and that the executors of Simon Gratz should pay to the
children of Beliah Cohen the one half of what Gratz had sold
the lands for, and cohvey a moiety of the unsold part Reference was made to a master to state an account, &e. Exceptions were taken to the report of the master, some of which
were-sustained and others overruled. The final decree of the
court was as follows " That the said Louisa Gratz, Edward Gratz, David Gratz,
and Isaac Prince, executors of the last will and testament of
Simon Gratz, deceased, do account and pay to Samuel M.
Cohen, Eleazer L. Cohen, Sarah M. Cohen, Rachel M. Cohen,
Elkalah M. Cohen, Abraham M. Cohen, Joseph S. Cohen, and
Joseph S. Cohen, administrator of Rebecca M. Cohen, deceased,
children of Beliah Cohen, deceased,. the sum of $ 9,415.29,
with interest thereon from October 14, 1847, and costs; and
that the said executors shall convey, by proper and sufficient assurances in law,, the one moiety of the interest of
Joseph Simon in all that certain tract of land deaignated in
the deed of the Sd of April, 1833, from Leah Phillips to Simon
Gratz by the warranty name of Samuel Laird.
" Master's costs, $100, to follow the decree. Order for payment accordingly, 29th January, 1848."
The defendants appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. 1eed and Mr. Clarkson, for
the appellants, and
r. Dallas and Mr. Budd, for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants made the following points I. There is no such evidence of fraud on the part either of
the executrix, Mrs. Phillips, in making the sale of the lands, or
of Mr. Gratz in purchasing, as will authorize the rescission of
the contract.
II. The appellees, children of Mrs. Cohen, are in no way injured by the agreement between Mr. Gratz and Mrs. Phillips,
their interest either as heirs of their mother, or under the will
of Mr. Simon, being more than absorbed by the judgment of
$7,916, and the debt of Mrs. Cohen ($6,500) as executrix to
her father's estate.
I III. That Beliah Cohen, under tne last codicil to Joseph
Simon's will, took an absolute estate, and not an estate for
life, and Levi Phillips was a trustee for her. Such is the plain

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

meaning of the words of the codicil. "A power which, by the
will, the party is required to execute as a duty, makes him a
trustee for the exercise of it, and allows no discretion whether he
wvill exercise it or not. The court adopts the principle as to
trusts, and will not permit his negligence, accident, or other circumstances to disappoint the interest of those for whose benefit he is to execute it." Brov~n v. Higgs, 8 Ves. 574; 1 Story's
Equity, § 98; 2 Tb. § 1068; Lindenberger v. Maflack, 4 Wah.
C. C. R. 278; Coates's Appeal, 2 Barr, Penn. State Rep. 129.
If Beliah Cohen had an absolute estate, then debts -and judgments against her bound it, and the learned judge erred
in saying that was a misapplication of trust funds. It was
an application of funds not belonging to Beliah Cohen's
children.
IV. The proceeds of the lands which the appellees seek to
recover, if they exceeded the amount of the judgment referred
to in the acts to be performed, are liable to a claim on the part
of the representatives of Mrs. Phillips, if to any body. The
appellees do not claim under her.
V. This is a stale demand for the interference of a court of
equity, which will not be favored. In 1833, when this alleged
fraud was discovered, and the plaintiffs below sought red ess
in the State courts, Simon Gratz, the only individual acquainted with the details of these perplexed transactions, was in full
life and vigor. In 1839, when the bill was filed, he was on his
death-bed, and died in July, 1839. For five years and eleven
months the plaintiffs slept on -their rights. In a month the
statute of Pennsylvania would have barred the claim by express limitation. Where an application is made for the interposition of this court, and there has been laches, it is not
necessary that the actual limitation fixed by the statute should
apply. This is well settled. Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jac.
& Walk. 141: "At all times courts of equity have, upon
general principles of their own, even where there was no
statutable bar, refused relief to - stale- demands where the
party has slept upon his rights"; cited with approval, Miller
v. A'Intyre, 6 Peters, 66. Itis a simple tuestion, says Judge
McLean, "Has the party lept on his rights?"
Coalson v.
Walton, 9 Peters, 83.
The doctrine that lapse of time may be used as a defence in
equity, is far more favored than formerly. *Whenthe party is
dead, probably his clerks and agents also dead, there being no
one who can give any explanation of a paper, or show how it
was prepared, and under what circumstances, this doctrine is
especially favored. White v. Parnther, 1 Knapp (Privy Council), 226.

12

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

It is a most important element where a party sought to be
affeqted has been allowed to die, and executors are made parties who have no knowledge of the original transaction. Ellison
v. Moffat, 1 Johns. Ch. 47.
This doctrine is applicable to cases where fraud is charged;
Prescott v. Hubbell, 1 Hill, Ch. 213; and this where the party
charged is considered, as in this case, a trustee by operation of
law, though it might not be as between a direct trustee and
his cestui que trust. Decouche v. Savetier, 3 Johns. Ch. 190.
Where a party is chargeable with laches to the extent of the
statute of limitations, he must state in his bill that the discovery of the fraud was within the limitation. 1 Hill, Ch. 214.
In Carr v. Chapman, 5 Leigh, 185, Lord Camden's doctrine
in Smith v. Clay, 3 Bro. Ch. 640, was cited with approval:
"Nothing can call this court into action but conscience, good
faith, and reasonable diligence; when this is wanting, this
court is always passive" ; and it is on these principles courts
of equity, though they have adopted, are not tied down by,
statutes of limitation. A shorter period of time, accompanied
by gross negligence and acts of abandonment by those having
an interest and competent to assert their rights, will bring thei.r
case within Lord Camden's principles. If the court saw that
it was called on to do injustice, it would not move, however
strong in point of original right the claim might be. So in
Wagner v. Baird, 7 Howard, 234; and Bowman v. Wathen, 1
Howard, 189.
In McKnight v. Taylor, 1 Howard, 168, the statute of limitations was, as here, within a few months of coming into oper.
ation, yet plaintiffs were concluded by laches; there must be
reasonable diligence to call into action the power of this court.
Thereis difficulty which the law recognizes in doing justice,
when the original transaction has become obscure and evidence
may be lost.
To. the same effect are Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Peters, 416, and
Philip-s .Belden, 2 Edw. 1. Equity gives effect to relatively
short lapse of time, discouraging claims not promptly made,
especially where there is no personal disability or other impediment.
No court has been more emphatic in its language favoring
lapse of time than this court. Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheaton,
481: "Length of time necessarily obscures all human evidence,
and it thus removes from the parties all imihediate means to
verify the nature of the original transaction; it operates by way
of presumption in favor of innocence and against any imputation of fraud. Fraud or breach of trust ought not to be lightly
imputed to the living, for the legal presumption is the other

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

13

Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et aL

way; and as to the dead, who are not here to answer for themselves, it would be the height of injustice and cruelty to d isturb their ashes and violate the sanctity of the grave, unless the
evidence be clear beyond a reasonable doubt." Also to the
same effect, and that laches or lapse of time may be resorted to
as a defence on the evidence without being pleaded, Giles v.
Baremore, 5 Johns. Ch.550; Baker v. Biddle, 1 Baldwin, 417.
For the general doctrine as to stale demands in equity, and
the effect of parties not promptly asserting their rights, see Salsbury v. Bagott, 2 Swanst. 613 ; Beckford v. Wade, 17 Yes. 97;
Andrew v. Wrigley, 4 Bro. Ch.125; Brown v.Deloraine, 3 Bro.
Ch.639; Hovenden v. Annesley, 2 Sch. & Lef. 629; Herey v.
flinwoody, 4 Bro. Ch. 268; Wych v. East India Co., 3 P.
Wms.309; Pickering v. Lord Stamford, 2 Yes. 582.; Christophers v. Sparke, 2 Jac. & Walk. 223.
As a rule, the statute of limitations does not operate in
cases of trust or fraud, but as soon as fraud is discovered it
begins to rise. Wamberzee v. Kenneay, 4 Desaus. 479.
In Veazie v. Williams, 3 Story, 629, there were five years and
a half between the sale alleged to be fraudulent and the filing
of the bill to avoid, it, and the court held the lapse of time to be
a bar, because by time the evidence as to the original transaction had been obscured. A court of equity should never he
active in granting relief where the circumstances are of such a
nature as that it may become the instr uent of as much injustice as it seeks to redress. To the same effect, Gould v.
Gould, 3 Story, 516.
The circumstances from which the laches in this case are
deduced are very flagrant; Five years and eleven montbs
were allowed to elapse after the discovery of the alleged fraud.
If the judgment of $ 7,916, in favor of Gratz's Administra,
tors v. Simon's Executors,,was a lien on the real estate, the
Cohens waited till that lien had expired, which it did in five
years, or 1838. They never charged a fraud whilst Simon
Gratz -was in life and health.
The first allegation of the plaintiffs is in J.S. Cohen's affidavit at Lancaster, 25th March, 1833, within a month of the
date of the agreement. In this there is no averment of fraud
in either Leah Phillips or Simon Gratz. The most is an implication -f such fraud.
In the letter of the Cohen family to the administrator of
Mlichael Gratz, dated 29th March, 1832, the same guarded and
doubtful phraseology is used, but there is no averment of fraud.
So in the affidavit of 8th April, 183.
In the affidavit of J. S. Cohen, of 29th July, 1833, no fraud
is charged, the strongest word being "collusion."
VOL. X1.
2

14

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. 'v. Cohen et al.

No averment of fraud was made till this bill was filed in
January, 1839; and then, as above stated, Simon Gratz was
ill, and he died before his answer could be prepared. It will
be remembered that the insinuations of collusion in these affidavits were promptly met by counter-affidavits from Leah
Phillips, to which, as well as to her answer, the court are particularly referred.
Of this gross laches of nearly six years, the learned judge
took no other notice than in saying, that it was to be lamehted
that Mr. Gratz died before his answer was prepared. In this
omission it is submitted that he erred. The deposition of ]1Mr.
Gratz is no equivalent to an answer to the various and specific
allegations of the plaintiffs' bill.
Had the plaintiffs interposed at once on the discovery of the
imputed fraud, or at any time short of six years, or for five
years and eleven months, the lands would not have been sold.
The plaintiffs lay by till the lien of the judgment was gone, and
the lands disposed of atgreat trouble and by great effort, for it
is manifest that nothing but the greatest exertion and constant
supervision by Mr. Gratz and his agents could have disposed
of them to even moderate advantage.
The argument of the counsel for the appellees consisted
chiefly in an examination of the evidence, to show that the decree of the Circuit Court was correct. A great part of this testimony has been necessarily omitted in the statement of the
case, and the argument drawn from it cannot therefore be condensed. The authorities cited by the counsel were the following.
Simon Gratz was not a bond fide purchaser without notice
of his grantor's breach of trust, and his representatives were
rightfully decreed by the court to be trustees for the benefit of
the Cohens, and charged with the value of the lands so wrongfully obtained.
"Courts of equity will decree a trust in invitum against a
party ,'ho purchases trust property in violation of the objects
of the trust, and will force the trust upon the conscience of the
guilty party, and compel him to hold the'property subject to it
in the same manner as the trustees held it." 1 Story's Equity,
395-405.
Scott v. Tyler, 2 Dickens 725: "If one concerts with an executor or legatees, by obtaining the testator's effects at a nominal price, or at a fraudulent undervalue, or by applying the real
estate to the purchase of other subjects for his own behoof, or
in extinguishing the private debt of the executor, or in any oth.
er manner, contrary to the duty of the office of the executor,

DECEMBER TERM. 1850.

15

Gratzl'Ex ecutors et aL v. Cohen et al.
such concert will involve the seeming purchaser, or his pawnee,
and make him liable for tJxe full value." .2 Story's Equity,

1257.

Hill v. Simpson, 7 Ves. jr. 152: "91
Transfer by an executor,
a clear misapplication of assets immediately after the death,
to secure a debt of the executor auf.l future advances, under
circumstances of gross negligence, though not direct fraud, set
aside by general legatees.",1
M'Leod v. Drummond, 17 Ves. jr. 169. L.ord Eldon concurs
in the opinion expressed by the Master of the Rolls, in Hill v.
Simpson, that a general pecuniary or residuary legatee had the
right to follow the assets. 1 Story's Equity, 424.
Wormley v. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 421: "Wherever the purchaser is affected with notice of facts,-which in law-constitute
a breach of trust, the sale is void as to him, and a mere general
denial of all knowledge of fraud will not avail him, if the transaction is such as a court of equity cannot sanction." See also
Mechanics' Bank v. .Seaton, 1 Peters, q09.
. The appellants' allegation of laches is not sustained by the
evidence, nor do their authorities justify the use to which they
are applied. A comparison between the facts of this case.and
those of the decisions referred to, will show that the lapse of
time which prevented the interposition of courts & equity far
exceeded that which is here the ground of complaint, and did
not admit of the explanations which excuse.the comparatively
brief delay in the complainants in seeking a redress for their
wrongs in a federal court.
An examination of the following leading cases, cited by-theappellants, will show what the courts have considered as stale
claims.
In Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481, it was determined that
the lapse of forty years, and the death of all the original parties,
was sufficient to presume the discharge and extinguishinent of
a trust proved once to have existed by strong circumstances.
This was in analogy to the rule of law, which, after a lapse of
time, presumes the payment of a debt, surrepder of a deed, and
extinguishment of a trust.Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Sac. & Walk. 1. It was held that
laches and non-claim by the owner of an equitable estpte, u4der no dhsability, for twen'y years, where there has been no
fraud, will constitute a bar to equitable relief, by analogy to
the statute of limitations.
Miller v. M'Intyre, 6 Peters, 65." "At least twenty-six years,"
says Judge McLean, "elapsed after the adverse possessieR
was taken by the defendants, before suit was brought against
them by the complainants, and nineteen years from the decease
of their ancestors."

16

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et aL

Coulson v. Walton, 9 Peters, 63. Notwithstanding a delay
of more than thirty years in the institution of the suit, the
court did not consider that lapse of time, under the circumstances of the case, should operate against the right set up by
the complainants to have the specific execution of a contract
decreed.
Baker v. Biddle, 1 Baldwin, 419. "The act of limitation,"
says Judge Baldwin, "has twice run over the plaintiff's claim,
and, being barred at law; we can see no equitable circumstancesto take it'out of the rule."
Piatt v..Vattier, 9 Peters, 416. "1iThere has been," say tie
court, "a clear adverse possession of thirty years without the
acknowledgment of any equity or trust estate in Bartle, and no
circumstances are stated in the bill, or shown in evidence, which
overcome the decisive influence of such an adverse possession."
M'Knight v. Taylor, 1 Howard, 167. "In relation to this
claim," says Chief Justice Taney, "it appears that nineteen
years and three months were suffered to elapse, before any application was, made for the execution of the trust by which it
had been secured. No reason is assigned for this delay; nor
is it alleged to have been occasioned in any degree by obsta.
cles thrown in the way of the appellant. As the record stands,
it would seem to have been the result of mere negligence and
laches."
Gould v. Gould, 3 Story, 516. The delay was for nineteen
years.
. Veazie v. Williams, 3 .Story, 631, has no analogy to the
present case, and was reversed in 8 Howard, 134; there was
no fraud imputed to the defendants, aid the plaintiff, says
Judge Story, (pp. 631, 632,) "is not now at liberty to shift his
own loss upon the defendants, or to make them responsible for
the misdeeds of Head, to which they were not parties, and
whom the plaintiff has been content to release from all respon.
sibility."
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, the plaintiffs in the court below, as children of
Solomon and Beliah Cohen, and grandchildren of Joseph Simon, claimed an interest in certain lands which had been conveyed to Simon Gratz by Mrs. Phillips, the surviving executrix of Joseph Simon.
That conveyance was alleged to have been fraudulent, and
the plaintiffs prayed that it be set aside, and Simon Gratz be
required to account for any sales and rents of the land. The
court below decreed that the conveyance was void for fraud;
vet, as the lands had been bought of Gratz since by innocent

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

17

Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

purchasers, declined to set it aside, but ordered the respondent
to pay over the full value of the lands, and without any deduction for debts, advances, or expenses.
This is an appeal from that decision; and in order to determine whether evidence enough exists to show that fraud was
practised by either of the parties to the conveyance, as it is
charged on both of them, it will be necessary to ascertain how
the lands were situated, and the relation to them in which the
grantor and grantee, as well as the plaintiffs, then stood.
Some time prior to 1804, Joseph Simon and Michael Gratz
purchased in partnership large tracts of land in Pennsylvania,
the title deeds running to the former alone, under an agreement to account to the latter for half the proceeds. As sales
of them were made from time to time, difficulties and litigation arose between them as to the proceeds, extending even to
eight reported cases in the courts of Pennsylvania, and all of
which appear to have been decided against Simon.
He complained much that Gratz had obtained from L,....
more than he was entitled to. Accordingly, whcn Simon made
his will and died in 1804, he forbade, by the last codicil, any
portion of his estate going to Michael Gratz or his wife Miriam, who was the daughter of Simon, and did not make either
of them executors on his estate. But he appointed Levi Phillips
and wife, the latter being another daughter, and Mrs. Cohen, a
third daughter, executors. At first he bequeathed one third of
the income of the residue of his estate to each daughter, but
by the codicil increased Mrs. Phillips's and Mrs. Cohen's share
each to one half of the principal, and, withdrawing Mrs. Gratz's
share, empowered Levi Phillips to give to Mrs. Cohen the principal rather than the interest, or income. At the death of either
daughter, her share was to vest in her children, as tenants in
common. He gave to his executors, and the survivors of them,
full power to sell his real, as well as personal estate.
Some suits between Simon aad MIichael Gratz in relation
to their partnership property were pending at the death of the
former; others were soon after brought, and others still, as sales
of the land were made by the executors, and recoveries were
had insome of them for portions of what Simon and they had
sold. 'By the death bf Mr. Phillips in 1832, and of Mrs. Cohen
in January, 1833, Mrs. Phillips had become the sole surviving
executrix,, and she in February, 1833, proposed to Simon
Gratz, executor of Michael Gratz, to make a final settlement
of the claims on his part against the estate of Joseph Simon.
At that time, Simon Gratz held unsatisfied a judgment against
Levi Phillips and Mrs. Cohen, which had been recovered in
1831 for $ 7,916.73.

18

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et aL v. Cohen et aL'

They had not been' called "Executors of Simon" in the
declaration, but the subject-matter of the action was connected with his estate, and with the proceeds of sales of the
partnership lands.
There was another action pending, which was brought by
.Gratz's Executors against Simon's Executors, in which an
award had been made to Gratz for $ 2,967, but exceptions had
been taken to it, not yet acted on.
At that time, too, Mrs. Cohen had received from Simon's
estate, as early as 1812, $ 1,008, which, with interest to 1833,
amounted to near $ 6,500, and none of it had ever been refunded by her.
In this state of things the inquiry arises, whether, in the proposals by Mrs. Phillips, the negotiation for a settlement, and the
conveyance of the lands to Gratz under the conditions and
circumstances of the case, fraud is manifest so as to justify the
rescinding of that conveyance, or if not because the land is
now in the hands of innocent purchasers from Gratz, to make
the latter account for its whole value as if the sale to him had
been void. In deciding this question, let us look first +o the
terms and circumstances of the agreement.
She stipulated, in relation to the suit then pending, to have
the exceptions overruled, and the award confirmed for $ 2,967.
She agreed further to discontinue a suit of doubtful merits pending by Simon's Executors against S. Gratz et al., Executors of
Michael Gratz, and also as executrix to convey to S. Gratz all
the unsold lands of the partnership, and all her own personal
interest in Joseph Simon's estate. On the part of S. Gratz,
he agreed to pay her $ 1,500 cash, - though nothing is said in
the writing as to the release or discharge of the judgments
against Joseph Simon's executors or other claims by S. Gratz;
but they thus became virtually discharged, as all the remaining
estate of Joseph Simon was then conveyed to S.'Gratz. Nothing appears to have been said, likewise,'as to the debt due from
Mrs. Cohen, but probably that was deemed quite an equivalent
to what remained of her share in Simon's estate; and she
being dead, this was left as it had stood for twenty years.
On these leading facts, the first ground assigned to'show
fraud by S. Gratz is a supposed deficiency of consideration for
this agreement and the conveyance. But in the family settlement it is proper to look to equitable circumstances, and not to
expect all such technical formalities as prevail between strangers. The consideration actually paid in money was $-1,500,
and though Mrs. Phillips may have regarded it as for her rather
than the estate of Simn, yet it made little difference, as she
was the only residuary devisee of Simon surviving; at4 if

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

19

Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

Mrs. Cohen had been already paid more than her share, as
seems probable, this sum would virtually go to Ms. Phillips
alone, as it would first in form belong to the estati, and then
to her as devisee. Itwas in fact also paid to her for matters
connected with the estate, and -while she was executrix of the
estate, instead of being, as is argued, a personal bribe to her..
Though a technical difference might exist between the executors as to their several liabilities (14 Serg. & Rawle, 152),
and though different modes of proceeding might be necessary
to enforce them, yet the estate of Simon was the only fund
liable, The interest in the partnership lands, which belonged
to Iichael Gratz, was the only source of all his claims, and the
parties properly looked at it in its true equitable light, through
all the varnish and varieties of form, and negotiated with a
view to the whole.
Thus, if one of these judgments did not describe the defendants as executors, yet the other did, and the first one was
founded on the proceeds of sale by them as executors of lands,
the title to which had stood in the name of Simon, though a
moiety belonged to A'Iichael Gratz, and the executors were acting in trust for Gratz as well as Simon. Now*the $ 1,500 in
money, and the $ 10,000 in the two judgments, with interest,
were probably very near the value of the lands as situated in
1833. But to remove all doubt as to the fairness and fulness
of the consideration, Simon Gratz further agreed to pay over
to Mrs. Phillips any surplus the lands might yield after paying
all reasonable expenses and legal claims. This cures every exception to the inadequacy of the consideration.
If the surplus, after an inquiry into the matter, and after allowing to Michael Gratz or his estate and executors all which
is just, should be considerable, an administrator of Ms. Phillips
could enforce its payment on this agreement; and the administrator of Mrs. Cohen, instead of being injured or defrauded,
could obtain her share, and divide it among her children, the
present complainants, if she had not before her death received
enough to cover this, as well as former interests or dividends.
It is next said in support of the alleged fraud, that Mrs.
Phillips was an aged female, little accustomed to business, and
likely to be overreached by so shrewd and capable a man as
Simon Gratz. But Mrs. Phillips, though aged, is -proved to
have been intelligent and capable. She applied to him" rather
than he to her to make the settlement, and he suggested the
advice and aid of her business friends rather than attempting
a secret and sudden settlement. She did consult two intelligent business friends. Full time was given to make inquiries
and calculations, rather than using haste. Though Mrs. Phillips

20

SUPREME COURT.
Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

did not confer with the plaintiffs, she was not bound to consult
the Cohen heirs more than others; and the contract by Simon
Gratz to pay over any surplus secured any eventual interest
of theirs as fully as they themselves could have done, and
wisely put an end to a protracted family litigation, as expensive
and ruinous as it was derogatory.
Mrs. Phillips, at her advanced age, being sole representative
of Simon's estate, had a good and sufficient motive to be
anxious, at the first opportunity after Mrs. Cohen's death, to
close that estate up, and the lawsuits and the trusts, and was
not likely to do it then, as assumed, because she could then
more easily defraud. She could not then, by haVing the $ 1,500
paid to herself, deprive the plaintiffs, if she desired, of any
share in it they might be entitled to.. It was received on account of interests conveyed in the Simon estate.
She was both executrix with a right to sell, and a devisee
with a personal interest in the estate of Simon. What she
received, then, of Simon Gratz, went to herin both capacities,
it being proceeds of Joseph Simon's estate, and worked no
injury to Mrs. Cohen's children, as Mrs. Phillips in her character of executrix would be liable to them for their sbare in
what Gratz paid, if they had not already, through Mrs. Cohen,
obtained enough to cover this.
Too much importance has, in our view, been attached to the
payment being to her, and not repeating the words "as executrix," and the recovery of one judgment being against the
other executors, without repeating their titles. These mere
descriptions, inserted or omitted, cannot, however, in chancery,
change the essence of a transaction, when they had nothing to
receive, or grant, or account for, except as executors of Joseph
Simon, and where the whole matters in controversy are connected with lands, the title of which was nominally in him,
but the beneficiary interest in part in Michael Gratz and his
executors.
Again, it is urged against the validity of the conveyance,
that it included some lands of Simon, in which Michael Gratz
had no interest. But Mrs. Phillips, as surviving executrix, had
a right under the will to sell any estate of Simon; and there
was a good reason for selling the whole on this occasion, in
order, at her advanced age, to close up the administration of
Simon's estate, as well as to convey enough to Simon Gratz to
satisfy his claims on it as executor.
He, too, could manage it better than any female, and instead
of taking -advantage of her, or any body she represented, he
became liable to account for any surplus, if any should occur.
It is further urged, that the wishes of Joseph Simon to dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

21

Gratz's Executors et al. v. Cohen et al.

inherit Michael Gratz and his family were thus overcome, and
are not to be trifled with.
But the inflexible will of Joseph Simon against Michael
(ratz and his family having any portion of his estate was not
thwarted in this way, since they received nothing as devisees or
heirs, but merely purchased for a valuable consideration what
any person in the community had a right to buy, and obtained in the end chiefly land which S. Gratz's ancestor owned
wnd paid for as much as J. Simon.
In fine, we are at a loss to see any strong indications of fraud
in any part of this transaction, either by S. Gratz or Mrs.
Phillips; and most of what appears, at first, in some degree
objectionable, seems reconciled with perfect integrity when we
advert to the legal presumptions in favor of those charged with
misbehavior, and to the family connection between the parties
and the preponderating equities of the case.
These conclusions would not be different, whether the principal of Mrs. Cohen's share was under the last codicil to be
considered as vesting in her, or only the interest of it.
Empowering an executor to make a change like that in a
bequest is, however, usually regarded as .expressing a wish to
have it done, if it be not clearly a mere power, and to require
that that be considered as done which ought to be done, if forgotten or omitted. Brown v. -Iiggs, 8 Yes. 574; 4 Wash. C. C.
278; 1 Story, Eq. § 98, and 2 Story, Eq. § 1068. Considering
what are our views as to the vdlidity of the conveyance, other
points and exceptions in this case need not be examined, and
especially that connected with the length. of tiffe which elapsed
after the conveyance to S. Gratz, and before the filing of the
present bill to avoid it.
Let the judgment below be reversed, and the case sent back
to have the bill, dismissed, unless the present parties agree to
let others in interest come in, and to reconstruct and alter the
character of the bill by amendments, so as to carry the agreement between Ms. Phillips and Gratz into effect, and pray for
the surplus or balance, if any be found due from Gratz, after
paying all he has advanced, and all his-expenses, *andhis equitable as well as legal claims on Mrs. Phillips and the estate of
Joseph Simon.
Mi. Justice NELSON dissented.
Mr. Justice GRIER did not sit on the trial of this cause,
being indisposed at the time.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the.,

22

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault et al.

record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that the decree *of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. JAIiES A. GIRAULT,
WILLIAMl M. GwIN, HAY BATTLE HARmIsbN, AND ALExANDER J.
MCMURTRY.
Where an action was brought by the United States upon the official bond of a receiver of public money, a plea that the United States had accepted another bond
from the receiver was bad. The new bond could be no satisfaction for the damages that had accrued for the breach of the condition of the old one.
Pleas, also, were bad, alleging that the receiver had made returns to the Treasury
Department, admitting that he bad received money which the pleas asserted that
he never had received. They were bad, because thet addressed themselves entirely to the evidence, which, it was supposed, the United States would bring forward upoik the trial.
Besides, these pleas were had, because the sureties in the bond were bound to protect
the United States from the commission of the very fraud which they attempted to
set up as a defence.
The case of the United States v. Boyd, 5 Howard, 29, examined.
Another plea taking issue upon the breach should not have been.demurred to. The
demurrer being general as to all the pleas, and bad a3 to this one, judgment was
properly given against the plaintiffs in the court below.
By the laws of Mississippi, where a joint action is brought upon. a bond or note,
the case must be finally disposed of in the coatrt below, with respect to all the
parties upon the record, before it is carried up to the appellate court, otherwise it
is error.
Where this error occurs, the practice of this court is to dismiss the case fbr want of
jurisdiction, and remand it to the court below to be proceeded in and finally disposed of.

Tucis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for "the Northern District of :Nis-

SISSIPpi.
The United States sued out process against James A. Girault, William M. Gwin, Hay Battle Harrison, and Alexander
J. McMurtry, and declared for a debt of $100,000 by bond,
bearing date the 8th of July, 1838, executed by the defendants
thatof the
with condition,
to
UnitedStates,
the defendUnited
President
by thereciting
had been appointed
antthe
Girault
States, by commission bearing date the 2d of June, 1838,
receiver of pubio money for the district of lands subject to sale

