570

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Power's Heirs.

land, be, and the same is hereby, vacated and annulled; that
the said David M. Hughes do, within one calendar month from
the time of filing the mandate of this court in the said Circuit
Court, surrender said patent to the clerk of said court; that the
said clerk shall certify under the seal of the said court, on the
face of the said patent, that it is annulled by this' decree, and
then transmit the same to the Commissioner of the General
Land-Office at Washington city; that the said David M.
Hughes be, and he is hereby, for ever enjoined from prosecuting any suit in law or equity on said patent as evidence of
title. And it is further adjudged and decreed, that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to carry this decre@ into effect, and for such
further proceedings to be.had herein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, as to law and justice may appertain.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. THoriAs P6WER'S HEIRs.
The twelfth section of the regulations of O'Reilly in 1770 required, that there should
be an order of survey, a proces verbal by the surveyor of the province, three
copies of the plat made out by him, one of which should be deposited in the office
of the scrivener of the government, and Cabildo, a second delivered to the governor, and the third to the-proprietor, to be annexed to the titles of the grant.
Where a grant was alleged to have been issued by the Spanish governor of Louisiana in 1781, and the only evidence of it was a copy taken from a notary's book,
the title was invalid.
At the date of the grant, viz. f st Angust%1781, the Spanish governor of Louisiana
was only the military commandant of that part of West Florida in which the lands
granted were situated. He held the country by right of conquest. The Spanish
laws had not been introduced into the country, and it was not ceded to Spain by
Great Britain until 1783. The governor had therefore no authority to grant land
in 1781.
Under the acts of Congress of 1824 and 1844, the District Court had no power to
act upon evidence of mere naked possession, unaccompanied by written evidence,
to confer,relating
a title of some decription.
conferring,
or professing
Under
the various
acts of Congress
to laud titles in that tract of country beof north latitude, isa
the thirty.first degree States,
and
Perdido,
tween the Iberville, the
although it
against the United
barred
not
is
unrecorded,
title,
complete
States.
private
claim
derived
from
the
United
barred against any

THis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
. It was the case of a petition, and amendeO petition, presented by the heirs of Thomas Power to the District Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi, the first on the 15th of June,
1846, and the latter on the 11th of November, 1846, under the
act of 1824, as revived and reenacted by that of 1844, claiming
two very valuable islands, lying off the coast of the State of
Mississippi, opposite the Bay of Biloxi.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

571

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

The petition and amended petition, in substance, set forth,
that, before the year 1760, Deer Island was occupied, with the
verbal consent of the provincial authorities, by Pierre Laclede
and Pierre Songy, who, on the 11th of September, 1760, sold
all their rights to Andr6 Jung; that on the 7th of March, 1761,
the said Jung made a similar sale to Ignace Brontin; and that,
on the 8th of April, Brontin sold all his rights to Francisco
Caminada.
That afterwards, on the 1st of August, 1781, Caminada received a grant of the said island called Deer Island, and another
called Ship Island, from Bernardo de Galvez, then Spanish
governor of Louisiana, which, it is alleged, then extended to
the east beyond the said islands, as follows, viz.: "Don Bernardo de Galvez, Knight Pensioner of the royal and
distinguished Spanish Order of Charles the Third, Colonel
of the Royal Army, Governor, Intendant, and InspectorGeneral of the Province of Louisiana, &c., &c.
"Considering the foregoing acts performed by Don Francisco Caminada, which establish the right of pogsession which he
has to the tvo islands, Deer and Ship, situated in front of the
coast of Biloxi, recognizing them to have been made out
agreeably to the order of survey, witliut causing prejudice to
the neighbors adjoining, and without any opposition on their
part; on the contrary, yielding, as 'it appears, their assistance
to the said acts, approving them as wd do.approve them, there-,
for using the authority which the king has *confided to us
(otorganos),we grant in his royal name, to the saidDon Fran.
cisco Caminada, the possession of the aforesaid two islands,
Deer and Ship; that as his own property he may dispose of
them, and enjoy them, governing himself by said acts, and observing in every thing that which has been ordered foi the settlement of the subject-matter.
" We give these presents, signed with our hand, sealed with
the seal of our arms, and countersigned by the undersigned
Secretary of his Majesty for this government.
In New Orleans, on the 1st day of August, 1781.
"BRNARDO DE GALvEZ.

"By order of his Excellency.
"MANUEL

ANDRES LOPEZ DE ARMESTO.

"Registered in book of records for said object, in the archives
of my office, at folio 14. New Orleans, November 8th, 1781.
"' LONARD MTARANGE, Notary2'
The above, being a notarial copy, was the only evidence exhibited of the grant. The original was lost.

572

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Power's Heirs.

The petition further stated, that on the 2d of December,
1806, Prosper Prieur, acting as the testamentary executor of
Caminada, sold tire two islands to Thomas Power, to whom
the petitioners are heirs.
The amended petition further stated, that Caminada was
an inhabitant of Louisiana, where he lived and died; that the
Surveyor-General of Mississippi, acting under instructions of
the Treasury Department, was executing, by a deputy, a survey of the islands, which had not been completed; but Deer
Island was estimated to contain about two thousand acres, and
Ship Island three thousand acres; that the petitioners had no
knowledge or information of any adverse claim of title, save and
'except transient and temporary squatters, who from time to time
had occasionally occupied parts of each island; and that they
had no knowledge or belief that the title was ever presented by
their ancestor toany board of commissioners whatever.
To this Petition the district attorney filed his answer on the
13th of January, 1847, and insisted that the original petition
was not filed within the. time-limited by the act of 1824 and
the act of 18E28 amendatory thereto; and that, the amended
petition not having been filed until the 11th of November,
1846, the petitioners were barred and precluded from the institution of any suit against the United States, who relied upon
the; act of Congress of 1828 as limiting the right to one year.
But if it should be decided that the limitation was two years
as provided in the act of 1824, they still insisted that the claim
was barred, the, amended petition not having been filed within
two years from the passage of the act of 1844. The answer
further denied the grant to Caminada in 1781, and the sale by
his testamentary executor to Power. But if ever such a sale
was made, they denied the right of the executor to niake it, or
to divest the rights of the heirs of Caminada, or pass any title
to Power. They know nothing of the sale from Laclede and
Songy to Jung, or of the sale to CEfminada, and they required
proof of the identity and rights of the parties claiming. They
further denied that, at the. time of the alleged grant in 1781,
Caminada was an inhabitant of Loisiana, or that he lived
and died there, .or that any order of survey was executed for
Caminada previous to the date of said alleged grant. The
answer further stated, that the allegations in the petition and
amendment were noz sufficient, if true, to authorize a decree
against the United-'States, and claimed the benefit of this objection in the same manner as if it had been relied upon by a
demurrer.
Documents were filed and evidence was taken, but it is not
material to state the substance of either.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

573

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

In November, 1848, the District Court decreed, "that the
claim and title of the petitioners to the two islands or parcels
of land as before described be, and the same are hereby, confirmed to them in full property, the said original ,grant or title,
in the opinion of said court, being good.and valid, in virtue of'
the patent therefor, and in virtue of the treaty of St.. lde-fonso, between Spain and France, of date October, 1800, and
of the treaty of Paris of 1803, for the cession of -Louisiana
to the 'United States, and by the laws of nations, and by the
acts of Congress hereinbefore referred to, under which this
court has cognizance of said case.
"And it is further adjudged and decreed, that, the two several islands aforesaid having each its natural boundary, a survey thereof is therefore dispensed with, and that the petitioners'
title be confirmed to them in the whole extent of the natural
boundaries of said islands respectively; and if, on investigation, it shall appear that the United States has heretofore made
sale of all or any part of said islands, then, a to such sales, the
title hereby confirmed shall stand qualified and inoperative as
to the specific land so sold, and, in place and stead of the land
so sold, the petitioners shall be permitted to enter a like quantity of land within the same land district, which may be subject to sale at private entry."
The United States appealed to this court.
The appeal was argued by Mr. (Iritlenden (Attorney-General), for the appellants, and submitted upon printed argument
by Mr. Henderson,for the appellees.
.lr. Crittendencontended that the decree must be reversed,
for the following reasons.
I. That on the 1st of August, 1781, the date of the alleged
grant, Governor Galvez had no authority to make the grant of
Ship Island and Deer Island to Caminada, the cession by
Great Britain to Spain of that part of the country where they
lie not having been made until the definitive treaty of peace of
the ;3d of September, 1783.
By the treaty of peace of 1763, between Great-Britain,
France, and Spain, it was agreed between France and Great
Britain, "that, for the future, the confines between the dominions of his Britannic Majesty and those of his most Christian
Majesty, in that part of the world, shall be fixed irrevocably by
a line drawn along the middle of the River Mississippi, from its
source to the River Iberville, and from thence by a line drawn
along the middle of this river and the Lakes Maurepas and
Pontchartrain to the sea; and for this purpose the most Chris-

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Power's Heirs.

tian king cedes in full right, and guarantees to his Britannic
Majesty, the river and port of Mobile, and every thing which
he possesses, or ought to possess, on the left side of the River
Mississippi, with the exception of the town of New Orleans,
and of the island in which it is situated, which shall remain
to France." 2 Clark's Land Laws, Appendix, 258.
War having been declared by Spain against Great Britain,
in 1779, Galvez proceeded with a considerable force to invade
the British territory, and on the 14th of March, 1780, Fort
Charlotte, on Mobile River, capitulated to him. Pensacola
also afterwards capitulated to him, on the 9th of May, 1781.
The ireaty by which Great Britain ceded the Floridas to
Spain is dated the 20th of January, 1783.
The authorities to sustain the proposiion are, 1 Kent, 169;
Wheat. Elements, 572; Clark v. U. States, 3 Wash. 104; U.
States v. Hayward, 2 Gallis. 501; Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 9
Cranch, 99; Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Peters, 210; U. States v.
Reynes, 9 Howard, 127; Davis v. Police Jury of Concordia,
Ibid. 280; U. States v,. Heirs of D'Auterive, 10 Howard, 609,
decided the present term.
II. That there is no sufficient evidence of the execution of
the alleged grant by Galvez, and, even if it were proved,. the
claim under it cannot be recognized, because the said alleged
grant was not presented and recorded in pursuance vf the
fourth section of the act of the 25th of April, 1812, entitled
" An act for ascertaining the titles and claims to lands in that
part of Louisiana which lies east of the River Mississippi and
island of New Orleans" 2 Stat. at Large, 715.
III. That if the grant toCaminada were valid, the petitioners have shown no title under it in Thomas Power, or in them
as his heirs, as required by the act of 1824. The deed by
Prieur to Power is not proved, and if it were, it is not shown
that Prieur had any authority to make it.
IV. That- the petitions were hot filed within the time limited
by law, and should have been dismissed.
Mr. Henderson, for the defendants in error, made the following points.
First Point The title of petitioners rests on a full, complete, and perfect grant,-a patent, the original of which is
filed in this case, and is sixty-nine Years old. It was, and is,
effective against all private persons, without- further confirmation by the United States; and when, as aQw, rightfully exhibited against the United States, is -equally valid against
them, as perfect evidence of privae. property; and though a
full legal title, - a " Spanish grant"- is withi the. direct cog-

CEMBER TERIM,

1850.

575

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

nizance of the first section oi the act of 1824, and the proper
subject of this statutory jurisdiction in equity. 9 Peters, 733.
Second Point. The title, out of the United States, being
perfect, legal, and indefeasible, the only question remaining is
the right of the petitioners to that title.
Our first position on this point is, that the United States
have no right or jurisdiction to try the question of title between
the heirs of Caminada, the grantee, and the heirs of Power,
who claim as assignees of the grantee. That, while it may be
a matter of judicial propriety that the United States shouid require a prinizfacie showing by the petitioners that they properly represent the "claim" in controversy, yet they have no
right to demand an issue to try that question as between parties not before the court. It is for the United States,.under the
la-v of 1824, to test the validity of the claim, and ascertain if
the land in controversy is private property.. The State tribunals) -vhere the lands lie, will adjudge the title between its cit.
izens. This inquiry cannot be thus incidentally invoked. 13
Peters, 375; 17 Louisiana, 479.
But, as the attorney of the United States in the court below pressed-this issue upon us, it niay be necessary we should
sustain it here. It involves the inquiry, that, as the petitioners
claim title by a notarial act of conveyance, made-to their ancestor in New Orleans, in 1806, by Prosper Prieur, as.testamentary executor of Carninada, of the lands in question, is there
proof enough in this case, in the absence of direct evidence
of the last will of Caminada, and of Prieur's appointment to
administer it, to sustain. Prieur's act of sale to Power?
And on this point we assume, that this act, being notarial
and authentic, is quasi judicial, and will be presumed to have
been done by proper authority. 9 Pet. 625; 3 Har. & McHen.
5.94; 6 Greenleaf, 145; Civil C,)de of Louisiana, 2233. And
at the date of this sale in 1806, the locus in quo formed part
of the "Territory of Orleans."
And next, that this conveyance, being now forty-iour years
old, requires no proof to authenticate its due and proper eiecution, and that this rule of presumption of the due execution of
the deed necessarily includes all the concomitant prerequisites
to its execution. 1 Greenleaf's Ev. ยง 21, ยง 144; 14 Mass.
257; 6 Greenleaf, 145; 14 Johns. 182; 10 lb. 475; 9 lb. 169;
2 Hawks, 233; 3 Hat. & McHen. 594; 7 La. 370; 2 How. Miss.
819; 5 Ib. 586; 6 Sm. & Mar. 284; 2 Rob. La. 84, 85; 1 Stark.
Ev. 331, 332, note; 2 Stark. 924, notes 1, 2; 4 Wheat. 221; 7
Pet. 266; 2 How. U. S. 316"; 7 Sm. &'Mar. 159; 9 Pet. 674.
Third Point. But if the presumptions of law in'favor of the
deed, from its age, &c.) were not sufficientI we have, by the tes-

576

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Power's Heirs.

timony of Johnson and Janin, prQved sufficient search for the
mortuary proceedings on Caminada's estate, to lay the foundation of the secondary proof we have offered. 1 Greerd. Ev.
ยง 84, and notes; 6 Greenl. 145; 14 Johns. 182. And we suppose the testimony of these witnesses, as to the lost record,whereon the Spanish governor (the highest judicial officer of
-the province) had several times, by his signature, recognized
the executorial capacity of Prieur, - and the abstract of the
record filed with Johnson's deposition, quite satisfactory, as
secondary evidence, that Prieur was in verity the executor of
Caminada.
And as between Caminada's heirs and the heirs of Power,
the title of the latter is now good by prescription. Power's
heirs claim title, with the original grant in possession. This
claim ,of title of unimproved lands draws after it possession
commensurate with the grant. 2 Lomax's Dig. 132; 7 SO". &
Mar. 130.
So that their possession, and that of their ancestor, is now
of forty-four years' continuance, without contest or molestation.
For all these reasons, we conclude the title derived by
Thomas Power from the estate of Caminada is good and
valid in this respect, and hence good to the extent claimed.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the petition sets forth that, before the year 1760,'
Deer Island was occupied, with the verbal consent of the provincial authorities, by Pierre Laclede and 1ierrp Songy, who on
the 11th of September; 1760, sold theirright of property thereof, and the improvements thereon, to Andre Jung; and that he
made a similfr sale to.Ignace Brontin; that said Brontin sold
the same to Francisco Caminada, who for a great length of
time thereafter occupied said island; and that in 1806 Prosper Prieur, acting as the testamentary executor of Caminada,
sold to Thofnas Power, ancestor of complainants, two islands,
known as Deer and Ship Islands, -for which two islands
Francisco Caminda received a complete grant, August 1st,
1781, from Bernardo de Galvez, then Spanish governor of the
Province of Louisiana.
The answer denies all these facts, and requires proof.
This claim -was presented to the District Court for the first
time, never having been laid before a board of commissioners,
or any step taken in regard to it, previously to its exhibition
with the petition, June 15th, 1846.
-In -the District Court it was held that the grant for both
islands was valid, and a decree was rendered against the
United States.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

577

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

No evidence was introduced to prove that such grant had
been made, other than a Spanish copy certified by a notary,
from the Spanish records in his office. - The notarial record
purports to have been made November 8th, 1781. This copy
recites that it was founded on a petition of Caminada, asking
for the grant in consideration of acts performed by him; and
was made out agreeably to an order of survey and proces verbal, with the assent and assistance of the neighbors; which
survey and proces verbal the governor approves, and on these
proceeds to grant.
Assuming that the Spanish regulations had been adopted in
Florida, then the rule governing surveyors, existing in 1781, .is.
found in the twelfth regulation of O'Reilly of 1770. It requires the acts to be done which are recited in the grant, and
directs that three copies shall be made of the plot and proces
verbal by the surveyor of the provincb, one of which shall be
deposited in the office of the scrivener.of the government, and
Cabildo; another shall be delivered to the governor, and a
third to the proprietor, "to be annexed to the titles of the grant."
Nothing of the kind here appears. The only evidence is,
that the grant was recorded on the notary's books, whether in
the proper office, to which a copy of the plan of survey and
proces verbal should have been returned, according to O'Reilly's regulation, does not appear, although we suppose it was
the proper office, where one copy should have been deposited
by the surveyor; yet no authority existed for recording the
giant there, so far as we are informed: and if there had, no
complete title was recorded, as such title had to be accompanied by the plot and proces verbal, describing the land
granted. On this unsupported hnd mutilated copy alone the
decree of the District Court is founded.
Our next inquiry is, whether Galvez, who purports to have
made the grant, had power to do so on the 1st of August, 1781.
1. By the laws of nations, in all cases of conquest, among
civilized countries, having established laws of property, the rule
is, that laws, usages, and municipal regulations in force at the'
time of the conquest remain.in force until changed by the new
sovereign. And this raises the question of fact, whether the
king of Spain had chinged the laws of England existing in
the province, by virtue of which the public donlain copld be
granted to private owners, as early as August 1st, 1781, and
in their stead adopted the laws of Spain prevailing in Louisiana; as, if the Spanish king had not done so, his officers
had no power to grant. Having nothing to govern us in ascertaining this fact but the history of Florida and of its conquest
by Spain, it becomes necessary to examine that history, in so
49
VOL. x1.

578

SUPR

ME COU'RT.

The Un ted States v, Power's Heirs.

far as the.same may be judicially noticed, and has any bearing
on the claim before us.
It was first discovered, inbabited, and governed by France as
part of Louisiana, and by that power ceded to Great Britain.
By the treaty of peace of 1763, the boundary between France
and Great Britain w-as declared to be through the Iberville,
Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain, to the sea; and the French
king ceded the river and port of Mobile, and every thing he
possessed on the left side of the River Mississippi, with the exception of the town of New Orleans and the island on which
it is situated. Deer and Ship Islands were therefore included
in this cession to, Great Britain.
The king of Spain, by another article of the same treaty,
ceded to Great Britain Florida, with the fort of St. Augustine
and the Bay of Pensacola, as well as all that Spain possessed
on the continent of North America to the east or southeast
of the River Mississippi.
In 1763 the king of Great Britain by proclamation created
the governments of East and West Florida. The g6vernment
of West Florida was bounded to the southward by the Gulf
of Mexico, including all islands within six leagues of the coast,
from Appalachicola to Lake Pontchartrain; to the westv ard by
the Mississippi, Lakes Pontchartrain and Maurepas; to the
north by the thirty-first degree of north latitude; and to the east
by the River Appalachicola. In 1764, the northern line of Florida was extended by Great Britain from the Appalachi.,ola, at
the thirty-first degree, to the mouth of the Yazoo, on the Mississippi River.,
Unzaga, having been appointed Captain-General of the Caraccas, was, by a royal schedule of the 10th of July, 1776, directed to surrender provisionally the government and intendancy of Louisiana to Bernardo de Galvez, colonel of the
regiment of Louisiana.
Spain having declared war against Great Britain on the 8th
of May, 1779, on the 8th of July following a royal schedule
was is.ued, authorizing the Spanish subjects in the Indies to
take part in the'war.
With the official account of the rupture, Galvez, who had
hitherto from July 1, 1777, exercised the functions of' governor
pro tempore, received the king's commission of governor and
intpiidant. The Commission is dated 8th May, 1779, the day
of the declaration of war, and is confined to the Province of
Louisiana.
Galvez, on receipt of this commission determined to attack
-the British possessions in his neighborhood, and accordingly
did so. On the 21st.of September, 1779, Baton Rouge, Natchez,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

579

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

and other posts in the same part of the country, capitulated
to him.
His success was rewarded by a commission of brigadiergeneral, 1780.
Early in January, 1780, he proceeded to attack Fort Charlotte, on the Mobile River, which capitulated, 14th March, 1780.
Shortly afterwards he proceeded to attack Pensacola, but his
transports having been dispersed, and some of them lost by a
storm, he went back to Havana, whence he had set out.
In 1781, he was promoted to the rank of mariscal de campo.
On the 28th of February, 1781, he 'left Havana, again to
attack Pensacola, and on the 9th of March landed his troops,
and on the 9th of May the British forces capitulated. By express terms of the capitulation, the whole province of West
Florida was surrendered to Spain; Don Arthur O'Neil, an
Irish officer in the service of Spain, was left in command at
Pensacola.
The alleged grant by Galvez to Caminada bears a subsequent date, viz. New- Orleans, 1st August, 1781; less than
three months after the capitulation of Pensacola.
In the caption of the grant, Galvez is styled Colonel of
the Royal Army, Governor and Intendant of the Province of
Louisiana.
Mazange, who certifies the copy as registered in his office,
was appointed clerk of the Cabildo, 1st January, 1779, and
held the office until January, 1783.
The preliminary articles of peace between Spain and Great
Britain were signed at Paris, 20th January, 1783. By the
third article it is stipulated that "his Britannic. Majesty will
cede to his Catholic Majesty Eat Florida, and his said Catholic Majesty will retain West Florida."
At the date of the grant, Spain held in military occupation
the country to the east of the island of Orleans, under the
capitulation of Pensacola, liable to be divested by reconquest
or surrender by a treaty of peace.
Nothing is found in these historical details indicating that
the Spanish laws had been introduced into Florida, and superseded those of England, and that civil power had. been vested
in Galvez to grant lands. As this could only be done directly
by the king, all presumptions are opposed to such supposition.
The grant purports to have been made within eighty days after
the capitulation of Pensacola; a time, at that day, hardly sufficient to have heard from Spain, after the account of the capitulation reached there, had there been no hostile British fleet intervening to intercept intercourse. But what would seem to be
conclusive of the fact is, that Galvez did not assume to grant

580

SUPREME COURT.
The United States'v. Power's Heirs.

by any new authority, but did so under his commission as
governor of Louisiana; and as this bore date before the conquest, and did not extend to Florida, no such power could be
exercised by force of that commission. And not having power
to grant merely as a military officer in command, the grant
could not be. made by him, and is void. Nor can we suppose
that Galvez made any grant of the date of August 1, 1781, as
such assumption would be a reproach on his high standing
and intelligence.
2. The grant having no force, the next question is,whether
complainants have shown any equity entitling them to a decree. As to Deer Island, it is alleged that those under whom
Caminada claimed had possessiorn by verbal permission from
government for 'many years under France and Great Britain.
But no proof of the fact was made; and if there had been
such proof, it would be of no value, as the District Court did
not possess power to act on evidence of naked possession unaccompanied by written evidence conferring, or professing to
confer, a title of some description.
As respects Ship Island, it is not pretenaed that any equitable claim to it existed antecedent to the date of the grant.
3. If we -had found this to be a legal 'and perfect title, then
the rule laid down in the .case of Reynes, at the last term,
would apply, and compel us to dismiss the petition for want
of jurisdiction, because the act of 1824 did not confer power on
the District Courts to decide on perfect grants; but as a mutilated title-paper is here set up, unaccompanied by a plan of
survey and proces verbal, which the grant refers to as a part
thereof, and as an equity standing in advance of the grant is.relied on by the petition to one of the islands, it is our duty to
act on the mutilated title, and on the assumed equity, and ascertain whether the claim as set forth by complainants can be sustained.
We cannot declare in advance, that there is no equity in the
pretensions set up by complainants, as the act of 1824 imposes
on us the duty "to hear and determine all questions arising irn
the cause relative to the title of the claimants" ; that is to say,
in all cases where the title was not perfect according to the
laws of Spain, when our government acquired Louisiana, and
by a final decree to settle and determine the question of
validity of title. And this must be done, regardless of the fact
whether the equity set up be weak or strong in our judgment.
In the case of Reynes there was a perfect and formal Spanish grant set forth by complainant, and admitted to exist as set
forth by the United States; and the only question was, whether
jurisdiction in the Spanish government was wanting over the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

581

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

country where the land lies at the time the grant bears date.
No question arose on the face of that title, but on the extraneous fact, that the land lay beyond the Spanish jurisdiction.
The caes are widely different.
4. It was earnestly insisted in argument, that this claim is
barred, because it had not been recorded as prescribed by Congress. And as this question is prominently presented in the
record, and has been fullv examined, it is deemed proper to decide it.
By the first section of the act of the 26th of March, 1804 (1
Land Laws, 112), "all that portion of country ceded by France
to the United States under the namb of Louisiana which lies
south of the Mississippi Territory, and of an east and west
line to commence on the Mississippi River at the thirty-third
degree of north latitude and to extend west to the western
boundary of the said cession, shall constitute a territory of the
United States under the name of the Territory of Orleans."
The limits to the east from the Mississippi River extended
to the Perdido, that river having been claimed by the United
States as the boundary of Louisiana on the east from the execution -of the treaty of cession.
By the act of the 2d of March, 1805 (1 Land Laws, 122),
" An Act for ascertaining and adjusting the titles and claims to
land within the Territory of Orleans and District of Louisiana,"
the Territory of Orleans was to be laid off into two districts, in
such manner as the President should direct, in each of which
he should appoint a register, who, together with two other persons to be by him also appointed, should be commissioners for
the purpose of ascertaining the rights of persons claiming under any French or Spanish grant, or under the first two sections
of the act. The first section applies to claims under any duly
registered warrant or order of survey obtained from the French
or Spanish government. The second applied to persons who,
with permission of the proper Spanish officer, and in conformity with the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish government, had made an actual settlement on a tract of land not
claimed by virtue of the preceding section.
The act further provides, that every person claiming lands
by virtue of any legal French or Spanish grant made and completed before the 1st of October, 1800, may, and every person
claiming lands by virtue of the first two sections of the act, or
by virtue of any grant or incomplete title bearing date subsequent to the 1st of October, 1800, shall, before the 1st of March,
1806, deliver a n'ntice to the register stating his claims, together with a plat, and deliver to the register for the purpose
of being recorded every gcant order of survey, deed, convey49

N2

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Power's Reirs.

ance, or other written evidence of his claim. Provided that
where lands are claimed by virtue of a complete French or
Spafiish grant, it shall not be necessary to have any other evidence recorded except the original grant or patent, and the
warrant, or order of survey, and the plat, but the other evidence
should be deposited with the register; "and if such person shall
neglect to deliver such notice in writing of his claim, together
with a plat as aforesaid, or cause to be recorded such written
evidence of the same, all his right, so far as the same is derived
from the two first sections of this act, shall become void, and
thereafter for ever be barred; nor shall any incomplete grant,
warrant, or order of -survey, deed of conveyance, or other written evidence which shall not be recorded as above directed,
ever after be considered or admitted as evidence in any court
of the United States against any grant derived from the
United States?'
This last provision does not apply to complete titles, (as
Caminada's assumed to 'be,) but to claims under incomplete
titles, and claims arising from possession and cultivation under
the first and second sections of the act.
It is not very clear what was comprehended within the limits
-fixed by the President as the eastern district. In a letter from
the Secretary of the Treasury to the register at New Orleans,
dated 30th March,-1805 (2 Land Laws, 666), it is said, "for
the present all that part of the territory which lies east of the
Mississippi," together with certain parishes on the west bank,
will belong to the eastern division.
By the third section of the act of the, 2. st of April, 1806,
supplementary to the act of 1805 (1 Land Laws, 139), the
time fixed for delivering notices and evidences of claims is extended to the 1st of January, 1807, but the rights of persons
neglecting shall be barred, and the evidences of their claims
never afterwards admitted as evidence, in the same manner
as had been provided by the fourth section of the act of
1805.
This provision, therefore, only applied to incomplete titles
and claims under possession and cultivation, and not to complete grants.
Bythe fifth section of the act of the 3d of March, 1807 (1 Land
Laws; 153), " An Act respecting claims to land in the Territories of Orleans and Louisiana," the time for delivering notices
and evidences of claims was further extended till the 1st of
July, 1808, but the rights of persons neglecting, "so far as they
are derived from, or founded on, any act of Congress," shall
ever after be barred and become void, and the evidence of their
claims never afterwards be admitted as evidence in any court

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

583

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

of law or equity whatever. This provision, also, it will be seen,
did not touch complete, grants.
By the act of the 23d of April; 1812, " An Act giving further
time for registering claims to land in the Eastern District of
Louisiana," persons (actual settlers on the land which they
claiined) were allowed until the Ist of November, 1819, to deliver notices and evidences of their claims, with the same pro.
vision as to neglect as in the act of 1807.
Complete grants were therefore still untouched.
It is proper hiere to mention, that, in the summer of 1810, a
iumber of citizens of the United States, who had removed to
the neighborhood of Bayou Sarah, took the fort of Baton
Rouge from the Spanish authorities, and, in a convention
which afterwards met, declared their independence and framed
a constitution.
Upon receiving information that the Spanish troops had
been driven from Baton Rouge, Mr. Madison, then President,
issued a proclamation on the 16th of October, 1810, setting
forth that the territory south of ,the thirty-first degree of north
latitude east of the Mississippi hs far as the Perdido, of which
possession had not yet been delivered to the United States,
had ever been considered and claimed by them as part of the
country they had acquired by the treaty of 1803. He therefore
announced that he had deemed it right and necessary that possession should be immediately taken of the said territory in the
name and behalf of the United States, and the governor of the
Territory of Orleans was directed to carry the views -of the
United States into execution. Governor Claiborne accordingly did so, and on the 7th of.December, 1810, hoisted the flag
of the United States at St. Francisville, without opposition, and
announced the event by a proclamation, and subsequently established'in this new part of the Territory of Orleans the parishes of Feliciana, East Baton Rouge, St. Helena. St. Tammany, Biloxi, and Pascagoula.
No attempt was made fo occupy the town of Mobile, nor
1.rny part of the country around it, and the Spanish garrison of
Fort Charlotte was left undisturbed; Governor Claiborne having been specially instructed not to take possession by force
of any post in which the Spaniards had a garrison, however
small it might be.
By an act of the 12th of February, 1813, the President was
authorized to occupy and hold all that tract of country called
West Florida not now in possession of the United States. 3
Stat. at LirgE, 472.
In pursuance of this act, possession was taken, by order of
the President; the governor of Louisiana having done so by.
the President's directions.

584

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. rower's Heirs.

These proceedings having placed tile United States in the
actual possession of West Florida as far as Mobile, Congress
on the 25th of April, 1812, passed " An Act for ascertaining the
titles and claims to lands in 'that part of Louisiana which lies
east of the River Mississippi and island of New Orleans." 1
Land Laws, 208. By the first section of this act it is enacted
that for the purpose of ascertaining the titles and claims to
land in that tract of country which' lies south of the Mississippi
Territory, east of the River Mississippi and island of New Orleans, and west of the River Perdido and a line drawn with the
general course thereof to the southern boundary of the Mississippi Territory, the lands within the said limits shall be laid
off into land districts bqtveen which Pearl River shall be the
boundary, and for each of which districts a commissioner shall
be appointed.
By the fourth section it is .enacted, that every person claiming lands in the said tract of country, by virtue of any grant,
order of survey, or other evidence of claim whatsoever, derived
from the French, British, or Spanish governments, shall deliver
to the commissioner a notice in writing, stating the nature and
extent of his claim, together with a plat, and shall deliver to
the commissioner, for the purpose of being recorded, every
grant, order of survey, deed, conveyance, or other written evidence of his claim, and the same shall be recorded. "Provided
that, where lands are claimed by virtue of a complete French,
British, or Spanish grant, it shall not be necessary for the
claimant to have apny other 'evidence of his claim entered at
large on the retord, except the original grant or patent, together
with the order of survey and the plat; all the other conveyances
or deeds may be abbreviated in the entry, but the chain of title
and the date of every transfer shall appear on the record. And,
if such person shall neglect to deliver such notice in writing of
his claim, together with the plat (in case the lands claimed
shall have been surveyed), as aforesaid, or cause to be recorded
such written evidence of the same within- the time and times
as aforesaid, his claim Shall never after be recognized or confirmed by the United States; nor shall any grant, order of survey, deed, conveyance, or other written evidence, which shall
not be recorded as above directed, ever after .be considered or
admitted as evidence in any court of the United States against
any grant which may hereafter be derived from the United
States."
The plain meaning of this provision is, that no Spanish
claim not recorded shall be evidence in cases where the same
land has been gfanted by the United States, and a contest
arises between the two grants.

DECEMBER TE.RM, 1850.

585

The United States v. Power's Heirs.

This act, it is apprehended, is th'e first provision under which,
the grant to Caminada could have been brought forward; as
at the time of its passage the United States had come into actual possession of the country where the islands are situated.
By the act of 18th April, 1814, supplementary to the act bf
1812, the time for delivering notices and evidences of claim was
extended to the 1st of September, 1814. 1 Land Laws, 247.
The act of 3d March, 1819, " An Act for adjusting the
claims to land and establishing land-offices in the districts east
of the island of New Orleans," confirms claims reported under
the act of 1812, and confers on the registers and receivers of
Jackson Court-House and St. Helena Court-Hopse the same
powers as the commissioners east and west of Pearl River had.
By the sixth section it is declared, that every person claiming
land, whose claims had not before been filed,-" shall be allowed
until the 1st of July, 1820, to deliver n6tices in writing and the
evidences of their claims to the register 6f the land-office at
Jackson Court-House and at St. Helena Court-House, and the
notices and evidences so delivered within the time limited by
this act shall be recorded in the same manner as if the same
had been delivered before the commissiqners closed their said
registers?7'
By the act of 24th May, 1828, "An Act supplementary to
the several acts providing for the adjustment of land claims
in the State of Mississippi," it is provided, that claimants of
lands within that part of the limits of the laud district of Jackson Court-Uouse below the thirty-first degree of north latitude,
whose claims had been presented to the commissioners or
to the register or receiver under the act of 3d March, 1819,
which had not been reported to Congress, or had not been-presented to the said commissioners or register and receiver, were
allowed to the 1st of January, 1829, to present their titles and
olaims to the register and receiver at Jackson Court-House,
whose powers and duties shall be, in relation to the same, governed by the provisions of thq acts before recited, and of the act
of 8th May, 1822.
"
Although the act of 1812 is not directly- cited in the act of
1828, yet it was meant to bd included, as it was under that act
that the first commissioners were appointed. The register and
receiver were appointed under the act of 1819. Neither the
act of 1812, nor any succeeding actbarred a claim to land not
surveyed and sold by the United States; and Ship and Deer
Islands remaining unsold,.the claim before us stands unaffected by the legislation of Congress. That such was the obvious understanding of Congress when the act'of 1824 was
passed, under which we are exercising jurisdiction, appears by

586

SUPREME COURT.
Larman v. Tisdale's Heirs.

the eleventh section of that act. It protects purchasers under
the United States, but not the government itself, as to any
lands not surveyed and sold.
But aside from this consideration, for the reasons previously
stated, we adjudge the claim to be invalid, and order the petition to be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition
of the claimants

ISAAC LAn~uAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES TISDALE'S HEIRS.

The fifty-fourth rule of this court, requiring an appearance to be entered on or before
the second dav of the term next succeeding that at which the ease is docketed,
does not include an adjourned term; but applies only to regular terms.

Mn. STANTON, of counsel for the defendants in error, moved
the court, on the 28th of February, 1851, to dismiss this case,
under the fifty-fourth rule of the court, which rule is repeated
amongst the preliminary matter in 8 Howard, and -is as follows :
"No. 54.
"Ordered, that where an appearance is not entered on the
record for either the plaintiff or defendant on or before the second day of the term next succeeding that at which the case is
docketed, it shall be dismissed at the costs of the plaintiff2'
Whereupon this court, not being nowz here sufficiently advised of and concerning what order to render in the premises,
took time to consider.
On the 4th of March, 1851, Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The fifty-fourth rule applies to cases docketed at the regular
term; and not to an adjourned term. For it may happen that
an adjourned term may be held immediately preceding the
regular session.

