SUPREME

COURT.

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

place our decision upon it, as the ground already taken, and
stated more at large, affords a full and conclusive answer to
the claim set up by the plaintiff.
The decree of the court below is affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Covrt
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JULIA P. HOTCHKISS, EXECUTRIX OF JOi N G. HOTCHEKISS, DECEASED,
JOHN A. DAVENPORT, AND JOHN W. QUINCY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. MILES GREENWOOD AND THoMiAs WOOD, PARTNERS IN TRADE
UNDER THE NArie OF M. GREENWOOD & CO.
A patent granted for a "new and useful improvement in making door and other
knobs, of all kinds of clay used in pottery, and of porcelain," by having the
"cavity in which the screw or shank is inserted by which they are fastened largest
at the bottom of its depth, in form of a dovetail, and a screw formed therein by
pouring in metal in a fused state," was invalid.
The invention claimed in the schedule was manufacturing knobs as above described,
of potter's clay, or any kind of clay used in pottery, and shaped and finished by
moulding, turning, burning, and glazing; and also of porcelain.
The knob was not new, nor the metallic'shank and spindle, nor the dovetail form
of the cavity in the knob, nor the means by which the metallic shank was securely
fastened therein. Knobs had also been used made of clay.
The only thing new was the substitution of a knob made out of clay in that peculiar
form for a knob of metal or wood. This might -have been a better or cheaper
article, but is not the subject of a patent.
The test was, that, if no more ingenuity and skill was necessary to construct the new
knob than was possessed by an ordinary mechanic acquainted with the business,
the patent was void; and this was a proper question for the jury.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.
It was a question involving the validity of a patent right,
under the following circumstances.
The patent and specification were as follows:"The United States of America, to all to whom these letters
patent shall come.
"Whereas John G. Hotchkiss, New Haven, Conn., John A
Davenport, and John W. Quincy, New York, have alleged that
they have invented a new and useful improvement in making
door and other knobs, of all kinds of clay used in pottery, and

DECEMBER TERM. 1850.

20

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et.aL

of porcelain, which they state has not been known or used before their application; have made oath that they are citizens of
the United States, that they do verily believe that they- are the
original and first inventors or discoverers of the said improvement, and that the same hath not4 to the best of their knowledge and belief, been previously known or used; have. paid
into the treasury of the United States the sum of thirty dollars,
and presented a petition to the Commissioner of Patents signifying a desire of obtaining an exclusive property in the said
improvement, and praying that a patent may be granted for
that purpose: These are therefore to grant, acebding to law,
to the said John G. Hotchkiss, John A. Davenport, and John
W. Quincy, their heirs, administrators, or assigns,'for the term
of fourteen yearsfrom the 29th'day of July, 1841, the full and
exclusive right and liberty of making, constructing, using, and
vending to others to be used, the said improvement, a description whereof is given in the words of the said Hotchkiss,
Davenport) and Quincy, in the schedule hereunto annexed, and
is made a part of these presents.
"In testimony, whereof, I have caused these letters to be
made patent, and the seal of the Patent-Offic/e has been hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at the city of Washing,
ton, this 29th day of July, A. D. 1841, and of the independence
of the United States of America the sixty-sixth..
"'DANIEL WEBSTER,

Secretary of .6t.ate.
"Countersigned and sealed with the seal of the Patent-Office.
" HENRY L. ELLSWORTH,

Commissioner of Patents."
ccThe schedule referred to in These- letters patept, and makihg

a part of the same. - To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that we,John G. Hotchkiss, of the city and
county of New Haven, and State of Connecticut, and John A.
Davenport and John W. Quincy, both of the city, county, anql.
State of New York, have invented an improved method of
making knobs for locks, doors, cabinet furniture, and for 61l other,
purposes for which wood and metal,'or other material knobs,
are used. This improvement consists in making said knobs of
potter's 'clay, such as is used in any species of Pottery; also of,
porcelain; the operation is the same as in pottery, by moulding, turning, and burning and glazing; "they may be plain "in
surface and color, or ornamented to any degree in both; the
modes of fitting them for their application to doors, locks,
furniture, and other uses, will be as vari6us as the uses to

250

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et a].

which they may be applied, but chiefly predicated on one
principle, that of having the cavity in which the screw or shank
is inserted, by which they are fastened, largest at the bottom of
its depth, in form of a dovetail, and a screw formed therein by
pouring in metal in a fused state. In the annexed drawing,
A represents a knob with a large screw inserted, for drawers
and similar purposes; B represents a knob with a shank to
pass through and receive a nut; C, the head of the knob calculated to recive a metallic neck ; D, a knob with a shank calculated to receive a nut on the outside or front. What we claim
as our invention, and desire to, secure by letters patent, is the
manufacturing of knobs, as stated in the foregoing specifications, of potter's clay, or any kind of clay used in pottery, and
shaped and finished by moulding, turning, burning, and glazing; and also of porcelain.
JOHN G. HOTCHKISS,
J. A.

DAVENPORT,

JOHN W.

"Witnesses:

QUINCY.

ALPS. SHERMAN,
JAMES MONTG OMERY2'

In October, 1845, the plaintiffs in error brought an action in
the Circuit Court of the United States for Ohio, against the
defendants, for a violation of the patent right.
The defendants pleaded not guilty, and gave the following
notice:"The plaintiffs will please take notice, that on the trial of the
above cause the defendants will give in evidence to the jury,
that the said John G. Hotchkiss, John A. Davenport, and John
W. Quincy were not the original and first inventors and discoverers of making or manufacturing knobs of potter's clay or
of porcelain. They will also prove that the making of knobs
from potter's clay, and also from porcelain and other cliys
used by potters, was known and practised, and such knobs were
made, used, and sold, in the'cities of New York, Albany, Troy,
and Brooklyn, in the State of New York; also in Jersey City,
in the State of New Jersey; also in the ci.ty of Philadelphia,
State of Pennsyl~ania; by John Mayer, Thomas Frere, William Lundy, Jr., and Charles W. Vernerck, residing in the city
of New York; also by John Harrison, residing in Jersey City,
in the State of New Jersey; and by Littlefield, Hattrick, &
Shannon, of Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, long
before the 29th day of July, in the year 1841, the date of the
patent in the declaration mentioned. They will also prove
that similbr knobs were manufactured of potter's clay, and also
of porcelain, and were also used and sold, long prior to the said
29th day of July, 1841, in the town of Burslem, in Stafford-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

251

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

shire, England; also in the town of Sandyford, near Tunstall;
also in the town of Hanley, Staffordshire, England; also at
Woodenbose village, in the county of Derbyshire, England.
And the said defendants will prove the manufacture and use
of said knobs, so made of clay and porcelain, by Godfrey
Webster and John Webster, who now reside in East Liverpool,
Columbiana County, Ohio; and also by Enoch Bulloch," who
now resides in Wellsville, in the same county; also by Daniel
Bennett, who now [resides] in the city of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; all of whom formerly resided in Staffordshire, England.
The defendants will also prove that the said patentees, John
G. Hotchkiss, John A. Davenport, and John W. Quincy, at the
time of making application for the said patent, well knew that
the said knobs so patented had been previously made and sold.
in a foreign country, to wit, in the kingdom of Great Britain,
and also in Germany, and did not believe themselves to be the
'first inventors or discoverers of manufacturing knobs from potter's clay or porcelain. All of which will be insisted upon in
bar of the action.
CHAS. Fox,
,Attorneyfor the Defendants2
And in July, 1848, the following additional notice: "The plaintiffs in this cause will please take notice, that on
the trial of the cause the defendants will give in evidence to
the jury that the said John G. Hotchkiss, John A. Davenport,
and John W. Quincy were not the oiginal and first inventors
and discoverers of making or manufacturing knobs of potter's
clay, or of porcelain; they will also prove that knobs made of
potter's clay, and of porcelain and other clays, had been previously publicly used and sold in tlfe cities of New York, Albany, Troy, and Brooklyn, in the State of New York; also in
Jersey city, in the State of New Jersey; also in New Haven
ard Middletowin, in the State of Connecticut, long before and
at the date of the patent under which the plaintiffs claim; the
defendants will likewise prove, on said trial, that John Mayer,
residing in Staten Island; Hoope & Lee, residing in the city
of Brooklyn, in the State of New York; Edward H. Higgins,
John Penfield, John Duntze, residing in Hew Haven, in the
State of Connecticut; Matthew Fifo, William Fifo, Jan& Fifo,
John C. Smith, and certain persons doing business under the
name of Smith, Fifo, & Co., residing in the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, as early as the year .831.,and
from that time on, and until; and at the time'of obtaining the
pateixt under which the plaintiff claim, and befoie the alleged
discovery and invention set forth -in said patent, madenmanufactured, and publicly sold and used, knobs made efpotter's

252

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

clay, and of other clays, and of porcelain, in the several cities
and places named."
The following bill of exceptions was taken during the trial:"The plaintiffs offered in evidence the patent specifications
and drawings, and- other evidence, tending to prove the originality, novelty, and usefulness of the inventions as described in
said specification; and other evidence, tending to show the violation of said patent by the defendant, and rested. Whereupon the defendants offered evidence tending to show that the
said alleged invention was not originally invented by any one of
the said patentees; and that if said invention was original with
any of the said patenties, it was not the joint invention of all
of said patentees; and other evidence, tending to shQw that the
mode of fastening the shank or collet to the knob, adopted by
the plaintiffs, and in said specification described, had been
known and used in Middletown, Connecticut, prior to the alleged inventions of the plaintiffs, as a mode of fastening
shanks or collets to metallic knobs. 'And the evidence being
closed, the counsel for the plaintiffs insisted in the argument,
that, although the knob, in the form in which it is patented,
may have been known and used in the United States prior to
their invention and patent; and although the shank and spindle, by which it is attached, may have been known akid used
in the United States prior to said invention and patent, yet if
such shank and spindle had never before been attached to a
knob made of potter's clay or porcelain, and if it required skill
and thought and invention to attach the said knob of clay to
the metal shank and spindle, so that the same would unite
firmly, and make a solid and substantial article of manufacture, and if the said knob of clay or porcelain so attached
were an article better and cheaper than the knob theretofore
manufactured of metal or other materials, that the patent was
valid, and asked the court so to instruct the jury, which the
court refused to do; but, on the contrary thereof, instructed
the jury, that, if knobs of the same form, and for the same purposes with that described by the plaintiffs in their specifications, made of metal or other material, had been known and
'used in the United Stat6s prior to the alleged invention and
patent of the plaintiffs, and if the "spindle and shank, in the
form used by the plaintiffs, had before that .tifine been publicly
known and used in the United States, aud'.had been theretofore attached to metallic k.obs by means of 'the dovetail and
the infusion* of melted metal, as the same is directed in the
specification of the plaintiffs to be attached to the knob of
potter's clay or porceaih, so that if the knob of clay-.or porce-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

253

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

lain is the mere substitution of one material for another, and
the spindle and shank-be such as were theretofore in common
use, and the mode of connecting them to the knob by dovetail
be the same that was theretofore in use in the United States,
the material being in common use, and no other ingenuity or
skill being rnecegsary to construct the knob than that of an ordinary mechanic acquainted with the business, the patent is
void, and the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover. The counsel for the defendants asked the court to instruct the jury, that,
if they should be satisfied that any one of the patentees was
the original inventor of the article in question, and that the
same was new and useful, yet if they should be satisfied from
the evidence that all the patentees did not participate in the
invention, the patent is void, and the plaintiffs cannot recover.
The court gave the above, modified by the remark, that the
patent was prinid facie evidence that the invention was joint,
though the fact might be disproved on the trial; and the court
remarked, there was no evidence except that of a slight presumption against the joint invention as proved by the patent;
to which refusal of the court to instruct the jury as asked by
the counsel for the plaintiffs, and to the instructions given, the
plaintiffs, by their counsel, except, and ray the court to sign
this their bill of exceptions.
J
"JOHN
MVcLEAN. [SE.AL.]"
Upon this exception, the case came up to this dourt, and
was argued by 1ir. Ewin,, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr.
Chase, for the defendants in error.
3r. Zwing, for the convenience of reference, divided the nstructions of the court into paragraphs, as follows.
The court instructed the jury,
1. That if knobs of the same form and for the same purposes with that described by the 'plaintiffs in their specifications, made of metal or other material, had been known or
used in the United States prior to the alleged invention and
patent of the plaintiffs,:
2. And it'
the spindle and shank, in the form used by the
plaintiffs, had bekbre that time been publicly known in the
nited States, and had theretofore been attached to metallic
knobs by means of the dovetail and infusions of melted metal,
as the same is directed, ihthe specifications oT the plaintiffs, to
be attached to the knob of potter's clay or porcelain :
3. So that, if the knob of potter's clay or porcelain is the mere
substitution of one material for another, and the spindle and
shank be such as were theretofore in use in the United States:
4. The material being in common use, and no other inVOL. xI.
22

SUPREME COURT.
Hotc-hkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

genuity or skill being necessary to construct the knob than
that of an ordinary mechanic acquainted with the business:
5. The patent is void, and the plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover.
It will be seen that tne court, in the paragraph of the instructions which I have numbered 4, take upon themselves to determine in the negative the question whether "it required skill
and thought and invention to attach the knob of clay to the
metal shauk and spindle, so that they would unite firmly, and
make a solid, substantial article of manufacture" instead of
submitting it to the jury. It was a question of fact, not arising
upon the construction of a written or printed paper, but depending upon avidence, and ought to have been submitted to
the jury if material in the case.
It will also be seen, that the court rejected entirely one
clause of the instructions asked; namely, "whether the knob
of clay or porcelain thus attached to the metallic shank and
spindle were an article better and cheaper than the knob
theretofore manufactured of metal or other materials," and
"gave.nothing as a substitute for it, leaving the jury td flnderstand that it was immaterial whether it were- a: better and
cheaper article or not.
The court seem to have been of opinion, first, that it could
not, in the nature of things, require skill and thought and invention so to unite the ipetal and clay as to make them,
together, a firm and substantial article of manufacture; or,
second, that the new manufacture produced by the substitution of one material fcr another in part of the article, "afnd ihe
uniting of the two materials, though of dissimilar tualities, and
never before united for that purpose, was not patentable, even
though it required skill and tirought ,and invention to unite
them; and though the new manufacture thus produced wyere
cheaper and better than any like article ever before known.
"1st. The first position, I respectfully contend, the court had
no right to assume. The counsel had ,the same right to ap.
question of fact, that
peal from the court to the jury, on
they had to appeal from that tribunal to th.is on a question of
law. The right to refer this question to the jury was distinctly
insisted- upon by counsel, and as distinctly denied by the'-ourt.
For this, I contend, the judgment ought to be reversed.
But if the court had the right to- settle this question of iact,
-as they would have to determine the effect of a written instrument, I think I am able to Ishow that they erred in their opinion on the question.
Knobs had been in. use many hundred years; potter's ware
and porcelain.,many'tliotsand; but no on" 'ever before sue-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

255

Hotchkiss et aL v. Greenwood et al.

ceeded in uniting the clay and the iron so as to make of the
twvo a substantial and useful article. There are many difficulties in uniting them, which can be best explained by a careful examination of the new manufacture itself; and if it were
proper for the court below to' pronounce upon the question
connected with it absolutely, on inspection, as a legal conclusion drawn from the article itsel it is equally so for the court
here to inspect the article, and determine on itispection whether
the decision below was right. Curtis on Patents, §§ 10, 14
(note 2), 15, 16; Webster on Patents, 29, 30.
2d. But the second alternative position is the one on which
I understood the court to rest, namely, that the new manufacture produced by the substitution of one material for another,
as in this case the substitution of clay or porcelain iithe place
of metal for the knob, using metal as theretofore for the collet
and spindle, was not patentable, though the materials are dissimilar, and were never before united for that or a like purpose.; and though it required skill ahd thought 'and invention to
unite them, and though the new" manufacture thus produced
was cheaper and better than any like article ever before known.
This position cannot be maintained either by reason or authority'. The clay or porcelain knob, connected with the metallic shank is a new and useful manufacture, according to the
letter as well as the spirit and intent of our statute.
1st. " That it is ',a manufacture' can admit of no doubt; itr
is a vendible article, produced by the art and hand of man.,
Per C. J. Tindall, in Cornish v. Keene, Webs. on Pat. .517;
Boulton v. Bull, 2 L Black. 492, 495, and Ibid. 463, :464,
note (a); and Rex v. Wheeler, 2 Barn. & Aid. 349, 350.
2d. As the court refused to submit to the jury the question
whether the article produced by the substitution of clay or
porcelain for metal, &c., in the manufacture of knobs, was
better and cheaper than the old article, the charge must rest
on the admission that it was better and cheaper. The manufacture which is the result of that combination is, therefore,
by concession, "a useful manufacture."
And it is clear that it is in fact a very useful manufacture.,
The potter's ware and porcelain knobs are almost everywhere
taking the place of the metal knob.
3d. It is also a new manufacture.
" The mere substitution of one metal for another in a particular manufacture might be the subject of a patent, if the
new article were better, more useful, or cheaper than the old."
Curtis on Patents, § 8, note 3.
"No one can say that a silver and an earthen teapot are
the same manufacture." Webster on Patents, p. 25, note.

SUPREME COURT.
Hotohkiss at aL v. Greenwood et al.

As little can, any one say that a metal and an earthen knob
are the same manufacture.
"If there-be any thing material and new which is an improvement of the trade, that will be sufficient to support a patent." (Per Buller, J. in Rex v.Arkwright, Webster's Patent
-Cases, 71. See Godson on Patents, 63, 70, 124, 126; also
Hindemarch on Patents, 124, 126. A list of cases sustaining
this-point are collected in Curtis on Patents, §§ 9, 10.) Lord
Dudley's patent being the substitution of pitcoal for charcoal
in the manufacture of iron (Webster's Patent Cases, 14);
Neilson's patent, the hot blast instead of the cold (lb. 152) ;
Crane's patent, the substitution of anthracite for soft coal in
connection with the hot blast (lb. 273). Durome's patent, the
application of charcoal, long used in filtering, to the filtering
of sugar (lb. 152.) In Ball's case, the use of the flame of gas
instead of the flame of oil to singe off the superfluous fibres
of lace (Ib. 99, and note, in which many other similar cases are
referred to).
Our invention is a combination of dissimilar materials (not
a composition of matter) never before united, which produces
a new manufacture. Tindall, C. 3., in Crane i. Price and
others, in speaking of the hot-air blast combined with anthracite coal in the production of iron, says: c"We are of opinion, that, if the result produced by such
combination is either a new article or a cheaper article to the
public than that produced by the old method, such combination is an invention or manufacture intended by the statute,
and may well become the subject of a patent." " And it falls
within the doctrine of-Lord Eldon, that there may be a valid
patent for a new combination of materials previously in use
for the same purpose, or even for a new method of applying
such materials." Webster's Patent Cases, 409.
Mir. Curtis, after a review of the cases, says, § 14: "It ap.
pears, then, according to the English authorities, that the
amouht of the invention may be estimdted from the result, although not capable of being directly estimated on a view of
the invention itself." And in § 15: " The utility of the change
is the testto be. applied for the purpose. As there cannot be
a decidedly new result without some degree of invention to
effect that result, where a real utility is seen to exist, a suffiAnd Mr. Webster, in
ciency.of invention may be presumed.'
his treatise on the subject-matter, says, that, "whenever the
change and its consequences, taken together and viewed as a
sum, are considerable, there must be a sufficienc, of invention
to support a patent" (pp. 29, 30).
-%Ourcourts have applied the same tests as the courts in England. Curtis on Patents, §18.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

257

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

As in the case of Kneass v. The Schuylkill Bank, 4 Wash.'
9-11, where steel plates were used instead of copper plates
in printing bank-notes. The question left to the jury was,
whether the substitute of steel for copper plates was an improvement. See Curtis on Patents, § 24 and note 1, citing
Ryan v. Godwin, 3 Pumner, 514, 518.
In the case at bar, the question of skill and invention, and
the question of utility, which are the universally aclnowledged
test questions in this class of cases, were withheld from the
jury; the question of skill and invention 8etermined by the
court; the question of utility thrown out of the case.
' We have, then, by all the rules heretofore recognized in this
class of cases, "a new and useful manufacture."
The letter of the statute embraces it; so, clearly, does the
spirit and intent of the act. It Is indeed an invention of much
more than common importance .nd merit It is the combination of two materials, metal and earth, never .before united in
this manner, so as to give to the new manufacture the strength
of iron with the durability and beauty of the clay or porcelain ;
its exemption from the corrosive action of acids and other
chemical agents, and its consequent freedom from tarnish.
There axe some cases of the application of old inventions to
obvious new uses for which courts have refused to sustain a
patent. They are referred to by Lord Abinger in Lost v. Hagen, Webster's Patent Cases, 208; Curtis, § 7, note 2. Or the
case of a double use, where no new manufacture or a cheapening of the old is the result. Ibid., note 3.
In the case of Rex v. Fusell, the dampening of cloth by
steam instead of hot water would have been held patentable
had it been useful. It was frivolous. Crane v. Price, Webster's Patent Cases, 409.
And it. is said by Mr. Webster, in a note to Crane v. Price
and others, "that no case is reported or mentioned in any of
the books in which a patent has failed simply on the ground
of the invention not being the subject-matter of letters patent.
Some other ground, as want of novelty or defective specification, having been the real cause of failure."
The counsel for the defendants in error made the following
points.
The court-now is c6alled upon to decide whether this patent,
or whether any patent, can be sustained merely for applying a
common, well-known material to a use to which it had not before been applied, without any new mode of using the material,
or any new mode of manufacturing the article sought to be
covered by the patent.
22*

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et a]. v. Greenwood et al.

And here we will first ask the court for a construction of
this patent. Does the patent and specification- confine its
claim to a mere right to use clay or porcelain for the purpose
of making or manufacturing knobs, or does it claim to cover
the manufacturing knobs of clay and porcelain in the manner
or mode set forth in the specificition ?
The language of the claim, in the closing part of the specification, is as follows: "What we claim as our invention, and desire to secure by letters patent, is the manufacturing of knobs, as stated in the foregoing specification, of potter's clay, or any kind of clay used
in pottery, and shaped and finished by moulding, turning, burnpreviously stated
ing, and glazing," &c. The patenteesofhad
fitting them for their
in their specification that "the modes
application to doors, locks, and furniture, and other jjses, will.
be as various as the uses to which they may be appjed~d but
chiefly predicated on one principle, that of having the cavity in
which the screw or shank is inserted, by which they are fastened, largest at the bottom of its depth, in form of a dovetail,
and a screw formed therein by pouring in metal in a fused state."
The concluding clause of the specification then claims by
the patent to cover the manufacture of knobs made of clay in
the manner described in the specification, qnd the great principle of the manner of forming the knob is by a cavity which,
with hot metal poured in, will make a dovetail-shaped fastening or holding of the knob on to the shaft.
We think it clear the claim is for manufacturing knobs of
clay in the paiticular manner specified, so that, when manufactured; they shall be held to the shank by force of the dovetail.
We think it clear that, had not the defendants established
the fact on the trial, that knobs for door-handles and-for locks
had been previously patented to a person in Middletown, which
were made and fastened in the same identical way as the ones
described in the plaintiffs' specification, the plaintiffs would
have claimed the right to recover against us for making and
fastening the knobs in that particular way. We suppose the
.plaintiffs, in the absence of such testimony, would have claimed
that their specification covered the form and manner of fastening tht knobs to the handle, as well as the material out of
which the knob was made. Indeed, such was their claim
made at the trial of the cause.
It is now well settled, that, in order fairly to construe a patent, the whole specification must be examined; and if we can
gather from the whole paper the meaning of the inventor,
and the extent of his claim, the object of the statute is attained. 2 Phillips on Pat. 169, 170; 3 Sumner, 520; Curtis

on Pat. §§ 123, 130, 14,; 1 Mason, 477.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

259

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.'

This case is very similar to the case of Barrett-et al. v. Hall,
1 Mason, 477, where Judge Story held, that, taking the whole
specification, it was manifest the patentee claimed as his invention a mode of dyeing and finishing silks,-and not a mode
of dyeing alone; and the patent being too broad, the whole not
being his invention, the patent was void.
It is also well settled, that whatever appears to be covered
by the claim of the patentee as his own invention must be
taken as part of the claim; for courts of law are not at liberty
to reject any part of the claim; and therefore, if it turns out
that any thing claimed is not new, the patent is void, however
small or unimportant such asserted invention may be. Curtis on Pat. § 131; 2 Story, 412.
We claim, therefore, that this is in fact a claim for making
knobs of clay, combined with the particular' manner of fastening the same to the shank by a dovetail fastening, and is in
truth a claim for a combination.
If we are correct in this view of the case, then it is clear that
the patent is void, as the jury-have found--that the claim of
fastening knobs to handles by dovetail fastenings was not new,
but was known and used before the plaintiffs' patent. 'inans
v. Boston and Providence Railroad Co., 2 Story, 413; Hill v.
Thompson, Webster's Patent Cases, 226,'228.
But suppose that the claim iti the patent was the mere right
to make knobs of clay or porcelain, withofit regard to any particular mode of making or fastening the knobs into the shaft;
the question arises, Could such a patent be sustained?
The plaintiffs' claim that they have the right to the exclusive use of clay for fourteen years to come, in making knobs
for door.4, locks, and drawers, by making such a claim known
at the Patent-Office.' They don't even claim to be the discoverers of clay; but they claim the exclusive right to appropriate and use clay in making knobs.
It is a strange claim, to say the least of it. According to
the principle of the claim, one man may claim a patent for
making a stove of sheet-iron; another may claim a patent for
making stoves of cast-iron; another may claim a patent for
making stoves of copper; and each may claim, nqt the right to
make a stove of a particular form and shape only, or by any
peculiar process of making, but the exclusive right to make all
sorts and shapes of stoves out of the particular material named.
So another man claims the exclusive right of using ice *to
cool water; another claims the exclusive right to use ice for
cooling wine; another, to use the same article to cool brandy;
and a physician claims the exclusive right to use the article of
ice to cool a fevered patient's head.

MSUPRE]ME

COURT.

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenw6od ot aL

Again, one man has been long accustomed to make windowsashes of pine wood; another comes and says he can make
window-sashes of cast-iron, and claims the exclusive right to
make all the cast-irdn sashes the country may want for the
uext fourteen years.
Another has discovered that he can make the whole of a
house out of cast-iron; he therefore claims the exclusive right
to make all the cast-iron houses that are wanted for fourteen
years to come.
Another says he has discovered that he can build splendid
railroad-cars for the conveyance of passengers out of sheet
copper or tin; he therefore obtains a patent for the exclusive
use of copper and tin in making such carriages.
Another discovers that teakettles have been made of castiron for years past, but tea and coffee pots have not as yet been
made of that material, and he immediately obtains a patent
for the exclusive right to make cast-iron tea and coffee pots for
fourteen years.
We know that cast-iron has been extensively used for making machinery of different shapes and forms; for making
columns, fences, floors, and indeed every thing whose shape
can be impressed upon sand; and can it be pretended that any
one at this day can claim the right to make some new thing
out of cast-iron, and thereby exclude all other persons from
making the same article out of the same material?
To allow such a claim, it appears to us, would be violating
the spirit of the act of Congress. The object of the act of
Congress is to encourage men to devote their time and talent
in making new and useful discoveries in the arts, manufactures,
and compositions of matter. Why does the act provide so
carefully for new compositions of matter, if an individual could
obtain a patent for a use of an element of matter without any
composition at all?
The patentee in this case is endeavoring to add a new clause
to the patent law. He is claiming the right-to apply a common
element of nature to a new purpose, without the aid of any
new mode or process of working it, and without combining it
with any other portions of matter so as to make it a composition.
The only causes authorizing the issuing of a patent are declared and set forth in the sixth section of the act of 1836.
That section enacts, "that any person or persons, having discovered or invented any new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvements on any art, machine, manufacture, or composition
of matter, not before known or used, &c., may make applica-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

261

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

To satisfy the terms of the statute, there must be some new
art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter discovered,
or there can be no patent.
It is well settled, that a patent cannot be granted for a new
use of the thing, or, as it is commonly stated, a double use.
The application of an old machine to some new purpose is
not the foundation of a patent; but an improvement of an old
machine, in order to apply it to the same purposes more advantageously, is the subject of a patent. But in this latter case, it
is the particular improvement made in the machine which constitutes the basis of the patent, not the result.
If in the present case the patentees had invented an improvement in the mode of fastening the knobs to the handles,
or if they had invented a new mode of making knobs out of
clay or other materials, their patent might have been sustained;
but we maintain they cannot obtain a patent for a new use, or
double use, of the article of clay, any more than they could sustain a patent for a new use of an cld machine.
It has been decided, that, where a certain description of
wheels had been used on other than railway-carriages, a patent
could not be sustained for the use of such wheels on railwaycarriages. Curtis, note to § 87. The court distinguished between applying a new contrivance to an old object, and applying an old contrivance to a new object. Losh v. Hague, Webster's Patent Cases, 207. The learned judge stated that a
patent cannot be had for applying a well-known thing, which
might be applied to fifty thousand different purposes, to an
operation which is exactly analogous to what was done before.
2 Story, 412.
So it has been held that a patent for curling palm-leaf for
mattresses could not be sustained, where the same process had
been long in use for curling hair. Howe v. Abbott, 2 Story,
190, 193.
In this latter case the judge remarked that it was the mere application of an old process and old machinery to a new use. The
same as if a coffee-mill were employed to grind corn, or a flaxmachine were employed to spin cotton., There must be some
new mode or process to produce the result
• If new effects are produced by an old machine in its upaltered
state, no patent can be supported for it, as'such a patent would
be for an effect only. 1 Gallison, 478, 481.
So in the new uie of medicines or compositions, as is said
in Boulton v. Hall, 2 H. BI. 487. Suppose the world were
better informed than it is how to prepare Dr. Jayne's feverpowder, and an ingenious physician should find out that it
was a specific cure for a consumption, if given in particular

262

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et aL

quantities; could he have a patent for the sole use of Jayne's
powders in consumption, or to-be given in particular quantities?
I think it must be conceded that such a patent would be void,
and yet the use of the medicine would be new, and the effect
of it as materially different from what is now known, as life is
from death.
So the same judge says the use of arsenic for curing agues
could not be patented, because the medicine would not be new,
and a new use of itis not the subject of a patent.
We claim, therefore, that this patent cannot be sustained as
a patent for the exclusive privilege of using clay for the manufacture of knobs, instead of brass, silver, or metallic compositions. That such a claim does not rise to the dignity of an invention or discovery, but is a mere substitution of one material
in place of another, for making the same common article.
There is no change proposed in the manner of working the
clay, no improvement in machinery used to produce the result,
and no new result is obtained; the same identical knobs are
produced and applied in the same way; the only change is in
the material used, and we suppose that a mere change of one
material for another cannot be the subject of a patent.
The case then comes within the principle laid down in
Phillips on Patents, p. 113: " The use of the ordinary known
materials cannot be monopolized by patent. We must understand this doctrine to be limited to known materials, and to
such as naturally exist, whether known or not; for the discovery of a new elementary substance or material, by analysis
or otherwise, does not give a right of a monopoly of it." 2 H.
BI. 487.
On the argument of this latter case the court put the ques'tion to counsel, "whether, if a man by science were to devise
the means of making a double use of a thing known before, he
could have, a pa.teit for that? It was rightly and candidly admitted that he could not." (p. 486.)
Arid, Justice Eyre says of Hartley's patent: "He did not invent those means'; the invention wholly consisted in the new
manner of using, or, I would rather say, of disposing a thing in
common use, and which thing every man might make at his
pleasure; and which, therefore, I repeat, could not, in my jud.ment, be the subject of the patent."
We claim that there can be no patent in the United States
founded upon the material used, unless where a new combination of materials is made use of, and then it comes under that
clause of the -patent law which authorizes a patent for any
new composition of matter.
Without a new compoaition of matter, or a new mixture of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

263

Hotchkiss et aL v. Greenwood et aL

the ingredients used, or a new proportion of ingredients used,
there can be no patent for the material used in the production
of tLe -article. To hold otherwise would be to repeal this
clause of the statute, or rather to add a new clause to it. The
act has declared a man may obtain a patent for discovering.a
new composition, or mixing of substances, so as to produce a
new substance; but it has not declared that any one can obtain
a patent for the exclusive use of an element of matter, where
no combination or mixture of different portions of matter is set
forth.
Clay, and its suitability for being manufactured into articles
of different shapes, and to be applied to different purposes, is
well known. The mode of moistening and using it, and making it intoknobs, teapots, plates. bowls, cups and saucers, &c.,
and of glazing, staining, and baking it, is also well known,
and no change is proposed in these operations. The use of
brass, iron, silver, and glass, for the manufacture of knobs for,
doors and drawers, is also well known. The particular mode
of fastening claimed by the plaintiffs is shown not to be new;
and, as before remarked, all that can be now claimed in this
record is, the exclusive right to use clay instead of metal in
making these knobs.
We know of no case in which such a claim has been sustained. We have shown, from the authorities, that the new
use of an old machine to produce a new effect is iot the subject of a patent.
We have shown that the new use of an old medicine or
composition of matter cannot be patented; and surely, if a
compositior of matter (which requires mind and skill) could
not be applied to a new use, the application of one of the sub.
stances of which the composition was made could not be applied to a new use, and thereby lay the foundation for a patent.
And we have also shown that the substitution of one material.
for another is not a patentable subject.
We claim, therefore, in conclusion, that this patent is void,
1st. Because it claims in its specification to" have invented
the mode of fastening the knob to the handle, which the verdict
of the jury has shown to be untrue, and therefore the claim is
larger than the invention.
2d. Because a patent for the substitution of one material for
another, without any combination, or any new mode or process
of manufacturing the article, cannot be sustained.
3d. Because no patent for the manufacture of an article can
be sustained, unless the particular mode of rhAnufacturing the
article is specified and is new, and the difference between the
old and new mcle of manufacturing is pointed out

284

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood, et aL

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit. Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio.
The suit was brought against the defendants for the alleged
infringemefii o'a-patent for a new and useful improvement in
making door and other knobs of all kinds of clay used in pottery, and of porcelain.
The improvement consists in making the knobs' of clay or
porcelain, and in fitting them for their application to doors,
locks, and furniture, and various other uses to which they may
be adapted; but more especially in this, that of having the
cavity in the knob in which the screw or shank is inserted, and
by which it is fastened, largest at the bottom and in the form
of dovetail, or wedge reversed, and a screw formed therein
by pouring in metal in a fused state; and, after referring to
drawings of the article thus made, the patentees conclude as
-ollows :"What we claim 's our invention, and desire to secure by
letters patent, is the manufacturing of knobs, as stated in the
foregoing specifications, of potter's clay, or any kind of clay
used in pottery, and shaped and finished by moulding, turning,
burning, and glazing; and also of porcelain."
On the trial evidence was given on the part of the plaintiffs
tending to prove the originality and usefulness of the invention, and also the infringemerit by the defendants; and on
the part of the defendants, tending to show the want of origi-nality; and that the mode of fastening the shank to the knob,
as claimed by the plaMniffs, had been known and used before,
and had been used and applied to the fastening of the shanks
t6 metallic knobs.
And upon the evidence being closed, the counsel for the
plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the jury that, although
the clay knob, in the form in which it was patented, may have
been before known and used, and also the shank and spindle
by which it is attached may have been before known and
used, yet if such shank and spindle had never before been attached in this mode to a knob of potter's clay, and it required
skill and invention to attach the same to a knob of this de,cription, so that they would be firmly united, and make a
strong and substantial article, and which, when thus made,
would become' an article much better and cheaper than the
knobs made of metal or other materials, the patent was valid,
and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover.
The court relbsi tor-give the instruction, and charged the
jbry that, if knobs of the same form and t'or the same purposes
As that claimed by the patentees, made of 'metal or other ma-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

265

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

terial, had been before known and used; and if the spindle
and shank, in the form used by them, had been before known
and used, and had been attached to the metallic knob by means
bf a cavity in the form of dovetail and infusion of melted
metal, the same as the mode claimed by the patentees, in the'
attachment of the shank and spindle to their knob; and the
knob of clay was simply the substitution of one material for
another, the spindle and shank being the same as before in
common use, and also the mode of connecting them by dovetail to the knob the same as before in common use, and no
more ingenuity or skill required to construct the knob in'this
way than that possessed by an ordinary mechanic acquainted
with the business, the patent was invalid, and the plaintiffs
were not entitled to a verdict.
This instruction, it is claimed, is erroneous, and one for
which a new trial should be granted.
The instruction assumes, and, as was admitted on the argument, properly assumes, that knobs of metal, wood, &c., connected with a shank and spindle, in the mode and by the means
used by the patentees in their manufacture, had been before
known, and were in public use at t t e date of the patent; and
hence the only novelty which couldt be claimed on their part
was the adaptation of this old contrivance to knobs of potter's
clay or porcelain ; in other words, the novelty consisted in the
substitution of the clay knob in the place of one made of metal
or wood, as the case might be. And in. order to appreciate
still more clearly the extent of the novelty claimed, it is proper
to add, that this knob of potter's clay is not new, and therefore
constitutes no part of the discovery. If it was, a very different
question would arise; as it might very well be urged, and successfully urged, that a knob of a new composition of matter, to
which this old contrivance had been applied, and which resulted
in a new and useful article, was the proper subject of a patent.
The novelty would consist in the new coriiposition made
practically useful for. the purposes of life, by the means and contrivances mentioned. It would be a new manufacture, and
none the less so, within the: meaning of- the patent law, because the means employed to adapt the new composition to a
useful purpose was old, or well known.
But in the case before us, the knob is not new, nor the
metallic shank and spindle, nor the dovetail form of the cavity
in the knob, nor the means by which the metallic shank is
securely fastened therein. All these were well- known, and in
common use; and the only thing new is the substitution of a
knob of a different material from that heretofote used in connection with this arrangement.
VOL. XI.

23

266

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et #1.

Now it may very well be, that, by connecting the clay or
porcelain knob With the metallic shank in this well-known
mode, an article is produced better and cheaper than in the
case of the metallic or wood knob; but this does not result
from any new mechanical device or contrivance, but from the
fact, that the material of which the*knob is composed happens
to be better adapted to the purpose for which it is made. The
improvement consists in the superiority of the material, and
which is not new, over that previously employed in' making
the knob.
But this, of itself, can never be the subject of a patent. No
one will pretend that a machine, made, in whole or in part, of
materials better adapted to the purpose for which it is used
than the materials of which the old one is constructed, and for
that reason better and cheaper, can be distinguished from
the old one; or, in the sense of the patent law, can entitle the
manufacturer to a patent.
The difference is formal, and destitute of ingenuity or invention. It may afford evidence of judgment and skill in the selection and adaptation of the materials in the manufacture of
the instrument for the purposes intended, but nothing more.
I remember having tried an action in the Circuit in the District of Connecticut some years since, brought upon a patent for
an improvement in manufacturing buttons. The foundation
of the button was wood, and the improvement consisted in
covering the face with tin, and which was bent over the rim so
as to be firmly secured to the wood. Holes were perforated in
the centre, by which the button could be fastened to the garment. It was a cheap and useful article for common wear,
and in a good deal of demand..
On the trial, the defendant produced a button, which had
been taken off a coat on which -it had been worn before the
Revolution, made precisely in the same way, except the foundation was bone. The case was given up on the part of the
plaintiff. Now the new article was better and cheaper than
the old one; but I did not then suppose, nor do I now, that
this could make Pny difference, unless it was the result of some
new contrivance or arrangement in the manufacture. Certainly it could not, for the reason tthat th6 materials with which it
was made were of a superior quality, or better adapted to the
uses to which the article isdpplied.
It seemed to be supposed,, on- the argument, that this mode
of fastening the shank tQ the clay knob produced a new and
peculiar effict upon the.drticle, beyond that produced when applied to the metallic knob, inasmuch as. the fused metal 'by.
which the shank was fastened to the knob prevented the shank'

DOCEMBER TERM, 1850.

267

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

from acting immediately upon the knob, it being inclosed and
firmly held by the metal; that for this reason the clay or
porcelain knob was not so liable to crack or be broken, but
was made firm and strong, and more durable.
This is doubtless true. But the peculiar effect thus referred
to is not distinguishable from that whiich would exist in the
case of the wood knob, or one of bone or ivory, or of other materials that might be mentioned.
Now if the foregoing view of the improvement claimed in
this patent be correct, it is quite apparent that there was no
error in the submission of the questions presented at the trial
to the jury; for unless more ingenuity and skill in applying the
old method of fastening the shank and the knob were required
in the application of it to the clay or porcelain knob than were
possessed by an ordinary mechanic acquainted with the business, there was an absence of thUt degree of skill and ingenuity which constitute essential elements of every invention. In
other words, the improvement is the work of the skilful mechanie, not that of the inventor.
WVe think, therefore, that the judgment is, and must be, affirmed.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented.
I feel obliged to dissent from my brethren in this case. It is
chiefly, however, in regard to the manner in which some of the
facts were submitted to the jury; but, involving as it does an
important principle in the practice under our patent system, it
may be useful to explain the grounds of my dissent.
It is agreed, that in July, 1841, John G. Hotchkiss and two
others obtained a patent for what they described as "a new
and useful improvement in making door and other knobs of
all kinds of clay used in pottery, and of porcelain.'
The first question of law which arises on the record is,
.whether the patent covered merely the knob, the bulbous handle, or included also the shank or spindle, and the mode of fastening it to the handle.
The charge of the judge at the trial, as drawn up in the exceptions, seems to have proceeded on the ground that the patent and invention covered both the knob and mode of fastening. Whether this was a correct construction does not, however, seem to be very material, when we consider the instruc-tions given to the jury in other respects; and that they were
equally applicable to the bulbous handle alone, or the handle
with its dovetail hollow, or the handle and the shank combined.
If both parties acquiesced below in the idea that the patent

268

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

was not only for such a knob, but the combination of such a
knob with the shank in the mode described, and the charge
was predicated (.n that view, it is,'perhaps, not allowable here
to take a different position.
In order to understand clearly what is deemed objectionable
in the course pursued below, it may be noticed that the chief
grounds of objection to the patent thus construed below seem
to have been, that the invention was not origihal, nor of a character to be patentable.
The statement in the bill of exceptions is in bulne respects
obscure. But the substance of the instruction on this, as set
outi there, is, that if the invention had been made before or was
flow confined, ." so that the knob of clay or porcelain is the
mamere substitution of one material for another," -c"the
.terial being in common use and no other ingenuity or skill
being necessary to construct the knob than that of an ordinary mechanic acquainted with the business, -the patent is
void," &c.
The counsel for the plaintiffs next requested the court to proceed further, and charge the jury, that, "if the said knob of clay
or porcelain so attached were an article better and cheaper
than the knob theretofore manufactured of metal or other
materials, the patent was valid." But the court did not give
any such instruction. In this, I think, was the chief error.
From the record I feel bound to believe that evidence was offered on both sides as to the originality and utility of the knob,
and its mode of combination with the shank. It would seem,
then, to have been the duty of the court below to instruct the
jury, that it was their province to decide not only on which side
the evidence preponderated, but if the invention was cheaper
and better than what preceded it, that protection should be
given to it as patentable.
In either view, considered as an invention of the knob
alone, or the knob and handle combined, the chief question
is still the same, whether proper instructions as to its being
patentable, and all the proper instructions which the circumstances required, Were given.
Now, on the point as to the invention being patentable, the
direction virtually was to consider it not so, if an ordinary
mechanic could have made or devised it; whereas in my view
the true test of its being patentable was, if .the invention was
new, and better and cheaper than what prece'ded it. This test,
adopted by the Circuit Court, is one sometimes used to decide
whether the invention for which a patent has been obtained is
new enough'or distinguished enough from a former invention
to prevent it from being an infringement, and to justify a new

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

269

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

patent for it, and not, as here, whether it is valuable or material
enough per se to be protected by any patent.
'Whenever the kind of test adopted below is used otherwise
than to see if there has been an infringement or not, it is to ascertain whether the invention is original or not, that is, whether
it is a trilling change and merely colorable or not. Webster
on Sub. Mat. 26; Curtis on Patents, §§ 6, 7; 2 Gallis. C. C.
51; 1 Mason, C. C. 18:. But it is impossible for an invention
to be merely colorable, if, as claimed here, it was better and
cheaper; and hence this last criterion should, as requested by
the plaintiffs, have been suggested as a guide to the jury.
Then, if they became convinced that the knob in this case,
by its material, or form inside, or combination with the shank,
was in truth better and cheaper than what had preceded it for
this purpose, it would surely be an improvement. It would
be neither frivolous nor useless, and, under all the circumstances, it is manifest that the skill necessary to construct it, on
which both the court below and the court here rely, is an immaterial inquiry, or it is entirely subordinate to the question,
whether the invention was not cheaper and better. Thus, some
valuable discoveries are accidental rather than the result of
much ingenuity, and some happy ones are made without the
exercise of -eat skill, which are still in themselves both novel
and useful. Such are entitled to protection by a patent, because they improve or increase the power, convenience, and
wealth of the community.
Chancellor Kent has truly said (2 Kent's Comm. 371), "The
law has no regard to the process of mind by which the invention was accomplished, whether the discovery be by accident
or by sudden or by long and laborious thought." See also
Earle v. Sawyer, 4 Mason, C. C. 1, 6 ; Crane v. Price, Webstcs.3
Pat. Cases, 411.
In this last case, Chief Justice Tindall goes quite as far as
Chancellor Kent, and says: " In point of law, the labor of
thought or experiment and the expenditure of money are not
the essential grounds 'of consideration on which the question
whether the invention is or is not the subject-matter of a
patent ought to depend. For if the invention be new and useful to the public, it is not material whether it be the result of
long experiments and profound research, or whether by some
sudden and lucky 1l ought or mere accidental discovery."
So in Earle v. Sawyer, 4 .Mason, 1, the'doctrine settled is,
that "a combination, if simple and obvious, yet if entirely new,
is patentable. And it is no objection to it, that up to a certain point it makes use of old machinery." And Justice Story
says, in so many words: " It is of no consequence whether
23*

270

SUPREME COURT.
Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood ot al.

the thing be simple or complicated, whether it be by accident
or by long, laborious thought, or by an instantaneous flash of
the mind, that it was first done." "The law looks to the fact,
and not the process by which it is accomplished." (p. 6.) •
It is thus apparent to my mind that thetest adopted below
for the purpose to which it was applied, and which has just
been sanctioned here, has not the countenance of precedent,
either English or American; and, at the same time, it seems
open to great looseness or tincertainty in practice.
But it has been urged here, that this invention was merely
applying clay and porcelain ti"a new purpose, and that merely
6. new purpose, in our patent system, is not entitled to protection. 2 Stoiy, 190, 412; Losh v. Hague, Webster Pat. Cas. 207;
Curtis on Patents, 87. The meaning of this rule, however,
as eviscerated from all the cases is, that the application of an
old machine or old composition of matter before patented to a
new object, or what is termed a double use, does not entitle
one to a patent connected with this new object; because then
there is no new machinery or new combination of old parts,
as in merely applying a patent grist-mill to a new purpose of
grinding plaster.
But it is entirely diffeient if you apply an old earth, or old
mechanical power, or old principle in physics, to a new object.
There is then a new form adopted, or a new combination for
the purpose. And though the elementary material be old, or
the elementary principle operating be old, it being difficult to
discover a new substance or new elementary principle, yet
there is a new shape and consistency and use given, or a new
modus operandi,which, if cheaper and better, benefits the world
and deserves protection and encouragement.
If these are the effects, however small the skill or ingenuity
required to imitate them, they are not excluded from the aid
of the laws by either principles or precedents. They are not
mere double uses of a previous machine or composition; but a
double or additional form or composition of an article for a
new purpose.
There is a new manufacture, as here of clay into knobs,
or knobs with a dovetail hollow combined with a shank. The
books are full of such slight changes in structure, composition,
or mode of application, which were novel, and better in their
results, and therefore upheld, and were not and could not be
regarded merely as the application of an old machine to new
purposes. Beside the new material and the new mode of fastening, when the results as here are considerably improved,.
they suffice to make the invention patentable. (Webster on
the Sub. Matter, 29, 00.) These are then all required by the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

271

Hotchkiss et al. v. Greenwood et al.

strictest law, viz. "diversity of method" and "diversity of effect" Phillips on Patents, 122.
Here, the new material for a knob, instead of former materials, was more durable than wood, was cheaper than iron,
and very beautiful to the eye, instead of I6oking coarser. Its
structure to receive a dovetailed shank and secure it by fused
metal, rather than by a hole through and a screw at the end,
appears to have been highly important; and if embraced in the
patent, as was probably considered in the court below, furnished an additional reason for instructing the july to consider
whether the knob in controversy was not cheaper and better
than what preceded it.
The precedents are quite full on this, and some of them in
all respects nearly in point. Similar to this was the-hot blast,
substituted for the cold in making iron, and a patent for it upheld. Neilson's Case, Webster, P. C. 14. The bjast was still air,
but in a different condition, leading to niew and useful results.
So the use of the flame of gas to finish cloth rather than the
flame of oil. Webster, P. C. 99. So steel plates used instead
of copper in engraving. Kneass v. Schuylkill Bank, 4 Wash.
C. C. 9, 11. That very closely resembles the present case.
So pit-coal, substituted for charcoal in making iron, has
been deemed patentable (Webster, P. C. 14); and anthracite
for bituminous coal (273.) There are also some strong opinions beside these decisions in favor of a change in metal for
an instrument being alone sufficient for a patent, if more useful or cheaper. See Webster on Sub. Matter, 25, note, and
Curtis on Patents, § 8. (Phillips on Patents, 134, if there be
any contrivance connected with it.) Indeed, why should it not
be sufficient? A new mode of operating or a new composition
to produce better results is the daily ground for a patent. All
which the act of Congress itself requires is that the invention
be for "any new and useful improvement on any art, machine,
manufacture, or composition of matter," &c. 5 Stat. at Large,
lust it not then be considered such an imp. 119, § 6.
provement, if operatinj with new materials, both cheaper and
more durable ?
Who cannot realize that, since the improved modes of cutting, boring, and shaping, the substitution of iron for wYood
in many manufactures might not often be a gain in strength
and durability, quite beyond any difference in expense, and
be justly patentable? Who, too, would not deem it material
to gain by the use of wood or leather, or a cheap metal, instead
of gold and silver, for some manufacture or mechanical purpose, when it can be done with increased benefit as well as
cheapness. And why is not he a benefactor to the commu-

272

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

nity, and to be encouraged by protection, who invents a use of
so cheap an earth as clay for knbbs, or in a new form or combination, by which the community are largely gainers?
On the whole case, then, it seems to me that justice between
these parties, as well as s6und legal principle, requires another

trial on instructions upon some points omitted, and instructions in some 6ther respects different in law from what were
given in this instance at the first trial.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
9f Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration

whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

MARY REESID, EXECUTRIX OF JAMSS REESIDE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. RoBEaT J. WALKER,; SECRETARY OF THE TLEASURY OF
THE UNITED STATES.
According to the practice in Pennsylvania, where a aefendant pleads set-off, the jury
are allowed to find in their verdict the amount that the plaintiff is indebted to the
-defendant, and According to their mode of keeping records this resul is entered by
way of note; e. g. "new trial refused and judgment on the verdict."
Although this may be a good record in the courts of Pennsylvania, it does not follow
that it is so in the courts of the United States.
The effect of such a judgment, that the plaintiff is indebted to the defendant, is merely
to lay the foundation for a scireflacius to try this new cause of action.
Where the United States were the plaintiffs, and a verdict was rendered that they
were indebted to the defendant, and an application was made for a mandamus to
compel the Secretary of the Treasury to credit the defendant upon the books of the
Treasury with the amount of the verdict, and to pay the same, the mandamus was
properly refused by the Circuit Court. For a mandamus will only lie against a
ministerial officer to do some ministerial act where the laws require him to do it
and he improperly refuses to do so.
Besides, there was no appropriation made by law, and no officer of the government
can pay a debt due by the United States without an appropriation by Congress.
To sanction a judgment under a plea, of set-off would virtually be allowing the
United States to be sued, which the laws do not allov.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District bf Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.

James Reeside, in hit lifetime, was one of the contractors
with the Post-Office' Department for the transportation of the
mail, and claimed sundry extra"alowances, which were not al-

