DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

177

Hortsman v. Henshaw et al.

JOHN HoRTsiDEAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. Jonx HENSHAw, NVILLIAN
WARD, AND JOSEPH W. VARD, MERCHANTS-AND COPARTNERS, DOING
BUSINESS UNDER THE FiRni AND STYLE OF HENSHAw, WARD, & Co.,
DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Where a bill of exchange had upon it the forged indorsement of the payees, but it
had been put into circulation by the drawers with such forged indorsement already
upon it, and it was purchased in the ifuarket by a bond fide holder, who presented
it to the drawee, who accepted and paid it at maturity, and then the drawers failed,
the drawee cannot recover back the money which he had paid to the bond fide
holder.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for Massachusetts.
The whole case is set forth in the declaration and bill of exceptions, which were a. follows.
"JoHN IIORTSMAN, of London, in that part of the kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland called England, a subject of the
Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, alien to each and
every of the United States of North America, and not a
citizen of either or any of said States, Esquire, versus JOHN
HENSHAW, WILLIAI WARD, and JOSEPa W. WARD, of Boston, in said District, merchants and copartners, doing business under the firm and style of Henshaw, Ward, and
Company, and citizens of the State of Massachusetts, one
of the United States of North America.
"In i plea of the case, for that whereas, heretofore, to wit,
on the
day of January, in the year 1845, the said defendants, by their agents at London aforesaid, presented to said
plaintiff a certain bill of exchange in writing, made by certain
persons under the name and style of Fiske & Bradford, at said
Boston, on the 15th day of November, in the year 1844, directed to said plaintiff at London aforesaid, and requestirrg
him, at sixty days after sight of that their first of exchange,
second and third of same tenor and date unpaid, to pay to the
order of Fiske & Bridge the sum of six hundred and fortytwo pounds sterling; said bill of exchange purporting to
be indorsed by said Fiske & Bridge, the payees thereof,
and also indorsed by said defendants; and said defendants.
through their said agents, required the acceptance and payment of the said bill of exchange by said plaintiff, and thereby
represented to said plaintiff, and undertook, that said bill of
exchange was true and genuine, and the signatures thereto
and the indorsements thereon were also genuine; whereupon,
confiding in the representations and undertakings aforesaid
of said defendants, the said plaintiff accepted and paid the

178

SUPREME COURT.
Hortsman v. Henshaw et al.

amount of said bill of exchange, when the same became due
and payable, to the said defendants, through their said agents;
but the plaintiff avers that the said bill of exchange was not
indorsed by said Fiske & Bridge, the payees thereof, or by
any person or persons thereunto authorized by them, but that
the indorsement thereon, purporting to be their name and signature, was a forgery, of which said defendants had due notice; by means whereof said bill of exchange became and was
to- said plaintiff wholly worthless and valueless, and the payment of the amount thereof to said defendants by said plaintiff, confiding and trusting in the representations and undertakings aforesaid of said defendants, was wholly without consideration; and that the representations aforesaid of said defendants, confiding in which said plaintiff accepted and paid the
amount of .said bill to said defendants, were untrue; and that
said defendants have not complied with or fulfilled their undertakings and agreements aforesaid; and that thereby said
defendants became and were justly indebted to said plaintiff
in the amount of said bill, to wit, the amount of six hundred
and forty-two pounds sterling, of the money of Great Britain; and, in consideration thereof, promised the saitt plaintiff to pay him the same when they should be thereunto requested.
"Andi also, for that the.said defendants, on the day of the
purchase of this wiit, being indebted to the plaintiff in the
sum of five thousand dollars, for goods sold and delivered by
the plaintiff to the defendants; and in the same amount for
work done, and materials for the same, provided by the plaintiff for the defendants at their request; and in the same
amount for money lent by the plaintiff to the defendants; and
in the same amount for money received by the defendants to
the use of the plaintiff; and in the same amount for money
paid by the plaintiff for the use of the defendants at their request; and in the same amount for money due from the defendants to the plaintiff for interest of money before then due
and owing from the defendants to the plaintiff, and by the
plaintiff forborne to the defendants, at the defendants' request4
for a long time before then elapsed; in consideration thereof,
promised to pay the same to the plaintiff on demand, yet they
have not paid the same; to the damage of the said plaintiff,
as he says, the sum of five thousand dollars.
"This action was entered at the October term of this court,
A. D. 1845, and was thence continued from term to term until
the present term.
"And now the defendants come to defend, &c., and for a
plea say -that they never promised in manner and form as the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

179

Hortsman v. Henshaw et al.

plaintiff doth allege in his writ, and of this put themselves on
the country.
W. WHITING, their
Attorney.
"

And the plaintiff doth the like, by
FLETCHER WEBSTER,

his Attorney.

"Issue being thus joined, the cause, after a full hearing, is
committed to a jury sworn according to law to try the same,
who, after hearing all matters and things concerning the same,
return their verdict therein, and upon oath, that isto say:
"The jury find that the defendants did not promise in manner
and form as the plaintiff hath alleged against them in his writ.
"It is therefore considered by the court that the said John
Henshaw, William Ward, and Jos..W. Ward, recover against
"
the said John Hortsman the costs of suit, taxed at
Bill of Exceptions.
" Circuit Court of the United States for the First Circuit,
October term, 1846.
District of MZfassachusetts, s;.
" HORTSMrAN V. HENSHAW ET AL.

" This was an action of assumpsit, brought to recover
$ 3,114.70, and interest and damages.
"On the trial of the cause, the following facts were either
proved or admitted.
"On the 15th day of November, 1844, at Boston, Fiske &
Bradford, copartners, drew their bill of exchange for six hundred
and forty-two pounds sterling, payable at sixty days' sight to
the order of Fiske & Bridge, and directed the same to the
plaintiff at London. Fiske & Bridge were a mercantile firm in
oston at that time.
"The names of Fiske & Bridge, the payees, were forged en
the bill; said bill of exchange, with the forged indorsement
of the payees' names, was delivered by the drawers, or one
of them, to Thayer & Brothers, brokers, who sold the same,
among other bills of exchange, in the usual course of business,
to the defendants, bond fide and for full value.
"The defendants indorsed this bill to Baring, Brothers, &
Co., at London, for collection, by whom it was presented to
the plaintiff, and accepted by him, and paid at maturity*on the
1st of January, 1845, and the proceeds placed to the credit of
t*e defendants. This suit was commenced September, 1845.
In April, 1845, the drawers became insolvent, and continued so
to the time of the trial. One of them received his discharge
under the insolvent laws of Massachusetts.

180

SUPREME COURT.
Hortsman v. Henshaw et al.

"It was not shown that said payees had any interest in or
any knowledge of said bill of exchange, but the contrary.
"Neither the plaintiff nor the defendant had any suspicion
of the forgery at the time of the sale and purchase, acceptance
and payment, of the said bill; and no demand or notice to the
defendants was proved to have been made in relation to said
bill, or the subject-matter. of said suit, prior to bringing this
action.
"At the trial the plaintiff's counsel requested the presiding
judge to charge the jury, that, if the forgery were proved, the
defendants would be liable to refund to the plaintiff the amount
paid them by him on said bill, with interest and damages; but
the judge declined so to instruct the jury; and, on the contrary,
ruled that if the drawers of the bill sold it for their own benefit,
with the names of the payees indorsed upon it when it passed
out of their hands, though such indorsement were forged, and
received the amount of said bill, and afterwards remained in
gocd credit until April, 1845, and then became irsolvent, and
have since remained so, and no notice was given to or demand
made upon the defendants in relation to said bill or the subjectmatter of this suit until this suit was commenced, then the
plaintiff could not recover.
"Thereupon the jury found a verdict for the defendants.
"To these rulings the plaintiff's counsel excepted, and his
exceptions, being found conformable to the truth, are allowed.
"PELEG SPRAGrE, Jud-e, 4-c."
Upon this exception the cause came up to this court, where
it was argued by Afr. Fletcher Webster, for the plaintiff in error,
and submitted by 1ifr. Curtis,upon a printed brief prepared by
315r. Wtiting, for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error relied upon the following points.
1. No title can be acquired through a forgery. Johnson v.
Windle, 3 Bing. N. C. 225, 229; Mead v. Young, 4 T. R. 28;
Chitty on Bills, 10th Am. ed., 260; Canal Bank v. Bank of
Albany, 1 Hill, (N. Y.) 287.
2. A bill is no payment to the person in whose favor it is
drawn, unless indorsed by him. Smith v. Chester, 1 T. R. 654;
Chitty on Bills, 261, 262, note.
3. An acceptor is not bound to know the handwriting of an
indorser. Story on Bills, §§ 412,451.
4. The indorser of a bill guaranties the genuineness of all
signatures prior to his own; if he does not choose to make inquiries of any of the parties whose names appear on the bill,

DECEMBER 'TERM,

1850.

181

Hortsman v. Henshaw et al.

having an opportunity of doing so, it is his own fault, and
amounts to laches.
Where two parties are equally innocent, that one whose
misfortune comes by'.hf own negligence should bear the loss,
and not he to whom no want of due caution can be attributed.
Chitty on Bills, 430; U. Stites Bank v. Bank of Georgia, 10
Wheaton, 344, 354.
5. Immedidte notice pf forgery by the acceptor is not necessary in order to enable him to recover. Chitty on Bills, 261;1 Hill, (N. Y.) 287.
6. Nor is notice necessary at all, unless When, for want of
it, the rights of parties may be prejudiced or lost; where no
such rights are affected, it is not necessary in order that the
acceptor of a forged bill may recover of the holder. Chitty on
Bills, 427; Johnson v. Windle, 3 Bing. N. C. 225.
7. B ut the plaintiff may recover back the money paid as
having been paid under mistake. See cases before cited.
The points made by the counsel for the defendants in error
were the fbllowing.
1. It is presumed that the drawee.who accepts a" bill has
funds of the drawer in his hands; and, as against the holder,
this could not be rebutted by proof of the fact. But in this
case there is no such proof. See Chitty on Bills, 303 (10th
Am. ed.).
2. Plaintiff's action is brought to recover money as paid
under a mistake of fact; but the money was not paid under
mistake of any material fact. Plaintiff lost nothing by forgery
of payee's name, for the payee would not have been bound
to the acceptor if his indorsement had been genuine. The
acceptor gives credit only to the drawer, and not to any intermediate indorser.
3. The drawer, having sold the bill with the payee's name
indorsed thereon, (whether forged or not,) and having received
the amount of the bill, cannot deny the genuineness of the indorsement. The acceptor has only appropriated the funds of
the drawer according to his request, and the drawer cannot
deny that request. Lobclll v. Baker, 1 Metcalf, 193; Lobdell
v. Baker, 3 Metcalf, 469
4. Where any act of the drawer facilitates a forgery, the
drawer must bear fhe loss; a fortiari he must bear it where
he negotiates a bill with a forged indorsement. Bait if the
drawer is charged, the defendant is discharged. Byles on Bills,
250; Young v. Grote, 4 Bing. 253.
5. A bill payable to a fictitious person or order, and indorsed
in the payee's name, will be deemed payable to bearer in favor
VOL. XL.

16

182

SUPREME COURT.
Hortsman v. Henshaw et al.

of a bond fide holder; and, in every case where the drawer indorses the payee's name on the note, it may be declared on as
against the drawer as payable to beorer. Story on Bills, § 56;
Vose v. Louis, 3 T. R. 182; Collijis v.'Emmett, 1 H. BI. 313,
569; Tatlock v. Harris, 3 T. R. 174; Minet v. Gibson, 3 T. R.
481.
6. The plaintiff's proposition, that no title can be acquired
by means of a forgery, is inapplicable to this case, because here
the drawer delivers the note bearing the forged indorsement.
And this case is distinguished from those where the acceptor
has recovered money paid on a forged indorsement made after
the bill left the drawer's hands; because in those cases the
drawer did not order the acceptor to pay the holder, and in this
case he does so order the acceptor.
7. The reason why the acceptor, paying a bill on the faith of
a forged indorsement, may recover of the holder, is, that the
holder has no title to the bill; but in this case the holder had
a perfect title to the bill.
8. The indorser does not guaranty the genuineness of all
previous signatures to the drawee, but his engagement with the
drawee is discharged if the drawee has the drawer's authority,
for paying- and charging him.
9. If the drawee in this case is a loser, it is because he has
paid without funds of the drawer in his hands, and because
the drawer has failed. But the indorser does not warrant to
the acceptor the drawer's solvency, nor undertake to protect
the acceptor in such a payment.
10. If the plaintiff could maintain his action in any event, it
could not be without giving immediate notice'of the forgery to
the defendant. Cocks V. Masterman, 9 Barn. & Cres. 902;
Smith v. Mercer, 6 Taunt. 76; Gloucester Bank v. Salem
Bank, 17 Mass. 33; Bank of St. Albans V. Farmers and Mechanics' Bank,- 10 Verm. 141.
11. No cause of action could accrue, until the plaintiff had
demanded payment of the defendant.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The material facts in this case may be stated in a few words.
Fiske & Bradford, a mercantile firn. in Boston, drew their
bill of exchange, upon Hortsrnan of Lo.don, payable at sixty
days' sight to the order of Fiske & Bridge, for six hundred and
forty-two pounds sterling. The drawers, or tne of them, placed
the bill in the hands of a broker, with the names of the payees
indorsed upon it, to be negotiated; and it was sold to the defendants in error bond fide and for full value. They transmitted it to their correspondent in London, and upon presentation

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

183

Hortsman v. Henshaw et aL

it was accepted by the drawee, and duly paid at maturity. The
payees and indorsees all resided in Boston, where the bill was
drawn and negotiated.
It turned out that the indorsement of the payees was forgedi
-by
whom does not appear; and a few months after the bill
was paid, the drawers failed and became insolvent. The
drawee, having discovered the forgery, brought this action
against the defendants in error to recover back the money he
had paid them.
The precise question which this case presents does not appear to have arisen in the English courts; nor in any of the
courts of this country with the exception of a single case, to
which we shall hereafter more particularly refer. But the
established principles of commercial law in "relation to bills of
exchange leave no difficulty in deciding the question.
The general rule undoubtedly is, that the drawee by accepting the bill admits the handwriting of the drawer; but not of
the indorsers. And the holder is bound to know that the previous indorsements, including that of the payee, are in the handwriting of the parties whose names appear upon the bill, or
were duly authorized by them. And if it should appear that
one of them is forged, he cannot recover against the acceptor,
although the forged name was on the bill at the time of the
acceptance. And if he has received the money from the acceptor, and the forgery is afterwards discovered, he will be
compelled to repay it.
The reason of the rule is obvious. A forged indorsement
cannot transfer any interest in the bill, and the holder therefore
has no right to demand the money. If the bill is dishonored
by the drawee, the drawer is not responsible. And if the
drawee pays it to a person not authorized to receive the money,
he cannot claim credit for it in his account with the drawer.
But in this case the bill was put in circulation by the drawers, with the names of the payees indorsed upon it. And by
doing so they must be understood as affirming that the indorsement is in the handwriting of the payees, or written by their
authority. And if the drawee had dishonored the bill, the indorser would undoubtedly have been entitled to recover from
the drawer. The drawers must be equally liable to the acceptor
who paid the bill. For having admitted the handwriting of
the payees, and precluded themselves from disputing it,*the bill
"was paid by the acceptor to the persons authorized to receive
the money, according to the drawer's own order.
" Now the acceptor of a bill is presumed to accept upon funds
of the drawer in his hands, and he is precluded by his acceptance from averring the contrary in a suit brought against him

184

SUPREME COURT.
Hortsman v. Henshaw et aL.

by the holder. The rights of the parties are therefore to be
determined as if this bill was paid by Hortsman out of the
money of Fiske & Bradford in his hands. And as Fiske &
Bradford were liable to the defendants in error, they are entitled to retain the money they have thus received.
We take the rule to be this. Whenever the drawer is liable to the holder, the acceptor is entitled to a credit if he pays
the money; and he is bound to pay upon his acceptance, when
the payment will entitle him to a credit in his account with
the drawer. And if he accepts without funds, upon the credit
of the drawer, he must look to'him for indemnity, and cannot
upon that ground defend himself against a bond fide indorsee.
The insolvency of the drawer can make no difference in the
rights and legal liabilities of the parties.
The English cases most analogous to this are those in which
the names of the drawers or payees were fictitious, and the indorsement written by the maker of the bill. And in such cases
it has been held that the acceptor is liable, although, as the
payees were fictitious persons, their handwriting of course
could not be proved by the holder. 10 Barn. & Cres. 478. The
American case to which we referred is that of Meachim v.
Fort, 3 Hill, (S. C.) 227. The same question now before the
court arose in that case, and was decided in conformity with
this opinion.
Another question was raised in the argument upon the sufficiency of the notice; and it was insisted by the counsel for the
defendants, that, if they could have been made liable to this
action by the plaintiff, they have been discharged by his laches
in ascertaining the forgery and giving them notice of it.
But it is not necessary to examine this question, as the point
already decided decides the case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Massachusetts, and was argued by'counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

