DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

437

Webster v. Reid.
JOSEPH ,VEBSTER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,.V. HUGH

T.

REID.

Where a judgment was rendered by the Supreme Court for Iowa Territory and the
record certified to this court by the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, after her
admission into the Union, and the subject-matter is within the jurisdiction of this
court, it will take jurisdiction over the case.
Where the legislature of the Territory of Iowa directed that suits might be instituted against "the Owners of the Half-breed Lands lying in Lee County," notice
thereof being given through the newspapers, and judgments were recovered in
suits so instituted, these judgments were nullitics.
There'was no personal notice to individuals, nor an attachment or other proceeding
against the land, until after the judgments.
The law moreover directed that the court should decide without the intervention of
a jury to determine matters of fact. This was inconsistent with the Constitution
of the United States.
The court below erred in not permitting evidence to be offered to show that the
judgments were fraudulent. It erred also in not allowing the defendant to give
his title in evidence.
The defendant ought al~o to have been allowed to give evidence that the judgments
had not been obtained in conformity with the law which required certain preliminary steps to be taken.

Tnis case was brought up by a writ of error allowed by
John F. Kinney, Judge of the Supreme Court of Iowa, on the
10th of November, 1847. The writ was issued, as usual, in,
the name of the President of the United States, and was addressed, " To the Honorable the Judges of the Supreme Court
of the Territory, now State, of Iowa."
It was what was called an action of right brought by Reid
against Webster, to recover the possession of 160 acres of land
in Lee County, then in the Territory of Iowa. The suit was
brought on the 1st of October, 1844.
The facts were these.
On the 4th of August, 1824, the United States made a
treaty with the Sac and Fox Indians, by which a tract of
country between the Des Moines and Mississippi Rivers was
reserved for the use of the Half-breeds belonging to the Sac
and Fox Indians. This treaty -was ratified on the 18th of January, 1825.
On the 30th of June, 1834, Congress passed the following
act (4 Stat. at Large, 740) :11Be it enacted, &c., That all the right, title, and interest,
which might accrue or revert to the United States, to the reservation of land ling between the rivers Des Moines and
Mississippi, which was reserved for the use of the Half-breeds
belonging to the Sac and Fox nations, now used by them, or
some of them, under a treaty made and concluded between the
United States and the Sac and Fox tribes or nations of Indians, at Washington, on the 4th of August, 1824, be, and the
same are hereby, relinquished and vested in the said Half-breeds
370

438

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

of the Sac and Fox tribes or nations of Indians, who, at the
passage of this act, are, undbr the reservation in the said treaty,
entitled, by the Indian title to the same, with full power and
authority to transfer their portions thereof, by sale, devise, or
descent, according to the la-'&s of the State of Missouri."
On the 16th of January, 1838, the territorial legislature of
Wisconsin passed an act for the partition of the Half-breed
lands, and for other purposes. The preamble to the act was
as follows : "Whereas, it is expedient in order to the settlement of that
tract of land lying between the Mississippi and Des Moines
Rivers, commonly called the ' Half-breed lands,' whichi was
reserved for the Half-breeds of the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians, by treaty made at Washington city, between the United
States and those tribes, on the 4th of August, 1824, which
was released to said Half-breeds, with power to convey their
rights, &c., by act of Congress, approved the 30th of June,
1834, that the validity of the titles of the claimants should be
determined, and partition of said lands among those having
claims should be made, or a sale thereof, for the benefit of such
valid claimants; now therefore, Be it enacted,"' &c.
The act directed that all persons claiming any interest in said
lands should file, within one year, with the clerk of the District Court of Lee County, a written notice of their respective
claims, &c. Edward Johnston, -Thomas S. Wilson, and David
Brigham were appointed commissioners to receive testimony
concerning the validity of claims, who should be entitled to
$ 6 per diem. The act consisted of twenty-four sections, and
pointed out the manner in which the commissioners should
discharge their duties. Certain persons were also appointed
to sell portions of the land in order to pay all necessary'expenses.
On the 22d of June, 1838, a supplement was passed, making certain changes, which need not be particularly noticed.
On the 25th of January, 1839, the Council and House of
Representatives of the Territory of Ioweo passed an act repeal.
ing the two preceding acts, and proceeding as follows: 1" Sect. 2. That the several commissioners appointed by and
under that act to sit and take testimony, "may immediately,
or as soon as convenient, commence actions before the District
Court of Lee County, for their several accounts against the
owners of the said 'Half-breed lands,' and give eight weeks'
notice in the Iowa Territorial Gazette to said owners of such
suits; and the judge of said District Court, upon the trial of
said suits before it at its next term, shall, if said accounts are
'deemed co cct, order judgment for the amount and costs to be

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

439

Webster v. Reid.

entered up against said owners, and said judgment shall be a
lien on said lands, and a right of redemption thereto; said
judgment, when entered, shall draw interest at the rate of
twelve per cent. per annum.
" Sect. 3. The words ' Owners of the Half-breed Lands lying
in Lee County," shall be a sufficient designation and specification of the defendants in said suits.
" Sect. 4. All the expenses necessarily incurred by said commissioners in the discharge of their duties under the abovenamed acts, shall be included in their accounts.
"Sect. 5. The trial of said suit or suits shall be before the
court, and not a jury; and this act shall receive a liberal construction, such as will carry out the spirit and intention
thereof.
"Approved, January 25, 1839."
At the August term, 1839, of the District Court for Lee
County, Edward Johnston and David Brigham, two of the
commisioners, recovered judgments against the owners of the
Half-breed lands, as follows: "EDWARD

JOHNSTON V. OWNERS OF THE HALF-BREED LANDS,

lying in Lee County, 1. T. -In Debt.
"Now comes the auditor, appointed by the court to examine, adjust, and allow the account of the plaintiff in the
above-entitled cause, to wit, H. T. Reid, Esq., and makes report that he finds the sum of $ 1,290 to be due from said defendants to said plaintiff, which report is accepted by the court.
Whereupon, it is ordered by the court, that the plaintiff recover
of the defendants the sum of $ 1,290, together with his costs'
of suit in this behalf expended."
v. THE OWNERS OF THE HALF-BREED LANDS,
lying in the County of Lee. - In Debt.
"Now cbmes the auditor, appointed by the court to examine, adjust, and allow the account of the plaintiff in the
above-entitled cause,.to wit, Oliver Weld, Esq., and makes report that he finds the sum of $ 818 to be due from the said defendants to said plaintiff; which report is accepted by the
court. Whereupon, it is ordered by the court, that the plaintiff recover of the said defendants the sum of $ 818, the
amount stated in the auditor's report., and costs in his hehalf
expended."
"DAVID

BRIGHAM

-.

On the 26th of-November, 1841, executions were issued upon
the above two judgments.
On the 1st of December, 1841, the sheriff levied the executions " on the Half-breed tract of land, -sit-ated between the
Mississippi and Des Moines Rivers, granted by treaty to 'the

440

SUPREME

COURT.

Webster v. Reid.

Half-breeds of the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians," and advertised the same for sale on the 1st of January, 1842.
On the 1st of January, 1842, the sheriff sold the land, containing 119,000 acres, mpre or less, to Hugh T. Reid, for the
sum of $ 2,884.66.
On the 2d of January, 1843, William Stotts, sheriff of Lee
County, and successor of the sheriff who had made the sale,
executed a deed to Reid for the following tract, viz. -"All that tract of land lying between the Mississippi and
Des Moines Rivers, and south of a line drawn from a point on
the Des Moines River, opposite the point where the northern
boundary of the State of Missouri strikes the same, to the
Mississippi, commonly known as the Half-breed lands lying in
Lee County, and containing 119,000 acres, more or less; the
said tract of land lying, being, and situate in the county
of Lee and Territory of Iowa aforesaid, with all the right,
interest, claim, and demand of the said owners of the Halfbreed lands lying in Lee County, in, over, and to the same,
and every part and parcel thereof; to have and to hold all the
above-granted premises and appurtenances thereto belonging,
or in any wise appertaining, to the said Hugh T. Reid, his
heirs and assigns for ever.
On the 1st of October, 1844, Reid brought a suit against
Webster, and filed the following declaration "Territory of Iowa, Lee County, ss.
" HUGH T. REID V. JOSEPH WEBSTER.
Hugh T. Reid claims against Joseph Webster a tract of
land, with the appurtenances, lying in the county aforesaid,
and described as follows, to wit, the northeast quarter of section 12, in township .67 north, and range 5 west, containing
160 acres, more or less; and thereupon the said Hugh T. Reid
says that he has right to the immediate possession of said
property, and to the ownership thereof in fee simple, and also
to damages for its detention, and offers to prove that such is
his right.
H. T. REID, Attorney for himself."
The defendant put in the following plea:

-

Territory of Iowa, Lee County, sct.
"District Court of said County, October Term, 1841.
"Joseph Webster denies the right of Hugh T. Reid to the
tract of land, with the appurtenances, and damages for the detention thereof, as set forth in his declaration, or -to any part
thereof; and hereupon he prays a jury t6 determine the truth
of this plea.
"MI~dr..,'MILI.S, & COcunAu~for Defendant."
"

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

441

Webster v. Reid.

On the 12th of May, 1845, the cause came on for trial,
when the verdict of the jury was for the plaintiff.
There were eight bills of exceptions taken in the progress
of the trial, which occupied twenty-six pages of the printed
record. Into them were incorporated long legislative acts and
deeds, of which a summary is given above.
Instead of transcribing these long exceptions, it will be sufficient to state the points involved.
First Exception.
The plaintiff offered in evidence the two judgments given
in favor of Johnston and Brigham.
This was the first evidence offered by the plaintiff to -the
jury. The defendant objected to the admissibility of the judgments, as being rendered without jurisdiction; but the court
overruled the objections, and admitted the records, to which
the defendant excepts, and prays the court to sign and seal
this his first bill of exceptions, which is done at the time the
same was taken on the trial.
CHARLES -MASON, fudge.
Scond Exception.
The plaintiff offered in evidence the above judgments, the
executions issued thereon, the sheriff's return and deed to
Reid; then a witness to prove that Webster was in possession
of the land mentioned in the declaration, and had been so
since the year 1839 or 1840, and that the land was within the
Half-breed reservation; and then the various legislative acts.
The defendant then moved the court to enter a nonsuit
against the plaintiff, which motion was overruled by the court,
to which ruling and decision the defendant excepts and prays,
CHAxEs TAsoN, fudge.
&c.
Third Exception.
Be it known, that on the trial of this cause, after the plaintiff had closed his evidence, and defendant had moved the
court for a norisuit, as stated in a bill of exceptions numbered
two in this cause, the defendant offered to prove to the jury
that the judgments, executions, sheriff's sale, and sheriff's
-deed, constituting the evidence introduced by plaintiff, was all
procured by fraud by said plaintiff and others, and that the
whole title of plaintiff is based upon fraud and fiction; to the
introduction of which evidence the plaintiff objected, and the
court sustained the exception, and ruled that such evidence
should not be admitted; to which defendant excepts, and prays
the court to sign and seal this bill of exceptions.
CHARLES MAsoN,

fudge.

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

Fourth Exception.
.The defendant then offered evidence to show the condition
of the Half-breeds, and then the following deeds 1837, March 3. Na-ma-tau-pas, a Half breed, to John Bond.
1837, March 20. John Bond to Theophilus Bullard.
1838, April 7. Bullard to Webster, the defendant.
The plaintiff objected to the introduction of any of the said,
deeds, and the court sustained the objection, and ruled that
they should be excluded from the jury, to which opinion the
defendant excepts, and prays the court to sign and seal this bill
of exceptions.
CHARLES MASON, Judge.
Fifth Exception.
Be it known, that on the trial of this cause the defenddnt
proved that he acquired the possession of the premises de--.
scribed in plaintiff's declaration by a purchase, as set forth in
deeds included in defendant's fourth bill of exceptions, in the
year 1838; that at the time he purchased there were improveinents on said tract, and that he took possession; and has been
in possession ever since. The defendant then produced evidence, and offered to prove by parol testimony, that no service
had ever been made upon any person in the suits in which the
judgments were rendered upon which the sale was imade to
plaintiff, as set forth in defendant's second bill of exceptions,
which bill is referred to here, and made a part of this; that no
notice was given by publication of the pendency of said suit;
that the plaintiff was the counsel that procured said judg.
ments; that said judgments were rendered upon .a Actitious
dernand, and never proven before the auditor; that Webster
and the owners of the Half-breed tract of land, or some of
them, were prevented from appearing and defending by the
fraudulent representations of said plaintiff; that the sale was
in fact never made by the sheriff,- Taylor; that the whole return of the sheriff, Taylor, was a fraudulent and false rkturn.
The plaintiff objected to the introduction of every part -of said
testimony, and the court ruled and decided that no part of said
evidence wasadmissible, and ruled that the defendent should
not introduce evidence to prove any of the facts above stated;
to wich ruling and depision the defendant excepts.
CHARLIES MAsoN, .Tute.
Sixth Exception.
Be it known, that on the trial of this cause the defendant
fied an affidavit, as, follows, to wit: "6seph -Webster, makes
*oath and says that a certain deed, executed by Hawkins Tay-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

443

Webster v. Reid.

lor, sheriff and collector of Lee County, to R. F. Barrett, dated
the 27th of September, 1841, and recorded in Lee County, is
not in his power to produce on this trial, and is material evidence in his behalf, to be read in the said trial of I T. Reid
v. said Webster, as he is advised by his counsel.
"JOSEPH WEBSTER.

"Sworn and subscribed to before, me, this 15th of May, 1845.
"J. C.. WALKER, Clerk.
By J. G. WALKER, Deputy."
After which, offered the recorder's record of Lee County as
evidence of the deed mentioned in the affidavit. The plaintiff
objected, the court sustained the objection, and ruled that the
record of the deed should not be introduced as evidence; to
which the defendant excepts and prays, &c.
CHARLES MASON, Judge.
Seventh Exception.
The plaintiff offered in evidence the judgments, the execution, and the deed of the sheriff to Reid, the same as mentioned heretofore. The defendant excepted, but the court
overruled the objection and admitted the deed, to which ruling
the defendant excepts and prays, &c.
CHARLES MAsor, Judge.
Eighth Exception.
Be it remembered, that, on the trial of this cause, the plaintiff proved nothing in addition to the evidence introduced as
set forth in bill of exceptions number two; all the evidence
given to the jury by the plaintiff, on examination in chief, or in
iebutting evidence, is the evidence contained in defendant's
bill of exceptions on the motion to nonsuit plaintiff, and it is
here referred to and fully admitted.
Upon this state of facts the defendant prays the court to instruct the jury as follows, to wit: 1st. That, unless it was proved to the satisfaction of the
jury that there was some person or persons within the Ter-.
ritory of Iowa, at the time of the issuing of the process, or
appeared at the trial, or at some stage of the proceedings, that
were within the jurisdiction of the District Court of Lee
County, during the pendency of tAe suits of Johnston and
Brigham, upon which this title accrued, that owned or had
an interest in those lands; they must find for the defeidant.
2d. That unless they find, from the evidence, that there
were owners, and persons or corporations, other than the government, who were owners, or had an interest in said land, at

444

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

the commencement of these suits by Johnston and Brigham,
they must find for the defendant.
3d. That unless the jury find that some one or more of the
owners of the Holf-breed tract of land were citizens of the
Territory of Iowa at the time of the passage of the act of Iowa
legislature, passed January 25th, 1839, or between that time
and the time of the execution of the deed by the sheriff to the
plaintiff, they must find for the defendant.
4th. That unless it has been proved to the jury that the
defendants sued by Johnston and Brigham, and upon whose
'judgments the plaintiff claims his title, were a corporation by
virtue of law, and acting as such, are liable as such, or a partnership firm by that name, or some kind of an association who
had assumed the name of Owners of the Half-breed Lands in
Lee County, the plaintiff cannot recover.
5th. That if it is not proved to the jury that the judgments
of Johnston and B igham were rendered against some person
or persons, body conporate or association of individuals, whose
existence has been proved to exist at the commencement of the
suit, or at the rendition of the judgments, they must find for
the defendant.
6th. That a judgment against a dead person, or a person
who has no existence whatever, is no judgment at all in contemplation of law, and a sale under such a judgment is, yoid.
Which said instructions, so prayed for by the defendant, as
above stated, to be given severally as stated above to the jury,
the court refused to give, and the court refused each and every
instruction, severally above prayed for, as mentioned from one
to six; to which refusal, and ruling, and decision of the court
the defendant excepts, and prays the court to sign and seal this
bill of exceptions'.

CHARLES MASON,

Adg&

It has already been stated, that the jury found a'verdict for
the plaintiff. Webster, tlhe defendant, sued out a writ of error,
and carried the case to the Supreme Court.
In January, 1846, the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Iowa affirmed the judgment of the court below, when Webster brought the ease up to this court.
It was submitted upon printed argument by Mr. Dixon, for
the plainiff in 'error, no counsel appearing for the defendant in
erro".

Mr. Dixon, for plaintiff in error.
We ailege that the court below erred, 1st. In admitting the j dgments of Johnston and Brigham,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

445

Webster v. Reid.

the executions, the levies, the sheriff's returns and sheriff's
deed under them, or either of them, as evidence of title in
Reid, the defendant in error; and
2d. In excluding the evidence offered by Webster, the plaintiff in error, to defeat the alleged title of Reid.
And first, in admitting these judgments of Johnston and
Brigham, and the proceedings under them, as evidence of title
in Reid.
These judgments were rendered under and by virtue of a
law of the territorial legislature of Iowa, passed the 25th of
January, 1839.
Admitting for the present the entire validity and constitutionality of the above law, yet Reid, in order to avail himself
of it, and establish a valid, title under it, must show a strict
compliance with all its provisions. The affirmative rests with
him. It being a statute conferring a special and extraordinary
-remedy, such a one as is unknown to the common law, no
presumption or intendment will be made in favor of a judgment acquired under it, but the party claiming must show that
he has conformed to its enactments.
And whether the court rendering these judgments was one
of special or of general jurisdiction is immaterial; the legal
principle and the rhason remain the same. If the remedy is
summary and unusual in its character a compliande with the
statute must be affirmatively shown, in whatever court that
remedy is sought to be enforced. The court acquires jurisdiction in this case by virtue of the statute alone; without it the
court would be powerless; and to justify its action there must
be affirmative evidence of a substantial compliance with the
requisition of the law from the inception of the suit to is consummation. This principle of law is well established, and
but few authorities are necessary to support it. See 3 Phil. &
Cowen on Evidence, 946, 987, 988, 989, 1016, and cases there
cited; 6 Wheat. 49.
In Massachusetts, it is stated, wheie a statute gives a new
power, and at the same time provides .the means of executing it, those who claim the power can execute it in no other
way. Andover and Medford Turnpike Co. v. Gould, 6 Mass.
40. See also 14 Mass. 286 ;, 1 Black. 39. And where a summary remedy is given by statute, those who wish to avail themselves of it must be confined strictly to its provisions, and shall
take nothing by intendment. Logwood v. Huntsville, Minor,
23; Childress v. McGehee, Ib. 131; Crawford v. State, lb. 143;
Yancy v. Hankins, Ib. 171. And as to the same doctrine, see
1 Maos. 103; 2 Yerg. 486, 493; 10 Wend. 75.
And where a court of general jurisdiction has special auVOL. 'XI.

38

446

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. teid.

thority conferred upon it by statute, it is quoad hoc an inferior
or limited court. 3 Phil. & Cowen on Evidence, 946, cites 6,
Wheat. 119; 12 Wend. 9, 11.
In Denning v. Corwin, 11 Wend. 647, there was a judg"ment in partition; and because it did not appear by the record
that the parties were before the court, or shown to the court
that the owners were unknown, it was held to be void. The
court in this case was one of general jurisdiction.
In Kentucky the court say that statutes authorizing proceedings against absent defendants and unknown heirs upon
constructive notice by publication, must be strictly pursued.
Brown v. Wood, 6 J. J. Marsh. 11, 14, 29, 30, 193, 197.
In this court the same principles have been fully sustained.
Stead's Executors v. Course, 4 Cranch, 403. The principle
is laid down, that a collector in the sale of land must act
in conformity with the law, and the purchaser is bound to nquire whether he has so acted.
Williams et al. v. Peyton's Lessee, 4 Wheat. 77. It is said
that in all cases of a naked power not coupled with an interest, the law requires that every prerequisite to the exercise of
that power must precede its exercise; and in the same case,
in speaking of publications, the court say, " The purchaser
ought to preserve these gazettes, and the proof that these pub.
lications were made."
And in Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheat. 119, the court proceeded to say: "Previous to an order for a sale of land, and
subsequent to the report' of the sheriff, certain publications
are to be made,, in the manner and form prescribed by the act.
These publications are indispensable preliminaries to the order
of sale. They do npt appear to have been made. The judg.
ment against the land was given at the January term, 1802, on
motion, without its appearing, by recital or otherwise, that the
requisites of the law in this respect had been complied with,
and that the'tax still remained unpaid. We think this ought
to have appeared on the record. The argument is, that the
judgment for these errors in the proceedings of the county
court may be voidable, but is not void; that until it be reversed, it is capable of supporting those subsequent proceedings
which were founded on it.
"We think otherwise. In summary proceedings, where a
court exercises an extraordinary power under a special statute
prescribing its course, we think that course ought to be exactly
observed, and those facts especially which give jurisdiction
ought to appear in order to show that its proceedingr are coran
jdice." See also to same point, Ronkendorff v. Taylor's Lesee, 4-Peters, 359.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

447

Webster v. Reid.

In -Bloom v. Burdick, 1 Hill, (N. Y.) 141, the court bay that,
"in every form in which the question has arisen, it has been held,
that a statute authority by which a man may be deprived of
his estate must be strictly pursued." The same doctrine will
be found in Rea v. McEachron, 13 Wend. 465; Atkins v. Kinnan, 20 Wend. 241; and in Jackson v. Shepard, 7 Cowen, 88,
as cited in 1 Hill, supra.
In Jackson v. Esty, 7 Wend. 148, C. J. Savage says: "It is
a cardinal principle, that a man shall not be divested of his
property but by his own acts, or the operation of law; and
where proceedings are instituted to change the title to real
estate by operation of law, the requirement 9f the law under
which the proceedings are had must be strictly pursued." And
11when laws are to be taken under a statute authority, in derogation of the common law, every requisite of the statute having the semblance of benefit to the owner must be strictly com'plied with." Sharp v. Johnson, 4 Hill, (N. Y.) 99; Atkins v.
Kin nan, 20 Wend. 241.
In the case in 1 Hill, the decision of the ourt in Denning v.
Corwin, 11 Wend. 647, is restricted to the. facts before the
court. The broad doctrine, that the judgment of a sugerior
court is void if the record do not show jurisdiction, is denied;
but it is not denied that the judgment of a superior court in
summary proceedings, where it exercises an extraordinary power under a special statute prescribing its course, is void, if the
record do not show jurisdiction. See Foot v. Stevens,, 17
Wend. 483, and Hart v. Seixas, 21 Wend. 40.
-Can there be a doubt of this being a law giving a special
and extraordinary remedy? Does it not conflict with the
modes of judicial procedure known to the common law? Let
us examine its peculiar provisions for a moment. It isr made
for "the benefit of three persons alone, and none others; it is
passed to authorize the collection of accounts accruing by
virtue of a law of doubtful constitutionality, without showing
any special necessity for legislative interference; it waives all
personal service of notice upon the defendants, and substitutes
constructive notice by publication; it authorizes suit against
a something by the designation of the "Owners of the Halfbreed Lands in Lee County," and not against any individual by
name; it allows interest upon its judgments at the rate of
twelve per cent. per annum, when six per cent. was" the established rate. See Laws of Iowa (1839), p. 276. It gives to
the commissioners their expenses in addition to their :per diem
allowance, while no expenses were allowed them by the act
establishing the commission; it then composedly sets at deftance the Constitution of the United States, and the Ordinance

448

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

of 1787, by prohibiting the trial by jury, and in conclusion,
with an effiontery only surpassed by its absurdity, requires the
court to give to it a "libera construction."
We think, then, we are correct in pronouncing it a special
and extraordinary statute; remarkable for the modest learning and critical sagacity it displays in constitutional and common law jurisprudence; and still more remarkable for the nice
sense of justice it manifests to extend exact and even-handed
justice to the citizen. Surely the poet was rapt in prophetic vision when he exclaimed, "A little learning is a dangerous thing."
We now contend that it was necessary for Reid, in order to
recover under this law, to have shown, 1st The existence of a.corporation, association, or company,
legally constituted, and clothed with authority to sue and be
sued by the designation of' the "Owners of the Half-breed
Lands lying in Lee County."
2d. That such company were the owners of the land in
controversy, or that Webster, or some one under whom he
claimed, was in fact an associate or member of such company,
and bound by its acts.
3d. That eight weeks' notice of such suit was published in
the Iowa Territorial Gaz.ette; and
4th. That the trial took place before the Lee County District Court, and not before a jury.
Now it appears from the bills of exceptibns, that not one of
these things was shown or ip proof on the trial of this cause,
and that the recovery'was had upon the production of the
judgments alone.
In this case Reid recovered by virtue of judgments against
"Owners of Half-breed Lands," &c. This is not the name
of an individual.' It is not a name known to the law, except
as an incorporation. There ought to have been an averment and proof of the existence of such a corporation. Louisville Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 Howard, 497. See also
Williams v. Bank of Michigan, 7 Wend. 540; Welland Canal
Co. v. Hathaway, 8 Wend. 480. In Portsmouth Livery Co. v.
Watson, 10 Mass. 91, it is said that the existence of private
incorporations, established by the laws of Massachusetts, and
that of all corporations established by the laws of other States,
must be proved as a'fact.
But again, the fact of the defendants being -denominated
"Owners," &c., did not, per se, constitute them" owners, nor
confer any title to the farm in litigation upon them, notwithstanding it might be situated within the bojndaries of the Halfbreed tract. It was, therefore, indispensable either -to have

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

449

Webster v. Reid.

shown title in those " Owners," deduced from some common
source, or to have connected Webster with the company, by
the name of " Owners," &c. Neither was done; and we conceive this to be fatal to Reid's recovery. A special statute, incorporating certain persons for purposes of private advantage
or emolument, does not bind (say the courts) any person
named therein, unless he consent thereto. Ellis v. Marshall,
2 Mass. 269; Little v. Frost, 3 lb. 106, 116. And in Beatty v.
Lessee of Knowles, 4 Peters, 167, it is decided that a private
act of incorporation cannot affect the rights of individuals who
do not assent to it; and that in this respect it is considered in
the light of a contract, is a position too clear to admit of controversy. How, then, are we to be bound, or our rights affected,
by a judgment against a company, the existence of which is
not proved, in whom no title is shown, and as to whom we are
strangers ?
We were in possession of the property, and had been in possession for several years, and possession is primdfacie evidence
of title and ownership. Adams on Eject. 32 and notes; lb. 319,
note 2; Jackson v. Hillsborough, I Dev. & Batt. 177. And the
law will never construe a possession tortuous, except from necessity; but will consider every possession lawful, the commencement and continuance of which are not proved to be
wrongful. 5 Cond. R. 242. Such being the presumption
of law, what evidence is introduced by Reid to destroy that
presumption? The " Owners," &c. are not proved ever to
have been in possession, nor ever to have held or claimed any
title. What semblance of right or virtue, then, is there in these
judgments, unaided by other proof, that we should be dispossessed of our property, and deprived of our home. We humbly conceive there is none. We have no connection with these
assumed "Owners," &c. We claim by distinct title; and unless Reid shows their legal existence, and title in-them from
some common source, or connects us with them, he cannot recover from us, or affect our interests.
It was also necessary for Reid to have shown on the trial,
that there was eight weeks' notice of the-commencement of
these suits published in the Iowa Territorial Gazette, previously to the entry of the'judgments. This is a distinct and substantive requirement-f the liw. Without such published notice, the court had no power to reiader judgment. It was indispensable to jurisdiction. Itis not prefenddd that any -uch
proof was offered, and can it be said that this was not indispensable? Here the law, disp6nses with all-personal service;
no human being, no legal body, is required to be notified according to the modfe pointed out by the common law, by rea38* ,

450

SUPREME

C0FRT.

Webster v. Reid.

son, and by common justice. Constructive notice is substituted. -A mere publication for a short period of time, addressed
to an unknown body, is declared to be sufficient. Can it be
that it is not necessary to prove this publication, as preliminary
to the introduction of the judgments in evidence? Is the principle, consecrated by the venerable system of the common law,
and incorporated into our constitutions, that no person shall
be deprived of his property unless by due process of law, to be
thus trifled with and frittered away ? This court has always
appreciated and held sacred this right of the citizen to due notice of judicial proceedings against him; and it affords us
pleasure to quote its bold and eloquent language. In Shriver's
Lessee v. Lynn et al., 2 Howard, 60, the court say, "No court,
however great ms.y be its dignity, can arrogate to itself the
power of disposing of real estate without, the forms of law. It
must obtain jurisdiction of the thing in a legal mode. A decree without notice would be treated as a nullity."
And whenever original jurisdiction is exercised, " It is admitted that the service of process or notice is necessary to enable a court to exercise jurisdiction in a case; and if jurisdiction
be taken where there has been no service of process or notice,
the proceeding is a nullity. It is not- only voidable, but it is
absolutely void." Lessee of Walden v. Craig's Heirs et al.,
14 Peters, 154.
In Hollingsworth v.'Barbour et al., 4 Peters, 475, the court
say, "It is an acknowledged general .principle, that judgments
and decrees are binding only upon parties and privies. The
reason of the rule is founded in the immutable principles of
natural justice, that no man's rights should be prejudiced by
the judgment or decree of a court, without an opportunity of
defending the right."
Now what opportunity does it appear that we have had to
defend our right? None whatever.
There are many decisions showing the necessity of publication, and proof thereof, in order to confer jurisdiction.
In Denning v. Corwin, 11 Wend. 647, above cited, the court
state; that the New York statute of partition gives the court no
jurisdiction to take any step against unknown owners until no.
tice has been published according to the stptute, and this must
appear by the record.
It is not sufficient that an order of publication is had in a
chancery cadie; proof of the publication must also be made.
4 Equity Dig. 488, § 20, cites 4 Stew. .& Port. 84.
If a decree be taken by publication against an absent defendant, the statements in the bill are not evidence in any collateral contest. 3 Equity. Dig. 389, § 2.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

451

Webster v. Reid.

A printer's certificate of publication of an order against nonresidents must be copied in the record. A statement that it
was filed is insufficient to show that the defendant has proper
notice. 3 Equity Dig. .525, § 2, cites 3 J. J. Marsh. 105.
A recital in a decree of the publication of the order against
an absent defendant does not prove it, but the dvidence must
be filed. 3 Equity Dig. 552, § 3; 4 Monroe, 544.
And in I McLean, 321, it is decided that facts must be stated
to enable the court to judge. A statement by the auditor, that
land was legally advertised and sold, cannot be received as evidence; facts must be stated. In Parker v. Rule's Lessee,
9 Cranch, 64, cited in 4 Cond. R. 397, a sale was declared to
be invalid because it did not appear in evidence that the publications required by the ninth section of the act had been
made; the court inferred that they had not been made, and
considcred the case as if proof of the negative had been given
by the plaintiff in ejectment. The same point was decided in
4 Cond. R. 397.
Other decisions might be introduced, but the above abundantly establish the doctrine for which we contend: that the
defendant must have the notice required by law; and when
the statute prescribes a kind of notice differing from the common law mode, a compliance with such statute must be affirmatively shown. If the publication pointed out by law was
necessary to jurisdiction, and the court cannot presume the
fact of publication unless from proof, then the omission of such
proof on the trial by Reid is equivalent, as far as we are interested, to an established want of jurisdiction in the court pronouncing these judgments. Jurisdiction is defined to be the
power to hear and determine; this power can only be brought
into exercise by publication; there is no evidence of publication in this case, and us it cannot be presumed, the consequence is obvious, that these judgments were void acts, without validity, and incapable of conferring powers or rights.
For wherever a court acts without jurisdiction, its decrees,
judgments, and proceedings are absolute nullities, powerless as
evidence tbr any purpose whatever. "They are not voidable,
but simply void, and form no bar to a recovery sought, even
prior to a reversal in opposition to them. They constitute no
justification; and all persons concerned in executing such
judgments or sentences are considered in law trespassers.
This distinction runs through all the cases on the subject, and
it proves that the jurisdiction of any court exercising authority
over a subject may be inquired into in every other court where
the proceedings of the former ore relied on, and brought before
the latter by the party claiming the benefit of such proceed-

452

SUPREME CO.URT.
Webster v. Reid.

ings." Ellott et al. v. Peirsol et al., 1 Peters, 340. See also
5 Cond. R. 758; 2 McLean, 477; 13 Peters, 511; and especially, Lessee of Hickey et al. v. Stewart et al., 3 Howard, 762,
where the whole doctrine is well laid down.
The judgments ought not to have been admitted in evidence on the trial in this cause, for the further reason, that
upon their face they appear to have been respectively founded
upon the report of an auditor appointed by the court, which
report the court merely confirmed. The examination of witnesses and vouchers, and the ascertainment of the amount of
indebtedness, were all performed by the auditor, and not by the
court. The auditor does not return th facts and evidence upon which his report is based, and from which his conclusions
are drawn, so that the court might exercise a judicial judgment
over it, but he simply specifies the amount he finds to be due,
and upon which finding and statement the court enters up
judgment. Now the law requires the trial to take place before
the court. It gives no power of substitution to the judge. It
nowhere speaks of an auditor or any other auxiliary officer
acting in the matter. It conferred power upon the judge
alone; and it is well settled, that judicial power cannot be delegated unless expressly authorized by law. The legislature
enacting this law demonstrate their unbounded confidence in.
the judge by abolishing the trial by-jury, and at the same ime
clothing him with magisterial authority over the whole matter
in the nature of a personal and judicial trust. The recitals in
the judgments themselves show that he did not exercise any
judgment in the matter. How could he have done so, when
he placed his judgment and, his conscience in 'the keeping of
another ? To say the least, there was a great want of ordinary prudence and circumspection on the part of the court, if
-there was not a palpable apd inexcusable violation of duty.
It is enough that we are deprived of a jury, without also being deprived of a judge, in pronouncing these judgments which
are now brought forward under color of law to filch from us
the hard earnings of years of toil. For all practical purposes,
the auditor, and not the court, pronounced these judgments.
The above reasoning is predicated of the supposition, that
the -act under which those judgments were rendered was a
valid and constitutional law. This we deny. We feel confident in affirming that the act never had a valid existence. A
legal judgment never could be recovered under it. Having no
power, it could confer no power. No judicial tribunal could
confirm or transmit any rights through its instrumentality. It
was utterly powerless for any valid purpose whatever. And
our reasons are -

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

45S

Webster v. Reid.
1st. It was made in subversion of principles of common
right, and therefore void. It attempts to do away with the
necessity of personal service of process in the commenqement
of actions. Tihis, as we have shown, would endanger the
safety of persons and property. It aims to give to three persons extraordinary and additional privileges and remedies in
the collection of their debts, which are not given or extended
to others. It is thus exclusive, operates partially, and is against
common right. It directly gives to them a rate of interest up.
on their judgments double what the laws of Iowa give to any
other citizen. No reason is assigned, and no necessity shown
to exist, for awarding such a preference; and this is also
against common right Now the cases say that statutes
passed against the plain and obvious principles of common
right and common reason are null and void, so far as they are
calculated to operate against these principles. Ham v. MacClaws, 1 Bay, 93, and see Morrison v. Barksdale, Harper,
101.
2d. It is in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, of the Ordinance of 1787, and of the organic law of
1838, establishing the territorial government of Iowa.
The Constitution of the United States guaranties the right
of trial by jury. Amendment to Constitution, Article 7.
The Ordinance of 1787, organizing the Northwestern Ter.
ritory, art. 2, secures to its inhabitants the trial by j1y, that
all judicial proceedings shall be according to the course. of the
common law, and that no man shall be deprived of his property but by the judgment of his peeis, or the law of the land.
And the organic law of 1838, sect. 12, extends to the inhabitaijts of Iowa the rights, privileges, and immunities previously grapthd and secured to the inhabitants of Wisconsin,
and of course includes the above provisions in the Ordinance
of 1787.
The fifth section of the law in question provides, "that the
trial of said suit, or suits, shall be before the court, and not a
jury.'
Now, it wbuld appear to be sufficient, to place these constitutional and organic restrictions upon the territorial 'legislature
in juxtaposition with the above legislative provision, in order
to demonstrate their absolutely irreconcilable character. The
statement itself would seem to involve an inconsistency so
glaring, that all reasoning upon it would be superfluous. But
as it is a constitutional inquiry, involving the validity of legislative enactment, and in its determination affecting deeply
tfie interests and rights of the citizen, it may not be improper
to examine briefly the laws and the authorities on the subject;

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

for whatever jeopardizes for a moment the integrity of the trial
by jury ought to be strictly scrutinized and condemned.
" The impartial administration of justice," says an eminent
jurist, "which secures both our persons and our properties, is
the great end of civil society; and it is the most transcendent
privilege which dny subject can enjoy, or wish for, that he cannot be affected either in his property, his liberty, or his person,
but by the unanimous consent of twelve of his neighbors and
equals." This was written nearly a century ago, and is equally true now as then. The right is as sacredly* cherished and
vigilantly guarded as ever. "It is enthroned in the hearts of
the people, it is enshrined in the sanctuary of the Constitution,
and as well might the frantic suicide hope that the act which
destroys his miserable body should extinguish his eternal soul,"
as any individual or body of men expect with impunity to attack or overthrow this glory of the law and invaluable privilege
of the citizen. See Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Peters, 446.
We suppose it will not be controverted, that territorial legislatures are restricted in the exercise of legislative power to
such as is expressly given them by the law of Congress organizing the territorial government. 'That law constitutes their
charter; under it they act, and by virtue of it alone are their
acts valid. Judge Story says: " As the general government
possesses the right to acquire territoy, either by conquest or by
treaty, it would seem to follow, as an inevitable consequence,
that it possesses the power to govern what it has so acquired.
The territory does not, when so acquired, become entitled to
self-government, and is not subject to the jurisdiction of any
State. It must consequently be under the dominiorn and jurisdiction of the Union, or it would be without any government
at all." 3 Story on Const. 193, 194; American Ins. Co. v.
Canter, 1 Peters, 511.
And again: " What shall be the form of government established in the territories depends exclusively upon the discretion of Congress. Having a right to erect a territorial governmerit, thcy may confer on it such powers, legislative, judicial,
and executive, as they deem best." See 3 Story on Const.
195.
Territories are, then, nothing but political corporation, exe'cising such powers alone as are conferred by the charter of
incorporation, or act organizing them We examine this charter or act, and find that the Ordinance of 1787 is adopted as a
part of it; and in that Ordinance are contained the restrictive
enactments above enumerated. We suppose, also, that in the
construction *ofthese provisions we must refer to the expositions and decisions of the common law, whexein these provisions

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Webster v. Reid.

455

have received an appropriate and determinate signification.
When we adopt 'the common law, or portions of it, we also
adopt the established adjudications upon them. It may be
true that the common law of England is not, in all respects, to
be received as the law of America. This court has said, "Our
ancestors brought with them its general principles, and claimed
it as their birthright; but they brought with them and adopted
only that portion which was applicable to theix situation."
Van Ness v. Packard, 2 Peters, 144.
The words "trial by jury" and "ojudgment of his peers"
would seem to be nearly equivalent in meaning. A trial by a
jury is "a trial by twelve of the paty's peers" ; and the judgment of his peers means, "trial by a jury of twelve men, according to the course of the common law." 2 Kent's Com.
42, 13, note b.
The clause "law of the land" signifies, that statutes which
would deprive a citizen of the rights of person or property
without a regular trial, according to the course and usage of
the common law, would not be the law of the land in the
sense of the ordinance. See Hoke v. Henderson, 4 Dev. (N.
C.) 15.
Ili Taylor v. Porter, 4 Hill (N. Y.), we have the same doctrine. " The words ' by the law of the land,'" say the court
"do not mean a statute passed for the purpose of working the
wrong. That construction would render the restriction absolutely nugatory, and turn this part of the Constitution into
mere nonsense."
" By -the law of the land," says Lord Coke (2.Inst. 45-50),
"iii meant 'by the due course and process of law."' It does
not mean a mere act of the legislature, for such a construction would remove all limitation on legislative authority, and
destroy the restrictive power of the above constitutional provisions. As originally used in Magna Charta, ch. 29, it was
understood t6 mean due process of law. See 2 Kent's Com.
13, note b, and In the Matter of John and Cherry Streets, 19
Wend. 659. And Justice Story says, the clause "1by law of the
land "1meaneth due process of law, and which in effect affirms
the right of trial according to the process and proceeding of
the common law. ,3 Story on Const. 661. See also 1 Tucker's Black. Com., App. 304, 305.
The ..ords, "of judicial proceedings according to the course
of the common law," would appear to be, not only in affirmation of the security afforded by the provision "the law of the
land," but in extension of it to all judicial proceedings in the
progress of litigation, and which are known to the common law.
The words "common law," as used in the Constitution,.

456

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

have received a judicial interpretation. The phrase "is used
in contradistinction to equity, and admiralty, and maritime
jurisprudence. It means not merely suits which the common
law recognized among its old and settled -proceedings, but suits
ii which legal rights were to be ascertained and determined, in
contradistinction to those where equitable rights alone were
recognized and eqcuitable remedies were administered; or
where, as in the admiralty, a mixture of public law, and maritime law, and equity, was often found in the same suitY "In
a just sense" (the seventh amendment of the Constitution) "the
.amendment then may well be construed to embrace all suits
which are not of equity and admiralty jurisdiction, whatever
may be the peculiar form which they may assume to settle
legal rights." Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Peters, 446, 447.
(The counsel then proceeded to argue that this statute was
against the organic law of Iowa, and the second article of the
Ordinance of 1787; and that if the law was void, the judgments
under it were equally so. He then argued that jurisdiction over
this Indian reservation remained in Congress, which had never
transferred it to the Territory; that the defendant below had a
right to show an outstanding title, and also to show fraud in
the original judgments and subsequent proceedings therein.
The reporter has already allotted a large space to the argument, and regrets that he cannot insert the views of the count.
sel upon these points.)
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Iowa.
A judgment was-obtained by the defendant, Reid, against
the plaintiff in error, Webster, at May term, 1845, in the District Court of Lee Cdunty, Iowa Territory, for the recovery of a
quarter-section of land; which judgment was removed by writ
of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory; and afterwards, at January term, 1846, the judgment of the District
Court was affirmed.
On the 3d of March, 1845, an act was passed by Congress,
to admit the State of Iowa into the Union. By the fifth section of that act, it was made a fundamental condition to the
-admission of the State, that certain provisions of the act should
be " assented to by a majority of the qualified electors at their
township elections," on which the President was required, by
proclamation, to announce the admission of the State into the
Union.
The judgment in this case was rendered by the territorial.
court, before the State of Iowa had been admitted. The writ

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

457

Webster v. Reid.

of error from that court was directed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and the record has been certified in obedience to
it by the Supreme Court of the State, where, it seems, the
records of the territorial Supreme Court are deposited.
As this proceeding was commenced and consummated in the
territorial courts, over which this court can properly exercise a
revisory jurisdiction, the District Court of the United States
would have been a more appropriate deposit for the record.
But, under the circumstances, this is not considered material
to a revision of the proceedings, no mandate being required to
give effect to the judgment of this court.
The subject-matter being clearly within our jurisdiction, and
having possession of the record, we see no objection to an examination of the case. This court held in Gelston v. Hoyt, 3
Wheat. 246, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, giving appellate jurisdiction to this court from the final
judgment of the highest State court, "the writ of error may
be directed to any court in which the record and judgment on
which it is to act may be found, and if the record has been
remitted by the highest court and to another court of the State,
it may be brought by the writ of error from that court." In
principle, that case is analogous to the one under consideration.
If the record contain the judgment duly certified, over which
we can exercise jurisdiction, it is not essential that it should be
certified by the court rendering the judgment.
The questions in the case arise on exceptions taken to the
rulings of the court at the trial.
To sustain the plaintiff's title, two judgments and executions
thereon, with the sheriff's return, were offered in evidence. The
first in behalf of Edward Johnston v. "The Owners of Halfbreed Lands lying in Lee County," Iowa Territory, for twelve
hundred and ninety dollars, at August term, 1839; the other
in behalf of David Brigham v. the same defendants, for the sum
of eight hundred and eighteen dollars, at the same term. Executions having been issued on these judgments, the sheriff returned on both of them that he had levied "on the Half-breed
Sac and Fox reservation in 1iee County, Ibwa Territory, corntionly called the Half-breed tract"; and had advertised and
sold the same for the sum of twenty-eight hundred and eightyfour dollars, sixty-six cents.
In pursuance of this sale, the sheriff made to Hugh T. Reid,
the purchaser, a deed for the lands levied on, containing one
hundred and nineteen thousand acres, more or less.
The above proceeding took place under a law of the territorial legislature of Iowa, passed the 25th of January, 1839. By
the first section of that law, "An Act for the partition of the
VOL. Xi.

39

458

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Rei'd.

Half-breed lands, and for other- purposes,"~ and an act supplernentary thereto, -were repealed. The preamble to the repealed
act expresses its object, -"1 Whereas it is expedient, in order to
the settlement of that tract of land lying betwebn the Mississippi and Des Moines Rivers, commonly called the Half-breed
lands, which was reserved for the Half-breeds of the Sac and
Fox tribes of Indians, by treaty made at ,Washington city,.
between the United States and those tribes, on the 4th of
August, 1824, which was released to said Half-breeds, with
power to convey their rights, &c., by act of Congress, approved
the 30th of Jurre,-1834, that the validity of the titles. of the
complainants should be determined, and partition of said lands
among those having claims should be made, or a sale thereof
for the benefit of such valid claimants."
The second section of the repealing act provided, that the
several commissioners by and under the act repealed, who were
authorized to sit and take testimony, &c. under said act, " m ay
immediately, or as soon as convenient, commence actions before the District Court of Lee County, for their several accounts
against the owners of the said 'Half-breed lands'; and give
eight weeks' notice in the Iowa Territorial Gazette to said
owners of such lands; and the judge of said District Court,
upon the trial of said suits before it at its next term, shall,
if said accounts are deemed correct, order judgment for the
amount and costs to be entered up against said owners, and
said judgment shall be a lien on said lands," &c.
The third section declares, "The words 'Owners of the Halfbreed LLnds lying in Lee County,' shall be a sufficient designation and specification of the defendants in said suits."
By the fifth section it was provided, that "the trial of said
suits shall be before the court, and not a jury; and this act
shall receive a liberal construction, such as will carry out the
spirit and intention thereof."
The deed from the sheriff to Reid, and also the judgment
and executions on which it was founded, having been given in
evidence, though objected to by'Webster, he offered to prove
to the jury that the judgments, executions, sheriff's sale, and
sheriff's deed were all procured by fraud of the plaintiff; and
others, and that the whole title. of the plaintiff was founded
upon fraud and fiction; to which the plaintiff objected, and the
court refused to admit the evidence.
The defendant then offered evidence condubing to prove, that
Na-ma-tau-pas, under whom he claimed the land, was a Halfbreed of the Sac Indians, accompanied by a deed from him for
the premised in controversy, to John Bond, dated'the 3d of
Margh, 1837; and also a deed from Bond to Theophilus Bal-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

459

Webster v. Reid.

lard for the same land, dated the 20th of March in the same
year; and also a deed from Bullard to Webster for the same
land, dated the 7th of April, 1838; all of which deeds were
duly acknowledged; but the plaintiff objected to said deeds
being admitted as evidence, and the court sustained the objection.
The defendant then offered to prove that he entered into the
possession of the premises, which were improved, and that he
had occupied them up to the time of the trial. And he then
offered to prove by parol testimony, that no service had ever
been made upon any person in the suits in which the judgments were rendered, under which the sale was made; that
no notice was given by publication of the institution of said
suits; that the plaintiff was the counsel that procured said judgments; that said judgments were rendered upon a fictitious demand, never proved before the auditor; that Webster and the
owners of the Half-breed tract of land, or some of them, Were
prevented from appearing and defending by the fraudulent,
representations of said plaintiff; that the sale was in fact never
made by the sheriff, Taylor; that his return§ were fraudulent
and false; which evidence, being objected to, was overruled by
the court.
Other exceptions were taken, but it is deemed unnecessary
to refer to them.
This was an extraordinary procedure from its commencement. With the view.to produce a settlement of the large
tract of land owned by the Half-breed Indians in the county
of Lee, to settle the Aaims to those lahds, partition them
among the claimants, or ma6e a sale thereof for the benefit of
such claimants, the act of the 16th of January, 1838, containing twenty-four sections, was passed. Thomas S. Wilson,
David Brigham, and Edward Johnston were appointed commissiohners, who were vested with certain powers to carry out
the objects of the act, and who were to receive each six dollars per day for their services. The judgments on which the
land was sold were obtained by two of the commissioners, for
services rendered under the above act. To satisfy these two
claims, the entire tract of tne Half-breeds was sold, containing
119,000 acres.
By the act under which the suits were instituted, no other
designation of the defendants was required than " Owners of
the Half-breed Lands lying in Lee County." These suits were
not a proceeding in rem against the land, but were in personar
against the owners of it. Whether they all resided within the
Territory or not does not appear, nor is it a matter of any
importance., No person is required to answer in a suit on

460

SUPREME COURT.
Webster v. Reid.

whom process has not been served, or whose property has not
been attached. In this case there was no personal notice,
nor an attachment or other proceeding against the land, until
after the judgments. The judgments, therefore, are nullities,
and did not authorize the executions on which the land was
sold.
By the seventh article of the amendments of the Constitution it is declared, " In suits at common law, where the value
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by
jury shall be preserved." The organic law of the Territory of
Iowa, by express provision and by reference, extended the laws
of the United States,'including the Ordinance of 1787, over the
Territory, so far as they are applicable.
The act under which the above proceeding was had prohibited the trial by jury in matters of fact on which the tuits were
founded. In this respect the act was void.
The District Court erred in overruling the evidence offered
by the defendant, to prove fraud in the judgments, executions,
sheriff's sale, and sheriff's deed.
When a judgment is brought collaterally before the court as
evidence, it may. be shown to be void upon its face by a want
of notice to the person against -whom judgment was entered,
or for fraud.
The District Court also erred in overruling the evidence of
title offered by the defendant. The deeds upon their face appeared to have been duly executed; and there was no suggestion that they did not relate to the land in controversy. If no
partition had been made, so that Na-ma-tau-pas could not give
an exclusive title to the land, yet, being proved to be a Halfbreed, he had the power to convey at least his interest in the
land, which gave a right of possession to some extent'to Webster. The deeds showed that he was not a trespasser, and had
a right to defend his possession. The extent of his right of
possession under his deed it is not necessary now to determine.
There was also error in the District Court, in overruling the
evidence offered by the defendant to show that no notice was
given by publication, as the act requires. If jurisdiction could
be exercised under-the act, it was essential to show that all its
rkquisites had been substantially observed. It was necessary
for the plaintiff to prove notice, and negative proof that the
notice was not given, under such circumstantces, could not be
rejected.
For the above reasons, the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Terr'tory, affirming the j udgment of the District Court,
is reversed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

461

Van Buren v. Digges.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the Territory, now State, of
Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that a statement of
this decision be certified to the Supreme Court of Iowa.

WILLIAr

H.VAN ButrEN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILIAx
DiGGEs, UsE OF JOSEPH LIrBEY.

H.

Where a contractor engaged to build a house for a certain sum of money, and the
owner of the house, when sued, offered to prove that there were various omissions
in the work stipulated to be done, and portions of the work were done in a defective manner, not being as well done as contracted for, and filed a bill of particulars
of these omissions and defects by way of set-off, this evidence was admissible.
The old rule, that, where a party shall have been injured, either by a partial failure
of consideration for the contract, or by the non-fulfilment of the contract, or by
breach of warranty, he must be driven to a cross action, has been much relaxed
in later times. The ease of Withers v. Greene (9 Howard, 213 referred to and
reaffirmed.
Where the contract provided that,if the house were not finished by a certain day,
a deduction of ten per cent. fromn the price should be made, and the defendant
offered evidence to prove that this forfeiture was intended by the parties as
liquidated damages, the evidence was properly rejected. It would have been
irregular in the court to go out of the terms of the contract. Unless the
forfeiture had been expressly adopted by the parties as the measure of injury or
compensation, it would have been irregular to receive the evidence where the
inquiry was into the essential justice and fairness of the acts of the parties.
Where the defendant offered to prove that certain work which he, the defendant,
had caused to be done by a third person, was usual and proper, and necessary to
the completion of the house, this evidence was properly rejected. He should have
proved that it came within the contract. So, also, evidence was inadmissible that
the defendant, in presence of the plaintiff, insisted upon its being within the
contract; fur this would have been making the defendant the judge in his own
case.
Mere acquiescence by the contractor in the defendant's causing certain work to be
done by a third person, will not exclude the contractor from the benefit of having
fa,'her time allowed to finish the house. It was not necessary for him to make a
sp~eial agreement that further time should be allowid, in consequence of the
delay caused by this extra work.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States, sitting for the County of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
On the 7th of August, 1844, William H. Digges and
William H. Van Buren entered into a contract in the city of
Washington, as follows: It is hereby agreed, between William Diggesj of the city
39.

