DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

165

D'Arey v. Ketchum et al.

D'ARcY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. MORRIS KETCHUIMI, THOMAS
ROGERS, AND EDWARD BEMENT, COPARTNERS, TRADING UNDER TIM'
NAME AND FiRnI OF KETCHUM, ROGERS, AND BEMENT.

JAMrES

A statute of the State of New York provides, that, where joint debtors are sued and
one is brought into court on process, if judgment shall pass for plaintiff, he shall
have judgment and execution not only against the party brought into court, but
also against otherjoint debtors named in the original process, in the same manner
as if they had all been taken and brought into court by virtue of such process;
but it shall not be lawful to isue or execute any such execution against the body
or against the sole property of any person not brought into court.
Where a judgrhent was givn in New York against two partners, one of whom resided in Louisiana and was never served witi process, and an action was brought
against him in Louisiana upon this judgment, a peremptory exception, in the nature
of a demurrer, that "the judgment sued upon is'not one upon which suit can be
brought against the defendatt in this court," was well founded.
Congress did not intend, by the act of 1790, to declare that ajudgment rendered in
one State against the person of a citizen of another, who had not been served with
process or voluntarily made defence, should have such faith and credit in every
other State aq it had'in the courts of the State in which it was rendered.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit,
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
Mr. Justice McKinley did not sit on the trial of, this cause in
the Circuit Court.
In February, 1849, there were two commercial houses, one
trading under the name f A. H. Gossip & Co. in New York,
and the other under the name of Gossip & Co. in New Orleans.
The firm of A. H. Gossip & Co. consisted of Aurungzebe H.
Gossip and Joseph Calder, and the firm in New Orleans consisted of George H. Gossip and James D'Arcy.
On the 4th of February, 1849,,the New York house drew,
the following bill of exchange upon the New Orleans house,
viz. :
"9$1,461N1 .
New York, 4th February, 1839.
"Four months after date, pay- to our own order fourteen
flundred and sixty-one NI' dollars, value received, and charge
the same to account of
(Signed,)
A. H. Gossip & Co.
157 Water St., New York."
" To Messrs. Gossip & Co.,
St. Charles St., New Orleans. (Accepted.)
"Accepted :
"4Gossip
& Co."
Indorsed:
" A. H. Gossip & Co.
J. STEWART, 5 Platt RV

166

SUPREME COURT.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

This bill appeared to have passed into the hands of Ketchum,
Rogers, and Bement, and not to have been paid at maturity.
In February, 1840, Ketchum, Rogers, and Bement brought an
action in the Superior Court of the City of New York against
the drawers and acceptors of the bill, viz Aurungzebe Ji. Gossip, Joseph Calder, George IL Gossip, and James D'Arcy. The
suit was brought against them jointly, and the declaration contained the money counts, together with a notice that the bill of
exchange would be given in evidence under these counts.
The record did not show that any process was served upon
either of the four defendants. George IL Gossip, a partner in
the New Orleans house, voluntarily appeared. The'record contained a suggestion that 'neither the declaration nor any notice
.of the rule to plead thereto had been served on the defendants Aurungzebe H. Gossip, Joseph Calder, or James D'Arcy.
George H. Gossip pleaded the general issue, and gave notice
of a set-off.
In December, 1846, the cause was called for trial, but George
H. Gossip made default. A jury was impanelled to assess the
damages, who gave the following verdict, viz.: "That the said George I-L Gossip did undertake and promise
in manner and form as the said plaintiffs have above thereof
complained against him, and they assess the damages of the
said plaintiffs, by reason of the non-performance of the said
several promises in the said declaration contained, to the sum
of $1,418.81, besides their costs and charges by them about
their suit in that behalf expended, and for those costs and
charges to six cents.
( Therefore it is considered that the said plaintiffs do recover,
against the said George L Gossip and James D'Arcy, their
damages aforesaid' by the jury aforesaid, in form aforesaid, and
also the sum of $ 52.06, for their said costs and charges by the
said court now here adjudged of increase to the said plaintiffs,
and with their assent; which said damages,. costs, and charges
in the whole amount to $ 1,470.93; and tht said defendants
in mercy, &c.
"Jdgment signed this 25th day of January, 1847.
" THOMAS J. OAKLEY'

The above judgment was rendered against D'Arcy as well
as George H. Gossip, under a statute of the State of New
York, which provides that, "where joint debtors are sued and
one is brought into court on process, he shall answer the plaintiff; and if judgment shall pass for plaintiff, he shall have judgment and execution, not only agaiist the party brought into
court, but also against other. joint debtors named in the original

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

167

D'Arcy v. Ketchum et a..

process, in the same manner as if they had all been taken and
brought into court by virtue of such process; but it shall not
be lawful to issue or execute any such execution against the
body or against the sole property of any person not brought
into court."
Under this judgment against ]'Arcy, Ketchum, Rogers, and
Bement brought a suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana, of the following description. The suit being by petition, the whold of it will be inserted.
"The petition of Morris Ketchum, Thomas Rogers, and Edward Bement, copartners, doing business under the firm of
Ketchum, Rogers, and Bement, humbly shows, that petitioners
are citizens of the State of New York, and that James D'Arcy,
who is a citizen of the State of Louisiana, is indebted unto
petitioners in the sum of $1,418.81, with interest and costs,for this:
"That heretofore, to wit, on or about December, 1846, George
IL Gossip and James D'Arcy, being jointly and severally indebted to petitioners in the aforesaid sum, petitioners recovered in the Superior Court of the State of New York a final
judgment against said George IL Gossip and James lYArcy for
said sum of $ 1,418.81, with costs; which said judgment was
duly and legally obtained, and was and is valid and binding
upon said debtors in the State, of New York, where the same
was rendered as aforesaid. That said Gossip and Company
was a commercial firm composed of said G. H. Gossip and
said Janies D' Arcy; and petitioners show, that in virtue of said
judgment they are entitled to recover of said D'Arcy the whole
sum herein claimed; that he refuses to pay the same, although
amicably requested, to; all of which more fully appears by
reference to the exetnplified record of said judgment and pro.
ceedings, made part hereof.
"Petitioners therefore pray said James D'Arcy be citbd, and
that after due proceedings he be condemned to pay petitioners
$1,418.81 ; $ 52.12 costs, interest at the rate of seven per centum per annum, the legal interest of ihe State of New York,
from February 1, 1840, till paid, and for general relief.
"And as in duty," &c.
To this petition there was attached an exemplification of
the record, with some few irregularities which it is not worth
while to specify.
D'Arcy appeared and filed the following exceptions and
answer: " The defendant in the above suit, a citizen of the State of
Louisiana, residing in New Orleans, now comes and excqpts

168

SUPREME COURT.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum et-aL

to plaintiffs' petition filed in said suit, that the same is not addressed to any court of the United States of America, and is
therefore informal and should be dismissed.
." 2d. The defendant excepts, that the judgment sued upon is
iot one upon which suit can be brought against thedefendant
in this court.
"3d. The defendant excepts to said judgment, that it does
not follow the verdict; that the same is not signed, and is not
final; and that the same, with the record of proceedings in the
suit in which the same was rendered, is not properly certified,
as required by law; and the said record is upon its face incomplete.
"4th. The defendant pleads prescription.
a If the above exceptions and plea are overruled, the defendant for answer says, that he does not owe the plaintiffs in
manner and form as set forth by them; that he is in no way
indebted to them; and prays that he may have judgment
thereof in his favor, and that said plaintiffs be condemned to
pay all costs."
In May, 1848, these exceptions were argued, and the Circuit
Court (Mr. Justice McKinley being absent) overruled the exceptions and gave the following judgment a This cause having been argued, and submitted to the court
on the 8th instant, and the court having maturely considered
the same under the law and the evidence, it is ordered, ad-'
judged, and decreed, that there be final jgdgment rendered
herein in favor of the plaintiffs, Ketchum, Rogers, and Bement,
and against the defendant, James D'Arcy, for the sum of
$1,418.81, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per centurn per annum, from the 1st day of February, 1840, till paid,
$52.12 costs of suit in New York and the costs of this suit
to be taxed.
"Judgment rendered May 17, 1849[J
"Signed June 17, 1848.
US. Tudge."1
A motion was irade for a new trial, but it was overruled.
]YArcy then sued out a writ of error, and brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by Mr.. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and 3t.
.Ketchvz,, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, made the following points.
The distinction frequently expressed ty this court between
iudgments that are erroneous and subject to reversal on error,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

169

D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

and those which are essentially defective and void, will not be
impugned or controverted; but it is submitted that the New
*York judgment in this case, and which constitutes the sole
foundation of the present suit, is so essentially defective. that
it cannot give support to this judgment.
1. It is not sufficiently authenticated as the law requires, to
entitle it to admission in evidence.
The foundation of the existing law on this subject will be
found in the Constitution, Art. IV. § 1, which provides that
"full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public
acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other State.
And the Congress may, by general laws, prescribe the manner
in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall'be proved,
and the effect thereof."
Congress, by the act of May 26, 1790 (1 Statutes at Large,
192, c. 11), did prescribe this mode of authentication, and declare that the records and judicial proceedings of the courts
of any State shall be proved or admitted in any other court
within the United States, by the attestation of the clerk and
the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together with
a certificate of the judge, &c., that the said attestation is in'
due form. In this case there is no seal of court attached.
In the United States zY.Auredy, 11 Wheat. 407, this- court
held that no other or further formality is required than the annexation of the seal; the act of Congress requires no other
authentication. That was the case of a legislative proceeding.
In Craig v. Brown, 1 Pet. C. C. 352, where the question
arose as to the authentication of a judicial proceeding, it was
held that, whenever the court whose record is certified has no
seal, this fact should appear in the certificate of the clerk or in
that of the judge, and where there is a seal, that should be appended. The record in this case shows that the court has
a seal, yet none appears on the paper. This, the proper and
only legal authentication of a judicial record, is omitted.
2. The judgment does not appear to have been signed by
a judge of the Superior Court. In his attestation the chief justice calls himself by his appropriate title; but the judgment
itself is signed Thomas J. Oakley, without any designation of
office.
3. From the record it is apparent, not only that D'Arcy
never was served with process, or in any manner notified of the
proceeding, but it fully appears that there was no attempt to
serve him with process, for none was ever issued; none to serve
him with a copy of the declaration, for the reason assigned,
his absence from the jurisdiction of the court; no proceeding
against him by public notificatiQn or otherwise, to inform him
VOL. XI.
16

170

SUPREME COURT.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

of the pendency of the suit; no averment of any default warranting a judgment in his absence.
In Mayhew v. Thatcher, 6 Wheat. 129, this court held that.
the record of a judgment in a State court is conclusive, although it appears the suit was commenced by attachment,
when the defendant appeared and made defence.
In Hollingsworth v. Barbour, 4 Peters, 466, this court cited
5 Johns. 37,41; 3 Wils. 297; 9 East, 192; 8 Johns. 86,90; and
affirmed the law as declared by Judge Trimble on the circuit,
that, "by the general law of the land, no court is authorized to
render a judgment or decree against any one, or his estate, until -after due notice by service of process to appear and defend.
This principle is dictated by natural justice, and is only to be
departed from in cases expressly warranted by law and excepted out of the general rule." See also p. 475.
'The objections here urged were distinctly presented to the
Circuit Court and overruled.
The proceedings in the Circuit Court are scarcely less irregalar and extraordinary.
I. The petition is addressed to the court by a name unknown
to the law.
2.. The suit is instituted against D'Arcy along, upon a joint
judgment against two, without assigning any reason for omitting the only party who had appeared in the New York court,
and who alone appears to be party to the proceedings and verdict in-hat court.
3. In setting out that judgment, the petitioners have miscalled the court in which it is said to have been rendered. It
is called the Superior Court of the State of New York. In
declarations it is essential that the plaintiff should set out the
ground-of his action With the most rigid particularity. In suits
upon judgments this is especially required. Any variance is
fatal. In. Coy v. Hymns, 2 Str. 1171, plaintiff declared upon
a judgment for X 388 Os. ld. as a judgment for z£ 388, and
the variance was held fatal. In Pope v. Foster, 4 T. R. 590,
which was an action for a malicious prosecution, it was held
that an averment in the declaration of the day of trial must
exactly agree with the record to be produced to support it.
On account of a variance as to the day, Lord Kenyon nonsuited plaintiff, and the court refused a rule to set asidb the
nonsuit, In Green v. Bennett, 1 T. R. 656, an action against
defendant for negligence as attorney, the returja of the writ as
laid in the declaration varied from that in the record, and it
was held fatal. In Purcell v. Macnamara, 9 East, 160, the
case of Pope v. Foster was overruled, on the single ground
that the day constituted no part of the description of the judg-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

171

D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

ment; had it been so laid, the variance would have been fatal.
The case of Green v. Bennett is, however, approved.
4. The judgment in the Circuit Court does not correspond
with the New York judgment, on which suit is brought. The
petition prays that defendant be condemned to pay $ 1,418.81,
$ 52.12 costs, with interest at the rate of seven per cent., the legal interest of New York, from February 1,1840, till paid. •The
New York judgment is for $ 1,470.93, including costs, without
any express allowance of interest, and consequently not bearing interest anterior to the date of the judgment, viz. 25th
January, 1847. The judgment of the Circuit Court is for
$ 1,418.81, with interest at seven per cent. from the 1st of February, 1840, beside the costs of both suits, thus allowing interest, according to the New York rate, for about seven years
before any was due under the New York judgment.
Even if interest could be allowed from a date anterior to the
judgment, which, under the verdict in New York,'clearly could
not be done, yet if that suit was infact brought on the bill of
exchange, as it purports to be, that, being payable in New Orleans, could only bear Louisiana interest, and that from the
date of the judgment, which must be presumed to have comprehended all the interest then due.
In violation of these principles the judgment of the Circuit
Court was rendered, and on these grounds should be reversed.
5. Again, the petition sets forth that the petitioners, on or
about December, 1846, recovered this judgment; whereas, the
proof is that the judgment was signed in January, 1847; and
even the hour and minute are set forth, 10.25 A. M.K

.Mr.Ketchum, for the defendants in errbr, made the following
points.
I. The judgment in the Superior Court was properly entered
against James D'Arcy, according to the law of the State of
New York, and that judgment merged the demand on the
promissory note, to recover which the suit below was brought
Carman v. Townsend, 6 Wend. 206; Opinion of Chancellor,
Ibid. 209; Oakley v. Aspinwall, 2 Sandford's Superior Court
Rep. 8.
11. The petition not only sets forth the judgment, but avers
that the same "was and is valid and binding upon said debtors
in the State of New York, where the same was rendered as
aforesaid," and also, "that said Gossip and Company was a
commerciai firm, composed of said G. H. Gossip and said
James D'Arcy:' Defendant below takes three exceptions to
the petition. He does not deny in these exceptions "that the

172

SUPREME COURT.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

judgment was valid and binding upon said debtors in the
State of New York," nor does he deny "that said Gossip and
Company was a commercial firm," &c. Not having denied
these allegations, they are admitted; the-admissions, therefore,
in point of fact, on the exceptions, are: 1. That judgment, such as that set forth, was recovered in
the Superior Court of the City of New York.
2. That the judgment was valid and binding upon the
debtors in the State of New York.
3. That Gossip & Co. was a commercial firm, composed of
G. H. Gossip and James D'Arcy.
These, as matters of fact, are admitted by the exceptions;
but then it is denied in the exceptions that the judgment is
one upon which suit can be brought against the defendant
in this court; it is also alleged that the judgment does not follow the verdict, and that the same is not signed, and is not
final, and not properly certified.
III. The exceptions were rightly decided against defendant
by the court below.
IV. The motion for a new trial on 19th Mlay, 1848, was
made upon the ground that the judgment rendered in said suit
was contrary to law and evidence, insomuch as by said judgment an effect is given to the record of a judgment rendered
and proceedings had in a court of the State of New York,
superior to, and wholly different from, the effect which would
be given to said judgment and proceedings so rendered and
had in one of the courts of the State of New York in any
court of the said State of New York.
Had the plaintiff declared on the judgment, substantially, as
he has- stated his case in the petition, and had the defendant
below demurred thereto, on the ground stated in the exceptions, on that demurrer judgment would have been rendered
against defendant in the State of New York. Carman v.
Townsend, 6 Wend. 206.
V. If the cause was heard on the exceptions only, and
judgment passed thereon, then a hearing on the plea and answer must have been waived by defendant's counsel. If the
cause was heard on the whole case, and the decision made on
the law and evidence, the court must assume that the decision
was right, inasmuch as the evidence on which the judgment is
founded is not given in the case.
Mt. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here on writ of error to the Circuit Court
for the District of Louisiana; the proceeding below being by
petition, according to the practice of that court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

173

D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

It alleges in substance that about December, 1846, George
H. Gossip and James D'Arcy were jointly and severally in.
debted to Ketchum, Rogers,.and Bement, who recovered a judgment against said Gossip and D'Arcy in the Superior Court of
the City of New York, for $1,418.81, and costs of suit, with
interest on the principal sum after the rate of seven per cent.
from February 1st, 1840. "1Which judgment," says the petition, "1was duly and legally obtained, and was and is valid -and
binding upon said debtors in the State of New York, where
the same was rendered."
Among others, D'Arcy took the following peremptory exception: "The defendant excepts, that the judgment sued upon is not one upon which suit can be brought against the defendant in this court." The exception went to the merits, as
it alleged that the action was not well founded, and was properly pleaded, in conformity to the 330th section bf the Code of
Louisiana Practice, page 128.
In the Circuit Court this exception was overruled, obviously
on the assumption that the New York judgment was conclusive, and judgment was rendered against the defendant. And
as this was done on an inspection of the record merely as if
vzul tiel record had bebn pleaded, the question is, whether the
proceeding in New York bound D'Arcy.
It appears, among other things, that Gossip and D'Arcy
were partners in trade, doing business in the name of Gossip
& Co. They were jointly sued with two others. Process
was served on Gossip, but none on ,D'Arcy, who was a citizen
of Louisiana, and resided there. Gossip pleaded the general
issue and gave notiw of set-off, but at the trial permitted judgment to go against him by default, on which a ju;y assessed
damages. On this verdict a judgment was rendered jointly
against both Gossip and D'Arcy, by the court in N6w York.
This proceeding was according to a statute of that State
which provides, that, "where joint debtors are sued and one
is brought into court on process, he shfall answer the plaintiff;
and if judgment shall pass for plaintiff, he shall have judgment
and execution, not only against the party brought into court,
but also against other joint debtors named in the original process, in the same manner as if they had all been taken and
brought into court by virtue of such process; but it shall not
be lawful to issue or execute eiiy such execution against the
body or against the sole property of any person not brought
into court."
For a settled construction of this statute in the State of
New York, we are referred to the following cases: Dando
v. Tremper, 2 Johns. 87; Bank of Columbia v. Newcomb,
1.5 *

174

SUPREME COURT.
D'A.rcy v. Ketchum et al.

6 Johns. 98; Taylor and Twiss v. Pettybone, 16 Johns. 66; and
Carman v. Townsend, 6 Wend. 206.
From these cases it appears that in the New York courts it
is held "that such judgment is valid, and binding on an absent defendant as primdfacie evidence of a- debt, reserving to
him the right to enter again into the merits, and show that he
ought not to have been charged," should he be sued on the
judgment; and furthermore, that the original contract is merged
and extinguished by the judgment.
It follows, that, as D'Arcy's defence was in effect a demurrer
to the record evidence, it could not have been made in the
courts of New York.
And this brings up the question, whether the New York
statute, and the judgment founded on it, bound a citizen of
Louisiana not served with process; or, in other words, whether
the judgment had the same force and effect in Louisiana that
it had in New York. It is a question of great stringency. If
it be true that this judgment has force and effect beyond the
local jurisdiction where it was rendered, joint debtors may be
sued in any numbers, and if one is served with process, judgment may be rendered against all; by which means the debt
will be established: and as it must happen in numerous instances that one debtor may be found in a State carrying on
so great a portion of our commerce as New York does, this
mode of proceeding against citizens of other States and persons residing in foreign countries may have operation in all
parts of the world, and especially in the United States. If
New York may pass such laws, and render such judgments,
so may every other State bind joint debtors who reside elsewhere, and who are ignorant of the proceeding. That countries foreign to our own disregard a judgment merely against
the person, where he has not been served with process nor had
a day in court, is the familiar rule; national comity is never
thus extendt - The proceeding is deemed an illegitimate
assumption of power, and resisted as mere abuse. Nor has
any faith and credit, or force and effect, been given to such
judgments by any State of this Union, so far as we know; the
State courts have uniformly, and in many instances, held them
to be void, and resisted their execution by a second judgment
thereon; and in so holding they have altogether disregarded,
as inapplicable, the Co- titution and laws of the United States.
We deem it to be fret rorn controversy, that these adjudications are in conformity to the well-established rules of international law, regulating governments foreign to each other; and
this raises the question, whether our federal Constitution and
the act of Congress founded on it have altered the rule?

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

175

D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al.

The Constitution declares, that "full faith and credit shall be
given in each State to the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by
general laws prescribe the manner in which such acts, records,
and proceedings shall be proved, and tlhe effect thereof."
By the act of May 26, 1790, Congress prescribes, first, the
mode in which the judicial records of one State shall be
proved in the tribunals of another; to wit, that they shall be
'authenticated by a certificate of the clerk under the seal of the
court, with a certificate of the presiding judge that the clerk's
attestation is in due form. Secondly, " And the said records
and judicial proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid, shall have
such faith and credit given to them, in every court within the
United States, as they have, by law or usage, in the .courts of
the State from whence the said records are or shall be taken."
These provisions were considered by this court in the case
of Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 483, wheie it was held that the
recited sentence of the act of 1790 did declare the effect of a
State judgment, by enacting that it should have such faith and
credit in every other State as it had in the courts of the State
from whence it was taken; and that a judgment, where the
defendant had been served with process, concluded such defendant from pleading nil debet when sued in another State on
the record, and consequently from going behind the judgment
and reexamining the original cause of action; that he was concluded by the record, in like manner as he stood concluded in
the State -where the judgment was rendered.
This decision was made in 1813, and has since been followed as the binding and proper construction of the act of
1790, in cases where process has been served. But, as was
then predicted, (and as has been manifest ever since,) great
embarrassment must ensue if the construction, on the facts of
that particular case, is applied to all others, without exception.
In construing the act of 1790, the law as it stood when the
act was passed must enter into that construction; so that the
existing defect in the old law may be seen, and its remedy by
the act of Congress comprehended. Now it was most reasonable, on general principles of comity and justice, that, among
States and their citizens united as ours are, judgments rendered in one should bind citizens of other States, where defendants had been served with process, or voluntarily made
defence.
As these judgments, however, were only primdfacie evidence,
and subject to be inquired into by plea wi n sued on in another State, Congress saw proper to remedy the evil and to

176

SUPREME COURT.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum et aL

rovide that such inquiry and double defence should not be allowed. To this extent, it is declared in the case of Mills v.
Duryee, Congress has gone in altering the old rule. Nothing
more was required.
On the other hand, the international law as it existed among
the States in 1790 was, that a judgment rendered in one State,
assuming to bind the person of a citizen of another, was void
within -the foreign State, when the defendant had not been
served with process or voluntarily made defence, because neith'er the legislative jurisdiction, nor that of courts of justice,
had binding force.
Subject to this established principle, Congress also legislated; and the question is, whether it was intended, to overthrow this principle, and to declare a new rule, which would
bind the citizens of one State to the laws of another; as must
be the case if the laws of New York bind this defendant in
Louisiana. There was no evil in this part of the existing law,
and no remedy called for, and in our opinion Congress did not
intend to overthrow the. old rule by the enactment that such
faith and credit should be given to records of judgments as they
had in the State where made. The language employed is not
only fairly open to construction, but the result arrived at by
the court below depends on construction; and when we lQok
to the previous law, and the evil intended to be reniedied by the
framers ofthe Constitution and by Congress, we cannot bring
our minds to doubt, that the act of 1790 does not operate on,
or give additional force to, the judgment under consideration;
we concur with the various decisions made by State courts,
holding that Congress did not intend to embrace judicial records of this description, and are therefore of opinion that the
defendant's exception was valid, and that the judgment must
be reversed; and so order.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the'
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions for further proceedings to
be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

