480

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

defendant, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this
action, which instruction the court refused to give.
The ruling of the court, as set forth in this exception, though
not reconcilable with their own decision on the first prayer presented to them by the defendant, is in accordance with the opinion we have expressed in reference to the questions raised by
that prayer, and also with the doctrine ruled by this and in
other tribunals upon those questions, as in treating of that first
prayer we have already shown. It places the parties upon the
true ground of contestation between them, viz. the truth, the
extent, and manner of performance on the one hand; the degree of injury, from omission, neglect, or imperfection of perfornance on the other. The ruling of the Circuit Court, therefore, upon this exception, is"entirely approved; but as that court
has erred in its decision in reference to the prayers in the first,
fourth, and fifth exceptions of the defendant, its decision as to
those prayers is hereby reversed, with costs, and this cause is
remanded to the Circuit Court, with orders for a venire facias
for a new trial in conformity with the principles expressed in
this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

FREDERIc D. CONRAD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. DAVID GRIFFEY.
Where a witness was examined for the plaintiff, fnd the defendant offered in evidence declarations which he had made of a contradictory character, and then the
plaintiff offered to give in evidence others, affirmatory of the first, these last
affirmatory declarations were not admissible, being made at a time posterior to
that at which he made the contradictory declarations given in evidence by the
defendant.
Where the writ, pleadings, and contract spoke only of Frederic D. Conrad, and tie
judgment went against Daniel Frederic Conrad, the defendant, it was too late
after verdict and jadgment to assign the variation ar error.

Tais case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

481

Conrad v. Griff-ey.

There was only one point of evidence involved. Three exceptions were taken during the progress of the trial by the
plaintiff below, but, as the verdict was in his favor, they were
not argued here.
On the 26th of March, Conrad, being a Louisiana planter,
made a contract with Griflfy of Cinbinnati, by which Griffey
engaged to construct and set up a steam-engine and sugarmill boilers, &c., upon Conrad's plantation, for $ 6,650, payable
at different times. Griffey stipulated to have the privilege of
appointing the engineer to run the engine during the rolling
of the first crop.
On the 23d of December, 1846, Griffey brought his action,
by way of petition, against Conrad, claiming a balance of
$ 3,781.58.
On the 22d of January, 1847, Conrad filed his answer, admitting the work, but denying that it was properly performed
according to contract, and alleging that he had sustained a
loss of $ 10,000, which he claimed in reconvention.
On the first trial, February 23, 1848, the jury found a verdict for plaintiff for $ 3,000, without interest.
The court granted a new trial.
On the 20th of February, 1849, the cause came on again
for trial, when the jury found a verdict for plaintiff for
3,781.58, with interest.
Amongst other testimony taken on the part of the plaintiff,
under a commission, was that of Leonard M. Nutz, the engineer sent by Griffey to erect and work the machine. His
answers to various interrogatories may be condensed as follows: -

The quality and strength of the engine were well proportioned and strong. The quality of the machinery was good.
The general style and character of the whole workmanship,
mill and engine, was good. It compared with others very well.
By housings are meant the frame which holds or supports
the rollers.
I did notice particularly the housings of Mr. Conrad's mill
and engine. They were sufficiently strong; they were well
fitted and suited for the purposes they were intended to be
used for.
I do not know 6f any defects.
In answer to 14th interrogatory says, 1 was at the mill and
engine, after it was started, in the capacity and employment
of engineer. I was there on the 30th day of October, 1845,
acting in that capacity.
In answer to 15th interrogatory says, On the 30th of
October we put in a spring beam, underneath the housing,
41
VOL. XL

482

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

and took out the ones that were there, on account of their
being made of green timber and bad sprung; there was nothing broke at that time ; some time in November one of the
housings broke, which was caused by the carelessness of one
of the negroes letting a piece of iron pass in the rollers, in the
carrier, which was sufficient to break any engine; I was asleep
along side of the engine, and was awakened by the surge, and
took out the piece of iron; the housing did not part, it only
cracked, and the mill was nct stopped at all on account
thereof; but when the tie-bolt was put in, we stopped about
2J hours.
In answer to 17th interrogatory says, The head engineer
had an assistant furnished by the planter; the head engineer
watches 18 hours, the assistant 6 hours, and they two attend
to the engine.
In answer to 18th interrogatory says, I had an assistant,
which was one of Mr. Conrad's slaves, named Tilman, furnished by Mr. Conrad.
In answer to 19th interrogatory says, The accident occurred
during the watch of my assistant.
In answer to 20th interrogatory says, There was no time
lost, except the two hours and a half which I was putting in
the tie-bolt.
. In answer to 21st interrogatory says, I made two new
brace bolts for the housings, and continued the crop without
any further detention.
In answer to 22d interrogatory says, I was present du-ing
the whole time the engine was employed taking off the crop
that year, and no other stoppage of the engine and mill
occurred.
This deposition was taken on the 1st of April, 1847.
The defendant then offered the depositions of Sosthene Allain, W. Hunptock, and William Neff. It may here be mentioned that the plaintiff objected to reading what related to
Nutz's statements, on the ground that the defendant, by omitting to cross-examine him, and to inquire into such conversations, had not laid the foundation for the admission of such
statements. But the court decided to admit them, and allowed them tot be read. To this decision the plaintiff's counsel excepted. But, as before remarked, this exception was not
argued.
The depositions were as follows.
Mr. Alain:Interrogatory 22d. Did you see and converse with the white
engineer (who ran Mr. Corad's engine), just-after. the last accident to the mill; if yes, do you recollect his name; what rea-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850,

483

Conrad v. Griffey.

son did he assign for the housing of the mill being fractured;
did you hear any thing about a piece of iron or wood running
into the rollers ;, if yea, what and from whom?
To 22d interrogatory witness answers: That he did converse
with the engineer, whose name he believes was Nutz, immediately after the breaking of the housing; and that the reason
assigned by said engineer, Nutz, for the breaking of the housing was, that the housings were entirely too weak; that witness did not hear any thing said by any one about a piece of
iron or wood having run into thl rollers.
MIr. Hunstock :3d. Did the plaintiff examine the sugar-mill and engine of
detendant at that time, and what did he say touching the accidents to the machinery, and their probable cause ?
To the 3d interrogatory the witness answers: That the
plaintiff did exanfine the dugar-mill and engine of defendant at
that time, and then he, the plaintiff, said, that Nutz, the engineer, whom he, the plaintiff, had sent to run the engine of
defendant, had told him that the breaking of the housings of
the mill was owing to the chawing of the keys that keyed up
the brace bolts; but he, the plaintiff, had afterwards found outthat said Nutz was an incompetent and lazy engineer, and that'
he was inclined to believe that it was oWing to'Nutz's neglect
the accident happened, and that he, the plaintiff was so dissatisfied with Nutz, that soon after his return to Cincinnati he
had dismissed him from his shrr.
10th. Did you see Nutz soon af~Zr, and how soon after, the
breaking of the housings; did he express any opinion as to the
cause, and what did he say on the subject?
To the 10th interrogatory the w'itness answers - That he saw
Nutz soon after the accident occurred, at his, witness's, sugarhouse, but cannot say precisely how long after, but it was not
longer than one week after the breaking of the housing, that
Nutz came to the sugar-house of witness, by consent of defendant, to assist in taking dowu some part of his, witness's, machinery, which occupied him about one or two hours; during
which time he had a conversation with Nutr about the accident which had happened to the housing of defendant's mill;
that he asked Nutz to what cause the breaking of said housing
was owing; and Nutz answered, he could not tell the cause of
its breaking, as there was moderate feed on the cane-carrier at
the time the accident happened, and no strain on the mill.
William Neff:The 22d interrogatory was the same as that put to Mr.
Allen.
To the 22d interrogatory the witness answers: Tha, he

484

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

heard that Nutz said, that he could not tell the reason why ae
housing broke; that there was a very light feed of cane on at
the time, and no strain on the mill. This was said by Nutz
immediately after the fracture was discovered, and he said, at
the same time, that nothing had gone through the rollers that
could have strained the mill.
Interrogatory 32d. Was there any unusual strain on the
mill at the time the housing gave way; if yes, state what it
was; did any iron or wood, or any foreign substance, go into
the rollers to strain them; if yes, what was it; what did the
engineer, Mr.' Nutz, say about it at the time?
To 32d interrogatory witness answers: That he has no
knowledge that there was any unusual strain on the mill when
the housing broke, and that he does not think there was. Witness has no knowledge that any iron or wood, or any other
substance than sugar-cane., went,into the rollers to strain them,
nor does he believe that any foreign substance did get into
them to strain them. Witness heard Mr. Nutz express great
surprise at the time at the accident, saying that he could not
account for it, as there was a lightfeed of cane at the moment,
and nothing had gone into the rollers to strain them. In talking on the subject of the accident, witness heard Mr. Nutz say,
that the housings were entirely tpo weak for the power of the
engine, besides the mill.
These depositions having been given in evidence, the plaintiff offered, as rebutting evidence, and to support the credit of
Nutz, the two following nieces of testimony.
1st. The following letter from Nutz: " New Albany, April 3, 1846.
"MR. D. GRIFFEY: - Dear Sir: My sister handed me a few
lines addressed to her, requesting me to send my affidavit respecting F. D. Conrad. I have no knowledge of the information you wish, unless it be the accident of the breaking of one
of the housings of his sugar-mill, and all that I can say upon
the subject is, tlat the night when, in my candid opinion, the
accident happened, I'was awakened by the surging of the engine; it completely stopped under a good head of steam. I
then ordered the negro man who was running the engine at
the time, to examine well in the cane shute, supposing something harder than cane to have passed in the carrier, and there
was found a piece of iron that broke off of one of the cane
carts, wedged in front of rolls, too large to pass; in the shape
about 16 inche6 long, 1 inches wide,
was thus,
where it came in contact with the other, with the rolls; and
from that time until I discovered the break, which was the

485

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Conrad v. Griffey.

next day, I found it difficult to keep that end of rolls tight;
I then forged new' tie-bolts with keys on the outer ends, to
keep them firmly keyed, and by so doing we were enabled
to take off the crop without losing but three hours by the
break; for whilst I was forging the bolts, the engine was still
running.
"Previous to the breaking of the housing, we had another
small stoppage, but no accident; the wall was very green, and
likely to give way; under the spur-wheel stand bed-plates,
which rendered it firm and secure during the season, and will
always remain so under any reasonable usage; this stoppage
was the 30th of October, 1845.
" If the overseer, Mr. Collins, had let Mr. D. Edwards commence his work when he wanted to, I do candidly think
the walls would have been more firm; and the least fear would
have been overcome; there was no accident, but the bolts were
placed to render the work more secure upon the foundation;
and as for the machinery in general, it was a good strong piece
of work, hard to be surpassed.
" LEONARD N.

NUTZ.

" To DAVID GRIFFEY, State of 1~diana, Floyd County, ss.

" On the 3d.day of April, A. D. 1846, before the subscriber,
justice of peace in and for the said county, and authorized by
law to administer oaths, personally appeared Leonard N. Nutz,
and made oath that the above is a true statement of F. D.
. NUTZ.
"LEONARD
Conrad's sugar-mill and engine.
" Given under my hand and seal, this 3d day of April, 1846.
" SAMUEL G. WILSON, J. P2"
2d. The testimony of one Edwards, a witness, sworn in open
court, to the effect that, in the spring of 1847, the said Nutz
had said, in the presence of said Edwards, that the breaking ef
the housings or frame of the sugar-mill had been occasioned
by a piece of iron getting between the rollers.
To the introduction of this rebutting testimony the defendant objected, but the court directed it to be admitted; whereupon the defendant took the following bill of exceptions :
"Be it known, that on thetrial of this cause before the jury,
the plaintiff having offered the deposition of Leonard N. Nutz
in evidence, and the defendant having offered the depositions
of Sosthene Allain, W. Hunstock, and William Neff, all on
file, the said plaintiff offered as rebutting evidence, and to support the credit of L. N. Nutz, "1st. A letter of L. N. Nutz, of date New Albany, tbhi.,2d
41'

486

SUPRE'ME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

of April, 1846, with an affidavit annexed; and 2d. The testimony of one Edwards, a witness, sworn in open court, to the
effect that, in the spring of 1847, the said Nutz had said, in the
presence of said Edwards, that the breaking of the housings or
frame of the sugar-mil put up by plaintiff for defendant, had
been occasioned by a piece of iron getting between the rollers.
To both of which, to wit, the said letter and affidavit, and the
said statement in presence of said Edwards, the counsel for
defendant objected, that, at the time of the making of said affidavit and said verbal statements, the said Nutz was not an
agent of defendant, or employed by him; that said" affidavit
was not made under commission, nor with any notice or opportunity on the part of defendant to cross-examine the said
witness; that his said verbal statement was not made in the
presence of defendant; and, lastly, that the evidence of the defendant abbve referred to was not an attack upon the credit of
said Nutz, but was competent testimony, admissible to prove
the facts attested, and did not justify the admission of statements, either verbal or written, at other times and places made
by said Nutz in order to support his credit; but all said objections were overruled, and the said letter and. affidavit were received, and the testimony of said Edwards, as above stated,
was also received and laid before the jury; to all of which the
counsel for the defendant tender this their bill of exceptions,
and,pray that the answers to the interrogatories of L. N. Nutz,
W. Hunstock, William Neff, and Sosthene Allain be deemed
and taken "asa part of this bill of exceptions, and be copied
and certified accordingly.
46TEo. H. MCCALEB,

U. S. fudge."

Upon this exception, the case was argued in this court by

Mr. Fendall,for the plaintiff in error, and llr. Gillet, for he'
defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made several points, of
which it is only necessary to notice the following.
I. Illegal evidence.
This ground is disclosed in the defendant's bill of exceptions,
and in the letter and affidavit which it refers to.
Griffey was bound by his contract to "put up," as well as to
construct, the steam-engine and sugar-mill; and, in the contract, he reserved to himself the privilege of appointing the
engineer to run the engine, during the rolling of the first crop.
Leonard N. Nutz was the "engineer appointed to run the engine for the plaintiff." He was thus a very important witness
for the plaintiff. His deposition tends to prove, that the steamengine, sugar-mill, and apparatus supplied by the plaintiff below

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

487

Conrad v. Griffey.

were, in every respect, conformable to the contract between the
parties; that the plaintiff had, on his part, fully complied with
his contract, and that he was entitled to the price which he
claimed under the contract, and for extra work. In short, his
deposition tended to prove the plaintiff's whole case. Other
witnesses deposed to the weakness and insufficiency of the machinery; and their testimony, on many points, is in direct conffict with that of Nutz.
One of these points was especially important. Soon after
the sugar-mill was set up, the housings, or frame on which the
rollers rest, which are the foundation on which the mill works,
broke; and could not be fully repaired during the entire season.,
In consequence of this very serious injury, the grinding was
greatly delayed, and when it recommenced, the work was done
much less perfectly. It became a most material subject of in-,
quiry whether this breaking arose from the weakness of the
housings, or from some cause for which the manufacturer was
not liable. Nutz, in his deposition, swore that the breaking
was caused by a piece of iron passing in the rollers in the
carrier. Three other witnesses present, or near, at the time
when the break was discovered, swore to the contrary of this.
In order to induce the jury to give greater credit to Nutz's
testimony than to that of the defendant's witness, the plaintiff
offered to show that at other times, and to other persons, Nutz
had given the same account of the breaking as that contained
in his deposition. The objections set out in defendant's bill of
exceptions to the admissibility of Nutz's letter of the 3d of
April, 1846, and his statement in the presence of Edwards, are
relied on in support of the writ (f error. In some cases the
credit of a witness may be supported by proof of his-statements, but this is not a case within the rule. Whatever uncertainty or fluctuation may be discerned among the older authorities, the doctrine which is now well established limits the
abduction of confirmatory statements to cases in which the
motive of the witness is assailed or brought under suspicion.
In such cases, and in such only, evidence is admitted of his
having made similar statements when the imputed motive did
not exist. This principle is clearly to be collected from the
rule, as enunciated in different forms by the most approved
writers. See Sir W. D. Evans, 2 Pothier on Obligations, 289;
1 Greenl. Ev. § 469; 1 Starkie's Ev. 148, 149 (Bost. 1826);
3 Starkie's Ev. 1758; 1 Phil. Ev. 308 (ed. N. Y. 1839); 2 Phil.
Ev. 445, 446 (ed. N. Y. 1849, from 9th Lond. ed.); Rovbb v.
Hackley, 23 Wend. 50; 24 Wend. 465; 10 Peters, 438,439; 1
McLean, 211, 212; 8 Wheat. 332; 24 Wend. 425, 426.
In Parker's case, 3 Doug. 242, the evidence of a confirm-

488

SUPREME CaURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

atory statement was rejected, Buller, J. holding "that it was
clearly inadmissible, not being upon oath." This objection
being sufficient for that case, it was unnecessary for the court
to go any further. But the principle is the same, whether the
confirnatory statement b'e sworn or unsworn. In this case, the
statement made in the presence of Edwards was not sworn to;
and that may have been the very statement that swayed the
jury. "11It is well settled that, if improper evidence be given,
although it .may be cumulative only, the judgment must be reversed; for we cannot say what effect such evidence may have
had on the minds of the jury." Osgood v. Manhattan Com3 Cowen, 621 ; cit. Marquand v. Webb, 16 Johns. 89.
But whether the confirmatory statement was or was not sworn
to, the 1-ue questions are, in either alternative, Was the statement made before the imputed or suspected motive existed?
(2 Evans's Pothiier, 289 ; 1 Phil. Ev. 308.) Was it made before
"the relation" of the witness "to the party or to the cause"
existed? (1 Greenl. Ev. § 469.) Was it made "at a time
when the witness labored under no interest or influenceto misrepresent the fact" ? '(1 Starkie's Ev. 149; 3 Ibid. 1758.)
Neither Nutz's letter and affidavit, nor his statement in the
presence of Edwards, can stand any of these tests. His credit
may have been impeached, indirectly, by disproving facts sworn
by him; and directly, by proof that his own statements, made
when the breaking occurred, were in direct conflict with the
account which he gave in his deposition. But his own position
on the 3d of April, 1846, when he writ the letter, and in the
spring of 1847, when he made the statement in the presence
of Edwards, was the same as on the 1st of April, 1847, when
he made the deposition. And in regard to his statement in
the presence of Edwards, the admission of it in evidence is
liable to the further objection, that it was not proved to have
been before he gave his deposition. Edwards says that it was
made " in-the spring of 1847" ; but whether before or afler the
1st of April in that year lie does not say. The "relation to the
party and to the cause" which tended to bias the mind of
Nutz existed in the fall of 1845, and resulted from his being
employed by the plaintiff to set up and work the mill. That
bias was at least as strong in April, 1846, the date of the letter,
as it was in April, 1847, the date of the deposition; and, consequently, his statements at the former or any intermediate
date could not legally be adduced in support of his deposition.
IV. Relpugnancy and uncertainty in the judgment.
1. The judgment is against a person not a party to the suit.
2. The judgment is uncertain as to the identity of the defendant.

-pany,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

489

Conrad v. Griffey.

The sait is brought against " Frederick D. Conrad "; in all
the- pleadings, entries, captions, &c.,. he is so called, except
when he is called " F. D. Conrad "; the contract purports to
have been made between the plaintiff and "Frederick Daniel
Conrad." The judgment is against " Daniel Frederick Conrad." The middle name forms no part of th6 Christian name'
of.a party. * Keene v. Meade, 3 Peters, 7; Games v. Stiles, 14
Peters, 327. The suit, then, is against Frederick Conrad, and
the judgment is against Daniel Conrad.

3Mr. Gillet, for the defendant in error, made the following
points :1. The defendant assailed the veracity )f Nutz, by proving
that he had given to defendant's witnesses an account of the
breaking the housings of the mill which essentially differed
from his testimony in the cause, taken before a commissioner.
1 Greenl. Ev. § 462; 1 Phil. Ev. 293; Roscoe's Criminal Ev.
181,182; 3 Starkie's Ev. 1753; 1 Part of Cowen & Hill's notes
on Phil. Ev. 772, and cases there cited.
2. The plaintiff had a right to fortify Nutz's testimony,.after
it was assailed, by proving that he had formerly given the
same account of the transaction. English Authorities:Gilbert's Ev. 135 ; Finney's case, McNally's Ev. 378;
McCann's case, Ibid. 381; Leary's case, Ibid. 379; Buller's
Nisi Prius, 294; Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown, b. 2, c. 46, s. 48 ;
Roscoe's Crim. 1Ev. 1757, 1758; Sir J. Friend's case, 4 State
Trials, 37; S. C., 13 Howell's State Trials, 32; Harrison's
case, 2 Howell's State Trials, 861; Lutterel v. Regnell, 1
lod. 282. American Authorities :-Quay v. Eagle Fire Ins.
Co., by Van Ness, J., 2 City Hall Recorder, 1, 21; Connecticut v. DeWolf, 8 Conn. 93; The People v. Vane, 12 Wend.
78, 79 ; Johnson v. Patterson, 2 Hawks, 183; State v.- Twitty,
2 Hawks, 248, 441, 448; Coffin v. Anderson, 4 Blackf. 395;
Beauchamp v. The State, 6 Blackf. 300; The Commonwealth
v. Bosworth, 22 Pick. 397; Cook v. Curtis, 6 Har. & Johns.
86 - 93; Packer v. Gonsalus, 1 Serg. & Rawle, 536 ; Henderson v. Jones, 10 Serg. & Rawle, 322; Wright v. Deklyne, 1
Pet. 203; Claiborn v. Parish, 2 Wash. Va. 148.
3. The defendant below had no right to give in evidence
what Nutz had told other persons concerning the sugar-mill,
because he (the defendant) had not inquired of him (Nutz)
whether he had had any such conversations with such persons, thereby laying a founddtion for such evidence. Roscoe,
Cr. Ev. 182, 184; Evertson v. Carpenter, 17 Wend. 419;
Tucker v. Welch, 17 Mass. 160; Ware v. Ware, 8 Greenleaf,
42; The Queen's Case, 2 Brod. & Bing. 301; 1 Greenleaf's Ev.
§ 462; 1 Phil. Ev. 593, 1 Cowen & Hill's Notes, 773.

490

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

4. If evidence was given by the plaintiff to repel such illegal evidence on the part of the defendant, it merely counteracted the error committed by him, and is no ground of error.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, there had been four bills of exception filed in
the court below,, but only one of them by Conrad, the plaintiff
in error. We shall, therefore, proceed to dispose of that alone.
It objected to the receipt in evidence of declarations, made
by a witness for the original plaintiff, under the following
circumstances.
Griffey brought a suit against Conrad for building a mill
for him to grind sugar-cane; and, among other defences set
up by the "latter, was that of weakness and insufficiency in
the work and materials furnished. To repel this defence
Griffey put in the deposition of Nutz, who was an engineer
and aided and superintended the erection of the mill, and
who testified to the goodness of both the work and materials.
With a view to contradict and impeach him in what he
thus swore, Conrad proved that this witness, soon after the
completion of the mill, had given a different account, and
especially of the cause of the breaking of some of the machinery; considering it to have happened from the badness
of the materials.
Griffey then offered to prove that the witness had since
given the same statement, as to the goodness of the work
and materials, which was now in his deposition. But Conrad
objected to the admissibility of such evidence; and the court
below overruled his exception and allowed the evidence to go
to the jury.
After due consideratiun, our opinion is, that this ruling was
erroneous.
The practice on this subject seems to differ much in different
States, and has occasionally changed in the same State. It is
sometimes modified, also, as applied to different classes of cases
and witnesses.
Thus, in some places, as in New York, such evidence is, as
a general rule, now treated as inadmissible. Robertson v.
Caw, 3 Barbour, 410; Robb v. Hackley, 23 Wend. 50; Dudley
v. Bolles, 24 Wend. 465. So in Vermont. Gibbs v. Linsley,
13 Verm. 208. Though at one time in New York it was allowed, and particularly in certain criminal cases. The People
v. Vane, 12 Wend. 78; Jackson v. Etz, 5 Cowen, 320.
But in some other States this kind of evidence has been
deemed competent. As in Massachusetts, in a criminal case,
where an accomplice was a witness. Commonwealth v. Bos-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

491

Conrad v. Griffey.

worth, 22 Pick. 397. And in Maryland, if the statements were
prior in point of time. Cook v. Curtis, 6 Har. & Johns. 93.
In Pennsylvania, also, such statements have been admitted,
without reference to their priority. As in Parker v. Gonsalus,
1 Serg. & Rawle, 536; Henderson v. Jones, 10 Ib. 322. So in
Indiana. Coffin v. Anderson, 4 Blackf. 398, 399. And in
some other States, which need not be repeated, a similar.practice appears to prevail.
But in other places, as in England, such evidence, though at
one time considered competent, and especially in criminal
cases, (Gilb. Ev. 135; McNally's Ev. 378, 381; Bull. N. P.
294; Lutterrell v. Reynell, 1 Mod. 282), is now even there excluded. See Parker's case, 3 Doug. 242; 10 Peters, 440; 1
Phil. Ev. 2 and 3, and 230, note; 1 Starkie's Ev. 187 and
note; 23 Wend. 55; 2 Phil. Ev. 445; Brazier's Case, 1 East,
P. C. 444; 2 Starkie, N. P. 242.
While the rule was otherwise in England, some of the
State decisions already cited were expressly grounded on the
rule there (see 10 Serg. & Rawle, 332), and others on cases
adopting that rule (4 Blackf. 398).
But since the rule became changed in England, or- from being doubtful became well established against the introduction
of such testimony, the practice in some States, as in New
York and Vermont, has been settled so as to correspond; and
in this court, also, it has taken the same direction.
In this court it has been held that such evidence is not admissible, if the statements were made subsequent to the contradictions proved on the other side. Ellicott v. Pearl, 10 Peters, 412, 438.
That was a case from Kentucky. Yet the decision does not
appear to have been made to rest on the peculiar laws or practice of that State; but on general principles, and the course
pursued of late years in England.
In our judicial system, perhaps the decision should not rest
on any local rule, though a different principle seems involved
ip MeNiel v. Holbrook, 12 Peters, 85, where the rule of evidence was changed by a State statute. Clark v. Sohier, 1
Woodb. & Min. 368.
But if it should so rest, we are not aware that in Louisiana,
where this case was tried, the practice differs from what appears to be required by sound general principles, independent
of any local peculiarities.
So far as regards principle, one proper test of the admissibility of such statements is, that they must be made at least
under circumstances when no moral influence existed to color
or misrepresent them. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 469; 2 Pothier on
Oblig. 289; 1 Stark. Ev. 148: 1 Phil. Ev. 308.

492

SUPREME COURT.
Conrad v. Griffey.

But when they are made subsequent to other statements of
a different character, as here, it is possible, if not probable, that
the inducement to make them is for the very purpose of counteracting those first uttered. 10 Peters, 440.
This impairs their force and credibility, when, if made before
the others, they might tend to sustain the subsequent evidence
corresponding with them. 23 Wend. 52; 2 Phil. Bv. 446; 1
Greenl. Ev. § 469.
When made in either way, they are admissible only to sustain the credit of the witness impugned, and not as per se proof
of the facts stated, and hence if made under oath, as here, but
not in legal form as a deposition between these parties, they
are none the more admissible, except, if prior in date, they
might help to sustain the witness' credit. 10 Peters, 412;
King v. Eriswell, 3 D. & E. 721.
In this case, then, not having been made prior in time, they
do not.appear on principle or precedent to be competent.
Another question has been presented, arising on the record,
which is not included in any of the exceptions.
It is that the judgment runs against "Daniel Frederick Conrad," when the writ, pleadings, and contract speak only of
"Frederick D. Conrad." But the judgment is for the plaintiff
against "Daniel Frederick Conrad, the defendant." And the
name prefixed ,as defendant in the judgment may well be rejected as surplusage, after verdict and judgment, when the
true name had been well described in the writ and pleadings.
The statute of jeofails clearly cures any such defect, where,
as here, it can well be understood who was meant by "the defendant." 1 Stat. at Large, 91; 1 Bac. Abr., Amendment, B;
1 Peters, 23.
Let the judgment below, however, be on the first ground reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded'to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to award a venirefaciasde novo.

