142

SUPREME COURT.
McGill v. Armour.

For the reasons stated, it is ordered that the decree dismissing the bill be reversed, and that the cause be remanded to
the Circuit Court, there to be proceeded in according to this
opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be beard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was a-gued by counsel. Oh consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
cour, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the
opinion of this court.

PENELOPE MCGILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JoSEPHINE

H. AumouR.

Where a creditor brought an action against an executrix in the Circuit Court of the
United States for Louisiana, and the petition only averred that the petitioner was

shown to be a creditor by the accounts in the State court which bad jurisdiction

over the estates of deceased persons, and then proceeded to charge the executrix
with a devastavit, and exceptions were taken to the petition as insufficient, these
exceptions must be sustained.

The petition should have gone on to allege farther proceedings in the Itate court
analogous to a judgment at common law, as a foundation of a claim for a judg-

ment against the executrix de bonis propriis suggesting a devastavit."
The laws of Louisiana provide for compelling go executrix to file a tableau of distribution, which is a necesgary and preliminary step towards holding the executrix
personally responsible.

The petition, not having averred this, was defective, and

the exceptions must be sustained.

THIS case was brought .up, by writ ot error, from the Circuit
Court of the -United States for the District of Louisiana.
As the decision turned upon a question of pleading, it is
proper to insert the petition, and. the exceptions which were
taken to it, by way of demurrer.
The petition was as follows.
"To the Honorable the Judges ,of the Circuit Court 'of the
United States, held in and for the District of Louisiana,
the petition of Penelope McGill respectfully shows:
"That she is a resident and citizen of the State of Mississippi.
" That Josephine Hurd Armour is a citizen of the State of
Louisiana, resident in New Orleans.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

143

McGill v. Armour.

" That Josephine Hurd Armour is indebted to, and became
liable to pay to, your petitioner the sum of $ 7,510.66, with eight
per cent. per annum interest thereon, from and'after the 6th
day of June, 1843, till paid, in the manner following, to wit: " On or about the 31st day of August, 1843, James Armour
died indebted to your petitioner in the sum of $ 7,510.66, with
interest, as above stated, the items of which debt are set forth
in the papers annexed, and marked A and B.
" That, before his death, James Armour promised in writing
to pay eight per cent. per annum interest on the funds which
petitioner ]eft in his bands, that is, on the sum of $ 7,510.66,
until their payment.
" That, at his death, James Armour left a will, in which he
appointed Josephine IL Armour the executrix of the, said Will,
and dispensed with the necessity of requiring her to give security.
" That, on the 11th day of September, 1843, she filed her
petition in the Probate Court of the parish of Orleans, praying
the appointment of executrix of the last will of James Armour,
on which said day she was appointed, and took the oath required by law; and on the 16th day of September, 1843, she
was fully authorized to do all acts as executrix of the will of
James Armour, and as such took possession of all the property
of said James Armour.
"That James Armour, at the time of his death, owned property in New Orleans which was appraised at $ 70,058.61, and
in the parish of Jefferson he owned property which .was appraised at $ 800; all of which came into the hands of said
Mrs. Josephine H. Armour as the property of James Armour,
deceased.
"That she has used for her own benefit all ot sara property,
except as herein below stated, and has appropriated no portion
thereof to the payment of the debts of James Armour.
"That among the property of the said succession of James
Armour were found the following described notes: two notes of
John Graham, each fbr $ 629.06, due on the 1st days of August,
1842 and 1843, payable to and indorsed by Buchanan, Hagand,
& Co.; a note of Dougall McCall for $ 3,803.90, due 7th June,
1841; three notes of C. A. Warfield, for $ 619.67 each, due two,
four, and six months after the 3d day of May, 1841; a note of
J. K. Patterson for $ 550, due on 1st November, 1841 ; a check
of James Pardon, Brother, & Co., on the City Bank of New
Orleans, for $ 100; another check of the same drawers, on the
Commercial Bank of New Orleans, for $ 120; a due bill of
William Christie for $ 250; a draft of Francis D. Newcomb,
on Rice Garland, for $ 75; four promissory notes of Francis D.

144

SUREME

COURT.

McGill v. Armour.

Newcomb, all dated 15th December, 1842, each for $ 954.76,
due at six, twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four months after date.
All of which several debts were dude to James Armour at the
time of his death, and have since become worthless and prescribed by means of the negligence of said Mrs. Armour; and
all said claims bore interest at the rate of eight per cent. per
annum, from their dates till paid.
"That, by means of said negligence, she has made herself
liable to the creditors of the said James Armour for the amount
of all said claims, $ 11,760 and interest at ten per cent. from
the several dates above mentioned until payment.
"That she received and applied to her own use the family residence of James Armour, valued at $ 15,000 ; she sold
two lots on Camp Street, near Felicity road, worth $ 600 ; the
property in the parish of Jefferson, worth $ 800; the slaves
Sampson, Betsy and child, Emily, Esther and child, Sarah, and
Calvin, worth by appraisement $ 2,750; also, the household
furniture and plate, carriage, &c., valued. at $ 1,000, making
$ 20,150; all of which she used for her own benefit, and did
not pay to the creditors of James Armour any portion of the
proceeds, although all said property belonged to James Armour.
"-That the said Mrs. Armour owed said succession, of James
Armour $ 411.35, at the time of his death. She collected from
the various debtors of the estate of James Armour the various
sums which are stated in the annexed invento:y to be due by
the persons therein named, and not hereinbefore set forth, which
said several debts amount to fifty thousand dollars.
"That, by receiving the property enumerated in said inventory, as the executrix of her husband's will,, she became
bound to use all due diligende in collecting the property of
said James Armour; and also became bound to apply all the
proceeds to the satisfaction of the debts of James Armour.
"That the said property was more than sufficient to pay all
the debts of iaid James Armour, if the said Mrs. Josephine H.
Armour had used due diligence in collecting and in paying
over the proceeds of the property of said estate.
"That, on the 13th day of December, 1843, the said Mrs.
Josephine H. Armour filed, in the Probate Court of the parish
of Orleans, a provisional account of the affairs of the said' succession, with which she filed a statement of all the creditors of
said estate, by which it appears that James Armour owed only
forty thousand dollars, to pay which Mrs. Armour had the sum
of setenty-one thousand dollars.
"That, in the said list of creditors, your petitioner is named
and acknowledged to be a creditor of said succession of James
Armour, for the sum sued for herein.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

145

McGill v. Armour.

"That, upon opposition made to the said account and list of
creditors, it was adjudged that the said estate of Armour owed
to your petitioner the said sum of money; as also that the
debts of the succession amounted to forty thousand dollars.
"That, by means of the neglect and the misapplication of
the funds of said succession, Mrs. Josephine Hurd Armour has
become liable to pay the said debt to your petitioner, and also
to pay damages to the amount of eight thousand dollars, and
eight per cent. per annum interest from 6th June, 1843, till paid.
" The' premises considered, petitioner prays that the said
Josephine Hurd Armour be cited, and, after due proceedings;
that she be condemned to pay your petitioner the sum of
$ 7,510.66, with eight per cent. per annum interest from the
6th day of June, 1843, and damages as above stated. Petitioner prays for a trial by jury, and for genieral relief in the
premises.

" STOCKTON

& STEELE,

Attorneys for Plaintiff."
In March, 1848, the defendant filed the following exceptions
and answer.
"And the said Penelope McGill, by her attorneys, comes
into court, and, pursuant to the rules and practice i*n this honorable court, files now this her exception and answer to said
petition.
" She excepts to said petition, and prays that the same may
be dismissed without further answer, for these reasons "9First. The said petition, and the matters and things therein
contained, are not good and sufficient in law to charge this defendant, and show no cause of action against her.
"Second. The said petition is insufficient, for the r ason that
all parties interested in the further settlement of said accounts
therein referred to are not made parties to said petition, and
the defendant cannot be called upon by each creditor of the
testator to render an account of her actings and doings.
"Third. The said defendant excepts to the jurisdictio'n of
this honorable court, sitting as a court of common law, to
determine and adjudge the matters involved in said petition,
and says that the same are only cognizable in chancery, and
according to the form of proceedings in equity.
"And if the said exceptions should be overruled, and- the
said defendant be required to make further answ'er unto said
petition, then, for answer to the same, she states: "That she denies, generally and specially, each and all of
the allegations in said petition contained, except such as are
hereinafter admitted. She admits that she was appointed the
VOL. XI.
13

146

SUPREME COURT.
McGill v. Armour.

executrix of the last will and testament of her deceased husband, James Armour; that she duly qualified, as executrix as
aforesaid, and took upon herself the administration of said
estate.
" She further states, that she has- endeavored faithfully and
honestly to discharge her duties as executrix, and avers that in
all things she has administered the effects of said estate according to law; that she made full, true, and perfect inventory of
the property of said succession, and all proper diligenc in collecting the debts of said succession; disposed of the property
.thereof under and in obedience to the order of court; made reports of her actings and doings, and presented formal tableaux
of distribution, which were duly approved and homologated
by the Probate Court of the parish of Orleans, in which such
matters were properly cognizable.
"The said defendant -further states, that the said succession
of James Armour is and was at the death of the testator
utterly insolvent, and that she is a creditor of said estate,
recognized as such by the proper tribunal, and entitled to be
paid before petitioner; and, although so recognized for a large
amount, the assets are wholly insufficient to discharge the said
claim; besides many other ordinary creditors, whose claims are
equally as meritorious as the petitioner's.
"Wherefore defendant prays for trial by jury, and that judgment be rendered against petitioner; and she will ever pray, &c.
"W. C. Mfcotu
D. HUNTON."
In May, 1848, the Circuit Court, after argument, sustained
the exceptions, and dismissed the suit, at the plaintiff's costs.
The plaintiff sued out a writ of error, and brought the case up
to this court.
It was submitted upon printed arguments by Mr. Butter-"
worthI, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Benjamin, for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error considered that the
Circuit Court, by its judgment, had decided the three following
points, in each of which there was alleged to be error: - 1st.
That no cause of action was shown in the petition; 2d. That
no proper parties were made; and 3d. That the suit should
have been upon the equity side of the court. But as the decision of this court turned exclusively upon the first point, that
one only will be noticed.
First. We think the petition shows good cause of action:
no one disputes that an executor is responsible personally to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

147

McGill v. Armour.

some one for the value of the property received by him; either
for its restoration in kind, or for its value, if the property or its
value has been lost by his negligence whilst it remained in his
possession. See 11 La. R. 22; 9 Rob. 405, 447; 9 La. R. 49;
3 Martin, N. S. 707; 7 Rob. 478.
This responsibility is directly in favor of the parties for whose
benefit the property is received by the executor.
According to the law in Louisiana (and we believe everywhere else) creditors of the deceased have a right- to be paid
out of the funds in the hands of the executor, in preference to
all other persons, whether legatees or heirs. Civil Code, Art.
1627. And they are the parties principally interested in so
much of the property as is needed to satisfy their claims; colsequently, the account must be rehdered to them of the property received, and payment must be made to -them, if it is
destroyed. No one else is interested in this matter.
Now, the plaintiff has set forth that the defendant received
property worth $ 71,000, and that the debts were only $ 58,000;
that she has destroyed a large amount of the notes, allegations,
&c., by permitting them to become prescribed and worthless;
that she has converted to her own use properry worth $ 20,000,
and that she has collected debts due to the estate of James
Armour worth $ 50,000; that she has paid no one any thing,
and that all this money, $ 71,000, was received as funds with
which to pay plaintiff's debt and that there is no other fund
from which it can be paid.
There is a tacit or quasi contract made by an executor in
receiving property of a succession, that he will pay it to the
parties to whom it rightfully belongs, that is, first to the creditors, then to the legatees, then to the heirs of the deceased.
Plaintiff sets forth that this quasi contract has been violated so
far as she is concerned, and she asks its enforcement; also, she
says the defendant received property to the value of $ 71,00f,
which property was received by her to pay this very debt, and
that by the negligence bf the defendant it has partly become
worthless, and that she has herself consumed and used the
balance, and thus she has damaged the plaintiff to the whole
amount of her debt
Thus she shows two good causes of
action against the defendant.
The counsel for the appellee replied to this point as follows.
1st. The petition is insufficient.
As the demand is for a judgment de bonispropriis,the action
is in the nature of a devastavit, at common law.
In order to sustain such a suit at common law, there must
be judgment and execution. 1 J. J. Marshall, 362; Erving v.
Peters, 3 Term Rep. 685.

148

SUPREME COURT.
McGill v. Armour.

Action may be brought upon the judgment without execution, upon a suggestioAi of a devastavit, but it is usual to sue
out afierifacias,and state the judgment, writ, and return. 2
Williams on Executors, 1224, with numerous cases cited.
The reason why the judgment without execution is sufficient
is stated on the same page. 16The foundation of the action is
the jtrdgment obtained against the executor, which, as there
has been already occasion to show, is conclusive upon him to
show that he has assets." 2 Williams, 1224.
Hence, whenever the executor is sued at common law, lie
must, at his peril, plead plene administravit;if he fail to do so
his silence is a confession- of assets, and he is not permitted
ever after to deny that he has sufficient assets to pay the demand. 3 Term Rep. 690; 3 Bac. Abr., tit. Executors (IM.);
Siglar v. Haywood, 8 Wheaton, 678.
There is no averment of judgment or execution in the petition. It is true that the plaintiff alleges that her name and
debt were placed on a list of debts, and that on opposition it
was adjudged -" that the estate of Armour owed petitioner
the said sum of money" But this is a very different thing
from the judgment against an executor at common law. Such
a judgment rendered simply is proof of assets; but t mere
decree that the estate owed the debt is no judgment whatever
against the executor, and no proof of assets on suit for devastavit.
The proceeding to which the petition alludes is peculiar to
the laws of Louisiana. No creditor is permitted to bring suit
for the debt of the estate, without first presenting his claim to
the administrator. If the claim. be acknowledged in writing
by the administrator, the creditor "may present it to the judge,
that it may be ranked amongst the acknowledged debts of the
succession." Louisiana Code of Practice, art. 984, 985. If
the administrator refuse to acknowledge the claim, then the
creditor may bring suit. Art. 986. But the judgment obtained gives no priority, and the creditor can only obtain payment concurrently with the other creditors. Art. 987. And
when the administrator has funds to pay, he calls all the creditors together, to. receive the amounts due .them respectively.
,Art. 988.
The judge is empowered to direct the sale of property for
payment of debts, and when the representative of the estate
has funds, he calls the creditors together, by publications notifying them that a dividend has been declared, and a tableau
thereof filed in court, in 'accordance with which the funds will
be distributed after approval by the judge. In other words,
estates are administered in Louisiana like bankruptcies. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

149

McGill v. Armour.

executor, is the assignee, and he makes payments or declares
dividends only under the orders of the court,
The acknowledgment of the executor is often made, as in
this instance, by filing in court a list or statement of the debts
of the succession. This list approved or homolo'gated establishes the debt as against the succession, and entitles the creditor to participate in any future dividends. Such is the judgment of the plaintiff in this suit. How different it is from the
judgment necessary at common law to support the action of
devastavit, is too obvious to require any argument It is' different in its effects and its legal consequences. No execution
can issue upon it, and it does not imply assets in the hands
of the executor. Such a judgment is therefore insufficient to
support the action.
If"it be pretended that the mode of proceeding in Louisiana
precludes any other form of judgment, we reply that such is
not the case. The rights of creditors are fully protected under
our laws. If he has reason to believe that there are funds in
the hands of the executor, he may call upon him by rule, and
enforce its ditribution. He may even demand the exhibition
of his bank-books and accounts, to ascertain if he have funds.
Act of 1837, Bullard & Curry's Digest; Kenner v. Duncan's
Executors, 3 Mart. N. S. 563.
Such a distribution of funds in hand is a judgment in favor
of each creditor for the dividend awarded to him. Morgan et
al. v. Their Creditors, 4 La. 1. 174; Nolte et al. v. Their Creditors, 7 Mart. N. S. 644; Preston v. Christin, 4 La. Ann.
Rep. 102.
It is, moreover, a judgment ot assets to the amount of the
dividend, and if after such a judgment the executor fail to pay,
execution issues against him de bonis propriis. Code of Practice, Art. 994 and 1057.
'It is thus obvious that the laws of Louisiana do afford the
same remedies as the common law against estates. If the petition contained an averment that a tableau of distribution had
been filed and homologated, confessing the possession of assets,
and awarding full payment to the plaintiff, then she would be
in precisely the same position with a creditor having a common law judgment against an executor, and could maintain
her action of devastavit. The petition contains no such allegation.
The reason of the rule applies to both systems equally.
Under neither can the executor be vexed by personal .pursuit,
until it has been established judicially that payment cannot be
obtained de bonis testatoris. Until that be ascertained, no personal action lies against the executor. All the cases cited in
13 *

150

SUPREME COURT.
McGill v. Armour.

the printed brief of plaintiff's counsel support this view of the
laws of Louisiana. The creditors and heirs may sue for an
account, but no case can be cited in which such an action as
the present has been sustained in this State, without showing
a necessity for it, by proving that payment cannot be had from
the goods of the succession.
The position assumed in plaintiff's brief, that the executor
is responsible to creditors for the property that comes into his
hands, and for his fidelity in administration, is fully admitted,
but it is denied that the courts of Louisiana will entertain a
suit in the nature of a devastavit, Without showing that the
assets of the estate have been in some form exhausted. If the
allegations of the petition be true, it is obvious that this suit is
both unnecessary and vexatious. If property to the amount
of over $ 70,000 in value has come to the hands of the defendant to pay debts of only $ 40,000, it is apparent that she is liable fpr the assets as executrix. She may be forced, under the
heavy penalties imposed by law, on a breach of-. trust, to sell
the property, collect the debts, and distribute the proceeds in
the form prescribed by law. The plaintiff does not pretend
that she has attempted to procure payment in that form. She
alleges no rule against the defenda.it, no tableau of distribution
confessing assets, - no step whatever against her in her representative capacity, taken ineffectually. It is idle to say that
the executrix retains and appropriates to her own use the property and funds of the' estate. If such property and funds be in
her hands, she can hold them only under the control and supervision of the court. She is compelled by law and by the duties of her office to administer and distribute, and no proof can
be received that she has not done so, except a judgment of the
proper court. Such a judgment any creditor aggrieved may
always provoke. The petition alleges no such judgment; the
suit is therefore merely vexatious, and deserves no favor.
The point is expressly decided in a case in the Louisiana Reports, and we quote the opinion at lengh, to show that the
'principles above stated are fully recognized in Louisiana.
"The plaintiff is appellant from a decree setting aside an
order of sequestration which he had previously obtained. This
order had been issued on his allegation that Tarbe and Nash
had made a surrender of their property to their creditors, in the
year 1837; that John Tarbe, one of the insolvents, had, been
appointed syndic of their creditors, and by the latter dispensed
with giving security as such; that the defendant had illegally
disposed of part of the property surrendered, by selling it at
private sale, and that he was about to dispose of a quantity of
other property belonging to the estate in the same illegal man-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

151

McGill v. Armour.

ner, to the prejudice of plaintiff and that of all the other creditors. We think that the court below did not err. The whole
proceeding appears to us irregular and unwarranted by law.
When a syndic has been legally appointed, and has taken
charge of the estate intrusted to him, no.individual creditor can
sue him for a debt, or interfere with his administration. He
may be ruled to produce his bank-book, file a tabldau of distribution, and pay privileged debts, &c., but he should not be
suffered to be harassed by suits brought by individual creditors,
who allege or fear mismanagement on his part. If he has
been guilty of malfeasance or gross negligence, he can, in due
course of law, be removed from office by the creditors, and
made liable in damages in his individual capacity. 6 Martin,
N. S. 126; Laws of 1837, p. 96.-Lallande v. Tarbe, Syndic,
15 La. Rep. 442.
.This decision was made with reference to a syndic of insolvents ; but the mode of administration, and the rules applicable
to it, are precisely the same in estates or successions.
It is thud established that the petition shows no sufficient
ground for an action of devastavit, either according to the laws
of Louisiana or the common law.
If it were admitted that such a judgment as is required at
common law could not be obtained in the State courts, this
plaintiff could not be excused from obtaining it on that account., She is a citizen of another State, and the federal courts
are open to her. She might there have obtained judgment
and issued execution against the executrix, and the return of
the writ would have justified the present action. But she
seeks to avoid compliance with the requisites of the .law,
and prefers to prosecute her suit without ascertaining by judicial proceedings that such a suit is either admissible or necessary. That she has chosen a course so irregular is significant
of the want of foundation for her demand.
Mr. Justice McLE AI delivered the opinion of the court.
A writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana brings before us this case.
A suit was commenced by the plaintiff in the Circuit Court
against the defendant, on a claim of debt amounting to the
sum of $ 7,510, with interest, which James Armour, husband
of the defendant, in his lifetime owed to the plaintiff. He died,
having executed a will and made the defendant his executrix.
'She filed her petition in the Probate Court at New Orleans,
and was duly authorized to act as executrix. At the decease
of her husband, it is alleged, a large amoupt of property came
into her hands as executrix, which she used for her own benei

152

SUPREME COURT
McGill v. .ArmouT.

fit, and neglected to pay the debts of the estate. And it averred that a misapplication of the funds has made the defendant
liable in her individual capacity, and the plaintiff prays that
she 'may be condemned to pay the above sum, &c.
The defendant demurs to the petition, on the ground that it
is not sufficient in law to charge her, for want of parties, and
that the matters are only cognizable in chancery. And she
answers that she has fully administered, having made a full
inventory of the property of said succession, and used all proper
diligence to collect the debts, and disposed of the property in
obedience to the order'of the court; made reports of her acts,
and presented a formal tableau of distribution, which was duly
approved and homologated by the Probate Court. That the
estate proved to be insolvent, and that the defendant is a creditor, recognized as such by the proper tribunal, and is entitled
to a preference, &c.
At the trial the suit was dismissed, at the plaintiff's costs.
This was a procedure at law under the forms adopted by
Louisiana, and the question is, whether it is maintainable.
The plaintiff demands a judgment de bonis propriis,against
the defendant, no other step having been taken, or notice given,
before the commencement of the present action. At common
law an executor or administrator is not chargeable on a devastavit, until a judgment shall be obtained against him. He is
bound to defend himself by legal pleading, and can have no
relief in equity. If he suffer judgment by default, it is an admission of assets, and also if he file a plea in bar which he
knows to be false. So if he pleads only the general issue, and
has a verdict against him. If he plead plene administravil,and
on this plea assets -are found to be in his hands, he is liable
only to the amount of such assets. 3 Bac. Abr., Execu-

tors, (M).
Estates by the law of Louisiana are administered under the
special orders of the Probate Court. By the Code of Practice,
Art. 984-988, no creditor is permitted to bring suit without
first presenting his claim to the administrator. If the claim be
admitted by the administratorin writing, it is filed among the
acknowledged debts of the succession. If the claim be rejected,
the creditor may bring suit. Bat a judgment gives no priority.
By articles 1167, 1168, and 1169 of the Civil Code, the curator of a vacant succession can pay no debts, except privileged
ones, until three months after the succession is opened, andt
then under the order of the judge. When the time for payment arrives, he must present his petition to the judge, with a
statement of the debts due. And if the funds in his hands

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

153

McGill v. Armour.

shall be insufficient to pay the debts in full, he is required to
make a tableau of the distribution and present it to the judge,
with a prayer that he should be authorized to make the paymenis accordingly. But if the administrator or curator "neglect or refuse to file a tableau of the estate, and obtain the
order of the judge to make payment, he can be compelled to
do so on the demand of the interested, or in default thereof
render himself responsible in his personal capacity." Kennet
et al. v. Duncan's Executors, 3 Martin, N. S. 570.
This last procedure is as indispensable under the Louisiana
law to authorize a proceeding against the executor or administrator to make him personally responsible, as an action and
judgment are necessary at common law to charge him with a
devastavit. And it does not appear from the petition in the
case before us, that any order of the judge was obtained as
required, or that any proceedings were had to compel the defendant to exhibit a tableau of distribution, by which it would
appear whether the executrix had assets in her hands to pay
the whole or any part of the debt of the plaintiff. This action
was commenced at law, and the fact is alleged that'a large
amount of assets came into the possession of the defendant
which have been misapplied, on which ground a personal
liability is sought to be enforced against her. This the law
does not authorize. An executor or administrator by the laws
of Louisiana is considered, in this respect,,as a syndic of an
insolvent estate. In 6 Martin, N. S. 126, the court-say, when a
syndic has been legally appointed, and has taken charge of the.
estate intrusted to him, no individual creditor can sue hirii for
a debt or interfere with his administration. He may be ruled
to produce his bank-book, file a tableau of distribution, &c., but
he should not be suffered to be harassed by suits brought by
individual creditors. who allege or fear mismanagement on his
part.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
be
heard on the transcript of the recThis cause came on to
ora from the "Circuit'Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel On: consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this case be. and the
same is hereby, affirmed, withi costs.

