586

SUPREME COURT.
Larman v. Tisdale's Heirs.

the eleventh section of that act. It protects purchasers under
the United States, but not the government itself, as to any
lands not surveyed and sold.
But aside from this consideration, for the reasons previously
stated, we adjudge the claim to be invalid, and order the petition to be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition
of the claimants

ISAAC LAn~uAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES TISDALE'S HEIRS.

The fifty-fourth rule of this court, requiring an appearance to be entered on or before
the second dav of the term next succeeding that at which the ease is docketed,
does not include an adjourned term; but applies only to regular terms.

Mn. STANTON, of counsel for the defendants in error, moved
the court, on the 28th of February, 1851, to dismiss this case,
under the fifty-fourth rule of the court, which rule is repeated
amongst the preliminary matter in 8 Howard, and -is as follows :
"No. 54.
"Ordered, that where an appearance is not entered on the
record for either the plaintiff or defendant on or before the second day of the term next succeeding that at which the case is
docketed, it shall be dismissed at the costs of the plaintiff2'
Whereupon this court, not being nowz here sufficiently advised of and concerning what order to render in the premises,
took time to consider.
On the 4th of March, 1851, Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The fifty-fourth rule applies to cases docketed at the regular
term; and not to an adjourned term. For it may happen that
an adjourned term may be held immediately preceding the
regular session.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

587

Hogg et al. v. Emerson.

This case was not docketed until after the close of the~regular term of the court, and is, therefore; not within the rule.
Order.
un consideration of the motion made in this case by Mr.
Stanton, on a prior day of the present term, to wit, on Friday
the 28th ultimo, it is now here ordered by the court, that said
motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

PETER HOGG AND CORNELIUS H. DELADTATER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. Jonx B. E~mRsoN.
The decision of this court in the ease of Hogg et alv.Emerson, 6 Howard,437,
reviewed and nffirmed.
The specitication of Emerson's patent "for certain improvements in the steamengine and in the mode of propelling therewith either vessels on the water or carriage, on the land," conqtituted a part of the patent, and must be construed with it.
Anterior to 1836, the law did not imperatively require that the specifitation be
made a part of the patent, but the inventor had a right to advise the Commissioner of Patents to make the specification a part of the patent, and it was peculiarly
proper that le should comply with the request.
This court again decides that the patent ijsufficiently clear and certain, and does not
cover more groand than one patent may cover. Only one is necessary for two
kindred and auxiliary inventions.
The dra'wings which accompany th, ,pecification may be referred to for illustration.
Within what time drawingi ought to have been replaced, after the destruction of
the Patent-Office by fire, so as to avoid the imputation of negligence or of a design to milead the public, was a question which was properly left to tie jury.
The principles stated, within who.e operation a jury can properly act in assessing
damages against the maker of a patented machine.

Tins case was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.
It was reported in 6 Howard, 437, and at the conclusion of
the report of that case is the following note: "9NOTE. - After the delivery of this opinion, the counsel for
the plaintiffs in error suggested that other questions were made
below, which they desired t6 be considered, and therefore moved
for another certiorari to bring them up. This was allowed,

and judgment suspended till the next term."
Another certiorariwas issued, which brought up the entire
record. The case, as now to be reported, consists of three
records, in parts. Instead of republishing ihose parts already
reported, they will only be referred to; and if the reader is

desirous to invstigate the case thoroughly, he must read this.
report inconjunction with that in 6 Howard.

