DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

63

The United States v.-Boisdor6 et al.
THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ETIENNE ALPHONSO BoisDonti,
LAURENT BOISDORg, SIDNEY BOISDORA, MATHILDE AND ALERINE
NICOLAS, WIDOW OF MANUEL F.&BRE DANONY, CAROLINE NICOLAS,
ELISE NICOLAS, JOSEPH MANUEL DE LABARRE, DELPHINE VICTOIRE
DE LABARRE REAL AND 3nn HUSBAND CHRISTOVAL REAL, Louis
DE.AN, ANTOINE BOISDOR, AND MANATTE DETEAN PARDON AND
HER HUSBAND VINCENTE PARDON, HEIRS or Louis BOISDOR9, DECEASED.
imperfect title under a Spanish con jession, this court again
In adjudicating upon
adopts the rule laid down in 10 Peters, 330, 331; viz Can a court of equity,according t its rules and the laws of Spain, consider the conscence of t
he bethatupon
in the province,
lawful
theclaimant,
acts of his
bythe
atrctedfor
king so
it,
by an equity
the land claimed
held authorities
and
a trustee
cam~e
at the
and
befor
the public domain,
fromStatesth
oftosothemuch
amounting to a severance
United
ceded
country towas
the applied
timerle,
This
the following case, brings out the results stated below.
of
the acting Governor
viz::
from
a memorial
3, in consequence
the Surveyor-General,
In 178rLouisiaa,
Trudeau, Miro,
to Boisdor
order
following
issued the of
"Don Carlos Lavean Trudau will establish .Louis Boisdor6 upon the exteit of
grouhd which he solicits in the preceding memorial, situated in the section of
country commonly called Achoucouponlos,,commencing in front from the plantation belonging to Philip Saucier, a resident of said country, down to the bayou
same
River;asthe
to Pearl living
in
the depth
with caused
well
Bayou,
Mfosquito
called
the neighbors
to down
being
no prejudice
andVillage
being vacant,
tohwriting, signing with
front as upon th' depth; which measures he will reduceorder
I may furnish
that
to me, in
Trdawa
ae , and
the same
sua w nremit
pyretre
am
ricaeitwu
partic
aforesaid
haebe
the Ifg
bnig
bdjuidcto ove tselnd
e
n i
foo
tlice
with a orresndi ti
i rtereted
city.e
hchwould e uefulito th nei
t age stoc of cte
su
aistil slave
o theigifonlanddby ai ich
of the
a rig
ty hcgaeleed
Theuraee
jursisMirctiZon.
were
o
fpulfil
cohenl
granty
1808nnthet
Ion
sighteploy
nea s tgnall
am datthe
teavradnr
hn rd
thered ofudeu
hsngrant.
whichl
family
cone
ish nou
athwoleh
o
tes-o
comncthre,
whicht
reintntfrom
en,
Besieth belningtoPhivi
oe t moear inwih the same
et
theh
talited Mseion cilg orn , i or
w
. litica
which
fnd.thedecee
obligats
o notdc
eved
to bein auda
he
juriasnt
tno
th neerinswel
itd
vae,
wa obei
conrmsha
tol
he Sre or-nera
oridangave dpirin
of
t~he oeno
THISt wasna a pp h ealr the itrce Cuto the Uiniwtd
now bo
e an uertain thict
Btis the scon of the ctis w
he(4de
urete
bo
di
rt. aeto
The de
f er
r the
orde
an
byssarose
survye ease
Stat
aio. ts
182
26hMy,
nd
wl
the
ourigina
the
neo
the
to
confrm stric
haven
not hded
mig
alxdthgri
tesett rnt.
est;bito uis urspon
tDani
fou
ionclue
would
d ito efir schn a
6phin
aveabe
of cin oul
oici the
the csce

1844or(a Sagtc attle which Aolpetto

to the- iy
aseprete
egbrn

Large, 52), as revived and rewnacted by the act eof June 17,
District
aistrict Court of the United States for theS"oern
a large
claiming
Boisdorad
Louis
of
heirs
the
by
of Missjssisippi,

64

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

tract of land lying between the Bay-of St. Louis and Pearl
River, in the State of Mississippi, and below the thirty-first degree of north latitude.
The circumstances were these.
On the 1st of April, 1783, Louis Boisdor6 presented the following application to Miro, the acting Governor-General of
Louisiana.
" Seror Governor-General :- I, Louis Boisdor6, a citizen
of this city, do, with due respect, present myself to your Ex,ellency and say, that, wishing to form an establishment and
2ow-house (cattle-raising farm) in the vicinity of the Bay of
St. Louis, in the place commonly called Achoucoupoulous, for
all my family, which is very considerable, as is well known to
your Excellency; and m6reover, for the purpose of employing
all my negroes on it, and keeping a considerable stock of cattle which I have already on the place, the place being almost
uninhabitable, only fit for a vaqueria (cattle-raising farm):
May it please your Excellency, in consideration of what is
above explained, and of the benefit that will result to the capital (city) from such a considerable cattle-raising establishment
as the one which I have commenced to form in the said place,
and in the viciily of said city, to grant to me the portion of
ground which is vacant in-tbe said place (section of country),
known under the name of Achoucoupoulous, running from the
plantation of Philip Saucier up to the bayou called Bayou. of
Mosquito Village, formerly inhabited by Mr. (paper torn off),
and running in depth down to Pearl River, in order that I may
form with facility the 'aforesaid establishment and cow-house
(cattle-raising farm) for alI my family as aforesaid; a favor
which I hope, according to justice, from the granting power
which is vested in you.
"New Orleans, 1st April, 1783:
L. BoIsDoa0'
(Signed,)
TUpon which application, the Governor-General issued the
following, viz. : "Niw Orleans, 26th April, 1783.
" Considering the sufficient reasons explained to me above,
and having regard to the advantage and utility which will result to the capital from the establishment of a cow-pen (vaqzena) in that section of the country, little suited to any kind of
culture, the surveyor of the province, Don Carlos Laveau Trudeau, will establish Don Louis Boisdor6 on the tiact of land
which -he solicits in the preceding memorial, situated in the
eeofion of couLtry commonly callbd Achoucoupoulous, taking

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

65

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

as the front from the plantation of Philip Saucier, a resident
of said section of country, to the bayou called the Bayou of
the Village of Maringouins, with a depth unto Pearl River, it
being vacant, and causing no prejudice to the neighboring inhabitants, as well in front as in depth; which proceedings he
will extend in continuation, sign and forward to me, with the
preceding, that I may furnish the party interested a title in due
form.
In 1808, Boisdorg having died, his widow authorized Don
Gilbert Guillemard, a lieutenant-colonel in the army, to obtain an order for a survey from Morales, then in Pensacola.
In the petition Guillemard recites as follows: " And although, at that period, on account of the multifarious occupations which engrossed the attention of Charles Laveau Trudeau,
the surveyor, in relation to the admeasurement and survey of
lands of value, and on account of the great expense to be incurred previously, he did not proceed to the admeasurement
and marking out the boundaries of said tract of land, but notwithstanding transported and conveyed thither a large stock of
cattle, and placed thereon a stock-keeper, named Augustus
Mallet, who remains on to the present day, to preserve the
right of property in himself, which the said Boisdor6 in his lifetime possessed," &c.
This petition was referred to the fiscal minister of the royal
treasury, who, on the 7th of April, 1808, ordered the SurveyorGeneral to make out a map and certificate of survey to be returned to him.
On the 23d of May, 1810, Pintado addressed a letter of instructions to a deputy surveyor, instructing him to lay down
the lines of the grant as follows : The demand of M. S. Boisdor6, senior, is conceived in a
manner a little confused in regard to "he place, for he says in
his memorandum of the 1st of April, 1783, that the land whichhe claims is on a place called Achoucoupoulous, commencing
from Philip Saucier's plantation, as far as the bayou called
the Mosquito" Village, formerly inhabited by Madam Susser,
extending back to Pearl River. This description causes sufficient embarrassment in determining the form or figure which
the land ought to have; however, as he calls the front the
distance from Saucier's plantation to the Bayou of Mosquito
Village, the depth, as far as Pearl River, can be understood
only by two lines drawn from the said last two points, so as
to strike the said Pearl River; that is to say, the easternmost of
the three which take this name; and these lines ought natural-

Go

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

ly to run to the west, one from Saucier's plantation, and the
other from Mosquito Village. The little sketch (crouquis) an•nexed will give you a clearer idea. Though there is no geometrical precision, it approaches, notwithstanding, to the figure
of the place. You will send it back to me when you have finished
&c.
I Onthe
thebusiness,'
30th of May,
1810, Pintado, the Surveyor-General,
returned a certificate, with a map. In the certificate he says
that "the map represents and shows the tract of land, with the
shape, figure, and extent, and the boundaries, bounds, and confines, natural and artificial, which should serve for limits," and
then refers to a more particular map to be made hereafter by
any one of his deputies, or by any other person, "so that the
nortnern boundary shall be bounded by lands belonging to the
king, on the south by the bank of the sea, on the east by the
same and a part o the Bay of St. Louis, and on the west by
the above-mentioned Pearl River."
In order to understand the argument and decision, it will be
necessary to insert a sketch of this map.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

67

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

Under the act of Congress passed on the 25th of April, 1812
(1 Land Laws, 208), this claim was presented to the commissioner appointed for the district east of Pearl River. Mr.
Crawford, the commissioner, reported that the land was not
cultivated, and not inhabited.
Under the act of Congress passed on the 3d of March, 1819
(I Land Laws, 316), the claim was again presented to thfe
register and receiver of the land-office at Jackson Court-House,
who made the following special report: "No. 2. This claim is founded on an order of survey issued
by Governor Miro in favor of Louis Boisdor6, confirmed to his
widow, Marguerite Doussinj by the Intendant Morales, 4th
April, 1808. Although a map "orconjectural plan of the limits
of the above claim, made by the Surveyor-General, Pintado,
the 30th of May, 1810, accompanies the title papers, yet it does
not appear to be the result of an actual survey, nor to have
been made with geometrical precision, but merely intended for
the direction of such persons as might be employed to make
the survey. No survey appears to have been made. This
claim extends from the Bay of St. Louis to the mouth of Pearl
River, and is supposed to contain several hundred thousand
acres.
"Land-office, Jackson Court-House, July 11th, 1820.
(Signed,)
WILLIAm BARTON, Reg-ister.

"Attest:

WILLIAm BARNETT, Receiver.
YOHN ELLIOT, Clerk."

Under the act of the 24th of Mlay, 1828 (1 Land Laws, 445),
this claim was again presented to the register and receiver at
Jackson Court-House. All the documents were submitted to
this board, together with the depositions -of sundry persons,
showing the genuineness of the signatures of the Spanish officers, the locality of the land, and its possession.
The commissioners made the following report: "R emarks.
"Claim No. 4. This claim is founded on an order of survey
issued by Governor 1\Iiro, in favor of Louis Boisdor6, and confirmed to his widow, Marguerite Doussin, by the Intendant
Morales, 4th April, 1808. It does not appear by the title
papers that an actual survey was made with geometrical precision; yet a map, or conjectural plan, definitely fixing the
limits of the claim, was made by the Surveyor-General, Pintado, the 30th of lay, 1810. This caim extends from Pearl
River to the Bay of St. Louis, and is supposed to contain about
one hundred thousand acres.

68

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

"The additional testimony adduced to us proves incontestably that this claim has been inhabited, and a part of the land
kept under cultivation, upwards of forty years. It is also in
testimony before us, that the extent of this claim was distinctly known to the neighbors, and that the claimant set up his
claim to the whole limits contained within the before-mentioned
figurative plan. The above claim is forfeited under the Spanish laws, usages, and customs, for want of inhabitation and cultivation within the time prescribed by those laws and regulations. Yet, as the inhabitation and cultivation appear to be
very ancient, it is conceived that this claim ought to be confirmed for a reasonable quantity.
WILLIAm HowzE, Register.
(Signed,)
G. B. DLAmERON, Receiver.
,"Attest:
VALENTINE IDELMAS, Clerk."
(Signed,)
By an act of the 28th of May, 1830 (1 Land Laws, 468),
certain of the claims reported by the above-named register and
receiver were confirmed, and the act has this special provision
respectihg the claim in controversy: "And provided, also, that
the claim of the representatives of Louis Boisdor6, numbered
four, in report numbered three, shall not be confirmed to more
than twelve hundred and eighty acres."
Under this act, a certificate was issued, and a survey made,
of the twelve hundred and eighty acres, by Elihu Carver, a
deputy surveyor, on the 6th of November, 1830, which was
approved by the Surveyor-General south of Tennessee, on the
lltli of August, 1832.
The act of Congress, passed in 1844, reviving and regnacting
the law of 1824, has been already referred to, in the opening of
this statement.
On the 1st of February, 1845, the heirs of Boisdor6 presented
a petition to the District Court of the United States, which
petition was afterwards amended in November, 1845. This
amended petition disregarded the figurative plan of Pintado,
and claimed that 4 the form and extent of their grant, to which,
by the manifest and only reasonable construction of their concession, they are entitled, is that which would result and be
produced by regarding as a base an assumed straight line between the two points called for as the front of the grant; viz.
from the beginning point, at the north side of Philip Saucier's
plantation, to the Bayou of the Mosquito Village; and thence,
by two parallel perpendicular lines, extended from each extremity of said base or front line, till each side line in its extension intersected the Pearl River."

DECEMBER TERI,

1850.

69

The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

They aver that their title was protected and secured by the
treaty of St. Ildefonso of October, 1800, and by the treaty of
Louisiana of 1803, and by the laws of nations, and would, by
the laws of Spain and the laws of France, have been perfected
into a complete title, had not the sovereignty of the country
been transferred to the United States.
They aver that their ancestor, the said Louis Boisdor6, and
themselves, and their agents and representatives, have asserted
their right of ownership, and maintained possession by actual
inhabitation and cultivation of part of said land in behalf of
the whole, from 1783 to the present time, and kept up a large
herd of cattle and a grazing establishment on said land from
the date of the grant until many years after the jurisdiction of
the Spanish government had been superseded by that of the
United States.
To this petition the District Attorney for the United States
demurred, but the demurrer was overruled, and he then filed an
answer.
The answer of the United States in substance denies that
the concession or order of survey conveyed any title whatever,
but insists that it is void for uncertainty, and that nothing was
ever done, during the existence of the Spanish authority in the
territory, to perfect it. It denies any authority in Morales to
do what he is alleged to have done. It denies that Louis
Boisdor6 maintained possession by actual habitation and cultivation, as alleged in the petition, from 1783; and insists that,
for want of such inhabitation, settlement, and cultivation, the
claim, if it ever had any existence, was forfeited by the laws,
usages, and customs of the Spanish government.. The United
States admit that the 6laim was Presented to several boards of
commissioners, but deny that the petitioners, or those representing them, ever complied fully with the acts of Congress, or
presented any sufficient and competent evidence of title, or any
evidence which would justify a favorable report. That the act
of the 28th of May, 1830, provides that it shall not be confirmed to more than twelve hundred and eighty acres, and they
rely on that act as a final and complete rejection of the claim,
and as such final action upon it by the government of the
United States, that the court has no jurisdiction to try it.
They admit that they have caused the land to be surveyed,
and have granty and sold large portions thereof, and that the
settlers and puichasers are now in possession, and they are
necessarily parties to the suit. They do not admit that the
original Spanish documents and title papers were translated
and recorded as required by law, but require full and legal
proof. They deny that the claim is protected by the -treaties of

70

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v, Boisdor6 et al.

1800 and 1803, or by the law of nations, or that it would or
ought to have been perfected into a complete title if the sovereignty of the country had not changed. They insist that the
concession was conditional, and that the grantee should have
occupied and possessed within and for a limited time, and
should have established without delay, or within a reasonable
time, a cow-pen, for the public benefit; and, that a survey
should have been made within a reasonable time, and made a
part of the public records, so that the public might know what
land, if any, was to be separated from the public domain; apd
say that none of these requisites were complied with, and that
the claim was forfeited according to the Spanish laws, customs,
and usages. They further answering say, that they have been
-informed, and charge the truth to be, that the petitioners accepted the donation of twelve hundred and eighty acres, for which
Congress confirmed their claim by the act of 1830, and it is
now too late for them to disclaim the same; that it was surveyed for them by Elihu Carver, a deputy surveyor, and his
survey approved by the Surveyor-General south of Tennessee;
and submit that such acceptance of the twelve hundred and
eighty acres is a complete extinguishment of their claim or
right to any greater quantity; but whether accepted or not,
they insist that the act of 1830 was, such a final action of the
government of the United States as deprives the court of jurisdiction.
A great number of depositions were taken on both sides.
Those on the part of the claimants were intended chiefly to
prove the genuineness of the documents, the heirship of the
claimants, and.the locality and possession of the land. The
deposition of Bringier, Surveyor-General of Louisiana, was
also taken as to the practicability of locating the grant, who
concurred'with Pintado in his instructions of the 23d of May,
1810, and answered as follows: "In answer to the third interrogatory deponent says: In the
case stated, I should first survey the front from point to point,
and then run back two lines perpendicular to the front, and
parallel to each other, to the natural boundary in the rear."
On the part of the United States the depositions (amongst
others) of Ludlow and Downing were taken. These persons
had both been surveyors-general in Mississippi, and testified as
follows.
Mr.Ludlow said: " Answer to interrogatory second: I have examined the order
of survey of Governor Miro to Louis Boisdor6, dated April
26th, 1783, and believe the survey to be practicable, provided
the plantation of Philip Saucier and the Bayou of Mosquito

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

71

The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

Village can be identified; and believe the survey should be
made by finding a straight line between the above-mentioned
points and raising perpendiculars upon said line, at its extremities, extending backto Pearl River; provided there are no controlling circumstances to give direction to the side lines, such
as adjoining claims, &c. The instructions of the SurveyorGeneral Pintado are clearly erroneous, as they, if followed,
would give no side line on the west."
Mlr. Downing said:
"Answer to second interrogatory: The phrase in the grant
to Louis Boisdor6, Ithe front thereof to commence from the
plantation of Philip Saucier,' I and running to the Bayou of the
osquito Village,' is not sufficiently definite to enable a surveyor to fix upon a beginning point or corner; both the begin-'
ning point and the froht line seem to be left to the discretion
of the surveyor, and it is questionable whether any two surveyors would settle upon the same point for a beginning. I
certainly couldnot adopt the views of Pintado, the Spanish.
Surveyor-General, for, in the diagram filed in this case, and to
which he refers in his instructions, he places what should be
the most eastwardly front corner on the back line of the Saucier
plantation; this .seems to be his understanding of the word
from, in the grant. A line from this point to the mouth of the
Bayou of Iosquito Village would form a base, from each end
of which the side lines should run at right angles; or, in other
words, the side lines of a Spanish grant, when the course or
quantity is not given or particularly specified, shall run ' as near
as practicable' at right angles from the front or shore. This.
has been the practice on bayous and rivers, as well as on the
sea-shore. In the present case, a line run from the mouth of
the Bayou of the Mosquito Village, at right angles from a base
line between the front corners, would apparently, for severa
miles, range close along and parallel with the east margin of
Pearl River, and consequently conflict with the uniform practice of the location and survey of grants upon all navigable
streams and shores. Upon the whole, I think the calls of the
grant in question so indefinite that no two surveyors, having
regard to the usages governing in surveys of Spanish grants,
would coincide in the survey of it as to form, quantity," &c.
In November, 1847, the cause came on for trial in the District Court, when a decree was passed, confirming the title bf
the claimants, and directing the survey to be made as 'follows : -

"And it is further adjudged and decreed, that the tract of
land, whereof title is so hereby confirmed, shall be surveyed
and bounded as follows, namely: having its beginning come;,

72

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

at that point on the sea-shore, at the entrance of the Bay of St.
Louis, where the southeast corner of Joseph and Martial Nicaise's claim, formerly the claim of Philip Saucier, has been established by the survey made thereof by authority of the United
States, as approved and recorded; thence southwestwardly,
by the meanders of the sea-shore, to the mouth of East Pearl
River; thence up said river to the point on the northeast side
where the easternmost mouth of the Bayou Maringouin, otherwise called Mulatto Bayou, intersects and empties into the
said Pearl River, and which mouth, so here intended to be described, is identical with that sometimes called the lower
mouth of the Pearl River cut-off, and which point shall constitute the second front, corner of the claim., From one of
these, front corners to the other, in a direct course, shall be
drawn a theoretic base line, and from each extremity of said
base line, and perpendicular thereto, shall be projected the side
lines of said claim, to be laid down in a direct course and parallel to each other, till each, respectively, shall intersect the
Pearl River, between which two points of intersection the
meanders of Pearl River shall constitute the conjunction line
of said survey. And it is further ordered, that the surveyor
who shall execute the boundary hereby directed shall note and
report all intersections of the side lines with the public sur-eys of the United States heretofore extended over said land;
and especially note and show the form and extent of all interfering private claims held adversely to the petitioners, under
grant or authority of the United States, which may be found
upon said side lines and projecting into said claim, as well as
every other such adverse claims as lie wholly within said
survey.
"It is further adjudged and decreedf that all such adverse
claims and parts of claims as aforesaid, so found within the
survey hereby directed, shall be, and the same are hereby, exempted from the operation of this decree, so far as effects their
validity; but in place and stead of the lands included in such
claims, the petitioners are hereby adjudged to have right *and
claim to a like quantity of lands from out of the public domain, as by law in such case is provided.
(Signed,)
S. J. U1noLsorr."
From this decree the United States appealed to this court.
The case was argued by r.Crittenden (Attorney-General),
for the United States, and by 01r. lVolvey E. Howard, with
whom was ,Vr.Henderson, for the appellees.
X2lr. Crittenden made the following points: L That the proceedings of the Spanish authorities of Pen-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

73

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

sacola in 1808 and 1810, relative to the confirmation and survey of the lands in the concession to Boisdor6, were null and
void, the Spanish government having then no authority over
that part of the country, the same being embraced within the
limits of the cession of Louisiana by Spain to France, and by
the latter to the United States. § 14 of Act of 26th March,
1804, erecting Louisiana into two territories (1 Land Laws,
114); Foster and Elam v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 254; Lee v. Garcia,
12 Pet. 511; United State's v. Reynes, 9 How. 127.
IL That the concession by Governor Miro to Louis Boisdor6 is void, because no land was severed from the public domain by a survey giving it a certain location previous to the
treaty of cession, and the description in it is so vague, indefinite, and uncertain, that no location can be given to the land.
United States v. Miranda, 16 Pet. 156, 160; 15 Pet. 184, 215,
275, 319; 10 Pet. 331; 3 How. 787; 5 How. 26.
Upon looking at the maps in the record, it will be seen that
the plantation of Philip Saucier, now belonging to Joseph and
Martial Nicaise, is on the Bay of St. Louis, and the first call
in the concession is to commence from that plantation. But
from what side or part of it, or from what particular or specific point, is not stated. Pintado's figurative map commences
it in the rear of Saucier's plantation, at the northwest corner;
while the claimants and the court below commence it on the
sea-shore of the Bay of St. Louis, at exactly the contrary
point, - the southeast corner. The decree says, "having its
beginning corner at that point on the sea-shore, at the entrance
of the Bay of St. Louis, where the southeast corner of Joseph
and Martial NicaisEs claim, formerly the claim of Philip
Saucier, has been established by the survey made thereof by
authority of the United States." There is then no specific
starting-point under the first call of the concession; and the
second call is equally vague and indefinite.
Boisdor' and'his heirs, from 1783 to 1800, during which the
country remained under the 'dominion of Spain, seventeen
years, had no survey made by which the location of the lands
intended to be conceded could be identified; and shall it be left
to them now to choose a poiht for the beginning of a survey,
or can the court arbitrarily fix upon such a point ? There is
certainly no call in the concession to commence on the Bay of
St. Louis, as has been decreed by the court below, and there is
therefore no water boundary in the case. Pintado knew better than to commence on the Bay of St. Louis; for, while he
speaks in his letter to Lorrens of the confusion and embarrassment of the description, he keeps so far as he can guess to
VOL. XI.

7

74

SUPREME C OURIT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

the calls of the concession, as to commence from one of +be
rear corners of Saucier's plantation.
The next call is the Bayou of Maringouins, or Mosquito
Village, nearly due west from the Bay of St. Louis, in the direction of Pearl River, but short of it. There is no specific
point fixed on the bayou, which, according to the evidence in
thelcase, is from seven to nine miles .in length, and navigable
for vessels used in the lake trade. Is the mouth or the head
intended, or what intermediate point? Monet, one of the witnesses- for the claimants, says the head. In answer to the
fourth interrogatory. fqrthe claimants, he says: "The head of
which (bayou) makes one of the corners designated in the title
papers of said claim." Others think it should be the mouth,
as decreed by the court.
. The decree of the District Court, commencing on the Bay of
St. Louis, below Saucier's plantation, gives to the claimants,
from this point, all around the coast-of the sea-shore to the
mouth of East Pearl River, thence up that river to the easternmost mouth of the bayou, which it fixes as the second call of
the concession. Now, with respect to the line thus decreed to
be run round the sea-coast, the concession is not only vague
an& uncertain, but there does not appear to be any call whatever in it which sanctions such a constructioni, or gives it the
slightest countenance. The decree then directs that, between
the corner thus fixed on the bayou, and the corner on the Bay
of St. Louis, a theoretic base line shall be drawn, and from
each of its extremities, and perpendicular to it, there shall be
drawn, parallel to each other, two side lines, to run until they
strike Pearl River, between which lines the meanders of the
river shall constitute the conjunction line of the survey. This
theoretic base line is about fifteen miles in length.
It will be observed, from the maps of the country, that the
line from the mouth of the bayou will run nearly parallel to
Pearl 'River, and strike it about ten miles from its mouth ; and
that the other line, commencing on the Bay of St. Louis, will
strike it at least fifty miles above, and both may, on an actual
survey, go beyond even these distances. The last-mentioned
line, it will be remembered, is by the concession declared to
commence from the plantation of Philip Saucier; but so far
from the line fixed by the court below commencing on the
southeast corner of that plantation being ia consistency with
the calls of the. cdncession, it actually"cuts olf the greater part
of Saucier's plantation. In fact, these lines run up, instead of
back to the river. Pintado, in his letter before mentioned, bad
a juster notion of what " approached" to the calls of the concession ... He says, "This description causes sufficient embar-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

75

The United States v. Boisdore et al.

rassment in determining the form or figure which the land
ought to have; however, as he calls the front the distance
from Saucier's plantation to the Bayou of Mosquito Village, the
depth, as far as Pearl River,.can be understood only by two
lines drawn from the said last two points, so as to strike the
said Pearl River; that is to say, the easternmost of the three
which take this name; and these lines ought naturally to run
to the west, one frorfi Saucier's plantation, and the other from
Mosquito Village. The little sketch annexed will give you a
clearer idea. Though there is no geometrical precision, it approaches to the figure of the place." Boisdor himself never
dreamed of such a magnificent principality for his cow-pen as
is claimed by the petitioners, and given by the decree of the
court below. See the testimony of Rochon and Benite, filed
by the claimants before the second board of commissioners.
The locality, then, of the land not being ascertained, either
by the concession or a survey, was not acknowledged by the
authorities of Spain, and no effort was made to identify it before the treaty of cession. Nothing was done to withdraw the
land intended to be granted from the mass of the public domain, or to show what it was that was to be withdrawn. It
therefore remained in Spain at the time of the cessiori to
France, and passed to the United States by the cession of
France to them.
IIL That the concession was only an incipient step towards
a title depending upon the establishing of a cow-pen by Boisdor6 within a reasonable time, and after being put in possession of the land, and of a survey being made .and returned to
the Governor, so that it might be known what land was severed
from the public domain; and that none of these being done,
there was no just or valid claim on the Spanish government to
make a perfect title, and of course none on the United States.
The act of 1824, in describing the claims which might b5e
prosecuted under it, says, inter alia, they are such as "might
have been perfected into a complete title under, and in conformity to, the laws, usages, and customs of the government
under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of
the country been transferrea to the United States."
The considerations which induced Governor Miro to make
this gratuitous concession are set forth ;n it. " Considering
the sufficient reasons explained to me above, and having red
gard to the advantage and utility which will result to the capital from the establishment of a cow-pen." The importance
which was attached by the Spanish government to the raising
of cattle, is shown in the royal regulation of 1754 (2 White's
Recop. 62), and in the Recopilacion of the Laws of the Indies,

76

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et-al.

49 and 50, No. 74 and 76. Anl by the same laws it wa.
required that the grantees should take actual possession within
three months. Ibid. 51, No. 81. See also. the second and
third articles of O'Reilly's regulations made in 1770, which
were in force in Louisiana at the date of this concession.
Ibid. 229.
In this case, the concession directs the Surveyor- General to
establish Boisdor6 on the land, and to forward his, the Surveyor-General's, proceedings to the Governor, that a fitip in
form might be furnished to Boisdor6. This was never done,
and no legal survey was ever made.
The twelfth article of O'Reilly's regulations, above referred
to, is as follows. "All grants shall be made in the name of the
king, by the Governor-General of the Province, who will at the
same time appoint a surveyor to fix the bounds thereof, both
in front and depth, in presence of the judge ordinary of the
district, and of two adjoining settlers, who shall be present at
the survey; the above-mentioned four persons shall sign the
proces verbal which shall be made thereof, and the surveyor
shall make three copies of the same, one of which shall be deposited in the office of the scrivener of the government, another
shall be delivered to the Governor-General, and the third to the
proprietor, to be annexed to the titles of his grant." The directions of the concession are in accordance with this regulation,,
and they are evidently made with reference to it. It furnishes
the best criterion of what had to be done by Boisdor6 before
his grant could be perfected.
Suppose that BoisdorS or his heirs had applied to the Spanish authorities in 1800, seventeen years after the date of the
concession to him, without proof that he had occupied the
land for the purposes mentioned in the concession for the first
five years after date (the earliest occupation in evidence is
1788), or that he had been put in possession, and without
any survey or other identification of the land, there -was no
obligation on them to perfect the title. 10 Peters, 331. The
claimants themselves show. this, by their own statements, in
their application to Morales in 1808.
IV. That the proviso'of the act of 1830, declaring that this
claim "shall not be confirmed to more than twelve hundred
and eighty acres,' prevents the recovery sought in this case;
and that the said twelve hundred and eighty acres were in full
satisfaction of the claim, and were accepted'and surveyed for
the benefit of those claiming under the petitioners.
In the clause of the act of 1824 conferring jurisdiction on
the court, it is declared that the several acts of Congress on the
subject of these claims are to be taken into consideration. by

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

77

The United States v. Boisdor& et al.

the court in deciding on them. This proviso, therefore, stafiding unrepealed, is the declared will of Congress that this claim
shall not be confirmed for more than is stated. All claims under incomplete titles in the country acquired from. France by
the treaty of 1803 addressed themselves to the political power,
and Congress had a right to confirm part of a claim, and refuse confirmation for the residue, if they supposed it just to do
so. 3 How. 788.
In the case of The United States v. Reynes, the coul, gave
effect to the act of 1804, which declares that all grants in
Louisiana subsequent to the treaty of St. Ildefonso are null
and void. That the quantity of land given was intended as a
full satisfaction is apparent from the words employed. On the
6th of November, 1830, the twelve hundred and eighty acres
were surveyed, and the. plat and survey approved 11th August,
1832. This rendered the title complete, for the act does not
direct patents to issue. It will be seen from the. testimony of
Carver, Monet, and Daniel, that the twelve hundred and eighty
acres cover the plantation of Francis Saucier and part of that
of Daniel, who were purchasers under Boisdor6's heirs. On
the question arising on this point, see 3 How. 788.
V. That on the 26th of April, 1783, the date of the concession by Governor Miro to Louis Boisdor6, the authorities of
Spain had no power to make grants in that part of the country
where the lands lie, the cession by Great Britain to Spain not
having been made until the definitive treaty of peace of the 3d
of September, 1783. 1 Kent's Com. 169; Wheaton's Elements
of International Law, 572; Clark v. United States, 3 Wash.
104; United States v. Hayward, 2 Gal. 501; Poole v. Fleeger,
11 Peters, 210; Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 99; and the
cases of Foster v. Neilson, Garcia v. Lee, and United States v.
Reynes, cited under the first point.
VI. That there was no sufficient evidence of the execution
of the concession by Governor 1Mliro; and that the proof offered
in the shape of ex parte affidavits, supposed to have been before the several boards of commissioners, was not competent.
VII. That the petitioners should have made parties to this
suit persons claiming the lar~ds, or any portion of them, under
a different title, or holding 'possession otherwise than uinder
them; and the demurrer ought to have been sustained.
The act of 1824 directs such persons to be made parties.
By the second section of the act of 24th May, 1828, to continue in force for a limited time, and to amend, the act of 1824
(1 Land Laws, 442), so much of the last-mentioned act as required claimants to make adverse parties to the suit, or to show
the court what adverse claimants there might be on the land,
7*

78

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

was repealed. It is said that the act of 1844 revived the act
of 1824 as amended by that of 1828. That, however, must
depend upon the intention of Congress, to be gathered from
the language of the act itself. It refers to the act of 1824 by
its name, reciting both its date and title. It does not revive
the whole of its provisions, but expressly excludes all such
portions of said act as referred to the Territory of Arkansas.
Here is a special reference to this act only, in a form of expression as clear and perspicuous as can be employed. Again,
it says, "and the provisions of that part of the aforesaid act
hereby revived." What is still more conclusive and decisive
is the following provision, viz.: "as if these States had been
enumerated in the original act hereby revived." The act of
1824 is not only declared to be revived, but reenacted, excluding all such portions of said act as referred to the Territory of
Arkansas.
It is not reasonable to suppose that Congress intended to
revive and regnact the whole of the act of the 24th of May,
1828, because.no part of the first section could be of any avail.
No exceptions are made in regard to this act, and no reference
is made to it; while in regard to the act of 1824 the parts
rejected are carefully excluded, and the residue only is revived
and regnacted. The established rules of construction show,
that, where a part is named and excluded, the residue is regnacted. Expressio unius est exclusio alterius. Co. Lit. 210 a,
183 b; Broom's Legal Maxims, 183, 187.
Every part of the act of 1824, except what relates to the
Territory of Arkansas, is revived and re6nacted by eipress
words; the court will readily perceive that this case is distinguishable from one reported in 7 Cranch, 382. In that case
the language of the reviving act was general in the reference
to the acts which had expired. Here it is special and specific,
and by several modes of expression negatives any such general
inference. There is a plain repugnance between the first and
eighth sections of the act df 1824 and the second section of
the act of 1828. If, therefore, the law of 1824 is revived and
regnacted, it is clear that the law of 1828 remains a dead letter.
Questions bearing a strict analogy have often arisen upon
repealing statutes, whether it was the intention of the framers
to repeal the whole, or only a part, of the acts to which such
repealing statutes were applied. No better mode occurs of
illustrating the subject, than by referring to the standard rules
of construction which have been adopted by the courts in such
cases. The word repeal is not to be taken in an absolute
sense, if from the whole it appear to be used with a limitation. In every case it is a question of construction whether

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

79

The Uxited States v. Boisdor6 et aL

it operate as a total, or partial, or temporary repeal. Rex v.
:Rogers, 10 East, 573.
Where several acts of Parliament upon the same subject.
had been totally repealed, and others repealed in part, it was
held that it must have been the clear intention of the legislature that only the part of an act particularly pointed out should
be repealed. . Camden v. Anderson, 6 Term R. 723; Dwarris
on Statutes, 675.
The general principle undoubtedly is, that the repeal of a repealing statute revives the first act, unless the new law contain
words indicative of a contrary intention of the legislature; in
which case no such consequence follows.
So, it is said, if an act of Parliament be revived, all acts
explanatory of that so revived are revived also; whioh may be
true, unless in the latter case, as in the former, the language of
the 'act authorizes a different interpretation. The Bishop's
Case, 12 Coke's Rep. 7; Tattle v' Grimwood, .3 Bing. 496;
Dwarris on Statues, 676; Brown v. Barry, 3 Dallas, 367.
And where some parts of a revived statute are omitted in
the reviving statute, they are not to. be revived by construction,
but are to be considered as annulled. Ellis v. Paige, 1 Pick.
43-45 ; Rutland v. Mendon, 1 Pick. 154; Blackburn v. Walpole, 9 Pick. 97.
The law does not favor implications in construing a repealing
or a reviving statute. Loker v. Brookline, 13 Pick. 342, 348;
Haynes v. Jenks, 2 Pick. 172, 176; Dwarris on Statutes, 675.
If, then; the act of 1824 alone is revived, it follows, by express enactment, that petitioners are required to set forth the
names of adverse claimants. This point'is too plain to require
argument.
The claimants may contend, that, as they do not claim the
lands held by adverse parties, but an equal quantity to be
hereafter located on the public domain, no parties except the
United States are therefore interested. It will be observed,
however, by the eleventh section of the act of 1824, that it is
only after it has been decreed that the titlejto the lands claimed
is valid, that the right of entering other lands accrues.
It may also be said, that th make the adverse claimants parties would oust the jurisdiction of the court, because the parties
defendants would be citizens of the same State as the petitioners ; and that the provisions of the act of 1824, which requires
persons to be imna-de defendants, whether-they are citizens of a
different--State or not arLe-unconstitutional. It-is true that an
act of Congress cannot confer a jurisdiction not warranted by
the Constitution. But the error of the argument on the-other
side consists in supposing that the act of 1824 was the exereise

80

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et jil.

of the power vested in Congress, arising out of the character
of the parties to the suit, and not out of the character of the
cause. The distinction between these fwo classes of cases,
which is obvious upon a mere cursory reading of the sebond
section of the third article of the Constitution, is thus stated by
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court
in the case of Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 378:"Jurisdiction is given in two classes of cases. In the first
their jurisdiction depends on the character of the cause, whoever may be the parties. This class comprehends ' all cases, in.
law and equity, arising under this Con'stituqion, the laws of the
United States, and treaties made, or which shall.be made,
under their authority" - This clause extends the jurisdiction of
the court to all the cases described, without making in its
terms any exception whatever, and without any regard to the
condition of the party. If there be any exception, it is to be
implied against the express words of the article. In the secona
class the jurisdiction depends entirely on the character of Ahe
parties. In this are comprehended 'controversies between two
or more States.' &c. If these be the parties, it is entirely unimportant what may be the subject of controversy. Be it what
it may, these parties have a constitutional right to .come into
the courts of the Union.'
The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act is a notable example of the exercise of the power vested in Congress arising
out of the character of the cause. The act of 1824 is an exercise of the same authority.
The points made by the counsel for Boisdor 's heirs were
the following :First Point. The grant emanating from Governor Miro of
Louisiana, in 1783, was issued by proper auth6rity, and conferred a valid grant of the lands claimed, though the patent or
title in form never issued. From its inception to the time
Spain was forcibly expelled this district of country in 1811,
and from that time to this, no doubt or suspicion has been
entertained of the integrity of the grant, and of its possession
in good faith. Its extent only has prejudiced the claim. We
insist it was assured as private property under the equity of
the treaty of St. Ildefonso, of October, 1800, and expressly by
the treaty of Louisiana in 1803. And no indulgent construction of the act of i824 in its favor is requisite to insure its
confirination by this court. 6 Pet. 723, 728, 729; 8 Pet. 452;
9 Pet. 132, 134, 735, 760; 10 Pet. 341; 12 Pet. 428, 436, 438,
446, 460 ; I How. 24.
Second Point. (This related entirely to the genuineness of
the documents offered in evidence.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

81

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

Third Point. The partial and incomplete proceedings under the administration of Morales, in 1808 to 1810, instituted
to obtain the title in form, we maintain, were lawful and valid
to the extent of the adjudications made. That the reference
of the subject by Morales to his minister of the treasury, the
minister's report favorable to the claim, and then and thereupon Morales's order committing the subject of the application
to the Surveyor-General for his action, "that a corresponding
title might (may) be furnished," are all proceedings of a judicial character, and furnish evidence of confirmation to this extent. 9 Pet. 743; 8 Pet. 308.
Pintado's despatch, made in reference to these adjudications,
but not iu pursuance of them, is no doubt invalid, because
manifestly unauthorized by the preceding orders. Hence the
survey and patent failed.
But this adjudication, to the extent it progressed, was within
the lawful jurisdiction of the tribunal, and, pertaining to a date
long anterior to the treaty of St. Ildefonso, encounters no opposition from the act of 26th May, 1804, § 14.
Fourth Point. Under the preceding aspect of this case, as
well as under the.enlarged and liberal equity of the act of 1824,
it is of no importance whether any thing was done or suffered,
under the government of Spain, for which Spanish authority
might have asserted a forfeiture. The commissioners of 1828-29
report the claim as forfeited under the Spanish law, for want
of habitation and cultivation. But the report has not a particle of evidence to support this position. It reports habitation
only from 1788. (The grant was 1783.) But there is no evidence to show that was the beginning of the settlement. The
.'qu~teshows it was settled before its date, 1783. The Minister of the Treasury reports possession from date of the grant to
1808. And we understand the de-position of Rochon to prove
possession from 1784. The report of 1828, then, is obviously
untrue in fact, while the whole adjudication by the tribunals in
1808 repels every such conclusion. But we assume, as it is
indisputable that Boisdor6 occupied and claimed this land before the year 1800, and until the United States acquired the
possession, that no cause of forfeiture incurred under the government of Spain, before the year 1800, could be made the subject of inquest and escheat under the government of the United
States.
Fifth Point. The act of the 28th of May, 1830, which confirms the report of the comnmissioners of 1828, and which report recommends this claim for confirmation (for a reasonable
quantity) enacts, by way of proviso, that this claim shall not
be confirmed to more than twelve hundrec and eighty acres.

82

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdori et al.

The record shows that Elihu Carver, United States deputy
surveyor, received from the land-office an order of survey,
under this act, and, in pursuance of his official duties, and at
the cost and expense, and under direction only of the officers
of the United States, surveyed the twelve hundred and eighty
acres. This law of Congress, and the survey, are interposed
in the record as a bar to our claim.
The petitioners disclaim this act; and there is no pretence
they ever approved it. No patent has ever issued, the survey
is not shown to have been approved, and the record shows
sales rade of this claim by Boisdor6's heirs to more than five
times the quantity so confirmed. The act does *not declare a
confiscation of the remainder of the claim, and requires no release of one hundred thousand acres of land, for this.boon of
one thousand two hundred and eighty, being a part thereof. To
sustain this bar is to render this proviso in the act of 1830
more potent than the subsequent act of 1844, which gives the
right of action under the law of 1824, but which is rendered
inoperative as to this case, could this plea in bar prevail.
It is unnecessary to argue what Congress might de in its
capriciousness of power. We cannot suppose the court will
favor such construction of this act, as imputes the intention to
Congress to confiscate this claim, by mere implication of this
proviso. Our record proves this claim was regarded good and
valid as priyate property by the Spanish government in 1808.
It is unreasonable to suppose the Congress intended to annul
or destroy it. 2 Wheat. 203; 7 How. 880; 7 Pet. 86, 87.
Query, If Congress could so confiscate property? 12 Pet.
447. Or could attach a condition and render it obligatory upon.
such a grant of absolute property, with promise of a title in
form? 10 Pet. 306.
Sixth Point. We maintain that the construction of the
terms of the grant under the law must define, prescribe, and
control the order and direction of the survey; and that the
directions, calls, and boundaries prescribed by the decree in
this case result from the true and reasonable construction of
this grant. 3 Pet. 96, 97 ; 16 Pet. 199-202.
It is a well-established rule of law, that parol evidence cannot change or vary the written calls in a deed or grant, nor
supply calls and boundaries where none are given in the deed.
• We have always regarded the boundaries of this claim as
the only difficult question in the case. Not that we think it
inherently so, but that it hs been rendered somewhat questionable from the instructions of the Spanish Surveyor-Gen.
eral Pintado, of the 23d of May, 1810, and by his assumptions
in his despatch of the 30th of May, 1810, and his figurative
plan therewith.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

83

The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

We will first inquire, What and where is the beginning corner? The grant says, "to commence from the plantation of
Philip Saucier." The grant itself shows the plantation of Philip
Saucier is at Achoucoupoulous (now Shieldsborough), at the
mouth of Bay St. Louis. This is shown by Pintado's instructions of the 23d of May, 1810, and his despatch of the 30th of
May, 1810. It is proved also by the witnesses Toulm6, Monet,
and Carver. And beside the testimony of these witnesses to
the fact, the third volume, p. 9, claim 22, of the American
State Papers on Public Lands, shows that this Saucier claim
is the same confirmed tb Marshall and Joseph Nicaise; and it
is shown, too, not to have been surveyed up to the time of
'confirmation by the United States commissioners.
The claim
is likewise shown to be a mere order 'of survey, and not a
grant for any specific bounds, except its front on the bay.
The figurative plan furnished by Pintado, with his despatch
of the 30th of May, 1810, draws also conjectural or figurative boundaries of the Saucier claim, and starts the line of
Boisdor6 from what surveyors understand to be a projection
of Saucier's north side line, from its northwest corner. We,
of course, know that, to have made this effective as a specific
starting-point, the lines of the Saucier tract must have been
actually laid down. But as we know this was not then done,
we have no knowledge from this figurative plan 6f the call
and course which Pintado would have had Boisdor6's north
side line run, except we may conjecture he meant it should
run in the same course with Saucier's north side line. But
nothing shown of that date can fix for us the beginning point
of the Boisdor6 claim, simply because the Saucier tract was
not specifically bounded. But the United States have since
surveyed this Saucier claim, and given it established bounds,
as Spain might have done. The court below, as our decree
shows, construed our first call (to begin from the Saucier
tract) to mean from the front (southeast) corner, on the south
side of the Saucier claim, andfrom which our second call
takes departure. And if our grant commences from the Saucier grant, it is quite apparent it must be on the side and at
the point the decree has assumed.
But Pintado's figurative plan, which appears in this case,
commenced the beginning line of the Boisdor6 claim on the
north side of the Saucier clairfi; and, though in this iespect
most favorable to the Boisdor6 heirs, is most evidently wrong.
And hence surveyor Downing's embarrassment, as per his testimony, on this starting-point. The next call is the Mosquito
Bayou, well and clearly established as Bayou Maringouin; or
at present Mulatto Bayou. To fix the point of this second

84

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

call is the next inquiry. The decree assumes it to be the
mouth of that Bayou. This we think obviously right, because the grant of Governor Miro designates the intervening distance between the first and second call the front; and
the Minister "of the Treasury, Lozada, and the SurveyorGeneral, Pintado, both so understood it, and surveyor Ludlow,
witness for the United States in this case, in answer to crossinterrogatory four, so proves it. And bearing upon this point
is the answer of Downing to the fifth cross-interrogatory. But
to keep within the undoubted bounds of this second point
called for, the decree has asslimed the mouth of the Pearl
River cut-off, where it enters the Pearl River, as the second
point called for, instead of that mouth of the Mosquito Bayou which falls into the Pearl River cut-off; in other words,
the second mouth of the Mulatto Bayou, and that which is
nearest the point of departure at Saucier's plantation.
Having thus established these two points, and the grant
calling for Pearl River as its depth or back boundary, can
there be any difficulty in fixing the course which the side lines
should run to the Pearl River?
The testimony of five surveyors is found in this ,ecord; viz.
Carver, Monet. Bringier (Surveyor-General of Louisiana),
Ludlow, and Downing, - the two latter both ex-SurveyorsGeneral of Mississippi. All these concur that the side lines
should be perpendicular to the base line between the first and
second points called for in the grant.
But the answer of the District Attorney of the United States
complains that we object to the figurative plan of Pintado
shown in the record, and repudiated by the petitioners in their
amended petition. The reason for this will be apparent to the
court, on inspecting this plan. It conforms in no sort with the
calls of the grant. The court, on inspection of the figurative
plan, will perceive it gives no side line for the grant, from the
Mosquito Bayou to the Pearl River. No construction, which
does not violence to the very terms of the grant, can authorize
this omission. And the court will see, from Pintado's instructions to Lorreins for the survey of this claim, given only
seven days before drawing this figurative plan, that he expressly directed the 4wo side lines from the first two points to
be run to the Pearl River. And Surveyor-General Bringier, in
answer to the second cross-interrogatory, with Pintado's instructions of the 23d of May, 1810, before him, says, that he
understands these instructions as pointing out the same mode
of survey as indicate. by him, the witness, in his deposition,
viz. side lines perpendicular to the base.
But the map or plan given by Pintado, seven days after-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

85

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

ward, with his despatch of the 30th of May, 1810, to answer
in place of a survey, is most clearly wrong, in disregarding the
rectangular figure, and giving in fact no side line, in any geodetical sense.
The order of survey in the decree is not only shown to be
right by a fair interpretation of the grant, and by the proof in
the cause, but it is thoroughly sustained by authority. The
usages of Spain, and decisions of the United States, as to the
form and figure to be observed in executing such surveys, are
identical. In all like cases with this, the rectangular figure is
the mandate of the law, where no other is called for. 6
Cranch, 148; 2 Wheat. 316; 3 How. 696, 701, 704.
The case in 6 Cranch, from page 163 to 168, embodies facts
not dissimilar to those in this case, and sustains the principles
of this decree. And the act of 8th May, 1822, § 4, directs that
the form of the Spanish surveys shall guide the officers in
the survey of these claims in this district.
Why Pintado, in giving his plan on the 30th of May, 1810,
to serve as a survey, chose to discard his own rules given to
Lorreins a week previous, we know not, and it is perhaps of little importance to be known. The topography of the country
was not then understood, as the maps of the United States
surveys now disclose it. It was less known in 1783, when the
grant was made. It may have been that Pintado, in 1808,
when the territory of Spain in this region had shrunk to this little strip between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers, imagined
himself justified in curtailing the too great generosity of Governor Miro, as exhibited in this grant. We can only suppose
some such cause for such obvious disregard to the rights of the
claimants under this grant. But our tribunals declare a better morality when they say: "The principles of law cannot
in any way be affected by the magnitude of the claims under
consideration; every principle of justice forbids it." 6 Pet.
691.
This claim -though large, is of little value, and is, useful for
little else now than for the object which moved Governor
Miro to make the grant; and, large as it is, would make but a
limited vaclierie for the numerous heirs of the grantee, who
have come into existence since their rights in this claim have
been suspended and deferred.
It was objected by the attorney of the United States, on
argument of the demurrer in the court below, that the petitioners had not made all the settlers on this land, who claim
title adversely, parties defendant, as originally directed by the
first section bf the act of 1824. We first answer to this objection, that this provision of the act of 1824 is no longer in
VOL. X1.
8

86

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Doisdor6 et al.

force, being expressly repealed by the act of 24th May, 1828,
§ 2. And the decision of this court in 8 Howard, 123, is, that
the act. of 17th June, 1844, only operated to revive the fifth
section of the act of 1824.
But this couit, in the case of Soulard's Heirs, 10 Pet. 100,
where adverse claims were shown in the petition, but the adverse claimants not made parties, held and adjudged the controversy as rightly made between the petitioner and the United
States, and this on petition filed in 1824, and of course before
the clause referred to was repealed in 1828. But the legislation of Congress by inspection of the laws, rather than the decisi6n of the courts, settles this question.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The heirs of Boisdor6 filed their petition, in the nature of a
bill in equity, pursuant to the act of 1824, revived by that of
1844, against the United States, claiming a decree to a perfect
title for a large body of land fronting of the. Bay of St. Louis
and the Gulf of Mexico, and extending in depth to Pearl
River; containing between one hundred thousand and four
hundred thousand acres in quantity, depending on the manner in which the claim should be surveyed. A decree was
made by the District Court of Mississippi, confirming the
claim, and ordering a survey to be made in a particular manner, ivhich will more fully appear hereafter. From this decree
the United States appealed; and the first question presented
for our consideration is as to the nature and character of the
paper title on which the claim is founded.
It was a gratuitous concession, made in 1783, by the Governor of Louisiana, exercising the powers of the king of Spain,
and inteaded mainly for the purpose of pasturage and raising
cattle.
A petition was filed by Louis Boisdor6, the ancestor of
complainants, representing to the Governor that the petitioner,
being an inhabitant of New Orleans, and desirous to form a
plantAion, or cow-pen, in the vicinity of the Bay of St. Louis,:
at a place commonly called Achoucoupoulous, for the whole
of his petitioner's family; which was very large, as was notorious to his Excellency: and, moreover, that the petitioner
might be enabled to employ all his negroes thereon, and to
support a large stock of cattle which he had already; which
land was, as it w re, only inhabitable as, and fit for, a cattleraising farm: and therefore he proceeds to say: "May it please
your Excellency, in consideration of what is above explained,
and of the ,benefif thai will result to the capital (city) from
such a bonsiderable cattle-raising establishment as the one

DECEMBER TE RM, 1850.

87

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

which I have commenced to form in the said place and in the
vicinity of said city, to grant to me the portion of ground
which is yacant in the said place (section of' country), known
under the name of Achoucoupoulous, running from the plantation of Philip Saucier up to the bayou called Bayou of Mosquito Village, formnerly inhabited by Mr. (paper torn off), and
running in depth down to Pearl River, in order that I may
form with facility the aforesaid establishment and cow-house
(cattle-raising farm) for all my family as aforesaid: a favor
which I hope, according to justice, from the granting power
which is vested iii you. New Orleans, 1st April, 1783."
And on this petition the Governor proceeds to grant as follows : "New Orleans, 26th April, 1783. Being satisfied *ith the
well-founded reasons expressed above, and with the usefulness and advantage which will result to the capital (city)
from the establishment of a cattle-raising farm in that section
bf country, little fit for any cultivation, the surveyor of the
Province, Don Carlos Laveau Trudeau, "will establish Louis
Boisdor6 upon the extent of ground which he solicits in the
foregoing memorial, situated in the 'section of country commonly called Achoucoupoulous, commencing in front from the
plantation belonging to Philip Saucier, a resident of 'said
country, down to the bayou called Mosquito Village Bayou,
with the depth down to Pearl River; the same being vacant,
and no prejudice being ctused to the neighbors living as well
in front as upon the depth; which measures he will reduce to
writing, signing with the aforesaid parties, and will temit the
same to me, in order that I may furnish the party interested
with' a corresponding title indue Iorm..
(Signed,)
M Ro."
As the two papers formed the contract between the government and the petitioner, they must be construed together, there
being a proposition on one side to do certain acts, and an acceptance on the other, limited by several restrictions. What
is stated in either paper as to fact and intent must be taken as
true. The facts appearing are, that Boisdor6 was an inhabitant of the city of New Orleans; that he had a large family,
and that'he wished to establish "a cattle-raising farm."
There are several translations of this document from the
Spanish, but the true one is, that a stock farm was to be established on the land solicited; and that the establishment contemplated was to be "for all the family" of the petitioner;
and on which he was to employ all his force of negroes.
These were leading motives set forth to the Governor; and
-

88

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdori et aL

the benefit that would result to the city from such an establishment was also presented as a prominent consideration
why, on public grounds, the grant should be made.
On these motives, and their obvious consequence if the cattle farm were established as proposed, the Governor acted.
This contract is to be construed with reference to the laws
of the place where and when it was made, and the usages and
customs observed in making similar concessions.
By the act of 1824, we are required to exercise the power of
a court of equity, and to adjudge in the given case whether a
court of equity could, according to the rules and laws of Spain,
consider the conscience of the king so affected by the acts of
his lawful authorities in the province, that he became a trustee
for the claimant, and held the land claimed by an equity upon
it, amounting to a severance of so much from the public domain, before and at the time the country was ceded to the
United States. This was the rule laid down for our government in 1836, in the case of Smith v. The United States
(10 Peters, 330, 331), and which has been uniformly followed
since.
The first act the claimant was bound to perform was taking
possession; in regard to which it is proved by several witnesses, by affidavits taken in 1828, and then filed with the
register and receiver at Jackson Court-House in lississippi,
and which proofs are made evidence by the act of 1824, that
Boisdor6 had had possession of a place on the Mulatto Bayou
for forty years before 1828 ;"that the land was cultivated, and
cattle kept there; and the register and receiver found that the
land had been inhabited and cultivated from 1788 to 1828, by
Boisdor6 and his representatives ; nor do we see any occasion
to dissent from this finding.
And, furthermore, as it appears from Boisdor6ls petition in
1783, that he had commenced forming a cattle-raising establishment at said place, we deem it fair to presume that the
possession and occupation proved to have existed in 1788, and
afterwards, did also exist from 1783 to 1788; 'nd so the petition to the Circuit Court, seeking a confirmation, states the
fact to have been.
As respects the nature and extent of this occupation, the
evidence is obscure. Complainants allege "that their ancestor,
Louis Boisdor6, during his lifetime, and his representatives
after his decease, occupied, possessed, and cultivated said tract
of land, from 1783 until the year 1828; that their ancestor, and
his widow and representatives, kept up and supported said
plarltation and grazing farm upon said land during the whole
of that period of time, and fully complied with all the condi-

DECEMBER TERM. 1850.

89

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

tions of the grant, and all the laws, customs, and usage,- of
Spain in relation to grants of its public domain2
This allegation is directly denied by the answer, and proof
of the facts .alleged imposed on complainants. Lewis Daniell,
a wiLness examined by them, states, that in 1824, when he
first examined these lands, a few acres were cleared near Mulatto Bayou, which had then the appearance of being very anciently cleared and cultivated; that on it and in its vicinity
were found weeding-hoes and axes much worn by use; that
the old field was the first settlement made on the east side of
the bayou, and was made by Louis Boisdor4, according to the
general reputation of the country.
Elihu Carver, another witness of complainants, states, that in
1814 or 1815 he learned from cow-hunters, who were old inhabitants, that the old improvement was called Boisdor6's cowpens; and that there was then another place, within less than
a mile, where a person yet cultivated a small field on. the east of
the said bayou, whom he then understood to be a stock-keeper
for Louis Boisdor6; this last place was on the land now owned
by F. Saucier.
Samuel White, examined for complainants, states: "I know
this bayou, and all the considerable branches thereof; its present name is Mulatto Bayou; it was known by this name as
long ago as 1820 or 1821. It took its name, as I always understood, from the mulatto man who lived pomewhere near
vhat was formerly called Point Boisdor6, and wvho was stationed there to take care of the stock of Louis Boisdor6."
By the affidavits taken and filed on behalf of complainants
before the register and receiver, in 1828, it appears that th
person above referred to was a slave, named Matthew, who belonged after the death of Louis Boisdor6 to his widow, and who
kept cattle on the land for his widow and heirs. And as this rhan
gave its English name to the bayou, and is proved by White
to have kept stock there for Louis Boisdor6 in his lifetime, we
hold it to be sufficiently established that he had this one slave
there, from the date of the grant in 1783 ; but as the affirinative fact of occupation was imposed on complainants by the'
pleadings, and as the original improvement on the land was
next to nothing, no further presumption can be made that other
slaves were there.
The next leading question arises on the nebessity of a sur.
vey before the land solicited and granted was severed from the
public domain; that is to say, whether the grant identifies the
land, or whether a survey was required to establish its identity.
Boisdor6 asked for a grant in the "vicinity" of the Bay of St.
Louis, at a place called Achoucoupoulous, running from the
8"

90

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

plantation of Philip Saucier up to the Bayou of Mosquito
Village (Mulatto Bayou), and extending in depth down to
Pearl River.
The Governor ordered Trudeau, the Surveyor-General, to
establish Boisdor6 on the tract of land he solicited in the section of country called Achoucoupoulous; taking as the front of
said tract, from the plantation of Philip Saucier, a resident of
said country, down to the bayou called -Mosquito Village
Bayou, with the depth down to Pearl River, the same being
vacant, and no prejudice being caused tQ the neighbors living
as well in front as upon the depth, "which measures," says the
decree, "he will reduce to writiqg, signing with the aforesaid
parties (the neighbors), aid will 9emit the same to me, in order
that I may furitish the party interested with a corresponding
title in due form" ; to wit, 6. title corresponding to the survey
returned to the Governor. Boisdor4's tract was to be located
by a survey whose front was to commence from Saucier's plantation, and to end at Mulatto Bayou. 'When this front was
established, and a corner at each end of it marked, and a line
drawn from corner to corner, then a perpendicular line drawn
from each corner to Pearl River was to be the depth. Such
was proved by witnesses to be the uniform practice of surveying Spanish concessions, and this we know to be the true
rule aside from proof.
The size of Saucier's plantation appears by survey. It is a
considerable tract; its southwest corner points towards the
bayou, which lies southwest; one line from that corner running
south seventy degrees' east one hundred and sixteen chains,
and the othcr line i unning north twenty degrees east fifty-eight
chains. According to our construction of the grant, on either
of these lines, and at any point on them, the survey might begin
with equal propriety. Taken together, they are seven hundred
and ninety-six poles long; and this is all the certainty given
for a beginning of the first or front line.
The bayou is six or seven miles long, and a notorious stream,
being navigable for vessels of light draught, such as navigate
the lakes in its neighborhood. It empties into Pearl River by
two outlets, which are some three miles apart. From its upper
mouth it extends off- from the river northeastwardly, when
traced upwards.
. At some point of the bayou we are called on to establish the
second corner of the front line; and as' it is equally marked
and navigable for six or seven miles of its length, one part
thereof as well as another may be selected.
Tracing Pearl River up the stream from either mouth of the
bayou, it extends nearly north in its general course, but bear-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

91

The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

ing more or less to the west. Saucier's plantation is about fifteen miles from the nearest pdrt of the bayou.
To strike a base line from the southeast corner of Saucier's
plantation to the upper or easternmost mouth of the bayou,
then, the second corner would be on Pearl River, some ten
miles above its easternmost mouth; and the western perpendicular side line would run up the river, and nearly parallel
with its general course, across a large bend to the west, and
again strike the river at nine and a half miles higher up, where
the bend turns to the east, and is again reached by the western
side line.
The eastern side line would strike the river so high up as to
include about 400,000 acres in the survey. And such is the
mode of survey ordered by the District Court, and which we
are called on particularly to examine. But if the western end
of the front line were established farther north on the bayou,
,then the quantity would be increased in proportion as the corner was located farther north, because the corresponding perpendicular side lines would have to be extended in a direction
bearing farther east and would strike the Pearl River still
higher up, if they would reach it at all; which is very improbable as respects the eastern side line, if even the middle of
the bayou was determined on as the proper point for the second
corner. We think it is impossible to contend that the second
corner of the front line should be on Pearl River, and that the
side line should run up it, and near to it, and each end of the
line be on the river, as the Spanish mode was to front on navigable waters, and not mar their fronts by side lines, located
near to, but not on, the river.
That the topography of that section of country in which the
Spanish surveyor was directed to survey and mark a tract of
land for Boisdor6 was greatly mistaken by the governor who
made the grant, is now too manifest for controversy, as no
front line can be laid down, from the ends of which perpendicular side lines will reach Pearl River in depth, without violating the plainest rules of making Spanish surveys. But for
all the purposes of a Spanish survey made by a surveyor-general of the Province, such description as the concession sets
forth was sufficient, because large latitude was allowed to his
discretion. Had that authorized officer certified that the land
marked out by him was "at the place granted," then this fact
must be taken as prihnrfacie true; the certificate standing on
the foot of a deposition. So this court has uniformly held; as
in Breward's case (16 Peters, 147), in Low's case (16 Peters,
166), and especially in the United States v. Hanson (16 Peters,
199, 200). The Spanish governors gave credence to surveys

92

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

made by the surveyor-general, as being at the proper place
when it was thus certified in legal form; and the courts of
this country have done the same; and this for the reason that
the acts of the governor .and surveyor-general were both on
behalf of the government, each being bound by his duty as a
public officer to protect the king's domain.
No nice conformity was required in a Spanish survey, in
cases where a section of country was designated by the concession without definite objects being given to govern the surveyor; the objects might be loosely and indefinitely stated by
the concession, and yet a survey could be made, subject to the
governor's sanction or rejection, because, in the language of
this court in Hanson's case (16 Peters, 200), " a grant delivered
out for survey meant, not; as with us, a perfect title, but an incipient right; which, when surveyed, required confirmation by
the governor." - If this land had been actually surveyed by
Trudeau, as demanded by the grant, and he had certified that
it was at the place granted, and the survey had been returned
and filed according to the twelfth regulation of Governor
O'Reilly made in 1770; or filed and recorded according to the
fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth regulations of the Intendant Morales of 1 7 9 9, then such survey would identify the land
granted. A fair instance is furnished by this record of the Spanish
mode. The .time for making a survey having long expired,
and a new order of survey being necessary before a complete
title could be applied for, the widow of Boisdor6 in 1808 applied to the Spanish- governor at Pensacola for an order of
survey of ,+his claim, on the supposition that he had authority
to grant the order. It was made as requested, and Pintado,
the surveyor of the Province, was directed to make the survey.
He did not examine the ground, but drew a figurative plan
for the information of his deputy, to be followed in marking
out the grant.
This plan begins at the southwestern corner of Saucier's
plantation, and pursues a line due. west to Pearl River, runs
down the river to its mouth, and then with the ocean to
Saucier's land, and with it north seventy degrees west to the
beginning. Although no call of the grant but the beginning
was regarded in this plan, yet, if the survey had been actually
made, certified, *and returned in conformity' to said plan, then
the tract would have been identified according to usage, had
the Spanish jurisdiction continued over the country where the
land lies. But no actual survey having been made at any
time, it was imposed on the court below, and it is now imposed on this court, if in its power, to identify and cause to be

DECEMDER TERM, 1850.

93

The United States v. B oisdorO et al.

surveyed the land granted. If, however, its identity cannot be
fixed, and it cannotbe ascertained that any specific tract was
severed from the public domain by the grant, at the -time Spain
ceded Louisiana, then the claim cannot be ripened into a complete title by our decree; as we Qnly have power to adjudge
what particular tract of land was granted. Our action is judicial. We have no authority to exercise political jurisdiction
and to grant, as the governors of Spain had, and as Congress
has. If we were to locate by survey the land claimed at random, in some part of the district of country known as Achoucoupoulous, exercising our discretion as respects the proper
place, and to decree on our own survey, and thus divest the
United States of title, then we should do what Congress has
often done when surveys were ordered of claims fgunded on
settlement, and what a Spanish governor usually did on the
return of a survey; we should exercise the granting power;
-should deal with public lands, - public to the time of our
decree, and first made private property by it. ours would
be an exercise of political' jurisdiction, and not a judicial
decree.
In its endeavor to locate this grant, the District Court examined witnesses of experience and capacity as to the possibility of doing so, and came to the conclusloo' that it could be
done; and, as partly stated already, a survey was ordered, to
begin at the southern part of Saucier's plantation on .the 6cean;
at the mouth of the Bay of St. Louis, and to meander -the
ocean to the eastern mouth of Pearl River, and then up the
same to the upper mouth of Mulatto Bayou. From this'pbint
to the place of beginning a theoretic base line was to be
drawn; and from each corner thus established, perpendicular
side lines were to be extended to Pearl River for the depth.
The witnesses agree that, if the first two corners are established, then the survey can be made, if the side lines would reach
Pearl River. They had before them, as we have, the plan of
the United States surveys, and the localities established by
them, and merely expressed opinions as to the proper mode .of
survey. They do not agree as to where the first corner or the
second corner of the base line should be; and as this is a question of legal construction of the grant; on' comparing it with
the face of the country, a judicial tribunal is the proper forum,
and best qualified to decide the questiori. Conclusive information was not to be expected from practical surveyors, however experienced; yet their opinions are entitled-to much consideration.
Alexander Downing, late Surveyor-General of Mississippi,
declares it to be his opinion, that "the phrase in the grant to

SUPREME COURT.

94
'he

United States v. Boisdorg et al.

Louis Boisdor6, 'the front thereof to commence from the plantation of Philip Saucier, and running to the Bayou of the
Mosquito Village,' is not sufficiently definite to enable a surveyor to fix upon a beginning point or corner; both the beginning point and the front line seem to be left to the discretion
of the surveyor, and it is questionable whether any two surveyors would settle upon the same point for a beginning."
We agree with this witness as respects the beginning point.
But we find still more uncertainty in determining where the
second corner should be established, as there a range of discretion exists between the head 'and mouth of the bayou, to an
extent of six or seven miles. Our opinion is, that the front line
cannot be laid down by a judicial decree, because of the vague
description in the grant;. and consequently, that no parallel
side lines can be established.
How, then, do the rights of complainants stand on the fi ets,
the Spanish laws being adopted as the governing rule? In
the first place, their ancestor held the concession in his own
possession for twenty years under the Spanish government;
that is to say, from 1783 to 1803, without calling for a survey.
His claim remained precisely as it was at its date, up to the
time we acquired Louisiana. It was presented in 180S to the
Spanish governor at Pensacola, aild a survey and complete title
solicited; but as no actual survey was made, and as no jurisdiction then existed in the Spanish authorities over that section
of country, this step passes for nothing. Some notice of this
claim was taken by Commissioner Crawford, whose report
condemned it. In 1820 it was filed and recorded in the landoffice at Jackson Court-House, and a confirmation sought from
Congress on a recommendation of the register and receiver acting as land commissioners. This was in fact the first legal step
taken by complainants or their ancestor, after the concession
was made. For thirty-seven years they slept on their rights;
and in the -meantime large masses of the land now claimed
by them were granted to others, under both the Spanish and
American governments; and this neglect for twenty years of
the time was in plain violation of the Spanish laws, and the
face of their concession; each requiring a legal survey and
specific designation of the land granted.
In the second place, no possession was ever taken according to the terms of the grant. A large tract was solicited by
Ioisdor6 where he could establish his "whole family, and employ all his negroes" in *carrying on the establishment. His
family was very large, according to his owri showing; it consisted of a wife, chlidren, and slaves. A removal to the premises from the city of New Orleans of this whole family was

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

95

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

proposed by Boisdor6, and was contemplated- by the Governor;
and as a further inducement he was assured that much benefit
would result to the capital from such a considerable cattleraising establishment in its vicinity. It was to be so large
as to be of publi6 consideration. These were the notorious
promises on which the Governor acted. And what was the
compliance on the part of the grantee? He represented that
he had then commenced forming his establishment at the place.
It appears to our satisfaction, by proof, that five years afterwards he had a single slave there, who kept some cattle, and
that a slight patch of a few acres was clear d; and we take it
to have been cultivated. The slave continued at the place
cleared, or near to it, for many years; say up to'1814 or
1815.
If the establishment had been commenced in 1783, when
the grant was made, (and we are bound to hold that it had, as
the petition to the Governor alleges the fact,) then it is hardly
possible that it could have been on a smaller scale than it ever
after continued; there being but a single slave there at 'any
time. It could only have been less, by having no one at all
on the premises. It is therefore manifest, that no additional
possession was taken by Boisdor6 or his representatives, in
compliance with the terms of his contract, after its date. He
obviously abandoned the idea of taking his whole family to
the place, and of employing all his slaves there; and consequently abandoned all intention of having the land surveyed
and himself and family established on it by the SurveyorGeneral. And to hold that such a trifling occupation, in utter
neglect of Boisdor6's promises to the Spanish authorities, and
the duties imposed by the grant, fastened an equity on the
conscience of the king of Spain, and his representative, the
Governor of Louisiana, to complete the title, would in our
opinion be altogether inadmissible.
Various circumstances must be taken into consideration in
this connection. It was the duty of the grantee to do two
controlling and requisite acts before he could ask for a comto present his concession in due
pletion of his title; -first,
time to the Surveyor-General of the Province; and secondly,
to take possession in substantial complianne with the terms
of his grant.
Had the survey been returned wit, the proces verbal, or
certificte att-.ched, stating the fact of possession having been.
given according to the grant, and that the survey did no injury
to others; then the effectual and conclusive title could have
been issued, divesting the rights of the Spanish government.;
and then only.

96

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL

Can it be believed that the Governor of Louisiana intended
conclusively to grant a domain of fifteen miles wide and over
forty miles long (as large as an ordinary county), for the mere
purpose of a cow-pen ? and that he would have sanctioned a
survey and completed the title, if the surveyor of the Province
had reported to him, as was his daty, that Boisdor6 declined to
remove his family, white or black, to the place, or to employ
his slaves there, with the exception of a single cowherd; and
that the improvement of the place was as slight as it could well
be, -that it amounted only to a trifling patch of a few acres?
Such a proposition shocks al sense of equity, and is contrary
to the settled policy of the Spanish government; which was,
to make gratuitous grants for the purposes of settlement and
inhabitation, and-not to the end of mere speculation.
And, again, the grantee might have his land surveyed, or
he might decline; he might establish himself on the land, or
decline: these acts rested wholly in his discretion. But if he
failed to take possession and establish himself, he had no
claim to a title; his concession or first decree in such case
had no operation. So the Supreme Court of Louisiana held
in Lafayette v. Blanc, (3 Louisiana Annual Reports, 60,)
and in our judgment properly. There, the grantee never
having had actual possession under his concession, the court
decided that he could set up no claim to the land at law or
in equity. This case followed Hooter v. Tippet (17 La. Rep.
109). We take it to be undoubtedly true, that, if no actual
possession was taken under a gratuitous concession given for
the purpose of cultivafion or of raising cattle, during the existence of the Spanish government, no equity was imposed on
our government to give any consideration or effect to such
concestion2 or requite.
And, in the next place, it was held in Lafayette v. Blanc, that
if the party took possession, but had no survey executed during the tim6 Spain exercised jurisdiction, this being his own
neglect, it lies on him to establish the boundaries of his grant,
and to identify his land with such certainty, as to show what
particular tract was severed from the public domain; and if
he fails to do it, then he has no remedy in a court of justice.
And this part of the decision we also approve.
Here there was no survey, and we are of opinion, first,
t6at complainants have not identified any particular tract of
land that was granted; .and secondly, that, if they had, no
possession was taken, or pretended to be taken, such as the
agreement between the Spanish authorities and the grantee
contemplated. And therefore it is ordered, that the decree of
the District Court be reversed, and the petition dismissed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

97

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice WAYNE, and Mr. Justice McKINLEY dissented.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
In the opinion of a majority of the court, the grant in this
case is rejected, for a want of certainty in its calls. As I cannot agree with this vievd, I will state, in few'words, the grounds
of my dissent.
The petition to the Governor-General for the grant represents that Louis Boisdor6, "being desirous to form a plantation or cow-pen in the vicinity of the -Bay of St. Louis, at the
place commonly called Achoucoupoulous," &c., that he may be
enabled to employ all his negroes thereon, and to support a
large stock of cattle, prays, 1in consideration of what is above
expressed and stated, and of the bepefit which will result to
the capital from a large cow-pen, such as that he had commenced to establish at and near said place, to grant him the
parcel of land which may be vacant at the above-mentioned
place known by the name of Achoucoupoulous, to commence
at the plantation of Philip Saucier, and to run therefrom to
the Bayou of Mosquito Village, formerly inhabited by Mr.
Loisser, and extending in depth to Pearl River, that he may-be
enabled to form with facility the above-mentioned plantation
and cow-pen for the whole of his family," &c., and is datea "
1st April, 1783.
On the 26th of April, 1783, Governor Miro, resident at iNew
Orleans, answers the application by saying: "It appearing
to me that the grounds and reasons stated by the petitioner
are well founded, in relation to the utility and advantages
which- will result to the capital from the establishment of a
cow-pen in those places which are badly adapted to cultivation,
the surveyor of the Province, Don Carlos Laveau Trudeau,
shall establish Louis Boisdor6 on the tract of land which he
solicits in the antecedent memorial, situated at the place commonly called Achoucoupoulous, the front thereof to commence
from the plantation of Philip Saucier, an inhabitant of said
place, and running to the Bayou of Mosquito Village, and extending in depth to Pearl River, should the same be vacant,
and cause injury'to no one of the surrounding settlers, either
in the front or the depth thereof; whose proceedings shall be
made out and signed by him with the before-mentioned persons, and sent to me to furnish the party interested with a title
in form."
This tract of land seems never to have been actually surveyed. On the 4th of April, 1808, Gilberto Guillemard applied to the Intendant-General at Pensacola for an order of
VOL. XI.

9

98

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

survey, representing that Trudeau, the surveyor, by reason of
the expense and his pressing duties, had not executed the survey, and a request is made that Pintado, the present surveyor,
The application was
may mark out the boundaries, &c.
granted, but Pintado, instead of making an actual survey,
marked out a figurative plan by which the distances could he
ascertained. He says: " Two years having elapsed without
being able, from the emergency of my business, to .attend personally to make out the boundaries, and to make the survey
required; and not having at the said place a deputy to execute
the same; and that the heirs claiming the same may have an
authentic document issued in their favor from which may be
made appear the right of property and 'ownership which to the
said lands they have and hold in virtue of the said grants;
and also the shape and figure which the said tract of land
ought to have," &c.
The'boundaries, as above designated by Pintado, are shown
by a plat in the case. It is true, that the above proceeding in
relation to the survey took place after the surrender of Louisiana to the United States, which terminated all foreign power
over the territory, but the proceeding shows that there was no
forfeiture under the Spanish government, for the want of a
survey, or on any other ground; and it also shows that the
places called for in the grant were deemed sufficiently certain
by Pintado, the Surveyor-General, to make the survey.
What was the nature of the title given by Miro, the Governor-General, to Boisdor6? He petitioned the Governor for a
"grant" of the land at the place named, for the purposes stated. The Governor, admitting that "the grounds and reasons
stated by the petitioner were well founded, and that his proposal was advantageous to the capital," directed the surveyor
of the Province, Don Carlos Laveau Trudeau, to establish the
petitioner on the land he solicits, designating the boundaries,
&c. If there be sufficient certainty in the boundaries called
for, there can be no doubt that the grant of the Governor separates the land from the public domain, and that, in every
view, constitutes property under the treaty with France. There
were no conditions expressed upon' the face of this grant. The
consideration is named, but not as a condition.
The petition which is referred to in the grant constitutes a
part of it. The vicinity of the Bay of St. Louis, the place
known by the name of Achoucoupoulous, the plantation of
Saucier as the beginning point called for, "and to run therefrom to the Bayou of Mosquito Village, and extending in
depth to Pearl liver";-all these calls are identified, and
shown by parol evidence and the maps which are- in the case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

99

The United States t. Boisdor6 et al.

And the great question is, whether, from the calls of the grant,
the survey can be executed. These calls are clear and specific.
They are the plantation of Philip Saucier, on the Bay of St..
Louis, the rivulet or Bayou of the Village of Mosquitos, in the
district called Achoucoupoulous, and extending in depth t6
Pearl River. All these calls are proved to exist, and they are
more special than nine tenths of the calls in the Spanish grants
which have been confirmed.
Pintado, by his figurative plan embracing those calls, seems
to have had no difficulty in directing how the survey should
be made. And he was the Surveyor-General of the Province
under the Spanish government, and may be presumed to have
been well acquainted with the Spanish laws and usages on the
subject of surveys. Morales, who sanctioned the grant in 1808
by ordering the survey, was Intendant-General, and had the
same powers to grant land as the Governor-General previously
had, and he was distinguished for his geneial intelligence and
high capacity to represent his sovereign in the important duties
which were committed to him. The grant was also sanctioned
by Juan Lozado, the fiscal minister pro tern., to whom the petition of Guillemard in behalf of Boisdor 's representatives was
referred, and who recommended that the survey be made.
L. Bringier, a witness, states, "that he has been a surveyor
for upwards of thirty years, and for more than tventy-live
years Surveyor-General of the State of Louisiana, during
which period he has had the records of Spanish surveys in his
charge, and had frequent occasion to refer to them, and survey
lands in conformity to them; that he understands the Spanish
language; and he says that he agrees with Pintado as to the
mode of running the lines of the survey. He thinks the description of the grant is sufficient to enable a surveyor to make
an accurate survey of it," &c.
Elihu Carver, who says that he is a practical surveyor, on
being asked how he would survey a Spanish concession which
calls for two points as the front upon the sea-shore or a watercourse, and calls to run in depth to another water-course for
quantity, answers "that he would run from one of the first
points back to the watercourse a distance equal to the front
given, thence direct to the last point in the front." lie says
that he has surveyed many Spanish claims, and, except one, he
never found the boundaries all round. That he does not pretend to be sufficiently acquainted with the Spanish customs
and usages to pronounce upon the claim in question.
B. A. Ludlow states, that he is a practical surveyor, and has
held the office of Surveyor-General for the district south of
Tennessee. He has examined the survey of Boisdor6, and be-

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et aL.

lieves the survey to be practicable, provided the plantation of
Philip Saucier and the Bayou of Mosquito Village can be
identified. "The survey should be made," he says, "by finding
a straight line between the above-mentioned points, and raising
perpendiculars upon said line, at its extremities, extending back
to Pearl River," &e. " :Exceptions to this rule," he says,
"sometimes occur by watercourses or the lines of other claims
causing a deviation," &c. He says he is familiar with the seashore which constitutes the front of the Boisdor6 claim. From
his general knowledge of the country, he can see no material
difficulty in making the survey of the claim, &c.
A. Downing has been many years a practical surveyor, and
has held the office of Surveyor-General of the public lands for
the State of Mississippi. He says, "the phrase in the grant to
Boisdor6, ' the front thereof to commence from the plantation of
Philip Saucier,' and 'running to the Bayou of Mosquito Village,' is not sufficiently definite to enable a surveyor to fix
upon a, beginning point or corner; both the beginning point
and the front line seem to be left to the discretion of the surveyor, and it is questionable whether any two surveyors
would settle upon the sane point for a beginning. I certainly
could -not adopt the view of Pintado, the Spanish SurveyorGeneral, for in the diagram filed in the case, and to which he
refers in his instructions, he places what should be the most
easterly front corner on the back line of the Saucier plantation."
And he says the side line "from the mouth of the Bayou
of the Mosquito Village, at right angles from a base line between the front corners, would, apparently for several miles,
range close along and parallel with the east margin of Pearl
.River, and consequently c6nflict with the uniform practice of
the location and survey of grants upon all navigable streams
and shores."
This is the substance of the evidence in the case in relation
to the, calls in the grant. And it must be remarked, that all
the witnesses, with the exception of Downing, think that the
calls of the grant -are sufficient to enable a surveyor to mark
out the boundaries. Downing supposes that no two surveyors
would agree on the beginning corner, or as to the second point
and lines called for. But in this he is mistaken. In the first
place, the Spanish authorities who held the calls of the grant
sufficient are Miro, the Governor-General who issued it, and
Morales, the Intendant-General, Trudeau and Pintado, surveyors-general, and Lozado, the fiscal minister. These, when
connected with the statements of the above witnesses, would
seem to leave little doubt as to the sufficiency of the. calls of
the grant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

101

Boisdor& et al.
The United States v9.

Upon thi§ question we must not forget that we are acting
upon a Spanish grant, and are governed by Spanish laws,
usages, and customs. And if such a grant were valid under
the Spanish government, and there has been no forfeiture of
the right, we are bound by the plighted faith of our own government to sustain the grant. And in administering this foreign law, we must ascertain and regard the usages under it, in
the acquisition of titles to land. This is a universal principle,
respected by all courts, in the administration of justice. Parol
evidence must be heard to establish those usages, in addition
to what may appear from the action of the local tribunals. In
the States of Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, and in a large district of country in Ohio, the
usages in making entries and surveys of lands constitute the
laws of the respective States, the usage of each State differing
more or less from that of the others. One instance only will
be named as peculiar, perhaps, to Kentucky and Ohio. The
holder of a warrant for one thousand acres locates it, and in
his survey includes fifteen hundred acres of land, more or less,
and yet his survey is held valid. This, to one wholly unacquainted with such a rule of decision, would be thought
unreasonable, and might be disregarded; and yet it is a rule
of property which no court can reject.
To establish entries under this system parol evidence is always heard, as to the calls made, and the objects called for,
&c. And although the survey may deviate from the calls of
the entry, it is held valid, if it interfere with no prior rights.
This rule of decision, so firmly established in our own country,
should be applied with an enlarged liberality when acting on
land titles acquired under a foreign government, of whose language and usages we have comparatively but little knowledge.
The act *of Congress of the 26th of May, 1824, revived and
applied to these .titles by the act of the 17th of June, 1844,
under which we exercise jurisdiction, provides that a claimant
under "any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or
order of survey, legally made, grante&, or issued before the 10th
of March, 1804, by the proper authorities, to any person resident
in the Province of Louisiana," &c., "which might have been
perfected.into a complete title,*under and in conformity to the
laws, usages, and customs of the government under which the
same originated, had not the sovereignty of the country been
transferred to the United States, may file his petition," &c.
And the proceeding is required "to be conducted according to
the rules of a court of equity," &.; and the court is authorized
"by a final decree to settle and determine the question of the
validity of the title, according to .the law of nations, the stipu-.
9*

102

SUPREME 'COURT.
The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

lations of any treaty, and proceedings under the same, the several acts of Congress in relation thereto, and the laws and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to have
been derived," &c.
I will refer to some cases where'grants similar to the one
under consideration have been held valid by this court. In
the United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters 64, the petitioner
asked "two thousand acres of land in the place called Ockliwaha, situated on-the margin of St. John's River." Governor
Estrada says, "I do grant him the two thousand acres of land
which he solicits, in absolute property, in the indicated place."
The survey of this land was not executed until the 20th of
August, 1819, after the treaty of cezon. The title was confirmed by this court.
In the case of the United States 2,. Clarke, 8 Peters, 446,
the petitioner solicited a grant of the quantity of land which
the Governor of Florida had thought proper to assign to the
water-mills, equivalent to five miles square; which lands he
solicits "on the western part of St.. John's River, above Black
Creek, at a place entirely vacant, known by the name of White
Spring." In the grant it is declared, "A title shall be issued
comprehending the place and under the boundaries set forth
in the petition." This was also confirmed.
In the case of the United States v. Levi, 8 Peters, 479, the
grant was "for twenty-five thousand acres of land, south of
the place known by the name of Spring Garden, ir +his form:
t\velve thousand acres of them, adjoining the lake or pond
called Second, and known by the name-of Valdes, and the remaining thirteen thousand acres on the pond farther above the
preceding, known by the name of Long Pond, the whole west
of the River St. John." The survey was executed on the 2d of
August, 1819. *This court confirmed the title. Another grant
in the same case was for "seven thousand four hundred acres,
lying on a stream running from the west, and entering the
River St. John, and called in English the Big Spring, about
twenty-five miles south of St. George's Lake, one of the fronts
of the said tract to be on St. John's River, and to be divided in
two parts by the stream aforesaid." This survey was made
on the 5th of April, 1821. The title was confirmed.
In the same case another grant, which was confirmed by
this court, was for eight thousand acres, being part of a larger
parcel containing ten thousand acres, &c., "five thousand of
them in a.hammock to be found five or six miles east of Spring
Garden, and the remaining five thousand west of the River St.
John, contiguous 'to a creek called Black Creek, near Fleming's Island and the pond called Doctor's Lake."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

103

The United States v. Boisdor6 et al.

Another grant in the same case was confirmed for "twenty
thousand acres," described as lying "in the hammocks known
under the names of Cuscowillo and Chachala, situate west of
the place of the River St. John's where there was a store of the
house of Panton, Leslie, & Co., and about thirty miles from it."
Similar citations might be made from any of our reports of
the last fifteen or twenty years, but the above are sufficient to
show the course of the Spanish authorities in granting lands,
and the decision of this court upon such grants. Many of the
surveys, it will be observed, were made under Spanish authority, after Florida was ceded to the United States.
The reader, if any one shall read the above citations and
the grant of Boisdor6, will be struck with the much greater
certainty in the calls of his grant, than in the calls of any one
of the grants above stated. And yet they were confirmed, and
his is rejected for want of certainty. By virtue of what law
this greater certainty is now required in the calls of a grant I
am not able to determine. In my own mind I am assured it
cannot be under the Spanish law. And I am greatly mistaken
if our decision on Spanish titles must not rest on Spanish
law.
The tract claimed is said in the argument to be large. Of
what importance is that to a court which deals with established
principles ? In this respect we can exercise no discretion.
If the claim of Boisdor6 was property under the Spanish government, it is protected by the treaty. That it was so considered under the usages and acts of the Spanish government,
to my mind, is clear. I therefore dissent from the judgment of
the court.
Mr. Justice WAYNE.
I dissent from the opinion of the majority of the court in the
case, concurring with all the views -expressed by my brother
McLean, and dissenting from every position of fact or argument in the opinion of the court. Jrr my opinion, the opinion
of the court is a departure from all heretofore adjudged by the
court in respect to the right olfproperty secured by our treaties
with France and Spain to the inhabitant.s of Louisiana and
Florida.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record irom the District Court of the United Stafes for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is the bpinion 'of this court, that
the grant of petitioners had no identity; and cannot be surveyed-

104

SUPREME COUSRT.
Blanc v. Lafayette et al.

so as to give it boundaries, And secondly, if it could be identified, that no occupation and inhabitationwere ever taken according to the terms of the grant,'and therefore the claim is
without equity according to the laws of Spain.
Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court,
witn directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants in this
cause.

EvAuisTE BLANC, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. GEO GE W. LAFA'ETTE ANn
JOHN HAGAN.
In 1816 the register and receiver of a land dee, acting under the authority of a
law, reported as follows: "W3 are of -opn n that all the claims included under
the second species of the first class are already confirmed by the act of Congress
of the 12th of April, 1814.
In 1820 Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at Large, 573) confirming all those claims
which were recommended in the report for confirmation.
But where the commissioners erred in placing a claim in the second species of the
first class, and erred in supposing that such a claim was already confirmed by the
act of 1814, these errors prevent the act of 1820 from confirming the claim. It is
consequently invalid.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
By agreement of counsel in the State court, many .original
documents were used in the trial in the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, which were left out of the record when it was
transmitted tG this court. It did not, therefore, furnish all the
facts necessary for a complete statement of the case, which,
however, have been taken from other authentic sources.
It was a conflict between a patent issued for some land near
New Orleans to General Lafayette, in 1825, and a clam advanced by Blanc under an old Spanish alleged grant. If the
latter was not good, the patent to Lafayette covered the land
in dispute. Blanc claimed under Liotaud.
On the 23d of May,.4801, Louis Liotaud presented a petition to the Intendant Morales, praying that a tract of public
land be 'granted to him, having six arpents front on the left
bank of Canal Carondelet, with the ordinary depth, if there
should be such a depth vacant, being bounded on the one side
by the land of Carlos Guardiola, and on all the other sides by

