22

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault et al.

record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that the decree *of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. JAIiES A. GIRAULT,
WILLIAMl M. GwIN, HAY BATTLE HARmIsbN, AND ALExANDER J.
MCMURTRY.
Where an action was brought by the United States upon the official bond of a receiver of public money, a plea that the United States had accepted another bond
from the receiver was bad. The new bond could be no satisfaction for the damages that had accrued for the breach of the condition of the old one.
Pleas, also, were bad, alleging that the receiver had made returns to the Treasury
Department, admitting that he bad received money which the pleas asserted that
he never had received. They were bad, because thet addressed themselves entirely to the evidence, which, it was supposed, the United States would bring forward upoik the trial.
Besides, these pleas were had, because the sureties in the bond were bound to protect
the United States from the commission of the very fraud which they attempted to
set up as a defence.
The case of the United States v. Boyd, 5 Howard, 29, examined.
Another plea taking issue upon the breach should not have been.demurred to. The
demurrer being general as to all the pleas, and bad a3 to this one, judgment was
properly given against the plaintiffs in the court below.
By the laws of Mississippi, where a joint action is brought upon. a bond or note,
the case must be finally disposed of in the coatrt below, with respect to all the
parties upon the record, before it is carried up to the appellate court, otherwise it
is error.
Where this error occurs, the practice of this court is to dismiss the case fbr want of
jurisdiction, and remand it to the court below to be proceeded in and finally disposed of.

Tucis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for "the Northern District of :Nis-

SISSIPpi.
The United States sued out process against James A. Girault, William M. Gwin, Hay Battle Harrison, and Alexander
J. McMurtry, and declared for a debt of $100,000 by bond,
bearing date the 8th of July, 1838, executed by the defendants
thatof the
with condition,
to
UnitedStates,
the defendUnited
President
by thereciting
had been appointed
antthe
Girault
States, by commission bearing date the 2d of June, 1838,
receiver of pubio money for the district of lands subject to sale

DECEMBER TERM, i850.

q5

The United States v. Girault et aL

at Chocchuma, in th. State of Mississippi, that, "if the said
Girault shall faithfully execute and discharge the duties of his
office, then the obligation to be void"; and assigned for
breach, "that on the 2d day of June, 1840, the said Girault, as
receiver of public money as aforesaid, had received a large
amount of public money, to*wit, the sum of $ 8,952.37, which
said sum of money, he, the said James A. Girault, has hitherto wholly neglected and refused, and still neglects and refuses, to pay to the United States, contrary to the form and
effect of the said writing obligatory; and of the condition
thereof by reason of which," &c.
To this the sureties, Gwin, Harrison, and McMurtry, pleaded
(by leave of the court first had) four several pleas.
1. That after the making of the bond declared on, (and after
the said 2d of June, 1840, mentioned in the assignment of
breach,) and before the commencement of suit, to wit, on the
25th of September, 1840, the said J. A. Girault, and McRae
Bartlett, George K. Girault, Wilson and Blocker, made their
act and deed to the plaintiffs in the penal sum of $ 100,000,
reciting the appointment of said James A. Girault as receiver
of public money at Chocchuma, by commission bearing date
the 2d of June, 1838, with condition, "that, if the said James
A. Girault had truly and faithfully executed and discharged,'and
should truly and faithfully continue to execute and discharge,
all the Iluties of said office, according to the laws of the United
States," &c., &c.; which bond and condition the plaintiffs did
then and there "receive and accept of and from said James
', in full lieu, discharge, and satisfaction of
A. Girault, ,
the said writing obligatory in the plaintiffs' declaration mert.
are ready to verify; wheretioned; and this the said defendants
if," &c.
fore they'pray judgment
2. That on the 2d of June, 1840, and on several days be.
fore, "the said James A. Girault issued receipts as receiver of
money, paid for certain lands therein specified, and to returned,
at the times aforesaid, to the Treasury Department of the
United States, to the amount of ten thousand dollars, and of
which the amount in the declaration mentioned is part and
parcel; and these defendants say, that neither the said ten
thousand dollars, nor any part thereof, were ever paid to or collected by him, the said James A. Girault, which these defendants are ready to verify and prove; wherefore they pray judgment if the said plaintiffs shall have their action against them."
3.. The third plea says, "that said J. A. Girault caused to
be entered for his own use several parcels of land, amounting
to eight thousand acres, and gave and issued receipts for money
paid therefor on the 2d of June, 1840, and on divers other days

24

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault et al.

before that time, and returned an account to the Treasury Department of the United States in said receipts specified, to the
amount of ten thousand dollars, of which amount the sum
mentioned in plaintiffs' declaration is part and parcel." "And
the said defendants aver that neither the said -moneys, ior any
part thereof, were ever paid or deposited in said office by the
said Girault, or any one for him, and this the defendants are
ready to verify; whereof they pray judgment."
4. The fourth plea a]leges that the plaintiffs ought not to
have their action, because the defendants say "that no public
moneys of the United States. came to the hands of the said
James A. Girault, as such receiver, after the execution of said
bond, nor were there any. such public moneys, for the payment
of which the defendants were chargeable by virtue of the said
bond, received by him prior to the execution of. the same, remaining in the hands of the said receiver, in his official capacity, at the time of the execution of said bond, or at any time
thereafter, which had not been paid or accounted for according
to law, before the commencement of this suit, which the defendants- are ready to verify; wherefore they pray judgment,"
&c.
To these pleas the attorney for the United States demurred.
The court sustained the demurrer to the firsi plea, overruled
it as to the second, third, and fourth- and adjudged that the
plaintiffs be barred from having their aforesaid action.
To review this judgment the United States sued out a -writ
of error, and brought the case up to this court.
I It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Crittenden
(Attorney-General), for the United States, and .Mr. Cocke, for
the defendants.

Mr. Crittenden, for the appellants.
As the demurrer brings all the pleadings before the court for
judgment, to be rendered for the party who shall, on the whole
record, appear to be ightfully entitled to judgment, it is proper
to point out the defects in all the pleas of the appellees.
A demurrer admits only such facts as are well pleaded;
never admits the law as deduced by the pleader from the facts
pleaded, but refers the lax to the judgment of the court, and
may well be entered for a false allegation of law. U. States v.
Arnold, 1 Gall. 348.
L The first plea is ill,.for several reasons: 1. The action is in debt on a bond, and it is not a good plea
that the plaintiffs accepted another bond in satisfaction of the
old bond, and for the damages upon the breach of the old
bond; for that is no satisfaction, actual and present, as it

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

25

The United States v. Girault et aL

ought td be. Lovelace v. Cocket, Hobart, 68; 4 Bac. Abr.
.Pleasand Pleading,(L) p. 87.
2. The new bond, pleaded with a condition retrospective,
with intent to include and cover breaches of duty committed
by the receiver, before the date of the new bond, was void as
to that, and not binding on the securities; and therefore
could not be satisfaction for the bond, and the breaches and
damages in the declaration alleged. Armstrong v. U. States,
Peters, C. C. Rep. 46.
3. The plea alleges a bond by Girault and his sureties, of
the 25th-of September, 1840, of a character Nich no officer of
thfe government of the United States had any lawful power or
rightful authority to agree to accept, or to accept or receive in
lieu or in satisfaction of the said prior lawful bond, debt, and
damages, in the declaration mentioned.
4. The said plea does not traverse the bond and condition
-declared upon, nor the breach alleged in the declaration, but,
confessing the said bond, condition, and breach, the plea sets
up matters of defence which in law do not amount to any
avoidance or sufficient defence of the cause of action in the
declaration charged and averred.
5. The plea does not aver to what officer or agent of the
government of the United States the said alleged bond of 25th
-Selitember, 1840, was delivered, nor what officer or agent of
the government of the United States agreed to accept said
bond in lieu, discharge, and satisfaction of the bond in the
declaration mentioned; neither does the plea pver, show, or
rely upon any law, authority, or rightful power in any officer,
agent, atorey, or minister of the government of the United
States, to agree to and accept such accord and satisfaction as
is in said plea relied upon and pleaded; neither in point of
law had any person competent authority or rightful power, for
and on behalf of the government of the United States, to agree
to and accept any such accord and satisfaction as in said plea
is supposed and alleged.
IL and IIL The second and third pleas are ill; they allege
acts done and committed by the officer Girault, which were
in violation of the duties of his office, in direct breach of the
condition of his official bond mentioned in the declaration;
which acts, so alleged by the pleas, rendered the officer Girault
and his sureties liable to the United States for the amount of
money specified in those official receipts and official returns.
The pleas allege nothing t6 exonerate Girault and his sureties
from liability to the government for the amount of money
specified in those receipts and reports.
The receiver Girault and his sureties are liable to the governVOL. xr.

3

26

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault et al.

ment upon the official receipts and official returns made by the
receiver; and whether he did or did not in fact receive the
money before he issued his receipts, and made his oifcial returns thereof, is immaterial. He is chargeable, and so are his
sureties, upon his official receipts and returns,-because those
receipts issued and those returns entitled the persons to whom
those receipts were given, and their alienees, to patents for the
lands mentioned in the-receipts as having been paid for.
The receiver and his sureties cannot require of the government to. go behind those official receipts and official reports,
to prove- by evidence aliunde that the receiver's receipts and
official returns are not false, and, that in point of fact he did
receive the money.
The receiver and his sureties are-estopped by his official receipts and official returns of money received.
The interests of the government in respect of the sale of the
public lands would be in a perilous condition, if the government could be required by such pleas as these, No. 2 and 3, to
go into an inquiry., by parol proof or evidence aliu de, whether
the official receipts and official returns of the receivers of pullic
moneys were true or false.
Pleas No. 2 and 3 confess the matters alleged in the declaration, confess the cause of action, without alleging any lawful
avoidance.
IV. The fourth plea which is pleaded in bar concludes with
a verification, contains no traverse of the matter alleged in the
insufficient.
declaration, and is totally illegal and
. The plaintiffs could -have made no other replication to this
plea, than by repeating the assignment of breach contained in
the declaration.
If the plaintiffs had so replied, still there would have beeu no
issue joined; the defendants might have rejoined by repeating
this fourth plea, to which the plaintiffs could have sub-rejoined
nothing more than the assignment of breach as first made in
the declaration; 'and so the pleadings might have progressed
without end, ard without an issue.. The plaintiffs were by force
of this mode and form of special pleading under the necessity
of demurring, so that the insufficiency and illegality of the plea
might be judicially determined.
The declaration contains a material, positive averment of
matter of facts in breach of the condition of the bond sued onl
which material averment is not traversed by, the plea, as it
should have been, whereby that matter and the cause of action
are admitted by the defendants. Toland v.'Sprague, 12 Pet. 335;
Hudson v. Jones, I Salk. 91; Blake v. West et al. 1 Ld. Rayin.
504; 4 Bac. Abr., .PleasiandPleadig, (H.) traverse, pp. 67-83.
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

27

The United States v. Girault et al.

This plea is not direct, positive, and single, as required by
law, but is uncertain, argumentative, double, multifarious,
equivocal, and evasive; it contains a negative pregnant with
an affirmative, and an affirmative pregnant with a negative; it
is contradictory the one part thereof to another; it first alleges
that no moneys came to the hands of Girault as receiver after
the execution of the bond sued on; and next alleges argumentatively, that all moneys which came to the hands of the receiver, with which the sureties were chargeable, had been paid
or accounted for according to law before the commencement of
this suit If this plea amounts ti any defense at all, it is in the
beginning a general denial that any moneys had come to the
hands of Girault, and in the after part it argumentatively asserts that all the public moneys which came to Girault's hands
as receiver had been paid and accounted for before suit; provided, however, that the plea is to be understood as relating
only to such moneys as the defendants, the sureties of Girault,
were chargeable with by virtue of their bond.
A' defendant is not at liberty to plead specially a plea that
amounts to the general issue; much less to plead thegeneral
issue, argumentatively, with duplicity, and with uncertainty. 4
Bac. Abr., Pleas and Pleading, (G,) p. 54; 3 of special pleas, p.
60, (I.); 5, p. 97; 6 , p. 98.
This plea is framed to let in the matters of. pleas No 2 and
3; seems to be intended as a special plea of "non infregit,"
a special plea of "conditions performed," with the qualification
annexed, that if the principal, Girault, did break the condition
of the bond, or did not perform the condition of the bond, yet
they, the sureties, are not bound for the breaches and non-performance. It may properly be denominated "Point-no-Point,"
which the attorney of the United State* could meet in. no
other way than by a deniurrer.

Mr. Cocke, for defendants.
The demurrer admits the truth of the facts severally pleaded.
We hold that it was competent for the United States to contract to receive the bond mentioned in the first plea in lieu and
satisfaction of the one sued on, and we are at a loss to perceive
upon what principle the court below sustained the demurrer to
the first plea.
This court is respectfully requested to bear in mind, that the
only breach relied upon in this action is the refusal of Girault
to pay over moneys alleged to have been collected and received
by him in his official capacify.
By the pleadings in the cause it is admitted, that he did not
receive any money; that he issued certificates for land without

28

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault et al.

paVment therefor; and that he had fully paid over and accounted to the treasury of the United States for all moneys
received by him officially, prior to the institution of this suit.
Which facts constitute, in our opinion, a full bar to this action.
We submit that it is too important to the treasury of the
United States for a receiver of a land-office to have power, by
fabricated certificates of purchase of public land, to change the
title, and, by seeking to charge sureties for the supposed purchase-money, to obtain valid title to any portion of the public
domain.
The result in every case would be a total insolvency, and hi
loss to the government of the money and the land. It is believed that the legislation on the subject does not contemplate
the power to make such a disposition of the public lands.
We consider that the principles relied upon in said pleas are
well settled in the case of the United States against Boyd and
others, 5 Howard's Supreme Court Reports, 29, to which we
respectfully refer the court, and on which we confidently'rely,
and insist that the judgment be affirmed, and the plaintiffs
barred of their action. But if, contrary to our expectations,
the matters set forth in the second, third, and fourth pleas are
not held sufficient to bar the' plaintiffs, then we request the
consideration and judgment of the court on the sufficiency for
*suchbar in the matters of the first plea.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court held in and for
iMississippi.
the Northern District cf
The action was brought on the official bond of Girault, a
receiver of the public money, against him and his. sureties.
The bond is dated the 8th of July, 1838, and conditioned that
he shall faithfully execute and discharge the duties of the office
of receiver."
The breach assigned is, that on the 2d of June, 1840, the said
- Girault had received a large amount of the public moneys, to
wit, the sum of $ 8,952.37, which he had neglected and refused
to pay over to the government.
All the defendants were personally served with process.
The sureties appeared. and pleaded, .1. That after the making of the bond in the declaration mentioned, and before the commhencement of the suit, to wit, on the
25th of September, 1840, a certain other official bond. was given
by GirAult and others to the plaintiffs, describing it, which they
accepted in full discharge and satisfaction of the first one.
2. That on the 2d of June, 1840, and on divers days before
that day, the said Girault gave receipts as receiver for moneys

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

29

The United States v. Girault et al.

paid on the entry of certain lands therein specified, and returned'the same to the Treasury Department, to the amount of
ten thousand dollars, and of which the amount in the declaration mentioned was part and parcel. And that neither the
ten thousand dollars, nor any part thereof, was paid to or received by him, the said Girault.
3. The safae as the second, except that the receipts- given
were for several parcels of land entered by Girault for his own.
use.
A. That no public moneys of the United States came to
the hands of Girault, as receiver, after the' execution of the
bond, nor were there any received by him, for which the defendants were accountable by virtue of said bond, prior to the
execution of the same, remaining in his hands as suoh receiver
at the time of the execution, or at any time afterwards, which
had not been paid over and accounted for according to law be-fore the commencement of the suit.
To these several pleas, the plaintiffs put ii a general demur-'
rer, to which there was a joinder.
The court gave judgment for the plaintiffs on the first plea;
and for the defendants on the second, third, aid fourth. Upon
which the plaintiffs'bring error
The first plea is not before us, as judgmentwas rendered for
the plaintiffs. It is undoubtedly bad, as the new bond could
be no satisfaction for the damages that had accrued for the
breach of the condition of the old one. Lovelace v. Cocket,
Hobart, 68; Bac. Abr., tit. Pleas, 2, p. 289.
The second and third pleas are also bad, and the cburt
below erred in giving judgment for the defendants upon them.
They are pleas, not to the declaration or breach charged, but
to the evidenQe ipon which it is assumed the plaintiffs will
rely at the trial, to maintain the action. The breach is general,
that the defendant Girault has in his possession' eight thousand
nine hundred and fifty-two dollars and thirty-seven cents of
the public moneys, which he neglects and refuses to pay over.
The defendants answer, that the evidence which the receiver
has furnished the plaintiffs of this indebtedness is false and
fabricated; and that no part of the sum in question was ever
collected or received by him; thereby placing the defence upon
the assumption of a fact or facts which may or may not be
material in the case, and upon which the plaintiffs may or may
not rely in making out the indebtedness. A defendant has no
right to anticipate or undertake to control by-his pleadings the
nature or character of the proof upon which his adversary may
think proper to rely in support of his cause of action, nor to
ground his defence upon any such proofs. He must deal with
3*

30

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault -et al.

the facts as they*are set forth in the declaration; and not with
the supposed or presumed evidence of .them.
If the defendants are right in the principle sought to be
maintained in their second and third pleas, .a denial of any
public moneys being in tle hands of the receiver for which
theywere liable within the condition of their bond would have
answered all their purposes. For if the plaintiffs possess no
other"evidence of iheir liability than that of the fabricated
receipts, and the sureties are not responsible for the moneys
thus acknoWledged, nor estopped from controverting them, a
plea to the effect above stated would have enabled them to
present that defence.
The principle, however, upon which these pleas are founded,
is as indefensible as the rule of pleading adopted for the purpose of setting it up.
The condition of the bond is, that Girault shall faithfully
execute and discharge the duties of his office as a receiver of
the public moneys. The defendants have bound themselves
for the fulfilment of these duties; and are, of course, responsible for the very fraud committed upon the government by
that officer, which is sought to be set up here in bar of the
action on the bond.
As Girault would not be allowed to set up his own fraud
for the purpose of disproving the evidence of his indebtedness,
we do not see but- that, upon the same principle, they should
be estopped from setting it up as committed by one for whose
fidelity they have become responsible.
This is not like the-case of the United States v. Boyd and
others (5 How. 29). There the receipts which had been returned to the Treasury Department, upon which the indebtedness was founded, and which had been given on entries of
the public lands without exacting the money, in fralid of the
government, were all given before the execution of the official
bond upon'which the suit was brought.
The sureties were not, therefore, responsible for the fraud;
and it was these transactions on the p.rt of the receiver,
which had transpired anterior to the time when the sureties
became answerable for the faithful execution of his duties, in
respect to which it was held that they could not be estopped
by his returns to the government. No part of them fell within
the time covered by the official bond.
The fourth plea affords a full and complete answer to the
breach assigned in the declaration, and should not have been
demurred to. As it takes issue ipon the breach, it should
have concluded to fne country; but this defect is available
only by a special demurrer.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

31

The United Sfates v. Girault et al.

As the demurrer-put in is general to the four several pleas,
if any one of them constituted a good bar to the action, the
demurrer is bad., On this ground the judgment was properly
given against the plaintiffs in the court below.
They should have asked leave to withdraw the demurrer as
to the fourth plea, and have taken issue upon it, instead of allowing the judgment to stand, and bringing it to this court on
error.
Indeed, when these pleas were put in, -he plaintiffs, in order
that the case might be disembarrassed of any technical objections or difficulties on account of the pleadings, should have
amended their declaration by assigning additional breaches
covering the malfeasance in office set up in the second and
third pleas. This would have met the grounds of the defence
raised by them, and have presented the issues appropriately
upon the condition of the bond, whether or not the receiver
had faithfully executed the duties of his office.
The defendant Girault, it appears, was personally served
with'process, but did not appear. The plaintiffs have not proceeded to judgment, nor discontinued their proceedings, as to
him. As the case stands, therefore, there is a joint suit against
four defendants on the bond, a judgment in favor of three, and
the suit as to the fourth undisposed of.
According to the practice in Mississippi, founded upon a
statute of the State, in the case of a joint action on a bond or
note, separate judgments may be taken against the several defendants, whether by default or on verdict; and the plaintiff
may take judgment against some of the defendants, and-iscontinue as to others. But it is there deemed error, for which
the judgment will be reversed, if final judgment is entered up
by the plaintiff before the case is finally disposed of in respect
to all the parties on the record. 9 Howard, (Mis.) 870; 4 Tb.
377; 6 Ib. 517; 7 1b. 304.
In the case in 6 Howard, above cited, the plaintiffs brought
a suit against two defendants on a sealed note. The writ was
returned served as to one of theni, and non est as to the other.
The declaration was filed against both, and the one personally
served appeared and defended; and a verdict was found
against him on which judgment was entered, the case remaining undisposed of as to the other defendant. On appeal
the court reversed the judgment,, remarking that the case
should have been disposed of as to all the parties; there is
no judgment of discontinuance or dismissal as to one of 'the
defendants.
The same point was ruled in the case in 2 Howard above
referred to; and -also in that in 7 Howard. In the last case it

32

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Girault et al.

is said that it is irregular to enter a final judgment against
part of the defendants without disposing of the cause against
the others; that it was regular to take judgment by default
against those who did not plead; but the judgment in the case
should not have been finally entered until the cause was ready
for final disposition as to all.
The practice in this court, in case the judgment or decree is
not final, is to disrriiss the writ of error or appeal for want of
jurisdiction, and remand it to the court below to be further proceeded in. 4 Dallas, 22; 3 Wheat. 433; 4Tb. 75 ; 6 Howard,
201, 206.
This is also the rule of the King's Bench in England. Mletcalfe's case, 11 Co. 38. It is there laid down in the second
resolution, that by the words in the writ, sijudicium inde redditurn sit, &c., are intended, not onry a judgment in the c'iief
matters ir controversy, but also in the whole of them, so that
the suit may be at an end. The reason given is, that, if the
record should be removed before the whole matter is determined in the court below,-there would be a failure of justice,
as the Kin-'s Bench canfot proceed upon the matters not determined, and upon which no judgment is given, and the
whole record must be in the Common Pleas or King's Bench.
It is entire, and cannot be in both courts at the same time.
The writ is .conditional, and does not authorize the court
below to send up the case unless all the matters- between all
the parties to the record have been finally disposed of. The
case is not to be sent up in fragments, by a succession of writs
of error. Peet v. MdcGfaw, 21 Wend: 667.
It is supposed that, inasmuch as judgment is allowed to be
entered separately against two or more defendants sued jointly
upon a bond or note, according to the statute of Mississippi,
the severance of the cause of action is complete; and that any
one defendant against whom judgment may be thus entered
can bring erior, although the case has not been disposed of as
to the other defendants. And for a like reason, when a judgment is rendered in favor of one defendant against the plaintiff, the latter may bring error before the suit has been disposed
of in respect to the others.
But we have seen that the practice is otherwise under thisstatute, and that final judgment cannot be properly entered
against any of the parties until the whole case is disposed of;
and that any neglect in the observance of the rule exposes the
judgment to a reversal on error in the appellate court.
According to the practice of this court, the judgment cannot
be reversed on account of the error, but the case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and remanded to the court
I
below, to be p-oceeded in and finally disposed of.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

33

Oakey v. Bennett et al.

As the case must come before that court for further proceedings, it may, in its discretion, on a proper application, relieve
the plaintiffs from the embarrassments in which the justice of
it seems to have been involved, on account of the unsklfulness
of the pleader, by opening the judgment on the demurrer, and
permitting them to amend the pleadings. It is appaient that
judgment has been rendered against them, without at all involving the merits of the case.
The writ of error is dismissed, and the cause remanded to
the court below.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the-District Court of the United States for the Northem District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that this. writ of error be, and the same is hereby,
dismissed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to proceed
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

SAIUEL W. OAKEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. JOHN H. BENNETT, AD.
IIINISTRATOR OF WILLIAI HALL, AND JOHN H. ILLIES.
A decree in bankruptcy passed, in 1843, by the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, did'not pass to the assignee the title to a
house and lot in the city of Galveston and State of Texas, which house and lot
were the property of the bankrupt.
Texas was then a foreign state, and whatever difference of opinion there may be
with respect to the extra-territorial operation of a bankrupt law upon personal
property, there is none as to its operation up-rn real estate. This court concurs
with Sir William Grant, in 14 Vesey, 537, that the validity of every disposition of
real estate must depend upon the law of the country in which that estate is
situated.
Besides, the deed made by the assignee in bankruptcy to one of the parties in the
present cause was not nade conformably with the laws of Texas; and letters of
administration upon the estate of the bankrupt had been taken out in Texas before the fact of the bankruptcy was known there; and the creditors of the estate
in 'Iexas had a better lien upon the property than the assignee in Louisiana.

THIs cause was brought up, by writ of error, from the
District Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
It was an ejeetment, conducted by way of petition and answer, for a house and lot in the county and city of Galveston,
in the State of Texas, being lot No. 13 in block No. 681.
The suit was brought by Oakey against Bennett, the admin-

