DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

297

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et aL

The proceedings in relation to that writ were in due time, and.
when docketed in this court it stayed executioji, by force of
the act of Congress, while the case was here pending. And it
was in this view of the case, that the court deemed it their
duty to enforce the stay by awarding a supersedeas. It was
upon this ground that the writ was issued, and not under the
removal by the second writ of error; nor was it issued under
the fourteenth section 6f the act of 1789, as would seem to
have been the case, from some mistake or oversight in framing
the orders and entries. For the court is unanimously of opinion, that, in the exercise of their appellate power, they are not
authorized to award a supersedeas to stay proceedings on the
judgment of the inferior court, upon the ground that a writ of
error is pending, unless the writ was sued out within ten days
after the judgment, and in conformity with the provisions of
the twenty-third section of the act of 1789. And if the case of
Hardeman v. Anderson had been considered as pending here
by force of the second writ of error, no supersedeas could lawfully have been issued.
The case now before us was not brought up by the first writ
for want ofthe citation. There is no ground, therefore, for reinstating the case in this court upon that writ. And the second
writ, by which alone it has been brought here, and by virtue of
which it is now pending, was not sued out in time to operate
as a supersedeas; and this court have not the power to award
one.

The motion must, therefore, be overruled.
Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Mr. Featherston
for a writ of supersedeas in this cause, and the arguments of
counsel thereupon had, as well against as in support thereof, it
is now here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and
the same is hereby, overruled.

JEREIIAH VAN RENSSELAER,. ArPELLANT, V. PHILIP KEARNEY AND

FREDERIC DE PEYSTER, TRUSTEES AND EXECUTORS Or JOHN WATTSs
DECEASED, CATHERINE G. VISSCHER, CORNELIUS G. VAN RENSSELAER, AND GLEN VAN RENSSELAER, DEFENDANTS.
In 178G the legislature of New York passed a law declaring that "all estates tal
shall be. and hereby are, abolished"; and if any peison should thereafter become
seized in fee tail of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments by virtue of any devis%
&c., he should be deemed to have become seized in fee simple absolute.

298

SUPREME' COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

This included an estate tail in remainder, as well as one in possession. The courts
in New York have so decided, and this court adopts their construction.
The remainder-man dying during the lifetime of the life tenant, the latter, being the
father, inherited from the son a fee simple absolute.
Whilst the remainder-man was yet alive, the life tenant sold the property and conveyed it to the vendee by a deed which, according to its true construction, affirmed
the existence of an estate in fee simple in itself. The reasons for this construction
stated.
Those claiming under him are estopped by this deed. The doctrine of estoppel explained.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, sitting as a
court of equity. It was-a bill filed by the appellant, Jeremiah
Van Rensselaer, against John Watts originally, and continued
against his trustees and executors, praying for an account of

the rents of certain property, and for the surrender of the leases,

title-deeds, &c.
In order to see at a glance the derivation of the title, the
following table is referred to: -

The testator, died 1783.
t Dead at he date of the will.
I The devisee, died 1828.

Born 1791, died 1813, without issue.
born 1793.

II The complainant,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

299

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

On the 25th of May, 1782, John Van Rensselaer was seized
of a large body of land, about thirty-four thousand acres, a
part of which had been leased on permanent ground rents, and
a part leased for life or for years. The residue was owned by
him in fee simple. On that day he made and published his
last will and testament, by which he devised Claverack Manor
to trustees during the life of John J. Van Rensselaer, his grandson, with the intent to create an estate tail, the rents and profits to the use of John J. Van Rensselaer during his lifetime and
the remainder over to the issue male of the said John, and in
case of failure of such issue, then to the issue male of the
other sons of the testator. Provision was then made for rais.
ing portions for female issue.
On the 12th of July, 1782, a law was passed in New Yofk
abolishing entails, and on the 29th of July, 1782, the testator
added a codicil to his -will, alluding to the law.
In 1783 the testator died, and John J. Van Rensselaer, the
devisee, entered into possession of the estate.
On the 23d of February, 1786, the legislature of New York
passed an act (3 R. S. N. Y., 1st ed., App. 48; 1 R. L. 1813,
p. 52), declaring "That all estates tail shall be, and hereby are,.
abolished; and that, in all cases where any person or persons
now is, or, if the act hereinafter mentioned [referring to the act
passed on 12th July, 1782] had not been passed, would now
be, seized in fee tail of any lands, tenements, or heteditaments,
such person and persons shall be deemed to be seized of the
same in fee simple absolute; and further, that in all cages
where any person or persons would, if the said act and this
present-act had not been passed, at any time hereafter become
seized in fee tail of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by
virtue of any devise, gift, grant, or other conveyance heretofore
made or hereafter to be made, or by any other means whatso.
ever, such person or persons, instead of becoming seized thereof
in fee tail, shall be deemed and adjudged to become seized
thereof in fee simple absolute."
In 1791 John was born, who was the first-born son of the
devisee. It may as well be mentioned here, that he died in
1813, leaving his father surviving him. After John there were
born other children, viz. Jeremiah, who was' the complainant
below and appellant here, Catherine, who intermarried with
one Visseher, Glen, and Cornelius.
In 1794, the condition of the estate was this. Much the
larger proportion of it was held under leases, which had been
made to different persons at different 'times, and the residue
was held by. John J. Van Rensselaer. The leases were, some
of them, executed by Hendrick Van Rensselaer and John Van

300

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

Rensselaer, the ancestors of the said John J.; and some executed by John J. Van Rensselaer himself. These leases for the
most part created perpetual ground rents, and those which did
not create perpetual ground rents were for the lives of the
lessees. Two mortgages upon the property, had also been
given by John J. Van Rensselaer to Philip Schuyler, for three
thousand one hundred pounds each.
This being the state of the property in 1794, John J. Van
Rensselaer entered into aii agreement with Daniel Penfield, on
the 4th of November of that-year. As these articles were
much discussed in the argument, it is proper to make extracts
from them as to those points which were the subject of discussion.
"Articles of agreement had, made, entered into, and finally
concluded upon this fourth day of November, in the year of
our-Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, by and
between John J. Van Rensselaer of Greenbush, in the county
of Rensselaer, of the one part, and Daniel Penfield of the city
of New York, of the other part, witnesseth: Imprimis, the said
John J. Van Rensselaer, for himself, his heirs, executors, and
administrators, doth covenant, grant, and agree, to and with
the said Daniel Penfield, his heirs, executors, and administrators, that he, the said John J. Van Rensselaer, together with
Catherine, his wife, shall and will, within the term of three
months from the date hereof, by a good and, sufficient deed
and c6nveyance in the law, such as by the counsel of the said
Daniel Penfield, his heirs or assigns, shall be reasonably advised, devised, or required, and that free and clear, and freely
acquitted and discharged of and from all encumbrances and
charges, other than leases heretofore given by the said John J.
Van Rensselaer and his ancestors, assign, release, 6onvey, assure, bargain, sell, grant, and confirm unto the said Daniel
Penfield, his heirs and assigns for.ever, all the right, title, interest, property, claim, and demand, either in possession, reversion, or remainder, of him, the said John J. Van Rensselaer'
and Catherine, his wife, of, in, or to all that tract and parcel
of land situate, lying, and being in the town of Claverack, and
city of Hudson, and county of Columbia, and included within
the boundaries following, to wit, that is to say: Beginning,"
&c., (going on to describe the land$) "together with all and singular the waters, watercourses, and streams of water, profits,
advantages, hereditaments, and appurtenance whatsoever thereunto appertaining and belonging, or which have been considered and used, or now are used and occupied, as part and parcel thereof, in as full and ample a manner as the said John J.
Van Rensselaer now hath and enjoyeth the same, and in as

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

301

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et aL

full and ample a manner as the same have heretofore been had
and enjoyed by the' said John J. Van -Rensselaer, or lawfully
may be had, used, occupied, posse§sed; and enjoyed by him,
his heirs or assigns: To have and to. hold the same unto the
said-Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assigns for ever, excepting,
reserving, and saving thereout ah the land included within the
foregoing and above-described boundaries, which have been
heretofore granted," &c. (going on to enumerate the leases
made and agreed to be made).
Then f6llowed covenants on the part of Penfield to pay for
the quantity of land, to pay the mortgages to Schuyler, to secure the payment of the instalments by mortgage, to execute
leases to the persons with whom John J. had agreed that leases
should be made, and other covenants, which it is not material
to state.
On the 1st of January, 1795, John J. Van Rensselaer and
Catherine, his wife, executed the deed to Penfield, in conformity with the above articles. The deed is short, and, as many
parts of it were criticized in the argument, it may be proper
to insert it entire.
"This indenture, made the first day of January, 1795, between John J. Van Rensselaer, of the- county of Rensselaer
and State of New York, esquire, and Catherine, his wife, of
the one part, and Daniel Penfield, of the city of New York;
esquire, of the other part: Whereas certain articles of agreement, indented, were made and executed by and between the
said John J. Van Rensselaer of the one part, and the said
Daniel Penfield of the other part, bearing date the fourth day
of November last past, in the words following, to wit: Imprimis, the said John J. Van Rensselaer, for himself, his heirs,
executors, and administrators, doth covenant, grant, and agree,
to and with the said Daniel Penfield, his heirs, executors, and
administrators, that he, the said John J. Van Rensselaer, together with Catherine, his wife, within the term of three
months from the date hereof, by a good and sufficient deed and
conveyance in the law, such as by the 'counsel of the said
Daniel Penfield, his heirs oIr assigns, shall be reasonably advised, devised, or required, and that free and clear, and freely
acquitted and discharged of and from all endumbrances and
charges other than leases heretofore given by the said John J.
Van Rensselaer and his ancestors, assign, release, convey, assure, bargain, sell, grant, and confirm unto the said Daniel
Penfield, his heirs and assigns for*ever, all the right, title, interest, property, claim, and demand, either in possession, reversion, or remainder, of him, the said John J. Van Rensselaer,
VOL. X1.

26

302

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

and Catherine, his wife, of, in, or to all that tract and parcel
of land, situate, lying, and being in the town of Claverack, and
city of Hudson, in the county of Columbia, and included within the boundaries following, to wit, that is to say: Beginning
at the mouth of Major Abr4ham's or Kinderhook Creek; thence
running south eighty-four degrees and thirty-eight minutes east,
ten miles; thence running south forty degrees west, as far as
the right of John Van Rensselaer, the grandfather of the said
John J. Van Rensselaer, extended; from thence to Wahankasick; and thence up Hudson River to the place of beginning;
together with all and singular the waters, watercourses, and
streams of water, profits, advantages, hereditaments, and appurtenances whatsoever thereunto appertaining or belonging,
and which have been considered and used, or now are used
and occupied, as part and parcel thereof, in as full and ample
a manner as the said John J. Van Rensselaer now hath and enjoyeth the same, and in as full and ample a manner as the
same have heretofore been had and enjoyed by the said John
J. Van Rensselaer, or lawfully may be had, used, occupied,
possessed, and enjoyed by him, his heirs or assigns: To have
and to hold the same unto the. said Daniel Penfield, his heirs
and assigns for ever, excepting, reserving, and saving thereout
all the land included within the foregoing and above-described
boundaries, which have been heretofore granted by letters patent prior to the grants, patents, and confirmations under which
the right and title of the said John . Van Rensselaer is derived;
excepting also all lands sold or granted otherwise than by lease
by the late John Van7 Rensselaer, deceased, and the aforesaid
John J. Van Rensselaer, and all the lands granted by lease
from the said John Van"Rensselaer, deceased, to Robert Van
Rensselaer, situate, lying, and being in the said town of Claverack, in the county of Columbia; and excepting also the quantity of fifty'acres of woodland, to be granted by the said Daniel
Penfield to Henry J. Van Rensselaer, and situate within the
-boundaries bef6re mentioned and described, and to be by them
agreed on; and excepting also, all that tract of land situate in
the city of Hudson and town of Claverack, formerly devised
by Hendrick Van Rensselaer to Henry Van Rensselaer, deceased; and excepting, also, the farm of land in possession of
the representatives of Eytie Moore, do eased, and by the said
John J. Van Rensselaer conveyed to John Van Rensselaer, which
said deed shall be duly acknowledged by the said John IJ. Van
Rensselaer and Catharine, his wife, pursuant t6 the act in such
case made and provided, as in and by the said articles of agreement, relation being -thereunto especially had, may among
other things more fully appear.

DECEMBER TERM, 18I 0.

303

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et aL

" Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth, that the said John
J. Van. Rensselaer ahd Catharine, his wife, for and in consideration of the sum-of forty-four thousand five hundred and fifty
dollars to them in hand paid, the receipt whereof they do hereby acknowledge, and therefrom release and discharge the said
Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assignshave granted, bargained,
sold, aliened, enfeoffed, assured, released, and confirmed, and
by these presents do grant, bargain, sell, alien, enfeoff, assure,
release, and confirm, unto the said Daniel Penfield, (in his ac
tual possession now being, by virtue of a bargain and sale t
him thereof made for one whole year by the said John J.. Van,
Rensselaer, by indenture bearing date the day next I~efore the
day of the date of these presents, and by force of the statute for
transferring uses into possession,) and to his heirs and assigns
for ever, all and singulat the aforesaid tract of land above described, lying and being in the town of Claverack and city of
Hudson, and so butted and bounded as is above particularly
mentioned, together with all and singular the waters, watercourses, and streams of water, profits,, advantages, hereditaments, and appurtenances whatsoever thereto appertaining and
belonging, or which have been considered and used, or now are
used and occupied, as part and parcel thereof, excepting, reserving, and saving thereout all the lands included within the
foregoing and above-described boundaries, which are excepted,
saved, and reserved in the said in part recited articles of agreement; which said tract of land, after deducting the said exceptions, reservations, and savings,'contains the quantity of thirtythree thousand six hundred and fifty-eight acres of land, and
the reversion and reversions, remainder and remainders, rents,
issues, services, and profits thereof, and also all leases of and
concerning any part or parts of the said granted premises; and
also all the estate, right, title, interest, property, possession,
claim, and demand of them, the said John J. Van Rensselaer
and Catherine, his wife, of, in, and to the same: To have and
to hold the said tract of land so described, and so butted and.
bounded as above recited, excenting, saving, and reserving,
as are above particularly excepted, saved, and reserved, unto
the said Daniel Pefifield, his heirs and assigns, to the only
proper use and behoof of the said Daniel Penfield, his heirs and
assigns for ever, in as full and ample a manner as the said John
J. Van Rensselaer now hath and enjoyeth the same, and in as
full and ample a manner as the same hath heretofore been had
and enjoyed by the said John J. Van Rensselaer, or lawfully
might, if these presents were not made, be had, used, occupied,
possessed, and enjoyed by him, his heirs or assigns. And the
said John J. 'Van Rensselaer, for himself, his heirs, executors.

804

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et aL

and administrators, doth covenant, grant, and agree, to and
with the said Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assigns, in manner
following, that is to say: that the said tract of land described,
bntted and bounded as aforesaid, excepting, saving, and reserving as above are excepted, saved, and reserved, is free and
clear, and shall and may be held and enjoyed by the said
Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assigns, according to the true intent and meaning of these presents, freely and clearly acquitted
and discharged of and from all encumbrances and charges,
other than leases heretofore given by the said John J. Van
Rensselaer and his ancestors, or any of them, and except a certain mortgage upon the premises executed by the said John J.
Van Rensselaer to Philip Schuyler, esquire, dated the 11th day
of August1 1791, to secure the payment of three thousand one
hundred pounds.
"In witness whereof the parties to these presents have hereunto interchangeably set their hands and seals, the day aiid
year first above written.
"JOHN J. VAN RENSSELAER,

L S.

CATHERINE VAN RENSSELAER. [L.

"

On the 15th of October, 1806, Penfield and wife conveyed

all the property to John Watts, enumerating in the deed all the
leases, which were to stand good.
In 1813 John Van Rensselaer, the eldest son of John J., died,
without issue.

On the 26th of September, 1828,. John J. Van Rensselaer,
who had sold the property to Watts, died also.
At some time previous to the year 1836, but when the record did not show, Jeremiah Van Rensselaer, a citizen of New
Jersey, being the eldest surviving son of John J., filed his bill in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, against John Watts, and against Catherine G.
Visscher, Coinelius G. Van Rensselaer, and Glen Van Rensselaer. In the bill he alleged that all the estate and interest
which John J. Van Rensselaer acquired under the will of his
grandfather was an estate for his own life merely, and that the
said John J. was unable to vest, and did not vest, any greater
interest in Penfield. Claiming the whole estate, he called upon
Watts for an account of the rents and profits, and for a surrender of the title papers.
As to his brothers and sister the bill proceeded thus: "Your orator further charges, that the said Catherine (.
Visscher, Cornelius G. Van Rensselaer, and Glen Van Rensselaer, who are citizens of the State of New York, give out and
pretend that the said John J. Van Rensselaer had a son named

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

305

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

John Van Rensselaer, who, as they allege, was born in the year
1791, and died in the year 1813; and they further allege, that
upon his birth the 'said estate, devised to the eldest son of the
said John J. Van Rensselaer in and by the said will, vested in
the said John Van Rensselaer; and that, by the operation of
law, it was turned into an estate in fee, and descended, upon
the death of the said John Van Rensselaer, to the said John J.
Van Rensselaer; and that upon the death of the said' John J.
Van Rensselaer, in the year 1828, it descended to his heirs at
law as tenants in common, whereby, as they allege, they are
each entitled to a fourth part of the said estate, and to the
rents and profits accruing thereupon. Whereas your orator
chaiges, that the said estate, and the rents and profits thereof,
belong to him."
The bill then prayed that the complainant might be quieted
in his title to the whole of the premises, or, in case it should be
decided that he was entitled only to one fourth part, then that
the court would decree accordingly.
The brothers and sister answered, admitting the facts stated in
the bill, and submitting themselves to the judgment of the court.
Watts put in a plea, denying all knowledge of any title except that of Penfield at the time of his purchase, and prayed
that he might not be compelled to answer further. The court
allowed the plea to stand as to the discovery, but ordered a
further answer as to the title.
In September, 1836, John Watts died, leaving Philip Kearney and Frederic Do Peyster his executors. A supplemental
bill and bill of revivor was then filed, making them parties, and
also Philip Kearney, Jr., Susan Kearney, and John Watts De
Peyster, the devisees of the property in question. The new
parties answered, and sundry exhibits were filed and depositions taken. In May, 1846, the cause came on for argument in
the Circuit Court, which passed the following decree. Judge
Nelson being unable to attend from sickness, the decree was
given by Judge Betts.
"First. That the remainder in tail, in the premises mentioned in the pleadings in this cause, created by the will of John
Van Rensselaer the elder, vested in John, his great-grandson,
on his birth, in the year 1791, and that said great-grandson
was seized of such remainder.
"Second. 'That the tenant in tail under the said will, acquiring such estate in remainder, became thereby so seized of the
lands, tenements, and hereditaments devised that the act of
February 23d, A D. 1786, converted such estate tail into a
fee simple absolute.

26'

806

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, et al.

"Third. That the said John, the great-grandson of the said
John Van Rensselaer the elder, took the estate in question as
a purchase, and thus became a new stock bf descent, and was
so seized thereof, that, at his death, in the year 1813, the whole
estate descended to his father, John J.Van Rensselaer, and his
heirs at law.
"Fourth. 'That the covenants in the deed of John J.Van
Rensselaer, conveying the premises in question to David Pen.
field, bearing date the 1st day of January, A. D. 1795, amount
in law to a covenant against all encumbrances, except such as
are specifically designated in the said deed, and also to a covenant for quiet enjoyment, subject only to the like exceptions.
"Fifth. That the said coveia~nts in the said deed operate as
an estoppel to John J.Van Rensselaer's claiming the estate
subsequently acquired by him, as against his grantee; and that
the estoppel operates equally against the complainant in this
suit, who makes title to the estate in question as one of the
heirs at law of John J. Van Rensselaer.
"Sixth. That the deed of Daniel Penfield to John Watts,
bearing date the 15th day of October, in the year 1806, conveying the said estate to the said John Watts in fee, with full covenants, entitles his devisees and representatives, now in possession of the premises, and who are defendants in this cause, to
a decree dismissing the complainant's bill in this cause, with
costs.
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the complainant's said bill of complaint be, and the same
hereby is, dismissed; and that the said complainant pay to the
said defendants or their solicitor their costs of this suit, to be
taxed, and that the said defendants have execution therefor according to the course and practice of this court.
(Signed,)
SAMUEL R. BETTS."
The complainant appealed to this court. It was argued by
Mr. Webster and Mfr. Blunt, for the appellant, and 31-..Tordan
and _1r. Wood, for the appellees.
The case was argued at great length, and the reporter can
only stat6 the points raised by the respective counsel.
On the part of the appellant, the points were the following.
In case the decision lately made by the New York court in
Van Rensselaer v. Poucher is to be examined here, pursuant
to the rule established in Lane et al. v. Vick et al., 3 Howard,
476, then the first question is, When was the estate tail created
by the -will converted into a fee, - at the time of the birth of the
eldest son, or at the death of John J.Van Rensselaer, in 1828 ?

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

307

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et aL,

Taking that view of the case, the following points are presented for the appellant: First Point. John Van Rensselaer, the first-born son of
John J. Van Rensselaer, was the first donee in tail, under the
will of Colonel John Van Rensselaer, the devisor.
I. The devise to Morris and Douw, in trust to support the
contingent remainders, &c., vested in the trustees a legal estate
during the life of John J. Van Rensselaer, the grandson of the
devisor. The said John J. Van Rensselaer took only an equitable estate for life, which could not unite with the legal remainder subsequently devised to his sons successively in tail
male.
I. Even if the estate of Jqhff J. Van Rensselaer was executed by the statute of uses, as a legal estate in him, still it
was an express estate for his own life only, and would not,
under the rule in Shelley's case, unite with the remainders
subsequently devised to his sons successively in tail male, and
so create an estate tail in him. The sons thus designated take
as purchasers, and not by descent. Lilly's Practical Conveyancer, 727; 2 BI. Com., App. No. 2; Scarborough v. Saville,
3 Adolph. & Ell. 897; 24 Com. Law, 271; Hays on Estates
Tail, p. 118; 2 BI. Com. 171, notes; 9 Serg. & Rawle, 362;
Willes, 336; Dickens, 183, 195; 35 Com. Law, 246; Butler's
Notes to Co. Litt., No. 249, subd. 2, 3; Bacon's Works, 599;
Touchst. 501; Lewin on Trusts, 2,356, 103, note 1; Cornish
on Uses, 15, 61; 1 Ves. & Beames, 485; 16 Ves. 296; 2 P.
Wins. 680; 4 T. R. 247; 3 Bro. P. C. 464; 4 Kent's Com.
215, 221; Hays on Estates Tail, Proposition 4, pp. 4, 30, 31,
43; 4 Dane's Abr. 633; 3 Wend. 504; 2 Cruise's Dig. 39, tit.
16, ch. 7, § 26.
Second Point. John, the first-born son of John J. Van Rensselaer, took at his birth a vested remainder in fee tail; but as
he died in the lifetime of his father (for whose life the trustees
held), he never became ",seized in fee tail of the lands, tenements, and hereditaments" devised, within the true intent and
meaning of the statutes of 1782 and 1786, for the abolition of
entails in New York. 1 Rev. Laws, 1813, p. 52.
I. The question arises upon well-known technical words;
and they must be construed conformably to their established
import. 6 Bac. Abr. 380, Statute, I. 2; 2 Cranch, 386; Ellmaker v. Ellmaker, 4 Watts, 894 Rutherforth's Institutes, book
.2, ch. 7, § 4.
II. If upon the words the construction be doubtful, it will
be proper to consider the preexisting law, the evil to be remedied, the nature of the remedy designed, and the true reason
of that reinedy. 6 Bac. Abr. 383, Stcdute, L 4.

308

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

III, The public history of the times in which the acts were
passed may be resorted to. Aldridge v. Williams, 3 Howard, 24.
IV. Entails, as practised in England, and in this State prior
to the acts in question, did not unduly suspend the power of
alienation, but only embarrassed it by compelling a resort to
the dilatory and expensive method of conveyance by fine and
recovery. Spencer v. Lord Marlboro, 5 Bro. P. C. 592; 3
Tuckers Bl., p. 116, note 11, p. 363, note 7; Pigott on Rec. 20;
Cruise on Fines and Ree., ch. 1, § 6; 2 Rev. Stat. .34, 24;
Str. 295; 1 Burr. 115; Willes,453; 5 T. R. 108; 2 Bl. CoM.,
App. No. 4, 5; 2 Bl. Com. .353, 355; 2 Wooddeson, 186, 187,
188, 198; 2 Chitty's Blackstone, p. 357, note 18; 24 Com.
Law, 59; Parkhurst v. Dormer, Willes, 327; 13 East, 495;
Taylor v. Horde, 1 Burr. 60; 30 Com. Law, 271; 8 Mass. 36;
2 Rawle, 175; 14 Geo. 2, ch. 20; 3 BI. Com. 362; Wilson's
Pigott on Rec. 27,41; Cowp. 704; 2 Burr. 1067; 2 Woodde.
son, 198; 4 Kent's Com. 18, 22, note b; 3 Call, 287; 14
Wend. 295, 334; 1 Jefferson's Misc. 34.
V. No evil, except the necessity of fines and common recoveries, was supposed to result from entails. Lord Mansfield,
1 Burr. 115; 3 London Law Mag. 371; Doctor and St-dent4
ch. 32, 95; 2 B. Com. 361, A. D. 1765; 9 Serg. & Rawle,
339, 354;. 4 Jefferson's Misc. 178.
1. In the sister States it was so considered, and their contemporaneous legislation conforms to this idea. See review of
such legislation at end of points.
2. Fines and recoveries were at length dispensed with in
England, 3 and 4 Win. IV. ch. 74; 2 Chitty's Gen. Prac.,
Supplement, 79, 80.
3. The legislature of New York never attempted to curtail
the power of suspending alienation until the Revised Statutes
of 1830. It was not an object of the actsin question. Costar
v. Lorrillard, 14 Wend. 294, 334.
4. Nor was the power then curtailed in a greater degree
than it is curtailed by the plaintiff's construction of the acts in
question.
VI. The terms of the acts, if construed literally and strictly,
according to their fixed technical meaning, produce an effect
precisely corresponding with the presumable intent of the legislature, as deducible from a review of the prefxisting law, the
only acknowledged evil of entails,-and the whole history of
contemporaneous remedial legislation.
1 The remainder-man ih fee tail never had at common law
the absolute power of alienation, even by common recovery.
He might bar his own issue by a fine, but he could not affect

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

309

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

the subsequent remainders. 2 Chitty's Blackstone, p. 357,
note 18. He might unite with the tenant for life in suffering a
common recovery, and thus bar the entail; but the assent of
the freeholder was indispensable. See cases before cited. 2
BI.-Com. 362.
2. The acts in question accordingly require, at the moment
when they convert the fee tail into a fee simple, a seizin in fee
tail of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments. Meaning of
word Hereditament. Symonds, 385; Thos. Coke, 197 to 242;
Co. Litt. 6 a, 20, Hargrave's notes, 2 and 24; 2 Tomlyns, 86;
3 Tomlynsi 578; 1 Bouvier, 629; 2 Bouvier, 554; 2 BI. Com.
17 to 48; 4 Dane's Abr. 500; 3 Kent's Com. 401; Cruise's
Dig., book 1, tit. 1, 1; 2 Chitty's Gen. Prac. 153; Flintoff,
ch. 2, 3; Maugham, ch. 1; Roscoe on -Real Actions, p. 16;
Wood's Inst. ch. 1, 2, 3, 4, and p. .113; 1 Finch's Law, 111;
Termes de la Ley,-254; Salk. 685, 239; 8 T. R. 503; 5 T. R.
558;" 1 Bos. & Pul.562; 2 Fos. & Pul. 247; Moseley, 240; 10
Wheat. 216; 9 Serg. & Rawle, 3.56; 6 Bac. Abr. 382, Statute,
1 4; Johnson's Dict.; Ainsworth's Diet., Hcredium; 2 Croker's
Dict., Hereditament; 8 Enc. Brit. 473; 1 Rich. 3, ch. 7; 4 Hen.
7, ch. 14, 24; 11 Hen. 7, ch. 1, 20; 1 Hen. 8, ch. 8; 21 Hen.
8, ch. 4, 13, 15, 19; 32 Hen. 8, ch. 9, 32, 36; 34 & 35 Hen. 8,
ch. 5,40, 42; 11 & 12 W. & M., ch. 4; 3 and 4 Anne, ch. 6;
4 Stat. at Large, 110,137,217,220,420; 6 1b. 64; Hot's Laws
of N: Y., p. 85, § 1; Ibid., p. 258, § 4; 1 Rev. Stat. 507; 2 Rev.
Stat. 317,§ 1; 9 Cow. 564; 2 Cow. 497; 3 Paige, 245; 1 Rev.
Laws of 1813, p. 363; 1 Rev. Laws, 747, §§ 23, 24, 25.
3. The word "seized" in these acts is not to be taken singly,
but in conjunction with that of which the seizin is required,
i.e. the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, i. e. the res or subject. Co. Litt. 14 b, 15 a, 17 a, 152 b; 3 Tomlyn's Diet. 446,
Seizin; 2 Bouvier's Dict. 494, Seizin; 14 Joh~ns. 407; 4
Dane's Abr. 664, § 5; Jackson v. Strang, 1 Hall, 32; Litt.
§§ 541, 549, 235, 233; Of a Rent, Litt. 565; Co. Litt. 315 a; 5
Barn. & Cresw. 308; Bevil's case, 4 Coke, 9; Form of Plead.
ing,'Litt. 10; 2 BI..209.
4. The word "seized" is not here used in that secondary
sense in which it serves to describe the condition of a remainderman or reversioner in respect to his estate, when such estate, not
discontinued by any act or neglect of the freeholder having the
precedent estate, i5 perfect and unharmed, and simply awaits
the determination of the precedent estate to vest in posses.
sion. Even in that case it is never said that the remainderman or reversioner is seized of the lands, &c. But it is frequently said that he is seized of the rimainder, or of his estate.
Co. Lilt. "347 b; 1 Burr. 107, 109; 4 T. R. 744; Litt. 4517

310

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

470, 673; 2 Bl. 357; Doe v. Cooper, 2 Barn. & Adolph. 283;
Davis v. Gatacre, 5 Bingh. N. C. 609; 8 East, 566; Roscoe on
Real Actions, 51-290; Stat. Champerty, 2 Rev. Stat. 691,
§ 6; Stat. Trespass, 1 Rev. Laws, 527, § 32; 1 Rev. Stat. 760,

§ 8.
. 6. It is an error to say "seizin of land" should not be
pleaded. On the contrary, seizin of lands is always pleaded
where it, exists. In replevin, and many other cases, "in fee,"
or "in fee tail," or "for life," according to the fact, is added,
because, in addition to seizin, the title is required to be pleaded.
No instance can be found of -an averment, that a party was
"9seized of land in remainder."
6. It is an error to suppose that seized "in fee," or "in his
demesne as of fee," is used indifferently or confusedly in pleading the seizin of a remainder-man. 2 Denio, 23. The first
form is proper when the remainder-man is not the freeholder
(the prior estate being for life); the second form is proper when
the remainder-man is the freeholder .(the prior estate being for
years only). And so are all the cases and precedents. Corn.
Dig. Pleader,c. 35; 6 Jacob's Dict. 41; Tomlyn's Dict. 41, Seizin; Greer e v. Cole, 2 Saunders, 235; 7 N. Hamp. 59.
VII. The intent of the legislature was to seize upon the
entail the instant there was in being an owner having a right
by the will or settlement to acquire an absolute fee simple, and,
dispensing with the formal and dilatory process of fine and
recovery, to vest such fee simple at once by act and operqtion
of law; thus, 1. The only recognized evil of entails was remedied.
2. No violent or sudden change, overturning the lawful intent
of the devisor or donor, was effected.
3. The consisteicy and harmony of the law was preserved.
VIII. Unless this is the construction, these statutes would
be incongruous in their action, and would work injustice.
1. A seizin of the lands, &c., in fee simple absolute, would
necessarily annihilate the precedent freehold. 2 BI. Com.
104, 105.
2. There are commonly, in settlements in tail, ten or more
successive limitations in tail. In each limitation the remainder is vested, and the remainder-man is seized of the'remainder
or estate the instant he comes into being. Fearne on Remainders, 217 to 221; Wiles, 338. And consequently, if a seizin
of the estate, i. e. the vested remainder, be sufficient, each of
these remainders is, at the same instant, turned into a fee
simple absolute, and made to destroy all the others.
3. This incongruity would not be advantageously obviated,
if, by construction, a priority could- be given to the first vested

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

311

Van Rensselaer v. Koarney et al.

remainder; because it often happens that the remainders, posterior ia point of limitation, vest long before the prior remaindermen come into being. It was a common practice to settle to
the use of an infant grandson for life, remainder in fee tail to
his first and other sons successively, remainder in default, &e.,
to the use of settler's brother oruncle, remainder to the first and
other sons of such brother or uncle, in tail. Here the last remainder is almost sure to vest before the former.
IX. The construction contended for by the plaintiff involves
none of these incongruities, is according to the technical import of the words, the reason of the thing, and the construction
in analogous cases.
1. A seizin of lands in fee tail entitled the wife to dower
and the husband to courtesy; but seizin of a vested remainder
in fee tail or in fee simple had no such effect. 1 Barbour's
S. C. R. 506; Cornish on Remainders, 130; Watkins on Conveyancing, 44, 56; 2 Wooddeson's Lectures, 15, 17; Eldredge
v. Forrestal, 7 Mass. 253; Ace. 23 Pick. 84; 22 Pick. 284 ; In
re Cregier, I Barbour's Ch. R. 601; 4 Mason, 485; Dower
Act, 1 Rev. Laws, 56, § 1; 4 Dane's Abr. 658, 663, § 22.
2. An heir, to whom a dry remainder expectant upon an estate for life descended, might, at common law, plead riens per
discent to an action on his ancestor's bond debt. Fortrey v.
Fortrey, 2 Raithby's Vernon, 134.
3. 'The woras "where any lands, tenements, or hereditaments shall be nleld," in the statute of partitions, Were held not
to authorize a naked remainder-man or reversioner to be a
plaintiff. 1 Rev. Laws, 507, § 1; Clapp v. Bromagham, 9 Cow.
564; 3 Paige, 245; 2 Cow. 497.
4. The statute of wills gave the power of devising to every
person " having any estate in lands, tenements, or hereditaments." 1 Rev. Laws, 361.
5. The statute of executions subjects th levy and sale "all
and singular the lands, tenements, and real estate " of the debtor. I Rev. Laws, 500, § 1.
6. See also the English statute subjecting the estates tail of
bankrupts to their debts. 2 BI. Com. 261-286.
7. The argument founded on a supposed unity of design in
the first and third sections, in r~ference to the maxim Seisina
facit slipitem, is unsound; for that maxim related only to descent in fee simple, and never had any application to istates
tail. There the descent was performam doni. 5 Bl. Com. 231,
232,233; Chitty on Descents, 155; Co. Litt. 14 b, 15 b; Pigott
on Recoveries, 108; 4 Com. Dig., Estates, B. 7, 8; 15 Maine,
412; Ratcliffe's case, 3 Coke 41, 42.
8. The word "possessed" in the second section throws no,

SUPRkME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et a.

light upon the present question. It has no connection with
the object of the first section. It is a statute of repose, like
the statute of limitations; and it includes terms for years,
where no seizin could exist. Such statutes are always made
in favor of the actual possessor, and to cure defects of title, or a
want of seizin. 1 Rev. Laws of N. Car. 258, § 1; 2 Haywood,
142; Best on Presumption, § 76; 2 Halstead, 177; Wood's
Institute, book 2, ch. 1, p. 115; 2 Wooddeson's Lectures, 13,
178; 1 Hilliard's Abr., ch. 2, § 16, p. 24; Litt. 234; Co. Litt.
200 b, 17 a.
. X. Contemporaneous legislation in the State of New York
conforms to the construction contended for by the plaintiff.
1. The act of attainder (Holt's Laws of New York, p. 85,
A. D. 1779)' forfeits all the real estate of the delinquents.
2. Sect. 4 of the first act abolishing entails, not regnacted
in 1786, (Holt's Laws of New York, p. 258,) shows that the
legislature, in that act, attached a more extensive meaning
to the words "real estate," than to "lands, tenements, and
hereditaments." The distinction is also observed in section
sixth of the act of 1786. • 1 Rev. Laws, 53, § 6.
3. Fines and common recoveries were preserved, and regulated by statute (10th Sess., chap. 43), which shows that estates tail were not instantly and totally annihilat-4 by the acts
in question.
, a. They were invented and used to bar entails, and scarcely
ever, if at l used for any other purpose. Pigott on Recoveries, 20; 3 Tucker's Blackstone, 116,, note 11, p. 363, note 7.
b. When, in 1830, all estates tail, though not clethed with
seizin, were either converted or extinguished, fines - nd recoveries were very properly abolished. 1 Rev. Stat. 7F .2, §§ 3, 4;
2 Rev. Stat. 343, § 24.
Third Point. The plaiuitiff, upon the death. 0. his elder
brother without issue, in . Q1 3 , became the first remainder-man
in fee 'ail. And on the death of his father, in 1828, he became
seized 3u fee tail of the "lands, tenements, and hereditaments"
devised; which seizin the ststut of 1786 instantly converted
into a fee simple absolute.
Supposing, however, the e- -te was converted into a fee on
the birth of his eldest son, J( hn J. Van Rensselaer would not
take a fee until the death of "Jhat son, in 1813, when it would
become his by descent.
The appellant contends t -t the reversion would, upon his
,death, in 1828, de. cend to h four children, the appellant and
his brothers and si ter.
Fourth Point. The dee, from John 3. Van Rensselaer to
Daniel Penfield c( itained
warranty, nor afiy covenant, ex-

313

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et aL

cept one against encumbrances. A title subsequently acquired
by grantor does not enure to the benefit of grantee. Jackson

v. Winslow, 13 Cowen, 18; Pelletreau v. Jackson, 11 Wend.
116 (opinion to this precise effect delivered by Judge Nelson,
subsequently affirmed); Jackson v. Waldron, 13 Wend. 212;
Jackson v. Hubbell, 1 Cowen, 616; McCrackin v. Wright,
14 Johns. 194; Jackson v. Bradford, 4 Wend. 622; Jackgon v.
Peck, 4 Wend. 305; Dart v. Dart, 7 Cowen, 256; Jackson v.
Natsdorf, 11 Johns. 97, per Thompson, J.; Trill v. Eastman,
3 Metcalf, 124.
The deed to Daniel Penfield was executed in pursuance of
an agreement between the parties. In construing them, both
instruments are to be taken together to arrive at the meaning
of the parties. Beaumont v. Bramley, 1 Turn. & Russ. 52;
Proctor v. Pool, 4 Dev. 373; Crone v. Odell, 1 Ball & Beat.
489; Moore v. Jackson, 4 Wend..67; Atkinson v. Pillsworth,
1 Ridg. P. C. 461; Lansdown v. Lansdown, 2 Bligh, P. C. 60;
Strong v. Benedict, 5 Cowen,'210; Collins v. Masters, 2 Bailey, S. C. Law R. 145; Sumner v. Williams, 8 Mass. 214; Miller v.Heller, 7 Serg. & Rawle, 40; Foord v. Wilson, 8 Taunton, 543; Nivd. v. Marshallj 1 Brod. & Bingh. 319; Miller v.
Horton, 1 McClelland, 64 /; Johnson v. Hoffman, 9 Law, 273;
Hesse v. Albert, 3 Mann. & Ryl. 406; Davis v. Lyman, 6 Conn.
253; Allen v. Barish, 3 Hammond, 134.; Hurd v. Cushing,
7, Pick. 171; Adams v. Caddy, 13 Pick. 463; Ibid. 119; Knickerbocker v. Kilman, 9 Johns. 107.
Fifth Point Taken together, the'intent of the parties was
clearly to purchase and convey the title of John J. Van Rensselaer, and nothing more, to Daniel Penfield, and only to covenant against all encumbrances except the lensei and one mortgage, particularly mentioned in both instraments.
-

The points made by the counsel Ir the appellees were the
following..
L Under the will and codicil of John Van Rensselaer, there
was an estate tail male in remainder in the premises in question, (viz. in the rents reserved in fee on the sale of the Claverack lands, and in the lands unsold,) in John Van Rensselaer,
son of John J. Van Rensselaer, grandson of the testator, expectant upon the death of th* -said John J. Van Rensselaer,
which vested -when he, the said John:' Van Rensselaer, was
born. 1 Inst. 19, 20; Doe v. Perryn, 3 T. R.484; 2 Hill. Abr.
403; .Carver* v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 89, 90; Doe d. Barnes v.
Provoost, 4 Johns. 61.
II. The estate tail, so vested in remainder in the said 'irstborn son, was abolished by the statute of 1786, and turned ito'
'VOL. xx.
27

314

SUPREME

COURT.

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney. et al.

a fee simple, which thereby destroyed all the ulterior remainders; because, 1st. The object of the act was to abolish entails altogether,
and thereby to abolish primogeniture, which was peculiarly
protected by the statute de donis.
2d. If the abolition of entailments under said act should be
confined to cases of actual corporeal possession of the estate
tail in freehold, a large class of estate,, rights, and interests
would not be freed under it, but would be still subject to entailments, and to the law of primogeniture in its most rigid
form; viz. all expectancies and incorporeal hereditaments.
3d. The abolition of entailments might be follbwed either
with the return of the estate to the old qualified fee on which
the estate tail was engrafted, or with the conversion of the estate'into a fee simple. And the design of the act in stating
that the party seized of the entail should become seized of the
fee, was to explain the character of the abolition, viz. its conversion into a fee, and not to limit it so as to exclude expectancies and incorporeal hereditaments.
4th. The seizin designed in that clause of the act was such
as is sufficient to cast the descent in the particular case.
5th. A vested remainder in tail, acquired by devise (which
is a purchase), is descendible ; the owner thereof having such
a seizin as will make him the slirps or stock of descent. Ld.
Raym. 728; Jacob, tit. Purchase; Cro. Eliz. 431; 1 T. R. 404,
634; 2 Bl. Com. 241; Ratcliffe's case, 3 Rep. 42.
6th. The seizin, to cast the descent even of a fee, need not
be an actual corporeal'possession of the freehold; and to cast
a descent of an estate tail acquired by devise from the tenant
as the stock of descent, it is sufficient that such tenant is in
esse and the estate vested in him, eyen if it be an expectancy
Doe v. Hutton, 3 Bos. &
or an incorporeal hereditament.
Pull. 648 ; Cruise, tit. 29, ch. 4, §§ 15, 16, -17 ; Co. Litt. 52 b ;
3 Jac. Law. Diet. 92; Dyer, 141 ; 1 Rev. Statutes, 751, § 5;
1 Rev. Laws, 527; § 33; 2 Chit. Pl. 568, Springfield ed. 1833;
3 Chit. P1. 1331; Com. Dig., Pleader,c. 35, 6; Jac. Law Dict.,
tit. Seizin; also tit. Remainderand Reversion; Throtsby v. Adarns, Plowd. 191, 921; Wade v. Bache, 1 Saund. 149; Alton
Wood's case, 1 Rep. 27 b; Theobald v. Tindal, 3 Went. Pl.
502,503; Clare v. Brooke, 2 Plow. 443 ; Hearne's Pleader, 837;
Modern Entries, 201; Leyman v. Abeel, 16 Johns. 31; Jackson
v. Hendricks, 3 Johns. Cas. 214; Bates v. Schroeder, 13 Johns.
260 ; Jackson v. Hilton, 16 Johns. 96; Doe v. Provost, 4 Johns.
61; Burnet. Denniston, 5 Johns. Ch. 35; 2 Johns. 288; Vanderheyden v. Crandall, 2 Denio, 9; Van Rensselaer v. Poucher,
5 Denio, 35, affirmed by the Court of Appeals) New York, MSS.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

315

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

7th. A remainder in tail, which may be inherited or holden,
is a tenement or hereditament, and is embraced within the language of the first section 'of the act of 1786. Cruise, tit. 2, ch.

1, § S.

1Il. John J. Van Rensselaer, upon the death of the testator,
became seized of a freehold estate for life in the premises in
question, as well in the rents as in the lands not demised ; and,
upon the birth of his first-born son, had an expectancy in fee, as
presumptive heir of his said first-born son.
IV. John J. Van Rensselaer, being seized of and entitled to
the said premises, did on the 4th of March, 1794, in and by
articles of agreement, for a full pecuniary consideration, covenant with Daniel Penfield to convey to him the said premises
in fee simple, with the full and absolute enjoyment thereof,
free from all encumbrances and charges, other than leases of
himself and ancestors.
V. John J. Van Rensselaer, being so seized, did on the 31st
of December, 1794, and the 1st of January, 1795, by lease and
release, for a full pecuniary consideration, sell and convey the
said lands to the said Daniel Penfield in fee simple, habendum
to the said Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assigns for ever, as
fully as he, the said John J. Van Rensselaer, then enjoyed, or
theretofore had enjoyed the same; that is to say, whether the
ownership embraced the land itself in possession or reversion.
or an incorporeal right ifi the land, such as rent reserved.
VI. The first-born son of John J, Van Rensselaer having
been at his birth vested with an estate in fee simple in expectancy in said rents and lands not leased in virtue of the devise
and the act of 1786, upon his death without issue, said rents
and lands descended from him in fee to his father. N. Y. Stat.
VII. John Watts, as the grantee of Daniel Penfield, with
covenants for the title in fee, being at the time of the death of
the first-born son seized in his demesne of a freehold life estate, under and by virtue of the aforesaid conveyance by lease
and release from John J. Van Rensselaer, the estate in fee
simple in the premises so descended to the said John J. Van
Rensselaer enured to the 'benefit of the said John Watts, and
by his will subsequently vested in his devisees. 2 Hill. Abr.
401 ; Sweet v. Green, 1 Paige, 473,476: Stow v Wise, 7 Cow.
214; Astor's case, 4 Peters, 85.
VIII. John J. Van Rensselaer and his heirs at law, oi whom
the plaintiff is one, by his aforesaid conveyance to Daniel Penfield were and are estopped in law from claiming any right
and interest in the premises.
1. The covenant in the deed of 1795 amounts to a stipulation and guaranty, that the grantee should quietly enjoy the

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

entire fee in the property conveyed, viz. in the land, where he
owned the land itself, and in the incorporeal hereditaments,
viz. the rents and reversions, where the lands had beep leased.
2. The description in the habendum clause of said lease was
not intended to qualify or affect the quantity of estate, but the
subject-matter, and to confine and apply it as well to rents and
reversionary interests, where there had been leases, as to lands
not having been leased. 2 Hill. Abr. 350, and references.
3. 'The articles of agreement show a fee was intended, and not
such an interest as he might chance to have. 2 Hill. Abr. 341;
2 Atk. 645; 6 Har. &Johns. 460; Jones v. Gardner, 10 Johns. 266.
4. The covenants in said deed, so construed, not only harmonize with the said description in the habendurn clause, as
above explained, but also with the intent manifested in the
said articles of agreement, and are thus rendered operative.
2 Bl. 107, 108; Jones v. Gardner, 10 Johns. 266.
5. The covenant in the deed, being in fee between the
parties and their heirs, that the land is free from encumbrances,
except leases, &c., specified, is broken, if there be any other outstanding encumbrances; and an estate in expectancy oustanding is an encumbrance upon the land and the seizin thereof.
Prescot v. Freeman, 4 Mass. 627; 14 Viner's Abr. 352, tit.
Encumbrance, A.; Sngden, 527, § 9, IT.; Jacrsbn v. Parker, 9
Cow. 86; Lovell v. Luttrel, Savile, 74.
6. The said John J. Van Rensselaer, by the whole context of the said deed and the said articles of agreement taken
in'parimateria, held himself out to the purchaser as a fee simple, owner, and having at the time an expectancy in fee as presumptive her, is estopped from claiming the title which efterwardr d(escends upon him as such heir. Mason v. Muncaster,
9 Wheat. 445; Jackson v. Bull, 1 Johns. Cas. 81; Jackson
v. Murray, 12 Johns. 201; Fisher v. Newland, 21 Wend. 94;
Jackson v. Stevens, 13 Johos. 319; Noel v. Barclay, 3 Simnons; Fairbanks v. Williamson, 7 Greenleaf, 97; Helps v.
Hereford, 2 Barn. & Ald. 242; Rees v. Lloyd, Wightw. 123;
McWilliams v. Nasby, 2 Serg. & Rawle, 512; Goodtitle v.
Morse, 3 T. R. 365; Carver v. Jackson, 4 Pet. 89, 90; Bensly
v. Burdon, 2 Sim. & Stu. 519; 1 Rev. Laws N. Y., p. 74, § 5;
1-GreenleaPs Ev. §§ 22. 24, 207, 210; 8 Wend. 483; 4 Wend.
619; 1 Rev. Stat. N. 1. p. 739, §§ 143, 145.
. IY. Assuming that John J. Van Rensselaer, the granason,
took an estate tail under the will, the same was, by the rule in
Shelly's case, at once, upon the death of the testator, turned
into a fee by the act of 1786, and the fee passed directly by his
deed to Penfield.
X. Where there is any doibt or difficulty, the construction

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

317

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

should be favorable to the grantee.
Johns. 391.

Jackson v. Gardner, 8

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is ar appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.
John Van Rensselaer, being seized in fee of a large tract of
land in the county of Columbia, State of New York, made
and published his last will and testament on the 25th of May,
1782, by which he devised the same to John J. Van Rensselaer, his grandson, for and during his natural life; and from
and after his decease, to the first son of the body of the said
John J. lawfully begotten, and to the heirs male of his body;
and, in default of such issue, then to the'second, third, and
every other son of the said John J., successively, and, in remainder, the one after the other, as they shall be in seniority
of birth, and the several and respective heirs male of the first,
second, third; and other son or sons; the eldest of such sons,
and the heirs male of his body, being always preferred.
The testator died in 1783, leaving John J., the grandson,
surviving, who entered into the possession, and enjoyment of
the estate. John J. had five children, John, the first-born,
whose birth was in 1791, Jeremiah, the present complainant,
Cornelius, and Glen, and a daughter, Catherine G.
By an act of the legislature of the State of New York, passed
23d February, 1786, it was enacted as follows: "That all estates tail shall be, and hereby are, abolished; and that, in all
cases where-any person or persons now is' or, if the act hereinafter mentioned and repealed [referring to an act passed 12th
Jply, 1782J had not been passed, would now'be, seized in fee
tail of any lands, tenements, or hereditamenits, such person
and persons shall be deemed to be seized of the same in fee
simple absolute; and further, that, in all cases where any person or persons would, if the said act and this present act had
not been passed, at any time hereafter become seized in fee
tail of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by virtue of any
devise,- gift, grant, or other conveyance heretofore made, or
hereafter to be made, or by any other means whatsoever, such
person or persons, instead of becoming seized thereof in fee
tail, shall be deemed and adjudged to become seized thereof in
fee simple absolute." 3 Rev. Stat. N. Y., 1st ed., App. 48; 1
Rev. Laws, 1813, p. 52.
As we have already stated, John, the first-born son of John
J., the grandson, was born in 1791, and he died without issue
in 1813, while the life estate was running, his father having
survived until 1828.
270

918

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et a].

On the birth of John, the first-born, his remainder as the first
tenant in fee tail, whi6h was before contingent, became vested
in interest, and he was thereafter seized of an estate tail in remainder, the vesting in possession being dependent upon the
terrination of the life estate.
The interest in the estate in remainder in which they vested
immediately on his birth carried with it a fixed right of future
enjoyment in possession, the instant the life estate terminated.
The question upon this branch of the case is, whether or not
the estate in fee tail in remainder thus acquired under the will
of John Van Rensselaer was converted into a fee simple absolute in John, the first-born son of John J., by the operation of
the act of 1786, abolishing entails.
Th6 act provides, that if any person shall thereafter "become
seized in fee tail of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by
virtue of any devise," &c., he shall be deemed to have becowe
seized in fee simple absolute,
It is admitted fhat John, the first-born, took a vested remainder in "fee tail under the will, the instant he came into being,
and that he was seized of an estate in remainder in the premises in question; but it is insisted that this is not the character
of the estate described in the statute, and which is there turned
into a fee simple; that, in order to bring the case within it, the
tenant in tail in remainder must be vested in possession, as
well as in interest, and without which he cannot be said to be
seized of the lands, tenements, or hereditaments; and, as John
died during the running of the lif estite, and therefore was
never seized in possession, the fee simple did not vest in him
under the statute; but was postponed to the next tenant in tail,
the second son, Jeremiah, who is the complainanf in the suit.
We do not propose to enter into ai examination of this
question, and which involves the true construction of the act
of 1786 ; as that act has been several times before the courts
of New York, and 'its construction settled by the highest authority in that State. (Vanderheyden v- Crandall, 2 Denio, 9;
S. C. on appeal, 1 Comstock, 491; Van Ransselaer v. Poucher,
5 Denio, 35.)
One-of the cases arose under the will before,, and involved
-the question as to the effect of the act upon the estate'of John,
the first-born tenant in tail, the same as here.
The construction of the act as given in these cases must
form the rule of decision upon the question, according to the
established course of proceeding in this court. (12 Wheat. 167,
168; 6 Peters, 291; 7 How. 81I; 8 How. 558, 559.)
In the case in the Court of Appeals in New York, DMr. Justice
Bronson, who delivered the judgment of the court, observed

DECEMBER' TERM, 1850.

319

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

that "it is true the statute speaks of a person seized of lands,
tenements, or hereditaments; and, in general, seizure of lands,
means actual possession of them. But, taken in their connection, the. words evidently mean seizin of an estate in lands.
The legislature began by speaking of estates tail; that was the
subject in hand; those estates were to be turned into estates of
a different tenure or quality; and the law-makers must be understood as speaking of the same thing in the latter part of the
clause'-which they had mentioned in the first."
He observes, "As I read the statute, the'provision is, that all
estates tail shall be abolished; and where any person now is
seized of an estate in fee tail on any lands, &c., such person
shall be deemed to be seized of the same (to wit, an estate in
the lands) in fee simple."
He further remarks, "The third section, which regulates descents, like the first, which abolishes entails, speaks of a person
.seized of lands, tenements, or hereditaments; and I think the
word Iseizin' was used in the same -sense in both sections.
Qne who has a vested remainder in fee simple expectant on
the determination of a present freehold estate has such a seizin
in law, when the estate was acquired by purchase, as will constitute him a stirps or stock of descent-under the third section.
And the person who has a vested remainder in fee tail, acquired in the same way, has such a' seizin in law as brings his
case within the operation of the first section. His remainder
in fee tail is turned into a remainder. in fee simple. The first
section brings the case under the inflhence of the third. And
the estate no longer follows the will of the donor, but is governed by the gdneral law of descents."
This being regarded as the true construction of the act of
1786, it follows that John, the first-born son of John J., took
an estate in fee simple absolute in remainder in the premises;
and that on his death, in .1813, it descended, according to the
law of New York, to his father, the life tenant; and the two
estates being thus united in him, he became vested with the
whole estate in fee simple absolute.
Th complainant, therefore, has failed to make out any estate
in the premises under the will of 'John Van Rensselaer. And
can claim title only through his father, John J., as one of the
heirs of his estate.
The tract of land in question embraces between thirty-three
and thirty-four thousand acres, and on the 1st of January,
1795, John J., the life tenant, sold and conveyed the same in
fee to Daniel Penfield, for the consideration of $ 44,550.
It is more than probable it was the opinion of the profession
in New York, at the date of this conveyance, that John J., the

320

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

grandson, took an estate in fee tail under the will of his graidfather, within the rule in Shelley's case, which the act of 1786
had turned into a fee simple absolute; and that the purchase
was made under the belief that he was competent to convey
the fee.
It is admitted, however, that this construction, which may
have been given at the time, was a mistaken one; and that he
took only an.estate for life, which terminated on his death, the
26th of September, 1828. At that time, we have seen, hewas
seized of the whole estate in fee in consequence of the death
of his eldest son, the first-born tenant in fee tail in 1813, and
which descended to his four children, three sons and a daughter, as tenants incommon, of whom the complainant is one, unless they are estopped from setting up the title by the deed of
the 1st of January, 1795, to Penfield, under whom the defendants hold.
On the part of the coinplainant, it is insisted that the conveyance is a deed of bargain and sale, and quitclaim, without
any covenants of title or warranty, and therefore could operate
to pass only the estate for life of which the grantor was then
seized; that it contains no appropriate words, when taken together, by force of which the subsequently acquired title enured
to the benefit of the grantee, or those claiming under him, or
that can estop the heirs from denying that he had any greater
estate than the tenancy for life; and that the deed purports on
its face to grant and convey simply the right, title, and interest
which the grantor possessed in the premises at the time, and
nothing more; that the. only covenant is a covenant against.
encumbrances, which affords indemnity against any liens or
charges upon. tlie estate conveyed, but which cdnnot -be regarded as warranting the title; and that this express covenant
takes away all implied ones.
This is the substance of the argument on the part of the
appellant.
By the covenant against encumbrances, the grantor, for himself and his heirs, covehants and agrees to and with the grantee
and -his heirs and assignees, that the tract of land conveyed,
excepting parts previously sold in fee by his ancestor, John
Van Rensselaer, and by himself; also, lands leased to Robert
Van Rensselaer, a lot of woodland to be conveyed by the
grantee to H. J. Van Rensselaer, a tract lying in the city of
Hudson, and a farm in the possession of Mrs. Moore,-with
the exception of these several. parcels, the grantor covenants
that the tract conveyed is freq and dlear, and shall be held and
enjoyed by the grantee, his hieirs akid assigns, according to the
true intent ard meaning of these presents, freely and clearly

DECEMBER TERM, 1850

321

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

acquitted and discharged of and from all encumbrances and
charges other than leases heretofore given by the said grantor
and his ancestors.
This cov enant, it will be seen, excepts out of the indemnity,
in express terms, parcels of land previously granted out of the
tract, in fee simple, and the title to which was outstanding in
third persons; and also the leases which had been given in
fee, or for the lives of the lessees, on which rents had been reserved, and which leases were to be transferred to the grantee
as rents and profits belonging to the estate, and which he was
to enjoy.
The draughtsman seems to have supposed that the outstanding. titles in fee in these several tracts, and also the leases in
fee and for li;es previously granted, and above referred to,
would have been embraced within the covenant, unless expressly excepted out of it, and that they might be regarded as
an encumbrance upon the estate which the deed purported to
convey, and consequently a breach of this covenant against encumbrances. This is the natural, if not the necessary, implication from the structure of the covenant; for, otherwise, the
exceptions are without meaning.
And, by parity of reasoning, the implication is.equally strong,
that the covenant embraced, and was intended to embrace, and
secure to the grantee and his heirs, the wh6le of the interest
and estate in the tract which the deed purports to convey, saving, and excepting only the parcels and portions of the title
thus enumerated and taken out of it; and hence, if any outstanding title existed not enumerated and excepted, there
would be grounds for alleging a breach of the covenant, and
for clainming that the grantee, his heirs or assigns, were entitled
to an action to recover ihidemnity for such diminutign of the
estate.
This result would seem almost necessorily to follow from the
nature and structure of the covenant, unless we regard it as
inserted mainly for the benefit of the grantor, to enable him to
make the exceptions. For it is but reasonable to presume that
the draughtsman, in making the exceptions, did not stop short
in the enumeration of the parts and portions of the estate and
title intended to be saved from its operation; or that he omitted any right or interest not intended to pass by the conveyance. And hence the reasonableness of the implication, that
every part of the estate and interest in the same that the deed
purported to convey was intended to be embraced, within the
covenant not included within the exception.
These several rights and interests had already been excepted
out of the granting clause in the deed, and hence the excep-

322

SUPREME. COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

tion in this part of the instrument was not necessary for this

purpose. The exception here related exclusively to the covenant of enjoyment of the premises free from all encumbrances;
andwas intended as a saving from its scope and obligation.
There is much force, therefore, in the argument, that this
covenant, from its peculiar phraseology and structure, was intended as something more than a simple covenant against
encumbrances and charges upon the estate; and that it was
intended by the parties as a covenant of the title which the
deed purported to convey, and if so, thi%of itself would operate upon the estate subsequently acquired by the grantor, so
that it would, as against him and all persons claiming under
him, enure to the benefit of the grantee, his heirs and assigns.
But independently of this view, and of any covenants of
title, in the technical sense of the term, in the deed of 1st January, 1795, we are of opinion that the complainant is estopped
from denying that John J. Van Rensselaer, the grantor, was
seized of an estate in fee simple at the date of that deed, the
grounds of which opinion we will now proceed to state.
The general principle is admitted, that a grantor, conveying
by deed of bargain and sale, by way, of release or quitclaim
of all his right and title to a tract of land, if made in good
faith, and without any fraudulent representations, is not responsible for the goodness of the title beyond the covenants in
his deed. (7 How. 159; 2 Sugden on Vendors, ch. 12, § 2, p.
421; 2 Kent's Comm. 473; 4 Ib. 471, note; 1 Cow. 616; 9
Cow. 1; 4 Wend. 622; 7 Conn. 256; 11 Wend. 110; S. C. 13
Wend. 78; 12 Pick. 78; 1 Rev. Stat. N. Y. 739, §§ 143, 145;
15 Pick. 23; .14 Johns. 193.)
A deed of this character purports to convey, and is understood to convey, nothing more than the interest or estate of
which the grantor is seized or possessed at the time; and does
not operate to pass or bind an interest not then in existence.
T!e bargain between the parties proceeds upon this view; and
the consideration is regulated in conformity with it. If otherwise, and the vendee has contracted for a particular estate, or
for an estate in fee, he must take the precaution to secure himself by the proper covenants of title.
But this'principle is applicable to a deed of bargain and sale
by release or quitclaim, in the strict and proper sense of that
species of conveyance. And therefore, if the deed bears on its
face evidence that the grantors intended to convey, and the
grantee expected to become invested with, an estate of a particular description or quality, and that the bargain had proceeded upon that footing between the parties, then, although it may
not contain any covenants of title in thd technical sense of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

323

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

term, still the legal operation and effect of the instrument will
be as binding upon the grantor and those claiming under him,
in respect to the estate thus described, as if a formal covenant
to that effect had been inserted; at least, so far as to estop
them from ever afterwards denying that he was seized of the
particular estate at the time of the conveyance.
The authorities are very full on -this subject. Goodtifle v,
Bailey, Cowp. 601; Bensley v. Burdon, 2 Sim. & Stu. 524; S. C.,
5 Russell, 330 ; 2 Barn. & Ad. 278, where this case is referred
to ; Doe ex dem. Marchant v. Ewington, 8 Scott, 210; Rees
v. Lloyd, Wightwick, 129; Bowman v. Taylor, 2 Ad. & Ellis,
278; Lainson v. Tremere, 1 Ib. 79 .; Stonev. Wise, 7 Conn. 214;
Peilrose v. Griffith, 5 Binney, 231; Denn v. Cornell, 3 Johns.
Cas. 174; 8 Cow. 586; Carver v. Jackson ex dem. Astor, 4
Peters, 1; 7 Greenl. 96; 4 Kent's Com. 271, note; 1 Smith's
Leading Cases, p. 450, note to the Duchess of Kingston's case.
In the case of Bensley v. Burdon, the party granting the estate recited that' he was entitled to a remainder in fee, expectant upon the determination of the life estate of his father, in
certain premises therein described. In point of fact, he had no
interest in the premises at the time; but became vested with
an estate for life in a part of them some two years afterwards,
under the will of his father, and soon after conveyed this interest to the defendant.
The Vice-Chancellor held, that the grantor having averred in
the deed that he was seized of a remainder in fee, expectant on
the death of his father, he was estopped from setting up, that,
at the time of the grant, he was not duly seized of the estate
according to the averment; that the estoppel run with the land,
and bound not only the grantor, but all claiming under him;
and that the defendant was, therefore, equally estopped from
denying the title.
There was an appeal in this case to the Lord Chancellor,
and his decision is referred to as reported in 5 Russell, 330;
but there is an error in the reference, and I have not been able
to find it.
But in Right ex dem. Jefferys v. Bucknell (2 Barn. & Ad. 281),
Lord Tenterden refers to the case, and says that the judgment
of the Vice-Chancellor was affirmed" and that the Chancellor
put his decision on the ground, that the recital of the interest
of the grantor in the premises was an averment of a particular
fact, by which the defendant was concluded.
And in the case of Doe ex dem. Marchant v. Ewington,
which was an action of ejectment to recover possession of a
set of chambers in Lincoln's In, it appeared that one Boileau,
having been admitted by the Benchers of the society, the owners

324

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

.of the feet to the chambers for life, had granted the same to the
lessor of the plaintiff in trust to secure an annuity, reciting in
the deed that he was well entitled to an estate for life in the
chambers.
Afterwards Boileau, by an arrangement with the defendant,
surrendered to him the possession of the chambers, who continued to occupy them at the time of the commencement of the
suit, which was brought in consequence of the annuity b6ing
in arrear.
By the regulations of the society, it appeared that, in order
to surrender possession,.the person last admitted must present
,a petition to the Masters of the Bench for permission to surrender, first paying all his arrear of dues; and the person who is
to succeed must also present a petition to be admitted; and
thereupon, if consent be given, then an order is entered that
the person admitted may have leave to surrender, and the person who is to succeed may be admitted on paying the fine and
fees. And that it is in the discretion of the masters, for the
* time being, to make such orders for the admission to or exclusion from chambers in the Inn as they may think fit.
The lessor of the plaintiff sought to recover on the ground
that Boileau was estopped from denying that he was seized of
an estate for life in the chambers by the recital in his conveyance; and that the defendant coming in under him was equally estopped.
Tindall, C. J., in giving judgment, observed, that the case had
very properly been arguedion the ground of estoppel; for if it
were a question of title, the lessor of the plaintiff would clearly
be out of court. That he must claim under the estoppel
created by the recital in the deed of conveyance. He admitted that Boileau was bound by the recital; and the defendant
also, if in privity of estate; that, according to the old authorities, he must either come in the per or the post, that is, he must
claim from, through, or under the party. That the defendant
did not claim under Boileau, but under the trustees of the society of Lincoln's Inn, and therefore was not estopped from
denying the title.
Coltman, J. observed that, as between Boileau and the lessor
of the plaintiff, the former might be estopped from denying that
he had the estate he represented by his deed; but that, to enable the plaintiff to succeed, it was necessary for him to show
that the defendant claimed through or under Boileau, so that
the estoppel should affect him.
In the case of Bowman v. Taylor, 'Lord Denman, C. J. observed, that, "as to the doctrine laid down in Co. Litt. 352 b,
that a recital dotlh not conclude, because it is no direct affirma-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

826

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

tion, the authority of Lord Coke is a very great one; but still,
if a party has by his deed recited a specific fact, though introduced by a 9whereas,' it seems to me impossible to say that
he shall not be bound by his own assertion so made under
seal."
And Tiiunton, J. remarked, in the same case, that the law of
estoppel is not so unjust or absurd as it has been too much the
custom to represent. The principle is, that, where a man has
entered into a solemn engagement by deed under his hand and
seal as to certain facts, he shall not be permitted to deny anmatter which he has so asserted.
In the case of Fairbanks v. Williamson, there was no covenant of title in the deed, which was in fee; 'but the grantor
covenanted that neither himself, his heirs, or assigns would
ever make any claim to the premises. The court held that
this operated as an estoppel, not only upon him, but upon all
claiming under him, from setting up an after-acquired title
to the land against the grantee or those in privity with
him.
In Jackson ex dem. Munroe v. Parkhurst et al. (9 Wend.
209), the recovery was placed altogether on the ground of estoppel, the defendant holding under the grantor of the deed in
which the title was recited. And in Right ex dem. Jefferys v.
"Bucknell, where the recital in the deed was, that the grantor
was legally or equitablj entitled to an estate in fee in the premises, the court refused to bind the party coming in under him
as a purchaser for a valuable consideration of the after-acquired
title, solly on the ground that there was no certain and precise estate set forth in the recital.
The principle deducible from these authorities seems to be,
that, whatever may be the form or nature of the conveyance
used to pass real property, if the grantor sets forth on the face
of the instrument, by way of recital or averment, that he is
seized or possessed of a particiilar estate in the premises, and
,,which estate the deed purports to convey; or, what is the
same thing, if the seizin or possession of a particular estate is
affirmed in the deed, either in express terms or by necessary
implication, the grantor and all persons in privity with him
shall be estopped from ever afterwards denying that he was so
seized and possessed at the time he made the conveyance.
The estoppel works upon the estate, and binds an after-aequired title as bLtween parties and privies.
The reason is, that the estate thus affirmed to be in the
party at the time of the conveyance must necessarily have influenced the grantee in making the purchase, and hence the
grantor and those in privity with him, in gocd faith and fair
28
VOL. Xi.

326

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

dealing, should be for ever thereafter precluded from gainsay.
ing it.
The doctrine is founded, when properly applied, upon the
highest principles of m6rality, and recommends itsell to the
common sense and justice of every one. And although it
debars the truth in the particular case, and therefore is not
unfrequently characterized as odious, and not to be favored,
still it should be remembered that it debars it only in the case
where its utterance woul4 convict the party of a previous falsehood; Would be the denial of a previous affirmation upon the
faith of which persons had dealt, and pledged their credit or
expended their money.
It is a doctrine, therefore, when properLy understood and
applied, that concludes the truth in order to prevent fraud and
falsehood, and imposes silence on a party only when in conscience and honesty he should not be allowed to speak.
Now, applying this doctrine to the case in hand, our next
inquiry will be, whether or not John J. Van Rensselaer affirmed,
in his deed of January 1, 1795, to Penfield, that he was seized
of an estate in fee in the prerpises, and whether the deed purports on its face to convey an estate of that description.
As to the question involved in the latter branch of the inquiry, we need only refer to the words of the grant to determine it. The deed is of all the rights title, and intenest of the
grantor in the tract of land to Penfield, his heirs and assigns
for ever, terms that would have passed an estate in fee, if John
J. had been seized of it at the time of the conveyance.
The most important question arises upon the other branch
of the inquiry. Has the grantor affirmed on the face of the
deed that he was seized of this particular estate in the premises at the time he made the grant?
The argument. on the part of the complainant is, that, although the granting words of the deed are broad and compreheisive, - such as, "have granted, bargained, sold, aliened,
enfeoffed, assured, released, and confirmed, and by these presents do grant, bargain, sell, alien, enfeoff, assure, release, and
confirm unto the said Daniel Penfield," "and to his heirs and
assigns for ever,'all and singular the aforesaid tract of land,"
&c., "and also all leases of and concerning any part or parts
of the said granted premises; and also all the estate, right,
title, interest, property, possession, claim, and demand of them,
the said John J. Van Rensselaer and Catherine, his wife, in
the same,"- yet the grant is qualified by the Iabendum clause,
- "to have and to hold the said tract of land so desQribed,
and so butted .and bounded as above recited, &c., unto the
said Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assigns, to the only proper

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

327

Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

use and behoof of the said Daniel Penfield, his heirs and assigns for ever, in as full and ample a manner as the said John
J.Van Rensselaer now hath and enjoyeth the same, and in
as full and ample a manner as the same hath heretofore been
had and enjoyed by the said John J.Van Rensselaer, or lawfully might, if these presents were not made, be had, used,
occupied, or enjoyed by him, his heirs or assigns."
This latter clause, it is supposed, restricts and qualifies the
general words in the grant, and confines the effect and operation of the deed to the conveyance of such an estate as the
grantor was seized and possessed of at the time; and, as this
was an estate for life with remainder over, it operated, and
was intended to operate, to convey only this estate.
Were there nothing else in the case, there might be muich
difficulty in furnishing a satisfactory answer to this view, although no one, we think, can read the deed without being
strongly impressed with the conviction, that both parties supposed they were dealing with the fee, and that the bargain
was made upon that understanding.
But, in order fully to comprehend and interpret this qualifying clause in the habendun, it is material to look into the
nature and condition of the title at the time, and the mode of
enjoying the estate, and also into the evidences of the title
which were turned over to the purchaser at the execution of
the contract, all of which appear in the deed and articles of
agreement therein recited and referred to.
As we have already said, in another branch of the case, a
part of the tract had been previously conveyed in fee, and
amongst others by the grantor himself, and which is excepted
from the grant. Much the larger part was at the time in the
occupation of tenants under leases in fee, or for the lives of
the lessees, with rents reserved, made, amongst others, also by
John J., which leases were transferred to Penfield as muniments
of thd title. Tlie articles of agreement provided for the transfer of these leases,.and the deed itself in terms embraces them
in the granting clause.
In the 'articles of agreement, also, Penfield is required to
covenant that he will execute leases, according to the terms
and conditions upon which they had been usually granted, of
certain portions of the tract to several persons therein named;
and which leases, as we have seen, according to the custom of
granting, were to be made in fee, or for the lives of the lessees.
The deed also contains the recital of a mortgage in fee upon
the estate, given by John J., the 11th August, 1791, to Schuyler,
for securing the payment of $ 7,750, which Penfield was to
discharge out of the purchase-money.

328

SUPREME COURT.
Van Rensselaer v. Kearney et al.

Now all these instruments affecting the title, and showing
the tenure and conditions by and under which the estate was
held and enjoyed; are. particularly referred to in the articles, and
in the deed of conveyance, and are thus virtually incorporated
into the same; and were so for the purpose of describing with
greater precision the nature and condition. of the title, and of
the rights and interests of the grantor in the tract conveyed.
And looking at them, and at the. right and title therein asserted and affirmed, aud upon the faith of which the purchase
was made and the deed taken, we shall be enabled to comprehend and give proper application to the words in the habendum; namely, that the grantee, his heirs and assigns, shall hold
in as full and ample a manner as the same is possessed, occupied, and enjoyed by the grantor, or as might be possessed and
enjoyed by him, his heirs and assigns, if these presents had not
been made.
Admit that the clause refers to the title and estate possessed
by the grantor, as well as to the premises described, what title
and estate? Manifestly that which is evidenced by the muniments of title before referred-to, and particularly identified and
described in the granting clause of the deed, a title evidenced
by leses in fee with rent'reserved, made by John J. and his
ancestors, and which passed to the grantee as securing the
rents and profits issuing out of and belonging to the .estate
conveyed.
These leases characterize the title to the tract sold, and afford'
evidence that cannot be mistaken of the estate intended to be
conveyed, and it was the enjoyment of this estate and interest
in -the premises, in the. manner and way in which the grantor
had used, occupied, and enjoyed the same, to which the habezzdum clause refers. This affords a full explanation of its object
and meaning.
The reference to these leases, and virtual incorporation of
them into the deed, and transfdr as muniments of the title,
especially those made by John J. himself, together with the
mortgage in fee to Schuyler which was to be raised out of the
purchase-money, and the covenants required of Penfield to
grant similar leases to certain persons named, all clearly import,
on the face of the instrument, an assertion, or affirmation on
the part of the grantor, that he was seized of a title that enabled him to make the leases and mortgage, and that would
also enable Penfield to grant similar leases, namely, leases in.
fee; and which brings the case directly within the principle of
law already stated, that estops him, and those coming in under
him, from denying that he was so seized.
The estoppel works upon the estate, and passes with it, and,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

329

Weatherhead's Lessee v. Baskerville et al.

binds the title subsequently acquired by the death of his eldestson, the first-born tenant in tail.
We are satisfied, therefore, after the fullest consideration of
the case, that the decree of the court below is right, and should
be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New-York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JOHN DEN, LESSEE OF POLLY WEATHERHEAD, PLAINTIFF IN-ERROR, V.
JOHN BASKERVILLE, JOHN WHITE, JOHN PARKER, PETER HAYNES,
WILLIAM STEWART, NANCY STEWART, NELSON B. TURNER, JACOB GALLASPIE, PETER BRYSON, BENAxIN PARRISH, WILLIAM
JOHNSON, REUBEN D. BROWN, THOMAS SAUNDERS, RICHARD NVINN,
THO,%rAs STONE, BEVERLY HEAD, DAviD CHENAULT, IV. W. WEATHERHEAD, JOHN WEATHERHEAD, GEORGE T. BROWN, B. F. SHARP,
AND FRANCIS ROGAN.
expressions: "my estate to be equally divided
Where a will contained the following
"
amongstmy children," and also, mylands and sla'es to be equally divided amongst
my children"; and had in it also the following clause: " to each of my daughters a
small tract of land," - the last clause must be rejected as void and inoperative, an4
cannot be used for the purpose of showing such au ambiguity as would let in extrinsic testimony to explain the intentions of the testator.
When such testimony is introduced, it must be of facts unconnected with any general
declaration or wishes expressed by a testator for the disposition of his property.
In the present case, the testimony offered purported to express those wishes, and
was therefore inadmissible.
Where the Circuit Court instructed the jury that they might consider the acts of one
of the daughters and her husband, in acquiescing in a partition, and in receiving
"a small tract of land," as a recognition of the true construction of the will to be,
that the daughters were not entitled to an equal share, the acts of partition being
accompanied by long adverse possession, say thirty or forty years, this instruction
was erroneous.' The daughter was a minor when she married, and continued covert
until within a short time before .she brought the suit. No presumption, arising
from her acts, could therefore be made against her.
And a recognition by her, when freed from coverture, of a sale which she had made
in conjunction with her husband, amounted to no more than a ratification of that
particular sale.
So, also, an instruction was erroneous, that the jury might presume from the evidence
that there had been a legal partition of the testator's laud in respect to his daughters,
by order of a court, when the executor assigned to them certain parts of it. By
.the laws of the State where the lands were, such a partition was a judicial act, and
became a record.

