292

SUPREME COURT.
Boyd v. Scott et al.

when no other adequate remedy exists. Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch, 62-137; Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 525.
But, independent of this last consideration, which as a remedy may not come within the usual meaning of another remedy, the grounds for the petition are not sufficient, and the
judgment below, dismissing it, must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record fror the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration where.
of, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

Ex

PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF EARLY BOYD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
V. WILLIAM SCOTT AND WILLIAM GREENE. - In Errorto the Dis.

trict Court of the United Statesfor the Northern District of Alabama.
A motion on the part of the defendants in error, for a rule upon the plaintiff in error
to file a copy of the record, overruled.

MR. CRITTENDEN, of counsel for the defendants in error, having filed the following certificate, viz.: " The United States of America, Northern District of Alabama.
"In the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Alabama, at Huntsville.
"I, Benjamin T. Moore, Clerk of*the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, at Huntsville, do hereby certify, that at the term of the District Court
aforesaid, begun and held at the court-house in the town of
Huntsville, in said district, on the fourth Monday in November, A. D. 1850, in a certain cause therein pending in said
court, wherein Early Boyd was plaintiff, and William Scott
and William Greene were defendants, judgment was rendered
therein in favor of said defendants against said plaintiff, for
dollars, and
the costs of suit, amounting to the sum of
that from the said judgment the said Early Boyd, on the 29th
day of November, A. D. 1850, prayed and obtained a writ of
error to the then next term of the Supreme Court of the Unit-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

293

Florida v. Georgia.

ed States, and on the d .y last aforesaid antered into bond in
the penalty of one thouand dollars with Silas Parsons his
security, paynble to the said William Scott and William
Greene, cbnditioned that, if the said Early Boyd should prose.
cute the said writ of error to effect, and should also pay and
satisfy the judgment which shall be rendered in said cause by
the Supreme Court of the United States, then the said obligation should be void, else remain in full force and virtue.
"In testimony whereof, I hereto subscribe my name and
affix the seal of the said District Court, at office, in the town
of Huntsville, in the District aforesaid, this the 24th day of
January, A. D. 1851, and of the independence of the United
States of America the seventyfifth.
"B. T. Moonn, Clerk."
moved the court for a rule on the plaintiff in error, to file the
record on or before the
day of
, and that on failure
the ease be dismissed. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and the same
is hereby, overruled.
Per Mn Cnrnr JusTira. T~aimy.

Tim STATE or FLorDA, COMnPLAINANT, t. T=n STATE or GEonGIA.
Bill in Chancery.
A bill by the State of Florida against the State of Georgia ordered to be filed, anc
process of subpoana dhected to be issued against the State of Georgia.

MNssRs. JOHNsoN and WESTCOTT, solicitors for the complainant, moved the court for leave to file the bill of complaint in
the cause and for a writ of subpoena, or such process as to
the court may seem proper. Whereupon this court, not being
now here sufficiently advised of and concerning what order to
render in the premises, took time to consider.
On consideration of the motion made in this case yesterday,
by the solicitors for the complainant, it is now here ordered
by the court that this bill of complaint be filedf and that process of subpcsna be, and the same. is hereby, awarded, as
prayed for by the complainant, and that said process issue
against "The State of Georgia."

25*

