154

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Morgan et aL

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THOMAS GIBBES MORGAN, THOMAS W. CHINN, MICAjAH COURTNEY, JOSIAH BARKER,
AND THE HEIRS AND LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES OF JOHN DAVENPORT,
DECEASED.
Althonh a bill of exceptions is imperfectly drawn, yet if this court can ascertain the
substance of the facts, and the questions on which the judge instructed the jury
are apparent, it will proceed to decide the case.
Where a collector received treasury-notes in payment for duties, which were cancelled
by him, but afterwards stolen or lost, altered, and then received by him again in
payment for other duties, he is responsible to the government for the amount
thereof.
So also he is responsible, to a certain extent, where treasury-notes were received by
him in payment for duties, cancelled, but lost or purloined (without his knowledge
or consent) before being placed in the post-office to be returned to the Department.
And this is so whether the notes be considered as money or only evidences of debt
by the Treasury Department.
But the extent, above mentioned, to which his responsibility goes is to be measured
by a jury, who are to form their judgment from the danger of the notes getting
into circulation again, the delay and inconvenience in obtaining the proper vouchers
to settle accounts,.the want of evidence at the Department that the notes had been
redeemed, or from any other direct consequence of the breach of the collector's
bond.

THIS case was 'brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
. It was a suit brought upon a collector's bond against Thomas
Gibbes Morgan, the principal, and Thomas W. Chinn, Micajah
Courtney, Josiah Barker, and John Davenport, sureties. The
bond was executed on the 14th of December, 1841, and recited
that Morgan had beeh appointed collector of the customs for
the district of Mississippi, in the State of Louisiana, on the
25th of June, 1841. It was in the usual form, with a.condition
that Morgan cchas truly and faithfully executed and discharged,
and shall continue truly and faithfully to execute and discharge,
all the duties of the-said office." The penalty was $ 120,000.
The suit was brought on the 15th of December, 1843, and
the breach is thus set out in the petition:"Now these petitioners, by their attorney aforesaid, aver and
expressly charge that the condition of said bond or writing obligatory has been broken in thig, to -wit, that the said Thomas
Gibbes Morgan had not truly and faithfully executed and discharged, nor did said Thomas Gibbes Morgan continue truly
and faithfully to execute and discharge, all, the duties of the
saild office according to law. That the- said Thomas Gibbes
Morgan did, both before and after the time of the signing of
said bond, and while he was colle~tor as aforesaid, receive as
said colle3tor large Sums of money belonging to petitioners,
which he has in part Only paid to petitioners, leaving the

DECEMBER ThRM, 1850.

155

The United States v. Morgan et al.

balance qf $ 274,775.17, which was received by said Morgan
as said collector, and while he'was said collector, and which
said balance said Morgan has refused to pay to petitioners, and
yet retains the same in his possession, tlfough often directed
and requested by petitioners to pay the same to them. That
said Morgan has not, since the first quarter of the year 1843,
transmitted the returns of his accounts as said collector for
settlement to the proper officer, as he is required by law to do,
and for that reason petitioners are unable to specify-the items
of said balance, but they reserve the right, by amended petition
or otherwise, of furnishing a detailed statement of said Morgan's account as said collector so soon as he shall transmit
his quarterly returns as aforesaid; by means whereof a right of
'action has acced to these petitioners to have and recover the
penalty of said bond or writing obligatory, which, though amicably requested, said obligors refuse to pay.
"That said petitioners also reserve the right of proceeding, by
amended petition or otherwise, against th? said Thomas Gibbes
Morgan for any other or greater sum than the penalty of said
bond herein sued for, even should the same exceed the said balance of $ 274,775.17, inasmuch as, from the omission and neglect of said Morgan to furnish said quarterly returns, petitioners are unable to finally adjust the accounts of said Morgan as
said collector."
The defendants answered with a general denial, as in a plea
of nil debet.
On the 27th of January, 1848, the cause came on for trial
in the Circuit Court, and continued during that day, the 28th,
and the 29th. The record stated the impanelling of the jury,
the opening of the case by the district attorney, the fact that
evidence was given on the part of the plaintiffs and on the
part of-the defendants. and the following erdict of the jury:
"Verdict in favor of the United States, viz.:
For the balance acknowledged, .
.
.
And commissions, .
..
.
Amounting to

..

.

.

.
.
.
" JOHN CASTELLANO,

$32,400.13
.8,169A4

$60,569.57
Foreman.

"_New Orleans, anvarn 29th,-1848-"
The verdict was recorded and judgment entered up on the
9th of February, 1848. But the record did not show, in any
part of it, what the evidence 'Was which -was given either on the
part of the plaintiffs or defendants. The following bills of exception refer to, but do not state-it.

156

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Morgan et al.

" And afterwards, to wit, on the 4th day of February, 1848,
the following bill of exceptions was filed by the United States
district attorney :
4 THE UNITED STATES v. THOmAS GIBBES MORGAN and others.
In the United States Circuit Court in and for the Fifth Circuit
and District of Louisiana.
"Be it remembered, that, at the December term of said court,
on, the trial of the above-named case, on this Saturday, the
29th day of January, in the year 1848, after the argument on
both sides had been closed, and before the jury had retired, the
attorney of the United States for the district
to wit:-aforesaid prayed
the court to charge the jury as follows,
" First. That T. G. 1Morgan, and the sureties on his official
bond, were liable in law for the sum of $ 99,915.27, an amount
of treasury-notes received by T. G. Morgan, collector, in payment of public dues, and lost by him, or stolen from him while
in his possession, after they had been marked ' cancelled,' and
before they were deposited in the post-office; for which purpose they had been put up in a bundle.
" And, on the day and date aforesaid, the attorney of the
United States aforesaid further prayed the court to charge the
jury,"Second. That the defendant, T. G. Morgan, and the sureties on his official bond, were liable in law for the sum
of $1,074.89, being the amount of two treasury-notes of five
hundred dollars each, and the interest thereon; which notes
were received in payment of public dues by T. G. Morgan,
collector, stolen from his office, altered, and afterwards again received by him.
" The court refused to give the above charges as required,
but charged the jury that, if they believed, from the evidence
before them, that the treasury-notes in controversy were received by the defendant in payment of r&enue, and that he
took receipt upon the back of them when received from the
persons paying them in, and cancelled them on the face of
each according to law, and had them put into a bundle in the
usual manner for transmitting them to the"Treasury Department, and gave orders to the person who had been in the habit
of delivering them at the post-office to deposit tlem there f&r
transmission; and they were lost or purloined without the
knowledge or consent of.defendant, he is inot answerable to
the plaintiff for them. And the court further charged the jury,
that if they ]believed from the evidence that the two treasurynotes, amounting to $ 1,074.89, were part of the treasurynotes so cancelled, and intended to have been forwarded to the
Treasury Department, but had been subsequently so altered

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

157

The United States v.. Morgan et al.

without the knowledge or consent of the defendant, so as to
make them appear to be genuine, and he afterwards received.
them in payment of duties believing them to be genuine, he'is
not responsible to the plaintiff for them, but is entitled to a
credit on the account of the plaintiff for that amount.
"Wherefore, the attorney of the United States aforesaid
tenders this his bill of exceptions to the said refusal, and prays
the same may be made a part of the record.
"THEo. H. MCCALEB, [L. s.]

U 8. Judge.
"And afterwards, to wit, on the 5th day of February, 1848
the following bill of exceptions, taken by the counsel of th(
defendants, was filed :" TnE UNITED STATES V. THo~rAs GIBBES MORGAN and others.
In the United States.Circuit Court, in and for the Fifth Circuit
and District of Louisiana.
"Be it remembered, that, at the December term of said court,
on the trial of the above-named case, on this Saturday, the
29th day of January, 'in the year 1849, after the defendants
had introduced evidence to show that the item charged by the
said T. G. Morgan in his account for tho second quarter of the
year 1842, for safe-keeping and disbursement of public moneys
from 12th July, 1842, to 26th July, 1843, being commission
thereon, amounting to the sum of $28,169.44, was reasonable
and just under the circumstances, and which said item had
been disallowed by the accounting officer of the Treasury Department; and after the argument on both sides had been,
closed, and before the jury had retired, the counsel for the defendants aforesaid requested and prayed the court to chargethe jury as follows: "That the defendant, T. G. Morgan, when acting as collector of the customs, not being under the law a disbursing officer,
and the payment of the drafts drawn on him by the Treasurer
of the United States not being in the course of his duties as
collector, he is entitled to 'a reasonable comptensation-for his
risk and trouble in keeping and disbursing the money.
"1The court refused to give the above charge as required, but
charged the jury that, under the law, the defendants were not
entitled to the credit and compensation by them claimed as
aforesaid.
"Wherefore the defendants, by their counsel, tender this their.
bill of exceptions to the said refusal, and pray that the samemay be made a part of the record.
vOL. XI.

14

"'THEo. H. MCCALEB, [L. S.]

U. . Judg-e.""

158

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Morgan et al.

The attorney for the United States sued out a -writ of erroi,
and brought the case up to this court
It was argued by Mr.Crittenden (Attorney-General), for the
plaintiffs in error, no counsel appearing for the defendants.

Mr. Crittenden contended that the court erred to the prejudice'of the United States in the instructions given, and also in
refusing to give .hose requested on their part, and that the defence allowed by the court below did not discharge, and ought
not to discharge, the collector and his sureties in this action on
his official bond, and referred to United States v. Prescott, 3
Howard, 578.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action on an official bond, given to secure the
faithful performance of duty by one of the defendants, as c llector of the port of New Orleans.
His appointment took place in June, 1841, and the bond was
dated in December of the same year, and the condition was
averred to have been broken in 1843 by not paying over large
sums ,of money collected for' the United States, and by not
making seasonable returns of his accounts.
The breaches were denied, and at the trial it would seem
that evidence was given in relation to them, and the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs for $ 60,569.57.
But something like $100,000 more appear to have been
claimed, which the jury, under the instructions given by the
court, disallowed, and-txceptions were thereupon filed to these
instructions.
The object and character of the exceptions are intelligible by
means of what is stated by the judge in connection with them,
though no preliminary evidence is set out, on which the points
of law arose.
This mode of drawing up a bill of exceptions is defective, as
the material facts or proofs on which the instructions rest should
be inserted before the instructions, in order that we may see.if
the points arise on which they are given, and tq which exception is taken. Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al., 4 Howard, 297,
298; Vasse v. Smith, 6 Cranch, 233, 234;. 3- Howard, 555,
656.
The treasury transcript in support of the suit, and the precise breach, and the instructions or circul~rs from' the Dbpartment as to the mode of cancelling and tr'ansmitting the notes
in the present case, should appear, so far as material, a'sv;ell as
the evidence how they were in fact cancelled, and what has
probably become of them since..'

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

159

The United States v. Morgan et al.

But considering that we can, by way of inference from the
instructions in the"form in which they were given, ascertain
the substance of the facts, and save delay in sendihg the case
back for a fuller and more technical bill before deciding th6
points of law presented, we have concluded to state our opinion
now on those points.
And neither party can complain of this, when, as here, neither has objected to the imperfect form of this bill, and when
the questions on which the judge instructed the jury are apparent, and are not pretended to have been abstruse or irrelevant,
but related to the gist of the matter in controversy. Etting v.
Bank of the United States, 11 Wheaton, 59.
The material.facts, from what is developed in the charge,
seem to have been, that the collectgr received near $ 100,000
for duties in treasury-notes, and cancelled them; but after being put up in a bundle to be sent to the Treasury Department,
through the post-office, and orders given to the servant accustomed to deliver packages there to deliver these, the bundle
was stolen or lost.
It appeared further, that two of these notes for $ 500 each
were Aoon after altered and presented to the collector in payment of other duties, and received by him as genuine.
One of the instructions excepted to was, that if these last
two notes were taken by the collector without his knowledge
or consent to their alteration, and if they appeared to be genuine, and he believed them to be so, he was not liable for their
amount and interest.
But we all agree in opinion that this instruction was erroneous. A collector is bound to take genuine money or notes
rather than counterfeit ones, or the government would be exposed to infinite frauds and losses. The collector, too, need
not thus suffer in a case like this, as he is required to keep a
register of all treasury-notes received, and from whom taken;
and if any prove to be counterfeit, or altered, he has a remedy
in his own name, or that bf the government, for the amount on
the person who paid them in.
It is well settled, likewise, that an attempted payment in
counterfeit money, as cash, is in law no payment. Ellis v.
Wild, 6 Mass. 321; Young v. Adams, Ibid. 182, 186; Jones
et al. v. Ryder et al., 5 Taunton, 488; Salem Bank v. Gloucester Bank, 17 Mass. 1, 27, 28; 2 Johns. 455; 6 D. & E.
52. And as the collector here has given a discharge for the
duties to the amount of these notes, and has acknowledged
the receipt of payment for the duties to the government, as
well as the importer, and received or paid over nothing for
them which he was authorized to receive, he must stand
chargeable for that amount

160

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Morgan et al.

He was no more justified in taking cancelled treasury-notek
for duties than in taking waste-paper, and it was his particular
duty to see that they had not been cancelled or counterfeited;
and in the schedule of the treasury-notes, which he was obliged
to keep, he had ample means of detection. Though the government might still possess a remedy against the importer for
the duties, there having yet beeti no valid payment by him, yet
this is no bar, if they choose to resort to their remedy on the
bond of the collector, for his official negligence and wrong in
taking for their revenue counterfeit or cancelled notes.
The other instruction presents a question of more difficulty.
It was, that the collector was not liable for the treasurynotes which he had received for duties, if they had been dily
cancelled, after received, and were put up and ordered to be
delivered at the post-office for transmission to the Treasury
Department, though they were lost or purloined (without his
knowledge or consent) before placed in the charge of the postoffice.
A majority of us think that this instruction also was erroneous. It is manifest that, if the notes, though cancelled for
security in keeping them till transmitted, were still to be regarded for any purpose as money, the collector must be considered as liable for their amount till paid to the Department,
or actually delivered at the post-office, in conformity with the
order§ of the Department. It would then be a liability on his
bond to pay over what money he had received, as that manifestly had not here been done; or it would be a liability to
perform his duty as pf'omised in his oath and bond, and as
required by law and treasury instructions, - to transmit or pay
over the notes, and which, considering them as money, it cannot be pretended he has done. On this it is enough, in support
of his continued responsibility, to refer to the United States v.
Prescott, 3 Howard, 578.
But were fhese notes, when lost, still money?
It is true that originally they were by law to be received as
money. (Act of 12th October, 1837, 5 Stat. at Large, 202,
§ 6.) The fact that he is liable for the interest on these notes
after received and cancelled, and until they reach the Department, appears to favor the idea that the notes were still, for
some purposes at least, to be treated as continuing money
between the collector and the Department. (5 Stat. at Large,

203, § 7.)
But if this view be not cleariy sustainable, and we doubt
whether, under all the circumstances, after cancelled, they can
be regarded as money, or money's worth, for the purpose of sustaining this action, yet it is clear that they still possess some

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

161

The United States v. Morgan et al.

value as vouchers, and as evidence for the Treasury Department that they have been redbemed.
It is still clear, also, that, though cancelled, the Treasury
Department, unless having possession of them, is exposed to
expense and loss by their being altered, and the cancellation
removed or extracted, and their getting again into circulation,
as two did here, and being twice paid by the government.
For that reason','these notes, though cancelled, are, by law
and treasury orders, to be transmitted to the Department, and
when received there are to be credited to the collector; but not
till then, as a general rule. If the collector, therefore, fails to
send them there or to do all which is proper to get them there,
by having them put into the actual possession of some public
transmitting agent like the post-office, he fails in his duty;
and it is not enough for him to say, in justification, as in this
case, and as the court below upheld, that he gave orders to the
accustomed servant to put them in the post-office.
That servant was his own agent, and not the agent of the
Treasury Department. He allowed the notes to be lost or
stolen before reaching the post-office. His employer must suffer by his neglect or unfaithfulness rather than third persons.
The condition of the bond of the collector has, therefore, in
this view, never been fulfilled, and primd facie he is technically
liable for its penalty, and is in justice, as well as law, iesponsible for the amount of the iniury thus caused by himself or
his own agent.
The rule of damage would be the amount of the notes,
unless it appeared, as here, that they had been cancelled, and
unless it was shown that the government had suffered, or was
likely to suffer, damage less than their amount. How much is
the real damage, under all the circumstances, is a question of
fact for the jury, and should be passed on by them at another
trial.
Only that amount rather than tb whole bond need, in a
liberal view of the law, and of his bond, be exacted; and that
amount neither he nor his sureties can reasonably object to
paying, when he, by the neglect of himself or his .agent, has
caused all the injury which he is in the end required to reimburse. And if any equities exist to relieve him from that, none
of which are seen by us, it must be done by Congress and not
the courts of law.
Any thing less than this, -any less strict rule, in the public
administration of the finances, would leave every thing loose or
unsettled, and cause infinite embarrassments in the accounting
offices, and numerous losses to the government.
The argument which has been pressed to exonerate him
14#

162

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Morgan et al.

even from this extent of liability rests on an erroneous impression thht he was acting as a bailee, and under the responsfbilities of only the ordinary diligence of a depositary as to the
cancelled notes, when in truth he was acting under his commission and duties by law, as collector, and under the conditions of his bond. The collector is no more to be treated as
a bailee in this case than he would be if the notes were still
considered for all purposes as money.
He did not receive them as a bailee, but as a collecting
officer. He is liable for them on his bond, and not on any
original bailment or lending.
And if the case can be likened to any species of bailment in
forwarding them, by which they were lost, it is that of a common carrier to transmit them to the treasury, and in doing
which he is not exonerated by ordinary diligence, but must
answer for losses by larceny and even robbery. 2 Salk. 919;
8 Johns. 213; Angel on Cdrriers, §§ 1, 9.
Finally, we decide on this last question as a matter of law
this, and this only, namely, that the collector is liable for all
the actual damages sustained by his not returning the notes as
required by law and official circulars; or for not putting them
in the post-office so as to be returned. (5 Stat. at Large, 203.)
But how much this damage was is a matter of proof before
the jury, fixing the real amount likely to happen from their
getting into circulation again, as two of them did here, from
delay and inconvenience in obtaining the proper vouchers to
settle accounts, from the want of evidence at the Department
that the notes had been redeemed, or from any other direct
consequence of the breach of the condition of his bond, and
of his instructions under it.
Their return in the mode prescribed was by the original
treasury-note law deemed important "to proniote the public,
interests and convenience, and secure the United States and
the holders of said notes against fraud and losses." (See. 12th
of the act of 1837, before cited.) The neglect to do this is a
manifest and injurious breach of his bond.
The judgment below, then, must, for both of these instructions excepted to, be reversed, and the case sent back for another
trial, in conformity with the principles we have laid down.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

168

Gruner v. The United States.

ind the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de nrvo.

ERICH CHISTTlAx LUDWIG GRUI=R, CLAIMANT OF THE SCHOONER
FAIRY, HEI TACKLE, &C., APPELLANT, v. THE UNITED STATES.
Where a vessel was libelled in the District Court and sold by agreement of parties,
and the proceeds of sale amounted only to $ 850, which was paid into the registry,
this is insuflicient to bring the case within the jurisdiction of this court, although
an agreement by counsel was filed admitting the value of the vessel to be more
than two thousand dollars.
This agreement would be evidence of the value if nothing to the 'contraryappeared
in the record. But the decision of the court would only determine the right to
the proceeds of sale, viz. $850, and the case must therefore be dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
The facts in the case are sufficiently stated in the opinion of
the court.
It was argued by Alr. Sherwood, for the appellant, and .Mr.
Crittenden (Attorney-General), for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The schooner Fairy was seized by the collector of the port of
Galveiston for a violation of the registry acts of the United States,
and libelled in the District Court for the District of Texas.
A few days before she was seized by the collector, she had
been seized by the sheriff of Galveston County upon process
of sequestration issuing from a State court at the instance of
Gruner, the appellant. He appeared in the admiralty court,
and denied that the vessel was liable to forfeiture under the
registry acts; and averred that he had an equitable lien upon
her to the full amount of her value, by reason of certain transactions with a man by the name of Fruh, which are set out at
large in his answer; that he had proceeded to enforce this lien
in the proper court of the State of Texas, and had obtained
process of sequestration against the Fairy, which had been duly
served, and that she was in the custody of the sheriff of Galveston County upon this process when she was seized by the
collector; and he denied that the-District Court had jurisdiction
to proceed against her when she was previously in custody of
the law upon process from the State court.
While the suit was pending in the District Court, a written
agreement was filed between the district attorney and the

