272

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

nity, and to be encouraged by protection, who invents a use of
so cheap an earth as clay for knbbs, or in a new form or combination, by which the community are largely gainers?
On the whole case, then, it seems to me that justice between
these parties, as well as s6und legal principle, requires another

trial on instructions upon some points omitted, and instructions in some 6ther respects different in law from what were
given in this instance at the first trial.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
9f Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration

whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

MARY REESID, EXECUTRIX OF JAMSS REESIDE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. RoBEaT J. WALKER,; SECRETARY OF THE TLEASURY OF
THE UNITED STATES.
According to the practice in Pennsylvania, where a aefendant pleads set-off, the jury
are allowed to find in their verdict the amount that the plaintiff is indebted to the
-defendant, and According to their mode of keeping records this resul is entered by
way of note; e. g. "new trial refused and judgment on the verdict."
Although this may be a good record in the courts of Pennsylvania, it does not follow
that it is so in the courts of the United States.
The effect of such a judgment, that the plaintiff is indebted to the defendant, is merely
to lay the foundation for a scireflacius to try this new cause of action.
Where the United States were the plaintiffs, and a verdict was rendered that they
were indebted to the defendant, and an application was made for a mandamus to
compel the Secretary of the Treasury to credit the defendant upon the books of the
Treasury with the amount of the verdict, and to pay the same, the mandamus was
properly refused by the Circuit Court. For a mandamus will only lie against a
ministerial officer to do some ministerial act where the laws require him to do it
and he improperly refuses to do so.
Besides, there was no appropriation made by law, and no officer of the government
can pay a debt due by the United States without an appropriation by Congress.
To sanction a judgment under a plea, of set-off would virtually be allowing the
United States to be sued, which the laws do not allov.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District bf Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.

James Reeside, in hit lifetime, was one of the contractors
with the Post-Office' Department for the transportation of the
mail, and claimed sundry extra"alowances, which were not al-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

273

lRceside v. Walker.

lowed by the Department. InI consequence, thereof, a dispute
arose between the parties, and in October, 1839, the United
States brought an action in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Reeside, for the sum of
$32,709.62, which they claimed to have overpaid him.
The whole history of this suit is summed up in the following
transcript of the record :"In the Circuit Court of the United States, in and for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in the Third Circuit, October Session, 1839.
"Tim UNITED STATES Or AMEXicA v. J.MES REESIDE.
"Summons case. - Real debt $ 32,709.62, as per statement
of account from Auditor Post-Office Department, as late mail
contractor. Exit 5th Sept. 1837.
"1837, Oct. 11. -Returned, ' Served.'
"1840, January 25. - Interrogatories filed and ruled for comm'n e. p. defendant to Bedford, Pennsylvania, see. reg.
"1840, February 4. - Rule on plaintiffs to declare, sec. reg.;
18 interrogatories filed and rule for comm'n c. p. defendants to
Hollidaysburg, PennyslvaLia, see. reg.
"1840, March 2.- Narr. filed; 6th, defendant pleads payment; replication izon solvit, and issues and rule for trial by
special jury and ca.
"1841, March 2. - Agreement for taking the deposition of
Richard M. Johnson, a witness for defendant at the city of
Washington, on forty-eight hours' notice to the Auditor PostOffice Department, filed.
"1841, August 4. - Agreement taking deposition of R.'M.
Johnson, at Frankfort, Kentucky; and interrogatories filed;
deposition of R. M. Johnson filed.
"1841, October 22. - Defendant pleads non assurnpsit and
set-off and issues and ca.; and now [a] jury-being called, come,
to wit, Edward C. Biddle, S. M. Loyd, Thomas Connell,
George McLeod, Michael F. Groves, John C. Martin, William
C. Hancocl, Joseph Harrison, Jr., Joseph Parker, William Parker, William Gibson, and Thomas Cook, who are respectively
sworn or affirmed, &c.; deposition of Pishey Thompson filed.
"1841, December 6. - And now the jurors aforesaid, on their
oaths and affirmations aforesaid, respectively do say, that they
find for the defendant, and certify that the plaintiffs are indebted to the defendant in the sum of $188,496.06; judgment
nisi. On njotion of Messrs. Read & Cadwallader, for plaintiffs,
for a rule tor show cause why-a new trial should not be granted,
and for leave to move for such new trial, on exceptions to the
ruling of the court on questions of evidence and- matters of

274

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

lqw, embraced in the charge of the court, without such motion.
being deemed a waiver thereof, the motion is received; notice
thereof to be given to the opposite counsel; returnable 1st
Monday in January next.
"1841, December 9. -Reasons for a new trial filed.
"1842, lay 12.- Motion for new trial overruled ; new trial
refused, and judgment on the verdict; copy of assignmnt,
James Reeside to John Grey; and copy of notice, James Reeside to Postmaster-General, filed.
"1842, July 27. - Precipe for writ of error filed.
"UNITED STATES, Eastern District of Pennsylvania,sct.
"I certify the -foregoing to be a true and faithful transcript
of the docket entries in the above-named suit.
" In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name
and affixed the seal of said court at Philadelphia, this 4th day
cf January, A. D. 1847, and in the seventy-first year of the in.
dependence of the said United States.
C GEORGE

PLTT

In September, 1842, James Reeside died, and Mary R-eside,
his widow, became his executrix.
On the 4th of November, 1849, Mary Reeside filed a petition
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, in and for the county of Washington. The petition
stated the above facts, and with it was filed the transcript of the
record as it has been set forth. It concluded as follows :"Wherefore, your petitioner does respectfully pray, that your
honors, the premises considered, will award the United States
writ of mandamus to be directed to the said Robert J. Walker,
Secretary of the Treasury Department of the United States,
commanding him,
"First. That he shall enter or cause' to be entered upon the
books of the Treasury Department of the United States, under
date of May 12th, 1842, a credit to the said James Reeside of
the sum of $ 188,496.06.
"Second. That he shall pay to your petitioner, as executrix
as aforesaid, the said sum, with interest thereon from the said
12th day of May, 1842.
" And your petitioner shall ever pray, &c.
"MARY

REESIE.

The Circuit Court ordered that the motion for a mandamus
be overruled, and the prayer of the petitioner rejected. Whereupon Mary Reeside sued out a writ of error, and brought the
case up to this court.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

275

Reeside v. Walker.

It was argued by 11r. Goodrich, for the plaintiff in error, and

Mr. Crittenden (Attorney-General), for the defendant in error.
Mr. Goodrich, for the plainfiff in error, made the following
points.
The application for relief, in the court below, was of double
aspect. First, that the Secretary of the Treasury be directed
to enter to the credit of James Reeside, under proper date, upon the books of the Treasury Department, the amount of the
verdict and judgment aforesaid. Second,. that the Secretary
of the Treasury be directed to pay the amount of such credit,
with interest thereon, to the complainant.
Is the plaintiff in error entitled to the relief sought, or any
part thereof? It may be urged, that the United States cannot
be sued. As a general proposition, it may be admitted. It is
equally *true that the Urited States may be sued with its
own consent. United States v. McLemore, 4 Howard, 288;
Hill v. United States, 9 Howard, 389. Its officers, in their
representative capacity, may be sued with consent of the goveirnnent. The right of the citizen against the government may
be judicially ascertained, if the legislative department so provide; and such adjudication, rightfully had, must be conclusive,
unless express provision to the contrary is made. The judiciarv
may be authorized to determine the right, to pass a judgment
or decree which shall bind the government, and may not have
authority to issue execution against the government or its property. It is equally true that it is the duty of every goyernment,
especially of the United States, to provide some mode for the
ascertainment and liquidation of the claims of the citizen
against the government. The mode adopted in England and
in this country, in many cases, is by authorizing a resort to the
judiciary; sometimes such resort is permitted in the first instance, but generally after an unsuccessful application to some
department or commission. Wherever the United States
have authorized recourse to the judiciary, and the right has
been contested or settled by the judiciary in the mode prescribed, such judicial action upon the right - I speak not of the
remedy - must be in its nature conclusive and final. Whenever and wherever a judicial tribunal is authorized to pass upon any matter or right, and it does pass upon it, it must be
regarded res adjudicata,subject only to be reversed on error.
The 'United States, in harmony with its duty, has, in many
instances, authorized the judiciary to determine controverted
questions between the citizen and the government. Some of
those cases are submitted, for the purpose of analogy, and for
the deductions which they afford in aid of the construction,

276

SUPREME

COURT.

1.oeside v. Walker.

which will be relied upon, of the statutes which must control
the preseht case.
4 Stat. at Large, 284, May 23, 1828, ch. 70, § 6. In
which provision is made, that private land claims in Florida,
not finally settled by the commissioners, may be decided by
the judge of the Superior Court for the district within which
the lands are, provided the claims shall have been previously
presented for allowance to the 'commissioner, register, or receiver. Sect. 7 provides an appeal to the Supreme Court of
the United States. Sect. 13, that the decisions shall be final
between the United States and tAe claimant. Under this stat.
ute, an appeal in one case was taken to this court, but dis.
missed, because the original application was not made within
the time prescribed. United States v. Marvin, 3 Howard, 620.
The power of the court to pass a valid decree upon a proper
application was not doubted.
3 Stat. at Large, 691, May 7, 1822, ch. 96. An act to empower the city of Washington to drain the public grounds. In
sect. 6 it is provided, that the proprietors may institute a bill
in equity in the nature of a petition of right, against-the United
States, in the Circuit Court. Sect. 8, suits to be conducted
according to the rules of courts of equity. Sect. 9, an appeal
may be taken to the Supreme Court, and if no appeal, the
judgment of Circuit Court to ,be final. Van Ness v. City
of Washington and United States, 4 Peters, 232, is a case
uider this statute. On page 266, D& Taney, arguendo, says:
"It submits their rights to judicial decision. In submitting to
such a trial and decision they (the government) place themselves on the ground of contract, and waive any rights their sovereignty might give. For it would be absurd, indeed, to suppose t
he United States gave to the court the mere power
of hearing a cause, when that hearing could produce no
judicial resu " The court, Mr. Justice Story giving the opinion,
say: "It is iot necessary to consider whether the bill is so
framed as to enable the ourt to pass a definitive decree
against the United States"; thus by implicatioi admitting the
power-ef -the court to pass a binding decree in a proper case.
Passing from these general considerations, I submit,L The verdict and judgment of the-court thereon, in the
Circuit Court of Pennsylvania, in the suit United States v.
-James Reeside, is a legal adjudication that the United States,
at the time of its rendition, were indebted to him in the sum
therein named, the validity of.which is not open to contestation, except upon writ of error; that plaintiff is now entitled
to have an entry to his credit, of the amount so decreed, upon
the books of the Treasury Department.

DECPMBER TERM, 1850.

277

Reeside v. Walker.

This position results in an inquiry into the extent of the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania. I submit
that the court had jurisdiction to pass, with the aid of the jury,
upon all claims presented by Reeside, which he had previously
exhibited to the proper department, and'which had been by
such department disallowed. The jurisdiction may be- sustained upon two grounds : 1st. The court rightfully exercised jurisdiction under a proncial statute of Pennsylvania, passed in 1705, known as the
Defalcation Act. This act says: "If it appears to the jury that
the 'plaintiff is overpaid, then they shall give in their verdict
for the defendant, and withal certify to the court how much
they find the plaintiff to be indebted, or in arrear to the defendant more than will answer the sum or debt demanded, and the
sum or sums so certified shall be recorded with the verdict, and
ehall be deemed as a debt of record. And if the plaintiff fail
to pay, defendant for recovery shall have scire facias, and have
execution for the sams with costs of that action." Has this
act been adopted by the Circuit Court of the United States
within the District of Pennsylvania, or by the Judiciary Act of
the United States'? If so, has it been adopted in, or can it
be applied to, cases in which the United States are a party?
In suits between citizens litigating in the Circuit Court of
Pennsylvania, there can be no doubt it is obligatory. If not
applicable to cases in which the United States are parties,
such result follows from one of two causes; - first., the United
States are not bound by State statute, or by any statute,
unless specially named; second, because the- court had no
power to issue execution against the United States; in other
words, no part of this act is applicable because some of i
provisions may not be. The first can have no influence, because the United States, when it voluntarily becomes a suitor
in any court, must submit, and does submit, to the same ruleg
and mode of proceeding which apply to any other suitor. The
practice and rules of the court constitute"the law of the court.
The government or sovereign, when a suitor, is bound by the
same rules of evidence as any other suitor, unless there is
some statute provision to the contrary, except in some matters
of presumption, not applicable to this inquiry. These principles are sustained by the reasoning of the court in the case
of King of Spain v. Hullet et al., 1 Clark & .Finnelly, 333,
which was a suit brought by a foreign sovereign in his political capacity. The court held he was bound by the rules and
practice of the court which were applicable to ordinary suitors, and like them was held to answer a cross-bill personally
and upon oath. As to the second supposed reason, the inan
24
VOL. XT.

278

SUPREME COURT.
.Reeside v. Walker.

bility of the-court to issue execution or scire facias against the
United States, it does not follow that the right cannot be determined because there is'no remedy, or a different one than
that prescribed by the act. That this act was regarded by
the Circuit Court as one of its modes or rules of proceeding,
adopted by rule or long practice, or as erhbraced in the Judiciary Act, adopting the course of proceedings of the several
State courts, is apparent from the record exhibited in the
printed case. I do not, however, consider it of any. consequence whether this colonial act is applicable or not.
2d. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania is
sustained and conferred by statutes of the'United States. It
will be admitted, I presume, that the Circuit Court had a right
to pass upon some of the items which James Reeside set up.
It must be granted, I suppose, that, so far as the court and jury
rightfully passed upon any items of credit claimed, the adjudication is conclusive, and cannot be again 'a proper subject of
contestation as to the question of right. Items thus allowed
become debts of record. The accounting officers of the government are b )und to pass upon all claims presented to them,
without reference to the number or amount of the debits of the
government against the party applying. If a suit is subsequently instituted by the United States against a supposed
debtor, he has a right to present, for the consideration of the
court and jury, all items for which he had previously claimed a
credit at the department, without any reference to the number
or amount of the debits against him. There is and can be no
other limit, so far as the right is concerned. After the decision
of the court and jury, the items allowed by them go to the
credit of the party upon the books of the department; they
constitute credits, if I may so say, judicially placed upon the
books of the department, and when thus placed there by the
decree of the Court to wnich they had been referred, they cannot be erased, but mast be considered as definitely settled. I
now proceed to inquire whether these views are sustained by
the statutes, and to what extent they authorize the court to
adjudicate upon credits claimed by a defendaut, against whom
the United States have insti.'ted a suit.
1 Stat. at Large, 65, Sept. %. 1789, ch. 12, is an act to establish the Treasury Department, by the third section of which
e compuroller shall direct pro t.cutions for debts that are or
sliall be due to the United States. By the sixth section it is
made thb duty of the register to keep an account, &c., of all
debts due to or from the United States.
1 Stat. at Large, 73, Sept. 24, 1189, ch. 20. The Judiciary
Act, the eleventh sebtion. of which authorizes the Circuit Courts

DECEMBER-TERM, 1850.

279

Reesido v. Walker.

to entertain jurisdiction where the United States may be a
party. There can be no reasonable intendment or presumption, that the jurisdiction thus conferred is not, when exercised,
conclusive and final as to the right contested; on the other
hand, such must be the effect.
1 Stat. at Large, 441, March 3, 1795, ch. 48 (repealed). This
statute provides for the settlement and ascertainment of a certain class of debts due to the government. The officers intrusted to act are to decide, upon principles of equity, upon all
claims made, -not merely upon an amount sufficient to absorb the government debits,-and the decision is made final.
'Upon the same principle, it is submitted that, in cases where
recourse to the judiciary is permitted, the decision must be
uponl all claims which the party has a right to make, in the absence of any provision to the contrary, and the decision should
be rpgarded as final. It would be mere mockery to authorize
the judiciary to examine and adjudicate upon a matter, unless
such adjudication is to be final.
1 Stat. at Large, 512, March 3, 1797, ch. 20. This act provides for the settlement of accounts between the United States
and receivers of public money. It is -all accounts, - not so
many, and so inaly only, as shall equal the debits. The fourth
section authorizes'the court t6 pass upon all items of credit
which have been presented to the Treasury Department, and
there disallowed. No other limit.
3 Stat. at Large, 366, March 3, 1817, ch. 45, § 2, provides
that all claims and demands whatever, by the United States or
against them, and all accounts whatever in which tile United
States are concerned, either as debtors or as creditors, shall be
adjusted and settled in the 'Treasury Department.
3 Stat. at Large, 592, May 15, 1820 ch. 107, § 4. Certain
officers are authorized to determine certain claims, and issue
warrants to enforce payment; in which case an appeal is allowed to the judiciary. The eighth section of this act requires
the clerks of the District and Circuit Courts, at the close of
each term, to return to the proper officer a list of all judgments
and decrees during the term, to which the Uhited States are
parties, showing the amount which has been so adjudged or
decreed for or against the United States. Frgm this nrovision
it is apparent that the jurisdiction of the court is not all on one
side, it may pass a judgment or decree against the United
States. It may pass upon all claims Previously rejected by the
department.
3 Stat. at Large, 770, March 1, 1823, ch. 37, § 1. This statute authorizes certain accounts, in relation to which there are
no vouchers, to be settled upon equitable principles, by the ac-

280

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

counting officers, provided the amount allowed shall not exceed the debits. This is the only statute which confines and
limits the amount of credits which may be allowed to the
amount of the debits. The reason of the distinction is obvious,
-the accounts are to be adjusted upon equitabie principles,
and without requiring vouchers.
4 Stat. at Large, 414, May 29, 1830, ch. 153, § 6. The Solicitor of the Treasury is required to report to the proper officer all
credits allowed by due course of law on any suits under his direction. There does not seem to be any doubt as to the extent
of credits which, under this statute, may be allowed by due
course of law; all credits disallowed by the accounting officer
may be set up by a party sued by the United States, and if
proved, allowed, and thereupon be reported as credits thus allowed.
4 Stat. at Large, 563, July 5, 1832, ch. 173. Certain judgments against the State of Virginia to be paid by the United
States. In the third section the Secretary of the Treasury is
authorized to pay claims where no judgment has been recovered, upon the same principles which the court had adopted in
the cases before it; thus reposing confidence in the judgments
of the court. As to the correctness of the judgments rendered,
the United States, although not parties, make no question or
revision.
5 Stat. at Large, S0, July 2, 1836, ch. 270, Post-Office Department. The fifteenth section of this act provides that no
claim for a credit shall be allowed upon any trial, except such
as shall have been presented to the auditor, and shall have
been disallowed. - In -other words, every claim thus exhibited
and disallowed, in the event of a suit against the party, shall
be adjudicated by the court. Here is no limit as to the amount
which the court may allow.
I have thus shown that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to
adjudicate upon the credits which James Reeside claimed in
the litigation between him and the United States.
I now proceed to show that the credits allowed in this way,
by due course of law, are to be placed upon the books of the
department to the credit of the party making them.
1 Stat. at Large, 433, March 3, 1795, ch. 45, § 3 (obsolete),
which provides that 'credits for -loan 4f money to the government shall be entered upon books of the Treasury Department..
1 Stat. at Iarge, 441, March 3,1795, ch. 48, § 2. Provision is
made for the adjustment of debts due to and from the United
States, and when claims are allowed in the mode prescribed,
credit is to be passed therefor upon the public books of ac'count.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

281.

Reeside v. Walker.

3 Stat. at Large, 592, May 15, 1820, ch. 107, § 7. Itis the
duty of the district attorneys to conform in-all suits to the directions of the agent of the Treasury. And immediately at
the end of each term of the court within their district, to forward to the agent of the Treasury a statement of the cases, and
their disposition, in which the United States are a party. The
eighth section requires the clerks to make returns to the agent
of the Treasury, with a list of all judgments and decrees, in
cases to which the Uhiited States may be a party, showing the
amount which has been so adjudged or- decreed for or against
the United States.
4 Stat. at Large, 414, May 29,1830, ch.153, § 2. Returns to
be made to the solicitor instead of the agent of the Treasury.
The fifth section authorizes the solicitor to control all suits in
which the United States may be a party. By the sixth section he is required to report to the proper officer all credits,
allowed by due course of law, on any suits under his direction.
5 Stat. at Large, 80, July 2, 1836, ch. 270, Post-Offico Dcpartment, § 16, requires the district -attorney to forward to the
auditor of the Post-Office Department a statement of all judgments, &c., in suits growing out of that department. These
statutes clearly show the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts,
and that all credits allowed shall be entered upon the proper
public books to the credit of the party making them.
I submit that the construction of these statutes which I have
suggested has been confirmed and uniformly acted upod by
the courts. I do not say the position has been presented in express terms, as now presented, but it is a necessary implicao
tion from the course of adjudication which has been pursued.
Defendants in suits brought by the United States have often
relied upon a claim for credits in amount exceeding the debits,
and no counsel or court has objected to the consideration of
them.
United States v. Giles, 9 Cranch, 212. In this case, the
limit assumed by counsel for the government was to debita
which had been disallowed by the accounting officers.
United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 135. . Not merely legal,
but equitable claims, are to be allowed to debtors of the United
States, by the proper officers. No limit is made to the nature
or origin of the claim for a credit, although it was not connected with the claim sought to be recovered by the govern.
ment. The court refer to the act of March 3, 1797, and say, the
object of the act seems to be to liquidate and adjust all accounts between the parties, and to require a judgment for such
sum only as is equitably due from the defendant. In this case
the mind of the court was not directed to a case in which a
24*

2

SUPREME

COURT.

Reeside v. Walker.

balance might be due the defendant, which circumstance is not
sufficient to change and confine the construction of the statute
to such case as was before the court. If so, the great object
of the statute, which is a liquidation and adjustment of all accounts between the parties, would be defeated. So, also, it
would result, in those cases where suit is brought, if the view
presented is not sound, that the power of the court is less than
that of the accounting officers, from whose decision the institution of a suit is in effect, although not in form, an appeal.
Walton v. United States, 9 Wheat. 651. In which the court
say, if any item of defendant's account has been improperly
rejected by accounting officer, it is to be restored to his credit.
Van Ness v. City of Washington and United States, 4 Peters, 232.
Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 193. In which the court say a
judgment in its nature concludes the subject on which it is
rendered.
Hunter v. United States, 5 Peters, 185. The same rules of
contract are applicable where the sovereign is a party, as be.
tween individuals. The court make a distinction, where the
government is concerned, between the right and the remedy.
United States v. Nourse, 6 Peters, 470. The court below
found a balance due the defendant.
United States v. Nourse, 9 Peters, 8. The judgment be.
tween the parties in 6 Peters was held conclusive.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 711, 715, 71S. W"hen
the United States consent to he suet, and submit to judicial
action, the rights of the parties to be determined upon the
same principles as between man and man.
United States v. Dunn, 6 Peters, 51 ; United States v. Mc.
Daniel, 7 Peters, 1; United States v. Ripley, 7 Peters, 18;
United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 28; United States v.
Percheman, 7 Peters, 51. No limit of the jurisdiction of the
court to items equal in amount with the debits was suggested.
United States v. Jones, 8 Peters, 375. Court say, the de.
fendant may retain the credits allowed, may deny the debits,
and claim credits disallowed; thus making no distinction as
to the right of the party, depending upon the state of accounts
between him and the government.
United States v. Hawkins, 10 Peters, 126. Claims exceeding the debits were passed upon without objection.
TUnited stales v. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Peters, 377. "When
United S'ates becomes party to a negotiable instrument, it has
all the rights and incurs all the responsibilities of individuals
who are 1arties to such instruments. There is no difference, ex-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

283

Reeside v. WIalker.

cept that the United States cannot be sued. But if the United
States sue, and the defendant holds its negotiable paper, the
amount of it may be claimed as a credit, if after presentation
to the accounting officer it has been disallowed, and it should
be allowed by a jury as a credit against a debt claimed by
United States." Suppose a suit in 'which the .United States
present a claim for five thousand dollars, and the defendant
exhibits a valid bill of exchange for ten thousand dollars, upon
which the government are liable, upon what part of this bill
are the court to pass? for how much is he to have credit upon
the public books? I submit, that the adjudication of the court
must extend to the whole amount of the bill.
Gratiot v. United States, 4 Howard, 80-110. In this case
defendant claimed a balance, and no objection was made to a
consideration of all the items.
Bigelow v. Folger, 2 Metcalf, 266. "When a defendant,
in a suit by an administrator of an insolvent estate, files in
set-off a claim larger than the one on which he is sued, he is
entitled to judgment for the balance. The judgment is to be
certified to the judge of probate, and by him added to the list
of claims.".
Peck v. Jenness, 7 Howard, 612. The court rendered a special judgment, to accomplish itz jurisdiction, to protect the
rights of the parties.
Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Peters, 449. Every
act of a court must be presumed to have been rightly done until the contrary appears. Lytle v. State of Arkansas 9 Howard,
333 ; Statutes of 1845 - 46, ch. 90, p. 59.
II. Assuming the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania had jurisdiction to pass upon all items which had been disallowed, and
that the credits thus allowed must be passed to the credit of
James Reeside upon the public books, as having been put
there by due course of law, is the remedy of the plaintiff (assuming for the present she has a remedy) against the Secretary of the Treasury, or against the Postmaster-General, in
whose department the claim had its origin ?
3 Stat. at Large, 366, March 3, 1817, ch. 45, § 2. "All
claims and demands whatever by the United States or against
them, and all accounts. whatever in which the United States
are concerned, either as, debtors or creditors, shall be adjusted
and settled in the Treasury Department."
This prinid facie points out the place of adjustment, and
must be so regarded until the contrary is shown. This adjustment and settlement means liquidation, payment. The
words must be construed with reference to the subject-matter
and purpose to be accomplished; -the provisiqn was not mere-

284

SUPREME COURT.
Beeside v. Walker.

lyto ascertain the amount of indebtment of the government.
It may be said that this has no application to contracts origi.
nating in the Post-Office Department. Be it so; a more recent
statute settles the matter.
5 Stat. at Large, 80, July 2, 1836, § 6. By this statute,
the Treasury is to pay debts of Post-Office Department. 5
Stat. at Large, 732, March 3, 1845, ch. 43, § 22.
III. Assuming the amount due Reeside, as found by the
court and jury, must be put to his credit on the books of the
Treasury Department, has the plaintiff any remedy? and if so,
is it by mandamus ?
If the views are correct which have been presented, the
amount due Reeside must be regarded as a debt of record; as
a debt judicially ascertained, and no longer open to contesta.
tion. The Secretary of the Treasury has no discretion as to
the amount due, or as to the propriety of putting the credits
upon the books. It is then like any other debt which is to be
paid. Formerly, many debts were paid by the commissioners
of- loan; afterwards, by the United States Bank. Now, all
debts are to be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury.
1 Stat. at Large, 65, September 2, 1789, ch. 12; 1 Stat. at
Large, 512, March 3, 1797, ch. 20; 5 Stat. at Large, 80, July 2,
1836, ch.'270, § 10; 5 Stat. at Large, 752, March 3, 1845, ch.
71, § 4, which provides that accounts settled at the Treasury
Department .shall not be opened. The last-cited statute also
provides that the accounting officers shall not pass upon claims
not presented within six years.
5 Stat. at Large, 112, July 4, 1836, ch. 353, § 10, by which
the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized auad directed to
pay, out of 'any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, any outstanding debts of the Uhited States, and. the
I submit that an account settled by the
interest thereon.
court, in eases whwie the United States bring suit, and the result entered upon the books, must bt regarded as closed, and
-as a debt to be paid.
Stat of 1846-47, 123, February 9, 1847. The Secretary of
the Treasury is to pay interest on all the public debt authorized
by law. This in6ludes debts of every description, without reference to their origin.
It may be said that the suit was hot instituted within six
years,/and is therefore barred. Such defencz was not set up in
the-coirt below, and cannot be set up, because the limitation
of six years refers undbubtedly to the original claim to be made
to the accounting Officers: See statpte already cited, March
3, 1845, ch. 71, § 4, and Stat. of 1845 - 46, May 7, 184, ch. 13.
Assuming that the party is entitled to remedy, is it by .a man-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

285

Reeside v. Walker.

damus? I submit that such is the proper remedy, and the
only remedy. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; Kendall v.
United States, 12 Peters, 524 ; Ferguson v. Kinnoul, 9 Clark
& Finnelly, 251; The King v. Commissioner of Treasury;
5 Nev. & Mann. 589; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 Howard, 87.
Thb case of Kendall v. United States is a direct, and, as is
supposed, conclusive authority. In that case a statute directed
a particillar claim to be adjusted in a particulfr mode; that
the debt, when so ascertained, should be paid. In the case
before the court, the claim of the party has been adjusted and
adjudicated in a mode pointed out by general statutes applicable to a class of cases, and such adjustmeht has resulted in
a fixed, certain debt, in relation to which no discretion remains.
This debt, like any and all other debts, is directed by general
statutes, which require the settlement and adjustment of claims,
to be paid. The cases of Decatur v. Pauldifig, 14 Peters, 497,
and Brashear v. Mason, 6 Howard, 92, do not conflict. They
may well be distinguished .from the case before the court. Rex
v. Nottingham Old Water Works Company, 1 Nev. & Perry
493. Coleridge, Justice, says, two things must conspire to
authorize a mandamus : a specific legal right, and the ab.
sence of an effectual and efficient remedy for the encroachment
of that right.
Whether there is any money in the treasury, or appropriation with which to pay, cannot arise until the objection is
taken in the court below.
In the court below, the court dismissed the application with.
out going much into the reasons. Their judgment was put
upon two grounds;-that no specific appropriation had been
made; that there was no special law directing its payment
When the original contracts were made with the Post-Office
Department, appropriations were made-to meet them; and, by
subsequent legislation, the debts of the Post-Office are to be
paid by the Treasury; so, where there is a general law directing the adjustment and payment of debts, there is no occasion
for a special act to direct their payment. The Secretary is not
charged with discretion in the one case any more than in the
other. The court below refer for their reasons to an opinion
given by them in MlcElrath v. McIntosh. The cases are entirely dissimilar. In that case the validity of a power of attorney was to be determined; the claimant under the power
of attorney did not stand upon the public books as a creditor
of the government. A most appropriate answer to the application in that case might have been given in a single word ;'- a
claim against the sovereign cannot be assigned except with his
consent express, or, as in the case of, bills of exchange, to

286

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

which he is a party by implication. The opinion of the court
below in these two cases may be seen in Law Reporter, Boston, pp. 399 and 448, Vol. I. new series.
By the statute of July 2, 1836, ch. 270, already cited, the
funds of the Post-Office Department are transferred to the
Treasury; the suits are to be under the guidance of the Treasury, and all future appropriations paid by it. This mut be
regarded as a transfer of the former appropriations made
from year to year, for the services which Reeside performed
during their performance.
By the statute of March 3,1845, ch. 43, § 22 (5 Stat. at Large,
732), it is provided, that, if the postage received under the act, in
addition to an annual appropriation of $ 750,000, is not sufficient to meet the expense of the department, the deficienc- shall
be paid from any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated. To confine this provision to the expenses of the department which might accrue after the passage of the act, would
not be in accordance with the faith or duty of the government;
suach limited construction is not required by the language or
purpose of the statute.
In conclusion, as the result of the statutes and authorities
relied upon, it is submitted, that James Reeside, when sued by

the United States, had a right to present for adjudication; that
the court had jurisdiction to adjudicate upon every claim
which had been previously made to, and disallowed by, the
proper department; that the sum allowed to him by the court
should have been, and no doubt was, at the time, certified
to the proper department; that thereupon it should have
been, and now should be, entered to his credit upon the public
books of account, as a debt due from the United States to him,
in relation to the correctness or fitness of which the accounting officers have no longer any discretion; and although the
debt originated in the Post-Office Department, by force of
statutes noW( in existence, it should be paid by the Treasury
,Department; the duty of the department is merely ministerial.
M1r..' rittet1en made the following points
1st. That the said Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania had no power or jurisdiction to render judgment
against the United States for the said sum of $ 188,496.06, or
for any amount, and that their said judgment is, therefore, null
and void. The sovereign power is subject neither to suit nor
judgment in its own courts, unless by its own consent, and in
this country that consent can only be given by law. Judiciary
A.ct of 1789, § 11 (1 Stat. at Large,.78) ; 1 Black. Comm. 266

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

287

Reeside v. Walker.

to 269; 3 Story on the Constitution, 154; Briscoe v. Bank of
the Commonwealth, of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 321 ; U. States v.
Hoar, 2 Mason, C. C. 311.
2d. That, if said judgment be valid and binding, there cart
be no reason why the same judicial power that could render it
may not enforce it by the ordinary process of execution; and
therefore there can be no occasion for the extraordinary writ
of mandamus, which can be legally resorted to only where
there is no other remedy. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch,
62 et seq.
3d. That if any force or virtue can be ascribed to said judgment, (we think none can,) by analogy to the orderg or decrees
of English chancellors upon petitory proceedings before them
against the crown, it must follow, from the same analogy,
that the judgment, like those decrees, is persuasive merely,
not compulsory, and therefore most certainly not to be enforced
•by mandamus. 1 Black. Comm. 241, 242.
4th. The writ of mandamus can be properly issued to a publie officer only to compel him to perform a certain act which
he is directed by law to do; an act ministerial, and not inVolving the exercise of any discretion.
There is no law which directs the Secretary of the Treasury
to enter on -the books of the Treasury a credit to James Reeside for the amount of this judgment, or to pay the same to
the petitioner; and she cannot, therefore, be entitled to the
mandamus for which sie prays.
Marbury v. Madison, 1
Cranch, 62; Postmaster-General, &c. v. U. States, on the relation of Stokes, 12 Peters, 524.
5th. It does not appear that Congress have, in any way, recognized this judgment, or their obligation to pay it, or that they
have made any appropriation for its payment, and therefore
the mandamus prayed for ought not to be issued. Constitution, art. 1, § 9 (1 Stat. at Large, 15).
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a writ of error, brought to reverse a judgment in
the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, dismissing a
petition for a writ of mandamus.
The mandamus was asked for by the plaintiff, as executrix
of James Reeside, to direct the defendant, as Secretary of the
United States Treasury, to enter on the books of the Treasury
Department to the credit of said James the sum of $ 188,496.06,
and pay the same to the plaintiff as his executrix. The grounds
for the petition, as set out therein, were, that the United States
had sued Reeside in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on certain post-office

288

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

contracts, and on the 22d of October, 1841, he pleaded a large
set-off, and the jury, on the 6th. of December ensuing, returned
-a verdict in his favor on the several issues which had been
joined, and certified that the United States were indebted to
him in the sum of $ 188,496.06 ; and that on the 12th day of
May, 1842, final judgment was rendered in his favor on this
verdict, which has never been paid, but still remains in full
force.
On an examination of the record, the first objection, to the
issue of a mandamus seeis to be, that no judgment appears to
have been given, such as is set out in the petition, in favor of
Reeside for the amount of the verdict.
Certain minutes were put in of the proceedings in that suit,
beginning with the writ, in 1837, including the verdict, and
coming down to May 12, 1842, when it is said, "New trial refused, and judgment on the verdict."
But these seem to be the mere waste docket minutes, from
which a judgment or a record of the whole case could afterwards be drawn up. They do not contain a judgment in extenso, nor are they a copy of any such judgment. But if, by
the laws or practice of Pennsylvania, these minutes may be
used instead of a full record, it is difficult to see a good reason
for allowing them to control the forms and the principles of the
common law applicable to them in the courts and records of
the United States; and certainly they could not, unless private
rights were involved in having them thus considered, so as to
come under the 34th section of the Judiciary Act (1 Stat. at
Large, 92). Or unless, as a matter of practice, it was well settled in this way as early as the process law of 1789. (See 1
Stat. at Large, 93.)
But without going into this point further,-means to do it
not having been furnished by the petitioner, who relies on it, and
was therefore bound to furnish such means,-there is another
objection to it paramount to this, and sufficient for barring its use
to support the present proceeding. In a case like this, in Penzisylvania, where a set-off is pleaded and a balance found due to
the defendant, the judgment entered, if well pro 7ed by such minutes, is not, as the petitioner supposes, that the United States
was indebted to Reeside in the amount of-the verdict and should
p .y it; but it merely lays the foundation for a scirefacias to
issue, and a hearing be had on that if desired. (Penn. Laws
by Dunlap, ch. 20, § 2.) The petitioner and her husband have
neglected to pursue the case in that way to a final judgment,
and hence have offered no evidence of one, on the verdict of
indebtedness to Reeside by the United States. The judgment
so far as regards that action would be, when no scire facias

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

289

Reeside v. Walker.

was sued out, that the defendant go without day; and so
these minutes should be drawn up, when put in a full and due
form.
In Ramsey's Appeal, 2 Watts, 230, Ch. J. Gibson explains
this fully. "The reference," says 'he, "was under the act of
1705, by the first section of which the jury are directed, when a
set-off has been established for more than the plaintiffs demand, to find a verdict for the defendant, and withal certify to
the court how much they find the plaintiffs to be indebted
or in arrear to the defendant. The certificate thus made is an
appendage to the verdict, but no part of it or of the premises
on which the judgment is rendered; for the judgment is not
quod recuperet, but that the defendant go without day. On
the contrary, it is expressly made a distinct and independent
cause of action by a scirefacias; and though a debt of record,
it is not necessarily a lien, as was shown in Allen v. Reesor, 16
Serg. & Rawle, 10, being made so only by judgment on a
scire facias."
The gist of the prayer for a mandamus, therefore, fails. Be.
cause, though this application is in form against the person
who was Secretary of the Treasury, November 4th, 1848; yet
it is to affect the interests and liabilities alleged by the plaintiff herself to exist on the part of the United States.
Furthermore, the judgment sought to be paid is one claimed
to have been rendered in form, as well as substance, against the
oUnited States.
Now, under these circumstances, though a mandamus may
sometimes lie against a ministerial officer to do some ministerial act connected with the liabilities of the government, yet
it must be where the government itself is liable, and the
officer himself has improperly refused to act.
It must even then be in a case of clear, and not doubtful
right. Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 525; Life & Fire
Ins. Co. v. Wilson's Heirs, 8 Peters, 291. But here, as no judgment of indebtedness existed against the United States, the
whole superstructure built on that must fall.
To save future expense and litigation in this case, with a view
to obtain the desired judgment, it seems proper to make a few
remarks on the other objections to the mandamus, resting on
other and distinct grounds.
A mandamus will .not lie against a Secretary of the Treasury, unless the laws require him to do what he is asked in the
petition to be made to do. But there is no law, general or
special, requiring him either to enter iuch claims as these'on
the books of tHe Treasury Department, or to pay them.
The general statutes, cited by the counsel for the petitioner,
25
VOL. xr.

290

SUPREME COURT.
Reeside v. Walker.

in no case require the Secretary to enter claims like these on
his books, or to pay them, when there has been no appropriation made to cover them. This last circumstance seems overlooked by the plaintiff, or sufficient importance is not attached
to it, and it will be further considered before'closing.
Nor is any special law pretended directing the entry of this
claim on the books, or the payment of it either before or after
entry. The case of Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 524,
was one of a special law regulating the subject.
Again, a mandamus, as before intimated, is only to compel
the performance of some ministerial, as well as legal duty.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 524; Rex v. Water-works
Company, 1 Nev. & Perry, 493.
When the duty is not strictly ministerial, but involves discretion and judgment, like the general" doings of a head of a
department, as was the respondent here, and as was the case
here, no mandamus lies. Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Peters, 497;
Brashear v. lvIason, 6 Howard, 92.
It is well settled, too, that no action of any kind can be sustained against the government itself, for any supposed debt,
unless by its own consent, under some special statute allowing
it, which is not pretended to exist here. Briscoe v. Kentucky
Bank, 11 Peters, 321; 4 Howard, 288; 9 Howard, 389.
The sovereignty of the government not only protects it
against suits directly, but against judgments even for cost,
when it fails in prosecutions (4 Howard, 288).
Such being the settled principle in our system of jurispru.
dence, it would be derogatory to the courts to allow the principle to be evaded or circumvented.
They could not, therefore, permit the claim to be enforced
circuitously by mandamus against the Secretary of the Treasury, when it could not be directly against the United States;
and when no judgment on and for it had been obtained against
the United States.
As little also would be the propriety of allowing by seire
facias, or otherwise, a judgment to be entered against the
United States on a set-off, when it could not have been allowed in an action against them on the subject-matter of the
set-off.
To permit a demand in set-off against the government to be
proceEded on to judgment against it, would be equivalent to
the permission of a suit to be prosecuted against it. And however this may be tolerated between individuals, by a species of
reconvention, when demands in set-off are sought to be recovered, it could not be as against the government except by a
mere evasion, and must be as useless in the end as it would be

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

291

Reeside v. Walker.

derogatory to judicial fairness. A set-off or reconvention is often to be treated as a new suit by the defendant, and the pleadings and judgment are to be made to correspond. (See Louisiana Code of Practice, 374, §§ 371- 377.) In..Perry v. Gerbeau
and Wife, 5 Martin, N. S. 18, the court say, "The claim set
up in the answer was one in reconvention, and too general.
Such demands should have the same certainty as a petition.".
It would present, also, the inconsistency of the officers of a
government issuing precepts against it, and seizing and selling the property under their own charge and protection.
Or it would present the other alternative, of entering a judgment against a party which it could not enforce by execution,
and which none of its officers had been authorized to discharge.
This last consideration is one of peculiar importance in this
proceeding, and in the proper measures to be adopted under
our political and fiscal system, as to a claim like this.
No officer, hiowever high, not even the President, much less
a Secretary of the Treasury or Treasureris empowered to pay
debts of the United States generally, when presented to them.
If,therefore, the petition in this case was allowed so far as to
order the verdict against the United States to be entered on
the books of the Treasury Department; the plaintiff would be
as far from having a claim on the Secretary or Treasurer
to pay it as now.- The difficulty in the way is the want of
any appropriation by Congress to pay this claim. It is a wellknown constitutional provision, that no money can be taken
or drawn from the Treasury except under an appropriation by.
Congress. See Constitution, art. 1, § 9 (1 Stat. at Large, 15).
However much money may be in the Treasury at any one
time, mot a dollar of it can be used in the payment of any
thing not thus previously sanctioned. Any other course
would give to the fiscal officers a most dangerous discretion.
Hence, the petitioner should have presented her claim on the
United States to Congress, and prayed for an appropriation to
pay it. If Congress after that make such an appropriation,
the Treasury can, and doubtless will, discharge the claim without any mandamus. But without such an appropriation it
cannot anl should not be paid by the Treasury, whether the
claim is by a verdict or judgment, or without either, and no
mandamts.s or other remedy lies against any officer of the
Treasury Department, in a case situated like this, where no
appropriation to pay it has been made. The existence of this
other and ordinary mode of redress, by resort to Congress,
may be another reason against a mandamus, as that lies only

292

SUPREME COURT.
Boyd v. Scott et al.

when no other adequate remedy exists. Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch, 62-137; Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 525.
But, independent of this last consideration, which as a remedy may not come within the usual meaning of another remedy, the grounds for the petition are not sufficient, and the
judgment below, dismissing it, must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record fror the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel. On consideration where.
of, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

Ex

PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF EARLY BOYD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
V. WILLIAM SCOTT AND WILLIAM GREENE. - In Errorto the Dis.

trict Court of the United Statesfor the Northern District of Alabama.
A motion on the part of the defendants in error, for a rule upon the plaintiff in error
to file a copy of the record, overruled.

MR. CRITTENDEN, of counsel for the defendants in error, having filed the following certificate, viz.: " The United States of America, Northern District of Alabama.
"In the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Alabama, at Huntsville.
"I, Benjamin T. Moore, Clerk of*the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, at Huntsville, do hereby certify, that at the term of the District Court
aforesaid, begun and held at the court-house in the town of
Huntsville, in said district, on the fourth Monday in November, A. D. 1850, in a certain cause therein pending in said
court, wherein Early Boyd was plaintiff, and William Scott
and William Greene were defendants, judgment was rendered
therein in favor of said defendants against said plaintiff, for
dollars, and
the costs of suit, amounting to the sum of
that from the said judgment the said Early Boyd, on the 29th
day of November, A. D. 1850, prayed and obtained a writ of
error to the then next term of the Supreme Court of the Unit-

