DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

168

Gruner v. The United States.

ind the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de nrvo.

ERICH CHISTTlAx LUDWIG GRUI=R, CLAIMANT OF THE SCHOONER
FAIRY, HEI TACKLE, &C., APPELLANT, v. THE UNITED STATES.
Where a vessel was libelled in the District Court and sold by agreement of parties,
and the proceeds of sale amounted only to $ 850, which was paid into the registry,
this is insuflicient to bring the case within the jurisdiction of this court, although
an agreement by counsel was filed admitting the value of the vessel to be more
than two thousand dollars.
This agreement would be evidence of the value if nothing to the 'contraryappeared
in the record. But the decision of the court would only determine the right to
the proceeds of sale, viz. $850, and the case must therefore be dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
The facts in the case are sufficiently stated in the opinion of
the court.
It was argued by Alr. Sherwood, for the appellant, and .Mr.
Crittenden (Attorney-General), for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The schooner Fairy was seized by the collector of the port of
Galveiston for a violation of the registry acts of the United States,
and libelled in the District Court for the District of Texas.
A few days before she was seized by the collector, she had
been seized by the sheriff of Galveston County upon process
of sequestration issuing from a State court at the instance of
Gruner, the appellant. He appeared in the admiralty court,
and denied that the vessel was liable to forfeiture under the
registry acts; and averred that he had an equitable lien upon
her to the full amount of her value, by reason of certain transactions with a man by the name of Fruh, which are set out at
large in his answer; that he had proceeded to enforce this lien
in the proper court of the State of Texas, and had obtained
process of sequestration against the Fairy, which had been duly
served, and that she was in the custody of the sheriff of Galveston County upon this process when she was seized by the
collector; and he denied that the-District Court had jurisdiction
to proceed against her when she was previously in custody of
the law upon process from the State court.
While the suit was pending in the District Court, a written
agreement was filed between the district attorney and the

164

SUPREME COURT.
Gruner v. The United States.

proctor for the claimant, by which it was stipulated, that, upon
the attorney for the United States procuring an order from the
District Court for the sale of the vessel, and upon a similar
order being obtained from the State court, the vessel should
be sold, and the proceeds paid into the registry of the District
Court of the United States, to abide the ultimate decision of
the suits in the two courts; the rights of neither party to be
prejudiced by the sale. The sale was accordingly ordered; and
the schooner was sold by the marshal for $ 850, and the proceeds paid into the registry. And upon the final hearing of
the case the court condemned the Fairy as forfeited to the
United States, and disallowed the claim of Gruner under the
sequestration from the State court.
There is an agreement in the record signed by the attorneys
of the parties, admitting that the schooner was worth over two
thousand dollars.
This brief statement will show how the question of jurisdiction arises in this court. And as we think the case must be
disposed of upon that question, it is unnecesary to state more
particularly the facts, or the points of law which arose on the
trial, and which are fully discussed in the printed arguments
filed'in the case.
The vessel has been sold by the consent of the parties, and
the proceeds of sale paid into the registry. This sum of money
is the only matter in controversy in this court; and if the decree, of the District Court is affirmed or reversed, the decision
would do nothing more than determine the right to this money;
and the sum paid into the registry is far below the amount
necessary to give jurisdiction to this court.
It is true that there is an admission by the parties, as we
have already stated, that the vessel'was worth more than two
thousand dollars. And this admission would be evidence of
the value where nothing to the contrary appeared in the record. But the consent or agreement of parties cannot give jurisdiction to this court. Its appellate power is regulated and
limited by law. And as it appears on the face of the record
that the sum in controversy is below two thousand dollars, the
appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by c6unsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that this cause be, and the sam is hereby, dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

