522

SUPREME COURT.
Spear v. Place.

on Jonas Butler, his administrator, and that the plaintiff in
error had accepted such service of the citation, moved the court
that the titling .of the case in this court be, David Randon,
Plaintiff in error, v. Jonas Butler, Administrator of Thomas
Toby, deceased, and that the judgment of this court be entered
in behalf of said Jonas Butler. Whereupon it is now here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and the same is
hereby, granted, and that the clerk make the entries accordingly.

ARTHUR SPEAR, CLAIMANT GF THE SCHOONER Lucy ANN AND CARGO,
APPELLANT, V. HENRY PLACE, LIBELLANT, FOR HIMSELF AND OTHERS.
Where the admiralty court decreed that a vessel should pay salvage to the amount
of one fifth of her value, and that value was shown to be $2,600, an appeal to this
court would not lie, for want ofjurisdiction.
It is the amount of salvage, and not of.the vessel, which tests the jurisdiction; the
salvage only being in controversy.
The master could not properly represent.(without special authority) the consignees
of the cargo who had received their respective consignments before the filiIn of
the libel. They lived in the place where the court was held, and ought to havo
represented their own interests.
case the
The master, therefore, cannot appear for them all conjointly, and in this
amount of salvage to be paid by the largest consignee would be only $ 1,136.80.
Neither the salvage upon the vessel or cargo, therefore, is sufficient in amount to
bring the case within the jurisdiction of this court.

This was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the State of Texas.
It was a libel filed on the 22d of December, 1848,by Henry
Place, master of the steamship Globe, for himself and the other
owners of the ship, against the schooner Lucy Ann and cargo,
for salvage.
The return of the marshal to the writ of seizure was as follows :"Received this writ the 22d day of December, 1848, and
executed the same day by seizing the schooner Lucy Ann, her
tackle, apparel, and furniture; and on the same day seized
certain goods, wares, and merchandise, as per bills and bills of
lading hereto attaqhed, and marked No. 1 ,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7, as
furnished by the owners and consignees of said goods, which
said goods I left in the possession of the consignees, first taking
their receipts, to be delivered when called for.
" JAuES H.

By H. B.

CocE, 11Marshal,

MIARTIN,

D. MDarshal."

523

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Spear v. Place.

On the 29th of December, 1848, Spear intervened, claiming
as follows

-

"To the Honorable John C. Watrous, Judge of the District
Court of the United States within and for the District of
Texas.

" And Arthur Spear, of the State of Maine, intervening for
his interest in the schooner Lucy Ann, as well as for the other
owners of said schooner, and for the owners and consignees of
the cargo thereof, and for all whom it may concern; this re.spondent, the said Arthur Spear, being master of said schooner,
and also owner of an interest of about one fourth therein, appears before this honorable court, and claims the said schooner
and her said cargo; and for answer to the libel and complaint
of Henry Place, of New Orleans, in the State of Louisiana,
against the schooner Lucy Ann, her tackle, apparel, and furriiture, and all and singular the goods, wares, and merchandises
now or late on board of said schooner, in a cause of salvage,
civil and maritime, alleges and articulately propounds, as follows," &c., &c.
The case having been dismissed by this court, for the want
,of jurisdiction, it is not necessary to state the circumstances
which gave rise to the claim for salvage.
On the 3d of January, 1849, Norman Hurd and E. P. Hunt
were ordered by the court to appraise the schooner, her tackle,
apparel, and furniture, and also the cargo; who appraised the
vessel, &c., at $ 2,600, and the cargo at $ 21,325.73, divided
amongst'several different owners or consignees as follows :
J. S. Vedder,

.

J. K. Brown, .
.
Perry & Flint,
Perry & Flint, for Leyles & Co.,
.
.
Sydnor & Bone,

.

.

.

.

.
.

.

.

Rice, Adams, & Co., for ace. Sampson & Co.,

6,698.00
92.89
100.42
6.07
9,113.34

615.21

Rice, Adams, & Co., for their own ace.,

4,566.11

Rice, Adams, & Co., for Rice & Nichols,

1,133.69
$21.325.73

On the 30th of January, 1849, the District Court passea
the following decree:"This cause having been heard by the court upon the
pleadings and proofs, and the court being now sufficiently advised in the premises, and it appearing to the satisfaction of
the court that the schooner Lucy Ann and cargo, now before
the-court libelled against in this cause are of the value of

SUPREME COURT.
Spear v. Place.

$ 23,925.73, to wit, said schooner being of the value of
2,600, and said cargo of the value of $ 21,325.73, and the
same was, on the 18th day of December, 1848, saved from
entire loss and destruction by means of assistance rendered by
the steamship Globe, whereof Henry Place was mdster, and
Charles Morgan, John T. Wright, Henry Morgan, and C.
Harris, owners; it is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by the court, that the libellants, Henry Place, Charles Morgan,
John T. Wright, Henry Morgan, and C. Harris, have and recover in full satisfaction for their salvage the one fifth part
of the aforesaid gross amount of the aforesaid value of said
schooner and cargo, to wit, the sum of $ 4,785.14, and that
said schooner and cargo be, and the same are hereby, charged
with and subjected to the payment of said amount of salvage;
the said schooner to be charged with the payment of the sum
of $ 520 thereof, and the said cargo to be charged with the
payment of the sum of $ 4,265.14 thereof. And it is further
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that'said schooner Lucy Ann,
her tackle, apparel, and furniture, be condemned, and that the
same be sold by the marshal of this district for the payment
of said sum of $ 520 so assessed thereon as aforesaid, and
that said cargo be condemned, and that the same be sold by
the marshal of this district, for the payment of said sum of
$ 4,265.14 so assessed as aforesaid, and that the proceeds of
said schooner and cargo be brought into court to abide the
further order of this court herein. And it is further ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that said sales take place on the 24th
day of February, 1849, after giving ten days' notice of the time
and place of sale, and that all costs and charges in this cause
be taxed upon and paid out of the balance of the proceeds of
said schooner and cargo after the payment of the aforesaid
amount of salvage, unless Arthur Spear, the respondent, shall
immediately pay the same into court.
"By agreement of the libellants in this cause, by their proctors, made in open court, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by the court, that the sum of $ 4,785.14, decreed to be paid to
the libellants in said cause, be distributed, apportioned, and
paid to the libellants in proportions as follows, to wit, to
Henry Place, the master of the steamship Globe, the sum of
$ 250, and to Charles Morgan, John T. Wright, Henry
Morgan, and C. Harris, the owners of the steamship Globe,
the sum of $ 4,535.14.
From this decree the claimant appealed to this court.
Afterwards the District Court allowed the vessel and cargo
to be release'd, upon payment into court of the amount decreed
for salvage and costs.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

5

Spear v. Place.

It was argued by 31r. Walker, for the appellants, and Mr.
Coxe, for the appellee.
1Mr. Coxe raised the question of jurisdiction as follows.
So far as.regards the cargo, the interests of the owners are
not properly represented, as has been intimated; as the vessel
was bound to Galveston, the presumption is, that the owners
or consignees were there.
The principle of law applicable in such case is, that where
the principal is without the country, or resides at a great distance from the court,.the admission'of a claim and test affidavit
by his agent is the common course of the admiralty; but
where the principal is within a reasonable distance, something
more than a formal affidavit is expected; at least a suppletory
oath of the principal should be tendered. 9 Cranch, 244.' See
also Dunlap's Adm. Pr. 161, 162; The Sally, 1 Gallis. 401;
The St. Lawrence, 1 Gallis. 467.
Captain Spear, then, if entitled to make any claim in the
case, could only represent the vessel, and had no title whatever
to represent the cargo ; and as the decree of thu District Court
only affected the vessel to the amount of $ 520, the amount in
controversy is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.
Stratton v. Jarvis, 8 Peters, 4; The Warren, 6 Peters, 143; Act
of March 3, 1803, c. 40 (2 Stat. at Large, 244).
The appraisement shows that the cargo belonged to several
parties, and that there were also several consignees. These
interests were entirely distinct; no one represented a sufficient
amount to entitle him to appeal to this court. Stratton v.
Jarvis, 8 Peters, 4.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
A libel was filed in the District Court of Texas, December
22d, 1848, by Place, as. master of the steamship Globe, and
four others, as owners. It was in rem against the schooner
Lucy Ann, her tackle and cargo, on a claim for salvage.
The material averments were, that the schooner on the
18th of that month, in a fog, got ashore -on the north breakers of the bar at the entrance of the port of Galveston; that
the libellant, seeing her danger and signals of distress, assisted in getting her off, and saving the vessel and cargo; and
the libel then prayed that all persons interested therein be notified to appear and show cause why the libellants should not
have a decree for such money or such proportion of the property saved as is a just compensation for their salvage services.
On the same day a writ of seizure issued against the vessel
ard cargo, wherever found, and the officer the same day re-

526

SUPREME COURT.
Spear v. Place.

turned, that he had seized the vessel; but after taking the cargo,
in the hands of seven different owners and consignees, in various and independent proportions, had left it there, on receiving
their receipts therefor.
On the 29th of December, at the time notified, Spear, the
.master and part owner of the schooner, appeared professedly
ibehalf of himself and other owners of both vessel and cargo,
aid denied most of the allegations in the libel, and any rightful
claim by the plaintifi for salvage, and prayed for judgment
and cost in his own behalf.
It was shown at the trial, by the appraisement and evidence,
that the schooner was worth $2,600 aid the cargo $ 21,325.73,
and after a full hearing of the witnesses the salvage decreed
by the court was one fifth of the value, being $ 520 on the
schooner, and $ 4,265.14 on the cargo.
From this decree Spear entered an appeal; and the first question presented is whether this court has jurisdiction to sustain t.
In order to sustain it, the decree must be of the value of
$ 2,000, against his own interests, or those of some persons he
can properly represent here.
But his own private interests extend only to about one
fourth of the vessel, charged with a salvage of less than $ 200;
and if he may be considered as properly acting for ihe other
and absent part owners, the decree against the whole vessel
is but $ 520, or $ 1,480 less than is necessary to confer on
us jurisdiction in this class of cases.
It is the amount of salvage, if any, which is in controversy,
and which tests the jurisdiction, and not the value of the vessel
or cargo. Wilson v. Daniel, 3 Dallas, 401.
The next inquiry is, whether the salvage on the vessel can
be made sufficient to give jurisdiction, by adding any interest
of the master in the cargo affected by the decree.
But he does not claim, nor appear to have ownied, any part
of the cargo.
Nor could he properly, as mere master of the vessel, represent
or.act for any part of the cargo after it was delivered to the consignecs, they residing near, as was the case in this intance, at
the time of his appearance as well as at the time of his appeal.
Had the salvage against the cargo been claimed at a distance
from the owners or consignees, and while it was in his custody
& control, he might ex officio possess some power, and be liable
The
to sorne duty, in watching over it, in their absence.
Schooner Adeline, 9 Cranch, 286. But when, as here, his possession .and control had entirely ceased, and the consignees
lived in the same city where the court vas held, and were in
full charge of the cargo, no official connection continued, and
no other is set up or pretended to be proved.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

527

Spear v. Place.

In strict law, then, it does not seem competent for him to
prosecute any appeal in their behalf, separately or in conjunction
with his own interests, without showing some special authority
from them for that purpose. Several precedents fully sustain
this view.
Thus, in the case of the Schooner Sally and Cargo, 1 Gallis.
402, it is laid down, thiat, "in all cases where it is practicable, it is the duty of the owners to claim in person, or at
least to annex their own affidavit to the special facts btated in
support of the claim."
Especially is such the case where the owners or consignees
are within the jurisdiction of the court; as it is so easy to do
it, if desiring any interference; and as, by the master appearing
and appealing without their authority, they might be.involved
in litigation and costs against their wishes.' The Ship St. Lawrence and Cargo, 1 Gallis. 469; Dunlap's Adm. Pr. 161.
But supposing it were too late, after allowing his appearance
below in their behalf, to object to his further prosecution of the
claim by an appeal, still the insufficiency of the amqunt of any
one decree, or of any'one class of interests in any one person
or firm, to justify our jurisdiction, is not removed.
In case of an individual claiming for others in admiralty,
the rights of each person or firm represented are 6upposed to
be contained or covered in separate decrees, or separate portion's
of one decree, as each owns separately, and, if not thus considered, one may have to pay, or be made to suffer, for another.
Oliver et al. v. Alexander et al., 6 Peters, 143; Stratton v. Jarvis
et al., 8 Peters, 11.
Here the decree relating to the schooner was against persons,
not. appearing to be owners of atly part of the cargo, and, as
before shown, was entirely inadequate in amount to give us
jurisdiction.
The considnees of the cargo were likewise seven persons or
firms, in distinct or separate lots of goods, valued from about
100 in some to the highest in one case of $ 5,678:
There does not appear to have been any joint interest among
them; and though the decree below is inartificial, yet. each
should pay and be ordered to pay the salvage on his own goods,
and no others, as much as if each had in person put in a separate claim. 6 Peters, 150; 8 Peters, 11.
" In such a case," says Justice Story, "though the original
libel is against the whole property joinly, yet it is severd by
the several claims; and no appeal lies by either party, unless in
regard to a claim exceeding a sum of $ 2,000 in value. This
has been the-long and settled practice in the admiralty courts
of this country." 6 Peters, 150..

SUPREME COURT.

528

Pennsylvania.v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et aL

The salvage on the largest claim would be only $ 1,136.80,
and would have to be paid by J. S. Vedder, the consignee, in
order to prevent a sale of his part of the cargo. From its being
under $ 2,000, as we before said, he could not appeal, nor any
other person for him, so as to confer jurisdiction on us.
- It follows, then, that, as no one person, either in his own right
or in the right of some other person or firm, and as no one lot
of the goods, or owner of the vessel, was subject by the decree
to pay as much as $ 2,000 in salvage, the appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Were this result more doubtful, we should feel averse to sustain jurisdiction, unless clearly bound to, in a class of appeals
like this, not entitled to favor, unless, in the language of Chief
Justice Marshall in The Sibyl, 4 Wheaton, 98, "it manifestly
appeared that some important error had been committed."
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the 'transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United Stateg for the
District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here.ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, COIPLAINANT, v. THE WHEELING AND
BELMONT BRIDGE CoIIPANY, WDI. OrlTISAN, AND GEORGE CRAFT.
-Bill

in Ckancery.

A day assigned for the argument, at the next term, of a cause upon the original
docket of this ,court.

ORDERED, that the time for taking testimony in the above
cause by the commissioner appointed by the order entered
29th May, 1850, and for making the report to this court
therein provided for, be extended till the further order of the
court: and, that the authority to take testimony in said cause
since the first day of the present term be, and the same is

hereby, confirmed.
And now comes the complainant by her counsel, and moves
the court to assign a day daring the present term of this court
for a final heariig uponthe bill, answers, exhibits, testimony,
and comt~iissib6er's report in this case.
C. DARRAGH, Attorney- General of Pennsjilvania.

