DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

669

Bennett v. Butterworth.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court that the
decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed and annulled, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with
directions to dismiss the petition of the claimants.

JouN H. BENNETT,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SA IUEL

F.

BUTTERWORTH.

In Texas, the common law has been adopted, but the forms and rules of pleading
in common law cases have not; and although the forms of proceedings and practice in the State courts have been adopted in the District Court of the United
States, yet such adoption must not be understood as confounding the principles of
law and equity; nor as authorizing legal and equitable claims to be blended together
in one suit.
The Constitution of the United States has recognized the distinction between law
and equity, and it must be observed in the federal courts, although there is no
distinction between them by the laws of Texas.
Where a petition was filed claiming certain negroes, to whom the defendant set up a
title as being his own property, and the jury brought in a verdict awarding a sum
of money to the plaintiff, which was released, and then the court gave judgment
that the plaintiff should recover the negroes, these proceedings were irregular, and.
the judgment must be reversed.
They cannot be assimilated to proceedings in chancery, or treated as such by this
court. There is nothing like a bill or answer, as prescribed by the rules of this court,
nor any statement of the evidence upon which the judgment could be revised.
The casemust, therefore, be considered as a-case at law, the rules of which require
that the verdict must find the matter in issue between the parties, and the judgment must follow the verdict.
Here neither was the ee, and the errors being patent upon the records, the judgment i'. open to revision in this court, without any motion in arrest of judgment
being made or exception taken in the court below.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the District of Texas.
In 1848, Buttenvorti filed the following petition against
Bennett :"To the Honorable J. C. Watrous, Judge of Lhe District Court
of the United States for the District of the State of Texas,
and which court has also Circuit Court powers.
"The petition of Samuel F. Butterworth, who is a citizen of
the State of New York, against John H. Bennett, who is a citizen of the State of Texas, would respectfully represent unto

670

SUPREME

COURT.

Bennett v. Butterworth.

your honor, that heretofore, viz. on the
day of March, 1846,
at
to wit, in the district aforesaid, he, your petitioner, was
lawfully seized and possessed of four negroes, slaves for life,
whose names and descriptions are as follows, viz.: Billy, a negro
man, of a dark complexion, aged about twelve years, of the value
of five hundred dollars; Lindsey, a negro man, of a dark complexion, aged twenty-two years, and of the value of one thousand dollars; Betsy, a mulatto woman, of a light complexion,
aged about thirty years, and of the value of eight hundred dollars; and Alexander, a boy of a very light complexion, aged
about four years, and of four hundred dollars value, of his own
property. And being so possessed, your petitioner, afterwards,
to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, in the district aforesaid,
casually lost the same out of his possession, and the same,
afterwards, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, in the district aforesaid, came to the possession of the defeidant by find
ing. And your petitioner charges, that the said defendant,
well knowing the said negro slaves to be the property of your
petitioner, and of right to belong and appertain to him, hath not
as yet delivered the above-described negroes; or any or either
of them, although often requested so to do, to your petitioner;
but hath hitherto wholly iefused so to do, and hath detained,
and still doth detain, the same from your petitioner, who says
he has received damages, by reason of the detention of the
slaves aforesaid, of five thousand dollars.
"In consideration of the premises, your petitioner prays your
honor to grant him a summons,'directed to the marshal of this
district, and commanding him to summon the said defendant
to be and appear at the next term of this court, to be held foe
this district, at the city of Galveston, on the first Monday in
February next, then and there to answer the allegations contained in this petition; and that, upon the trial of the cause,
your petitioner may have a judgment in specie for the said
negroes, together with damages for the detention of the same,
and also the costs of suit; and such other and further relief
grant in the premises as shall be in accordance with right and
justice; and, as in duty bound, he will ever pray, &c.
"SAMUEL

YERGER,

Attorney for Petitioner."

To this petition the defendant demurred, pleaded not guilty,
and filed two special pleas. The demurrer was afterwards
overruled, and the tw6 special pleas stricken out.
In June, 1849, the defendant filed an amended answer, consisting of two special pleas. The second was demurred to by
the plaintiff, and the demurrer sustained; -,othat there remained
only the first plea, to which the plaintiff also demurred, but

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

671.

Bennett v. Butterworth.

his demurrer was overruled, and he then replied.- The case
then went to trial upon this plea and general replication.
These pleadings have been stated thus particularly in order to
ascertain what was the issue upon which the paies went to
trial.
The plea of the defendant set up a title to the slaves in
himself; averring that a dispute had existed between Butterworth and one John D. Amis and one Junius Amis, which had
been left to arbitration ; that the referees had decided, amongst
other things, that Butterworth should transfer certain negroes
to Amis; that Butterworth delivered the negroes, which were
those in question; that Amis sold the negroes to him, Bennett;
and the plea concluded in this way:"Wherefore the said John H1. Bennett -says the said four
negroes are his property, and not the property of the said Butterworth, and of this he puts himself upon the country."
To this plea Butterwerth replied, that all the parties to the
submission and decision in the plea set out did not assent and
agreo to the same, and that Butterworth did not sell, convey,
and deliver the negroes in the petition mentioned in compliance with the terms, or any of the terms, of the said decision.
Upon these allegations a jury was sworn, who found the following verdict:"We, the jury, find for the plaintiff twelve hundred dollars,
the value of the four negro slaves in suit, with six and a quarter cents damages.
"1C. C..HERBERT, Foreman."
And thereupon the plaintiff, by his attorney, in open court,
released the said judgment for twelve hundred dollars as aforesaid. It is therefore considered by the court, that the plaintiff
recover of the defendant the negro man Lindsey, the negro
woman Betsy and her child, and the negro boy .Billy, the
negro slaves in the petition of plaintiff mentioned, and also six
and a fourth cents, the damages by the jurors aforesaid assessed, and also his costs about his suit in this behalf expended,
And thereafter, to wit, on the 25th day of August, 1849,
the following order was made in said suit, to wit: "SAMUEL F. BUTTERWORTH V. J. H. BENNETT.
"On this day came on for hearing, by consenf of parties, the
motion filed by defendant's counsel, to set aside the verdict, for
reasons therein set forth; after argument heard, the court being
sufficiently advised, it is ordered that the motion be overruled.'
And afterwards, to wit, on the 25th day of August, 1849,
the following order was made, to wit: -

SUPREME COURT.

672

Bennett v. Butterworth.
"SAMUEL

F.

BUTTERWORTH V. J. H.

BENNETT.

"The counsel of defendant in this cause tendered his bill of
exception to the opinion of the court herein, which was signed
by the judge, and ordered to be filed of record; which bill of
exceptions is in the words following, to wit: " United States District Court, District of Texas, Spring
Term, 1849.
"SAMUEL

F.

BUTTERWORTH V. JOHN

H.

BENNETT.

" Be it remembered, that on this day, the 25th of August,
1849, the following judgment was rendered in the above-named
cause, to wit: On this day came the parties, by their attorneys, and thereupon the demurrer of defendant to plaintiff's
petition. came on, and was argued, and because it seems to the
court that the law is for the plaintiff, it is considered by the
court that the demurrer be overruled. And the plaintiff's demurrer to defendant's first and second plea in his amended
answer at the present term also came on, and was argued; and
because it seems to the court that on the said first plea the law
is for the defendant, it is considered by the court that the demurrer to the 'said first plea be overruled; and the plaintiff
thereupon replied to said first plea. And because the law on
said second plea is for the plaintiff, it is considered that said
demurrer to said plea be sustained.
"And upon motion of plaintiff, by his attorney, it is ordered
that the second and third pleas filed in defendant's answer at a
former term be stricken out.
"And thereupon came a jury of good and lawful men, to wit,
William Alexander, Daniel Marston, Alexander Moore, John
Church, William B. Gayle, Elisha B. Cogswell, C. C. Herbert,
James G. Sheppard, Ephraim McLean, A. C. Crawford, William G. Davis, and William 1I. Sergeant, who, being elected,
tried, and sworn well and truly to try the issue joined, after
some. time returned into court the following verdict, to wit:
'.We, the jury, find for the plaintiff twelve hundred dollars, the
value of the four negro slaves in suit, with six and a: quarter
cents damages. C. C. Herbert, foreman.' And thereupon the
plaintiff, by his attorney, in open court, released the said judgment for twelve hundred dollars, as aforesaid. It is therefore
considered by the court, that the plaintiff recover of the defendant the negro man Lindsey, the negro woman Betsy and her
child, and the negro boy-Billy, the negro slaves in the petition
of, plaintiff mentioned, and also six and a fourth cents, the
damages by the jurors aforesaid assessed, and also his costs
about his suit in this behalf expended.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

673

Bennett v. Butterworth.

" To the entry of said judgment the defendant objects, on the
ground that the same is not in accordance with the verdict of
the jury; but the objection was by the court overruled. The
said verdict is in words and figures as follows: -''We, the
jury, find for the plaintiff twelve hundred dollars, the value
of the four negro slaves in the suit, with six and a quarter
cents damages.' And the motion of the defendant to set
aside said verdict, and foc a new trial having been heard,
was by the court overruled. To which opinion of the court, as
well in causing said judgment to be sustained as in refusing
to set aside said verdict, th6 defendant excepts, and tenders
this his bill of exceptions, which is signed, sealed, and made a
JOHN C. WATROUS."
part of the record.
Upon this exception, the case came up to this court, and
was argued by 31r. Johnsom and ffdr. Harris,for the plaintiff in
error, and AMr. Walker and 1t. Volney Howard, for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended, I. That the verdict was illegal, and ought to have been set
aside.
1. It will be'seen, by reference to the plaintiff's petition,particularly to the prayer thereof, -that this suit was brought
for the recovery of the slaves "in specie," (not for the recovery of
their value,) and for damages for their unlawful detention.
The important issue, viz. whether the right of property was in
the plaintiff or the defendant, was, in the verdict of the jury,
entirely omitted. See Coffin v. Jones, 11 Pick. 45.
2. It did not embrace all the issues, which it should have
done. See Crouch v. Martin, 3 Blackford, 256; Patterson v.
t. States, 2 Wheat. 223; Jewett v. Davis, 6 N. Hamp. 518.
3. It should have found the value of each of the slaves separately.
II. That the jihdgment was illegal, because it was not responsive to the verdict.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended, that
This was a suit by petition, under the statute laws of Texas,
for four slaves, claimed by plaiptiff below, and damages for illegal detention. The suit was for the specific slaves, and not for
their value. The issue joined was as to the ownership of the
slaves; which issue thejury, in fact, found for the plaintiff. If
there be any error in form, it is cured by the verdict, and the
amendment laws of Texas. Act of Texas, 1846, p. 202, § 7;
p. 365, § 5; p.;3 92 , § 104; p.-3 9 3 , § 115; pp. 396, 397, §§ 132, 133.
57
VOL. XI.

674

SUPREME COURT.
Bennett v. Butterworth.

There is no distinction in Texas between courts or suits at
law or in equity. In the -case of slaves, from their peculiar
character as house-servants, or from their necessary connection
with plantations, a bill in equity may be filed to compel their
delivery. Murphy v. Clark, 1 Smedes & Marsh. 221. An action lies in Texas for the specific slaves claimed, in which a
statement of the facts by petition is all that is required.
This case is not an action of detinue, but more closely resembles a replevin, which is not confined to cases of distress
for rent. 1 Chitty's Plead. 161, 162, 164.
The release of the damages may have deprived the plaintiff
of his alternate right to the. money, but the waiver of that alternate right could not deprive the, plaintiff of his remedy under
the judgment for the specific thing.
The error, if any, should have been met by a motion below
in arrest of judgment; whereas the motion (under which the
exception was taken) was to set aside the verdict, which was
substantially a motion for a new trial, the refusal of which furnishes no ground for a writ of error.
The action being by petition, in the nature of a bill in
equity, for the specific delivery of the slaves, and the jury having found substantially the right of property to be in the plaintiff; all errors of form may be disregarded, and this court may
enter now such judgment as should have been entered in the
court below for the plaintiff.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
The common law has been adopted in Texas, but the forms
and rules of pleading in common law cases have been abolished, and the parties are at liberty to. set out their respective
claims and defences in any form that will bring them before
the court. And as there is no distinction in its courts between
cases at law and equity, it has been insisted in this case, on
behalf of the defendant in error, that this court may regard the
plaintiff's petition either as a declaration at law or as a bill in
equity.
Whatever may be the laws of Texas in this respect, they do
not govern the proceedings in the courts of the United States.
And although the forms of proceedings and practice in the
State courts have been adopted in the District Court, yet the
adoption of the State practice must not be understood as confounding the principles of law and equity, nor as authorizing
legal and equitable claims to be blended together in one suit.
The Constitution of the Uilited States, in creating and defining

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

675

Bennett v. Butterworth.

the judicial power of the general government, establishes this
distinction between law and equity; and a party who claims
a legal title must proceed at law, and may undoubtedly pro"ceed according to the forms of practice in such cases in the
State court. But if the. ciaim is an equitable one, he must
proceed according to rules which this court has prescribed (under the authority of the act of August 28d, 1842), regulating
proceedings in equity in the courts of the United States.
There is nothing in these proceedings which resembles a bill
or answer in equity according to the rules prescribed by this
court, nor any evidence stated upon which a decree in equity
could be revised in an appellate court. Nor was any equitable
title set up by Butterworth, the plaintiff in the court below.
He claimed in his petition a legal title to the negroes, which
the defendant denied, insisting that he himself was the legal
owner. It was a suit at law to try a legal title.
The defendant (Bennett) in his plea or answer claimed under an award to which Butterworth and a certain Junius Amis
and a certain John D. Amis were parties; and averred that, in
execution of this award, the said negroes had been delivered
by Butterworth to John D. Amis as his property, and by him
afterwards transferred to Bennett for a valuable consideration.
To this plea Butterworth replied, that all the parties to the
submission and decision in the plea set out did not assent and
agree to the same, and that Butterworth did not sell, convey,
and deliver the negroes in the petition mentioned, in compliance with the terms, or any of the terms, of the said decision.
And upon these allegations a jury was sworn, who found for
Butterworth (the plaintiff in the court below) in the following
words: "We, the jury, find for the plaintiff twelve hundred
dollars, the value of the four negro slaves in suit, with six and
a quarter cents damages."
And the record proceeds to state, that thereupon the plaintiff
(Butterworth), by his attorney, in open court, released the Said
judgment for $ 1,200 ; and thereupon the court adjudged that
he recover of the defendant the four negroes mentioned in his
petition, and the six and a quarter cents assessed by the jury,
and his costs.
It does not appear whether any direction to the jury, as to
the law of the case, was asked for by either of the parties, or
given by the court; we have nothing but the pleadings, confised and loose as they are, and the verdict and the jidgment.
Now if any thing is settled in proceedings at law where a
jury is impanelled to'try the facts, it is, that the verdict must
find the matter in issue between the parties, and the judgment
of the court must conform to and follow the verdict.

676

SUPREME COURT.
Bennett v. Butterworth.

But here the matter in issue was the property in these negroes, and the verdict does not find that they are the property
of the plaintiff or the defendant, but finds for the plaintiff their
value, which was not in issue. It ought, therefore, to have
been set aside upon the motion of either party, as no judgment
could lawfully be entered upon it. It was a verdict'for a matter different from that which they were impanelled to try.
In the next place, if any judgnent could have been rendered
on the verdict, it ought to haveL been a judgment for the money
found by the jury. For the trial of facts by a jury would be
of very little value, if, upon a verdict for money to a certain
amount, the court could infer that the jury intended to find
something else, and give a judgment for property instead of
money. And lastly, when the plaintiff, in the District Court,
released the $ 1,200 found by the jury, there was nothing of
the verdict remaining, upon which the court could act or give
judgment for either party, but the six and a quarter cents damages which the jury found in addition to the value.
The judgment is evidently erroneous, and must be reversed.
And 'as these errors are patent upon the record, they are open
to revision here, without any motion in arrest of judgment, or
exception taken in the District Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consider:
ation whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District
Court, with directions to award a venirefaciasde novo.

