LAWRENCE v. SHAW.

, 245

Opinion of the Court.

LAWRENCE, GUARDIAN, v. SHAW ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 549.

Argued February 12, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

Bank credits of a veteran of the World War, or his guardian, which
do not represent or flow from his investments, but result from
the deposit of the warrants or checks received from the Government in payment of benefits, are exempted from local taxation by
the World War Veterans' Act, § 22, and the Act of August 12,
1935, §§ 3 and 5, when such deposits are made in the ordinary
manner, so that the proceeds of collection are subject to draft
upon demand for the veteran's use. Trotter v. Tennessee,, 290
U. S. 354, distinguished. P: 248.
210 N. C. 352; 186 S. E. 504, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

299 U. S. 537, to review the affirmance of

a judgment against Lawrence in a proceeding to recover
a sum paid, under protest, as a tax.
Mr. John E. Benton, with whom Mr. Lloyd J.
Lawrence was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. D. Boone for respondents.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The controversy in this case relates to the liability
to local taxation of certain bank deposits made by the
petitioner as guardian of an incompetent veteran of the
World War. Immunity was claimed under the federal
statutes. World War- Veterans Act, 1924, § 22,1 43 Stat.
'Section 22 ptovides:
"Sec. 22. That the compensation, insurance, and maintenance and
support allowance payable under Titles II, III, and IV, respectively,
shall not be assignable; shall not be subject to the claims of creditors
of any person to whom an award is made under Titles II, III, or IV;
and shall be exempt from all taxation: Provided, That such compen-

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

606, 613, 38 U. S. C. 454; Act of August 12, 1935, §§ 3
and 5,2 49 Stat. 607, 609. The Supreme. Court of North
Carolina denied the immunity (210 N. C. 352; 186
S. E. 504) and this Court granted a writ of certiorari,
January 4, 1937.
The controversy was submitted to the state court
upon an agreed case. It appeared that petitioner was
appointed guardian in May, 1929, and that the veteran
then owned no property other than claims against the
United States for unpaid compensation and insurance.
The tax date in North Carolina for property taxation is
April 1st. In 1.930 the guardian listed for taxation the
property of his ward but the tax paid was refunded under
a ruling of the Attorney General of the State, and in
consequence no property of the ward was listed and no
tax was paid in the subsequent years. In October, 1935,
sation, insurance, and maintenance and support allowance shall be
subject to any claims which the United States may have, under
Titles II, III, IV, and V, against the person on whose account the
compensation, insurance, or maintenance and support allowance is
payable. ..."
'Sections 3 and 5 of the Act of 1935 provide:
"See. 3. Payments of benefits due or to become due shall not be
assignable, and such payments made to, or on account of, a beneficiary under any of the laws relating to veterans shall be exempt
from taxation, shall be exempt from the claims of creditors, and
shall not be liable to attachment, levy, or seizure by or under any
legal or equitable process whatever, either before or after receipt by
the beneficiary. Such provisions shall not attach to claims of the
United States arising under such laws nor shall the exemption herein
contained as to taxation extend to any property purchased in part
or wholly out of such payments. Section 4747 of the Revised Statutes and section 22 of the World War Veterans' Act, 1924; are
hereby repealed, and all other Acts inconsistent herewith are hereby
modified accordingly. . . "
"Sec. 5. That this Act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage, but the provisions hereof shall apply to payments'
made heretofore under any of the Acts mentioned herein."

LAWRENCE v. SHAW.
245

Opinion of the Court.

however, the tax officials assessed the ward's property for

each of the years 1931 to 1935, inclusive.

The property

consisted of deposits in banks and real estate loans. No
question is raised by the petitioner with respect to the
taxability of the latter. See Trotter v. Tennessee, 290
U. S. 354.
The agreed case showed the bank deposits as they
stood on April 1st of each year.8 It does not appear when

the amounts making up these annual balances had been
deposited or whether there was any special agreement
relating to them. They are scheduled as "deposits in

bank," without more. The stipulation states that they
"represented and, in fact, were the collections from warrants or checks drawn and issued by the United States
Government in payment of compensation and insurance"

due to the ward, that these warrants or checks were de-

posited by the guardian and credited in his bank account,
and that the items assessed were "the unexpended and

uninvested balances," in the hands of the guardian, of

the payments thus made by the Government.'

Peti-

tioner paid the taxes under protest and demanded re-

fund which was refused.
8 They

were $5787.72 in 1931, $3868.42 in 1932, $3704.76 in 1933,

$987.48 in 1934, and $2730.93 in 1935.
'The paragraph of the agreed case upon this point is as follows:
"That each of the said items set out and shown in paragraph 16
as 'Deposits in Banks,' for ,each of said years, represented and, in
fact, were the collections from warrants or checks drawn and issued
by the United States Government in payment of Compensation and
Insurance due by it to plaintiff's ward, which said warrants or checks
were deposited by plaintiff in such depositories and credited by them
in the plaintiff's account as guardian aforesaid; and the amounts
of said assessments and levies made up by said defendants on the
items aforesaid, and shown in said paragraph, represented-and were,
in fact, the .unexpended and uninvested balances in the hands of
the said guardian of payments aforesaid by the U. S. Government,
of warrants or checks issued by it for compensation and insurance
due by it to the said veteran."

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

We are not concerned with the questions submitted to
The state court upon the agreed case so far as they related to the authority of officials under the state law to
impose the tax in 1935 for the preceding years. The
present contention is presented by the answer to the first
question which was as follows:
"Where a guardian of a World War Veteran receives
from the Veterans' Bureau of the United States Government, warrants or checks issued by said Government
in payment of adjusted compensation or insurance due
the guardian's ward, and such warrants or checks are deposited by the guardian in a depository, collected by it,
and the proceeds are credited in the guardian's account
carried in such depository, are such deposits subject to
taxation by county or municipal authorities?"
The state court answered this question in the affirmative, denying the federal right asserted.
In Trotter v. Tennessee, supra, we considered the provision of § 22 of the World War Veterans' Act, 1924,'
in relation to investments by the guardian of an incompetent veteran of the moneys received from the Government for compensation and insurance. We held that
land purchased by the guardian with such moneys was
not exempt. We said: "The statute speaks of 'compensation, insurance, and maintenance and support allowance payable' to the veteran, and declares that these
shall be exempt. We see no token of a purpose to extend a like immunity to permanent investments or the
fruits of business enterprises. Veterans who choose to
trade in land or in merchandise, in bonds or in shares of
stock, must pay their tribute to the State." Id., pp. 356,
357.
Having no doubt that the moneys payable by the Government to the veteran Were exempt until they came
, 'See Note 1.

LAWRENCE v. SHAW.
245

.249

Opinion of the Court.

into his hands or those of his guardian, we left the qluestion open "whether the exemption remained in force
while they continued in those hands or on deposit in a
bank." The World War Veterans' Act, 1924, provided
that the compensation and insurance allowances should
be "exempt from all taxation." The Act of 1935 6 is more
specific, providing that the payments shall be exempt
from taxation and shall not be liable to process "either
before or after receipt by the beneficiary." There was
added the qualification that the exemption should not
extend "to any property purchased in part or wholly out
of such payments." This more detailed provision was
substituted for that of the earlier Act and was expressly
made applicable to payments theretofore made. We
think it clear that the provision of the later Act was intended to clarify the former rather' than to change its
import and it was with that purpose that it was made
retroactive.!
The state court found no distinction with respect to
taxability "between stocks and bonds, and notes and
bank deposits and other solvent credits." Amplifying
this position, counsel for respondent at this bar, while
conceding that the warrants or checks issued by the Government would be exempt, and that if they were cashed
the moneys thus received would likewise be exempt until
they were invested, contended that if the guardian instead of cashing the warrants or checks deposited them in
bank, the resulting bank credits would be taxable. We
think that this contention is inadmissible. Congress has
declared that the payments of benefits by the Government shall be exempt not only before but "after receipt
by the beneficiary." We cannot conceive that it was the
intent of Congress that the veteran should lose the bene'See Note 2.
'See report of the Committee on Finance of the Senate, Sen. Rep.
No. 1072, 74th Cdng., 1st Sess.

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

fit of this immunity, which would attach to the moneys in
his hands, by depositing the government warrants or
checks in bank to be collected and credited in the usual
manner. These payments are intended primarily for the
maintenance and support of the veteran. To that end
neither he nor his guardian is obliged to keep the moneys
on his person or under his roof. As the immunity from
taxation is continued after the payments are received,
the usual methods of receipt must be deemed available
so that the amounts paid by the Government may be
properly safeguarded and used as the needs of the veteran may require.
The provision of the Act of 1935 that the exemption
should not apply to property purchased out of the
moneys received from the Government shows the intent
to deny exemption to investments, as was ruled in the
Trotter case. It is of course true that deposits in bank
may be made under a special agreement by which the deposits assume the character of investments and would
lose immunity accordingly. No such agreement is shown
here. Nor are the bank balances shown to be the proceeds of investments. They are stipulated to be "uninvested balances" of the government payments. Some
reference was made at the bar to the possible effect of an
allowance of interest upon bank deposits. It does not
appear that there was such an allowance in this instance
and we do not suggest that a mere allowance of interest
upon deposits would be enough to destroy an immunity
where it would otherwise attach. We hold that the immunity from taxation does attach to bank credits of the
veteran or his guardian which do not represent or flow
from his investments but result from the deposit of the
warrants or checks received from the Government when
such deposits are made in the ordinary manner so that
the proceeds of the collection are subject to draft upon
demand for the veteran's use. In order to carry out the

SUMI v. YOUNG.
245

Counsel for Parties.

intent of the statute, the avails of the government Warrants or checks must be deemed exempt until they are
expended or invested.
The answer by the state court is broad enough to
cover bank deposits of that sort and we consider the ruling in that application to be contrary to the federal statute. The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not'inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
SUMI v. -OUNG.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 406. Argued February 3, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.
1. An order of the District Court for Alaska involving no statute or
treaty of the United States' nor any authority exercised thereunder,
npr any monetary value in excess of $1,000.00, is not appealable to
the Circuit Court of Appeals udlrr § 128, Jud. Code, as amended
by the Act of Februar '".r, 1925, nor under § 943 of the Act of
June 6, 1900, the Alaska Code, Compiled Laws of Alaska (1933),
§ 4574. P. 252.
2. Provisidns of the Alaska Civil Code are not laws of the United
States within the intendment of § 128, Jud. Code. They are
special or local laws designed to meet conditions peculiar to that
Territory. P. 253.

83 F. (2d) 752, affirmed.

299 U. S. 534, to review a judgment dismissing an appeal from a probate order made by the
District Court in Alaska.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Herman Weinberger, with whom Mr. Louis K.
Pratt was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Cecil H. Clegg, with whom Mr. Robert W.
Jennings was on the brief, subnirtted for respondent.

