ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO. v. U. S.

139

Syllabus.

ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO., INC. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 307.

Argued January 15, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. An order of the Secretary of Commerce requiring a steamship
company to file a copy or summary of its books and records for
a specified period, which should show each commodity carried
from the United States to a foreign country, with point of shipment, point of destination, and rate charged or collected, the
effective date of the rate, and trans-shipment and terminal charges
and rules affecting rates or value of the service rendered,' held
within the purview of § 21 of the Shipping Act of 1916. P. 144.
2. An administrative order justified by a lawful purpose is not rendered illegal by the existence of another motive in the mind of
the officer issuing it. P. 145.
3. An order not calling for the production, or demanding an inspection, of books or documents, but calling for a copy or a summary,
is not a search or seizure within the Fourth Amendment. P. 145.
4. An order made under § 21 of the Shipping Act of 1916, directed
to a single carrier, held not to have been shown to be discriminatory against that carrier in favor of competitors. P. 146.
5. Abolition of the Shipping Board and transfer of its functions to
the Department of Commerce, by Executive Order, if not authorized by Title IV of the Legislative Appropriation Act of June 30,
1932, as amended, was impliedly ratified by the Merchant Marine
Act of 1936, which refers to the functions of the Shipping Board
as "now vested in the Dpartment of Commerce pursuant to
Section 12 of the President's Executive Order No. 6166." P. 146.
6. Even assuming that an order of the Secretary of Commerce
requiring an ocean carrier to furnish data as to rates, etc., under
§ 21 of the Shipping Act, was invalid upon the ground that the
transfer of the duties of the Shipping Board to the Commerce
Department by Executive Order involved an unconstitutional.
delegation of legislative 'power to the President, the question is
rendered moot by § 204 (a) of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936,
which provides that all functions, etc., of the Shipping Board,
"now vested in the Department of Commerce" by the President's
order, are transferred to the United States Maritime Commission,

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and by an order of that Commission providing that such orders
of theSecretary of Commerce shall continue in effect, etc. P. 148.
7. Such an administrative order, which merely calls for data concerning the carrier's business, need not be preceded, by notice and
hearing. P. 149.
14 F. Supp.. .407, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, 'of three
judges, which denied an interlocutory injunction and dismissed the bill, in a suit by an ocean carrier to enjoin the
enforcement of an order made by the Secretary of Commerce under the Shipping Act.

Mr. James W. Ryan for appellant.

Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor GeneralReed and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, Edward
Dumbauld, and R. H. Hallett were on the brief, for the
United States et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is'an appeal from the final decree of a specially
constituted district court of three judges for the Southern
District of New York denying an interlocutory .injunction and dismissing the appellant's bill for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.'
The suit was brought to restrain enforcement of an
order issued November 18, 1935, by the Secretary of
Commerce pursuant to § 21 of the Shipping Act, 1916,2
F. Supp. 407.
Act of Sept. 7, 1916, c. 451, § 21, 39 Stat. 728, 736, 46 U. S. C.

1 14

§ 820. The suit was instituted under § 31 of the Shipping Act, 39
Stat. 738, 46 U. S. C. § 830, whereby the venue and procedure in
suits to restrain enforcement of an order of the Shipping Board are
'made the same as in similar suits respecting orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. (Judicial Code, § 208, 28 U. S. C. 46, and
the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 219, 28 U. S. C. §§ 43, 44,
45. and 47, whereby the venue of a suit brought to set aside an order

ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO. v. U. S.
139

141

Opinion of the Court.

requiring the appellant to file with the Secretary on
December 16, 1935, a copy or summary of its books and
records for the period September 1 to November 12, 1935,
which should show each commodity carried from the
United States to a foreign country, with point of shipment, point of destination, and rate charged or collected,
the effective date of the rate, and trans-shipment and
terminal charges and rules affecting rates or value of the
service rendered. The order recites that it appears full
information as to rates in connection with transportation
of certain property from the United States to foreign
countries by carriers by water in foreign commerce subject to the Shipping Act 1916 is necessary to the proper
administration of the regulatory provisions of the act
and that the appellant is engaged in such transportation.
The complaint sets forth five causes of action. The
first is that the order is invalid because Congress did not
intend by the Legislative Appropriation Act of 1932 8 to
authorize the President to abolish the Shipping Board
and transfer its functions to an executive officer such as
the Secretary of Commerce, and that if Congress did so
intend the Act is unconstitutional as attempting to make
the head of an executive department also a judicial officer
of the Interstate Commerce Commission is the judicial district in
which the petitioner has its principal office.) The complainant
named and attempted to serve as defendants, in addition to the
United States, the Department of Commerce, the Shipping Board
Bureau of the Department of Commerce, .Daniel C. Roper, individually and as Secretary of Commerce, James C. Peacock, individually
and as Director of the Shipping Board Bureau, and Lamar Hardy,
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. The
suit was dismissed as to many of these defendants for want of service
or for want of proper joinder as defendants but the action was maintainable as the United States is, by the statutes, made the proper
party defendant in such cases. No point is here made as to the
action below dismissing defendants from the cause.
8 Act of June 30, 1932, c. 314, 47 Stat. 382, 413.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and a legislative officer of the United States and in failing to set up an adequate declaration of policy or standard of action, and, further, that the President promulgated the order of transfer without adequate hearings or
findings of fact on which to base it.
The second cause of action is that the Secretary's order
is invalid as in substance the attempt of a. competitor to
regulate or stabilize the appellant's rates and to compel
it to. charge rates fixed by a shipping monopoly of which
appellant's competitor is a member. The charge is that
before the order was isued the Secretary had transferred
all his Shipping Board functions to one Peacock, who was
president of a private shipping corporation (The United
States Merchant Fleet Corporation) which was actively
Qperating vessels in competition with those of appellant
and was a member of a conference or shipping .combina-.
tion whose interests were opposed to those of appellant,
which is an independent or non-conference operator; and
that the order had been issued for the financial benefit of
the competitor. The further allegation is that the constitutional separation of powers between legislative, judicial, and executive branches and the Fifth Amendment of
the Constitution forbid the exercise of regulatory or quasijudicial functions such as were entrusted to the United
States Shipping Board, by persons or agencies having the
'interests described, and require that the Secretary's order
be held for naught.
The third cause of action is that the order was issued
:not for a public purpose authorized by Congress but in
furtherance of a concerted plan to compel the appellant,
an independent non-conference carrier, either to join a
conference or shipping monopoly, or else suffer damage
by disclosure to competitors of current business records showing rates'charged and commodities transported. The Secretary's order is alleged to have been
issued to promote- and foster a monopoly of appellant's
competitors.

ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO. v. U. S.
139

143

Opinion of the Court.

The fourth cause of action is that the order is an unjust discrimination against appellant which is forbidden
by the Fifth Amendment because it requires appellant to
file a record of actual transactions, whereas the Secretary
requires appellant's competitors, the conference lines or
members of the shipping combination, merely to file general rate schedules for the future which are not always
observed and need not be observed. Further, that the
order issued under § 21 entails penalties for disobedience
whereas orders issued by the Secretary to appellant's competitors were not issued under § 21 or any other section of
the act, carried no penalties for non-observance, and
called only for information which those compptitors were
already required by law to file under § 15 of the Shipping
Act of 1916 ' because of their having joined in a conference or shipping combination.
The fifth cause of action is that the order should be
enjoined because the Secretary rejected appellant's offer
to file records on condition that they would not be communicated to appellant's competitors to the damage of
appellant and because the Secretary stated his purpose
was to turn the records over to the public, which would
result in fostering unfair competition and ruin appellant's business. It is charged that the appellant cannot
comply with the order without prejudice or losing its
equitable, legal, and constitutional rights.
An injunction affidavit was filed by the appellant and
two reply affidavits by the United States. We find it unnecessary to consider them as we are of opinion that the
decree dismissing the bill must be affirmed.
The grounds of complaint fall into two general classes.
Upon the assumption that the powers and duties of the
Shipping Board were effectively transferred to the Secre'Act of September 7, 1916, § 15, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, 733, 46
U. S. C. § 814.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

tary of Commerce, the claim is that the order was beyond
the statutory authority conferred by the Shipping Act,
amounted to an illegal search and seizure, and was invalid
because arbitrary and unreasonable. But, in addition, it
is asserted that transfer of the board's powers and duties
to the Sebretary was unauthorized by action of Congress
and, if s authorized, was in violation of the Constitution.
First'The order is plainly within the terms of § 21
of theShipping Act, 1916, which provides:
"The board may require any common carrier by water,
or other person subject to this chapter, or any officer, receiver, trustee, lessee, agent, or employee thereof, to file
with it any periodical or special report, or any account,
record, rate, or charge, or any memorandum of any facts
and transactions appertaining to the business of such
carrier or other person subject to this chapter. Such
report, account, record, rate, charge, or memorandum
shall be under oatlf whenever the board so requires, and
shall be furnished in the form and within the time prescribed by the board. Whoever fails to file any report,
account, record, rate, charge, or memorandum as required
by this section shall forfeit to the United States the sum
of $100 for each day of such default."
The appellant suggests that the section grants power
merely to subpoena records, reports, and information,
to be exercised only in hearings upon complaints of violation of the act. This view ignores the fact that § 27
explicitly authorizes the issuance of subpoenas," including subpoenas ducgs tecum, for hearings upon alleged
violations. It is inconceivable that this is mere tautology.
The purpose of § 21 is not far to seek. Other sections
forbid allowance of rebates, require the filing of agreements fixing or regulating rates, granting special ratps,
accommodations or privileges, which may be disapproved,
546 U. S. C. 826.

ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO. v. U. S.

145

Opinion of the Court.

139

cancelled or modified if the board finds them unjustly
discriminatory or violative of the act, prohibit undue
or unreasonable preferences or the cutting of established
rates and unjust discrimination between 'shippers or
ports.' To enable it to perform its functions the board
may well need such information as that which the section
gives it power to demand. Indeed the order recites that
in this instance such information is so required.
Despite its recitals of legitimate purpose, the order,
so the complaint alleges, sprang from illegal motives,
namely, to regulate and stabilize freight rates for the
benefit of carriers belonging to steamship conferences,
to compel appellant to join a conference, and to create a
monopoly in trans-oceanic shipping.
Aside from the principle that if the order is justified
by a lawful purpose, it is not rendered illegal by some
other motive in the mind of the officer issuing it,' the
allegations of the complaint are mere conclusions unsupported by any facts pleaded and are, therefore,
insufficient.'
The argument that the order amounts to an unreasonable search and seizure forbidden by the Fourth
Amendment, is answered by the fact that it does not
call for the production or inspection of any of appellant's
books or papers.9
6

46 U. S. C. 812-816.

Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163,
184. Philadelphia & Trenton R. Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448, 458,
459; United States v. Chemical Foundation,272 U. S. 1, 14, 15.
8 Moore v. Greene, 19 How. 69, 72; St. Louis & San Francisco Ry.
Co. v. Johnston, 133 U. S. 566, 577; Garrett v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
235 U. S. 308, 313; Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S. 317, 324-5;
Einstein v. Schnebly, 89 Fed. 540, 548.
9 Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 45, 46.
Compare Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S. 438, 463; Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612.
130607'-37-

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The complaint asserts the appellant is the only carrier
which has been required, pursuant to § 21, to file a record
of rates actually charged. The section, however,. plainly
authorizes the making of such an order directed to a
single carrier. Nevertheless, the appellant charges such
action is unreasonable and arbitrary and violates the
Fifth Amendment. The bill itself discloses the conference carriers have filed schedules of their rates and the
act requires that if any contract for a change of those
rates is made the new rates may be charged only after
the board has apjiroved the agreement. ° The gravamen of the complaint does not appear to be that the
appellant is required to supply information not furnished by the conference lines, or different information
from that which the conference lines file with the Secretary, but that the conference lines are not compelled
to adhere to the rates named in their schedules. There
is, however, no showing that this circumstance injures
the appellant. The data called for related to rates
charged in the past,-rates fixed by the appellant without
constraint; and the bill makes no charge that compliance
with the order will in any wise restrict the appellant's
freedom to deviate from those past rates in the future.
The case made by the bill fails to exhibit discrimination
in fact as between appellant and its competitors, much
less arbitrary and unjustifiable discrimination.
Second. It is earnestly contended that Title IV of the
legislative appropriation act of June 30, 1932, as
amended," did not authorize the abolition of the Shipping Board and the transfer of its functions to the Department of Commerce by executive order. Title III
of the act reorganized the Shipping Board; and it is said
that Congress would not have taken this action had it
10 46 U. S. C. 814.
U 47 Stat. 413; 47 Stat. 1517.

ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO. v. U. S.

147

Opinion of the Court.

139

intended to include the Shipping Board within the scope
of § 402 of the act, which defines executive agencies the
President may' abolish or whose functions he may transfer as "any commission, board, bureau, division, service,
or office in the executive branch of the government."
That this is true is attested by the fact that § 406 withheld from the President the authority to abolish or
transfer the functions of the Shipping Board. But when
the act was amended March 3, 1933,12 the prohibition

was omitted and the phrase "independent establishment" was added to the enumeration of executive agencies in § 402. After these changes were made the President, by Executive Order dated June 10, 1933, made the
transfer. As required by the act of June 30, 1932, he
transmitted a copy of the order to the Congress, which
adjourned a few days after its receipt. Whatever doubt
may be entertained, as to the intent of Congress that the
Shipping Board should be subject to transfer by the
President, and, if so, whether the order lay before Congress the requisite number of days to satisfy the statutory mandate, Congress appears to have recognized the
validity of the transfer and ratified the President's action
by the appropriation acts of April 7, 1934,"' March 22,
1935,14 and May 15, 1936,"5 all of which make appropria-

tions to the Department of Commerce for salaries and
expenses to carry out the provisions of the shipping act
as amended and refer to the executive order. The appellant insists that these references were casual and are not
to be taken as ratifying the President's action. We need
not stop to consider the argument since, by the Mer12

1
14

47 Stat. 1517.

C..104, Title I1, 48 Stat. 529, 566.
C. 39, Title III, 49 Stat. 67, 99.

15 C. 405, 49 Stat. 1309, 1345.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

chant Marine Act of 1936,"' § 204 (a), the functions
of the former Shipping Board are referred to as "now
vested in the Department of Commerce pursuant to § 12
of the President's Executive Order No. 6166."
. It remains to deal with the contentions that
Congress
lacked the power either to transfer or to ratify the transfer of the duties of the Shipping Board to the Secretary
of Commerce by delegating to the President authority so
to do by executive order, subject to the approval of Congress, and that the President, in exercising the power delegated to him, exceeded his authority because he acted
without notice and hearing and failed in the order adequately to specify the grounds for his action. We find it
unnecessary to decide the questions sought to be raised in
this connection. On June 29, 1936, Congress adopted the
Merchant Marine Act. By § 204 (a) of that statute it
was provided:
"All the functions, powers, and duties vested in the
former United States Shipping Board by the Shipping
Act, 1916, . . .and amendments, . . . and now vested
in the Department of Commerce pursuant to Section 12
of the President's Executive Order of June 10, 1933, are
hereby transferred to the United States Maritime

Commission

.

The Commission is created by the Act. By § 204 (b) it
is authorized to adopt all necessary rules and regulations
to catry opt the powers, duties, and functions vested in it
by .tte act. October 21, 1936, after organization, the
Com~nission promulgated an order (General Order No.
2) 17 in which it declared:
.. all orders, .. .which have been issued or authorized by . . . the Department of Commerce, in the
exercise of the functions, powers, and duties transferred
L8June 29, 1936, c. 858, 49 Stat. 1985.
The Federal Register, No. 159, October 23, 1936, p. 1917.

.17

ISBRANDTSEN-MOLLER CO. Y. U. S.
139

149

Opinion of the Court.

to this Commission by the Merchant Marine Act, 1936,
and -which are in effect, at the time of such transfer, shall
continue in effect, insofar as not in conflict with said
Act, until modified, terminated, superseded, or repealed
by this Commission or by operation of law; . . ."
We are of opinion that the Act of 1936 and the
Commission's order render moot the constitutional questions sought tq be raised by the appellant even though
we assume, without deciding, that the Secretary of Commerce had no power to issue the order of November 18,
1935. That order was administrative in character. It
determined no rights and prescribed no duties of the appellant as an ocean carrier. It demanded the filing of
data. No notice or hearing was prerequisite to its issue.
It was still in fieri when the United States Maritime
Commission came into existence. By virtue of the action
of that commission it .is continued, in force and the appellant is commanded to obey it. The appellant concedes that if the order was within the constitutional and
statutory powers of the Shipping Board, and had been
made by that board, there could be no question of its
validity. As it has become an outstanding administrative order of a commission having the powers and duties
formerly vested in the Shipping Board the appellant is
in no position to contend that, as it now affects the appellant, the order is void because issued in the alleged
unconstitutional exercise of the powers of the Shipping
Board by the Secretary of Commerce.
The decree is
Affirmhed.

