OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

v. United States, 281 U. S. 479, 488. Moreover, the
counterclaim does not arise out of the transaction that is
the subject of the suit and is not germane or related to
it. Equity Rule 30 cannot reasonably be construed to
authorize intervening defendants, in a suit to set aside
an order of the commission, to set up counterclaims not
arising out of or related to the subject matter of the
suit. That would permit complications likely to burden
and impede and would be contrary to the purpose and
intent of the rule. Chandler & Price Co. v. Brandtjen
& Kluge, Inc., 296 U. S. 53, 59. The counterclaim, not
being within the jurisdiction of the specially constituted
court, should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry. v. United States,
ubi supra.
Complainants were entitled to the judgment and decree of the specially constituted court declaring that the
commission's order striking the tariff from its files is
illegal and void and setting aside and annulling the same.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO is of the opinion that the decree
should be modified by striking the counterclaim of the
intervening defendant, and as so modified, affirmed.
INGELS, DIRECTOR OF THE MOTOR VEHICLE

DEPARTMENT,

ET AL. V. MORF ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT 'COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 456. Argued February 5, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.
1. To justify the exaction by a State of a money payment burdening
interstate commerce, it must affirmatively appear that it is de-

INGELS v. MORF.
290

Counsel for Parties.

manded as reimbursement for the expense of providing facilities,
or of enforcing regulations of the commerce which are within its
constitutional power. This may appear from the statute itself,
or from the use of the money collected, to defray such expense.
P. 294.
2. The California "Caravan Act," Stats., 1935, c. 402, defines "caravaning" as the transportation "from without the State, of any
motor vehicle operated on its own wheels or in tow of another
vehicle for the purpose of selling or offering the same for sale . * .
to any purchaser" located within or without the State; it prohibits caravaning without attaching to each vehicle a special permit, for which a fee of $15.00 is exacted. The permit is valid only
for a specified trip or trips and for a period of 90 days. The Act
directs that the fees collected be paid into the general fund in
the state treasury, and declares that they are "intended to reimburse the state treasury for the added expense which the State
may incur in the administration and enforcement of this Act,
and the added expense of policing the highways over which such
caravaning may be conducted, so as to provide for the safety of
traffic on such highways where caravaning is being conducted."
Held:
(1) From a consideration of the Act, in connection with other
California enactments, it appears that the collections are used, not
to meet the cost of highway construction or maintenance, but to
reimburse the state treasury for the added expense of administering the Caravan Act and policing the caravaning traffic. P. 295.
(2) The burden of showing that, for this purpose, the exaction
is excessive rested upon the person attacking it. P. 296.
(3) Finding of the trial court that the fee is excessive was
sustained by the evidence in this case. Id.
(4) The licensing provisions therefore impose an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Morf v. Bingaman, 298
U. S. 407, distinguished. Pp. 294, 297.
14 F. Supp. 922, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three'
judges, enjoining the enforcement of provisions of the
California Caravan Act.

Messrs. Frank Richards and Amos M. Mathews, with
whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California,
and Mr. James S. Howie were on the brief, for appellants.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Messrs. Ralph K. Pierson and Byron J. Walters, with
whom Mr. Samuel P. Block was on the brief, for
appellees.
By leave of Court, Mr. Frank P. Doherty filed a brief
on behalf of Asher & Ponder, a co-partnership, as amicus
curiae, urging affirmance of the decree below.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought by appellee in the District Court
for Southern California, three judges sitting, to restrain
appellants, state officers, from enforcing the provisions
of the "Caravan" Act, Cal. Stat. 1935, c. 402, as a forbidden burden on interstate commerce, and as an infringement of the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. From a decree
granting the relief prayed, the case comes here on appeal
under §§ 238 (3), 266, Judicial Code.
The challenged statute defines "caravaning" as the
transportation, "from without the state, of any motor
vehicle operated on its own wheels or in tow of another
vehicle for the purpose of selling or offering the same for
sale . . . to any purchaser" located within or without
the state. Sections 2 and 3 prohibit caravaning without
attaching to each vehicle so transported a special permit
issued by the State Motor Vehicle Department, for which
a fee of $15 is exacted. A permit is valid only for the
trip or trips specified in it, and for a period of ninety
days (§ 4). Section 6 directs that the fees collected be
paid into the general fund in the state treasury, and
declares that they are "intended to reimburse the State
treasury for the added expense which the State may incur.
in the administration and enforcement of this Act, and
the added expense of policing the highways over which
such caravaning may be conducted, so as to provide for

INGELS v. MORF.
290

Opinion of the Court.

the safety of traffic on such highways where caravaning is
being conducted."
Appellee, a re sident of Los Angeles, California, carries
on his busines9 there as a dealer in automobiles. He
purchases used automobiles in other states and transports
them from the place of purchase to points on the California boundary line, thence over state highways to Los
Angeles, and sometimes to other places, where he offers
them for sale. He conducts from 20 to 25% of the total
movement in such traffic. Some of his vehicles are
coupled together in twos, and move in caravans or fleets,
sometimes aggregating more than 30 cars. He gave testimony, which appellants sharply challenge, that from 30
to 40% move singly and not in company with any other
vehicle. A permit is required for each car, whether it
moves alone or as part of a fleet. The district court found
that such movement of vehicles in caravans of more than
four create special traffic difficulties, but that the movement of four or less "constitutes no police problem";
that there is considerable like traffic carried on wholly
within the state, for which the fee of $15 is not exacted
and for which no similar or other fee is required; and
that the demanded fee for each car moving in the interstate traffic is excessive, and bears no reasonable relation
to the increased cost of policing. It concluded, as the
appellee contends here, that the statute denies to appellee due process and equal protection-, and places a
forbidden burden on, and discriminates against, interstate commerce.
We find it necessary to consider only the contention
that the licensing provisions burden interstate commerce.
We do not discuss appellants' suggestion that, contrary to
the finding below, there is no evidence of comparable
traffic moving intrastate, and hence no discrimination
against interstate commerce by the failure of the Act to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

exact a fee of those engaged in intrastate commerce. It
is not denied that the permit fee, imposed upon those
engaged in interstate commerce, burdens this commerce,
but appellants urge that it is a permissible charge for the
Vse of the state highways and for the cost of policing the
traffic, including the cost of administering the Act.
In Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S. 407, recently before
this Court, the Caravaning Act of New Mexico, containing some features similar to the present act, was likewise
assailed as burdening interstate commerce by the imposition of a fee, of $7.50 for each vehicle moving by its own
power, and $5.00 for each vehicle towed by another when
moving in caravan. The statute made the privilege of
using the highway conditional upon payment of the fee.
The fees collected were devoted in part to highway purposes. We held that the fees were a charge for the use
of the highways, not shown by the taxpayer to be unreasonable, which the state might lawfully demand. Compare Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 624; Interstate
Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, 249, 250.
To justify the exaction by a state of a money payment
burdening interstate commerce, it must affirmatively appear that it is demanded as reimbursement for the expense of providing facilities, or of enforcing regulations
of the commerce which are within its constitutional
power. Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 169, 170;
Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, 283 U. S. 183, 186;
Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252,
259; Clyde Mallory Lines v. Alabama, 296 U. S. 261, 267.
This may appear from the statute itself, Morf v. Bingaman, supra; Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554, 557, or from
the use of the money collected, to defray such expense.
Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S. 169, 173; see Kane v. New
Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 168, 169; Aero Mayflower Transit
Co., v. Georgia Public Service Comm'n, 295 U. S. 285,

INGELS v. MORF.
290

Opinion of the Court.

289; compare Interstate Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, supra,
249.
Here appellant does not show that the fees collected
are used to meet the cost of the construction or maintenance of its highways. Section 6 of the challenged act,
which directs that the permit fees be paid into the general fund of the state treasury, is to be contrasted with
other California statutes relating to motor vehicles, which
exact license fees and taxes and direct that they be paid,
at least in part, into special funds devoted to highway
purposes. Motor Fuel License Act, § 13, Cal. Stat. 1923,
c. 267, as amended, Cal. Stat. 1935, c. 264; Vehicle Code,
§§ 776, 781, Cal. Stat. 1935, c. 27; Cal. Stat. 1935, c. 362,
§§ 9 (a), 9 (d). See Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey,
supra, 188-190. Appellants point to no statute appropriating any part of the general fund of the state treasury for highway purposes, and the Street and Highways
Code, § 183, Cal. Stat. 1935, c. 29, provides: "With the
exception of money authorized by law to be deposited
in the state highway general fund, all money available
for the acquisition of real property or interest therein for
state highways or for construction, maintenance or improvement of state highways, or highways in state parks,
shall be deposited in the state highway fund."
Hence we must look to the statute itself to ascertain
the purposes for which the permit fees are collected. On
this point it is explicit. It declares (§ 6) that they are
intended to reimburse the state treasury for the added
expense of administering the Caravan Act and policing
the caravaning traffic. This negatives any inference of
the purpose of the collection which might otherwise be
drawn from the statute, and from its provision that the
permit is prerequisite to the use of the highways. Compare Morf v. Bingaman, supra. It is true that this declaration is not. an appropriation of the moneys collected

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and it does not foreclose the use of the fund for highway maintenance, should the state elect to do so. But
until such appropriation is made the statute itself states
the legislative purpose, and precludes state officials from
asserting that the fees are collected for any other.
The burden rests on appellee to show that the fee is
excessive for the declared purpose. Hendrick v. Maryland, supra, 624; Interstate Busses Corp. v. Blodgett,
supra, 250; Mor v. Bingaman, supra, 410. But the trial
court has found that it is excessive and the finding is
amply supported by evidence. In 1934, 9,663 cars were
caravaned, and in the first eleven months of 1935, 14,000.
This supports the inference of the trial court that 15,000
cars are brought into the state, annually, for sale under
the conditions defined in the Act. There was testimony
that the expense involved in issuing caravaning permits
is "about $5.00 per car," although it appeared that the
permit fee for local pleasure cars, numbering 1,960,000
was $3.00 per year of which only 35% ($1.05) is devoted
to administrative expenses.
The Caravan Act became effective September 15, 1935.
A permit granted under it is confined to a limited movement from the state boundary to the immediate point of
destination. The undisputed evidence shows that prior
to the passage of the measure two new district inspectors
were appointed solely on account of caravaning, and
fourteen new highway patrolmen were "assigned," partially because of caravaning and its effect on traffic.
The chief of the California highway patrol, in summarizing his testimony, said that he had put on "approximately six additional men over the whole state
because there were caravans on the road, and I anticipate putting on more men." They receive a monthly
salary of $170, which may eventually be increased to
$225. The district court found that the evidence indi-

SWAYNE & HOYT, LTD. v. U. S.
290

Syllabus.

cated that a total of ten men at a salary of $200 a month,
and at an aggregate cost of $24,000 a year, would be

adequate to police the traffic, whereas the permit fees
from 15,000 cars would yield an annual return of
$225,000.
We cannot say that the evidence does not support the
conclusion of the trial court that the cost of policing
would be amply met by a license fee of one-third of the
amount so charged. The administrative expense of issuing the permits appears not to have been included, but
the testimony that that expense was about $5.00 per car
does not bridge the arithmetical gap, and does not impeach the court's conclusion that the permit fee bears
no reasonable relation to the total cost of regulation, to
defray which it is collected. It rightly held that the
licensing provisions of the statute impose an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce.
On this record we are not required to consider whether
the provisions of § 2 which make it unlawful "to operate
three or more vehicles or groups of vehicles in a caravan
unless a space of at least one hundred fifty feet shall at
all times be maintained between each vehicle or group of
vehicles being so caravaned" may be enforced if applied,
independently of the licensing provisions, in a statute
Affirmed.
non-discriminatory in its operation.
SWAYNE & HOYT, LTD. ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 494.

Argued February 11, 12, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

1. Acting under the Shipping Act and an Executive Order purporting
to transfer the functions of the Shipping Board to the Secretary
of Commerce, the Secretary, after hearings, found that rates filed
by a certain group of carriers were unduly prejudicial to shippers

and other carriers and ordered their cancellation.

Held that the

