OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

twelve, thirteen, and fourteen per cent. It resulted that
in some instances a teacher receiving the lowest salary
in a given bracket would have his compensation reduced
to a figure lower than the reduced compensation of one
receiving the highest salary in the next lower bracket.
From this circumstance it is argued that the board's
action arbitrarily discriminated between the employes
and so denied them the equal protection of the laws
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
We think it was reasonable and proper that the teachers employed by the board should be divided into classes
for the application of the percentage reduction. All in
a given class were treated alike. Incidental individual
inequality resulting in some instances from the operation
of the plan does not condemn it as an unreasonable or
arbitrary method of dealing with the problem of general
salary reductions or deny the equality guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment.

Judgments affirmed.
HOLYOKE WATIER POWER CO. v. AMERICAN
WRITING PAPER CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 180.

TO THE rIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Argued December 11, 1936.-Decided March 1, 1937.

Leases of water-power rights to be enjoyed in perpetuity provided
that the grantee should pay as rent "a quantity of gold which
shall be equal in amount to" a stated number of "dollars of the
gold coin of the United States of the standard of weight and
fineness of the year 1894, or the equivalent of this commodity
in United States currency." In 1894, and continuously thereafter
till January 31, 1934, the statutory gold content of the dollar was
twenty-five and eight-tenths grains of gold, nine-tenths fine. Since
January 31, 1934, by force of the Gold Reserve Act of that year
and the order of the President thereunder, the gold content of the
dollar has been fixed to consist of fifteen and five twenty-firsts

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

325

Argument for Petitioner.

grains of gold, nine-tenths fine. The Joint Resolution of June 5,
1933, had declared that every obligation payable in money of the
United States, whether theretofore or thereafter incurred, should
be discharged upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or
currency which at the time of payment was legal tender for public
or private debts, irrespective of any provision contained therein
whereby the obligee was given a right to require payment in gold
or in a particular kind of coin or currency, or in an amount in
money of the United States measured thereby. Held:
1. The lessee's obligation under the contract was for the payment of money, and not for the delivery of gold as upon sale of a
commodity. P. 335.
2. A contract for the payment of gold as the equivalent of
money,- and a jortiori a contract for the payment of money
measurable in gold, is within the letter of the Joint Resolution of
June 5, 1933, and equally within its spirit, Norman v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 294 U. S. 240. P. 337.
An obligation to make delivery upon a bona fide sale is not
fairly to be classified as an obligation "payable in money," within
the meaning of the Joint Resolution, or so it may be assumed for
the purpose of this case. But the evil aimed at by the Resolution
does include transactions whereby gold, coined or uncoined, is to
be delivered in satisfaction of a debt expressed in terms of dollars,
payment, not sale, being then the end to be achieved, and transactions whereby a debt is to be discharged, not in bullion, but in
dollars, if the number of the dollars is to be increased or diminished
in proportion to the diminution or the increase of the gold basis
of the currency.
83 F. (2d) 398, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 526, to review a judgment of the
.Circuit Court of Appeals affirming an order of the District Court made in a proceeding for reorganization of
the Paper Company under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.
The order fixed the amounts due from that company to a
Water Power Company, the present petitioner, under
severalleases. 11 F. Supp. 518. See 9 id. 451.
Mr. Bentley Wirt Warren, with whom Messrs. Nathan
P. Avery, James M. Healy, and Donald C. Starr were on

the brief, for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

The question for determination is the measure of the
debtor's liability, on three certain dates after the devaluation of the dollar, under an obligation in the alternative,
to pay either a specified quantity of gold as a commodity
or its equivalent in currency, at the option of the debtor.
The provision for payment in gold was impossible of
performance according to its terms, and no provision for
its discharge other than according to its terms was provided by law (more particularly, by the Joint Resolution
of June 5, 1933).
The purpose of the parties in drawing the rental provisions in the form in dispute was to provide against the
effect of an appreciation or depreciation of the currency
by adopting gold bullion as a medium of payment, or, at
the option of the lessee, as a measure of an indeterminate
amount of currency according to the ratio of equivalence
between gold bullion and currency on the various rental
dates. According to the ordinary meaning of "equivalence," with respect to this relation, and as evident from
various legislative enactments and executive acts, the
currency equivalent of gold bullion on July 1 and October
1, 1934, and on January 1, 1935, according to the intent
of the remaining alternative provision, was one dollar
for each 156/2 grains of gold -nine-tenths fine, or $35 an
ounce.
The debtor's duty to perform this contractual provision according to its terms has not been modified by
law (more particularly, by the said Joint Resolution), for
the following reasons:
1. The provision of the Joint Resolution for the discharge of certain contracts "dollar for dollar" applies only
to obligations to pay sums certain in money. This is
apparent from the terms of the Resolution itself, whether
read by themselves or in connection with relevant external evidence of their meaning.

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

327

Argument for Petitioner.

The historic fact that gold has from time to time been
the metallic base of the money of the United States has
not the effect of constituting uncoined gold bullion
"money." The terms of the express power given to
Congress to "coin money" indicate the necessity of
coinage to give to bullion the quality of legal tender
attributed by -the law, aside from its bullion value (see
Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.; 294 U. S. 240, 304).
The terms of the provision for the discharge of certain
money obligations "dollar for dollar" themselves necessarily restrict the operation of the Resolution to obligations p'ayable in dollars.
Nor is the question affected by the inclusion in the
rental provision of the words "fifteen hundred ($1500)
dollars of the gold coin of the United States." It was
plainly the function of this phrase simply to render the
magnitude of the quantity of gold being stipulated for
more readily comprehensible to the contracting parties.
If the parties had foregone the ready means of visual
comprehension afforded by the reference to gold coins,
and had calculated in the beginning (as must eventually
have been done before payment in any case) the number
of ounces or grains of gold being contracted for, and had
written the stipulation in terms for "80.625 ounces of
gold .9 fine, or 72.5625 ounces of gold 1000 fine," the substance of the undertaking would have been in no respect
different. Holyoke Water Power Co. v. American Writing Paper Co., 9 F. Supp. 451, 453; Emery Bird Thayer
Dry Goods Co. v. Williams, 15 F. Supp. 938, 941.
2. Even if the terms of the Resolution be equivocal in
this respect, they are to be construed as not referring
to contracts payable in money measured by gold as a
commodity, because interference by Congress with such
contracts would be subject to grave doubts as to its constitutionality. Contracts employing a commodity as a

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent

300 U. S.

standard of value are not within the field of the currency
power of Congress; although, even if they be within that
field, they do not exist to such'extent as to obstruct the
monetary policy of Congress.
3. The obligation of the particular contracts in question may not be impaired, as decreed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, for the additional reason that they provide for
payment for the supply of the power of artificially impounded water which your petitioner is contractually
bound to furnish, in fixed amounts, in perpetuity. Payment of the currency equivalent according to the. intent
of the undertakings will not constitute an unjust burden
upon the debtor, and so will not create a dislocation of
the domestic economy to any degree whatever. By the
same token, the tendency of the result which it was the
design of the Congress, in enacting the Joint Resolution,
to produce, must be, if the decree be affirmed, inevitably
to require the Water Power Company to perform that
which is economically impossible.
For these reasons, interference with the performance of
these indentures would deprive your petitioner of property and would bear no reasonable relation to any legitimate exercise of power by the Congress and would constitute violation of the Fifth and Tenth Amendments to
the Constitution.
If the currency equivalent for which the petitioner
contends may not be recovered, it is submitted that in
no event should that equivalent be determined according
to the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, but that the
decree be modified so as not to preclude recovery by the
petitioner according to the actual value of the water
power furnished during the rental periods in question,
and to be furnished in the future.
Mr. CharlesP. Curtis, Jr., with whom Messrs. John L.
Hall, Claude R. Branch, and Russell L. Davenport were
on the brief, for respondent.

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

329

Argument for Respondent.

The rental provisions in these indentures are not really
commodity contracts. They do not require the obligor
to deliver a commodity. They are gold value contracts,
because they provide for payment either in gold or in
the equivalent of gold in currency at the option of the
obligor. Since the performance of either alternative is a
full performance of the contract, the contract may be
fully satisfied by the payment of money without the delivery of a single ounce of any commodity at any time.
If this were a commodity contract, the money payment
would be damages for the breach of a contract to deliver
the gold, not, as it is, the performance of the contract in
accordance with its very terms. Plainly it imposes no
obligation upon the obligor to deliver gold as a commodity or otherwise. The obligation is to deliver the
value of gold, either by the delivery of the gold itself or
of its equivalent in money. Simply calling the measure
of the equivalent money a commodity does not make the
contract a commodity contract.
We have, therefor, not a gold contract, but a gold value
contract.
The recent gold legislation of 1933-1934, which must
be taken as a legislative unit, and of which the Joint
Resolution of 1933 was only one part, did two things:
(1) It eliminated the alternative of gold by making it
impossible to pay in gold; and (2) it rendered the remaining alternative of money dischargeable dollar for
dollar. For that was an obligation to pay an amount of
money measured by gold, and expressly covered by the
Joint Resolution. Congress banned gold as well as gold
coins, and took action to put all gold value contracts on a
uniform basis of parity.
The Joint Resolution declares to be against public
policy any obligation purporting 'ito give the obligee a
right to require payment in gold or a particular kind of
coin or currency, or in an amount of money of the United

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

300 U. S.

States measured thereby." This language embraces the
present contract, since it expressly calls for gold or an
amount of currency measured thereby. Under the terms
of the Resolution, therefore, this contract is dischargeable
dollar for dollar in currency.
The petitioner contends that the Joint Resolution was
not intended to apply to the present contract because
the formula prescribed for the discharge of contractsi. e., by payment "dollar for dollar"-is not adapted to a
contract which refers to dollars only for the purpose of
fixing a quantity of gold which, in turn, is to be taken as
the measure of payment in currency. The petitioner
argues that the reference to dollars in this indenture was
merely incidental and fortuitous; that the parties could
have achieved the same result by providing for a certain
number of ounces of gold with no mention of dollars
whatever; and that a formula discharging the contract
"dollar for dollar" does not apply where the contract
contained no reference at all to dollars.
This argument is based on a practical inconvenience
which does not exist in this case. For here there is an
express reference to a fixed amount of dollars and here
there is no difficulty whatever in applying the formula
for discharge "dollar for dollar." Moreover, the petitioner's argument, if accepted, would confine the Resolution to contracts calling for a particular kind of coin or
currency, or 'their equivalent, and would read out of the
Resolution entirely the provision which prohibits contracts requiring "payment in gold . . .or in an amount
in money . . .measured thereby." This provision must

mean that the Resolution was intended to apply, not
only to contracts which provide for the payment of currency in the equivalent of gold coi i, but also to contracts,
like the present, providing for payment of currency in
the equivalent of gold.

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

331

Argument for Respondent.

What we have here is an express gold value clause. It
is what the gold clause in Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co. was construed to be. What was there implied by
the parties and construed by the Court is here expressed
by the parties. The decision in that case is decisive
here.
The monetary power of Congress extends over money
contracts measured in terms of gold as well as over contracts for gold coin. Whether it would extend to contracts attempting to make other commodities the measure
of money is beside the point. Gold has been used as
money and as the measure of money too long to relieve
it of the public burden of regulation by Congress.
Nor is the Joint Resolution as applied to these rental
clauses invalid because there may be so few of them that
they alone might not reasonably be regarded as an
obstacle to the effective exercise of congressional power.
That is not the point. The point is whether they are to
be made an exception to an exercise of that power which
expressly includes them. There is no reasonable ground
for singling them out as an exception. To single them
out would strike at the very reason for giving the power
to Congress, which was uniformity. Moreover, if they
and such as they were exempted, the exception would
soon become the rule, as the only way men would have
to fix promised money values in terms of gold.
But, even if the Joint Resolution cannot be applied to
these rental clauses, whether as inapplicable or as invalid
if so applied-even if there had been no Joint Resolution, yet the equivalent in money which these indentures
call for is at the rate of $20.67 per ounce of gold. This
result is reached quite independently of the Resolution.
The usual doctrines of the law of contracts, applied to
the situation created by the impossibility of paying in
gold, require it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

300 U. S.

The measure of the equivalent of the gold in money is
what the gold would have been worth to the petitioner
if it had been paid. That is what the petitioner contracted for with the word "equivalent." It cannot mean
more than that without belying its own name.
An examination of the relevant Treasury Regulations
§hows that, if the gold had been paid, the petitioner could
have got for it $20.67 per ounce, not $35 per ounce or
any other sum.
The reduction of the gold content of the dollar by the
Gold Reserve Act of 1933, and the Presidential Proclaiiation made no difference to that result. Devaluation made the gold worth no more to the petitioner. It
could have got no more dollars. for such gold after the
deyaluation than before.
This is the same result we reach by applying the Joint
Resolution, and it is just the result we should expect
from the fact that the Gold Reserve Act, the Presidential
Proclamation, the Treasury Regulations, and the Joint
Resolution are all of them parts of one whole, all directed
to the same end.
Perry v. United States held that this was so for gold
coin, and there is no reason to give more for gold bullion
than for gold coin. The determination of the equivalent
-in that case is decisive of its determination here at $20.67
per ounce.
The petitioner has shown no loss to it here, any more
than Perry in that case showed any loss to him there.
We have only the certainty that the respondent is being
asked to pay 69 cents a dollar more than it has been
paying-a gratuitous loss to it and a windfall to the
petitioner.
Solicitor General Reed, with whom Attorney General
Cummings and Messrs. Paul A. Freund, Herman
Oliphant, Clarence V. Opper, Bernard Bernstein, and

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

333

Opinion of the Court.

Charles W. Boand were on the brief, for the United
States, as amicus curiae, by special leave of Court.
MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy is one as to the number of dollars in
present currency that will discharge a covenant for rent
in leases antedating the reduction of the gold content of
the dollar, the covenant being phrased in the manner
hereinafter stated.
At various times between 1881 and 1897 thirteen leases
were executed by the Holyoke Water Company, the petitioner, to the American Writing Paper Company, Inc.,
the respondent, for the enjoyment in perpetuity of waterpower rights and privileges in consideration of an annual rental. With 'Variations immaterial for present purposes, the provision for rental is the same in all the
leases. By concession the following form has been accepted as typical: the grantee shall yield and pay unto
the grantor as rent "a quantity of gold which shall be
equal in amount to fifteen hundred ($1500) dollars of
the gold coin of the United States of the standard of
weight and fineness of the year 1894, or the equivalent
of this commodity in United States currency." In 1894
and continuously thereafter till January 31, 1934, the
statutory gold content of the dollar was twenty five and
eight tenths grains of gold, nine tenths fine. Since January 31, 1934, by force of the Gold Reserve Act of that
year (48 Stat. 337) and the order of the President thereunder, the gold content of the dollar has been fixed to
consist of fifteen and five twenty-firsts grains of gold,
nine tenths fine. Before that reduction a Joint Resolution of the Congress, dated June 5, 1933 (48 Stat. 112),
had declared that every obligation payable in money of
the United States, whether. theretofore or thereafter incurred, should be discharged upon payment, dollar for

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

dollar, .in any coin or currency which at the time of payment was legal tender for public or private debts, irrespective of any provision contained therein whereby the
obligee was given a right to require payment in gold or
in a particular kind of coin or currency, or in an amount
in money of the United States measured thereby. The
precise terms of the Resolution and its recitals will be
considered more at length hereafter.
In June, 1934, the dollar having been then devalued,
the lessee corporation became insolvent or unable to pay
its debts as they matured. Taking advantage of § 77B
of the Bankruptcy Act, it filed a petition for reorganization which the Court of Bankruptcy approved. The
lessor (petitioner here) intervened in that proceeding and
prayed that the amount due to it for rent under the
several water-power leases be inquired into and determined. On behalf of the lessee the contention was that
by force of the Joint Resolution the debt was dischargeable, dollar for dollar, in the then prevailing currency.
On behalf of the lessor the contention was that the market
price of fine gold at the time of the default and later
was $35 an ounce, or $31.50 for an ounce nine tenths fine,
and that payment should be made upon that basis for as
many ounces of such gold as were contained in the stipulated dollars at the execution of the leases. In pressing
that contention, the lessor did not deny that the law declines to give effect to contracts whereby debts are made
payable in gold coin, or in currency varying in amount
with the gold basis of the dollar. Norman v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co., 294 U. S. 240. What was argued was
rather this, that the covenant here in question was not
for the payment of a debt, but for the sale of a commodity, or if viewed as a covenant for payment, that the
standard was the commodity value of the bullion, not
the value of the coin as money, the difference being
thought to be sufficient to change the applicable rule.

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

335

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court held in favor of the lessee, and computed the indebtedness accordingly. 11 F. Supp. 518;
see 9 F. Supp. 451. The Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit affirmed. 83 F. (2d) 398. Because of the importance of the question we granted certiorari.
1. The obligation was one for the payment of money,
and not for the delivery of gold as upon the sale of a
commodity.
The lessor was a. water power company, engaged in that
business and not in any other. There is no pretense that
it was stipulating for gold to be used in art or industry.
What it wished was currency, or bullion susceptible of
being converted into currency, the lessee to make the
choice. The alternative forms of payment shed light
upon each other. They will be considered in succession.
By the first term of the alternative, there may be
payment of the rent in the form of "a quantity of gold
which shall be equal in amount to $1500 of the gold coin
of the United States of the standard of weight and fineness of the year 1894." In this form there is no call for
a stated number of ounces of fine gold, as if a goldsmith
were providing for the uses of his business. The call is
for gold that shall be as heavy and as fine as a stated number of gold dollars, with the result that delivery in such
dollars is a payment in strict accordance with the letter
of the contract. We must consider the situation of the
parties, their business needs and expectations, in gauging
their intention. When these are kept in view, the gold
is seen to be a standard with which to stabilize the value
of the dollar; the dollar not a yardstick with which to
measure the quantity of the gold. To read the leases
otherwise is to permit the realities of the transaction, its
substance and essential purpose, to be obscured by forms
and phrases. Long ago it was said by a distinguished
member of this court, commenting upon a different
statute, but one analogous in purpose: "If the contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

is for the delivery of a chattel or a specific commodity
or substance, the law does not apply. If it is bona fide
for so many carats of diamonds or so many ounces of
gold as bullion, the specific contract must be performed
[assuming, of course, that contracts for the delivery of
bullion are not prohibited by law]. But if terms which
naturally import such a contract are used by way of evasion, and money only is intended, the law reaches the
case." Per Bradley, J., in Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall.
457, 566. Here what was intended was to assure the
payment of a money debt in dollars of a value as constant as that of gold. Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co., supra, p. 302; cf. Feist v. Socigtg Intercommunale
Belge D'Electricit6, L. R. [1934] A. C. 161, 172, 173.
The fact is of little moment that currency is characterized as a commodity in the verbiage of the covenant as
long as it is currency. Cf. Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S.
557, 561, 562. Weasel words will not avail to defeat the
triumph of intention when once the words are read in
the setting of the whole transaction. So read, the end
to be achieved is shown forth unmistakably as a payment, not a sale.
This conclusion would be necessary though the first
of the alternative forms of payment stood alone in the
indentures. The necessity becomes even plainer when
the first is considered in conjunction with the second.
The lessee at its option may pay the equivalent of the
gold "in United States currency." The presence of this
alternative gives a quietus to the argument that the
lessor was desirous of the gold as a commodity and was
bargaining therefor. If there had been any such desire,
the choice as to the forms of payment would never
have been left to the lessee, as by implication of law
it was, for a debtor, if methods of performance are alternative, may choose whichever one he pleases. 3 Williston, Contracts, § 1407; Restatement, Contracts, vol. 1,
p. 493. In point of fact, there were statutes in existence

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.

337

Opinion of the Court.

324

at the time of the default in payment that made delivery of gold impossible. Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. Co., supra, pp. 295, 296; Nortz v. United States, 294
U. S. 317, 327; 328; Perry v. United States, 294 U. S.
330, 355. The lessee would perforce have had to avail
itself of the second term of the alternatve, if it had
been able to pay at all. But if both modes of payment
had been preserved, the second equally with the first
would have been effective to dischargd the obligation.
Payment in currency, quite as much as payment in coin
or in bullion, was not only performance under the law,
but performance under the contract, provided only that
the value of the currency was equal, when paid, to the
value of the gold. Whether that proviso has been abrogated is next to be considered.
2. A contract for the payment of gold as the equivalent of money, and a fortiori a contract for the payment
of money measurable in gold, is within the letter of the
Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, and equally within
its spirit.
-The Resolution, for convenience of reference, is printed
in the margin.* Its history has been traced in Norman
* "JOINT

RESOLUTION.

"To assure uniform value to the coins and currencies of the United
States.
"Whereas the holding of or dealing in gold affect the public interest, and are therefore subject to proper regulation and restriction;
and
"Whereas the existing emergency has disclosed that provisions of
obligations which purport to give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a particular kind of coin or currency of the United
States, or in an amount in money of the United States measured
thereby, obstruct the power of the Congress to regulate the value of
the money of the United States, and are inconsistent with the declared policy of the Congress to maintain at all times the equal
power of every dollar, coined or issued by the United States, in the
markets and in the payment of debts. Now, therefore, be it
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) every ')ro.
130607°-37-

-

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U, S.

v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., supra. There is no need
to repeat what has been already done so thoroughly.
The Resolution touches gold as well as coin or currency
whenever transactions in either are within the evil to
vision contained in or made with respect to any obligation which
purports to give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a
particular kind of coin or currency, or in an amount in money of the
United States measured thereby, is declared to be against public
policy; and no such provision shall be contained in or made with
respect to any obligation hereafter incurred. Every obligation,
heretofore or hereafter incurred, whether or not any such provision is
contained therein or made with respect thereto, shall be discharged
upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which at
the time of payment is legal tender for public and private debts.
Any such provision contained in any law authorizing obligations to
be issued by or under authority of the United States, is hereby repealed, but the repeal of any such provision shall not invalidate any
other provision or authority contained in such law.
"(b) As used in this resolution, the term 'Obligation' means an
obligation (including every obligation of and to the United States
excepting currency) payable in money of the United States; and
the term 'coin or currency' means coin or currency of the United
States, including Federal Reserve notes and circulating notes of
Federal Reserve banks and national banking associations.
"See. 2. The last sentence of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of
section 43 of the Act entitled 'An Act to relieve the existing national
economic emergency by increasing agricultural purchasing power, to
raise revenue for extraordinary expenses incurred by reason of such
emergency, to provide emergency relief with respect to agricultural
indebtedness, to provide for the orderly liquidation of joint-stock
land banks, and for other purposes,' approved May 12, 1933, is
amended to read as follows:
"'All coins and currencies of the United States (including Federal
Reserve notes and circulating notes of Federal Reserve banks and
national banking associations) heretofore or hereafter coined or
issued, shall be legal tender for all debts, public and private, public
charges, taxes, duties, and dues, except that gold coins, when below
the standard weight and limit of tolerance provided by law for the
single piece, shall be legal tender only at valuation in proportion to
their actual weight.'
"Approved, June 5, 1933, 4:40 p. m."

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

339

Opinion of the Court.

be remedied. We learn from the preamble that "provisions of obligations which purport to give the obligee
a right to require payment in gold or a particular kind
of coin or currency of the United States, or in an amount
in money of the United States measured thereby, obstruct the power of the Congress to regulate the value
of the money of the United States, and are inconsistent
with the declared policy of the Congress to maintain at
all times the equal power of every dollar, coined or
issued by the United States, in the markets and in the
payment of debts." Accordingly, all such provisions
are declared to be against public policy, and every obligation, heretofore or hereafter incurred, though it contain such provisions, shall be payable, dollar for dollar,
in legal tender at the time of payment. Transactions
for the sale or delivery of gold for industrial purposes
are not within the evil to be remedied, and so are not
within the statute. Cf. Executive Order of April 5, 1933,
and August 28, 1933; Orders of the Secretary of the
Treasury, December 28, 1933 and January 15, 1934;
Emergency Banking Act of March 9, 1933, 48 Stat. 1,
2, § 3. An obligation to make delivery upon a bona fide
sale is not fairly to be classified as an obligation "payable in money" (Joint Resolution, subdivision (b)), or
so we now assume. But very definitely, the evil does
include transactions whereby gold, coined or uncoined,
is to be delivered in satisfaction of a debt expressed in
terms of dollars, payment, not sale, being then the .end
to be achieved. As definitely, indeed more obviously,
the evil includes transactions whereby a debt is to be
discharged, not in bullion, but in dollars, if the number
of the dollars is to be increased or diminished in proportion to the diminution or the increase of the gold basis
of the currency. Both forms of obligation are illustrations of the very mischief that Congress sought to hit.
3. The argument is made that in the case now before
us the currency called for by the contract is stated too

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

indefinitely to be translated, dollar for dollar, as required by the Resolution, into the legal tender of the
hour. But the difficulty is quite imaginary. Things that
are equal to the same thing are equal to each other.
There is application for the maxim here. If the currency to be paid by the lessee is to be the equivalent of
gold, and if the gold is to be the equivalent of a stated
number of gold dollars of a particular weight and fineness, then the covenant to pay the currency is tantamount to a covenant to pay the dollars, and dollars of
the stated standard. This is the obligation that respondent took upon itself when it became a party to these
leases. It is, however, the very obligation that has been
outlawed by the statute as a menace to the maintenance
of our monetary system. Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co., supra, pp. 306, 311. "Dollar for dollar," the obligation for the payment of money conforming to the standard of the covenant is to be discharged with money of
the standard established by the law.
4. The argument is made that covenants of this particular form are so rare and exceptional that the protection of the monetary system does not require their
suppression, and that arbitrary suppression is inconsistent with the Fifth Amendment. How exceptional or rare
they are, we have no means of ascertaining. For anything proved in the record or subject to judicial notice
they may be illustrations, even if verbal variants, of a
type common in the petitioner's business and indeed in
many others. But the power of the Congress is not dependent upon the results of such a census. A particular
covenant, if viewed in isolation, may have a slight, perhaps a trivial, influence upon the effectiveness and symmetry of a new monetary policy. The aggregate of many
covenants, each contributing its mite, may- bring the
system to destruction. Rivulets in combination make up
a stream of tendency that may attain engulfing power.

HOLYOKE POWER CO. v. PAPER CO.
324

341

Opinion of the Court.

No principle of constitutional law, no dictate of fair dealing, lays a duty upon the Congress to single out for
special treatment an individual or a few among the members of a common mass. Cf. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch,'
226 U. S. 192, 201. One cannot even say with reason
that the effects of this particular covenant are to be
classified as negligible. The lessee as the recipient of
principal or income must accept payment from its debtors
in the depreciated currency. It is injured, at least appreciably, if it is required to pay its creditors in dollars
of a different standard. Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co., supra, p. 315. Receipts and disbursements are no
longer on a common basis.
5. In last analysis, the case for the petitioner amounts
to little more than this, that the effect of the Resolution
in its application to these leases is t o make the value of
the dollars fluctuate with variations in the weight and
fineness of the monetary standard, and thus defeat the
expectation of the parties that the standard would be
constant and the value relatively stable. Such, indeed, is
the effect, and the covenant of the parties is to that exent
abortive. But the disappointment of expectations and
even the frustration of contracts may be a lawful exercise
of power when expectation and contract are in conflict
with the public welfare. "Contracts may create rights of
property, but when contracts deal with a subject matter
which lies within the control of the Congress, they have
a congenital infirmity." Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co., supra, pp. 307, 308. To that congenital infirmity
this covenant succumbs.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
dissent.

