HENNEFORD v. SILAS MASON CO.
Syllabus.

HENNEFORD ET AL. v. SILAS MASON CO., INC.
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 418.

Argued December 14, 15, 1936. Reargued March 1, 2,
1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. When goods imported in interstate commerce have become part
of the common mass of property within the State of destination,
that State may subject them to a property tax, or to a tax upon
their use. P. 582.
The privilege of use is only one of the privileges that make
up property or ownership. A State is at liberty to tax them all
collectively or tax them separately, and calling a tax on the use
alone an excise does not affect its validity under the commerce
clause.
2. A Washington statute provides that after May 1, 1935, every
retail sale of tangible personal property made in that State (with
some enumerated exceptions) shall be subject to a tax of .2% of
the selling price; it also lays a tax or excise, called "compensation
tax," on the privilege of using within the State any article of
tangible personal property, purchased at retail after April 30,
1935, at the rate of 2% of the purchase price, including in such
price the cost of transportation from the place where the article
was purchased; but the compensation tax is not to apply to the
use of any article the sale or use of which has already been
subjected to a tax equal to or in excess of 2% whether such prior
tax was under the laws of Washington or those of some other
State; and, if the rate of such other tax is less than 2%, the
Washington use tax rate is to be measured by the difference. In
practical effect the use tax helps retail sellers in Washington to
compete upon terms of equality with retail dealers in other States
who are exempt from a sales tax or any corresponding burden, and
tends to avoid a drain upon the revenues of the State through
the placing of orders in other States to escape the taxes on local
sales. Held, as applied to machinery and other things purchased
in other States but which had had continuous use in Washington
long after the time when delivery there was over:
(1) That the use tax is not upon the operations of interstate
commerce, but upon the privilege of use after commerce is at an
end. P. 582.
130607°-37-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

(2) The tax upon the use after the property is at rest is not
so measured or conditioned as to hamper the transactions of
interstate commerce or discriminate against them. P. 583.
(3) Reading the statute as not taxing the use of articles manufactured by the users, or received as legacies or acquired in any
other way except purchase at retail, does not make the tax on use
in fact a tax on the foreign sales. P. 587.
3. Motives leading to its adoption can seldom, if ever, invalidate a
lax which, apart from motives, would be recognized as lawful.
P. 586.
4. A legislature has a wide range of choice in classifying and limiting
the subjects of taxation. The choice is as broad where the tax
is laid upon one or a few of the attributes of ownership as when
laid upon them all. P. 587.
15 F. Supp. 958, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, holding unconstitutional a tax on the use of chattels bought in other States and brought into the State of
Washington and used there. The suit was by the taxpayer to enjoin the Tax Commission of Washington from
collecting the tax.

Mr. R. G. Sharpe, Assistant Attorney General of Washington, with whom Mr. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. B. H. Kizer, with whom Mr. W. G. Graves was on
the brief, for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE

CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Washington taxing the use of chattels in
that state is assailed in this suit as a violation of the
commerce clause (Constitution of the United States,
Article I, § 8) in so far as the tax is applicable to chattels purchased in another state and used in Washington
thereafter.

HENNEFORD v. SILAS MASON CO.
577

Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiffs (appellees in this court) are engaged either
as contractors or as subcontractors in the construction of
the Grand Coulee Dam on the Columbia River. In
the performance of that work they have brought into
the state of Washington machinery, materials and supplies, such as locomotives, cars, conveyors, pumps, and
trestle steel, which were bought at retail in other states.
The cost of all the articles with transportation expenses
added was $921,189.34. Defendants, the Tax Commission of Washington (appellants in this court) gave notice
that plaintiffs had become subject through the use of
this property to a tax of $18,423.78, two per cent of the
cost, and made demand for payment. A District Court
of three judges, organized in accordance with § 266 of
the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 380), adjudged the statute void upon its face, and granted an interlocutory
injunction, one judge dissenting. 15 F. Supp. 958. The
case is here upon appeal. 28 U. S. C. § 380.
Chapter 180 of the L: s of Washington for the year
1935, consisting of twciLy titles, lays a multitude of
excise taxes on occupations and activities. Only two of
these taxes are important for the purposes of the case
at hand, the "tax on retail sales," imposed by Title III,
and the "compensating tax," imposed by Title IV on the
privilege of use. Title III provides that after May 1,
1935, every retail sale in Washington, with a few enumerated exceptions,1 shall be subject to a tax of 2% of
"Sec. 19. The tax hereby levied shall not apply to the following
sales:
"(a) Casual and isolated sales by'a person who is not engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property at retail;

"(b) Sales made by persons in the course of business activities with
respect to which tax liability, is specifically imposed under title V of
this act, when the gross proceeds from such sales must be included in
the measure of the tax imposed under said title V;
"(c) The distribution and news stand sale of newspapers;

OCTOBER TERM. 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

the selling price. Title IV, with the heading "compensating tax," provides (§§ 31, 35) that there shall be
collected from every person in the state "a tax or excise
for the privilege of using within this state any article of
tangible personal property purchased subsequent to
April 30, 1935," at the rate of 2% of the purchase price,
including in such price the cost of transportation from
the place where the article was purchased. If those provisions stood alone, they would mean that retail buyers
within the state would have to pay a double tax, 2%
upon the sale and 2% upon the use. Relief from such a
burden is provided in another section (§ 32) which qualifies the use tax by allowing four exceptions. Only two
of these exceptions (b and c) call for mention at this
time.2 Subdivision (b) provides that the use tax shall
not be laid unless the property has been bought at retail. Subdivision (c) provides that the tax shall not
"(d) Sales which the State of Washington is prohibited from taxing under the constitution of this state or the constitution or laws of
the United States;
"(e) Sales of motor vehicle fuel taxable under chapter 58 of the
Laws of 1933, section 5 (being Rem. Rev. Stat., section 8327-5);
"(f) Sales made on relief vouchers issued by the department of
public welfare or by any county or city or other welfare agency;
"(g) Sales of fresh sweet milk, raw unprocessed fruits and vegetables, butter, eggs, cheese, canned milk and unsweetened bread in
loaf form (including rolls and buns), sold for consumption off the
premises."
2 For greater certainty exceptions (a) and (d) are stated in this
note:
"The provisions of this title shall not apply:
"(a) In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property brought into the State of Washington by a non-resident thereof
for his or her use or enjoyment while within the state;
"(d) In respect to the use of tangible personal pxopertZ purchased
during any calendar month, the total purchase price of which is less
than twenty ($20.00) dollars,"

HENNEFORD v. SILAS MASON CO.
577

Opinion of the Court.

apply to the "use of any article of tangible personal
property the sale or use of which has already been subjected to a tax equal to or in excess of that imposed by
this title whether under the laws of this state or of some
other state of the United States." If the rate of such
other tax is less than 2%, the exemption is not to be complete (§ 33), but in such circumstances the rate is to be
measured by the difference.
The plan embodied in these provisions is neither hidden
nor uncertain. A use tax is never payable where the user
has acquired property by retail purchase in the state of
Washington, except in the rare instances in which retail
purchases in Washington are not subjected to a sales tax.
On the other hand, a use tax is always payable where the
user has acquired property by retail purchase in or from
another state, unless he has paid a sales or use tax elsewhere before bringing it to Washington. The tax presupposes everywhere a retail purchase by the user before the
time of use. If he has manufactured the chattel for himself, or has received it from the manufacturer as a legacy
or gift, he is exempt from the use tax, whether title was
acquired in Washington or elsewhere. The practical effect of a system thus conditioned is readily perceived.
One of its effects must be that retail sellers in Washington
will be helped to compete upon terms of equality with
retail dealers in other states who are exempt from a sales
tax or any corresponding burden. Another effect, or at
least another tendency, must be to avoid the likelihood of
a drain upon the revenues of the state, buyers being no
longer tempted to place their orders in other states in the
effort to escape payment of the tax on local sales. Do
these consequences which must have been foreseen, necessitate a holding that the tax upon the use is either a
tax upon the operations of interstate commerce or a discrimination against such commerce obstructing or burdening it unlawfully?

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

1. The tax is not upon the operations of interstate commerce, but upon the privilege of use after commerce is at
an end.
Things acquired or transported in interstate commerce
may be subjected to a property tax, non-discriminatory in
its operation, when they have become part of the common
mass of property within the state of destination. Wiloil
Corp. v. Pennsylvania,294 U. S. 169,175; Cudahy Packing
Co. v. Minnesota,246 U. S. 450, 453; Brown-FormanCo. v.
Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563, 575; American Steel & Wire Co.
v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 519; Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall.
123, 137. This is so, indeed, though they are still in the
original packages. Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S.
506; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, supra; Woodruff v. Parham,supra. For like reasons they may be subjected, when once they are at rest, to a non-discriminatory
tax upon use or enjoyment. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 267; Edelman v. Boeing Air
Transport,Inc., 289 U. S. 249, 252; Monamotor Oil Co. v.
Johnson,292 U. S. 86, 93. The privilege of use is only one
attribute, among many, of the bundle of privileges that
make up property or ownership. Nashville, C. & St. L.
Ry. Co. v. Wallace, supra; Bromley v. McCaughn, 280
U. S. 124, 136-138; Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 678.
A state is at liberty, if it pleases, to tax them all collectively, or to separate the faggots and lay the charge distributively. Ibid. Calling the tax an excise when it is
laid solely upon the use (Vancouver Oil Co. v. Henneford,
183 Wash. 317; 49 P. (2d) 14) does not make the power
to impose it less, for anything the commerce clause has to
say of its validity, than calling it a property tax and laying it on ownership. "A nondiscriminatory tax upon local
sales . . . has never been regarded as imposing a direct
burden upon interstate commerce and has no greater or
different effect upon that commerce than a general property tax to which all those enjoying the protection of the

HENNEFORD v. SILAS MASON CO.
577

Opinion of the Court.

State may be subjected." Eastern Air Transport,Inc. v.
South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 285 U. S. 147, 153. A tax
upon the privilege of use or storage when the chattel used
or stored has ceased to be in transit is now an impost so
common that its validity has been withdrawn from the
arena of debate. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, supra; Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport,Inc., supra;
Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, supra. Cf. Vancouver
Oil Co. v. Henneford, supra.
The case before us does not call for approval or disapproval of the definition of use or enjoyment in the rules
of the Commission. Those rules inform us that "property
is put to use by the first act after delivery is completed
within the state by which the article purchased is actually
used or is made available for use with intent actually to
use the same within the state. The term 'made available
for use' means and includes the exercise of any right or
power over tangible personal property preparatory to actual use within the state, such as keeping, storing, withdrawing from storage, moving, installing or performing
any act by which ddminion or control over the property
is assumed by the purchaser." A tax upon a use so closely
connected with delivery as to be in substance a part thereof
might be subject to the same objections that would be
applicable to a tax upon the sale itself. If the rules are
too drastic in that respect or others, the defect is unimportant in relation to this case. Here the machinery and
other chattels subjected to the tax have had continuous
use in Washington long after the time when delivery was
over. The plaintiffs are not the champions of any rights
except their own.
2. The tax upoi the use after the property is at rest
is not so measured or conditioned as to hamper the transactions of interstate commerce or discriminate against
them.
Equality is the theme that runs through all the sections
of the statute. There shall be a tax upon the use, but sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

ject to an offset if another use or sales tax has been paid
for the same thing. This is true where the offsetting tax
became payable to Washington by reason of purchase or
'use within the state. It is true in exactly the same measure where the offsetting tax has been paid to another state
by reason of use or purchase there. No one who uses property in Washington after buying it at retail is to be exempt
from a tax upon the privilege of enjoyment except to the
extent that he has paid a use or sales tax somewhere.
Every one who has paid a use or sales tax anywhere, or,
more accurately, in any state, is to that extent to be exempt
from the payment of another tax in Washington.
When the account is made up, the stranger from afar
is subject to no greater burdens as a consequence of ownership than the dweller within the gates. The one pays
upon one activity or incident, and the other upon another,
but the sum is the same when the reckoning is closed.
Equality exists when the chattel subjected to the use tax
is bought in another state and then carried into Washington. It exists when the imported chattel is shipped
from the state of origin under an order received directly
from the state of destination. In each situation the burden borne by the owner is balanced by an equal burden
where the sale is strictly local. "There-is no demand
in . . . [the] Constitution that the State shall put its
requirements in any one statute. It may distribute them
as it sees fit, if the result, taken in its totality, is within the
State's constitutional power." Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query,
286 U. S.472, 480. If the sales tax were abolished, the
buyer in Washington would pay at once upon the use.
He would have no longer an' offsetting credit. While the
sales tax is in force, he pays upon the sale, and pays at
the same rate. For the owner who uses after buying from
afar the effect is all one whether his competitor is taxable
under one title or another. This common sense conclusion
has ample precedent behind it. Alabama laid a tax on

HENNEFORD v. SILAS MASON CO.
577

Opinion of the Court.

the sale of spirituous liquors, the products of sister states.
Comparing the tax with others applicable to domestic
products, the court upheld the statute. The methods of
collection were different, but the taxes were complementary and were intended to effect equality.- Hinson'v. Lott,
8 Wall. 148. Louisiana laid a tax in lieu of local taxes on
rolling stock operated within the state, but belonging to
corporations domiciled elsewhere. The court compared
the tax with the local taxes upon residents, and found discrimination lacking. General American Tank CarCorp. v.
Day, 270 U. S. 367, 372, 373. South Carolina laid a tax
on the storage of gasoline brought from other states and
held for use in local business. The statute was interpreted
by the state court as covering "all gasoline stored for use
and consumption upon which a like tax has not been paid
under other statutes." Upon comparison of all the statutes, the impost was upheld. The taxpayers had "failed
to show that whatever distinction there existed in form,
there was any substantial discrimination in fact." Gregg
Dyeing Co. v. Query, supra.
Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S.511, is invoked
by appellees as decisive of the controversy, but the dase is
far apart from this one. There a statute of New York had
made provision for a minimum price to be paid by dealers
in milk to producers in that state. Cf. Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502; Hegeman Farms Corp. v. Baldwin,
293 U. S.163. The same statute provided that when milk
from another state had been brought into New York, the
dealer should be prohibited from selling it at any price
unless in buying the milk from the out-of-state producer
he had paid the price that would be necessary if he had
bought within the state. New York was attempting to
project its legislation within the borders of another state
by regulating the price to be paid in that state for milk
acquired there.: She said in effect to farmers in Vermont:
your milk cannot be sold by dealers to whom you shiy it in

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

New York unless you sell it-to them in Vermont at a price
determined here. What Washington is saying to sellers
beyond her borders is something very different. In substance what she says is this: You may ship your goods in
such amounts and at such prices as you please, but the
goods when used in Washington after the transit is completed, will share an equal burden with goods that have
been purchased here.
We are told that a tax upon the use, even though not
unlawful by force of its effects alone, is vitiated by the
motives that led to its adoption. These motives cause it
to be stigmatized as equivalent to a protective tariff. But
motives alone will seldom, if ever, invalidate a tax that
apart from its ,motives would be recognized as lawful.
Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, 44; Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 100, 101. Least of all will they
be permitted to accomplish that result when equality and.
not preference is the end to be achieved. Catch words
and labels, such as the words "protective tariff," are subject to the dangers that lurk in metaphors and symbols,
and must be watched with circumspection lest they put us
off our guard. A tariff, whether protective or for revenue,
burdens the very act of importation, and if laid by a state
upon its commerce with another is equally unlawful
whether protection or revenue is the motive back of it.
But a tax upon use, or, what is equivalent for present purposes, a tax upon property after importation is over, is not
a clog upon the process of importation at all, any more
than a tax upon the income or profits of a business. The
contention would be futile that Washington in laying an
ownership tax would be doing a wrong to non-residents in
allowing a credit for a sales tax already borne by the owner
as a result of the same ownership. To contend this would
be to deny that a state may develop its scheme of taxation in such a way as to rid its exactions of unnecessary
oppression. In the statute in dispute such a scheme has

HENNEFORD v. SILAS MASON CO.
577

Opinion of the Court.

been developed with sedulous regard for every interest
affected. Yet a word of caution should be added here to
avoid the chance of misconception. We have not meant
to imply by anything said in this opinion that allowance
of a credit for other taxes paid to Washington made it
mandatory that there should be a like allowance for taxes
paid to other states. A state, for many purposes, is to be
reckoned as a self-contained unit, which may frame its
own system of burdens and exemptions without heeding
systems elsewhere. If there are limits to that power,
there is no need to mark them now. It will be time
enough to mark them when a taxpayer paying in the state
of origin is compelled to pay again in the state of destination. This statute by its framework avoids that possibility. The offsetting allowance has been conceded, whether
the concession was necessary or not, and thus the system
has been divested of any semblance of inequality or prejudice. A taxing act is not invalid because its exemptions
are more generous than the state would have been
free to make them by exerting the full measure of
her power.
Finally, there is argument that the tax now in question,
though in form upon the use, was in fact upon the foreign
sale, and not upon the use at all, the form being a subterfuge. The supposed basis for that argument is a reading
of the statute whereby the use shall not be taxable if the
chattel was manufactured by the user or received as a
legacy or acquired in any way except through the medium
of purchase, and a retail one at that. But the fact that
the legislature has chosen to lay a tax upon the use of
chattels that have been bought does not make the tax
upon the use a tax upon the sale. One could argue with
as much reason that there would be a tax upon the sale
if a property tax were limited to chattels so acquired. A
legislature has a wide range of choice in classifying and
limiting the subjects of taxation. Bell's Gap R. Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232, 237; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway,
281 U. S. 146, 159. The choice is as broad where the tax
is laid upon one or a few of the attributes of ownership as
when laid upon them all. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107, 158, 159. True, collections might be larger if
the use were not dependent upon a prior purchase by the
user. On the other hand., economy in administration or
a fairer distribution of social benefits and burdens may
have been promoted when the lines were drawn as they
were. Such questions of fiscal policy will not be answered
by a court. The legislature might make the tax base as
broad or as narrow as it pleased.
The interlocutory injunction was erroneously granted.
and the decree must be
Reversed.
'MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 500.

Argued March 2, 3, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. A payment by the Government of money due on a construction

contract, made to one who collected it under a power of attorney
and letter from the contractor intended to operate as an assignment (contrary to R. S., § 3477), is to be regarded as payment
to the contractor through his representative. P. 594.
2. The provisions of R. S., § 3477; 31 U. S. C. 203, declaring all
assignments of any claim upon the United States "absolutely null
and void" unless made after the allowance of such claim, the
asceitainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant
for the payment thereof, are provisions for the protection of the
0overnment, and not for the regulation of the equities of claim'ants growing out of irregular assignments, when collection is com/ plete and the Government's liability ended. P. 594.

