A., T. & S. F. RY. v. SCARLETT.

471

Counsel for Parties.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO. v.
SCARLETT.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 505.

Argued March 3, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. A regulation prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission
in pursuance of constitutional statutory authority, has the same
force as though prescribed in terms by the statute. P. 474.
2. In an action under the Federal Safety Appliance Act against a
railroad company to recover damages for personal injuries resulting from an alleged violation of the Act, the judgment of the
trial court and jury cannot be substituted for that of the Interstate Commerce Commission on the question as to what constitutes
compliance with its regulations. P. 474.
3. The Federal Safety Appliance Act provides that cari requiring
"secure" ladders shall be so equipped. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, issued pursuant to the Act, requires
such ladders to have a minimum clearance of treads of "two, preferably two and one-half inches." Held:
(1) A side ladder of a freight car complied with the Act, though
between it and the side of the car was a diagonal brace rod, which
the ladder cleared by two and three-quarter inches. P. 474.
(2) The brace rod was not a part of the ladder. P. 474.
(3) Long-continued use of brace rods of the type here involved,
in the same relation to the ladder, without change of its order by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, is persuasive that the Act
and the order were not violated. P. 474.
(4) The right of recovery, if any, in this case must be governed
not by the Safety Appliance Act but by the common law rule of
negligence. P. 475.
7 Cal. (2d) 181; 60 P. (2d) 462, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

299 U. S. 537, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a judgment against the railroad company in an action
under the Federal Safety Appliance Act.
Messrs. H. K. Lockwood and Robert Brennan, with
whom Mr. Charles H. Woods was on the brief, for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Mr. Louis E. Goodman, with whom Mr. Herman A.
Bachrack was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action under the Federal Safety Appliance

Act (Act of April 14, 1910, c. 160, §§ 2 and 3, 36 Stat.
298*), brought by Scarlett against the railway company
to recover damages for a personal injury resulting from
an alleged violation of the act. It also was generally
alleged that the injury was due to the negligence of the
railway company. Scarlett was employed as a brakeman.
While descending from a box car by means of a ladder
attached to the side of the car, his foot slipped on a
round brace rod, also attached to the side of the car immediately behind the ladder, and he fell to the ground,
thereby sustaining the injury for which damages were
sought.
The ladder itself was not defective. In its structure it
complied with the regulations of the Interstate Commerce
Commission made in pursuance of the act. "United
States Safety-appliance Standards"-order of March 13,
1911. It is unnecessary to set forth these regulations.
The only one important here prescribes-"Minimum
clearance of treads, [shall be] two (2), preferably two*Section 2, so far as pertinent, provides that ". . . all cars requir.
ing secure ladders and secure running boards shall be equipped with
such ladders and running boards, and all cars having ladders shall
also be equipped with secure hand holds or grab irons on their roofs
at the tops of such ladders: ..."
Section 3 requires the Interstate Commerce Commission, within a
time fixed, to designate the number, dimensions, location and manner
of application of the appliances provided for in the foregoing section.

And these designations were to "remain as the standards of equipment to be used on all cars subject to the provisions of this Act, unless
cha, gC by an order of said Interstate Commerce Commission ..."

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. SCARLETT.
471

Opinion of the Court.

and-one-half (21/2), inches." The round brace rods with
which the car was equipped extended outward from the
wall of the car a distance of more than an inch. These
brace rods operated to strengthen the walls of the car.
That was their only purpose; and there is no doubt as
to their necessity for that purpose. The brace rod in
question ran down the side of the car at an angle of about
450. The ladder overlay the brace rod, and cleared its
outermost surface by more than the prescribed 21/2
inches.
Scarlett's contention is that the brace rod is a part of
the ladder, and by reason of its slant and rounded shape
made the descent of the ladder insecure. At the trial,
he abandoned his claim based upon negligence, and put
his case wholly on the ground that the round diagonal
brace rod and the ladder combined to constitute an unsafe appliance within the meaning of the act, and that,
in consequence, the liability of the railway company was
absolute. The case was submitted to the jury by the
trial court upon that theory, and a verdict and judgment
against the company resulted. That judgment the court
below affirmed on appeal. 7 Cal. (2d) 181; 60 P. (2d)
462.
The record shows that brace rods, generally flat in
shape, are in practically universal use on box cars. The
company here formerly used a flat rod; but finding that
such a rod frequently buckled, sometimes immediately
under the ladder, it was abandoned and the stronger and
less elastic round type was adopted in its place. This was
in 1924; and the proof shows that for many years cars so
equipped have been in general and constant operation on
its lines. The general foreman of the company, having
charge of all the car repairs at one of the principal shops,
and who inspected a thousand cars each month, testified
that he had never heard of an accident attributable or
claimed to be attributable to the round brace rod, except

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

in the present case. The record shows nothing to the
contrary.
In the light of the long-continued use of brace rods
of the type here in question in the same relation to the
ladder as is the case here, we may fairly presume that the
Interstate Commerce Commission in the performance of
its duties was aware of the situation, and knowingly permitted its rule in respect of the ladder clearance to remain without change. Compare Pennell v. Philadelphia
& Reading Ry., 231 U. S. 675, 680. The regulation having been made by the commission in pursuance of constitutional statutory authority, it has the same force as
though prescribed in terms by the statute. And the railway company having strictly complied with the regulation has discharged its full duty so far as the ladder requirement of the Safety Appliance Act is concerned.
The judgment of the trial court and jury cannot be substituted for that of the commission. See Kansas City
So. Ry. v. United States, 231 U. S. 423, 456-457; Napier v.
Atlantic Coast Line, 272 U. S. 605, 611-612; Mahutga v.
Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co., 182 Minn. 362,
366; 234 N. W. 474; Auschwitz v. Wabash Ry. Co., 346
Ill. 190, 204; 178 N. E. 403; Ford v. New York, N. H. &
H. R. Co., 54 F. (2d) 342, 343.
In Illinois Central R. Co. v. Williams, 242 U. S. 462,
466, we held that § 2 of the act requiring secure ladders,
etc., was operative pending action by the Interstate Commerce Commission under § 3. In the interim, we said,
§ 2 had the effect of prescribing an absolute and imperative duty, of making the ladders and other appliances
"secure"; but that § 3 contemplated that these appliances "shall ultimately conform to a standard to be prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission, that is,
that they shall be standardized . . ."
We do not see how it reasonably can be said that the
brace rod constitutes a part of the ladder. In itself, it

AMERICAN PROPELLER CO. v. U. S.

475

Syllabus.

471

was a contrivance separate and distinct from the ladder,
designed and used for a purpose entirely apart from the
use of that appliance. The right of recovery, if any, must,
therefore, rest upon the effect of the near proximity of
the ladder to the rod, neither being in itself defective.
The law to be applied to that situation is the commonlaw rule ofi negligence, and not the inflexible rule of the
Safety Appliance Act; and the questions to bie answered
are whether the two appliances were maintained in such
relation to one another as to constitute negligence on
the part of the company and, if so, whether Scarlett assumed the risk. Ford v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co.,
supra;Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Benson, 352 Ill. 195,
199; 185 N. E. 244; Slater v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry.
Co., 146 Minn. 390, 392-393; 178 N. W. 813. In that
view, Scarlett in abandoning his claim under the common-law rule of negligence abandoned the only possible
ground of recovery.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
AMERICAN

PROPELLER & MANUFACTURING
CO. v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 605.

Argued March 12, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. In a suit in the Court of Claims, a recovery by the United States
on a counterclaim, which is clearly unjust and inequitable to the
claimant, should not be allowed unless under plain compulsion
of law. P. 478.
2. Interest upon the Government's counterclaim for taxes, under the
circumstances of this case, should not have been allowed. P. 478.
In 1924, the Government was indebted to a claimant in the
sum of $119,413.04, against which there was at the same time a just
counterclaim of $82,701.29. The inequity of allowing the Govern-

