WAYNE COUNTY v. GREAT LAKES CORP.
26

29

Opinion of the Court.

ยง 25 (a). The Circuit Court of Appeals should have
entertained the appeal and disposed of it upon the
merits.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

WAYNE COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW

ET AL. V.

GREAT LAKES STEEL CORP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 253.

Argued January 12, 13, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

A statute of Michigan establishing a county board of review of
tax assessments, applicable only to counties having a population
in excess of 500,000, violates ยง 30 of Art. V of the Michigan constitution, which forbids the passing of a local or special Act in
any case where a general Act can be made applicable.
12 F. Supp. 55, affirmed.

Messrs. Albert E. Champney and Oscar A. Kaufman,
with whom Mr. Jason L. Honigman was on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Prewitt Semmes, with whom Mr. Elmer R. Milburn was on the brief, for appellee.
PER CURIAM.

Appellee brought this suit to restrain the enforcement,
in relation to an assessment upon its property, of a
statute of Michigan establishing a county board of review. Act No. 33, Public Acts of Michigan, First Extra
Session, 1934.
The Act established a county board of review of assessments for counties having a population in excess of

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

500,000. The Act was attacked as invalid under both
the state and federal constitutions. Interlocutory and
permanent injunctions were sought. The District Court,
three Judges sitting (2,8 U. S. C. 380), held that the
requisite jurisdictional amount was in controversy and
that there was ground for the exercise of equitable jurisdiction.
With respect to the state constitution, appellee contended that the statute, by reason of the requirement as
to population, was limited in effect to Wayne County
and thus was a local and special act in a case where a
general act could be made applicable, and violated ยง 30
of Article V of the constitution of Michigan, which
provides:
"The legislature shall pass no local or special act in
any case where a general act can be made applicable, and
whether a general act can be made applicable shall be a
judicial question."
The District Court of the Eastern District of Michigan, composed of three judges especially versed in ,the
jurisprudence of the State, sustained that contention and
granted a permanent injunction. 12 F. Supp. 55. We
are unable to conclude that the court erred in deciding
this question of state law and we accordingly affirm its
decree.
Decree affirmed.

