PHELPS v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.

319

Statement of the Case.

PHELPS v. BOARD OF EDUCATION OF WEST
NEW YORK

ET

AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 454. Argued February 4, 5, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.
1. Where it is claimed that a contractual right was created by a
state statute and impaired by a later one, this Court will give
much weight to the construction put upon the earlier statute by
the state court, though not bound by it. P. 322.
2. The provisions of c. 243, New Jersey Laws, 1909, forbidding removal of public school teachers who have served three years, or reduction of their salaries, except for causes specified and after
notice and hearing, did not create contracts with individual teachers but was merely a limitation upon the authority of the boards
of education with respect to the tenure and salaries of teachers.
P. 323.
3. The stipulated facts of this case do not show contracts between
the boards of education and teachers for service of the teachers
beyond the current year. P. 323.
4. No arbitrary discrimination, violative of the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, is attributable to a method
of reducing the salaries of school teachers by dividing the salaries
into several groups in order of amounts, and applying reduction
percentages, ascending from the lowest group to the highest, although it result in some instances that a teacher receiving the lowest salary in his group will have his salary reduced to a figure lower
than the reduced compensation of one receiving the highest compensation in the next lower group. P. 323.
116 N. J. L. 412, 185 Atl. 8; 116 N. J. L. 416, 184 Atl. 737, affirmed.
APPEALS

from the affirmance by the court below of

judgments of the Supreme Court of New Jersey (115
N. J. L. 310; 180 Atl. 220), which had affirmed, on certiorari, the action of the State Board of Education in a
Together with No. 455, Askam et al. v. Board of Education of
West New York et al. Appeal from the Court of Errors and Appeals
of New Jersey.
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

controversy over reductions in the pay of principals,
teachers and clerks, employed in the pubric schools.
Mr. Robert H. McCarter, with whom Mr. Ward J.
Herbert was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Saul Nemser for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The people of New Jersey have ordained by their constitution that the legislature "shall provide for the maintenance and support of a thorough and efficient system
of free public schools" . . .' In fulfillment of this command a comprehensive school law was adopted in 1903
by which boards of education were set up for cities, towns,
and school districts throughout the state.! Section 106
empowered these boards to make rules and regulations
governing engagement and employment of teachers and
principals, terms and tenure of such employment, promotion, and dismissal, salaries and their time and mode
of payment, and to change and repeal such rules and
regulations from time to time.' This general school law
was amended by the act of April 21, 1909," § 1 of which
provides:
"The service of all teachers, principals, supervising
principals of the public schools in any school district of
this State shall be during good behavior and efficiency,
after the expiration of a period of employment of three
consecutive years in that district, unless a shorter period
is fixed by the employing board; . . . No principal or
'Art. IV, § VII, 6, 1 N. J. Comp. St. p. lxxv.
2
Act of Oct. 19, 1903; Laws of N. J. 1904, 5; 4 N. J. Comp. St.
4724.
84 N. J. Comp. St. 4762.
Chap. 243 N. J. Laws 1909, Pamph. L. p. 398, 4 N. J. Comp
St. 4763, 4764.

PHELPS v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
319

321

Opinion of the Court.

teacher shall be dismissed or subjected to reduction of
salary in said school district except for inefficiency, incapacity, conduct unbecoming a teacher or other just
cause, and after a written charge of the cause or causes
shall have been preferred against him or her, . . . and
after the charge shall have been examined into and found
true in fact by said Board of Education, upon reasonable
notice to the person charged, who may be represented by
counsel at the hearing. . ....
An Act of February 4, 1933,' premising that existing
economic conditions require that boards of education be
enabled ,to fix and determine the amount of salary to be
paid to persons holding positions in the respective 'school
districts, authorizes each board to fix and determine salaries to be paid officers and employes for the period
July 1, 1933, to July 1, 1934, "notwithstanding any such
person be under tenure"; prohibits increase of salaries
within the period named; forbids discrimination between
individuals in the same class of service in the fixing of
salaries or compensation; .and sets a minimum beyond
which boards may not go in the reduction of salaries.
June 23, 1933, the board adopted a resolution reducing
salaries for the school year July 1, 1933, to July 1, 1934,
by a percentage of the existing salaries graded upward
in steps as the salaries increased in amount, except with
respect to clerks, the compensation of each of whom was
reduced to a named amount.
Appellants, who were principals, teachers, and clerks
employed by the appellee, petitioned the Department of
Public Instruction, in accordance with the school law,
praying that the action of the board be set aside. The
Commissioner of Education dismissed the petition and,
upon appeal from his action, the State Board of Education affirmed the decision. The appellants applied for
certiorari from the Supreme Court, assigning among other
Chap. 12, N. J. Laws 1933, Pamph. L. p. 24.
130607°-37-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

reasons that the decision violated Art. I, § 10, and §1 of
the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Federal Constitution.
The writs ' issued and, after hearing, the court affirmed
the action of the administrative tribunal.7 The Court of
Errors and Appeals affirmed the judgment upon the opinion of the Supreme Court
The position of the appellants is that by virtue of the
Act of 1909 three years of service under contract confer
upon an employe of a school district a contractual status
indefinite in duration which the legislature is powerless
to alter or to authorize the board of education to alter.
The Supreme Court holds that the Act of 1909 "established a legislative status for teachers, but we fail to
see that it established a contractual one that the legislature may not modify. . . . The status of tenure teachers, while in one sense perhaps contractual, is in essence
dependent on a statute, like that of the incumbent of
a statutory office, which the legislature at will may abolish, or whose emoluments it may change."
This court is not bound by the decision of a state court
as to the existence and terms of a contract, the obligation
of which is asserted to be impaired, but where a statute
is claimed to create a contractual right we give weight
to the construction of the statute by the courts of the
state.' Here those courts have concurred in holding that
the act of 1909 did not amount to a legislative contract
'Two writs were issued.

The only difference between the two

cases, which were heard as one, is that in the Phelps case the employe refused to accept the reduced salary. In the case of Askam
et al., the employes took the reduced salary under protest.
'115 N. J. Law 310; 180 Atl. 220.

'116 N. J. Law 412, 185 At. 8; 116 N. J. Law 416, 184 Atl. 737.
"Freeport Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587, 595; Tampa
Water Works Co. v. Tampa, 199 U. S. 241, 243; Milwaukee Electric
R. & L. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 238 U. S. 174, 184; Seton Hall
College v. South Orange, 242 U. S. 100, 103; Coombes v. Getz, 285
U. S. 434, 441.

PHELPS v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
319

323

Opinion of the Court.

with the teachers of the state and did not become a term
of the contracts entered into with employes by boards
of education. Unless these views are palpably erroneous
we should accept them.
It appears from a stipulation of facts submitted in
lieu of evidence that after a teacher has served in a
school district under yearly contracts for three years it
has not been customary to enter into further formal contracts with such teacher. From time to time, however,
promotions were granted and salary raised for the ensuing year by action of the board. In the case of many
of the appellants there have been several such increases
in salary.
Although after the expiration of the first three years
of service the employe continued in his then position
and at his then compensation unless and until promoted
or given an increase in salary for a succeeding year, we
find nothing in the record to indicate that the board was
bound by contract with the teacher for more than the
current year. The pmploye assumed no binding obligation to remain in service beyond that term. Although
the act of 1909 prohibited the board, a creature of the
state, from reducing the teacher's salary or discharging
him without cause, we agree with the courts below that
this was but a regulation of the conduct of the board
and not a term of a continuing contract of indefinite
duration with the individual teacher.
The resolution of June 23, 1933, grouped the existing
salaries paid by the board into six classes the lowest of
which comprised salaries between Twelve hundred dollars and Nineteen hundred and ninety-nine dollars; and
the highest included salaries ranging between Four thousand dollars and Fifty-six hundred dollars. The reduction in the lowest class for the coming year was ten per
cent; that in the highest class fifteen per cent. Salaries in the intermediate classes were reduced eleven,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

twelve, thirteen, and fourteen per cent. It resulted that
in some instances a teacher receiving the lowest salary
in a given bracket would have his compensation reduced
to a figure lower than the reduced compensation of one
receiving the highest salary in the next lower bracket.
From this circumstance it is argued that the board's
action arbitrarily discriminated between the employes
and so denied them the equal protection of the laws
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
We think it was reasonable and proper that the teachers employed by the board should be divided into classes
for the application of the percentage reduction. All in
a given class were treated alike. Incidental individual
inequality resulting in some instances from the operation
of the plan does not condemn it as an unreasonable or
arbitrary method of dealing with the problem of general
salary reductions or deny the equality guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment.

Judgments affirmed.
HOLYOKE WATIER POWER CO. v. AMERICAN
WRITING PAPER CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 180.

TO THE rIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Argued December 11, 1936.-Decided March 1, 1937.

Leases of water-power rights to be enjoyed in perpetuity provided
that the grantee should pay as rent "a quantity of gold which
shall be equal in amount to" a stated number of "dollars of the
gold coin of the United States of the standard of weight and
fineness of the year 1894, or the equivalent of this commodity
in United States currency." In 1894, and continuously thereafter
till January 31, 1934, the statutory gold content of the dollar was
twenty-five and eight-tenths grains of gold, nine-tenths fine. Since
January 31, 1934, by force of the Gold Reserve Act of that year
and the order of the President thereunder, the gold content of the
dollar has been fixed to consist of fifteen and five twenty-firsts

