BLAIR v. COMMISSIONER.

5

Syllabus.

Illuminating Oil Co. v. Board of Equalization, supra, p.
327. In those circumstances the tax was regarded as an
attempt to tax an agency of the federal government.
Emphasizing that distinction, we said in reference to the
Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Company: "Such immunity as petitioner enjoyed as a governmental instrumentality inhered in its operations as such, and being for
the protection of the Government in its function extended no farther than was necessary for that purpose."
Id., p. 328.
In that view, the immunity cannot be said to extend
to a nondiscriminatory ad valorem tax upon the property
of the petitioner which is involved in the instant case.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BLAIR v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH

No. 247.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 5, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. A judgment of the Circuit Court of Appealg holding a beneficiary named in a trust taxable upon trust income notwithstanding assignments previously made by him, and basing this
conclusion upon the ground that, under the local law, the trust
was a spendthrift trust giving the beneficiary no power to
assign,-held inapplicable as res judicata in favor of the Government in proceedings to collect taxes from the same person,
for. subsequent years, the situation having been changed meanwhile by a decision of the state court construing the trust and
upholding the assignments. Tait v. Western Maryland Ry. Co.,
289 U. S. 620, distinguished. P. 8.
2. Whether a testamentary trust is a spendthrift trust barring the
voluntary alienation of his interest by the beneficiary depends

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

6

Counsel for Parties.

300 U.S.

upon the law of the State in which the donor resided and in
which the trust was created and the property situated. P. 9.
3. A decision by the intermediate appellate court of Illinois upholding the right of the life beneficiary of a trust to assign parts
of his interest, in a suit brought by the trustees for instructions and
impleading the beneficiary and his assignees,-held conclusive
of the validity of the assignments. P. 10.
4. In the general application of the Revenue Acts, income tax liability is attached to ownership. P. 11.
5. Provisions of the Revenue Acts (1921, § 219 (a) (d); 1924 and
1926, § 219 (a) (b); 1928, § 162 (a) (b)) imposing upon the
beneficiary of a trust liability for the tax upon the income "distributable" to him, refer to the owner of the beneficial interest,
whether he was such initially or becomes such by an assignment
valid under the local law governing the trust. P. 12.
6. Assignments of interests, of specified amounts each year thereafter, in the net incolhe which the assignor was then or might
thereafter be entitled to receive during his life under a trust,held assignments not merely of the right to receive income, but
of corresponding interests in the trust estate. P. 12.
7. A beneficiary entitled during life to the income of property held
in trust is the owner, not of a chose in action merely, but of an
equitable interest in the corpus of the property; and that interest, in the absence of a valid restraint upon alienation, he may
assign in part, or as a whole. P. 13.
83 F. (2d) 655, 662, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 527, to review a judgment which
reversed a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 31
B. T. A. 1192, overruling income tax assessments.

Messrs. J. F. Dammann and William B. McIlvaine for

petitioner.
Mr. David E. Hudson, with whom Solicitor General

Reed, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and John G. Remey were on the brief, for
respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs amici curiae were filed by
Mr. Edward N. Perkins and Mr. John E. Hughes.

BLAIR v. COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case presents the question of the liability of a
beneficiary of a testamentary trust for a tax upon the
income which he had assigned to his children prior to the
tax years and which the trustees had paid to them
accordingly.
The trust was created by the will of William Blair, a
resident of Illinois who died in 1899, and was of property
located in that State. One-half of the net income was
to be paid to the donor's widow during her life. His son,
the petitioner Edward Tyler Blair, was to receive the
other one-half and, after the death of the widow, the
whole of the net income during his life. In 1923, after
the widow's death, petitioner assigned to his daughter,
Lucy Blair Linn, an interest amounting to $6000 for the
remainder of that calendar year, and to $9000 in each
calendar year thereafter, in the net income which the
petitioner was then or might thereafter be entitled to
receive during his life. At about the same time, he
made like assignments of interests, amounting to $9000
in each calendar year, in the net income of the trust to
his daughter Edith Blair and to his son, Edward Seymour
Blair, respectively. In later years, by similar instruments, he assigndd to these children additional interests,
and to his son William McCormick Blair other specified
interests, in the net income. The trustees accepted the
assignments and distributed the income directly to the
assignees.
The question first arose with respect to the tax year
1923 and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled
that the income was taxable to the petitioner. The Board
of Tax Appeals held the contrary. 18 B. T. A. 69. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the Board, holding that
under the law of Illinois the trust was a spendthrift trust

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and the assignments were invalid. Commissionerv. Blair,
60 F. (2d) 340. We denied certiorari. 288 U. S. 602.
Thereupon the trustees brought suit in the Superior
Court of Cook County, Illinois, to obtain a construction
of the will with respect to the power of the beneficiary
of the trust to assign a part of his equitable interest and
to determine the validity of the assignments he had made.
The petitioner and the assignees were made defendants.
The Appellate Court of Illinois, First District, after a
review of the Illinois decisions, decided that the trust was
not a spendthrift trust and upheld the assignments.
Blair v. Linn, 274 Ill. App. 23. Under the mandate of
the appellate court, the Superior Court of Cook County
entered its decree which found the assignments to be "voluntary assignments of a part of the interest of said Edward Tyler Blair in said trust estate" and as such adjudged
them to be valid.
At that time there were pending before the Board of
Tax Appeals proceedings involving the income of the
trust for the years 1924, 1925, 1926 and 1929. The Board
received in evidence the record in the suit in the state
court and, applying the decision of that court, the Board
overruled the Commissioner's determination as to the
petitioner's liability. 31 B. T. A. 1192. The Circuit
Court of Appeals again reversed the Board. That court
recognized the binding effect of the decision of the state
court as to the validity of the assignments but decided
that the income was still taxable to the petitioner upon
the ground that his interest was not attached to the
corpus of the estate and that the income was not subject
to his disposition until he received it. Commissioner v.
Blair, 83 F. (2d) 655, 662.
Because of an asserted conflict with the decision of the
state court, and also with decisions of circuit courts of
appeals, we granted certiorari. October 12, 1936.
First. The Government contends that the judgment
relating to the income for 1923 is conclusive in this pro-

BLAIR v. COMMISSIONER.
5

Opinion of the Court.

ceeding as res judicata. Tait v. JVestern Maryland Ry.
Co., 289 IT. S. 620. Petitioner insists that this question
was not raised before the Board of Tax Appeals and
hence was not available before the Circuit Court of
Appeals. General Utilities Co. v. Helvering, 296 U. S.
200, 206; Helvering v. Salvage, 297 U. S. 106, 109. The
Government responds that the answers before the Board
of Tax Appeals in the instant case had been filed before
the first decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals was
entered, and that, while the case was heard before the
Board without amended pleadings, the whole matter was
actually before the Board and the question of res judicata was raised by an assignment of error on the petition
for review before the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is not necessary to review the respective contentions
upon this point, as we think that the ruling in the Tait
case is not applicable. That ruling and the reasoning
which underlies it apply where in the subsequent proceeding, although relating to a different tax year, the questions presented upon the facts and the law are essentially
the same. Tait v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., supro,
pp. 624, 626. Here, after the decision in the first proceeding, the opinion and decree of the state court created
a new situation. The determination of petitioner's liability for the year 1923 had been rested entirely upon the
local law. Commissioner v. Blair, 60 F. (2d) 340, 342,
344. The supervening decision of the state court interpreting that law in direct relation to this trust cannot
justly be ignored in the present proceeding so far as it is
found that the local law is determinative of any material
point in controversy. Compare Freulerv. Helvering, 291
U. S. 35; Hubbell v. Helvering, 70 F. (2d) 668.
Second. The question of the validity of the assignments is a question of local law. The donor was a resident of Illinois and his disposition of the property in that
State was subject to its law. By that law the character

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

of the trust, the nature and extent of the interest of the
beneficiary, and the power of the beneficiary to assign
that interest in whole or in part, are to be determined.
The decision of the state court upon these questions is
final. Spindle v. Shreve, 111 U. S. 542, 547, 548; Uterhart v. United States, 240 U. S. 598, 603; Poe v. Seaborn,
282 U. S. 101, 110; Freuler v. Helvering, supra, p. 45.
It matters not that the decision was by an intermediate
appellate court. Compare Graham v. White-Phillips
Co., 296 U. S. 27. In this instance, it is not necessary
to go beyond the obvious point that the decision was in
a suit between the trustees and the beneficiary and his
assignees, and the decree which was entered in pursuance
of the decision determined as between these parties the
validity of the particular assignments. Nor is there any
basis for a charge that the suit was collusive and the
decree inoperative. Freuler v. Helvering, supra. The
trustees were entitled to seek the instructions of the court
having supervision of the trust. That court entertained
the suit and the appellate court, with the first decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals before it, reviewed the
decisions of. the Supreme Court of the State and reached
a deliberate conclusion. To derogate from the authority
of that conclusion and of the decree it commanded, so
fa as the question is one of state law, would be wholly
unwarranted in the exercise of federal jurisdiction.
In the face of this ruling of the state court it is not
open to the Government to argue that the trust "was,
under the Illinois law, a spendthrift trust." The point
of the argument is that, the trust being of that character,
the state law barred the voluntary alienation by the beneficiary of his interest. The state court held precisely the
contrary. The ruling also determines the validity of the
assignment by the beneficiary of parts of his interest.
That question was necessarily presented and expressly
decided.

BLAIR v, COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.
Third. The question remains whether, treating the
assignments as valid, the assignor was still taxable upon
the income under the federal income tax act. That is
a federal question.
Our decisions. in Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111, and
Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U. S. 136, are cited. In the
Lucas case the question was whether an attorney was
taxable for the whole of his salary and fees earned by
him in the tax years or only upon one-half by reason
of an agreement with his wife by which his earnings
were to be received and owned by them jointly. We
were of the opinion that the case turned upon the construction of the taxing act. We said that "the statute
could tax salaries to those who earned them and providethat the tax could not be escaped by anticipatory arrangements and contracts however skilfully devised to prevent
the same when paid from vesting even for a second in
the man who earned it." That was deemed to be the
meaning of the statute as to compensation for personal
service, and the one who earned the income was held to
be subject to the tax. In Burnet v. Leininger, supra, a
husband, a member of a firm, assigned future partnership
income to his wife. We found that the revenue act dealt
explicitly with the liability of partners as such. The
wife did not become a member of the firm; the act specifically taxed the distributive share of each partner in
the net income of the firm; and the husband by the fair
import of the act remained taxable upon his distributive
share. These cases are not in point. The tax here is not
upon earnings which are taxed to the one who earns
them. Nor is it a case of income attributable to a taxpayer by reason of the application of the income to the
discharge of Wbis obligation. Old Colony Trust Co. v. Comrmissioner, 279 U. S. 716; Douglas v. Willcuts, 296 U. S.
1, 9; Helvering v. Stokes, 296 U. S. 551; Helvering v.
Schweitzer, 296 U. S. 551; Helvering v. Coxey, 297 U. S.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

694. See, also, Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 677. There
is here no question of evasion or of giving effect to statutory provisions designed to forestall evasion; or of the
taxpayer's retention of control. Corliss v. Bowers, 281
U. S. 376; Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280.
In the instant case, the tax is upon income as to which,
in the general application of the revenue acts, the tax
liability attaches to ownership. See Poe v. Seaborn,
supra; Hoeperv. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206.
The Government points to the provisions of the revenue acts imposing upon the beneficiary of a trust the
liability for the tax upon the income distributable to the
beneficiary.1 But the term is merely descriptive of the
one entitled to the beneficial interest. These provisions
cannot be taken to preclude valid assignments of the
beneficial interest, or to affect the duty of the trustee to
distribute income to the owner of the beneficial interest,
whether he was such initially or becomes such by valid
assignment. The one who is to receive the income as
the owner of the beneficial interest is to pay the tax. If
under the law governing the trust the beneficial interest is
assignable, and if it has been assigned without reservatioA, the assignee thus becomes the beneficiary and is
entitled to rights and remedies accordingly. We find
nothing in the revenue acts which denies him that status.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals turned
upon the effect to be ascribed to the assignments. The
court held that the petitioner had no interest in the corpus of the estate and could not dispose of the income
until he received it. Hence it was said that "the income
was his" and his assignment was merely a direction to
pay over to others what was due to himself. The question was considered to involve "the date when the income became transferable." 83 F. (2d), p. 662. The
'Revenue Acts of 1921, § 219 (a) (d); 1924 and 1926, § 219 (a)
(b); 1928, § 162 (a) (b).

BLAIR v. COMMISSIONER.
5

Opinion of the Court.

Government refers to the terms of the assignment,-that
it was of the interest in the income "which the said party
of the first part now is, or may hereafter be, entitled to
receive during his life from the trustees." From this it is
urged that the assignments "dealt only with a right to
receive the income" and that "no attempt was made to
assign any equitable right, title or interest in the trust
itself." This construction seems to us to be a strained
one. We think it apparent that the conveyancer was not
seeking to limit the assignment so as to make it anything
less than a complete transfer of the specified interest of
the petitioner as the life beneficiary of the trust, but that
with ample caution he was using words to effect such a
transfer. That the state court so construed the assignments appears from the final decree which described them
as voluntary assignments of interests of the petitioner
"in said trust estate," and it was in that aspect that petitioner's right to make the assignments.was sustained.
The will creating the trust entitled the petitioner during his life to the net income of the property held in
trust. He thus became the owner o an equitable interest in the corpus of the property. Brown v. Fletcher,
235 U. S. 589, 598, 599; Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161,
167, 168; Senior v. Braden, 295 U. S. 422, 432, 433;
Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v. Patterson, 308 Ill. 519,
530; 139 N. E. 912. By virtue of that interest he was
entitled to enforce the trust, to have a breach of trust
enjoined and to obtain redress in case of breach. The
interest was present property alienable like any other,
in the absence of a valid restraint upon alienation.
Commissioner v. Field, 42 F. (2d) 820, 822; Shanley v.
Bowers, 81 F. (2d) 13, 15. The beneficiary may thus
transfer a part of his interest as well as the whole. See
Restatement of the Law of Trusts, §§ 130, 132 et seq.
The assignment of the beneficial interest is not the assignment of a chose in action but of the "right, title and

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

estate in and to property." Brown v. Fletcher, supra;
Senior v. Braden, supra. See Bogert, "Trusts and
Trustees," vol. 1, § 183, pp. 516, 517; 17 Columbia Law
Review, 269, 273, 289, 290.
We conclude that the assignments were valid, that the
assignees thereby became the owners of.the specified
beneficial interests in the income, and that as to these
interests they and not the petitioner were taxable for
the tax years in question. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
with direction to affirm the decision of the Board of Tax
Appeals.
Reversed.
HONEYMAN v. HANAN, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 370. Argued January 14, 1937.--Decided February 1, 1937.
1. To constitute jurisdiction over an appeal from a state court, it
must appear, affirmatively from the record, not only that a federal
question was presented for decision to the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction, but that its decision of the federal question
was necessary to the determination of the cause. P. 18.
2. Whether these requirements have been met, is itself a federal
question.. Id.
3. In deciding whether it has jurisdiction, this Court must determine
whether a federal question was necessarily decided by the state
court; the determination must rest upon an examination of the
record; and while a certificate or statement by the state court
that a federal question has been presented to it and necessarily
passed upon may aid this Court in such examination of the record,
it cannot avail to foreclose the inquiry or to import a federal
question into the record. Id.
4. In. the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, this Court may make
s5'ch disposition of the case as justice shall require. A case may be
remanded to a state court to afford opportunity for an amendment
of the record appropriate to show definitely the precise nature
of the federal question, how it was raised, ahd the grounds of its

