MORLEY CO. v. MD. CASUALTY CO.
175

Syllabus.

any rate, there is nothing to the contrary in the pages
of this record. The fact is thus apparent that the contract rights of creditors are not involved at all. Whatever complaint is heard as to the substitution of a new
remedy in 1910 is not from creditors of that date, unable to collect their debts. The complaint comes to us
from stockholders, who took their stock with notice
that the remedies against them might be changed from
time to time.*
Second: The case of the Hagerstown Bank and Trust
Company.
As already pointed out, all the complaining stockholders in this company acquired their shares after the
adoption of the Act of 1910, with its new remedial devices. What has been said as to the stockholders in the
Peoples Banking Company of Smithsburg applies with
redoubled force to the stockholders in the trust company.
The decree in each case should be
Affirmed.

MORLEY CONSTRUCTION CO.

ET AL.

v. MARY-

LAND CASUALTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 325.

Argued January 8, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. A wrongful purpose is.
not an element of a cause of action for
exoneration. P. 189.
"The authority of a state under the so-called reserved power is
wide; but it is not unlimited. The corporate charter may be repealed or amended, and, within limits not now necessary to define,
the interrelations of state, corporation and stockholders may be
changed; but neither vested property rights nor the obligation of
contracts of third persons may be destroyed or impaired." Coombe..
v. Getz, supra, pp. 441, 442.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

2. The right of a surety to be exonerated from obligations of the
principal does not entitle the surety to custody or control of the
fund directed to be used for the purpose. P. 192.
3. In the absence of a cross-appeal, the appellee, to support 'the
decree, may urge argument contradictory of the reasoning of the
lower court, or may adduce matter in the record which the court
overlooked or ignored, but cannot attack the decree to enlarge his
own rights under it or to lessen his adversary's. P. 191.
4. The fact that findings, if against the weight of the evidence, may

be revised on appeal in equity at the instance of an appellant, does
not mean that they may be revised at the instance of an appellee,
at least where their revision would carry with it as an incident a
revision of the judgment. P. 191.
5. A surety on a bond to secure the performance of a public construction contract and payment of laborers and materialmen, made
a supplementary contract with the contractor to advance money
for use in carrying on the work, to be deposited in a special joint
account, under their joint control, in which also the contractor
was to deposit all payments received from the Government. The
contractor having failed to deposit its final payment from the
Government (the warrant for which was impounded) the District Court held that the surety, being itself partly in default,
could not have specific performance of the supplementary agreement but was entitled, apart from agreement, to be exonerated
from present liabilities, and it therefore decreed that the proceeds
of the warrant be placed in a bank to be chosen by the contractor,
as a special trust fund for the payment of bills for labor and material, no provision being made for any control in the surety.
Upon the contractor's appeal, the Court of Appeals made its own
finding that the surety's default was innocent and unsubstantial
and directed that a decree of specific performance be substituted
for the decree of exoneration. Held that the appellate court had
exceeded its power. P. 192.
84 F. (2d) 522, 526, reversed.

CERTioRARI, 299 U. S. 529, to review a decree directing
that a decree of the District Court for exoneration of a
surety be modified to a decree for specific performance
of a supplementary agreement between the surety and its
principal.

MORLEY CO. v. MD. CASUALTY "CO.
185

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. William
Buchholz was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Spencer F. Harris, with whom Messrs. John C.
Grover, Paul G. Koontz, George F. Cushwa, and Roger J.
Whiteford were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The power of an appellate court to modify a decree in
equity for the benefit of an appellee in the absence of a
cross-appeal is here to be admeasured.
Morley Construction Company, a petitioner in this
court, made a contract with the United States, acting
by the Veteran's Administration Department, for the
construction of a veterans' hospital at Batavia, New
York. In conformity with statute (40 U. S. C. § 270)
it gave a bond for the completion of the contract and
for the payment of all bills for material and labor, the
respondent Maryland Casualty Company signing the
bond as surety. During the progress of the work, the
contractor found itself in need of a loan of money to
enable it to go on. Accordingly a supplementary agreement was made between the contractor and the surety'to
relieve the situation. By that agreement, dated April
28, 1933, the contractor agreed to deposit in a designated
trust company in Buffalo $5,000 to be used in the performance of the work and to deposit in the same account
for the same purpose all moneys received from the United
States as payments upon the contract. The surety
agreed to deposit in the same account $5,000 as a loan
to be secured by the contractor's note, and additional
moneys sufficient to pay the present and future bills of
plasterers, amounting, as the evidence.shows, to $5,700.
The contractor and the surety were to have joint control

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

of the acaount, and no moneys were to be withdrawn
therefrom without the approval of the surety by designated representatives, the approval to be indicated upon
the check or draft in writing.
Following this supplementary agreement, the contractor went on with the work, and brought it to completion.
The surety made the first payment of $5,000 in accordance with its promise but refused to pay the $5,700
owing to the plasterers. In the meantime a series of
payments became owing from the Government ilpon
estimates of value in advance of completion and acceptance. Warrants for these payments were forwarded by
the Government to the trdst company in Buffalo to be
placed in the joint account, notice having been given by
the contractor to issue them accordingly. However, a
different course was followed when the final payment
became due. Apparently through inadvertence, the Government sent a warrant for that payment ($59,780.82) to
the contractor itself at its office in Kansas City, Missouri.
The contractor endorsed the warrant, delivered it to the
Merchants Bank of Kansas City, bne of the petitioners
in this court, and directed the bank to issue a cashier's
check for a like amount to the order of the contractor's
president. The bank made out the check, but held it to
await the payment of the warrant, which it deposited in
a Federal Reserve Bank to be forwarded, in the usual
course of collection, to the Treasury at Washington.
Neither check nor warrant has been paid as a consequence
of an injunction obtained by the respondent.
Upon learning from the Veterans' Administration Department of the transmission of the warrant, the surety
began two suits, one ii- the District of Columbia, where
the payment of the warrant was stayed by an injunction,
the other the suit at bar. It recounts in its complaiiit
the facts or most of them already stated in this opinion,

MORLEY CO. v. MD. CASUALTY CO.
185

Opinion of the Court.

adding thereto that outstanding bills for more than
$100,000 are covered by its bond. It says that it is entitled to the specific performance of the supplementary
agreement and to a decree depositing the warrant in the
trust company at Buffalo to be alplied upon the joint
account. It says also that by reason of the unpaid bills
of materialmen and laborers there is a duty on the part
of the contractor to exonerate the surety from loss or
liability and to apply the warrant to that purpose. Finally, it makes claim to a right of subrogation to the position of the contractor over against the Government, a
claim which apparently has been abandoned and will not
engage us further. The bill of complaint ends with a
prayer for relief appropriate to the several theories of
liability put forward by the pleader, the theory of specific performance, the theory of exoneration, and the
theory of subrogation. To render the relief effectual, the
bank in, Kansas City was joined as a defendant.
The District Judge held that the surety was not entitled to the specific performance of the agreement, having failed to pay the plasterers an'd being therefore in
default itself. He held, however, that apart from any
agreement the contractor was subject to a duty to exonerate the surety from present liabilities. True, there was
no purpose on the part of the contractor to divert the
proceeds .of the warrant from the uses of the contract.
As to this the finding is explicit. Even so, a cause of
action for exoneration does not include among its elements the presence of a wrongful purpose. Glades
County v. Detroit Fidelity Co., 57 F. (2d) 449; West
Huntsville Cotton Mills v. Alter, 164 Ala. 305; 51 So. 338;
Pavariniv. Title Guaranty & Surety Co., 36 App. D. C.
348; Hutchinson Grocer Co. v. Brand, 79 Kan. 340; 99
Pac. 592. The decree conforms to the findingsr in its
distribution of relief. It adjudges the complainant to be
entitled to exoneration but not to specific performance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U.S.

The proceeds of the warrant are to be placed in a bank
to be chosen by the contractor, the deposit to be "designated as a special trust fund for the payment of bills for
labor and material used on the United States Veterans
Hospital in Batavia, New York." No provision is made
that the surety, or indeed any one other than the contractor, shall have any control thereof.
From that decree the contractor appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the eighth circuit. There was no
cross-appeal by the surety. The Court of Appeals states
in its opinion, "We are in grave doubt whether exoneration can properly be granted." Preferring by reason of
that doubt to put its decision on some other ground, it
concludes that there should be specific performance of
the supplementary agreement. It concedes that thesurety is in default for failing to live up to the agreement
strictly, but it finds that the default was not unconscionable or fraudulent, and that a court of equity in its discretion may overlook an unsubstantial wrong._ Recognizing the necessity of modifying the decree if exoneration is
to be exchanged for specific performance, the opinion
states that "an injunction against using the moneys except as agreed upon, and an order to place said moneys
when received in the joint account and disburse the same
in payment of just claims for labor or materials, would
meet the requirements and rights of plaintiff and Would
not be impossible of performance" and that "a. decree
along suchlines should be granted by the trial court."
84 F. (2d) 522, 526. Accordingly, the mandate of the
appellate court provides'that the cause be remanded to
the District Court with directions to modify its decree
in accordance with the views expressed in the opinion.
We granted"certiorari to fix the measure of relief available
to a non-appealing suitor.
The sbstitution of specific performance for exoneration at the instance ,of the surety was not an affirmance

MORLEY CO. v. MD. CASUALTY CO.
185

Opinion of the Court.

of the decree below, as if the reasons only had been
changed with the decision standing firm. Alike in substance and in form there was a modification of the decree
itself, the facts being found anew and differently, the
law declared anew and differently, and the relief remodeled and adapted to the new..law and the new facts.
Without a cross-appeal, an appellee may "urge in support of a decree any matter appearing in the record although his argument may involve an attack upon the
reasoning of the lower court or an insistence upon matter
overlooked or ignored by it." United States v. American Railway Express Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435. What he
may not do in the abser.ce of a cross-appeal is to "attack
the decree with a view either to enlarging his own rights
thereunder or of lessening the rights of his adversary,
whether what he seeks is to correct an error or to supplement the decree with respect to a matter not dealt with
below." Ibid. The rule is inveterate and certain. Canter v. American Insurance Co., 3 Pet. 307, 318; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191, 196; The Maria Martin, 12
Wall. 31, 40, 41; Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S.
618, 621; Landram v. Jordan, 203 U. S. 56, 62; Union
Tool Co. v. Wilson, 259 U. S. 107, 111; Peoria & Pekin
Union Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 528, 536;
Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S.531, 538; Alexander v. Cosden Co., 290 U. S.484, 487. Findings may be revised at
the' instance of an appellant, if they are against the
weight of evidence, where the case is one in equity. This
does not mean that they are subject to like revision in
behalf of appellees, at all events in circumstances where
a revision of the findings carries with it as an incident
a revision of the judgment. There is no need at this
time to fix the limits of the rule more sharply. "Where
each party appeals each may assign error, but where
only one party appeals the other is bound by the decree
in the court below, and he cannot assign error in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

appellate court, nor can he be heard if the proceedings
in the appeal are correct, except in support of the decree from which the appeal of the other party is taken."
The Maria Martin, supra.*
The surety laid claim to relief upon the basis of a contract, and to other relief by force of an equitable doctrine
independent of contract. The decree of the District
Court rejected the first claim because the contract had
been broken, and accepted the second because the breach
was then irrelevant. The decree was responsive to the
claim that had been accepted, and not to any other. If
there was to be specific performance of the contract, the
surety, together with the contractor, wohld control the
distribution of the fund, for so the parties had agreed.
If there was to be exoneration and nothing more, the
contractor or perhaps the court would control the application and the surety would stand aside. Stulz-Sickles Co.
v. Fredburn Construction Corp., 114 N. J. Eq. 475, 478;
169 Atl. 27; cf. Glades County v. Detroit Fidelity Co.,
supra; Arant, Suretyship, pp. 318, 319 and cases cited.
Exoneration "does not entitle the surety to custody or
control of the fund." Stulz-Sickles Co. v. Fredburn Construction Corp., supra. The decision of the Court of
Appeals puts an end to this nice adjustment of the relief
to the law and of tle law to the facts as found. A decree
appropriate to exoneration is annulled, and one appropriate to specific performance is given in its place. This is
to find the facts anew and differently, for the trial judge
* State decisions on the question of the review of findings at the
instance of an appellee who has not taken a cross-appeal exhibit a
wide variance of procedure. For cases of the stricter type, see
Turner v. East Side Canal Co., 168 Cal. 103, 108; 142 Pac. 69;
Clark v. Corser, 154 Minn. 508; 191 N. W. 917; Cox v. Stokes, 156
N. Y. 491; 51 N. E. 316; Werdebach's Estate, 280 Pa. 26; 124 Atl.
268. With these contrast the following: Bullman v. Cooper, 362
Ill. 469; 200 N. E. 173; Wyatt v. Manning, 217 Iowa 929; 250 N. W.
141; Oppenheimher v. Bank, 97 Tenn. 19; 36 S.W. 705; Huntington v. Love, 56 Wash. 674; 106 Pac. 185.

MORLEY CO. v. MD. CASUALTY CO.
185

193

Opinion of the Court.

had held, at least by implication, that the breach by the
surety, viewed in the light of all the circumstances, was
something more than unsubstantial. It is to find the law
anew and differently, for the trial judge had held that a
surety chargeable with such a breach was not entitled
to a decree upon the footing of the contract. Even more
important, it is to give a new measure of relief, for the
trial judge had ruled that the fund was not to be held
upon the restrictions stated in the contract, but upon
different restrictions originating in the conscience of the
Chancellor. True, the relief proper to the theory accepted at the trial is almost as favorable from the viewpoint of the protection of the surety as the one adopted
on appeal, though distinctly less burdensome from the
view-point of the principal. Exoneration is not the same
as specific performance, but it is not very different, and
may be nearly, if not quite, as good. This is surely not a
reason why an appellate court should be at liberty to treat
the two as interchangeable. One might as well say that
at the instance of a non-appealing plaintiff a judgment
for specific performance could be made to take the place
of one for the recovery of damages.
The decree should be reversed and the cause remanded
to the Court of Appeals to pass upon the question, not yet
definitively answered, whether relief in the form of a
decree for exoneration is proper in the circumstances, and
for other proceedings in accord with this opinion.
Reversed.

130607°-37-13

