WAYNE GAS CO. v. OWENS CO.
124

Syllabus.

might perchance obtain something more, or might obtain
only that which was his due somewhat more expeditiously, than he could in chancery, it remains that the
procedure to foreclose in equity is, and has been, the
classical method of realization upon mortgage security
and has always been understood to be fair to both parties
to the contract and to afford an adequate remedy to the
mortgagee. If, therefore, the legislature of ,the State
had elected altogether to abolish the remedy by trustee's
sale we could not say that it had not left the mortgagee
an adequate remedy for the enforcement of his contract.
But the legislature hag by no means gone so far. The
law has merely restricted the exercise of the contractual
remedy to provide a procedure which, to some extent,
renders the remedy by a trustee's sale consistent with
that in equity. This does not impair the obligation of
the contract.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
WAYNE UNITED GAS CO. v. OWENS-ILLINOIS
GLASS CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 305.

Argued January 7, 8, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. A corporation involved in foreclosure and liquidation proceedings in a state court, in which a sale of all its property had been
ordered,. applied to the federal court before the sale was consummated for a reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy
Act. Creditors who had participated in the state case secured
an order of the federal court dismissing the petition for reorganization, and while the reviewability of the order was before this
Court by petition for. certiorari, they .went forward with the
proceedings in the state court and obtained a confirmed sale and

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

conveyance of the assets to their nominee. Held that they had
not thereby acquired t status precluding further examination o'
the petition for reorganization in the federal court, and that a
motion to dismisns the petition for certiorari as moot must be
overruled. P. 134.
2. A court of bankruptcy has no terms, but sits continuously. P. 135.
3. The rule denying power to a court of equity to vacate a decree
after expiration of the term in which it was entered, is, therefore,
inapplicable to a court of bankruptcy. Id.
4. A court of bankruptcy, in a proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, has power, in the exercise of sound discretion, to
reopen an order dismissing the petition for reorganization, notwithstanding that the time allowed for appeal from the order has
expired. P. 136.
5. The bankruptcy court, in the exercise of a sound discretion, if
no intervening rights will be prejudiced by its action, may grant
a rehearing upon application diligently made, and rehear the
case upon the merits; and even though it reaffirm its former
action and refuse to enter a decree different from the original
one, the order entered upon rehearing is appealable, and the
time for appeal runs from its entry. P. 137.
84 F. (2d) 965, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 528, to review the dismissal of

an appeal from a decree of the district court entered on
rehearing and dismissing, for the second time, a petition
for reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act.
Mr. Robert S. Spilvian, with whom Mr. Fred 0. Blue
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. H. D. Rummel, with whom Messrs. D. 0. Blagg
and A. G. Stone were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has
trict Court is without power to set
missing a petition for reorganization
Bankruptcy Act and to rehear the

decided that a Disaside its order disunder § 77B of the
cause after the ex-

WAYNE GAS CO. v. OWENS CO.
131

Opinion of the Court.

piration of the period allowed by the Act for appeal
from the order.'

To resolve a conflict of decisions2 we

granted certiorari.
November 25, 1935, the petitioner filed in the District
Court for Southern West Virginia a petition and, on
December 10th, an amended and supplemental petition
for corporate reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act as amended.' February 7, 1936, the respondents filed objections and motions to dismiss. March 2nd
the petitions were dismissed. March 20th the petitioner
presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals a petition for
appeal, pursuant to § 24 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act.'
April 15th the court denied the appeal,' holding that
the petitioner should have proceeded under § 25 (a).'
April 17th petitioner notified respondents that on April
24th it would present a petition to the District Court
praying vacation of the order of Mfarch 2nd and a rehearing and review of all matters arising in the proceedings
because of errors committed by the court in dismissing
its petitions, and th at, upon rehearing, the court would
be asked to enter an order approving the original and
amended petitions. After presentation of the petition
for rehearing and argument thereon the court directed
'84 F. (2d) 965.
2 See West v. McLaughlin's Trustee, 162 Fed. 124; Cameron v.
National Surety Co., 272 Fed. 874. This court has adverted to the
question without deciding it. Conboy v. First National Batk, 203
U. S. 141, 146.
3Act of June 7, 1934, 48 Stat. 911; Act of August 20, 1935, c. 577,
49 Stat. 664; Act of August 29, 1935, c. 809, 49 Stat. 965; 11 U. S. C.
§ 207.
4
Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, § 24 (b), 30 Stat. 553; 11 U. S. C.
§ 47.
'Wayne United Gas Co. v. Owens-Illinois Glass Co., 83 F. (2d) 98.
See O'Connor v. Mills, decided this day, ante, p. 26.
6Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, § 25 (a), 30 Stat. 553, 11 U. S. C.
§ 48 (a).

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

that it be filed, took the matter under advisement, and,
on May 12th, set aside the order of March 2nd, granted a
rehearing and review and fixed May 22nd for a hearing on
all questions arising on the record. The court found that
good cause existed justifying vacation of its previous
order and reconsideration of the cause. It further found
that the application had been seasonably presented and
no rights had vested under the order of March 2nd which
would be disturbed by setting the order aside. By leave
of court the petitioner, on May 22nd, presented a second
amended and supplemental petition, which incorporated
the earlier petitions for reorganization, and asked the
court to find that the original and supplemental petitions
were filed in good faith and complied with § 77B. The
respondents objected. May 28th the court, after a hearing, sustained the respondents' objections and dismissed
the petitions for reasons set forth in findings of fact and
conclusions of law. June 11th petitioner's application to
the judge of the District Court, under § 25 (a) of the
Act, for an appeal, with supersedeas, was granted. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, on respondents' motion, dismissed the appeal.
1. The respondents have moved to dismiss the writ
of certiorari on the ground that the controversy has become moot. In support of the motion they show that
for some time prior to the institution of the 77B proceedings the debtor's property had been in possession of a
receiver appointed by a state court; that the trustee of a
first mortgage had intervened in the receivership proceeding and sought foreclosure; that the state court had
ordered a sale of all the debtor's property and the decree
of sale had become final before the presentation of the
petition for reorganization. They show that subsequently
to the order of March 2nd dismissing the petition for
reorganization further action by the state court resulted
in the confirmation of a commissioner's sale, payment of

WAYNE GAS CO. v. OWENS CO.
131

Opinion of the Court.

the purchase price partly in cash and partly in first
mortgage bonds of the debtor and execution and delivery of a deed to the purchaser, a nominee of respondents. It appears not only that the respondents were
parties to the 77B proceeding but that, prior to the consummation of the sale, the state court was fully advised
of the steps taken in the federal courts and of the pendency of the petition for certiorari in this court to review
the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing the
appeal.
The respondents went forward with the proceedings in
the state court, looking to a sale of the debtor's property,
with f6ll khowledge that a rehearing might be granted
and that .the order entered thereon might be appealed.
They are not entitled, therefore, to rely on any status acquired in the state court suit as precluding further consideration of the petition for reorganization. The motion
mhst accordingly be overruled'.
2. The petitioner. assert that the grant or refusal of
a rehearing rested in the sound discretion of the District
Court, and since in the proper exercise of that discretion
the court entertained the application and reheard the
case upon the merits, its action again dismissing the petition for reorganization was a final order and the appeal
therefrom was timely. The respondents contend that
the first order of dismissal having terminated the cause,
and the thirty days allowed by the bankruptcy act for
appeal from the order having expired, the District Court
was without power to entertain a petition for rehearing
and its second order of dismissal was a nullity. Wherefore, they say, the appeal taken more than thirty days
from the date of the original order of March 2, 1936, if
considered as challenging that order, was out of time, and
the motion to dismiss was properly granted by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. We hold the petitioner's position is
sound and the appeal should have been entertained.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Though a court of bankruptcy sits continuously and
has no terms,- respondents urge that; as courts of bankruptcy are courts of equity, the rules applicable to the
i'ehearing of a suit in equity should be applied in bankruptcy cases, and as it appears the term of the District
Court expired April 20, 1936, the court had lost its power
to disturb the order of March 2nd. A court of equity
may grant a rehearing, and vacate, alter, or amend its
decree, after an appeal has been perfected and after the
time for appeal has expired, but not after expiration of
the term at which the decree was entered. ' It is true
the bankruptcy court applies the doctrines of equity, but
the fact that such a court has no terms, and sits continuously, renders inapplicable the rules with respect to
the want of power in a court of equity to vacate a decree
after the term at which it was entered has ended.
In the alternative the respondents argue that where,
as here, an adjudication is refused, and the case is retired from the docket, the requirement that an appeal
shall be perfected within thirty days from the order of
dismissal deprives the court of power to reinstate and
rehear the cause after the expiration of the time limited
for appeal. They insist that the act contemplates the
speedy disposition of causes in bankruptcy and therefore
fixes a brief period for appealing from orders therein. To
permit the court to rehear a cause after the time for appeal has expired, and to enter a fresh order which is
appealable, would, they urge, tend unduly to extend the
proceedings, create uncertainty as to the rights of the
debtor and creditors, and ignore the intent of Congress.
Sandusky v. National Bank, 23 Wall. 289, 293; In re Lemmon &
Gale Co., 112 Fed. 296, 300; Freed v. Central Trust Co., 215 Fed.
873, 876; In re Rochester Sanitarium& Baths Co., 222 Fed. 22, 26.
'Equity Rule 69; Aspen Mining Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, 36;
Voorhees v. Noye Mfg. Co., 151 U. S. 135; Zimmern v. United States,
298 U. S. 167.

WAYNE GAS CO. v. OWENS CO.
131

Opinion of the Court.

But we think the court has the power, for good reason,
to revise its judgments upon seasonable application and
before rights have vested on the faith of its action.
Courts of law and equity have such power, limited by
the expiration of the term at which the judgment or decree was entered and not by the period allowed for appeal or by the fact that an appeal has been perfected.'
There is no controlling reason for denying a similar power
to a court of bankruptcy or for limiting its exercise to
the period allowed for appeal. The granting of a rehearing is within the court's sound discretion, and a
refusal to entertain a motion therefor, or the refusal of
the motion, if entertained, is not the subject of appeal.1"
A defeated party who applies for a rehearing and does not
appeal from the judgment or decree within the time limited for so doing, takes the risk that he may lose his right
of appeal, as the application for rehearing, if the c6 urt
refuse to entertain it, does not extend the time for appeal. 1 Where it appears that a rehearing has been
granted only for that purpose the appeal must be dismissed.1 - The court below evidently thought the case
fell within this class. On the contrary, the rule which
governs the case is that the bankruptcy court, in the
exercise of a sound discretion, if no intervening rights will
b6 prejudiced by its action, may grant a rehearing upon
application diligently made and rehear the case upon the
merits; and even though it reaffirm its former action and
9 United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55; United States v. Benz, 282
U. S. 304; and cases cited in Note 8.
°Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 238; Steines v. Franklin County,
14 Wall. 15; Hardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756; Boesch v. Grdiff, 133
U. S. 697; San Pedro Co. v. United States, 146 U. S. 120.
- Roemer v. Bernheim, 132 U. S. 103, 106; Morse v. United States,
270 U. S. 151, 154; Clarke v. Hot Springs Elec. L. & P. Co., 76 F.
(2d) 918, 921.
12 In re Stearns & White Co., 295 Fed. 833; Bonner v. Potterf, 47
F. (2d) 852, 855; United States v. East, 80 F. (2d) 134, 135.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

refuse to enter a decree different fr.om the original one,
the order entered upon rehearing is appealable and the
time for appeal runs from its entry."3 The District
Court's action conformed to these conditions. Two days
after the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the petition
for allowance of appeal from the original order of March
2, 1936, petitioner notified respondents of its intention to
apply for rehearing. Prompt application was made and
the cause was promptly heard. A supplemental petition
was presented and entered upon the files by leave of
court. The original, the amended, and the supplemental
petitions were considered upon the merits, and the court
made findings and announced conclusions of law with
respect thereto. There is no indication that the petition
for rehearing was not made in good faith or that the court
received it for. the purpose of extending petitioner's time
for appeal. The court found that no rights had interv.ened which would render it inequitable to reconsider the
merits. There was no abuse of sound discretion in granting the motion and reconsidering the cause.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings
in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
13 Compare Aspen Mining Co. v. Billings, supra, p. 37; Voorhees
v..Noye Mfg. Co., supra, p. 137; Citizens Bank v. Opperman, 249
U.'S. 448, 450; Morse v. United States, supra, p. 154.

