82

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

ICKES, SECRETARY OF THE'INTERIOR, v. FOX
ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 266.

Argued January 6, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. Suits to which the United States is an indispensable party defendant may be maintained only when the Congress has so provided. P. 96.
2. Upon the facts alleged in the bills, held that, under the Reclamation Act, the laws of Washington, and contracts between the
Government and owners of land in an irrigation project, the
rights of landowners to use the water in the quantity per acre
required for irrigating their respective lands were not mere rights
of contract with the Government, but were vested property
rights, appurtenant to their lands and wholly distinct from the
interest of the Government in the irrigation works. P. 96.
3. The Federal Government, as owner, had the power to dispose
of the land and water of the public domain together or separately;
and by the Desert Land Act, if not before, Congress established
the rule that for the future the lands should be patented separately. P. 95.
4. By the Desert Land Act, acquisition of the government title to a
parcel of land did not carry with it a water right; but all nonnavigable waters were reserved for the use of the public under
the laws of the various arid-land States. P. 95.
5. By the laws of the arid-land States generally, and of the State of
Washington in particular, and by express provision of the Reclamation Act with respect to lands in federal irrigation projects, the
right to use water for irrigation, which can only be acquired by
prior appropriation and application to that beneficial use, is a
property right and part and parcel of the land upon which it is
applied. P. 95.
6. In a suit against a government officer to enjoin the enforcement
of an order which would unlawfully deprive the plaintiff of vested
*Together with No. 267, Ickes, Secretary of the Interior, v.
'Parks et al.; and No. 268, Ickes, Secretary of the Interior, v. Ottmuller. On writs of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District -of Columbia.

ICKES v. FOX
82

ET AL.

Argument for Petitioner.

property rights, the truth of allegations as to the ownership of
the rights is conceded by a motion to dismiss; but even if the
allegations were denied, a presumption that the plaintiff might
be able to prove them will be indulged in favor of the jurisdiction
of the trial court. P. 96.
7. The United States is not an indispensable party to suits brought
to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior from enforcing an order
which would wrongfully deprive the plaintiffs of vested property
rights that were not only acquired under Acts of Congress, state
laws and government contracts but settled and determined by his
predecessors in office. Pp. 96-97.
66 App. D. C. 128; 85 F. (2d) 294, affirmed.

Writs of certiorari, 299 U. S. 528, to review judgments
affirming, upon special appeals, orders of the trial court
denying motions to dismiss amended bills in three suits
against the Secretary of the Interior.
Assistant Attorney General Blair, with whom Solicitor
General Reed and Messrs. D. B. Hempstead and Frederick Bernays Wiener were on the brief, for petitioner.
The United States is an indispensable party.
If the United States was the appropriator and is the
owner of the water rights in question, the respondents
can have no claim apart from their contracts with the
United States. The suits on such contracts were therefQre rightly dismissed. Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335;
Transcontinental& Western Air v. Farley, 71 F. (2d) 288,
cert. den., 293 U. S.603. The relief sought would be the
equivalent of specific performance of a contract with the
United States, which no court has jurisdiction to award.
Goltra v.Weeks, 271 U. S.536, 546; United States ex rel.
Shoshone IrrigationDistrict v. Ickes, 70 F. (2d) 770, 773,
cert. den., 293 U. S.571; Boeing Air Transport v. Farley,
75 F. (2d) 765, cert. den., 294 U. S. 728.
Whether the circumstances give the respondents any
sort of a property right in the water must be determined
in the light of state law, to which the recla'mation ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

tivities of the Federal Government are expressly made
subject. Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, § 8, 32 Stat. 390.
Does the mere use of water supplied under contract with
the operator of a storage and irrigation system give title
to the water independently of the contract?
Some of the arid States, by statute or by decision, have
modified the doctrine of first appropriation to require
that there be actual beneficial use by the appropriator.
See Wiel, Water Rights in the Western States, II, c. 57,
pp. 1235-1248 (3d ed.). Colorado seems to have gone
farther in this direction than has any other State. Under
the law of that State, the fact of storage and distribution
does not constitute appropriation, but merely makes the
carrier of the water a trustee for the consumer, in whom
the property right rests. Highland Ditch Co. v. Union
Reservoir Co., 53 Colo. 483; Pioneer Irrigation Co. v.
Union Reservoir Co., 53 Colo. 483; Pioneer IrrigationCo.
v. Board of Commissioners, 236 Fed. 790, 792.
Under the applicable Washington law, the one who
diverts water for sale or distribution to others has made a
full appropriation and has full title to the water.
Prior to 1917, the appropriation of water was governed
by the Act of 1891 (Laws of Wash., 1891, p. 327, § 1;
2 Remington's Code, 1915, § 6316). Under this Act one
who impounds water and distributes it under contract
with agricultural users is the appropriator, and those who
contract with him have no property rights in the water
from its use, but merely their contract rights against the
distributor. Lanham v. Wenatchee Canal Co., 48 Wash.
337; Shafford v. White Bluffs Co., 63 Wash. 10; Black v.
Baker, 126 Wash. 604. Other Washington cases have
assumed as a matter of course that the remedy for failure
to supply the agreed water is one for breach of contract, or
for its specific performance. [Citing many Washington
cases.]

ICKES v. FOX
82

ET AL.

Argument for Petitioner.

Ergo the United States is the appropriator and respondents have merely contract rights against the-United
States. United States v. Union Gap Irrigation Co., 209
Fed. 274, 276; West Side IrrigationCo. v. United States,
246 Fed. 212, 217. Any doubts as to this are set at rest
by the Washington statute authorizing appropriations of
water for federal reclamation projects. Laws of 1905,
c. 88, p. 180. Under the Reclamation Act the United
States is the appropriator of water. Ide v. United States,
263 U. S. 497.
Section 8 of the Reclamation Act, declaring that the
right to the use of the water acquired under its provisions
shall be appurtenant to the land irrigated, and beneficial
use shall be the basis, the measure, and the limit of the
right, was designed only to prevent speculative profits,
by forbidding alienation of the water right for use on
other lands or for other purposes. H. Rep. No. 1468, 57th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 7; 35th Cong. Rec. 1385, 6679.
The foundation of the bills is the allegation that the
Secretary of the Interior threatens to interfere with the
respondents' water rights which are owned independently
of the contracts by which the United States agrees to
furnish the water. The very claim that the United States
is not a necessary party rests upon a request that the
court adjudicate that the claim of the United States to
ownership of the water must fall before the claims of the
respondents. The United States is therefore an indispensable party. American Falls Reservoir District v.
Crandall,82 F. (2d) 973;Arizona v. California,298 U. S.
558; Goldberg v. Daniels, 231 U. S. 218, 221-222.
These suits seek also to interfere with the operation
and management of the reservoirs and distribution system of the United States. In effect, the relief sought
is that respondents be restored to their former "rights
and privileges" to receive the additional amounts of

OCTOBER TERM. 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

water. This would require that water be stored in the
reservoirs, that the headgates be adjusted, and that
water be delivered to the respondents in the amounts to
be fixed by the decree. These bills contemplate a direct
interference with the rights of property and management
which are guaranteed by § 6 of the Reclamation Act
(43 U. S. C. 498).
This conclusion is reinforced, when the interest of the
United States is viewed not only as one relating to its
ownership of property but as one affecting a basic element of its reclamation policy. The orders attacked by
the respondents recite that the water furnished them
must be limited to the amount specified in their contracts, in order to supply water to the Kittitas division.
The situation thus appears to be one in which respondents seek to have enforced a right in opposition to the
interest of the United States in (1) making an equitable
distribution of a limited supply of water, and (2) in
fulfilling the terms of its contracts with other landowners.
Mr. Stephen E. Chaffee for respondents.
The effect of the public notices and orders sought to
be annulled is arbitrarily to reduce the measure of respondents' right to much less than the measure of "benefiial use," as fixed by the Reclamation Law, by the contracts, by the legislation and judicial decisions of Washington, by practice on all federal reclamation projects
and by the determination of a former Secretary of Interior. In re Waters of Crab Creek, 134 Wash. 7, 14,
15; Longmire v. Smith, 26 Wash. 439; California Oregon
Power Co. v. Beaver Portland Cement Co., 295 U. S.
142; Ament v. Bickford, 139 Wash. 494, 495; Madison v.
McNeal, 171 Wash. 675; Geddis v. Parish, 1 Wash. 587,
591.
Determination by the Secretary prior to August 13,
1914, of respondents' fight to the use of water acquired
pursuant to contract, fixed the right and cannot be an-

ICKES v. FOX
82

ET AL.

Opinion of the Court.

nulled by a successor. Wilbur v. Burley IrrigationDistrict, 58 F. (2d) 871; Noble v. Union River Logging Co.,
147 U. S. 164, 176.
The public notices sought to be vacated increase the
construction charges after they were fixed by public
notice; strike down and destroy water rights which are
appurtenant to respondents' lands; and violate the fundamental doctrine "first in time, first in right," which the
Secretary of the Interior is required to observe in carrying out the provisions of the Reclamation law.
The cases of Wells v. Roper; Transcontinental& Western Air v. Farley; Boeing Air Transport v. Farley; and
United States ex rel. Shoshone IrrigationDistrict v. Ickes,
are clearly distinguishable. In those suits the plaintiffs
sought to control the discretion a nd judgment of executive officers on matters entrusted them by Congress.
Furthermore, those cases involved breach of a contract
by the United States. Congress had entrusted the matters involved to the discretion of the Postmaster General
in the first three cases and to the Secretary of the Interior
in the last case; and the executive official was acting
within the statutory authority and jurisdiction so entrusted to him in discretionary matters. None of these
elements exist in the suits at bar. The difference between
the illegal seizure of the property and cancellation of a
contract is clearly pointed out in Goltra v. Weeks, 271
U. S. 536. See Ballinger v. United States, 216 U. S. 240;
Miguel v. McCarl, 261 U. S. 442; American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; Payne v. Cen-,
tral Pacific Ry. Co., 255 U. S. 228; Ickes v. Virginia-Colorado Development Co., 295 U. S. 639; United States-v.
Lee, 106 U. S. 197; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S. 378.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The sole question in each of these three cases is
whether the United States is an indispensable party de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

fendant. The suits were brought in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia. That court, on motion of
petitioner, deeming the presence of the United States
to be indispensable, dismissed the bills as amended.
Thereupon, by permission of the court, second-amended
bills were filed. Petitioner renewed his motions to dismiss, which the court then denied. A special appeal was
allowed by the court below, and resulted in an affirmance
of the decree of the trial court. 66 App. D. C. 128; 85
F. (2d) 294. The allegations of the three secondamended bills of complaint differ in some particulars;
but whether these differences will affect the extent or
measure of the rights of the respective respondents or
the final disposition of the suits so as to require unlike
decrees, we do not determine. They are not such as to
necessitate diverse rulings in respect of the question
which now is presented for decision. In this view, we
confine our statement, except as otherwise noted, to the
allegations of' the bill of complaint in the Fox case,
No. 266.
Petitioner, as Secretary of the Interior, has charge of
the administration of the Reclamation Act of June 17,
1902 (32 Stat. 388), as amended. In 1906, the then
Secretary of the Interior approved a reclamation project
known as the "Sunnyside Unit of the Yakima Project";
and purchased from the Washington Irrigation Company
the Sunnyside Canal, together with the water appropriations and irrigation system connected therewith. At the
time of the purchase, certain arid and unirrigated lands,
described in the bill, thereafter and now owned by respondents, were within the unit embraced by the project.
The then owners of the lands, predecessors of respondents in title, and other owners of similar lands, incorporated the Sunnyside Water Users Association under the
laws of the State of Washington, put their lands within

ICKES v. FOX ET
82

AL.

Opinion of. the Court.

the reclamation project, and agreed to take water from
the project to irrigate such lands.
The association, on May 7, 1906, entered into a contract with the United States, the recitals of which in
substance, so far as pertinent, are that these lands are
desert and arid in character and will remain so unless
the waters of the Yakima River and its tributaries be
impounded and the flow regulated and controlled; that
the Secretary contemplates the construction of irrigation
works under the Reclamation Act for the irrigation and
reclamation of these lands; that the incorporators and
shareholders of the association are required to be owners
and occupants of lands within the area to be irrigated,
and already are in some cases appropriators of water for
the irrigation thereof; that they are required to initiate
rights.to the use of water from the proposed irrigation
works as soon as may be, and complete the acquisition
thereof as prescribed by the Secretary, "which rights
shall be, and thereafter continue to be, forever appurtenant to designated lands owned by such shareholders."
Following these recitals, it was agreed that only those
who became members of the association should be accepted as applicants for rights to the use of water; that
the aggregate amount of such rights should not exceed
the number of acres of land capable of irrigation by the
total quantity of water available-namely, the quantity
now appropriated by shareholders of the association and
the quantity to be delivered from all sources in excess
of the water now appropriated; that the Secretary should
determine the number of acres capable of such irrigation, "to be based upon and measured and limited by the
beneficial use of water"; that water rights should be
paid for in ten annual installments; that the association
guarantees payment for that part of the cost bf the irrigation works apportioned to its shareholders-times

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and methods of payment being stipulated in detail; that
rights to water where the same have vested were to be
defined, determined, and enjoyed in accordance with the
Reclamation Act and other acts of Congress on the subject of the acquisition and enjoyment of such rights, and
by the laws of the State of Washington.
Some time after the execution of the foregoing contract, the predecessors in title of respondents, upon officially-approved forms, made applications for waterrights for the irrigation of the lands here involved. By
the terms of the applications, the measure of the waterright for the land was stated to be that quantity which
shall be beneficially used for the irrigation thereof, not
exceeding the share proportionate to irrigable acreage of
the water supply actually available, to be paid for [in
ten annual instalments] in an amount which was fixed
in each application.1 The applicants agreed that the
construction charge and the annual charges for operation
and maintenance should be and were made a lien upon
the lands and all water-rights then or thereafter appurtenant or belonging thereto, together with all
improvements thereon.
It further is alleged that a former Secretary of the
Interior determined that the total cost of the water
rights for all the lands in the unit would be $52 per acre,
and that such sum would be sufficient to return to the
reclamation fund the total cost of the project; that, pursuant to the terms of the Reclamation Act, he fixed the
in the Parks case the quantity of water applied for was stated
to be three acre-feet of water per annum per acre, or as much more
as will be required to successfully irrigate the land. In the Ottmuller
case the quantity was stated to be three acre-feet of water per
annum per acre, or so much thereof as shall constitute the proportionate share per acre from the water supply actually available for the
lands under the project.

ICKES -v.
FOX
82

ET AL.

Opinion of the Court.

construction charge for the land here involved at that
amount per acre, and issued public notice and order accordingly; that thereafter the successive Secretaries of
the Interior uniformly construed the Reclamation Act
and the contractual obligations, to the effect that the
owners of the lands had purchased a sufficient quantity
of water to beneficially and successfully irrigate their
lands, to be determined by representatives of the Secretary having physical charge of the water distribution,
from a factual investigation and personal examination
of the lands and the crops growing thereon and the
water requirements thereof.
Pursuant thereto, it was determined by representatives of the successive Secretaries that 4.84 acre-feet of
water per annum per acre was necessary to beneficially
and successfully irrigate respondents' lands; that, thereupon, the Secretaries of the Interior, through their representatives, have, for a period of more than twenty
years, delivered to such lands the necessary quantity of
water; that after the construction of the irrigation system and reservoirs of sufficient capacity to beneficially
and successfully irrigate all lands within the unit, an
act of Congress was passed providing that no increase
of construction charges could be made after they had
been fixed by public notice and order, except by agreement between the secretary and a majority of the waterright applicants. On September 24th, 1914, the then
Secretary of the Interior issued a public notice and order,
declaring that there would be no increase in the construction charges against the lands.
Respondents and their predecessors, it is alleged, have
fully complied with the terms of the Reclamation Act
and all obligations in connection with their water-rights,
and have paid to the government all sums due on account of construction charges, and all operation and
maintenance charges, and have acquired vested water-

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

rights sufficient to beneficially and successfully irrigate
their lands-namely, 4.84 acre-feet of water per acre per
annum; and that such water-rights are appurtenant to
their lands.
The bill further alleges that in 1930 the Commissioner
of Reclamation desired to construct the Cle Elum Reservoir to store water for the irrigation of lands in the Kittitas Reclamation District and other lands, the canal
and distributing system in that district being then in
process of construction. But finding that the cost of the
reservoir would exceed, by $1,000,000, the amount which
would be returned to the reclamation fund, and without consulting respondents or other water users in the
Sunnyside Unit of the Yakima Project, the commissioner charged the sum of $1,000,000 to that unit and
district, and informed the secretary to that effect.
Neither respondent nor any other water users in that
unit or district ever agreed to this arrangement; but the
then-secretary certified to the President that provision
had been made for the repayment to the reclamation
fund of the total cost of the reservoir, and that $1,000,000 thereof was to be obtained by rentals from the
Sunnyside Division of the Yakima Project.
The bill further alleges that the secretary and other
officials agreed with designated persons to attempt to
force and coerce respondents, and other water users in
the district, to induce the district to agree to pay the
additional sum; otherwise, to force and coerce them to
sign water-rental applications or be deprived of a portion of the water owned by them. In pursuance thereof,
public notice was given and an order issued limiting
their rights to three acre-feet per acre, and exacting a
specified rental charge for additional water. Respondents and the other water users were notified that they
would be deprived of all water in excess of the three
acre-feet per acre unless they made application for ad-

ICKES v. FOX
82

ET AL.

Opinion of the Court.

ditional water in a form and manner prescribed. Respondents and the other water-right users, however,
refused to make such applications.
It is further alleged that three acre-feet of water per
acre is not, never has been, and will not in the future be
sufficient to beneficially irrigate respondents' lands; but
would leave a large part thereof barren and nonproductive, thereby forcing about half of their lands to bear construction and maintenance charges, taxes and assessments
upon the whole thereof. The bill shows that irreparable
loss and damage will result if the order of the secretary
is enforced; and that respondents have no adequate or
complete remedy at law, but that effective relief can be
administered only by a court of equity. The prayer is
for a decree requiring the secretary to vacate, set aside
and hold for naught the notices and orders set forth in
and attached to the bill, and that respondents be restored
to their former rights and privileges.
The bill goes into greater detail in respect of the facts;
but the foregoing general statement of the allegations is
enough for present purposes. Succinctly stated, the case
comes to this: The United States, under the Reclamation
Act, constructed an irrigation system for the purpose of
storing and distributing water for irrigation of arid lands.
Respondents own water-rights under the system for lands
of that kind; and these lands require artificial irrigation
to render them productive. So far as these respondents
are concerned, the government did not become the owner
of the water-rights, becapse those rights by act of Congress were made "appurtenant to the land irrigated"; 2
and by a Washington statute, in force at least since 1917,
2"The
right to the use of water acquired under the provisions of
the reclamation law shall be appurtenant to the land irrigated, and
beneficial use shall be the basis, the measure, and the limit of the
right." Act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, § 8, 32 Stat. 388, 390; Title
43 U. S. C. § 372.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

were "to be and remain appurtenant to the land." .
Moreover, by the contract with the government, it was
the land owners who were "to initiate rights to the use
of water," which rights were to be and "continue to be
forever appurtenant to designated lands owned by such
shareholders."
Respondents had made all stipulated payments and
complied with all obligations by which they were bound
to the government, and, long prior to the issue of the
notices and orders here assailed, had acquired a vested
right to the perpetual use of the waters as appurtenant
to their lands. Under the Reclamation Act, supra, as
well as under the law of Washington, "beneficial use" was
"the basis, the measure and the limit of the right." And
by the express terms of the contract made between the
government and the Water Users Association in behalf
of respondents and other shareholders, the determination
of the secretary as to the -number of acres capable of
irrigation was "to be based upon and measured and
limited by the beneficial use of water." Predecessors of
petitioner, accordingly, had decided that 4.84 acre-feet of
water per annum per acre was necessary to the beneficial
and successful irrigation of respondents' lands; and upon
that decision, for a period of more than twenty years
prior to the wrongs complained of, there was delivered
to and used upon the lands that quantity of water.'
Although the government diverted, stored and distributed the water, the contention of petitioner that thereby
ownership of the water or water-rights became vested in
'"The right to the use of water which has been applied to a
beneficial use in the state shall be and remain appurtenant to the
land or place upon which the same is used: . . ." Laws of Wash.,
1917, c. 117, § 39, p. 465; Laws of Wash., 1929, c. 122, § 6, p. 274,;
Rem. Rev. Stat. § 7391, vcl. 8, p. 425.
"In the Parks case and in the Ottmuller case, the quantity of
water thus determined and delivered and used was 6 acre-feet and 5.56
acre-feet of water per acre per annum, respectively.

ICKES v. FOX
82

ET AL.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States is not well founded. Appropriation
was made not for the use of the government, but, under
the Reclamation Act, for the use of the land owners; and
by the terms of the law and of the contract already
referred to, the water-rights became the property of the
land owners, wholly distinct from the property right
of the government in the irrigation works. Compare
Murphy v. Kerr, 296 Fed. 536, 544, 545. The government was and remained simply a carrier and distributor
of the water (ibid.), with the right to receive the sums
stipulated in the contracts as reimbursement for the cost
of construction and annual charges for operation and
maintenance of the works. As security therefor, it was
provided that the government should have a lien upon
the lands and the water-rights appurtenant thereto-a
provision which in itself imports that the water-rights
belong to another than the lienor, that is to say, to the
land owner.
The federal government, as owner of the public domain, had the power to dispose of the land and water
composing it together or separately; and by the Desert
Land Act of 1877 (c. 107, 19 Stat. 377), if not before,
Congress had severed the land and waters constituting
the public domain and established the rule that for the
future the lands should be patented separately. Acquisition of the government title to a parcel of land was not
to carry with it a water-right; but all non-navigable waters were reserved for the use of the public under the
laws of the various arid-land states. California Power
Co. v. Beaver Cement Co., 295 U. S. 142, 162. And in
those states, generally, including the State of Washington, it long has been established law that the right to the
use of water can be acquired only by prior appropriation
for a beneficial use; and that such right when thus obtained is a property right, which, when ,acquired for irrigation, becomes, by state law and here by express provi-

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

sion of the Reclamation Act as well, part and parcel of
the land 'upon which it is applied.
We are thus brought to the decisive question-is the
United States an indispensable party defendant? If so,
the suits, however meritorious, must fail, since no rule
is better settled than that the United States cannot be
sued except when Congress has so provided; and here that
has not been done. Petitioner's contention that the
United States is an indispensable party defendant and,
as it cannot be sued, the suits should have been dismissed,
.sbased upon the propositions, as we understand them,
that the United States is the owner of the water-rights;
that respondents' 'claims rest entirely upon executory
contracts; and that the relief sought is the substantial
equivalent of specific performance of these contracts.
The fallacy of the contention is apparent, because the
thus-far undenied allegations of the bill, as already appears, demonstrate that respondents have fully discharged all their contractual obligations; that their water-rights have become vested; and that ownership is in
them and npt in the United States. The motion to dismiss conced, s the truth of these allegations; but even if
they were denied, we should still be obliged to indulge
the presumption, in favor of the jurisdiction of the trial
court, that respondents might be able to prove them.
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 218, 219; cf. Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.204, 213 et seq. In support of
his contention, petitioner relies upon American Falls
Reservoir District v. Crandall, 82 F. (2d) 973; but that
decision, in so far as it is not in harmony with the view
which we have just taken, must be disapproved.
The suits do not seek specific performance of any contract. They are brought to enjoin the Secretary of the
Interior from enforcing-an order, the wrongful effect of
which will be to deprive respondents of vested property
rights not only acquired under Congressional acts, state

ICKES v. FOX
82

ET AL.

Opinion of the Court.

laws and government contracts, but settled and determined by his predecessors in office. That such suits may
be maintained without the presence of the United States
has been established by many decisions of this court,
of which the following are examples: Noble v. Union
River Logging R. Co., 147 U. S. 165, 171-2, 176; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 619; Goltra v.
Weeks, 271 U.'S' 536, 544; Work v. Louisiana, 269 U. S.
250, 254; Payne v. Central Pacific Ry. Co., 255 U. S. 228,
238. These decisions cite other, cases to the same effect.
The recognized rule is made clear by what is said in the
Stimson case:
"If the conduct of the defendant constitutes an unwarrantable interference with property of the complainant, its resort to equity for protection is not to be defeated
upon the ground that the suit is one against the United
States. The exemption of the United States from suit
does not protect its officers from personal liability to
persons whose rights of property they have wrongfully
invaded. . . . And in case of an injury threatened
by his illegal action, the officer cannot claim immunity
from injunction process. .
"The complainant did not ask the court to interfere
with the official discretion of the Secretary of War, but
challenged his authority to do the things of which complaint was made. The suit rests upon the charge of abuse
of power, and its merits must be determined accordingly;
it is not a suit against the United States."
The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.

130607°--37-7

