OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232, 237; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway,
281 U. S. 146, 159. The choice is as broad where the tax
is laid upon one or a few of the attributes of ownership as
when laid upon them all. Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107, 158, 159. True, collections might be larger if
the use were not dependent upon a prior purchase by the
user. On the other hand., economy in administration or
a fairer distribution of social benefits and burdens may
have been promoted when the lines were drawn as they
were. Such questions of fiscal policy will not be answered
by a court. The legislature might make the tax base as
broad or as narrow as it pleased.
The interlocutory injunction was erroneously granted.
and the decree must be
Reversed.
'MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

dissent.

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 500.

Argued March 2, 3, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. A payment by the Government of money due on a construction

contract, made to one who collected it under a power of attorney
and letter from the contractor intended to operate as an assignment (contrary to R. S., § 3477), is to be regarded as payment
to the contractor through his representative. P. 594.
2. The provisions of R. S., § 3477; 31 U. S. C. 203, declaring all
assignments of any claim upon the United States "absolutely null
and void" unless made after the allowance of such claim, the
asceitainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant
for the payment thereof, are provisions for the protection of the
0overnment, and not for the regulation of the equities of claim'ants growing out of irregular assignments, when collection is com/ plete and the Government's liability ended. P. 594.

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
588

589

Counsel for Parties.

3. Moneys due by the Government as deferred payments under a
building contract were paid over by the Government to the contractor, although the contractor had failed to perform the obligation imposed on him by the Materialmen's Act, 40 U. S. C. 270,
and by his bond, to pay persons who supplied labor and materials
in the progress of the work. The contractor, in obtaining his
bond, had promised the surety in writing that he would not assign
any such payments to any third person and had, on the contrary,
undertaken to assign them to the surety to the end that, in the
event of any breach or default in the government contract, such
money might be credited upon any loss or damage sustained by
the surety under the bond. Held that an equitable lien arose from
the assignment in favor of the surety to have the moneys received
by the contractor from the Government applied to the satisfaction
of the claims of laborers and materialmen, and that this equity
was superior to the claim of one who, with notice, had lent money
to the contractor and, under power of attorney from the contractor, had collected the deferred payments from the Government
and applied them to his loan. P. 595.
4. Failure to pay materialmen, as required by 40 U. S. C. 270, and
by the contractor's bond, is a default in the performance of the
construction contract, since the statute commands that the bond,
conditioned on such payments, shall be executed by the contractor
before the commencement of the work, and the terms of the bond
are read into the contract. P. 597.
85 F. (2d) 135, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 536, to review the affirmance of
a final decree of the District Court in a suit by the surety
on a bond securing a public building contract. At the
prayer of the surety, money paid the contractor by the
Government was impounded and applied to the claims
of materialmen and laborers. The petitioner in this case,
who had lent money to the contractor, had, by .the contractor's authority, received the payment from the Gov-

ernment and applied it to his debt.

Mr. Richard S. Bull, with whom Mr. Harold R. Small
was on the Prief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. H. Cunningham, Jr., with whom Mr. William L.
Igoe was on the brief, for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

MI. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A controversy is here as to the interests of rival claimants in moneys paid by the Government pursuant to a
building contract, the one claim being founded on an
assignment to a surety, which is held for the benefit of
materialmen and laborers, the other on a power of attorney, later than the assignment, which was given to a
creditor as security for a loan.
On February 12, 1932, a contract was made between the
Government of the United States and Tobin, a builder, for
the construction of a Post Office at Carlinville, Illinois.
The statute called for a bond with a good and sufficient
surety conditioned to the effect that the contractor would
promptly make payment to all persons supplying the
principal with labor and materials in the prosecution of
the work. 40 U. S. C. § 270; American Surety Co. v. Westinghouse Electric Co., 296 U. S. 133, 135. Such a bond
was given in the sum of $25,000 by the National Surety
Company, acting through Guy S. Martin, its agent.
Martin, who is the petitioner in this court, had been ordered by one of the officers of the company not to execute
the bond, and in signing it disobeyed the order. The fact
of disobedience was unknown to the obligee, and by concession the bond As binding according to its terms. In a
written application the contractor stated to the surety
that he had not assigned and would not assign to third persons his payments on the contract or any part thereof. In
further consideration of the execution of the bond he did
by the same instrument assign the payments to the surety
in the event of any breach or default in the contract, the
proceeds to be credited upon any loss or damage.* There
*The assignment reads as follows: "That in further consideration

of the execution df said bond, the undersigned hereby assigns, transfers and conveys to the Company all the deferred payments and re-

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
588

Opinion of the Court.

was also a covenant of indemnity, and a covenant that in
the event of the filing of any liens there would be a deposit
with the surety sufficient to secure them.
Martin's agency was canceled after the writing of the
bond in breach of his instructions. With full knowledge
of the application and of the duties there assumed, he
loaned moneys to the contractor from time to time under
an agreement for the division of the profits of the enterprise. By December, 1932, when the building was near
completion, the total of these loans was in excess of
$10,000, exclusive of any interest. The work had been
done to the satisfaction of the Government, but bills for
labor and materials were largely in default. The surety
became alarmed. In the latter part of December an officer
of the company gave notice to the contractor that the company would insist upon the execution of a power of attorney for the collection of any payments then owing from the
Government or falling due thereafter. Tobin took the
document away with him, promising to show it to his
lawyer. Instead he showed it to Martin, for whose benefit
he signed another power of attorney as well as a letter,
addressed to the Treasury Department, directing that all
checks for Tobin should thereafter go to Martin. These
documents were intended to have the effect of an assignment which would be security to Martin for the amount
of his advances. Both documents were forwarded to the
Treasury as soon as they were signed. The surety did not
know of them till five or six weeks later. At last, on Febtained percentages, and any and all moneys and properties that may
be due and payable to the undersigned at the time of any breach or
default in said contract, or that thereafter may become due and payable to the undersigned on account of said contract, or on account of
extra work or materials supplied in connection therewith, hereby
agreeing that such money, and the proceeds of such payments and
properties shall be the sole property of the Company and to be by it
credited upon any loss, cost, damage, charge and expense sustained or
incurred by it under said bond."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

ruary 4, 1933, Tobin, pressed again to carry out his agreement, admitted that the power of attorney had been
turned over to Martin, but promised to try to get it back.
Even then there was denial that it was on file in the Treasury. But the promise, even if sincere, was no longer susceptible of fulfilment. On the very day it was made, Martin had gone to Washington, had visited the Treasury, and
had received from the Government a warrant for $10,448.10, the progress or deferred payments then due upon
the contract. This sum he collected on February 6, and
applied upon his loans. At that time the building was
substantially completed, though there was still owing
from the Government $5,700, made up of a retained
percentage plus a small additional amount to cover
unfinished work.
The surety ascertained the truth a day or two thereafter. On February 9, 1933, it brought suit in a District
Courtin Missouri to protect the interests of the materialmen and laborers, joining Tobin and Martin as defendants as well as certain officers of the Government. It
prayed inter alia that the moneys received by Martin be
impounded, and that the fund, when deposited in court,
be disbursed in payment of the bills for material and labor, and in'exoneration of the bond. At the beginning of
the suit, Tobin was already insolvent. The surety became insolvent later, and renounced in favor of the materialmen and laborers all its rights and interests in the fund
in litigation. Martin, yielding to the compulsion of.
interlocutory decrees, paid into the registry of the court
what he had collected from the Government. After notice to materialmen and laborers to file their claims against
the fund, the court made a final decree disposing of the
controversy. Martin's claim was dismissed on the ground
that he was a partner with the contractor, and could gain
ijothing by his assignment except in subordination to the
.creditors. The claims of materialmen and l4borers (here-

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
588

Opinion of the Court.

inafter, for convenience, referred to as materialmen)
were considered and adjudicated, and distribution
was decreed.
The case went to the Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit upon an appeal by Martin. The decree was there
affirmed. 85 F. (2d) 135. Without disputing the finding that Martin was to share with Tobin in the profits of"
the enterprise, the Court of Appeals did not pass upon
the question whether the relation was one of partnership. It placed its ruling upon the broad ground that,
apart from any assignment or any statute, the proceeds
of a building contract are chargeable in favor of materialmen with an equitable lien, which attaches upon collection, even if not before, and which cannot be overridden
at the will of the contractor by payment to his other
creditors, though the payment be made in fulfilment of
a promise. For this it cited Belknap Hardware & Mfg.
Co. v. Ohio River.Contract Co., 271 Fed. 144, and United
States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Sweeney, 80 F. (2d)
235, 238, conceding the existence of other cases contra.
Third National Bank v. Detroit Fidelity & Surety Co.,
65 F. (2d) 548; Kane v. FirstNational Bank of El Paso,.
56 F. (2d) 534; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Union State
Bank, 21 F. (2d) 102. The opinion dwells upon the confusion in which the subject is enveloped. We granted
certiorari.
Our decision will be kept within the necessities of the
specific controversy here. Even so, the grounds chosen,
though narrower than those assigned below, may be expected to be helpful as a guide in other cases. The proceeds of the contract, when collected by Martin under
his power of attorney, were received by him with knowledge of the agreement between the contractor and the
surety whereby such proceeds became a fund to be devoted in the first instance to the payment of materialmen
and others similarly situated. In our view of the law,
130607 -37-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

the equities in favor of materialmen growing out of that
agreement were impressed upon the fund in the possession of the court.
An Act of Congress tells us that all transfers and
assignments "of any claim upon the United States
and all powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities for
receiving payment of any such claim . . . shall be
absolutely null and void, unless they are freely made, and
executed in the presence of at least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the, amount due, and the issuing of a warrant
for the payment thereof." R. S. § 3477; 31 U. S. C.
§ 203. By force of that pronouncement the Government was at liberty to hold the money back till demanded by the contractor personally, disregarding any
assignment or power of attorney for its payment to
another. But the Government did not choose to shape
its course accordingly. It turned over the money to
Martin as Tobin's representative, thus discharging its
indebtedness as effectively as if payment had been made
directly to the principal. McKnight v. United States, 98
U. S. 179. The case is to be viewed as if Tobin had
received the warrant, had put the proceeds in his bank,
and had paid them afterwards to Martin. Will Martin
be allowed to keep them in the face of his knowledge
of the earlier assignment to the surety and of the promise
that no assignment would be made to anyone else?
The provisions of the statute making void an assignment or power of attorney by a Government contractor
are for the protection of the Government. Hobbs v.
McLean, 117 U. S. 567, 576; McGowan v. Parish, 237
U. S. 285, 294, 295. In the absence of such a rule, the
Government would be in danger of becoming embroiled
in conflicting claims, with delay and embarrassment and
the chance of multiple liability. Hobbs v. McLean,

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
588

Opinion of the Court.

supra. But as .applied to the fund in controversy, that
peril is now past. The fund is in court to be distributed
to rival claimants, with the Government discharged irrespective of the outcome. The very fact $hat an assignment is permitted even as between the contractor and
the Government itself when the warrant is outstanding, if
the transfer be executed with prescribed formalities, is
significant that the Government is not concerned to
regulate the equities of claimants growing out of irregular
assignments when collection is complete and liability is
ended. The purpose of the statute "was not to dictate to
the contractor what he should do with the money received on his contract after the contract had been performed." Hobbs v. McLean, supra. A transfer of a
warrant has need to be accompanied by safeguards lest
the assignor may avoid it afterwards for forgery or fraud.
A transfer of tl-.e fund after payment is perfected is of
no concern to afiy one except the parties to the transaction, and this quite irrespective of the time of the assignment or the manner of its making.
If the Government has any interest in the outcome of
this controversy it is in sustaining the assignment to the
surety rather than destroying it. The contractor undertook that materialmen would receive their money
promptly while the work was going on. In failing to
pay them, he violated a duty to them, but a duty also
to the Government, for the default was a breach of the
condition of the bond. If the assignment to the surety
creates a lien upon the fund, the contractor will be compelled to fulfill the duty thus assumed. A different question would be present if the surety were seeking to
keep the money for itself. Cf. American Surety Co. v.
Westinghouse Electric Co., supra; Jenkins v. National
Surety Co., 277 U. S. 258, 266. There is no such effort
here. On the contrary, the surety, claiming nothing for

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

itself, is devoting the full proceeds of the assignment to
the satisfaction of the liabilities covered by the bond.
Has the assignment been so obliterated through the condemnation of the statute that when used by the surety
in aid of such a purpose it does not generate an equity
worthy of recognition?
The advocates of literalism find color of support in a
line of decisions made in very different circumstances
from these, but tending none the less to a strict construction of the statute. National Bank of Commerce v.
Downie, 218 U. S. 345; Nutt v. Knvt, 200 U. S. 12;
Spofford v. Kirk, 97 U. S. 484; United States v. Gillis,
95 U. S. 407. We do not pause to inquire with reference
to all the cases whether the necessities of the judgment
were as broad as the words of the opinion. Thus, in
National Bank of Commerce v. Downie, supra, to give a
single illustration, where the controversy was between
the trustee in bankruptcy of the contractor and prior
assignees, the claims against the Government which were
the subject of the assignment had never been allowed,
much less collected, though the decision cannot be said
to have been put on that ground. Another line of cases
exhibit an opposing tendency. Lay v. Lay, 248 U. S. 24;
Portuguese-AmericanBank v. Welles, 242 U. S. 7, 11, 12;
McGowan v. Parish, supra; Freedman's Saiing & T. Co.
v. Shepherd, 127 U. S. 494, 506; Hobbs v. McLean, supra;
Bailey.v. United States, 109 U. S. 432, 439; Goodman v.
Niblack, 102 U. S. 556, 559; McKnight v. United States,
supra; Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392. Cf. York
v. Conde, 147 N. Y. 486; 42 N. E. 193, dismissed 168 U. S.
642. These cases teach us that the statute must be interpreted in the light of its purpose to give protection to the
Government. After payments have been collected and
are in the hands of the contractor or subsequent payees
with notice, assignments may be heeded, at all events in
equity, if they will not frustrate the ends to which the

MARTIN v. NATIONAL SURETY CO.
588

Opinion of the Court.

prohibition was directed. See Lay v. Lay, supra, aff'g
118 Miss. 549; 79 So. 291. To the extent that the two
lines of cases are in conflict, the second must be held to
be supported by the better reason. Many an analogy
from fields uncovered by the statute reinforces that conclusion. An assignment ineffective at law may none the
less amount to the creation of an equitable lien when the
subject matter of the assignment has been reduced to
possession and is in the hands of the assignor or of persons
claiming under him with notice. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Shepard, 169 N. Y. 170; 62 N. E. 154;
Walker v. Brown, 165 U. S. 654; Fourth Street Bank v.
Yardley, 165 U. S. 634; Ketchum v. St. Louis, 101 U. S.
306. All this is familiar law. No reason is discoverable
in the policy of the statute why the analogy should be rejected in its application to the case at hand. Far from
defeating or prejudicing the interests of the Government,
the recognition of the equities growing out of the relation between the contractor and the surety will tend, as
already has been suggested, to make those interests prevail. Cf. Equitable Surety Co. v. McMillan, 234 U. S.
448, 456. It would be a strange construction of the statute that would make it necessary for the Government to
declare the equities illusory when they serve its own
good.
In what has been written we have assumed that the
failure to pay materialmen was a default of such a nature
as to impose a duty on the contractor to turn over the
payments to the surety upon appropriate demand.
There is argument to the contrary. According to that
argument the moneys were to be assigned in the event of
default in the performance of the contract between the
contractor and the Government, and not upon the failure
to pay persons other than the Government who had claims
against the contractor for materials or labor. But the
statute directs that a bond for the prompt payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.

598

Syllabus.

300 U. S.

materialmen and laborers shall be executed by the contractor before the commencement of the work. Not only
that, but the contract with the Government, which was
drawn in the standard form, is a confirmation and adoption of the statutory duty. The terms of the bond are
read into the contract, and there is default under the
contract when there is default under the bond.
We conclude that Martin's interest in the fund was correctly held to be subordinate to the interests of other
claimants. Without denying the possibility of arriving at
the same conclusion through other avenues of approach,
we follow the pathway that has been marked in this
opinion.
The decree should be
Affirmed.
BROWN v. O'KEEFE, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI

No. 575.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued March 8, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. Shares of national bank stock, scheduled by their registered owner
in his voluntary petition in bankruptcy, were disclaimed by the
trustee as burdensome assets, by direction of the court. Held
that notwithstanding the adjudication of bankruptcy, their ownership remained in the bankrupt, continuously, or by relation, from
the date of filing the petition. P. 602.
2. The statutory liability of a shareholder in a national bank in
course of voluntary liquidation (12 U. S. C. 181, 182), is enforcible by a creditor or creditors suing for themselves and for
others similarly situated. P. 603.
3. An assessment by the Comptroller is not a condition precedent,
in cases of voluntary liquidation, to proceedings by creditors.
P. 604.
4. Creditors of a national bank which is in course of voluntary liquidation and known to be insolvent, may enforce the statutory
liability of a bankrupt shareholder by filing their claims in the
court of bankruptcy. That court has authority to liquidate, or to

