276

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

POWELL

ET AL.,

300 U. S.

RECEIVERS, v. UNITED STATES
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 295.

Argued January 12, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in proceedings
begun on the complaint of a carrier, directed that there be
stricken from the Commission's files a tariff filed by another carrier
purporting to extend the switching limits of the latter to include
receiving and delivery tracks belonging to the United States at
a military post, and to oblige that carrier to furnish transportation
to and from the post under other tariffs applicable over its own
lines to and from a junction. Held that, in purpose and effect
the order was affirmative, and that a suit to annul it, brought
by the carrier whose tariff was thus rejected, was within the
jurisdiction of the District Court of three judges under 28 U. S. C.
47. P. 284.
2. With the consent of the Secretary of War, the lessees of a railroad owned by the United States in a military reservation were
employed by a connecting trunk-line carrier as its agents to transport over the leased tracks to and from the military post freight
coming from or destined for the trunk line; and the trunk line was
given permission to perform the transportation with its own engines
and crews, the lessees reserving the right to render like services to
other carriers when required by the Secretary. Held:
(1) That, in respect of the traffic covered by the trunk line's
tariff, the lessees, as its agents, were -common carriers, and they
and the service performed by them were subject to the jurisdiction
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. P. 285.
(2) That whether the leased tracks were, within the meaning
of § 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act, an extension or
addition, or, within the meaning of § 1 (22), spur, industrial, team,
switching or side tracks, the transportation over them by or for
the trunk line must be covered by a tariff filed in accordance with
§ 6 (7) of the Act. P. 286.
(3) The action of the Secretary of War was not inconsistent
with proper exertion of the Commission's authority under §§ 1 (18)
and 1 (20). P. 286.

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Syllabus.

(4) The leased tracks covered by the tariff were part of, and
extended to or included a station on, the line of the railroad company within the meaning of § 6. P. 286.
3. The purpose of §§ 1 (18) to 1 (22) of the Act was to empower
the Commission in proceedings instituted by a carrier proposing
to engage in transportation over or by means of an additional or
extended line authoritatively to decide whether it would be in the
public interest. P. 286.
4. Upon presentation by the carrier of application for a certificate,
the Commission, for the purpose of determining whether it is
authorized by the Act to consider the merits, may pass incidentally
upon the question whether the project is one covered by § 1 (18).
But the decision of that question is for the court in a suit to set
aside an order granting a certificate or ina suit under § 1 (20) to
enjoin. a violation of § 1 (18). P. 287.
5. An interested carrier is not authorized by the Act to initiate proceedings before the Commission to determine whether the use of
leased tracks by another carrier would be in the public interest,
but it may intervene before the Commission if application for a
certificate is made, or, no such application having been made, it
may sue under § 1 (20) to enjoin construction or operation
contrary to § 1 (18). P. 287.
6. The remedy provided by § 1 (20) is inconsistent with a proceeding before the Commission to attain the same end; and suits
under that paragraph may not be tried before three judges;
whereas those under the Urgent Deficiencies Act (28 U. S. C. 47)
to set aside orders of the Commission cannot be tried in any other
court. P. 288.
7. In suits under § 1 (20), appeals must be taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals; whereas appeals from District Courts of three
judges must be taken to this Court. The statutes cannot be construed to give the Commission, a carrier, or other party seeking
to enforce § 1 (18) a choice of remedies; i. e., betweena proceeding before the Commission to invalidate the applicable tariff
and a suit under § 1 (20). The latter is exclusive. P. 288.
8. There is no evidence in this case that inclusion of the government
line within the trunk line's tariff without additional charges
unduly impaired the line-haul revenue. P. 289.
9. Findings by the Commission in another proceeding in which it
rejected an application by another corporation, formed by the

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

lessees, for a certificate of public convenience and necessity, have
no bearing on the validity of the tariff involved in this case. P. 289.
10. In a suit by a- railroad to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission striking out a tariff, a counterclaim by an
intervening carrier seeking to enjoin the complainant's operation
of part of the line covered by the tariff, upon the ground that it
is an extension violative of § 1 (18), is not related to the cause
of action alleged in the complaint, is not pleadable under Equity
Rule 30, and is not within the jurisdiction of a court of three
judges under 28 U. S. C. 47. P. 289.
12 F. Supp. 938, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three.
judges in a suit brought by receivers of the Seaboard Air
Line Railway to annul an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission striking out a tariff. The final decree overruled the Government's motion to dismiss, sustained the order, and granted affirmative injunctive relief
against the plaintiff in accordance with a counterclaim
set up by a competing carrier.
Messrs. Charles T. Abeles and W. R. C. Cocke for
appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Elmer Collins,
Wendell Berge, E. M. Reidy, and Daniel W. Knowlton
were on the brief, for the United States and Interstate
Commerce Commission, appellees.
Mr. T. M. Cunningham, with whom Mr. A. R. Lawton,
Jr., was on the brief, for H. D. Pollard, Receiver of Central of Georgia Ry. Co., appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In proceedings initiated on complaint of the receiver
of the Central of Georgia Railway Company, the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered to be "stricken from

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

the files" a tariff filed by the receivers of the Seaboard
Air Line Railway Company. The tariff extended Fort
Benning Junction switching limits to include receiving
and delivery tracks at Fort Benning military post. It
was stricken on the ground that it extended to a station
and covered transportation not on the line of the Seaboard in violation of § 6 (1) of the Interstate Commerce
Act.1 206 I. C. C. 362. To annul that order the Seaboard brought this suit. The United States answered
that the order is not reviewable and prayed dismissal of
the complaint. The commission appeared and by its
answer supported the order. The. Central intervened;
its answer contained, in what purports to be a counterclaim under Equity Rule 30, allegations appropriate for
a complaint in a suit under § 1 (20) of the Act to prevent a violation of § 1 (18).2 The Seaboard moved to
1§

6 (1) "Every common carrier . . . shall file with the commission

. . . schedules showing all . . . charges for transportation between
different points on its own route and between points on its own route
and points on the route of any other carrier by railroad . . . when
a through route and joint rate have been established. . . . The
schedules . . . shall plainly state the places between which property
... will be carried . . . and . . . state separately all terminal
charges . . . and all other charges which the commission may require,
all privileges or facilities granted or allowed, and any rules or regulations which in any wise change, affect, or determine any part or
the aggregate of such . . . charges, or the value of the service
rendered . . ." [49 U. S. C. 6 (1) ]
§ 6 (7) "No carrier . . . shall engage or participate in the transportation of . . . property . . . unless the . . . charges . . . have
been filed . . . nor shall any carrier . . . collect . . . different compensation for such transportation . . . or for any service in connection therewith, between the points named in such tariffs than the
.. . charges which are specified in the tariff filed and in effect at the
time . . ." [49 U. S. C. 6 (7)]
2 1 (18) "No carrier by railroad . . . shall undertake the extension
of its line of railroad, or the construction of a new line of railroad, or
shall acquire or operate any line of railroad, or extension thereof, or
shall engage in transportation under this chapter over or by means of

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

strike out the counterclaim on the grounds, among
others, that it is not related to the cause of action alleged
in the complaint, is not pleadable under Rule 30, and is
not within the jurisdiction of a court of three judges
under 28 U. S. C., § 47.
The case was tried by a court of three, a circuit judge
and two district judges. After hearing the evidence, the
court in an opinion from which the circuit judge dissented held the order valid on the grounds that the tariff
aided the Seaboard to violate § 1 (18) of the Act and that
it unduly impaired the Seaboard's line haul revenue in
violation of § 4 (1) of the Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, 1933, 48 Stat. 212. 12 F. Supp. 938. It
entered a final decree denying the motion of the United
States to dismiss and the motion of the Seaboard to
strike out the counterclaim, declared the order valid
and, in accordance with the prayer of the counterclaim,
enjoined the Seaboard from extending its line from the
junction to the receiving and delivery tracks at Fort
Benning and from operating the line between these
points without obtaining from the commission a certificate of public convenience and necessity, and from using
the tariff and carrying out a contract for the use of the
such additional or extended line of railroad, unless and until there
shall first have been obtained from the commission a certificate that
the present or future public convenience and necessity require or
will require the construction, or operation, or construction and operation, of such additional or extended line of railroad . . ." [49 U. S.
C. 1 (18)]
§ 1 (20)"... Any construction, [or] operation . . . contrary
to the provisions of .. .paragraph (18) . ..may be enjoined by
any court of competent jurisdiction at the suit of the United States,
the commission, any commission or regulating body of the State or
States affected, or any party in interest . . ." [49 U. S. C. 1 (20)]
§ 1 (22) "The authority of the commission, conferred by paragraphs (18) to (21) .. .shall not extend to the construction . . .
of spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks, located or to be
located wholly within one State . . ." [49 U. S. C. 1 (22)]

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

tracks between the junction and the fort as devices to
avoid the need of such a certificate.
The questions for decision are:
Is the Seaboard's suit to set aside the commission's
order within the jurisdiction of the lower court? If so,
may its decree upholding the order be sustained?
Is the Central's counterclaim against the Seaboard
within the jurisdiction of the district court of three
judges under 28 U. S. C., § 47?
Fort Benning is a United States military post in
Georgia; the reservation includes 98,000 acres and has a
population of more than 7,500. A railroad 6.8 miles
long, built and owned by the United States, connects
receiving and delivery tracks at the post, Fort Benning,
with a station, Fort Benning Junction, at the. intersection of the lines of the Seaboard and the Central. For
more than eight years prior to October 16, 1932, the
line between the junction and Fort Benning was operated by the Central under a license granted by the Secretary of War. The Central made Fort Benning a station on its system. For transportation between the
junction and that station the Central collected arbitraries
fixed by it in addition to the tariff charges applicable
between the junction and points of origin or destination.
Most of the freight handled was inbound. The Seaboard
ceased to use its connection at the junction and interchanged traffic to and from Fort Benning with the Central at Columbia, about four miles from the junction.
In October, 1932, the Secretary of War revoked the
Central's license and arranged to have the railroad operated by contractors, Page and Harris. He leased to them
the line in question, and they agreed to transport all
freight to and from the junction. They undertook to
organize a corporation and to have it apply to the commission for a certificate of public convenience and necessity to acquire and operate the line as a common carrier

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and then, by agreements with other carriers, to put in
effect through routes and joint rates to and from Fort
Benning as low as those to and from the junction and,
out of its share of the rates so established, to take its pay
for transportation performed by it.
Page and Harris organized the Fort Benning Railroad
Company and caused it to apply for a certificate. The
Seaboard gave assurances that it would join the new
company in establishing through rates and divisions.
The Central intervened in opposition. The application
was granted by a division of the commission. 193
I. C. C. 223. But, on reargument before the entire commission, the certificate was rescinded and the application
denied. 193 !. C. C. 517. The applicant never operated the line.
Shortly after the failure of the contractors' company
to establish itself as a common carrier, the Seaboard
filed the tariff in question, to become effective December 4, 1933. Under date of June 7, 1934, it made a
contract with Page and Harris, stipulated to have been
in force since the effective date of the tariff, whereby
the latter agreed to act as its agents for transportation
of freight between the junction and the receiving and
delivery tracks named in the tariff. It agreed- to pay
them $12.50 for each loaded or partly loaded car handled
in either direction or one-half of the gross revenue when
the amount earned by the car was less than $25.
Paragraph (8) of the contract provides that when the
Seaboard so desires, but subject to approval by the Secretary, it shall have the right, upon payment of reasonable compensation to Page and Harris, to perform
switching service with its own engines and crews over
the leased tracks. By paragraph (14) of the contract
Page and Harris reserve the right, subject to the Secretary's approval, to render like service for the Central or
any other common carrier. The Secretary approved

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

paragraph (8) subject to the reservation in paragraph
(14) and to the condition that Page and Harris should
ever hold themselves out as willing and ready to contract
on similar terms with the Central or any other common
carrier railroad.
The Central's complaint initiating the proceedings
which resulted in the challenged order assailed the tariff
on the grounds that it and the contract with Page and
Harris constitute a device to avoid the commission's
refusal to grant the Fort Benning Railroad Company a
certificate of convenience and necessity; that by it the
Seaboard seeks to extend its line to Fort Benning without obtaining a certificate and that it does not comply
with § 6 (1) because it is obscure and ambiguous and
fails to state the charges to be absorbed by the Seaboard
or the compensation to be paid to Page and Harris.
The complaint prayed cancelation of the tariff and cease
and desist orders against the Seaboard and Page and
Harris. It is obvious from the allegations and prayer
of the complaint, as well as from its contentions before
the commission, that the Central sought to have the
commission prohibit the use by the Seaboard or its agents
of the line between the junction and the fort because
in violation of § 1 (18).
The commission's report states: The Seaboard employs
Page and Harris as its agents and pays them for performance of transportation over the leased line and that
service is common carrier service within the jurisdiction
of the commission. The Central has not filed a similar
tariff and does not perform or bear the cost of service
corresponding to that covered by the Seaboard's tariff.
Before the Seaboard could lawfully operate the line from
the junction to the fort, it would have to obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity. But the commission did not decide whether, on that ground, it had
jurisdiction to order the Seaboard or Page and Harris to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court

300 U. S.

cease and desist or to suspend or set aside the tariff. It
said (206 I. C. C. at p. 367): "Our finding of unlawfulness of the tariff . . .. is not predicated on the fact.
that the Seaboard has violated section 1 (18), but rather
on the fact that it has published rates to and from Fort
Benning, a station not on its line and which cannot be
reached by it or any other common carrier, and consequently it cannot pay out of its line-haul rates for a
service which it is not legally obligated to perform and
which it cannot perform except through the employment
of the contractors with the Government." It added that
approval by the Secretary of War of tha contract between the Seaboard and Page and Harris "granted no
rights to the Seaboard to operate over the track in question. Manifestly the War Department could take no action on a subject matter which the Congress has placed
under our exclusive jurisdiction." The commission did
not find that the tariff imposed any unreasonable burden
upon the revenues of the Seaboard or connecting carriers or that the services covered by it would be performed for less than reasonable compensation or that its
use would result in any disadvantage to shippers, carriers
or the public.
1. The United States and the Interstate Commerce
Commission contend that the commission's order is not
reviewable under the statute.' They do not suggest that
the order is a negative one or that the commission did
not make an utterance which in form purported to be an
order. But they say that it is not directed to any party;
it requires no one to do or to refrain from doing any
act; it could not be enforced, obeyed or disobeyed; it did
not speak to the future or contemplate any future effect
because, on and after the date it was made, it had no
'See 28 U. S. C. §§ 41 (28), 43, 44, 45, 45a, 47, 47a, 345.

Cf. § 380.

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

significance "except as a record of a certain completed
act performed by the Commission."
But overemphasis upon the mere form of the order
may not be permitted to obscure its purpose and effect.
By it the commission meant to put an end to the tariff in
question and the service of the Seaboard according to its
terms. The tariff was a rule binding the Seaboard to
furnish transportation to and from the fort for charges
under other tariffs applicable to and from the junction.
The order would eliminate that rule and substitute for it
terms of the tariffs applicable prior to its effective date.
In effect the order grants the relief sought by the Central's complaint; it confines the Seaboard's service within the junction switching limits, denies leave to that carrier to furnish, and prevents it from furnishing, transportation to and from Fort Benning. Interpreted according
to its purpose, the order is in substance and effect an
affirmative one and therefore reviewable under the statute. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263. Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 490. United States
v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533, 539-541. Alton R. Co. v.
United States, 287 U. S. 229, 237. It is clear that the
district court of three judges had jurisdiction to entertain
the Seaboard's suit.
2. As to the validity of the order. The commission
held the tariff violated § 6 solely because it covered service and published rates to and from a station, Fort Benning, found not to be on the line of the Seaboard. It
may be assumed that, unless the record conclusively
shows that the leased tracks constitute a part of the Seaboard's line within the meaning of § 6, the tariff was
not authorized and the commission's order should be sustained. In substance, the facts found are: The United
States leased the line to Page and Harris. With the approval of, the Secretary, the lessees were employed by the

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Seaboard as its agents to transport freight over the leased
tracks, and the Seaboard was given the right to perform
the transportation with its own engines and crews. Page
and Harris reserved the right to render for the Central
and other carriers service like that furnished by them as
agent of the Seaboard, and were required by the Secretary to contract with such carriers on terms similar to
those made with the Seaboard. The commission rightly
held that in respect of the traffic covered by the tariff
Page and Harris as the Seaboard's agents were common
carriers and they and the service performed by them were
subject to its jurisdiction.
Whether the leased tracks be, within the meaning of
§ 1 (18), an extension or addition, or, within the meaning
of § 1 (22), spur, industrial, team, switching or side
tracks, it is clear that the transportation over them by or
for the Seaboard is required to be covered by a tariff filed
in accordance with the Act. § 6 (7). The action of the
Secretary was not inconsistent with proper exertion of
the commission's authority to grant or withhold a certificate of public convenience and 'necessity for the use of
the leased tracks by or for the Seaboard as required by
§ 1 (18) or to bring suit under § 1 (20) to enforce that
paragraph. It follows that, § 1 (18) aside, the leased
tracks covered by the tariff constitute a part of, and
extend to or include a station on, the line of the Seaboard within the meaning of § 6. Indeed, there is nothing in the commission's report or in the briefs of appellees
that tends to give support to the view that, if § 1 (18)
had not been enacted, the tariff would not be valid.
As to the bearing of § 1 (18) on the validity of the tariff.
The United States and the commission argue that the
Seaboard cannot, by the arrangement for the use of the
leased tracks, place Fort Benning on its line, because
thereby the Seaboard extends its line and § 1 (18) prohibits an extension without the commission's approval;

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

that the tariff offers a service that cannot legally be performed because the extension, not having been approved,
is forbidden by that paragraph. And they say that, since
the carrier is required to furnish whatever service is
covered by its tariffs, the inclusion of that within the
Seaboard's extended switching limits would compel the
carrier to perform an act prohibited by § 1 (18), and
this the commission may not permit. The purpose of
§§ 1 (18) to 1 (22) of the Act was to empower the commission' in proceedings instituted by a carrier proposing
to engage in transportation over or by means of an additional or extended line authoritatively to decide whether
it would be in the public interest. Unless the project.
is one covered by § 1 (18), the commission is not authorized by the Act to consider whether it is in the publie interest and, for lack of jurisdiction to determine that
question, it must deny the application. Upon presentation by the carrier of application for a certificate, the
commission, for the purpose of determining whether it
is authorized by the Act to consider the merits, may pass
incidentally upon the question whether the project is
one covered by § 1 (18). But the decision of that question is for the court in either a suit to set aside an order
granting. a certificate or in a suit under § 1 (20) to enjoin a violation of § 1 (18). The function of the court
is to construe that paragraph; that of the commission
is to determine whether the project, if it is one covered
by the paragraph, is in the public interest. The Central was not authorized by the Act to initiate a proceeding before the commission to determine whether the Seaboard's use of the leased tracks was or would be in the
public interest. If application for a certificate had been
made, the Central could have appeared in opposition.
The Seaboard not having made application, the Central's
sole remedy was a suit under § 1 (20). That paragraph
provides the only method for enforcing § 1 (18). It de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

clares that any construction or operation contrary to
§ 1 (18) may be enjoined at the suit of the United States,
the commission, the regulating body of the State affected
or any party in interest. Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Gulf,
C. & S. F. Ry., 270 U. S. 266, 271-274. Piedmont &
Northern Ry. v. United States, 280 U. S. 469, 476 et seq.
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. United States, 283 U. S. 35,
42. Western Pacific California R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S. 47. St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Missouri
Pacific R. Co., 289 U. S. 76, 81, 82. Transit Commission v. United States, 289 U. S. 121. United States v.
Idaho, 298 U. S.105, 109.
The contention of the United States and the commission comes to this: Fort Benning is not a station on the
Seaboard's line because by use of the tariff and the leased
tracks the carrier violates § 1 (18). Since the tariff extends to a station not on the carrier's line, it violates § 6.
Therefore the commission rightly ordered the tariff to
be stricken from its files. Plainly that begs the question.
It takes for granted a violation of § 1 (18), a fact not
established aid one which the commission had no jurisdiction to determine. The contention is fallacious and
must be rejected.
Plainly, the Central mistook its remedy. By its complaint against the tariff it sought an order of the commission equivalent to a decree of court in a suit under
§ 1 (20) enjoining the Seaboard from extending its service because contrary to § 1 (18). The order, as construed
and supported by appellees, is the practical equivalent of
such a decree. The governing statutory provisions do not
permit substitution of the cofmission's order for a decree
of court. The remedy provided by § 1 (20) is clearly inconsistent with a proceeding before the commission to
attain the same end. Suits under that paragraph may
not be tried before three judges. Those under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act (28 U. S. C., § 47) to set aside orders

POWELL v. UNITED STATES.
276

Opinion of the Court.

of the commission cannot be tried in any other court.
In suits under § 1 (20), appeals must be taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Appeals from district courts
of three judges must be taken to this court. The statutes
cannot be construed to give the commission, a carrier or
other party seeking to enforce § 1 (18) a choice of remedies; i. e., between a proceeding before the commission
to invalidate the applicable tariff and a suit under § 1
(20). The latter is exclusive.
The gravamen of the Central's complaint is not that
the Seaboard is engaging in transportation like that furnished by the Central before the Secretary revoked its
license. But it is that the Seaboard does it without additional charges. There is nothing in the findings of the
commission to suggest that the tariff unduly burdens the
Seaboard's revenue or that it is unreasonable or unjustly
discriminatory. Its findings on the Fort Benning Railroad Company's application although put in evidence are
not findings in the proceeding in which was made the
order in question and have no bearing on the validity of
the tariff Under consideration. The lower court erred in
sustaining the commission's order on the ground that
the "tariff unduly impairs the line haul revenue." The
commission did not so find. The order cannot be sustained.
3. The counterclaim was not properly before the court
and could not be entertained as an incident to or part of
the suit to set aside the commission's order respecting the
tariff.
The Seaboard's bill merely assails the commission's
order. The issue between the original parties is confined
to its validity. The suit is a statutory one triable only
in a specially constituted court. The counterclaim is
based on a violation of § 1 (18); the facts alleged are not
sufficient to constitute a cause of action within the jurisdiction of that court. Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry.
130607°-37-

19

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

v. United States, 281 U. S. 479, 488. Moreover, the
counterclaim does not arise out of the transaction that is
the subject of the suit and is not germane or related to
it. Equity Rule 30 cannot reasonably be construed to
authorize intervening defendants, in a suit to set aside
an order of the commission, to set up counterclaims not
arising out of or related to the subject matter of the
suit. That would permit complications likely to burden
and impede and would be contrary to the purpose and
intent of the rule. Chandler & Price Co. v. Brandtjen
& Kluge, Inc., 296 U. S. 53, 59. The counterclaim, not
being within the jurisdiction of the specially constituted
court, should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry. v. United States,
ubi supra.
Complainants were entitled to the judgment and decree of the specially constituted court declaring that the
commission's order striking the tariff from its files is
illegal and void and setting aside and annulling the same.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO is of the opinion that the decree
should be modified by striking the counterclaim of the
intervening defendant, and as so modified, affirmed.
INGELS, DIRECTOR OF THE MOTOR VEHICLE

DEPARTMENT,

ET AL. V. MORF ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT 'COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 456. Argued February 5, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.
1. To justify the exaction by a State of a money payment burdening
interstate commerce, it must affirmatively appear that it is de-

