THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
50

55

Syllabus.

should be afforded. Permission to supply authentication of the record would have occasioned no material injury to any party, nor interfered seriously with the business of the Court. In the circumstances we must regard
the denial of an opportunity to amend as an abuse of
discretion-a violation of the spirit if not the letter of the
Rules.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The cause will be remanded there for further
proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

THOMPSON ET AL. V. CONSOLIDATED GAS
UTILITIES CORP. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 89. Argued November 18, 19, 1936.-Decided February 1, 1937.
1. Under the common law of Texas (apart from statute), the owner
of land has title to the natural gas in place, including that which
migrates there from other lands of the gas field, -and may produce
all that will flow from his well, and may drill off-sets to get his
full share from the common supply. P. 68.
2. In support of administrative regulations purporting to be made
under legal authority, there is a presumption of the existence of
facts justifying the specific exercise. P. 69.
3. Orders limiting and prorating the production of gas by the several
owners of land in a gas field must be held invalid if shown to bear
no reasonable relation either to the prevention of waste or to the
protection of correlative rights, or if shown to be otherwise
arbitrary. P. 69.
4. Quaere whether c. 120, Texas Acts, 1935, should be construed as
attempting to authorize the State Railroad Commission to reduce
the production of gas from wells owned by the owners of private
pipe-lines, for the sole purpose of making them buy gas produced
by others who lack pipe-line connections. P. 73.
5. This Court is reluctant to pass upon a seriously controverted
question of the meaning of a state statute, because its decision,

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

although disposing- of the particular case, cannot settle the proper
constru ,tion of the statute. P. 74.
6. In construing, on appeal, a state statute which has not been construed by the state courts, this Court is disposed to accept the
construction given it by the lower federal court, particularly when
that court is composed wholly of citizens of the State. P. 74.
7. Where one party's case depends upon a construction of a state
statute bringing it plainly in conflict with the Federal Constitution,
and where the proper construction of the statute has not been
settled by the state courts but is gravely doubtful, this Court will
rest its decision on the Constitution, and will not undertake to
decide the question of construction, as to which it lacks the power
to give a definitive answer. P. 75.
8. One person's property may not be taken for the benefit of another
private person, even though compensation be paid. Pp. 77-79.
9. Some of the owners of wells in a Texas gas field had established contract light and fuel markets for their gas in distant
places by means of their privately owned pipe-lines. The other
owners of wells could not operate because there was no local
light and fuel market for gas and they had no pipe-lines to
transport it elsewhere, and because to employ it in the manufacture of natural gasoline and carbon black was forbidden by
the State as wasteful. The Texas Railroad Commission, claiming authority under a statute (c. 120, Texas Acts, 1935), made
an order purporting to limit the total daily production of the
field and to prorate the allowed production among the several
wells. Although the pipe-line owners were operating their wells
without waste and without injury to others, and although their
supply was ample to supply their market needs, the order, if
enforced, would have reduced their production so drastically that,
to fulfill their contract obligations to their customers, they must
purchase gas from the other well owners and must suffer other
losses through curtailment of plant activity and through migration of gas underground away from their wells to other parts of
the field where the pressure was lower. The purpose of the
order, as plainly shown by evidence and court findings, was
neither to prevent waste nor to prevent undue drainage from
the reserves of other well owners, but was solely to compel the
pipe-line owners to furnish a market to those who had no pipeline connections. Held the order is void under the Federal Constitution as a taking of private property for private benefit.

Pp. 76-79.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.

57

Opinion of the Court.

55

10. A private party is not estopped to attack provisions of a statute that are harmful to his interests merely because he sought
the enactment of other and separable provisions in it, beneficial
to him in an incidental way, but neither relied on by him nor
brought in question, in the litigation. P. 80.
14 F. Supp. 318, affirmed.

APPEAL from decrees of the District Court, of three
judges, which permanently enjoined the Railroad Commission of the State of Texas and the Attorney General
from enforcing an order of the Commission limiting production of gas in the Panhandle Fields. The two cases
were consolidated for purpose of appeal. See also 12 F.
Supp. 462, a decision on motion for a preliminary
injunction.

Messrs. Win. Madden Hill, Assistant Attorney General of Texas, and C. C. Small, with whom Mr. William
McCraw, Attorney General, and Messrs. William C.
Davis and W. J. Holt, Assistant Attorneys General, and
Maurice Cheek were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. S. A. L. Morgan, with whom Messrs. C. C. Mount,
J. J. Hedrick, C. H. Keffer, and D. H. Culton were on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case challenges the validity of a gas proration
order issued by the Railroad Commission of Texas for
the Panhandle fields on December 10, 1935, and carried
forward in supplemental orders.' The orders were en'The complainants' original bills challenged earlier orders issued
by the Railroad Commission under the Act here in question, notably
the orders of August 28, and September 25, 1935. These orders were
the subjects of temporary injunctions granted in Texas Panhandle
Gas Co. v. Thompson, 12 F. Supp. 462. Upon the issuance of
the order of December 10, 1935, complhinants amended their bills

to make that order and its supplements the object of their attack.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

tered under Chapter 120 of the Texas Acts, 1935, FortyFourth Legislature, Regular Session, commonly known
as House Bill 266. Under the orders the production of
sweet gas from the plaintiffs' wells is limited to an
amount below their market requirements under existing
contracts, below their present production, and below the
capacity of their transportation and marketing facilities.
It is charged that the purpose of so limithig the production is not to prevent waste, or to prevent invasion of the
legal rights of co-owners in the common reservoir, but
solely to compel the plaintiffs, and others similarly situated, to purchase gas from those well owners who have
not provided themselves with a market and marketing
facilities-well owners who under existing law are obliged
to stop production, for want of a market, unless some
marketing outlet is found.
Two suits to enjoin enforcement of the order were
brought in the federal court for western Texas. One was
by Texas Panhandle Gas Utilities Company, for which
Consolidated Gas Utilities Corporation has been substituted as plaintiff; the other by Texoma Natural Gas
Company. In each suit the members of the Railroad
Commission and the Attorney Generalof the State were
made defendants. The properties for which the plaintiffs seek protection are their sweet gas wells and reserves
in the Texas Panhandle; their pipe lines extending into
other States; their compressors and marketing facilities
for use in connection therewith; and contracts which
they have made for the supply of the gas to distributors
in other States. The plaintiffs claim that the 6rder takes
this property without warrant in law. They contend that
the order is in excess of the authority which House Bill
266 confers upon the Commission; and that if the statute
be construed as conferring the authority exercised, it
violates the Federal Constitution and that of the State.
The District Judge issued a restraining order. The cases

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

59

Opinion of the Court.

were considered together. The court, three judges sitting,
granted temporary injunctions, Texas Panhandle Gas Co.
v. Thompson, 12 F. Supp. 462,2 and made them permanent, Consolidated Gas Utilities Corp. v. Thompson, 14
F. Supp. 318. The cases were consolidated for purposes
of appeal. The jurisdiction, federal and equitable, was
not questioned. The record is extensive; the findings of fact
explicit; the briefs in this Court occupy over 500 pages.
The Texas Panhandle contains the largest natural gas
field in the United States, an enormous reservoir of natural gas and oil extending through seven counties for a
distance of 125 miles with a width of from 10 to 40 miles.
The development of the gas industry which began there
in 1926 has proceeded at a rapid rate since 1933. The
field produces both sweet and sour gas.' Wasteful use
of sweet gas is prohibited by the statute; and, within the
statutory definition, practically the only non-wasteful
use is for heat and light. For such use there is substantially no local market,4 as the region is sparsely settled.
Gas cannot be stored. To utilize the sweet gas of the
Panhandle field, it must be delivered to the ultimate consumer by pipe lines in a continuous flow from the wells
to the burner tips of the consumer. Prior to the entry
of the orders challenged, the owners of approximately
80 percent of the total area in the Panhandle fields
'Compare note 1, supra.
'Only sweet gas is fit for lighting and heating. Sour gas is that
contaminated by sulphur compounds. It is now used in this field
principally in the manufacture of carbon black. When the act was
passed, plants supplying 70% of the carbon black manufactured in
the United States were operating in this field.
"The small market for sweet gas within the field is limited to fuel
for the drilling of wells and the operation of industries incident to
the oil and gas business; to small pipe lines supplying gas to commuriies near the field; and to purchases by two companies with
pipe lines to distant cities. These have made 30 new connections
with wells of others and are taking riteably from these wells.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

proven productive of sweet gas had constructed six major
pipe lines from the West Panhandle field,' and three from
the East Panhandle field, extending to Chicago, Des
Moines, Omaha, Sioux City, Kansas City, St. Paul, Indianapolis, Denver, Minneapolis, Fort Worth, Dallas, and
other distant points. Six or seven of these major pipe
line companies, including the plaintiffs', have produced
and transported to the markets only gas produced from
their own leases.
Under the restrictions imposed by the present statute,
there is substantially no market outlet for the sweet gas
of these fields except such as may be provided by pipe
lines. The owners of 180 wells in the West Panhandle
field, and of 121 wells in the East Panhandle field, together representing about 20 per cent of the proven reserves of sweet gas in the whole field, neither own nor
control any pipe line. And they have no access to any;
since none of the pipe lines here involved is a common
carrier. The plaintiffs and most of the other owners of
pipe lines have no economic occasion to purchase gas from
wells of the non-pipe line producers, as the potential
capacity of their own wells far exceeds their market demand.7 There appears no legal obstacle, under the law of
For administrative purposes the territory is divided into the East
Panhandle and the West Panhandle zones. The West zone alone
contains any sour gas area. The sweet gas area of the West Pan-

handle field embraces 723,000 acres. In it there are 517 wells, 180
of which do not have an outlet for light and.fi l&purposes. The sweet
gas area of the East Panhandle field embraces 181,000 acres. In it
there are 322 wells, of which 121 do not have an outlet for light
and fuel purposes. Gas from the Panhandle field is supplied for
domestic and industrial light and fuel purposes to approximately
10,000,000 persons in the United States.
'The only exception to this is in the case of the few independent
wells with which two of the pipe line companies have made connections. See note 4, supra.
Thus at' the time of the hearing below, Texoma Natural Gas Co.
was "producing" its wells at the rate of about 10 per cent of their

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

61

Opinion of the Court.

Texas, to the construction of additional pipe lines to serve
the owners of wells in the Panhandle fields now without
such connections. It is said that there are communities
in other States which would afford markets if pipe lines
were constructed to reach them. But the financial difficulties are obvious.
Prior to House Bill 266, several efforts, statutory and
administrative, had been made to compel, or induce, the
owners of existing pipe lines to purchase the sweet gas
of those well owners who lack pipe line facilities. Orders entered under statutes enacted prior to 1933 were
enjoined as unconstitutional or ultra vires.8 By chapter
daily potential capacity, and the average throughout the year, it was
found, had been and would be substantially less than this figure.
The highest percentage of ihe daily potential ever taken over a period
of one month for all of the wells of Consolidated Gas Utilities Corporation has been 6.53 per cent. The wells of other pipe line owners
in these fields have likewise been "produced" at low percentages of
capacity.
' (a) Chapter 28, Acts 1931, Forty-Second Legislature, First Called
Session, known as The Common Purchaser Act, was construed and
applied by the Railroad Commission as requiring private pipe line
companies engaged theretofore only in producing and transporting
gas from their own leases to purchase without discrimination, under
regulations of the Commission, quantities of gas offered them by
producers in the field lacking their own pipe lines. The Act was held
unconstitutional as in violation of the due process and commerce
clauses of the Federal Constitution, and enforcement of the orders
was enjoined, in Texoma Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission,

59 F. (2d) 750.
(b) Purporting to act under the general conservation laws of the
State, as amended by Chapter 26, Acts 1931, Forty-Second Legislature, First Called Session, the Railroad Commission subsequently
issued orders completely closing down some portions of the Panhandle
field, and limiting production from pipe line companies' wells in other
portions. Enforcement of these orders was enjoined on the ground
that the Commission's action was ultra vires, in Texoma Natural

Gas Co. v. Terrell, 2 F. Supp. 168.
(c) By Chapter 2, Acts 1932, Forty-Second Legislature, Fourth
Called Session, the Railroad Commission was meantime authorized,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.'

300 U. S.

100, Acts 1933, Forty-Third Legislature, Regular Session," the use of natural gas was permitted for other purposes than light or fuel, including the manufacture of
natural gasoline, where no reasonable market for light or
fuel was available to the owner. Production under authority of this statute and the permits issued thereunder
was found to involve intolerable waste." Such was the
situation, when on May 1, 1935, the Legislature enacted
House Bill 266, under which the order here challenged
was issued.
The Act undertakes by drastic provisions to end the
waste of sweet gas. It provides:
"Sec. 3. The production, transportation, or use of natural gas in such manner, in such amount, or under such
conditions as to constitute waste is hereby declared to be
unlawful and is prohibited. The term 'waste' among
whenever the full production from wells producing gas from a common reservoir should exceed reasonable market demand, to limit
production to such demand and allocate the allowable production.
Orders purporting to be issued under the authority of this Act were
enjoined in CanadianRiver Gas Co. v. Terrell, 4 F. Supp. 222, on the
ground that they were ultra vires because the statute authorized regulation only to prevent waste, and the court concluded that the orders
did not bear any reasonable relation to that end.
(d) Then followed the enactment of the statute now under consideration.
'As amended by Chapter 88, Acts 1933, Forty-Third Legislature,
First Called Session. Compare F. C. Henderson, Inc. v. Railroad
Commission, 56 F. (2d) 218; Sneed v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 76 F.
(2d) 785.
1According to evidence presented by the State) in July, 1935,
before the prohibitions of House Bill 266 became effective against
uses therein declared wasteful, there were in the West Panhandle
field 41 stripping plants producing natural gasoline, consuming daily
1,847,339 M. C. F. sweet gas, from which the gasoline production
saved only 3 per cent of the fuel value of the gas in its original
state. Between February 1, 1933, and August 1, 1935, 709 billion
cubic feet of gas were said to have been blown into the air after the
natural gasoline content had been extracted.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED. GAS CO.
55

63

Opinion of the Court.

other things shall specifically include: [then follow specifications (a) to (m) inclusive].
"(h) The production of natural gas in excess of transportation or market facilities, or reasonable market demand for the type of gas produced."
The defendants contend that the Act likewise requires
restriction of production regardless of the existence of
waste, for the adjustment of rights of owners in a common reservoir of gas. And as we read the substance of
defendants' argument, they also construe the statute as
authorizing gas proration orders, to provide a market for
the sweet gas of those wells which, because they lack pipe
line connections, have heretofore sold their gas for inferior, wasteful uses. These claims are rested primarily
on the following provision:
"Sec. 10. It shall be the duty of the Commission to
prorate and regulate the daily gas well production from
each common reservoir in the manner and method herein
set forth. The Commission shall prorate and regulate
such production for the protection of public and private
interests: (a) In the prevention of waste as 'waste' is
defined herein; (b) In the adjustment of correlative rights
and opportunities of each owner of gas in a common reservoir to produce and use or sell such gas as permitted
in this Article."
This provision is supplemented by others including
those'set forth in the margin:"
"SECTION 1. Declaration of policy: In recognition of past, present, and imminent evils occurring in the production and use of natual
[natural] gas, as a. result of waste in the production and use thereof
in the absence of correlative opportunities of owners of gas in a common reservoir to produce and use the same, this law is enacted for
the protection of public and private interests against such evils by
prohibiting waste and compelling ratable production."
'SEC. 11. The Commission shall exercise the authority to accomplish the purpose designated under item (a) of Section 10 when
the presence or imminence of waste is supported by a finding based

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

On December 10, 1935, the Railroad Commission, after
hearings held, issued the basic order here challenged,
which provides, among other things:
"It is ordered, That effective, 7 o'clock A. M., December 11, 1935, the daily allowable gas production, computed on the basis set forth in House Bill No. 266, is as
follows:
East Panhandle Field .................. 181,174,000 cubic feet daily
West Sweet Panhandle Field ............ 608,552,000 cubic feet daily
West Sour Panhandle Field ............. 451,137,000 cubic feet daily

"It is ordered, That the daily allowable production of
gas for individual wells in the East and West Panhandle
Fields shall be determined by dividing the reasonable
market demand into two parts, and that these parts shall
be distributed to each well in proportion to the relative
upon the evidence introduced at a hearing to be held as herein
provided.
"The Commission shall exercise the authority to accomplish the
purpose designated under item (b) of Section 10 when evidence introduced at a hearing to be held as herein provided will support a
finding made by the Commission that the aggregate lawful volume
of the open flow or daily potential capacity to produce of all gas
wells located in a common reservoir, is in excess of the daily reasonable market demand for gas from gas wells that may be produced
from such common reservoir, to be utilized as permitted in this
Article.
"SEc. 12. On or before the twentieth (20th) day of each calendar
month the Commission shall hold a hearing .

.

. for the purpose of

determining the aggregate daily capacity to produce of all gas wells
in a common reservoir, and as nearly as possible, the daily volume
of gas from each common reservoir that will be produced from gas
wells during the following month to be utilized as permitted in this
Article. Upon such determination, the Commission, based upon
evidence introduced at such hearing, shall allocate to each gas well
producing gas from such common reservoir a percentage of the daily
productive capacity of each well which may be produced daily during the following month from each gas well producing gas from such
common reservoir. Such percentage of the daily producing capacity

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.

65

Opinion of the Court.

55

producing ability of these individual wells and the number of acres containing each of these wells, but in no
case shall more than one hundred sixty (160) acres in
the East Panhandle Field and not more than Six Hundred Forty (640) acres in the West Panhandle Field, in
both sweet and sour zones, be allocated to any one well
for the purpose of proration.
"It is ordered, That the total daily allowable production of gas from gas wells in the East and West Panof each well shall be regarded as its daily allowable production of
such daily volume required for utilization from such common
reservoir....
"SEc. 14. It shall be the duty of the Commission, after notice and
hearing, to ascertain and determine the reasonable market demand
for gas from gas wells to be used for light and fuel purposes and
for all other lawful purposes to which sweet gas may be put under
the terms of this Article and by proper order to restrict the production of gas from all gas wells in said field producing such gas to an
amount equal to market demand of to an amount which may be
produced without waste as otherwise defined; provided, however,
the production of such gas shall in any event be restricted to the
amount of the reasonable market demand therefor. In such order
the Commission shall allocate, distribute or apportion the total allowable production from such field among the various gas wells affected
by the order on a reasonable basis, and as provided in Section
13....
"SEc. 16. It shall be unlawful for any person to produce gas from
a gas well as herein defined in excess of the daily allowable production in such schedule of allowable production. ...
"SEC. 20. In the event the Commission finds that the owner of any
gas well has failed or refused to utilize or sell the allowable production from his well when such owner has been offered a connection
or market for such gas at a reasonable price, such well shall be excluded from consideration in allocating the daily allowable production
from the reservoir or zone in which same is located until the owner
thereof signifies to the Commission his desire to utilize or sell such
gas. In all other cases all gas wells shall be taken into account in
allocating the allowable production among wells producing the same
type of gas."
130607°-37-----5

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

handle Fields shall be distributed and prorated among
the individual wells on the following basis and in the
following manner, to-wit: Fifty (50%) per cent of the
reasonable market demand of the field shall be allocated
on the ratio of the individual well acreage to the sum of
the total well acreage in the field; and fifty (50%) per
cent of the reasonable market demand of the field shall
be allocated on the ratio of the individual well potential
to the sum of the total well potentials in the field."
The order reduces plaintiffs' allowable production to
a volume far below their requirements. The plaintiffs
and other pipe line owners acquired, at large cost, their
markets in distant States and their transportation and
marketing facilities.12 By means of their pipe lines all
the sweet gas produced by the plaintiffs (and likewise
all produced by other pipe line owners) was, and is,
marketed under contracts with distant distributors,
chiefly in other States. These markets are not free
markets. The plaintiffs necessarily bound themselves
to supply the requirements of the distributors; and the
distributors bound themselves to take their requirements
from the plaintiffs. In order to fulfill their contractual
obligations, the plaintiffs developed the capacity of their
wells and acquired large reserves to provide for their
future needs so that they have no occasion to purchase
gas from other wells. By limiting the plaintiffs' allowable production, the order disables them from perform' The Texoma Natural Gas Company (with an affiliate) has, at a
cost of about $72,000,000, acquired 200,000 acres of leases in the
West Panhandle field known to be capable of producing sweet gas;
drilled about 90 wells; erected a compressor plant; constructed a
pipe line to its Chicago market; and secured marketing contracts for
distribution in other States. Similarly, the Consolidated Gas Utilities
Company (with affiliates) has expnded a smaller sum in acquiring
and developing gas reserves in the East Panhandle field and in constructing pipe lines to, and securing contracts for marketing its gas
in Kansas.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.

671

Opinion of the Court.

55

ing their contracts unless they purchase gas from nonpipe-line wells. Such purchases would at least involve
the cost of the gas and the loss resulting from failure to
make fuller use of their own property.
The plaintiffs do not contest that the State has power
to conserve its natural resources for the public, as well as
to protect private rights,1" or that the Legislature has
power to confer upon the Railroad Commission authority
to make and enforce regulations to that end; or that to
limit production to the aggregate reasonable market demand is, as a conservation measure, clearly proper in the
interest of the public and of the private persons owning'
the right to draw from a common reservoir; or that the
Commission has authority to issue regulations to that
end. The plaintiffs do not deny that the Legislature
may confer upon the Railroad Commission also authority to prorate the total allowable production among all
the individual wells which draw from the common reservoir, provided the proration is in accordance with their
respective .market demands and due consideration is
given to existing reserves. But they insist that House
Bill 266 has not conferred that authority. And as to the
order, the plaintiffs assert that, while restrictive in form,
it is in fact coercive; that its purpose and effect are not
to prevent waste of gas in the common reservoir nor to
prorate the opportunities of production as distinguished
from marketing; that the limitation of the production
of the wells is merely a device to compel the individual
plaintiffs, and other pipe line owners, to purchase gas for
which they have no need; that the real purpose and
" Section 59 of Article 16 of the Constitution of Texas, which article
was proclaimed October. 2, 1917, provides, in part:
"The conservation and development of all the natural resources of
this State .

.

. and the preservation and conservation of such natural

resources of this State are each and all hereby declared public rights
and duties, and the Legislature shall pass all such laws as are appropriate thereto ......

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

effect of the order are to prorate not production, but
distant markets and the facilities for serving them; and
that, thus, the order takes their property without warrant
in law.
First. Prior to the enactment of House Bill 266,'1 the
property rights of the plaintiffs were substantially those
conferred by the common law of the State. Under it,
the owner of land has title to oil and gas in place and,
likewise, to the oil and gas which migrate to formations
under his land through drainage from other lands.1 5
Under that rule, he may produce all the oil and gas that
will flow out of the well on his land, subject to the exercise by other landowners of the same right of capture
through drilling offsetting wells, so as to get their full
share.'
This common law rule, declared in an unbroken
line of authorities, has been widely applied.'
While a
producer who negligently uses explosives in his operations will be liable if he causes physical damage to his
"House Bill 266 amends Article 6008 of the Revised Civil Statutes,
which is the statute particularly dealing with the production and
use of natural gas. That article was amended by Chap. 26 of Acts
of 1931, Forty-Second Legislature, First Called Session, p. 46. It was
again amended by Chap. 100 of the Acts of 1933, called the "Sour
Gas Law," Forty-Third Legislature, Regular Session, p. 222; also by
Chap. 88 of the Acts of 1933, Forty-Third Legislature, First Called
Session, p. 229, which remained in force until August 1, 1935, when
House Bill 266 became effective.
"See Texas Co. v. Daugherty, 107 Tex. 226, 176 S. W. 717;
Stephens County v. Mid-Kansas Oil & Gas Co., 113 Tex. 160, 254
S. W. 290; Grayburg Oil Co. v. State, 50 S. W. (2d) 355.
" Prairie Oil & Gas Co. v. State, 231 S. W. 1088 (Tex. Comm.
App.); compare Houston & Texas Central R. Co. v. East, 98 Tex.
146, 81 S. W. 279.
" Compare, e. g., Hermann v. Thomas, 143 S. W. 195 (Tex. Civ.
App.); United North & South Oil Co. v. Meredith, 258 S. W. 550
(Tex. Civ. App.), affirmed, 272 S. W. 124 (Tex. Comm. App.);
Hunt v. State, 48 S. W. (2d) 466 (Tex. Civ. App.); Malone v.
Barnett, 87 S. W. (2d) 523 (Tex. Civ. App.). See Brown v. Humble
Oil & Refining Co., 83 S. W. (2d) 935 (Tex. Sup. Ct.).

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

69

Opinion of the Court.

neighbors' gas and oil bearing strata and thus impairs
the productivity thereof,"8 the common law of the State
did not, apparently, afford a remedy against depleting
the common supply by wasteful taking or use of oil or
gas drawn from the wells on one's own property. But
since 1899 the Legislature of the State has prohibited,
or curbed, certain practices in the production of gas and
oil which it recognized as wasteful. 9
Second. The defendants contend that the order assailed
is a regulation duly promulgated for the prevention of
waste, and the protection of correlative rights of owners
in the common pool, and was so applied. It may be
assumed that House Bill 266 should be construed as
authorizing regulations to prevent waste, .and to create
and protect correlative rights of owners in a common
reservoir of gas to their justly proportionate shares
thereof, free of drainage to neighboring lands. It may
be assumed, also, that the statute, so construed, is a valid
exercise of-the State's undoubted power to legislate to
those ends; and that it validly delegates to the Railroad
Commission authority to promulgate regulations therefor.
It is settled that to all administrative regulations purporting to be made under authority legally delegated,
there attaches a presumption of the existence of facts
justifying the specific exercise. Pacific States Box &
Basket Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176, 185. But, obviously,
the proration orders would not be valid if shown to bear
no reasonable relation either to the prevention of waste
or the protection of correlative rights, or if shown to be
IsSee Comanche Duke Oil Co. v. Texas Pacific Coal & Oil Co.,
298 S. W. 554 (Tex. Comm. App.).
1 See Danciger Oil & Refining Co. v. Railroad Commission, 49
S. W. (2d) 837, 840 (Tex. Civ. App.), reversed and dismissed as
moot, 122 Tex. 243; 56 S. W. (2d) 1075 (Tex. Comm. App.);
Brown v. Humble Oil & Refining Co., 83 S. W. (2d) 935, 940, 941
(Tex. Sup. Ct.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

otherwise arbitrary. The plaintiffs have assumed the
heavy burden of overcoming the presumption and of
establishing that the order is an arbitrary taking of their
property. They assert, among other things, that they
have, at all times, conducted their operations prudently
and without waste; that they have, in fact, taken only
a small part of the gas in the ground which they own or
lease; and that there is no present danger that the pipe
line owners will, by continuing to operate as they have
done, cause waste or prejudice either to any public interest, or to a property right of any other person. We think
the plaintiffs have sustained the burden resting upon
them. For their assertions are adequately supported by
the following special findings of the lower court:
1. "The owners of wells connected to pipe lines, including complainants, have always produced their wells
in a prudent and skilful manner and in accordance with
the most approved methods of production, without committing or causing physical waste."
2. "Before House Bill 266 went into effect, grossly
wasteful practices in the production of natural gas in the
Panhandle field were occurring," but "most of this waste
was due to the extravagant production of natural gas
from oil wells and to the production of gas from gas
wells and processing such gas for the extraction of a very
small quantity of natural gasoline therefrom and popping
or wasting to the air the residue gas, which constituted
97% of the fuel value of the gas in its original state.
. . . No evidence was offered-indeed, it was not even
seriously claimed-that anything complainant had done
or contemplated doing has, in the slightest degree, contributed or will contribute to that waste."
3. Even if the effect of the Texas legislation be to halt
production by other well owners, "the production from
their own wells by complainant and other pipe lines of
the quantity of gas required from time to time to fulfill

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

71

Opinion of the Court.

their marketing contracts and requirements will cause
no coning or channeling of water, no trapping off of
recoverable oil or gas, no underground waste of oil, gas
or reservoir energy or reduction of the total quantity of
recoverable gas from the field, even though the other
wells in the sweet gas area of the West Panhandle field
be produced at a much lower rate or be not produced."
4. Large and wasteful production of gas in connection
with production of oil in the Panhandle field, and, more
recently, in connection with the operations of plants
"stripping" the gas of its natural gasoline content, "has
resulted in the migration of tremendous quantities of
natural gas from the southwestern side of the field to the
northeastern side of the field. Many of these areas of
low pressure are situated in the sour gas producing area,
with the result that tremendous quantities of sweet gas
have moved out from the sweet gas area into the sour gas
area," and have thus become unfit for use as fuel for lighting and heating purposes. Drainage away from the areas
of complainants' hqldings is found to have been intensified by disproportionate production of gas from gas
wells not connected to pipe lines. In the East Panhandle
field "the leases on which the wells connected to pipe
lines are located have produced an average-[of] 8,116,000 cubic feet of gas per acre, and those on which the
wells connected to stripping plants are located have produced an average of 16,662,000 cubic feet per acre." In
the West Panhandle field, production at the time of trial
of this case had aggregated 4,427,642,131,000 cubic feet.
"Of this total the pipe lines, with an ownership of 56%
of the total reserves, have produced only 529,545,454,000
cubic feet, while the owners of the other 44% have produced 3,898,096,776,000 cubic feet. Complainant, with
an ownership of approximately 20% of the total reserves,
had produced only 98,808,409,000 cubic feet, or 2.25%
of the total withdrawals from the West Panhandle field."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The average rock pressure of the wells not connected to
pipe lines is materially lower than that of complainants"
and other pipe line companies' wells. Hence, in the West
Panhandle field, "by reason of these differentials in pressure between the wells connected to pipe lines and those
not connected, the migration or drainage as a whole is
from the wells connected to pipe lines, including those
connected to complainant's pipe lines, to the wells not
connected to pipe lines." Likewise, "all along the northeast slope of the structure in the East Panhandle field
there is an extremely low pressure area, where tremendous quantities of gas have been produced in connection
with the operation of oil wells and wells connected to
stripping plants. The general drainage in the East Panhandle field is from the areas of high pressure toward and
to these low pressure areas. The majority of the wells not
connected to pipe lines are situated in these low pressure
areas, or between these low pressure areas and the high
pressure areas to the south and west thereof, in which
areas of higher pressure the wells connected to the pipe
lines are situated. . . . Very large quantities of gas have
migrated from the reserves of the pipe lines, including
the reserves of complainants, to -he low pressure areas in
and around the oil fields on the northeast slope of the
reservoir and to the areas on which most of the 391 wells
belonging to others than the pipe lines in the West Panhandle field are situated." Further, past losses do not
complete the story. "Without regard to the rate of
withdrawal in the existing areas of low pressure, the migration of gas from the reserves of the pipe lines to those
areas of low pressure will continue over a long period of
time."
In the light of these findings the lower court concluded
that the order was not intended to prevent waste attributable to plaintiffs; and that it was not intended to adjust correlative rights in the common reservoir for the

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

73

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of averting unjust drainage from the reserves of
those wells lacking pipe line connections. On the other
hand, the court concluded that the proration ordered,
with its drastic limitation of output from wells now connected to pipe lines, will obviously not protect those
wells against undue drainage to other parts of the field,
but will deprive their owners of the protection which
fuller production would offer. These findings are adequately supported by the evidence.
On the other hand, the assertion of the defendants that
the order will, by requiring a uniform and rateable system of production by all the wells, result in the ultimaterecovery of a larger amount of gas than would otherwise
be produced; and, likewise, the assertion that the plaintiffs, by their present production, are depriving, or
threaten to deprive, non-pipe-line owners of their opportunity to share rateably in the gas in the common reservoir, are not sustained. By the assignment of errors in
this Court, defendants challenged the correctness of
many of the findings. But we are of opinion that, so
far as here material, all their contentions, and also the
findings of the Railroad Commission in its order of December 10, prophesying "waste" if the proration ordered
is not carried out, are unfounded.
Third. The defendants contend, apparently, that
House Bill 266 should be construed as authorizing the
Commission to reduce the production of the plaintiffs
and of other pipe line owners, even if the sole purpose of
doing so is to furnish a market for the sweet gas of those
wells now without pipe line connections. On the other
hand, the plaintiffs insist that House Bill 266 should be
construed as authorizing the proration of production only
in connection with, and as part of, waste prevention; and
that since their operations do not involve, or threaten
waste, the order was without statutory authority. That
contention the lower court sustained. It did so, on the

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

ground that to authorize the restriction of non-wasteful
production by the pipe line well owners solely for the
purpose of compelling them to furnish other wells with
a market, would be a change of the common law of Texas
so radical that, if the Legislature had so intended, it
would have expressed that intention in language more
explicit than any used in the Act. Moreover, the court
pointed out that, under the established rule of construction, the interpretation urged by defendants should be
avoiddi because the statute so construed would be of
doubtful validity.2
We are alwkys reluctant to pass upon a seriously controverted question of the meaning of a state statute, because our decision, although disposing of the particular
case, cannot settle the issue of the proper construction of
the statute.2 No court of the State has construed the
Act. The defendants might, perhaps, have secured its
construction by the state court. For the amendment of
§ 266 of the Judicial Code made in 1913, provides that
upon the institution of an appropriate suit in a state
courts a stay may be had of the proceedings in the federal court to await adjudication by the state court.u
But no suit in a state court was instituted by the defendants-to that end. When not instructed by some decision of a state court, we are disposed, in exercising
appellate jurisdiction, to accept the construction given
by the lower federal court to a statute of the State, particularly when that court is composed, as in this in"Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 211 U. S. 407, 422;

United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 408.
Cdmpare Pujiman Co. v. Knott, 235 U. S. 23, 27; Lee v. Bickell,
292 t.:S. 415, 425; Pox v. Standard' Oil Co. of New Jersey, 294

U. S. 87, 97..
" Act of March 4, 1913, c. 160, 37 Stat., p. 1013.- Compare Welch
Pogue, "State Determination of State Law and the Judicial Code,"
41 Harv. L. Rev. 623, 626, et seq.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

75

Opinion of the Court.

stance, wholly of citizens of the State, familiar with the
history of the statute, the local conditions to which it
applies, and the character of the State's laws.23 But,
being under duty to make an independent study of the
question, we have done so. 2 '

That study leaves us in

grave doubt whether the lower court has correctly interpreted. the intention of the lawmakers." On the other
hand, we are clearly of opinion that if the Act were construed as the defendants contend it should be, and as
the Commission has applied it, it would violate the Federal Constitution. As a general rule it is no less true
with reference to State than to Federal legislation that
this Court will not decide an issue of constitutionality if
the case may justly and reasonably be decided upon a
Compare Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del Poz6 y Marcos, 236 U. S.
635, 657; Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, Inc., 275 U. S. 164, 169.
See Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, 647; Louisiana
Public Service Comm'n v. Morgan's Louisiana & Texas Railroad &
Steamship Co., 264 U. S. 393, 397; Wabash Valley Electric Co. v.
Young, 287 U. S. 488, 497; Marion v. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262, 271.
This Court has consistently accorded great deference to the construction of territorial legislation adopted by the local courts, whether
the prevailing system was the common or the civil law, and this
though in such cases this Court'possesses authority to make a definitive construction which it lacks in the case of the legislation of a
State. See Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, 679; Kealoha v. Castle,
210 U. S.149, 153; Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578, 579;
Diaz v. Gonzalez, 261 U. S. 102, 105, 106; compare Reynolds v.
FewelI, 236 U. S.58, 67.
' See St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Middlekamp, 256 U. S.
226, 230; Bratton v. Chandler, 260 U. S. 110, 114; South Utah
Mines & Smelters v. Beaver County, 262 U. S. 325, 331; Corporation
Commission v. Lowe, 281 U. S.431, 438; Fox v. Standard Oil Co. of
New Jersey, 294 U. S. 87, 95, 96. Compare Philippine Sugar Estates
Development Co. v. PhilippineIslands, 247 U. S. 385, 390; Yu Cong
Eng v. Trinidad, 271 U. S.500, 522, 523.
' Compare Van Dyke v. Geary, 244 U. S.39, 46; Palmetto-Fire
Insurance Co. v. Conn, 272 U. S.295, 305; Lee v. Bickell, 292 U. S.
415, 424; Fox v. Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, 294 U. S.87, 96.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

construction of the statute under which the act is clearly
constitutional. Compare Bratton v. Chandler, 260 U. S.
110, 114; South Utah Mines & Smelters v. Beaver
County, 262 U. S. 325, 331; Hopkins v. Southern California Telephone Co., 275 U. S. 393, 403. But where
one party's case depends upon a construction of a state
statute under which it plainly must be held to violate
the Federal Constitution, and where the proper construction of the statute is a matter of grave doubt, this
Court will rest its decision on the Constitution, and will
not undertake to decide the question of construction as
to which it lacks the power to give a definitive answer.
Compare Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196, 204; Michigan Public Utilities
Comm'n v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570, 578; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S.378, 396. We, therefore, accept, for
the purposes of our decision, the defendants' construction; and pass to the discussion of constitutional questions.
Fourth. Either production greater than the demand
or use for an inferior purpose would necessarily involve
overground waste of gas. The manner, place, or extent
of production might lead to underground waste. We assume that the prohibition of any wasteful conduct,
whether primarily in behalf of other owners of gas in
the common reservoir, or because of the public interests
involved, is consistent with the Constitution of Texas
and that of the United States, and that to prevent waste
production may be prorated. " We assume, also, that the
State may constitutionally prorate production in order to
r Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana (No. 1), 177 U. S. 190; Lindsley v.

Noturd1 Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; West v. Kansas Natural
Gas .Co., 221 U. S. 229; Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300;
Bandini Petroleum Co. v. Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8; Champlin
'Refining Co. v. CorporationCommission, 286 U. S.210; Sterling v.
Constantin, 287 U. S. 378.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

77

Opinion of the Court.

prevent undue drainage of gas from the reserves of well
owners lacking pipe line connections.
If proration were
lawfully applied for any such purposes, the fact that
thereby other private persons would incidentally and
gratuitously obtain important benefits would present no
constitutional obstacle. And the fact that plaintiffs' gas
is to be sold in interstate commerce would not preclude
such exercise of the State's power. Compare Champlin
Refining Co. v. Corporation Commission,. 286 U. S. 210,
235.
But the sole purpose of the limitation which the order
imposes upon the plaintiffs' production is to compel those
who may legally produce, because they have market outlets for permitted uses, to purchase gas frm potential
producers whom the statute prohibits from producing
because they lack such a market for their possible product. Plaintiffs' operations are neither causing nor
threatening any overground or underground waste.
Every well owner in the field is free to produce the gas,
provided he does not do so wastefully. He is legally and,
so far as appears, physically free to provide himself with
a market and with transportation and marketing facilities. There is no basis for a claim that his right, or
opportunity, will be interfered with by a disproportionate taking by any one of those who may legally produce.
The lower court found specifically:
"The terms and provisions of the orders attacked, the
necessary operation and effect of such orders, the history
of the field and other pertinent facts as disclosed by this
record conclusively establish that the purpose of the
Commission underlying the orders was, upon a theory of
protecting correlative rights to coerce complainant and
other [others] similarly situated to buy gas from, and
thus to share their private marketing contracts and commitments and the use of their pipe lines and other facil' Compare cases cited in note 26, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

ities for transmitting their gas to market with, the owners
of wells not now connected to pipe lines, who have not
contributed in money, services, negotiations, skill, forethought or otherwise to the development of such markets
and ihe construction of such pipe lines and other facilities. In short to compel complainants to afford markets
to those having none.
"The necessary operation and bffect of such orders is
to take from complainant and others similarly situated
substantial and valuable interests in their private marketing contracts and commitments and in the use of their
pipe lines and other facilities for transmitting their gas
to their markets, without compensation, and to confer
same upon the owners of the approximately 180 sweet
gas wells in the field not connected to pipe lines."
The use of the pipe line owner's wells and reserves is
curtailed solely for the benefit of other private well
owners. The pipe line owner, a private person, is, in
effect, ordered to pay money to another private well
owner for the, purchase of gas which there is no wish to
buy. 8 Moreover, he is thus prevented from protecting
himself, to~the extent that he is able to market his gas,
against the losses which the court below finds are occurring and will continue to occur due to drainage from the
high pressure areas, wherein plaintiffs' wells are located,
to the existing low pressure areas, in which are located
the majority of the wells not connected to pipe lines.
There is here no taking for the public benefit; nor is payment of compensation provided. Plaintiffs' pipe lines
are private property. So far as appears, they are constructed on private lands. There is no suggestion that
Plaintiffs claim that they will be obliged to incur further expense
in the construction of gathering lines to connect their pipe lines with
tlhe wells of others. There is no finding of willingness on the part of
non-pipe line well owners to assume or share such expense.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
55

79

Opinion of the Court.

any of them is a common carrier of gas. The purpose of
the owners in constructing the pipe lines was for the
transport of gas only from their own leases, and such has
been their consistent policy. Unlike the property involved in The Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564, the pipe
lines are not used in connection with the operation of any
public utility in Texas."9
The purpose of this order is the same as that which
the Legislature sought to achieve by the "Common Purchaser Act," of August 12, 1931, held unconstitutional in
Texoma Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 59 F.
(2d) 750. The effect upon the property of the pipe line
owners of the two statutes and the orders issued thereunder is, likewise, the same. There is a difference in the
means employed; but the difference is not of legal significance. The 1931 Act attempted to compel the purchase by frankly commanding it, under sanctions criminal
and civil. The 1935 Act operates by indirection. Its
command is no less compelling; its penalties not significantly different. The order disables the plaintiffs
from performing their contracts except by means of purchases. Resort to those means iecessarily results in
depriving the plaintiffs of property. Under each statute,
if obeyed, the State takes from the pipe line owner the
money with which the purchase is made, the money lost
through curtailed use of properties developed at large
expense, the money lost because of the drainage away.
from his land of the gas which he is forbidden to produce
for himself, but must buy from tlose towards whose lands
it migrates.
Our law reports present no more glaring instance of
the taking of one man's property and giving it to another.
Compare Producers TransportationCo. v. Railroad Commission,
251 U. S. 228, 230, 231; Michign Public Utilities Cqmm'n v. Duke,
266 U. S. 570, 577, 578; Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 563.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

In Missouri Pacific Ry Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403;
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 238 U. S. 340;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Cahill, 253 U. S. 71; Delaware,
L. & W. R. Co. v. Morristown, 276 U. S.182; and Chicago,
.St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Holmberg, 282 U. S. 162,
expenditures directed to be made for the benefit of a
private person were held invalid, although the party
ordered to pay was a common carrier. In Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, and Cole v. La Grange, 113
U. S. 1, the payments ordered for the benefit of a private
person were declared invalid, although the money was to
be raised by general taxation. In Myles Salt Co. v.
Board pf Commissioners, 239 U. S.478, the exaction was
held unlawful, though imposed under the guise of an
assessment for alleged betterments. Compare Georgia
Railway & Electric Co. v. Decatur, 295 U. S. 165. And
this Court has many times warned that one person's
property may not be taken for the benefit of another
private person without a justifying public purpose, even
though compensation be paid. See Hairston v. Danville
& Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S.598, 605, 606; Rindge Co.
v. County of Los Angeles, 262 U. S. 700, 705. Compare
Cincinnativ. Vester, 281 U. S. 439, 446, 449.
Fifth. The defendants contend that tlie situation in
the Panhandle field presented a conflict of private interests so serious as to become a matter of public concern;
and that the Legislature has power to adopt measures to.
prevent the harmful discord. They insist, moreover, that
the plaintiffs, having invoked the legislative action to
stop the wasteful and disproportionate drawing of sweet
gas by others-La prohibition of which they are now reaping the benefits-may not deny the legislative power to
"See Chicago .& Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U.. S. 416,
.421, 422.

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO., 81
55

Opinion of the Court.

authorize the incidental limitations of its own production; since the Legislature would not have prohibited thewaste, or inferior uses of the gas, without providing for
its purchase by the pipe line companies. Whether the
latter assertion is true in fact, we do not know. But
it is clear that there is no basis in law for the arguament,
since there is no claim that plaintiffs ever consented to
inserting any such provision in the Act. Indeed, they
insist, as a matter of construction, that the Legislature
has not done so. And, House Bill 266 is so much more
drastic a statute than the restrictions upon inferior uses
of gas which were apparently the object of plaintiffs'
efforts before the Legislature, that in their present situation plaintiffs cannot fairly be said to be receiving the
benefits and evading the burdens of a measure which they
initiated. Moreover, plaintiffs do not assert rights under
the statute which they assail. They have not taken, and'
are not obliged to take, any affirmative steps thereunder
to obtain whatever benefits may accrue to them because
of the restrictions imposed on production for inferior uses.
Compare Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415, 421; Wall v.
Parrot Silver & Copper Co., 244 U. S. 407, 411; Booth
Fisheries Co. v. Industrial Commission, 271 U. S. 208,
211. Those benefits result incidentally from the enactment of other provisions of the Act, the constitutionality
of which is not questioned, and which seem clearly separable from the sections hefe challenged. Compare
Hurley v. Commission of Fisheries, 257 U. S. 223;
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 278 U. S.
300, 308."'
Affirmed,
Cases are collected in Notes, 34 Col. L. Rev. 1495; 48 Harv. L.
Rev. 988.

130607°-37-06

