OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the United States.

300 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 600. Argued March 11, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.
1. A Resolution of the Senate, reciting that the Senate desired facts
to aid it in enacting remedial legislation and in deciding contests
involving senatorial elections, authorized a committee to investigate
the campaign expenditures of the various candidates for the
United States Senate, the names of the persons subscribing, the
amount contributed, the method of expenditure, and all facts in
relation thereto, with power to call witnesses. A person who had
attempted to file in a primary election of candidates for the office
of United States Senator, but whose application had been rejected
by the State Supreme Court as too late, was called before the
committee, and being sworn testified that he had received no
financial support, or assurance of it, for his campaign. Held:
(1) That the inquiry was within the competency of Congress
and the committee. P. 573.
(2) That within the meaning of the perjury statute (Criminal
Code, § 125) it was a case in which a law of the United States
(2 U. S. C. 191) authorized the oath to be administered. Id.
(3) That the testimony was material to the inquiry. Id.
2. A witness who commits wilful perjury in violation of § 125 of the
federal Criminal Code cannot purge himself of the offence by appearing at a later stage of the inquiry and recanting the false
testimony. P. 573.
86 F. (2d) 379, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 647, to review a judgment reversing

a conviction for perjury in an inquiry by a committee of
the Senate.
Mr. CharlesE. Wyzanski, Jr., with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Mr. William W. Barronwere on the brief, for the United
States.
The perjury statute does not create an exception or
immunity for a witness who recants false testimony

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
564

Argument for Respondent.

which he has deliberately given, and which he has allowed
to stand until other witnesses have exposed his falsehoods.
Moreover, it would be against sound public policy to read
such an exception into the statute. An insistence upon
the truth at every stage of a lawful inquiry is necessary
not merely to protect whatever substantive interests may
be at stake, but also to insure expeditious procedure in
the tribunal conducting the inquiry. There is no likelihood that the grant of an immunity such as is claimed
on behalf of the respondent will lead a witness who has
deliberately lied to tell the truth later. Indeed such grant
is more likely to tempt a knave to tell a falsehood in the
first place and wait to see if he is detected.
On the doctrine of avoidance of perjury by subsequent
recantation there is no decision or dictum in this Court.
The English law does not recognize this doctrine in cases
where the original false statement was deliberate and unequivocal. Regina v. Holl, 45 L. T. Rep. 69 (Q. B. D.,
1881); Regina v. Philpotts, 5 Cox Cr. Cas. 363 (1851).
The prevailing view in the American state courts does not
supply the doctrine unless the original falsehood was due
to ambiguity, inadvertence, or accidental error. And no
case here or abroad regards perjury as undone where not
only the original falsehood was clear and deliberate, but
also where the retraction did not come until after the
witness had left the stand and other witnesses had exposed
him. Masaichi Ono v. Carr, 56 F. (2d) 772.
Mr. William E. Shuman for respondent.
Perjury under the Criminal Code is merely a statutory
adoption of the common lw offense.
When Congress adopts a common law offense, the common law interpretation attends it.
The whole of the evidence of a witness is to be taken
together and if the testimony be ultimately true, there is
no perjury. King v. Jones, 1 Peakes Rep. 37.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

300 U. S.

A corrected misstatement forms no part of the evidence
after the correction is made. It is no longer the assertion
of a fact.
Even if the testimony of the witness was intentionally
false, yet if he correct it while the matter is still pending,
he is not guilty of perjury. The law encourages the correction. People v. Gillette, 126 App. Div. 665; People v.
Brill, 165 N. Y. S. e5; Brannan v. State, 94 Fla. 565;
Henry v. Hamilton, 7 Blackf. (Ind.) 506 (Nov. Term,
1845); Commonwealth v. Irvine, 14 Pa. Dist. & Co. Rep.
275; King v. Carr, 1 Siderfin's Rep. 418; King v. Jones,
1 Peakes Rep. 37; Bishop, Crim. L., 9th ed., § 1044a.
If a witness dare not correct either inadvertent or intentional misstatements without running the risk of punishment, the administration of justice will be greatly
hindered.
A committee of Congress can have no general powers
to probe the affairs of the citizen. Sinclair v. United
States, 279 U. S. 263; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S.
168; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.
Every incident referred to in the evidence pertained
to the primary election to be held in Nebraska in 1.930.
It is settled that Congress has no power to lgislate for
the purpose of regulating primary elections. Newberry
v. United States, 256 U. S. 231.
The record shows that the application of respondent
was not filed with the Secretary of State of Nebraska
within the time required by law, and that the Supreme
Court of the State ordered that his name be omitted from
the list of candidates on the primary election ballot. At
,most it was an abortive effort of respondent to become a
candidate. There could, therefore, 'never be a contest
involving the right to a seat in the United States Senate
because, mo1e than two months prior to the time that
respondent was called as a witness before this sub-committee, the Nebraska court had ordered his name omitted

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
564

Argument for Respondent.

from the ballot; and the primary election, without the
name of respondent upon the ballot, had been held forty
days before respondent gave the testimony complained of
in the indictment.
The power to take testimony to aid the Senate in determining a contest involving the right to a seat in the
United States Senate applies not to a remotely anticipated contest, and particularly in a case where the inquiry pertains solely to one who was not even permitted
to be a candidate before the primary election, but applies
to a contest then existing. Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168.
The Senate Resolution only authorized the Committee
to investigate "the campaign expenditures of the various
candidates for the United States Senate." The respondent never became a candidate for the United States Senate. At most he transmitted his request that he be permitted to become a candidate, and on July 18, 1930, the
Supreme Court of Nebraska denied the request.
Not only was the respondent not a candidate, but the
evidence discloses no incident that could in any way be
said to be a part of any campaign.
The evidence does not contain a word to indicate that
either Senator George W. Norris or W. M. Stebbins, who
were the only candidates for nomination at this primary
election, had anything whatsoever to do with the events
shown in the record, or with the funds paid to respondent. The indictment was therefore based upon inquiries
that in no wise pertained to a candidate and were therefore wholly immaterial.
Furthermore, there was no campaign nor any part of
a campaign by respondent. So far as respondent was
concerned, any candidacy by him, or any campaign, were
non-existing things. To convict one of perjury the evidence "must be strong and clear." Phair v. United
States, 60 F. (2d) 953. Not having any campaign, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

respondent's answer to the questions were legally truthful and he therefore cannot be held for perjury. United
States v. Slutzki, 79 F. (2d) 504.
To make out a case of perjury, "the Government must
show the false testimony was relevant to a material issue
in a controversy." Morris v. United States, 261 Fed. 175;
United States v. Rhodes.218 Fed. 518.
But the evidence of the Government in the trial of
this case indicated nothing relevant or material to any
question in which the United States Senate could properly be interested.
To constitute perjury it is essential that the oath be
taken in a "case in which a law of the United States
authorizes an oath to be administered." The charge of
crime must have clear legislative basis.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The recoid in this case presents an important question
of federal criminal law which has not been settled by our
decisions. Does retraction neutralize false testimony previously given and exculpate the witness of perjury?'
April 10, 1930, the United States Senate, by resolution,
empowered the Vice-President to'appoint a special committee to investigate campaign expenditures of candidates
for the Senate, the committee to sit at such times and
places as it should deem proper, to require attendance of
witnesses and"'production of books and papers, and to act
by any subcommittee. Failure to obey process of the
committee or refusal to answer questions pertinent to the
investigation was to be punished according to law. The
'Compare Loubriel v. United States, 9 F. (2d) 807, 808; Ex parte
Chin Chan On, 32 F. (2d) 828; Ex parte Keizo Shibata, 35 F. (2d)
636; Johnsen v. United States, 41 F. (2d) 44, 46; Masaichi Ono v.
Carr,56 F. (2d) 772; Seymour v. United States, 77 F. (2d) 577, 582.

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
564

Opinion of the Court.

resolution recited that the Senate desired facts to aid it
in enacting remedial legislation and in deciding contests
involving senatorial elections.2 The committee so appointed authorized Senator Nye, the Chairman, to act as
a subcommittee and to, name a subcommittee of one or
more members. Such a subcommittee, consisting of Senators Nye and Dale, met September 22, 1930, at Lincoln,
Nebraska. The Nebraska primary election had been held
on August 12, 1930; the general election at which the
names of senatorial candidates were to appear on the ballots was to be held the following November. Senator
George W. Norris of McCook, Nebraska, had filed for the
Republican primaries on January 1, 1930, and W. M. Stebbins had, on November 12, 1929, filed his acceptance of
Republican nominating petitions in his behalf. The respondent had attempted to file for the same primaries on
July 5, 1930, but the Supreme Court of the State had ruled
on July 18th that his application was not filed within the
time prescribed by law and had ordered the Secretary of
State to omit his name from the list of candidates for
United States Senator to ,e certified to county clerks and
election commissioners. In the light of these facts the
subcommittee summoned the respondent to testify on
September 22, 1930. He was called and sworn to tell the
truth and the whole truth. He narrated something of his
personal history and said his original intention was to run
for State Railway Commissioner, but he did not file for
that office because he thought about filing for United
States Senator. He gave the following testimony:
"Q. Now what assurance did you have of financial support and backing?
A. None whatever.
'Senate Resolution No. 215, 71st Cong., 2d Sess., 72 Cong. Rec
6841-6842.
'State ex rel. Smith v. Marsh, 120 Neb. 287, 289; 232 N. W. 99.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Q. In your campaign?
A. None whatever.
Q. Did you get any assurance from anybody that they
would help you-Republican, Democrat, independents, or
anybody say they would help to finance your campaign?
A. No, sir.
Q. Did you receive any money from anybody in 1he
campaign?
A. I did not."
After the conclusion of his testimony the subcommittee
adjourned until the following day, when several witnesses
were examined, amongst whom was one Johnson. The
respondent was present and heard Johnson testify. After
consulting his counsel he asked and was granted permission to return to the stand. He then admitted the receipt from Johnson of $50 to be used for his filing fee and
a $500 government bond, and stated that he had cashed
the bond through his brother at North Platte.
June 23, 1931, the grand jury for the District of Nebraska indicted the respondent for perjury under § 125
of the Criminal Code.4 On his trial the government
proved the facts as above outlined and called Johnson as
a witness who testified that, pursuant to a plan devised by
himself and others, he had approached the respondent
on June 30th and requested him not to file as a candidate
"Whoever, having taken an oath before a competent tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of the United States authorizes an oath to be administered, that he will testify, declare, depose,
or certify truly, or that any written testimony, declaration, deposition, or certificate by him subscribed, is true, shall willfully and contrary to such oath state or subscribe any material matter which he
does not believe to be true, is guilty of perjury, and shall be fined not
more than $2,000 and imprisoned not more than five years." R. S.
§ 5392; 18 U. S,C, § 231.

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
564

Opinion of the Court.

for Railway Commissioner but to file for United States
Senator telling him that if he were willing to do this the
Republican Party would support him and $50 would
at once be paid him for his filing fee and $500, the estimated amount of his campaign expenses, would also be
paid to him. He swore that, on July 2nd, he gave the
respondent $50 and, on the next day, handed him a $500
bond.
/
The respondent took the witness stand and admitted
that he "knew at the time of testifying [before the Senate
Committee] that he had received $500 and $50 and what
he was saying was not true."
In charging the jury the judge stated that the respondent could not be convicted if he testified carelessly,
negligently or hastily but the jury must find that his
testimony was intentionally untrue and that he did not
believe it true when he gave it. And, respecting the retraction of his former testimony, the judge stated that
the jury might consider the retraction along with the
other evidence "on the question of whether or not considering what the defendant testified on the day prior
and his act of testifying again the following day and what
he said in his testimony, the defendant wilfully, that is,
intentionally testified falsely in his testimony on the day
before in the matters charged against him."
The respondent requested the following instructions:
"The Jury are instructed that even if you find that the
defendant in this case made false answers to the questions
which were put to him at the hearing before the Senate
Committee in question, and if you also find that while
this hearing was yet continuing and while the matter was
yet pending before the Senate Committee, the defendant
corrected any erroneous or false statements that were
made, if any, then you will find the defendant not guilty."
"The Jury are instructed that if you find the defendant,
in the latter portion of his examination before the Senate

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Committee, corrected statements that may have been incorrect or even intentionally false, made prior to the correction of the defendant, then you will find the defendant
not guilty."
These were refused and an exception granted. The jury
rendered a verdict of guilty, sentence was imposed, and
the respondent appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which reversed the judgment,' holding that the trial court
erred in refusing to submit to the jury the question
whether the respondent had fully and fairly retracted
and corrected his original false statements. In the course
of its opinion the court stated the following would have
been a proper charge, and failure to give a charge of such
tenor was reversible error:
"The jury are charged that the law encourages the correction of erroneous and. even intentionally false statements made by a witness upon a trial or hearing, and so,
if you shall find and believe from the evidence that defendant made false answers to the questions or any of
them which were put to him at the hearing before the
Senate Subcommittee (which questions are set out in
the indictment and which questions the court has already in this charge called specifically to your attention),
yet that defendant, while the hearing was continuing and
unfinished again took the witness stand and then and
there fully corrected all erroneous or false statements, if
any, which had theretofore been made by him in answer
to said questions, you should find the defendant not
guilty."
The respondent insists that reversal of his conviction
was right because (1) Congress exceeded its power in
adopting Resolution No. 215, since it cannot legislate for
the purpose of regulating primary elections; (2) perjury
can only be committed if an oath be taken in a case
wherein a law of the United States authorizes an oath
86 F. (2d) 379.

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
564

Opinion of the Court.

to be administered, and the committee hearing was not
such a case; (3) the false testimony concerned an immaterial matter, and (4) the whole of a witness's evidence
must be taken together and, if his testimony be ultimately
true, his indictment for perjury cannot be predicated
thereon.
Little need be said with respect to the first three propositions. That it is within the constitutional province of
Congress to institute investigations and to compel evidence with a view to possible exercise of its legislative
function ' or possible discharge of its duty to determine
the validity of the election of its members I is settled.
R. S. § 101,8 is a law of the United States authorizing any
member of either house of Congress to administer oaths
to witnesses in any matter pending in either house of
Congress or any committee thereof. The materiality of
the respondent's false answers is clear in view of the scope
of the inquiry. The resolution authorized the committee
"to investigate the campaign expenditures of the various
candidates for the United States Senate, the names of
the persons . . . subscribing, the amount contributed,
the method of expenditure, and all facts in relation
thereto . . ."
We come to the substantial question which moved us
to grant the writ of certiorari. We hold the District Judge
was right in refusing to charge as requested by the respondent, and the judgment should not have been reversed on account of his failure so to do. The respondent
admitted he gave intentionally false testimony on September 22d. His recantation on the following day cannot
alter this fact. He would have us hold that so long as
the cause or proceeding in which false testimony is given
is not closed, there remains a locus poenitentiae of which
6

McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.

'Barry
v. United States, 279 U. S. 597.
8
U. S. C. Tit. 2, § 191.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

he was entitled to and did avail himself. The implications
and results of such a doctrine prove its unsoundness. Perjury is an obstruction of justice; its perpetration well may
affect the dearest concerns of the parties before a tribunal.
Deliberate material falsification under oath constitutes
the crime of perjury, and the crime is complete when a
witness's statement has once been made. It is argued that
to allow retraction of perjured testimony promotes the
discovery of the truth and, if made before the proceeding
is concluded, can do no harm to the parties. The argument overlooks the tendency of such a view to encourage
false swearing in the belief that if the falsity be not discovered before the end of the hearing it will have its intended effect, but, if discovered, the witness may purge
himself of crime by resuming his role as witness and substituting the truth for his previous falsehood. It ignores
the fact that the oath administered to the witness calls on
him freely to disclose the truth in the first instance and
not to put the court and the parties to the disadvantage,
hindrance, and delay of ultimately extracting the truth by
cross examination, by extraneous investigation or other
collateral means.
Notwithstanding the fact that the testimony originally
given and allowed then to stand as his final statement on
the subject of inquiry falls clearly within the definition of
§ 125 of the Criminal Code the respondent insists that the
authorities, English and American, demonstrate that his
retraction before the conclusion of the proceedings in
which he testified absolve him and preclude a conviction.
Perjury has been a common law crime since at least the
seventeenth century. Quite generally the conception embodied in the common law definition of perjury has been
embodied in statutes. This is true of § 125. But it cannot be said that there is any respectable body of authority
under the common law or statute in England or in the
United States to support the respondent's position. On

UNITED STATES v. NORRIS.
564

Opinion of* the Court.

the contrary, the cases in which the courts have dealt directly and specifically with the question here for decision
are surprisingly few. The respondent plants himself upon
Roy v. Carr, 1 Siderfin 418, 82 Eng. Rep. 1191, a case decided in 1669, which he claims established the doctrine for
which he contends and has been followed both in England
and in this country. A critical examination of the case
arouses grave doubt that it held, or was intended to hold,
that a retraction of a witness's false testimony negatives
the commission of perjury; and in later cases the English
courts have so intimated and have said that if it stood for
such a proposition it probably would not be followed.'
Several later English decisions squint in the opposite direction, and some of them come near to refute the
respondent's argument with respect to the English law."0
Decisions of state courts of last resort in this country do
not make a much better case for the argument. One state
supreme court seems to have held directly in accordance
with the contention in an appeal from a conviction of perjury." One lower court case is in accord.1" In one state
court of last resort wherein the question arose in a slander
suit, where the defendant was alleged to have improperly
charged a witness with having committed perjury in another proceding, the court answered it favorably to respondent's claim." The Appellate Division of th6 Supreme Court of New York has definitely held with the respondent upon the point, in a case where the witness corrected his false testimony immediately and told the truth
'Edwards v. M'Leay, 2 Vesey & D. 256, 258, 35 Eng. Rep. 316;
Reg. v. Holl, 45 Law Times Rep. 69.
Rex v. Thorogood, 8 Mod. 179, 88 Eng. Rep. 131; Allen v. Westley, Hetley 97, 124 Eng. Rep. 372; Reg. v. Philpotts, 5 Cox's Crim.
Cas. 363; Reg. v. Holl, 45 Law Times Rep. 69.
U Brannen v. State, 94 Fla. 656, 114 So. 429.
Commonwealth v. Irvine, 14 Pa. D. & C. Rep. 275.
"Henry v. Hamilton, 7 Blackf. '(Ind.) 506.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

although, in that case, the conviction was reversed on several grounds any one of which would have been adequate
for reversal.1 4 The Court of Appeals of New York has not
spoken on the subject, and in a later case a lower court has
refused to follow the decision mentioned where the contradictory statement was not part of the same examination
at which the false statement was made. 5
While we should accord respectful consideration to
-decisions of the English and American courts supporting the respondent's view, the research of counsel and
our own examination disclose that there is no substantial body of authority favoring it. As will appear by
scrutiny of the cases cited in Note 1, the lower federal
courts have not dealt with the question often, and while
their expressions may not be entirely consonant, it may
be said that they preponderate against the respondent's,
contention. We are free, therefore, to give such meaning and effect to § 125 of the Criminal Code as in justice
we think ought to be attributed to it. The plain words
of the statute and the public policy which called for its
enactment alike demand we should hold that the telling
of a deliberate lie by a witness completes the crime defined by the law. This is not to say that the correction
of an innocent mistake, or the elaboration of an incomplete answer, may not demonstrate that there was no
wilful intent to swear falsely. We have here no such
case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
,'

People v. Gillette, 126 App. Div. 665; 111 N. Y. S. 133.
People v. Markan, 123 Misc. 689; 206 N. Y. S. 197.

