OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U.S.

FOUNDERS GENERAL CORP. v. HOEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
SECOND

No. 398.

COUftT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.

Argued January 8,. 11, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

1. Where the certificates for corporate shares subscribed for by A
are, by his direction and for his own convenience, issued to B,
his nominee and agent for this purpose, there is a transf.r from
A to B of the "right to receive" the certificates which is taxable
under § 800, Schedule A-3 of the Revenue Act of 1926, although
the arrangements between A and B were such that, as against A,
B could not have compelled issuance of the certificates to himself
and acquires no beneficial interest in the securities and has no
paft in the management or disposal of them. P. 273.
2. A new corporation took over the assets of an old one and agreed
to issue its shares to the old stockholders, but in pursuance of an
irrevocable agreement and power of attorney previously executed
by the stockholders, portions of their new allotments, pro rata,
were issued directly to their attorney for purposes of sale. Held
that there was a taxable transfer, from stockholders to attorney, of the "right to receive" shares, under § 800, Schedule A-3
of the Revenue Act of 1926. Raybestos-Manhattan,Inc. v. United
States, 296 U. S.60. P. 274.
3. A taxpaye4 whose transaction is within a taxing statute cannot
be relieved upon the ground that by adopting another form of dealing he could have achieved his ultimate purpose and avoided the
statute. P. 275.
,84 F. (2d) 976, affirmed.
84 F. (2d) 908, reversed.
83 Ct. Cls. 593; 15 F. Supp. 70, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

299 U. S. 534, 531, to review judgments in

suits for the recovery of moneys alleged to have been
wrongfully exacted as taxes on stock transfers, and as
with No. 331, United States v. A. B. Leach & Co.,
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit;
and No. 330, United States v. Automatic Washer Co., certiorari to
the ,Court of Claims.
*Together

FOUNDERS GENERAL CO. v. HOEY.
268

269

Opinion of the Court.

interest and penalties. In No. 398, the judgment of the
District Court (12 F. Supp. 290) dismissing the complaint
was affirmed by the court below. In No. 331 a recovery
in the District Court was affirmed by the court below.
In No. 330 there was a judgment for the taxpayer in the
Court of Claims.
Mr. Royal E. T. Riggs for petitioner in No. 398.
Mr. J. P. Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and George H. Zeutzius were on the brief,
for respondent in No. 398 and petitioner in Nos. 331 and
330.
Mr. George K. Bowden for respondent in No. 331.
Mr. Jesse I. Miller for respondent in No. 330.
By leave of Court, Mr. Thaddeus G. Benton filed a
brief in No. 330 on behalf of the Middle States Petroleum
Corp., as amicus curiae, urging affirmance of the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These three cases present, in the main, the same question: When, at the instance of one entitled to receive
stock, the certificates therefor are, at his request and for
his convenience, issued by the corporation in the name
of a nominee who receives no beneficial interest therein,
does the transaction involve a transfer by the beneficial
owner requiring a documentary stamp pursuant to § 800,
Schedule A-3, of the Revenue Act of 1926, February 26,
1926, c. 27, Title VIII, 44 Stat. 99, 101?
The taxpayers seek to recover the amounts alleged to
have been wrongfully exacted for the tax, with interest
and penalties. In No. 398, the claim of Founders Gen-

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

eral Corporation for $4,733.33, was denied by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, 12 F. Supp. 290;
84 F. (2d) 976. In No. 331, the claim of A. B. Leach &
Co., Inc., for $16,526.40 was allowed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 84 F. (2d) 908. In
No. 330, the claim of Automatic Washer Company for
$1,593.63 was allowed by the Court of Claims, 83 Ct. Cls.
593; 15 F. Supp. 70. Because of the conflict, we granted
certiorari.
1. In the suit brought by the Founders Corporation,
the complaint, setting forth the following facts, was dismissed: On September 10, 1929, that corporation agreed
with the United States Electric .Power Corporation to
subscribe for 100,000 shares of its common stock, to be
delivered on September 17th, each share to be accompanied by a warrant entitling the holder to subscribe
before January 2, 1940 for an additional share. After
making the agreement and before delivery of the shares,
the Founders Corporation directed that the securities be
issued in the name of Benton & Co., as its nominee.
Benton & Co. was a partnership, organized in 1928 solely
to hold in its name securities belonging to the plaintiff,
and to transfer them at plaintiff's request. For acting
as nominee, the partnership received from plaintiff an
annual fee of $1500. B3P contract between Benton & Co.
and plaintiff, neither the partnership nor any member
thereof could claim any beneficial interest in any securities held by the firm, and plaintiff was appointed agent
of Benton & Co. for the sale and transfer of securities
registered in the partnership name. The stock issued
by the Electric Power Corporation in the name of Benton
& Co. was delivered to the Founders Corporation.
Stamp taxes were confessedly payable on the original
issue, and on the transfer of any securities from Benton
& Co. to the public. The only tax challenged is that
upon the alleged transfer by plaintiff to Benton & Co.

FOUNDERS GENERAL CO. v. HOEY.
268

271

Opinion of the Court.

of the right to receive the stock of the Electric Power
Corporation.
2. In the suit brought by A. B. Leach & Co., Inc., the
declaration upon demurrer to which the recovery was
had, set forth the following facts: That concern, being
engaged in the business of selling securities to the public,
organized five corporations; subscribed for all their stock;
and directed that the stock be issued in the name of Vercouter, an employee. It is conceded that he had no beneficial interest in the stock; had no authority to act except
as directed by A. B. Leach & Co., Inc.; and received the
certificates solely for its benefit and convenience in connection with future sales to the public.
Stamp taxes were confessedly payable on the original
issue, by the five corporations. The only tax challenged
is that upon the alleged transfer by the taxpayer to
Vercouter of the right to receive the stock of the five
corporations.
3. In the suit brought by Automatic Washer Company,
the facts found on which recovery was allowed are these:
An agreement, dated June 22, 1928, between Folds,
Buck & Company, bankers, and Nelson, a stockholder
and officer of the Washer Company's corporate predecessor, provided that Nelson proposed to cause the latter
concern to be reorganized as a Delaware corporation
which should acquire the assets and assume the liabilities
of the old company; that the new company should issue
therefor 140,000 shares of common and 40,000 shares of
preferred; and that the bankers should have the option
pf acquiring for $1,000,000 40,000 shares of the common
and 40,000 shares of the preferred. On -September 17,
1928, the stockholders of the old company agreed with
Nelson to contribute ratably the shares in the new which
were to be sold to the bankers. To this end, each irrevocably appointed Nelson and one Gallagher attorneys
in fact to receive the stock of the new company and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

make sale thereof to the bankers. The new company,
the taxpayer, was organized. On September 27, 1928,
the two companies agreed that the assets should be transferred to the new in consideration of its issuing its common and preferred stock to the stockholders of the old.
The agreement recited the arrangement with the bankers.
and that:
"In order to carry out this plan
. . each of the
stockholders of the Old Company has irrevocably constituted and appointed H. E. Nelson and W. N. Gallagher
his attorneys in fact to receive the respective securities
of the New Company to which such stockholder may be
entitled and to make sale of that portion thereof to be
contributed by such stockholder for the purpose of carrying out said agreement of sale with the Bankers ....
Accordingly, the New Company . . . shall issue such
certificates in such names and for such amounts as shall
be specified in the joint order of the said H. E. Nelson
and W. N. Gallagher, the attorneys in fact . . . and deliver the same to said attorneys in fact . . ."
The 74,538 shares designed to be sold to the bankers
were issued to Nelson.1 Of these, 13,173 were the pro
rata contribution of Nelson.
The taxpayer concedes now that stamp taxes were payable on the original issue of all the stock by the new
company; on the old company's transfer to its stockholders (including Nelson) of its right to receive the new
company's stock; on Nelson's transfer to the bankers;
and on the bankers' sales to the public. The Government concedes now that 'taxes are not payable on Nelson's alleged transfer to himself of his 13,173 shares
which were to go to the banker. The tax challenged is
'In the eventual determination of the pro rata contribution by the
old company's stockholders to the stock to be sold to the bankers, the

amount of preferred to be sold was reduced to 34,538 shares. See 15
F. Supp. 70, 74.

FOUNDERS GENERAL CO. v. HOEY.
268

273

Opinion of the Court.

that on the alleged transfer to Nelson of the right to
receive the 61,365 shares which the other stockholders
contributed.
The applicable part of § 800, Schedule A--Stamp
Taxes, is as follows:
"3. Capital stock, sales or transfers: On all sales, or
agreements to sell, or memoranda of sales or deliveries of,
or transfers of legal title to shares or certificates of stock
or of profits or of interest in property or accumulations
in any corporation, or to rights to subscribe for or to receive such shares or certificates, whether made upon or
shown by the books of the corporation, or by any assignment in blank, or by any delivery, or by any paper or
agreement or memorandum or other evidence of transfer
or sale, whether entitling the holder in any manner to the
benefit of such stock, interest, or rights, or not, on each
$100 of face value or fraction thereof, 2 cents, and where
such shares are without par or face value, the tax shall
be 2 cents on the transfer or sale or agreement to sell
on each share: Provided, That it is not intended by this
title to impose a tax upon an agreement evidencing a
deposit of certificates as collateral security for money
loaned thereon, which certificates are not actually sold,
nor upon the delivery or transfer for such purpose of certificates so deposited, nor upon mere loans of stock nor
upon the return of stock so loaned: Provided further,
That the tax shall not be imposed upon deliveries or
transfers to a broker for sale, nor upon deliveries or
transfers by a broker to a customer for whom and upon
whose order he has purchased same, but such deliveries
or transfers shall be accompanied by a certificate setting
forth the facts . . ."
First. In each case, the person originally entitled to receive the certificate directed, for his own convenience and
purposes, that it be issued in the name of a nominee.
It is argued in the Automatic Washer Company case,
130607*-3--18

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

that the stockholders of the old company never acquired
the "right to receive" that portion of their stock which
was designed for transfer to the bankers; that they did
not become entitled to receive shares in the new company until the contract with it was made on September
27th; that prior thereto, they had irrevocably agreed
that Nelson should receive and sell the shares which
were to go to the bankers; and that, thus, the stockholders of the old company had, prior to the original issue
of the stock in the new, relinquished "the power to command the disposition of the shares" and, therefore, never
exercised that power, held taxable in Raybestos-Manhattan, Inc. v. United States, 296 U. S. 60. But essentially the same argument was made and rejected in the
Raybestos case, page 62. There the transaction was held
to have involved a taxable transfer of rights to stock,
though the old companies had no right to the stock in
the consolidated company prior to the execution of the
contract whereby the issue to their stockholders was directed. "The reach of a taxing act whose purpose is as
obvious as the present is not to be restricted by technical
refinements." Id., 63. Compare Helvering v. Midland
Mutual Life Indurance Co., ante, p. 216. The situation
here is in substance the same as in the Raybestos case.
When the powers of attorney were executed, there was
nothing upon which they could operate. The rights to
receive the stock in the new company, and the transfer
thereof, were effected at one time by the same document.
Second. It is true that in none of the three cases did
the transaction involve the transfer of a beneficial interest. But that fact is, in view of the language of the Act,
without legal significance. The tax is exacted because the
taxpayer transferred "the right to receive" the certificate.
Likewise it is without legal significance that, under power
of attorney from nominee to beneficial owner, the former
may have no part in the management or disposal of the
securities. Nor is it material that in no case did the

FOUNDERS GENERAL CO. v. HOEY.
268

275

Opinion of the Court.

nominee have a right, at least as against the taxpayer, to
compel issuance of the stock to himself. The legal title
to the shares was received by the nominee from the newly
formed corporation; but the authorization rendering his
holding lawful was received from the taxpayer. The
legality of the issuance of the stock in the names of the
nominees rests on the fact that the taxpayers authorized
such issuance and granted their nominees the right to receive the stocks entered in their names. The grant of
that authority is a transfer -of "the right to receive"
within the meaning of the Act; and we are not to look
beyond the Act for further criteria of taxability. See
Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 110.
The statute defines the scope of the tax in terms whose
breadth is emphasized by the careful particularity of its
provisos. Especially indicative of Congressional intention
that nominee transactions generally should be subject to
the tax are the provisos added by the Revenue Act of
1932, June 6, 1932, c. 209, § 723, 47 Stat. 273, and the
Act of June 29, 1936, c. 865, 49 Stat. 2029, which except
certain specifically described transfers to nominees.
Third. It is suggested that in each case the taxpayer
might have attained his ultimate purpose by a form of
transaction which would not have subjected him to the
tax. The suggestion, if true, furnishes no reason for relieving him of tax when, for whatever reason, he chooses
a mode of dealing within the terms of the Act. Compare
United States v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496, 506; Provost v.
United States, 269 U. S. 443, 457, 458. To make the taxability of the transaction depend upon the determination
whether there existed an alternative form which the
statute did not tax would create burden and uncertainty.
"There must be a fixed and indisputable mode of ascertaining a stamp tax." Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152,
159.
In Number 398, judgment _affirmed.
In Number 331, judgment reversed.
In Number 330, judgment reversed.

