608

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

HIGHLAND FARMS DAIRY, INC.,
AGNEW ET AL.

300 U. S.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 573.

Argued March 8, 9, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. The Virginia Milk and Cream Act created a Commission with power
to establish market areas, and to determine, after hearings, the
need for regulation of milk and cream prices within each area and,
if satisfied of the need, to fix prices accordingly. Held that the
objection of unconstitutional delegation of legislative power has
no basis under the Federal Constitution, and has been decided
adversely as to the state Constitution by the highest court of the
State. P. 611.
2. How power shall be distributed by a State among its governmental
organs is commonly, if not always, a question for the State itself.
P. 612.
3. The federal guaranty to the States of a republican form of government, Const., Art. 1V, § 4, is not involved in this case, and, in
any event, is an obligation of Congress, not of the Courts. Id.
4. A judgment by the highest court of a State as to the meaning and
-effect of its own constitution is decisive and controlling. P. 613.
5. The validity of a provision in the above mentioned statute for
the cancellation of the prices established for a market if cancellation is requested by a majority of the producers and distributors
in the area affected, need not be considered, because no exercise
of the power of cancellation has been threatened. P. 613.
6. A holding of invalidity as to this provision for cancellation would
not affect the rest of the statute because of the saving clause.
P. 614.
7. The price-fixing and licensing provisions of the Virginia Milk and
Cream Act do not apply to transactions in interstate commerce,
notwithstanding the broad definition of a "distributor." This view
is confirmed by the administrative practice under it and by its
declaration that operations in interstate tmrncrce shall nut be
deemed to be affected. P. 614.
8. This statute is not invalid for failing to prescribe the standards
to be applied by the Commission in granting licenses or refusing
them. P. 616.

HIGHLAND FARMS DAIRY v. AGNEW.
608

609

Opinion of the Court.

The obvious purpose of the license is to provide the Commission
and the members of the local boards with a record of the distributors and producers subject to the Act, as an aid to supervision and
enforcement. It is not to be inferred that any one was intended
to be excluded because of favor or caprice. An order refusing to
issue a license, or suspending or revoking one, may be reviewed on
appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals.
9. One who is required to take out a license will not be heard to
complain, in advance of application, that there is danger of refusal.
P. 616.
16 F. Supp. 575, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court, of three
judges, denying a permanent injunction and, dismissing
the bill in a suit to restrain enforcement of the Virginia
Milk and Cream Act.
Messrs. Philip Rosenfeld and Lawrence Koenigsberger,
with whom Messrs. Morris Simon and Eugene Young
were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Edwin H. Gibson, Assistant Attorney General of
Virgina, and Mr. John S. Barbour, with whom Mr.
Abram P. Staples, Attorney General, was on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A statute of Virginia, known as the "Milk and Cream
Act," is assailed by the appellants as invalid both under
the Constitution of Virginia and under that of the United
9tates.
The act is chapter 357 of the Laws of 1934. It recites
the existence of demoralizing trade practices in the dairy
industry, threatening to interrupt the supply of pure and
wholesome milk for the inhabitants of the Commonwealth
and producing an economic emergency so acute and destructive as to call for corrective measures. It establishes
130607 -37-

39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. .

a Milk Commission with power to create within the state
natural market areas, and to fix the minimum and maximum prices to be charged for milk and cream therein.
It authorizes the Commission to exact a license from distributors subject to the act, and provides that in the absence of such a license sales shall be unlawful within the
market areas. It imposes taxes or fees for the support
of the Commission and of local milk boards which are
to be created to co6perate with the Commission in making the plan effective. It warns (§ 14) that none of its
provisions "shall apply or be construed, to apply to foreign or interstate commerce, except in so far as the same
may be effective pursuant to the United States Constitution and to the laws of the United States enacted pursuant
thereto." Finally it provides (§ 16) that "if any section,
clause, or sentence or paragraph shall be declared unconstitutional for any reason, the remainder of the act, shall
not be affected thereby." A fuller summary of the statute is given in the opinion of the court below (16 F.
Supp. 575), to which reference is made. Other provisions
will be noted in this opinion later.
The suit is for an injunction to restrain the members
of the Commission from enforcing the statute or the regulations made thereunder. One of the two plaintiffs (Highland Farms Dairy, Incorporated), which will be spoken of
as "Highland," has a creamery for the pasteurizing and
treatment of milk at Washington in the District of Columbia. For that purpose it buys milk from farmers in
Virginia and Maryland. Its entire output of bottled milk
it sells to the other plaintiff, Luther W. High, who has
retail stores in Virginia and elsewhere for the sale of ice
cream, milk and other dairy products. A regulation
adopted by the Commission on March 27, 1936, set up a
market area, described as the Arlington-Alexandria Milk
Market, within which High is engaged in business, Mini-

HIGHLAND FARMS DAIRY v. AGNEW.
608

611

Opinion of the Court.

mum prices prescribed for that area are in excess of the
prices at which Highland had been selling to High and at
which High had sold to the consumers. Each went on
selling at the old prices. Neither made application for a
license. In June, 1936, the Commission gave notice to
High that it would proceed against him for an injunction
if he refused compliance with its orders. No proceedings
against Highland were begun or even threatened, the Commission taking the position that Highland was not subject
to the prohibitions of the statute, its sales and purchases
in Virginia being transactions in interstate commerce. In
spite of this disclaimer, Highland joined with High in
suing to enjoin the enforcement of the Act. A District
Court of three judges, organized in accordance with § 266
of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 380), gave judgment
for the defendants, with a comprehensive opinion to which
little can be added. 16 F. Supp. 575. The case is here
upon appeal. 28 U. S. C. § 380.
The power of a state to fix a minimum price for milk
in order to save producers, and with them the consuming
public, from price cutting so destructive as to endanger
the supply, was affirmed by this court in Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502, and in other cases afterwards. Hegeman Farms Corp. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163; Borden's
Farm Products Co. v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S. 251. Appellants are not asking us to undo what was there done.
They take the ground, however, that the statute of Virginia is open to objections that were inapplicable to the
statute of New York. The present grounds of criticism
will be considered one by one.
1. The statute is not invalid as an unlawful delegation
of legislative power.
The General Assembly of the Commonwealth in setting up the Milk Commission did not charge it with a duty
to prescribe a scale of prices in every portion of the state.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The Commission was to establish market areas, and with
reference to each area was to determine, after a public
hearing, whether there was need within such area that
prices should be regulated. If it was satisfied of the need,
it was to fix a scale accordingly. The argument for the
appellants is that in this there Was a grant of discretionary
power overpassing the limits of lawful delegation.
The Constitution of the United States in the circumtances here exhibited has no voice upon the subject. The
statute challenged as invalid is one adopted by a state.
This removes objections that might be worthy of consideration if we were dealing with an act of Congress. How
power shall be distributed by a state among its governmental organs is commonly, if not always, a question for
the state itself. Nothing in the distribution here attempted supplies the basis for an exception. The statute
is not a denial of a republican form of government. Constitution, Art. IV, § 4. Even if it were, the enforcement
of that guarantee, according to the settled doctrine, is for
Congress, not the courts. Pacific States Telephone Co. v.
Oregon, 223 U. S. 118; Davis v. Hildebrant,241 U. S. 565;
Ohio ex rel. Bryant v. Akron Park District, 281 U. S. 74,
79, 80. Cases such as PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 293
U. S. 388, and Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495, cited by appellants, are quite beside the
point. What was in controversy there was the distribution of power between President and Congress, o'r between
Congress and administrative officers or commissions, a conti'oversy affecting the structure of the national government as established by the provisions of the national constitution.
So far as the objection to delegation is founded on the
Constitution of Virginia, it is answered by a decision of
the highest court of the state. In Reynolds v. Milk Commission, 163 Va. 957; 179 S. E. 507, the Supreme Court
of Appeals passed upon the validity of the statute now in

HIGHLAND FARMS DAIRY v. AGNEW.
608

613

Opinion of the Court.

question. The Commission sued distributors to enjoin
them from selling milk at a price lower than the prescribed minimum, and the injunction was granted against
the defendants' objection that the statute was invalid.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals the judgment was affirmed. To escape the force of that decision the argument is made that the question of unlawful delegation was not considered or decided. But the
contrary is plainly indicated both in the opinion of the
court and in that of its dissenting members. The prevailing opinion summarizes the arguments against the
act, and among them is this (163 Va. at p. 976), that
there is "the delegation to the Commission of the power
to enact legislation which is both prohibitory and penal
in character and which will be operative only in such
areas as the Commission may define." The dissenting
opinion says (p. 980): "The Commission may order milk
to be sold at one price in Staunton, at another in Harrisonburg and may leave Woodstock to shift for itself."
These statements are too clear to leave room for misconstruction. A judgment by the highest court of a state
as to the meaning and effect of its own constitution is
decisive and controlling everywhere.
2. The statute is not invalid in its present application by reason of a provision for the cancellation of the
prices established for a market, if cancellation is requested by a majority of the producers and distributors
1
in the area affected.
The argument is made that the effect of that provision is to vest in unofficial agencies, capriciously selected,
a power of repeal to be exercised at pleasure. The case
'The provision (§ 3 (i)) reads as follows: "The commission shall
withdraw the e;Kercise of its powers from any market upon written
application of a majority of the producers (measured by volume) of
milk produced and a majority of the distributors (measured by volume of milk distributed) in said market acting jointly."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

of Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137, is cited for the
proposition that this cannot be done consistently with
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
Delegation to official agencies is one thing, there being
nothing in the concept of due process to require that a
particular agency shall have a moi)opoly of power; delegation to private interests or unofficial groups with arbitrary capacity to make their will prevail as law may be
something very different. Cf., however, Cusack Co. v.
Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 531. Such is the appellants' argument when its implications are developed.
Without acceptance or rejection of the distinction in
its application to this statute, we think it is enough to
say that the power of cancellation has not been exercised
or even threatened. The controversy in that regard is
abstract and conjectural. Abrams v. Van Schaick, 293
U. S. 188. Moreover, if a provision so subordinate were
at any time to fail, the saving clause in § 16 would cause
the residue to stand.
3. The statute does not lay a burden on interstate
commerce.
Argument to the contrary is built upon the definition
of the word "distributor" contained in § 1. We learn
from that section that distributors include "persons
wherever located or operating, whether within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, who purchase, market, or handle milk for resale as fluid milk in the Commonwealth of Virginia." This definition, we are told,
takes in the plaintiff Highland, who buys milk and sells
it in interstate commerce, and does so with the expectation that upon arrival in Virginia the milk will be resold.
But Highland is not subject to the provisions of the
act, and so the Milk Commission has ruled. No matter what the definition of a distributor may be, sales are
not affected by any restriction as to price unless made

HIGHLAND FARMS DAIRY v. AGNEW.
608

615

Opinion of the Court.

within the boundaries of a designated market area. The
sections quoted in the margin point fairly to that conclusion.2 Highland in Washington may sell to High in
Virginia, and High may buy from Highland, at any price
they please. Not till the milk is resold in Virginia within
a market area will the price minimum apply, and then
only to the price to be charged on the resale. Cf. Wiloil
Corp. v. Pennsylvania, 294 U. S. 169, 175; Sonneborn
Bros. v. Cureton,262 U. S. 506; Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig,
Inc., 294 U. S. 511. If there could be any doubt about
this as a matter of construction, the doubt would be dispelled by the administrative practice and by the warning
of the statute, expressed in § 14, that operations in interstate commerce shall not be deemed to be affected. So
'Sec. 3, subd. j: "The commission, after public hearing and investigation, may fix the prices to be paid producers and/or associations
of producers by distributors in any market or markets, may fix the
minimum and maximum wholesale and retail prices to be charged
for milk in any market, and may also fix different prices for different
grades of milk. In determining the reasonableness of prices to be
paid or charged in any inarket or markets for any grade, quantity,
or class of milk, the commission shall be guided by the cost of production and distribution, including compliance with all sanitary
regulations in force in such market or markets, necessary operation,
processing, storage and delivery charges, the prices of other foods,
and the welfare of the general public."
Sec. 3, subd. k: "The commission may require all distributors in
any market designated by the commission to be licensed by the commission for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act.
The commission may decline to grant a license, or may suspend or
revoke a license already granted upon due notice and after a hearing.
The commission may classify licenses, and may issue licenses to distributors to process or store or sell milk to a particular city or village
or to a particular market or markets within the Commonwealth."
Sec. 1, par. II: "'Market' means any city, town or village of the
Commonwealth, or two or more cities and/or towns and/or villages
and surrounding territory designated by the commission as a natural
marketing area."

616

OC'?OBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

also as to the requirement of a license expressed in § 42
High needs a license to the extent that he sells at retail
to consumers in Virginia. Highland does not need one,
and the Commission is not asking it to apply for one,
because its business as now conducted with persons in
Virginia is interstate exclusively. Clumsy draftsmanship
may have spread a fog about the section when viewed in
isolation or taken from its setting. The fog scatters when
we recall the provisions of § 14 and the administrative
practice. Appellants' fears are visionary.
4. The statute is not invalid for failing to prescribe the
standards to be applied by the Commission in granting
licenses or refusing them.
The obvious purpose of the license is to provide the
Commission and the members of the local boards with a
record of the distributors and producers subject to the act.
Supervision and enforcement are thus likely to be easier.
No inference is permissible that any one was intended to
be excluded because of favor or caprice. Lieberman v.
Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552. Indeed the statute makes
provision (§ 6) that an order refusing to issue a license, or
suspending or. revoking one, may be reviewed on appeal
to the Supreme Court of Appeals. There is sedulous protection against oppression or abuse of power. One who is
required to take out a license will not be heard to complain, in advance of application, that there is danger of
'The section reads as follows: "No distributor in a market in which
the provisions of this act are in effect shall buy milk from producers,
or others, for sale within the Commonwealth, or sell or distribute
milk within the Commonwealth, unless such distributor is duly
licensed under the provisions of this act. It shall be unlawful for a
distributor to buy milk from or sell milk to a distributor who is not
licensed as required by this act. It shall be unlawful for any distributor to deal in, or handle milk if such distributor has reason to believe
it has previously been dealt in, or handled, in violation of the terms
and provisions of this act."

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. CLAWANS.
Syllabus.

refusal. Lehon v. Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53, 56; Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 562. He should apply and see what
happens.
Other arguments against the act are implicit in the arguments already sumimarized and answered. Expansion
of the answer will serve no useful purpose.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREYN-

OLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER do not assent to so much of the opinion as attributes
to the State a power to fix minimum and maximum prices
to be charged in the sale of milk, their views on this question being reflected by what was said on their behalf by
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS in Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S: 502, 539-559. In other respects they concur in the
opinion.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. CLAWANS.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 103.

Argued November 18, 1936. Reargued March 1, 1937.Decided April 5, 1937.

1. The offense of engaging, without a license, in the business of a
dealer in second-band personal property, defined by the Code of
the District of .Columbia, puiishable by a fine of not more than
$300 or imprisonment of not more than 90 days, is to be classed
as a petty offense which, consistently with Art. III, § 2, cl. 3, of
the Constitution, may be tried without a jury. P. 624.
2.. In determining whether an offense Is a petty offense that constitutionally may be tried without a jury, the severity of the
- penalty inflictable, as well as the moral quality of the act and its
relation to common law crimes, should be considered. P. 625.

