UNITED STATES v. GILES.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. GILES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 329.

Argued January 13, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. The rule that criminal statutes must be strictly construed does
not require that the words be given their narrowest meaning or
that the evident intent be disregarded. P. 48.
2. A bank-teller who, for the purpose of concealing a shortage in
his cash, withholds deposit slips which in the ordinary course of
business will go to the bookkeeping department for entry, as a
result whereof the ledger understates the amount of the bank's
liability to the depositors, violates R. S., § 5209, as amended, which
denounces as a misdemeanant "any officer, director, agent, or employee of any Federal reserve bank, or a member bank . . . who
makes any false entry in any book, report, or statement of
such . ..bank, with intent in any case to injure or defraud . .
Pp. 48-49.
To hold the statute broad enough to include deliberate action
from which a false entry by an innocent intermediary necessarily
follows, gives to the words employed their fair meaning and is
in accord with the evident intent of Congress. To hold that it
applies only when the accused personally writes the false entr'
or affirmatively directs another to do so would emasculate the
statute-defeat the very end in view.
84 F. (2d) 943, reversed; D. C. affirmed.

299 U. S. 531, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of conviction for violation of R. S.,
§ 5209.
CERTIORARI,

Assistant Attorney General McMahon, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. William W. Batrn,

and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for th United
States:
Citing, inter alia, Morse v. United States, 174 Fed. 539,
cert. den., 215 U. S. 605; Lewis v. United States, 22 F.
(2d)

760;

Richardson v.

United States, 181 Fed. 1;

McKnight v. United States,- 97 Fed. 208, 213; United

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

States v. Fish, 24 Fed. 585, 593-594. Cf. United States
v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 460, 469; Commonwealth v. White,
123 Mass. 430, 434; Seifert v. State, 160 Ind. 464, 466;
Maxey v. United States, 30 App. D. C. 6, 74-75; Rex v.
DeMarny [1907] 1 K. B. 388; People v. Lewis, 124 Cal.
551; Thornton v. State, 107 Ga. 683.
Mr. Will A. Morriss, with whom Mr. Nat L. Hardy
was on the brief, for respondent.
Citing, inter alia, 12 U. S. C. 592; 18 U. S. C. 550;
United States v. McClarty, 191 Fed. 518, 523; United
States v. Herrig, 204 Fed. 124; United States v. Booker,
98 Fed. 291; Twining v. United States, 141 Fed. 41;
State v. Asal, 79 Mont. 385; United States v. Eqe, 49
Fed. 852, 853.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Section 5209, R. S.,' as amended by Act Sept. 26, 1918,
c. 177, 40 Stat. 967, 972 (U. S. C., Title 12, § 592)
provides:
'Sec.

5209 R. S., Title LXII, National Banks, Ch. 3.

"Every

president, -director, cashier, teller, clerk, or agent of any association,
who embezzles, abstracts, or willfully misapplies any of the moneys,
funds, or credits of the association; or who, without authority from

the directors, issues or puts in circulation any of the notes of the
association; or who, without such authority, issues or puts forth any
certificate of deposit, draws any order or' bill of exchange, makes
any acceptance, assigns any note, bond, draft, bill of exchange, mortgage, judgment, or decree; or who makes any false entry in any
book, report, or statement of the association, with intent, in either
• case, to injure or defraud the association or any other company,
body politic or corporate, or any individual person, or to deceive any
officer of the association, or any agent appointed to examine the
affairs of any such association; and every person who with like
intent aids or abets any officer, clerk, or agent in any violation of
this section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
imprisoned not less than five years nor more than ten."

UNITMD STATES v. GILES.
41

Opinion of the Court.

"Any officer, director, agent, or employee of any Federal reserve bank, or of any member bank .. who
makes any false entry in any book, report, or statement
of such Federal reserve bank or member bank, with intent
in any case to 'injure or defraud such Federal reserve
bank or member bank, or any other company, body politic or corporate, or any individual person, or to deceive
any officer of such Federal reserve bank or member bank,
or the Comptroller of the Currency, or any agent or
examiner appointed to examine the affairs of such Federal reserve bank or member banks, or the Federal Reserve Board . . . shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof in any district court
of the United States shall be fined not more than $5,000
or shall be imprisoned for not more than five years, or
both, in the discretion of the court."
Count three of an indictment in the United States District Court, Western Ditrict of Texas, charged that respondent Giles, while employed as teller by the Commercial National Bank of San Antonio, Texas, a member
of the Federal Reserve National Bank of Dallas, did
"unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully, fraudulently, and feloniously make and cause to be made in a book of the
said The Commercial National Bank of San Antonio,
Texas, known as the Individual Ledger, in the account
designated 'S. A. Public Service Company,' under date
of 'Jul 25 '33' in the column bearing the printed heading
'Balance,' being the fifth entry from the top of the column aforesaid, and directly opposite the machine printed
date thereon 'July 25 33' a certain false entry in the following figures, to wit, '7,874.07,' which said entry so made
as aforesaid, purports to show and does in substance and
effect indicate and declare that The Commercial National Bank of San .Antonio, Texas, was indebted and
liable to the San Antonio Public Service Company in the
amount of Seven Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy-Four

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Dollars and Seven Cents ($7,874.07) on July 25, 1933,
whereas in truth and in fact said indebtedness and liability on said date was a different and much larger
amount."
Count four made a like charge relative to the account
of the National Life and Accident Insurance Company.
He was tried, found guilty, and sentenced under both
counts. The point for our decision is whether the trial
court erred in refusing to direct a verdict of not guilty.
The essential facts are not in dispute.
From the evidence it appearsGiles, once bookkeeper for the Commercial National
Bank, became first paying and receiving teller with custody each day of some $35,000.00 cash. His duty was to
receive deposits and place accompanying slips or tickets
where they would reach the bookkeepers for entry.
Eighteen months prior to the alleged offense, he discovered shortage in his cash but made no report to his
superiors. To cover up the shortage he resorted to the
practice of withholding selected deposit slips for three
or four days before permitting them to reach the bookkeeping department. This caused the ledger to show
false balances. Other shortages occurred; July 25, 1933,
the total stood at $2,650.00.
On that day he accepted deposits with proper tickets
from San Antonio Public Service Company and National
Life and Accident Insurance Company for $1,985.79 and
$663.27 respectively, accompanied by cash and checks.
Together these approximated his shortage. He withheld
both tickets from the place where they should have gone
and secreted them. If placed as usual and as his duty
required, they would have reached the bookkeeper during the day. Entries on the ledger would have shown
the depositors' true balances.
The Bank closed July 29th. The slips never reached
the bookkeeper. The individual ledger accounts at the

UNITED STATES v. GILES.
41

45

Opinion of the Court.

end of the 25th and thereafter understated the liability
of the Bank to the depositors.
The respondent acknowledged his purpose in withholding the deposit tickets was to prevent officers and examiners from discovering his shortage. Some excerpts
from his testimony are in the margin.2 "My actual shortage was $2,650.00 that
had shown up without
my having any responsibility for it. The only way it could be
carried was holding out deposit tickets to offset the shortage in the
cash, and on the 25th of July withholding these two deposits, the
San Antonio Public Service and the National Life & Accident, and
depositing the two tickets that had been held over from the 21st.
"Asked if I selected those two deposit slips that day to withhold
them because they, together, made up the amount of the shortage,
that was the reason I selected those two, because it covered the
amount of the shortage.
"The bank got the money for both of those deposits. I did not
make any false entries with reference to those items. It is true that
all I did was simply put the deposit slips in the cigar box and withheld them for the time being, until I could recover the shortage.
I did not make any report to any bookkeeper. As to how the bookkeeping department received its information on which they keep
their books, the bookkeepers came in three or four times a day and
lots of days oftener, and took the deposit tickets and checks out of
the drawers. The business of the day was represented by the
tickets and checks. I would put those in the drawers; I had a
special drawer for them, divided into sections. As to whether I took
them to the bookkeepers or they came to the drawers whenever they
wanted to and get them-they came and got them whether I was
there or not. I had no control or direction whatever over the bookkeeping department or any bookkeeper. Mr. Crowther had control
and direction over the bookkeepers; really, Mr. Roberts handled
them, but Mr. Crowther was over the bookkeepers. If the entries
were made on any given date showing the balance of any depositors,
etc., I did not have anything whatever to do with making the entries
or causing them to be made. They simply came to the drawers and
got the checks 'anddeposit slips, and from that made up their entries.
These two deposit slips that were withheld and stuck in the cigar
box that day would have gone right on into the books in time if the
bank had not closed. . . . They were simply withheld that way to

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

At the conclusion of the evidence counsel moved for a
directed verdict of not guilty. This was denied. The
jury found guilt under both counts; an appeal, with
many assignments of error, went to the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
That Court declared: "The serious question presented
for decision is whether the law will support a conviction
on an indictment charging that defendant caused the
false entries to be made."
"Of course, in a sense, one who makes a false entry
causes it to be made. If he makes an entry himself or
directs another to make it, an allegation in the indictment that he caused it to be made may be treated as
8urplusage and harmless, but where the defendant has
fiei ther made a false entry nor directed another to do so,
the same allegation is material aid injurious. A charge
that one has caused a false entry to be made is very
much broader than the charge that he made it." "We
consider the allegation of the indictment that defendant
make my cash balance; that was the only way I had of doing
that .... I withheld deposit tickets from time to time in order
that my cash shortage would not be discovered.
"With regard to the two deposits that are directly in question in
this case, one to the National Life & Accident Company and one to
ihe San Antonio Public Service Company, each on the 25th of July,
1933, I withheld those two deposit tickets from the bookkeepers.
Asked if instead of putting them in the drawer with the balance of
the deposit tickets for that day, I put them in a different place
tvhere I knew the bookkeepers would not look for them, yes, sir;
I put them in the cigar box. The bookkeepers had nothing to do
with the cigar box. The bookkeepers would go to the regular place
where the deposit slips were kept to get them. The reason I put
the two deposit tickets in the cigar box was for the sole and only
.purpose of keeping them from the bookkeepers to keep them fr6m
going through, to keep them from going on the account of the
depositors.
"Asked if by putting deposit slips in a place where he would not
.get them and I knew he would not get them, I had that fnuch control

UNITED STATES v. GILES.
41

Opinion of the Court.

did 'cause to be made a certain false entry in a book of
the bank,' charged a degree and classification of the
offense not within the letter or intent of the law." "The
evidence in the record conclusively shows that defendant
neither made the false entries nor did anything that could
be considered as a direction to the bookkeeper to make
them. Without the charge that he caused the entries
to be made he could not have been convicted. It follows
that it was prejudicial error to overrule the motion for
a directed verdict of acquittal."
Dissenting, one judge said:
"This statute plainly intends to punish the falsification of bank records with intent to deceive or defraud.
If false entries are deliberately produced, although
through an ignorantly [sic] innocent agent, the bank emover the bookkeepers, yes, sir, by holding them out, of course, he
would not get them.
"Q. Now I show, you one of the Government's Exhibits, which is
the individual ledger account of the San Antonio Public Service
Company in the right hand column, the 5th line from the top of the
page, an entry under date of July 25th, 1933, under the column head
'new balance' which is the last balance of that account shown for
July 25th, 1933, of $7,874.07; was that the true balance of that
account on that date? A. That was the true balance of everything
that went through to the account. Q. That is right, but was that a
true balance on the account; do the figures, 7,874.07, represent the
liability of the Commercial National Bank to the San Antonio Public
Service Company at the close of business on July 25th, 1933? A. No,
sir; the deposit slip was in my cage of $1,985.79.
"Q. And then this entry of $7,874.07 is not correct, because you
did not let the bookkeepers have the deposit ticket? A. We often
held deposit tickets over. Q. But you withheld it for a purpose,
didn't you? A. Yes, sir. Q. Your intention in withholding it was
so that it would not go on the ledger sheet, wasn't it? A. Yes, sir;
I put it in the cigar box.
"I'did not make any entries or figures of any sort from which the
bookkeepers might have got it off the entries. The only entry I ever
made was in the depositor's pass book. I therefore made no other
entries."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

ployee who concocts the plan and achieves the result is, in
my opinion, guilty. This innocent bookkeeper was the
teller's real though unconscious agent in making the
entries; as truly so as if the false entries had been requested in words." ". . . the present case is not one of
a mere failure to prevent a consequence, but is one of
contriving that consequence and so fathering it as to
make it wholly the contriver's own. The bookkeeper
in making these false entries was doing the will of the
teller, though he did not know it. The. false entries are
in law the acts of the teller who planned them and did
all he needed to do to produce them."
Counsel for the respondent now affirm: "There is no
dispute as to the facts." "The act committed by the defendant was the withholding by him and the failure by him
to turn over to the Bookkeeping Department in the usual
course of the bank's business a deposit slip." He did
not cause any false entry to be made. Personally he
made no such entry; he did not affirmatively direct one.
By withholding the ticket he prevented an entry; he
caused none.
The rule, often announced, that criminal statutes must
be strictly construed does not require that the words of
an enactment be given their narrowest meaning or that
United
the lawmaker's evident intent be disregarded.
States v. Corbett, 215 U. S. 233, 242. Here the purpose
to insure the correctness of bank records by prescribing
punishment for any employee' who, with intent to deceive, etc., deliberately brings about their falsification is
plain enough. The statute denounces as criminal one
who with intent, etc., "makes any false entry." The
word "make" has many meanings, among them "To
cause to exist, appear or occur," Webster's International
Dictionary, 2nd ed. To hold the statute broad enough
to include deliberate'action from which a false entry by

UNITED STATES v. GILES.
41

Opinion of the Court.

an innocent intermediary necessarily follows, gives to the
words employed their fair meaning and is in accord with
the evident intent of Congress. To hold that it applies
only when the accused personally writes the false entry
or affirmatively directs another so to do would emasculate the statut-defeat the very end in view.
Morse v. United States, 174 Fed. 539, 547, 553-Circuit Court of Appeals, Second Circuit-gave much consideration to an indictment and conviction under R. S.,
§ 5209. The Court said: "It is true that the defendant
did not make any of the entries in the books or reports
with his own pen. All of them were made by the employees of the bank as part of their routine work. If it
were n~cessary to prove against a director that he actually made the entry charged to be false, conviction under
the stdtute would be impossible, as these entries are invariably nade by subordinates in the executive department. Congress was not seeking to punish the ignorant
bookkeeper who copies items into the books as part
of his daily task, but the officers who conceived and carried out the fraudulent scheme which the false entry
was designed to conceal.
It is wholly immaterial
whether such officer acts through a pen or a clerk controlled by him." "It seems to us that defendant is as
fully responsible for any false entries which necessarily
result from the presentation of these pieces of paper
which he caused to be prepared as he would if he had
given oral instructions in reference to them or had written
them himself."
We agree with the view so expressed in that opinion.
United States v. McClarty, 191 Fed. 518 and 523, apparently is in conflict with our conclusion.
The record leaves us in no doubt that the false entries
on the ledger were the intended and necessary result of
respondent's deliberate action in withholding the deposit
tickets. Within the statute he made them.
130607°--37----

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The District Court will be affirmed.
Reversed.
KELLY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 309.

Submitted January 8, 1937.-Decided Fcruas'y 1, 1937.

1. Where, upon an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a
judgment of the District Court, the record contains no properly
authenticated statement of the evidence or agreed statement of
the case as required by Equity Rules 75 (b) and 77, and the
judgment is affirmed on that ground, although the cause was heard
without objection to the record, denial by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, upon a petition for rehearing, of an opportunity to
secure proper authentication of the record is an abuse of discretion.
P. 54.
2. While orderly procedure demands that the Equity Rules be enforced with the strictness necessary to effectuate their essential
purpose, yet when, as here, there is mere omission of some step
which has escaped the attention of both parties, and when rigorous
enforcement without fair opportunity to correct the error would
defeat hearing on the merits and entail unnecessary hardship,
appropriate relief promptly asked for should be afforded. P. 54.
3. In this case, permission to supply authentication of the record
would have occasioned no material injury to any party, nor interfered seriously with the business of the court. P. 55.
83 F. (2d) 783, 84 F. (2d) 541, reversed.

299 U. S. 528, to review a judgment affirming a judgment, 12 F. Supp. 11, which disaffirmed an order
of the Referee in Bankruptcy and allowed a claim of the
United States for income taxes against the estate of a
bankrupt. The tax liability had previously been sustained by the Board of Tax Appeals, 29 B. T. A. 514.
CERTIORARI,

