HOFFMAN v. RAUCH.
Opinion of the Court.

HOFFMAN v. RAUCH, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 563.

Argued February 12, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

1. Bonds held by a national bank for safe keeping only, were sold
by the cashier, without authority from their owner, and the price
was charged to the buyer's deposit account in the bank. Later, the
bank was declared insolvent and a receiver took charge. Held that
the owner of the bonds was not a preferred creditor. P. 256.
Nothing of value was added to the bank's property. Nothing
new came into its treasury. A credit entry against an outstanding obligation represented the only possible benefit. Its total
liabilities were not reduced since a new obligation arose to pay
to the owner the value of the bonds.
2. When a claim is made for preference against funds held by the
receiver of a national bank, the burden is upon the claimant to
establish his title; he must definitely trace something of value
which belonged to him, or the avails therefrom, into the receiver's
possession. A mere showing that the bank wrongly used property
of another in discharging its indebtedness does not suffice to establish a preferred claim against the receiver. P. 257.
85 F. (2d) 1000, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 538, to review the affirmance of
a judgment recovered against the receiver of a national
bank by the administrator of one whose bonds the bank,
while holding for safe keeping, had wrongfully sold.

Mr. George P. .Barse,with whom Mr. John F. Anderson
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Leland W. Walker for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The First National Bank, Boswell, Pennsylvania, was
declared insolvent January 26, 1932. Shortly thereafter
a receiver took charge.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

January 21, 1932, the bank's cashier, without her consent, sold four Liberty Bonds ($100.00 each), belonging
to Mrs. Rauch and held by it for safekeeping, to the
Lohrs. The purchase price was charged to their deposit
account.
Mrs. Rauch died June 2, 1932. Claiming a preference,
respondent, her administrator, refused the receiver's offer
of a general claim against the estate and brought suit.
Upon a directed verdict the administrator obtained judgment as a preferred creditor. The court was of opinion
"that the assets of the bank were augmented when the
bank received from its customer the price agreed upon
for said bonds and, therefore, that the plaintiff is entitled
to participate in the distribution of the assets of the defendant bank as a preferred creditor." The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed with an opinion which states:
"With the District Judge, we think that the proceeds
of these bonds augmented the assets of the bank. They
others."
certainly reduced its liability to
Petitioner maintains that the bank's assets were not
increased through sale of the bonds; that nothing arose
therefrom which in original or changed form can be
traced into the hands of the receiver.
Respondent submits that since the bank used the bonds
in discharge of a liability it "was thereby saved the use
of its own funds for that purpose and the assets of the
bank at the time of closing were therefore larger in
amount than they otherwise would have been. A discharge or reduction of a liability produces a corresponding increase in assets. For every debit there must be a
credit."
Obviously, nothing of value was added to the bank's
property. Nothing new came into its treasury. A credit
entry against an outstanding obligation represented the
only possible benefit. Its total liabilities were not reduced since a new obligation arose to pay to the owner
the value of the bonds.

HOFFMAN v. RAUCH.
255

Opinion of the Court.

Here it is accepted doctrine that when a claim is made
for preference against funds held by the receiver of a
national bank the burden is upon the claimant to establish his title; he must definitely trace something of value
which belonged to him, or the avails therefrom, into the
receiver's possession. Schuyler v. Littlefield, 232 U. S.
707, 713; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. -Pottorfl, 291 U. S.
245, 261. Also, a mere showing that the bank wrongly
used property of another in discharging its indebtedness
does not suffice to establish a preferred claim against the
receiver.
Accordingly, we must hold that the courts below were
in error and reverse the challenged judgment.
The applicable legal principles were much discussed
in Blakey v. Brinson, 286 U. S. 254; Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Pottorff, supra; Jennings v. United States Fidelity
& Guaranty Co., 294 U. S. 216; Old Company's Lehigh,
Inc. v. Meeker, 294 U. S. 227; Adams v. Champion, 294
U. S. 231; and Farmers' National Bank v. Pribble, 15
F. (2d) 175, 176.
Jennings v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
supra, pp. 224-225, said: "But the situation is very different when what has been received by the collecting
agent is not a thing at all, but a reduction of liabilities
by set-off or release . . . A debt does not furnish a continuum upon which a trust can be imposed after cancellation or extinguishment has put the debt out of existence
• . .The dividend that would be due upon the debts
canceled' through the set-off if they were now to be revived is the measure of any benefit accruing to the creditors." In Old Company's Lehigh, Inc. v. Meeker, supra,
p. 229, we asserted: "What was done by the Mamaroneck
bank on January 14, 1933, did not involve in its doing the
creation of a special deposit or an augmentation of the
assets. What was done had no-effect except to diminish
liabilities by reducing the indebtedness due to a depositor." And Adams v. Champion, supra, denied prefer130607°--37---17

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

ence in respect of so much of a bank credit arising from
the wrongful disposal of bonds as had been withdrawn
prior to the receivership. Only the balance came to the
receiver. We said, (239): "Evidence is lacking that it
was withdrawn in such a form or for such purposes as
to be represented by any assets forming part of the
estate today."
Respondent was not entitled to a preference. His
right to participation as a general creditor is conceded.
The cause must go back to the District Court with
directions to proceed in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

HENDERSON COMPANY v. THOMPSON

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 397.

Argued February 2, 3, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

Under a Texas statute regulating production and use of natural gas,
"sweet" gas, i. e., gas containing not more than 11/2 grains of hydrogen sulphide per 100 cubic feet, and therefore suitable for heating
and lighting, may not be used for the manufacture of carbon black;
but that substance may be manufactured from "sour" gas, i. e., gas
containing a greater percent. of hydrogen sulphide, not suitable in
its natural state for heating and lighting. As applied to a company
producing or otherwise acquiring "sweet" gas in the Panhandle
field for which it had no market other than to sell for manufacture
of carbon black, held:
1. The evidence does not sustain the contention that the prohibition will not operate to conserve "sweet" gas, as intended, but
will serve only to deprive the complainant of the gas to which it
is entitled,-such contention being based on the hypothesis that
the gas, if not extracted by the company will wander subterraneously to a "sour" gas area of the field and become "sour" gas.
P. 264.
2. There is no basis in the evidence for holding the classification
of "sweet" and "sour" gas arbitrary upon the hypothesis that the
hydrogen sulphide may be removed from the latter at trifling
expense. P. 264.

