Oct. 1874.]

VANNEVAR V. BRYAN T.
Statement of the case.

ject being to reach the property in his hands as trustee, and
subject it, through the ordinary powers of a court of chancery, to the payment of the debt it was given to secure.
The motion of Gardner, the mortgagor, to transfer the
cause, as to himself, to the Circuit Court, under the provisions of the act of July 27th, 1866, could not be granted
unless there could be a final determination of the cause, so
far as it concerned him, without the presence of the other defendant as a party. And we think that the Circuit Court was
right in its opinion that Walker was a necessary party to the
relief asked against Gardner, and in refusing to entertain
jurisdiction and in remanding the cause. The bill prayed a
foreclosure of the mortgage by a sale of the land. This required the presence of the party holding the legal title. The
complainant had only the equitable title. Walker held the
legal title. The final determination of the controversy,
therefore, required his presence, and as the cause was not
removable as to him, under the authority of Coal Company
v. Blatchford,* it could not be removed as to Gardner alone.
ORDER OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED.

VANNEVAR

v.

BRYANT.

1. A suit in a State court against several defendants, in which the plaintiff
and certain of the defendants are citizens of the same State, and the
remaining defendants citizens of other States, cannot be removed to the
Circuit Court under the act of March 2d, 1867. The Case of the ,ewing
Machines (18 Wallace, 553), affirmed.
2. Nor if the plaintiff was a citizen of one State and the defendants all citizens of one other State, could such removal be made where one trial has
been had and a motion for a new trial is yet pending and undisposed of.
To authorize a removal under the abovementioned act, the action must
at the time of the application for removal, be actually pending for trial.
ERROR to the Superior Court of Massachusetts; the case
being thus:
An act of Congress of March 2d, 1867, "to amend" a
* 11 Wallace, 172.

VANNEVAR V. BRYANT.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

prior act "for the removal of causes in certain cases from
State courts" (the act quoted supra, pp. 36, 37), enacts as
follows:
"Where a suit is pending in any State court in which there
is a controversy between a citizen of the State in which the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State... such citizen of another
State, whether he be plaintiff or defendant, if he will file an affidavit, &c., ... may at any time before the final hearing or trial of
the suit, file a petition for the removal of the suit into the next
Circuit Court of the United States, to be held in the district
where the suit is pending, &c., . . . and it shall, thereupon, be the
duty of the State court . ..to proceed no further in the suit.
And copies, &c., being entered in such court of the United States,
the suit shall there proceed in the same manner as if it had been
brought there by original process," &e.
This statute being in force, Bryant sued Vannevar, and
seven other persons, owners of the steamboat Eastern Queen,
in the Superior Court of Massachusetts, to recover damages
for an unlawful assault upon him by their servants and agents
while he was a passenger on their boat from Boston to
Gardiner. The plaintiff and four of the defendants were
citizens of Massachusetts, but three of the defendants were
citizens of Maine, and one of Missouri. The defence was
joint. A trial was had by a jury, which resulted in a verdict of $8000 against all the defendants. Thereupon all the
defendants joined in a motion to set aside the verdict and
for a new trial because the damages were excessive. Pending this motion and before judgment upon the verdict, the
three defendants who were citizens of Maine presented their
petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of
the United States, and accompanied it with the necessary
affidavits and bond, under the above act of March 2d, 1867.
The court refused to allow the transfer, and this refusal was
now assigned for error.
Mr. B. H. Morse, Jr.,for the plaintiff in error; Mr. C. .
Train, contra.

Oct. 1874.]

VANNEVAR V. BRYANT.
Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of the Sewing Machine Companies,* it was held
that an action upon a contract by a plaintiff, who was a citizen of the State in which the suit was brought, against two
defendants, who were citizens of other States, and a third
who was a citizen of the same State as the plaintiff, was not
removable to the Circuit Court under this act upon the petition of the two non-resident defendants., Without considering the question whether, in an action of tort by a resident
plaintiff, a non-resident defendant can, at a proper stage of
the proceedings and upon proper showing, remove the cause
as against himself, to the Circuit Court, under the act of
27th July, 1866,t we are clearly of the opinion that this case
comes within the principle settled in that of the Sewing Machine Companies. The petition was filed under the act of
1867, for a removal of the suit, and not, under the act of
1866, for its removal as against the non-resident defendants.
The transfer was also properly refused for another reason.
The act authorizes the petition for removal to be filed "at
any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit." The
hearing or trial, here referred to, is the examination of the
facts in issue. Hearing applies to suits in chancery and
trial to actions at law. In Insurance Company v. Dunn,j it
was held, that after a motion for a new trial had been granted,
a removal might be had. But after one trial the right to a
second must be perfected before a demand for the transfer.
can properly be made. Every trial of a cause is final until,
in some form, it has been vacated. Causes cannot be removed to the Circuit Court for a review of the action of the
State court, but only for trial. The Circuit Court cannot,
after one trial in a State court, determine whether there
shall be another. That is for the State court. To authorize
the removal, the action must, at the time of the application,
be actually pending for trial. Such was not the case here.
J UDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* 18 Wallace, 553.
-t 14 Stat. at Large, 806.
$ 19 Wallace, 214.

See the act, supra, p. 36.-REP.

