Oct. 1874.1

MAXWELL V. STEWART.
Syllabus.

must abide by the legality of the tax. When it follows the
statute its officers have the protection of the statute, and
parties must comply with the requirements thereof before
they can prosecute as plaintiffs.

The

JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and
A

VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with 'whom concurred Justices
SWAYNE, DAVIS, and STRONG, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case because the evidence offered by the distiller to
show that the assessment in question covered eight days in
which his distillery could not be operated was not an answer
to the whole declaration; nor could it be, as the assessment
was for a deficiency and covered the regular tax for a whole
month.
Suppose the evidence was admissible, still if it had been
admitted it would only have shown that the assessment was
excessive in amount, in which state of the case all will agree,
I suppose, that the defence must have failed, as the case
showed that no appeal had ever been taken to the Secretary
of the Treasury, as required by the act of Congress.
Such must be the rule, else it will follow that nothing can
be collected of the taxpayer in any case where the assessment is for an amount greater than that authorized by law,
which is a proposition at war with the whole system of Federal taxation.

MAXWELL V. STEWART.
1. Where there is no assignment of error, the defendant in error may either
move to dismiss the writ, or be may open the record and pray for an
affirmance.

2. In a suit upon a judgment of a sister State, objections to the form and
sufficiency of the evidence offered to prove the record on which the
action is brought cannot be sustained; the document offered being properly certified to be " a true and faithful copy of the record of the proceecings had in the cause."

MAXWELL V.

STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
8. Nor is it a valid objection against the jurisdiction of the court rendering
the judgment that the record shows that the cause was tried without the
intervention of a jury, and did not show that a jury had been waived as
provided by statute.

Eao to the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico.
Stewart brought an action in a State court of Kansas
against Maxwell. The writ was returned, "Not served."
Thereupon an attachment was issued and levied on his property. A bond was then entered into by which the property
was released.
The judgment entry recited that "the plaintiff appeared
by his attorney, J. C. Ilenningray, and the defendant by his
attorneys, John Martin and Isaac Sharp, and both parties
announcing themselves ready," the trial proceeded.
On the record of this judgment Stewart subsequently sued
Maxwell in the Territory of New Mexico, the clerk of the
court in Kansas certifying that the record "was a true and
faithful copy of the record of the proceedings had in the said
court in the said cause;" the cause, namely, in Kansas.
Three pleas were put in, alleging certain irregularities and
deficiencies in the said record, and also a plea that the judgment was void as the record showed that the case had been
tried without a jury. There was no plea alleging that the
attorneys who were represented by the record of the judgment to have appeared for the defendant were not authorized
to appear.
All the pleas were overruled, a judgment was rendered
for the plaintiff, and on appeal to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, where the overruling of the pleas was assigned
for error, the judgment was affirmed. The defendant now
brought the case here.
It may be well to state that by the statute of Kansas,* it
is provided that in actions on contracts the trial by jury may
be waived, by written consent, or "by oral consent in open
court, entered on the journal."
* Acts of 1868, p. 684,

289.

Oct. 1874.]

HAMILTON v. DILLIN.
Syllabus.

There was no appearance in this court by the plaintiffs in
error and no errors had been here assigned. The court accordingly, on the case being called, were about to dismiss
the writ. Mr. P. Phillips,for the defendant in error, however,
opened the record and prayed an affirmance of the judgment.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
On examining the record we find that four errors were
assigned in the court below. The first three relate to the
form and sufficiency of the evidence offered to prove the
record of the judgment in the District Court of the State of
Kansas upon which the action was brought. We think the
objections were not well taken and that there was no error
in overruling them.
The fourth is to the effect that the judgment in the Kansas
court was void because the cause was tried by the court
without the waiver of a trial by jury entered upon the
journal. Whatever might be the effect of this omission in
a proceeding to obtain a reversal or vacation of the judgment, it is very certain that it does not render the judgment
void. At most it is only error and cannot be taken advantage of collaterally.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

NOTE.

A motion was afterwards made by 3r.J. S. Watts, for the
plaintiffin error,to rehear the case; but the motion was denied.

HAMILTON V. DILLIN.
The government of the United States clearly has power to permit limited
commercial intercourse with an enemy in time of war, and to impose

such conditions thereon as it sees fit; this power is incident to the power
to declare war and to carry it on to a successful termination.

