SOHULENBERG V.

HARRIMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

SCHULENBERG

ET AL. V. HARRIMAN.

1. On the 3d of June, 1856, Congress passed an act entitled " An act granting public lands to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of
That act grants to the State for the purpose
railroads in said State."
of aiding in the construction of a railroad between certain specified
points every alternate section of land, designated by an odd number, for
six sections in width on each side of the road. The language of the first
section of the act is, "that there be, and is hereby, granted to the State
of Wisconsin," the lands specified. The third section declares "that
the said lands heeby grantedto said State shall be subject to the disposal
of the legislature thereof;" and the fourth section provides in what
manner sales shall be made, and enacts that if the road be not completed within ten years, "no further sales shall be made, and the lands
The State accepted the grant
unsold shall revert to the United States."
thus made, and assumed the execution of the trust. The route of the
road was surveyed, and a map of its location was filed in the land office
at Washington. The adjoining odd sections within the prescribed
limits were then withdrawn from sale by the proper officers of the government and certified lists thereof, approved by the Secretary of the Interior, were delivered to the State. Subsequently, on the 5th of lay,
1864, Congress passed another act on the same subject, entitled "An act
granting lands to aid in the construction of certain railroads in the State
By its first. section additional land is granted to the
of Wisconsin."
State upon the same terms and conditions as those contained in the previous act, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of the road between certain of the points designated in the act of 1856, and the last
act extends the time for completing the road for five years. This road
has never been constructed, nor any part of it, and the time for its construction has not been extended since the act of 1864. Nor has Congress
passed any act, nor have any judicial proceedings been taken to enforce
a forfeiture of the grants for failure to construct the road within the
period prescribed. Held:
1st. That the act of June 3d, 1856, and the first section of the act of May
5th, 1864, are grants in presenti, and passed the title to the odd sections
designated to be afterwards located; when the route was fixed their
location became certain, and the title, which was previously imperfect,
acquired precision and became attached to the land;
2d. That the lands granted have not reverted to the United States, although
the road was not constructed within the period prescribed, no action
having been taken either by legislation or judicial proceedings to enforce a forfeiture of the grants.
2. Unless there are clauses in a statute restraining the operation of words of
present grant, these must be taken in their natural sense to import an
immediate transfer of title, although subsequent proceedings may be

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN.
Statement of the case.

S.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

required to give precision to that title and attach it to specific tracts.
No individual can call in question the validity of the proceedings by
which precision is thus given to the title where the United States are
satisfied with them.
The provision in the act of 1856 that all lands remaining unsold after ten
years shall revert to the United States, if the road be not then completed, is a condition subsequent, being in effect a provision that the
grant to the extent of the lands unsold shall be void if the work designated be not done within that period.
No one can take advantage of the non-performance of a condition subsequent annexed to an estate in fee, but the grantor or his heirs or successors, and if they do not see fit to assert their right to enforce a forfeiture on that ground, the title remains unimpaired in the grantee. The
rule equally obtains where the grant upon condition proceeds from the
government.
The manner in which the reserved right of the grantor for breach of the
condition must be asserted so as to restore the estate depends upon the
character of the grant. If it be a private grant, that right must be
asserted by entry, or its equivalent. If the grant be a public one, the
right must be asserted by judicial proceedings authorized by law, or
there must be some legislative assertion of ownership of the property
for breach of the condition, such as an act directing the possession and
appropriation of the property, or that it be offered for sale or settlement.
Where the title to land remains in the State, timber cut upon the land
belongs to the State. Whilst the timber is standing it constitutes a part
of the realty; being severed from the soil its character is changed; it
becomes personalty, but its title is not affected; it continues as previously
the property of the owner of the land, and can he pursued wherever it is
carried. All the remedies are open to the owner which the law affords in
other cases of the wrongful removal or conversion of personal property.
Where logs cut from the lands of the State without license have been
intermingled with logs cut from other lands, so as not to be distinguishable, the State is entitled, under the law of Minnesota, to replevy an
equal amount from the whole mass. The remedy afforded by the law
of ?3finnesota in such case held to be j ust in its operation and less severe
than that which the common law would authorize.
Where, in an action of replevin, the complaint alleges property and right
of possession in the plaintiffs, and the answer traverses directly these
allegations, under the issue thus formed any evidence is admissible on
the part of the defendant which goes to show that the plaintiffs have
neither property nor right of possession. Evidence of title in a stranger
is admissible.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota.
Schulenberg and others brought replevin against Harri.
man for the possession of certain personal property, consist..
ERROR

SCHULENBERG V.

HARRIMAN.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ing of over sixteen hundred thousand feet of pine saw-logs,
claimed by them, and alleged to be unlawfully detained from
them by the defendant. The logs thus claimed were cut on

SOP

LLAKE

S U,4P BBO10

lands embraced in an act of Congress approved June 3d,
1856, entitled "An act granting public lands to the State of
Wisconsin to aid in the construction of railroads in said
State."* That act declares in its first section "that there be,
and is hereby, granted to the State of Wisconsin, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad from Madison or Columbus by the way of Portage City to the St.
Croix River or lake, between townships twenty-five and
thirty-one, and from thence to the west end of Lake Superior
and to Bayfield, . . . every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers for six sections in width, on each side
of the road," . . . and "that the land hereby. granted shall
11 Stat. at Large, 20.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN.
Statement of the case.

be exclusively applied in the construction of the railroad
for which it is granted and selected, and to no other purpose whatsoever." . .. In its third section the act provides
"that the said lands hereby granted to said State shall be
subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof for the purposes aforesaid and no other." And in its fourth section,
that the lands "shall be disposed of by said State only in
the manner following, that is to say, a quantity of land not
exceeding one hundred and twenty sections, and included
within a continuous length of twenty miles of road, may be
sold; and when the governor of said State shall certify to the
Secretary of the Interior that any twenty continuous miles
of said road are completed, then another like quantity of
land hereby granted may be sold, and so on from time to
time until said road is completed, and ifsaid road is not completed within ten years no furthersales shall be made, and the lands
unsold shall revert to the United States."
The State of Wisconsin, by act of its legislature, accepted
the grant thus made, and assumed the execution of the trust.
The route of the road was surveyed, and a map of its location was filed in the land office at Washington. The adjoining odd sections within the prescribed limits were then
withdrawn from sale by the proper officers of the government, and certified lists thereof, approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, were delivered to the State.
Subsequently, on the 5th of May, 1864, Congress passed
another act on the same subject, entitled "An act granting
lands to aid in the construction of certain railroads in the
State of Wisconsin."* By its first section additional land
was granted to the State upon the same terms and conditions contained in the previous act, for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of a railroad from a point on the St.
Croix River or lake, between townships twenty-five and
thirty-one, to the west end of Lake Superior, and from some
point on the line of said railroad, to be selected by the State,
to Bayfield, and the time for the completion of the road, as
18 Stat. at Large, 66.

SCHULENBERG

V. HARRIMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mentioned in the previous act, was extended for the period
of five years from the passage of the last act. The State,
through its legislature, accepted this grant also.
There were also some other grants made by the act for
other railroads.
The road here mentioned, and which is a part of the road
designated in the act of 1856, has never been constructed,
nor has any part of it been constructed, and Congress has
not passed any act since 1864 extending the time for its construction. Nor has Congress passed any act, nor have any
judicial proceedings been taken by any branch of the government to enforce a forfeiture of the grants for failure to
construct the road within the period prescribed.
The complaint in the case alleged property and right of
possession in the plaintiffs. The answer among other matters traversed these allegations.
It was stipulated by the parties that the plaintifis were in
the quiet and peaceable possession of the logs at the time
of their seizure by the defendant, and that such possession
should be conclusive evidence of title in the plaintiffs against
evidence of title in a stranger, unless the defendant should
connect himself with such title by agency or authority in
himself. and that the seizure of th property by the defendant was, so far as the manner of making the same was concerned, valid and legal in all respects, as though made under
and by virtue of legal process, the evident object of the
stipulation being to test the right of the parties to the property independent of the manner of its seizure.
By an act of the legislature of Wisconsin of March 3d,
1869, the governor of the State was authorized to appoint
competent persons as agents of the State, whose duty it was
made to preserve and protect the timber growing upon the
lands granted by the acts of Congress, and to take into possession on behalf of the State any logs and timber which
might be cut on or carried away from those premises without lawful authority, wherever the same might be.
The evidence showed that defendant was appointed agent
of the State under this act, and that as such-agent he seized

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN.
Statement of the case.

the logs for which the present action was brought; that the
logs were, during thb years 1870 and 1871, floated from the
places where they were cut down the river St. Croix into a
boom at Stillwater, in the State of Minnesota, and were
there intermingled with other logs of similar character and
marks belonging to the plaintiffs, so that the particular logs
cut on the lands granted to the State could not be distinguished from logs cut on other lands; that the boom from
which the defendant seized the logs in suit was two and a
half miles long, and from one to three-fourths of a mile
wide, and contained about three hundred millions of feet of
pine logs; that the defendant before the seizure demanded
of the plaintiffs the logs cut on the lands granted, and the
plaintiffs refused to deliver them.
The defendant contended in support of the seizure and of
his right to the possession of the property1st. That the act of Congress of June 3d, 1856, and the
first section of the act of May 5th, 1864, passed the legal title
to the lands designated therein to the State of Wisconsin in
trust for the construction of the railroad nentioned.
2d. That the lands designated have not reverted to the
United States, although the road was not constructed within
the period prescribed, no judicial proceedings nor any act
on the part of the government having been taken to forfeit
the grants.
3d. That the legal title to the lands being in the State, it
was the owner of the logs cut thereon, and could authorize
the defendant as its agent to take possession of them wherever found; and,
4th. That under the law of Minnesota, the plaintiffs having
mingled the logs cut by them on the lands of the State with
other logs belonging to them, so that the two classes could
not be distinguished, the defendant had a right, after demand
upon the plaintifs, to take from the mass a quantity of logs
equal to those which were cut on the lands of the State.
The plaintiffs controverted these several positions, and
contended besides that under the stipulation of the parties
and the pleadings in the case, no proof of title in the State
VOL.

1x.

4

SCHULENBERG V.

HARRIMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

was admissible; and that if the acts of Congress vested a
title in the State that title was transferred by the nineteenth
section of an act of its legislature, passed March 10th, 1869,
to the St. Croix and Superior Railroad Company, a corporation then created for the purpose of constructing the railroads designated in those acts. That section was as follows:
"For the purpose of aiding in the construction of the railway
hereby incorporated, the State of Wisconsin hereby transfers
unto said company all the rights, title, interest, and estate, legal
or equitable, now owned by the State in the lands heretofore
conditionally granted to the St. Croix and Superior Railroad
Company, for the construction of a railroad and branches; and
โข . . does further grant, transfer, and convey unto the said railway company . . . the possession, right, title, interest, and

estate which the said State of Wisconsin may now have or shall
hereafter acquire of, in, or to any lands, through gift, grant, or
transfer from the United States, or by any act of the Congress
of the United States, amending ' An act granting a portion of
the public lands to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction of a railroad,-approved June 3d, 1856,' and the act or acts
amendatory thereof, or by any future acts of the Congress of
the United States granting lands to the State of Wisconsin, so
far as the same may apply to, and in the construction of, a railroad from Bayfield, in the county of Bayfield, in a southwesterly
direction, to the intersection of the main line of the Northern
Wisconsin Railway, from the lake or river St. Croix to Superior,
to have and to hold such lands, and the use, possession, and fee
in the same, upon the express condition to construct the herein
described railway within the several terms and spaces of time
set forth and specified in the next preceding section of this act;
and upon the construction and completion of every twenty miles of
said railway the said company shall acquire the fee simple absolute
in and to all that portion of lands granted to this State in any of the
ways hereinbefore described by the Congress of the United States,
appertainingto that portion of the railway so constructed and completed."
The following provisions of law are in force in Minnesota,
and were in force when the logs in suit were seized by the.
defer dant:

Oct. 1874.]

SOHULENBERG

V.

HARRIMAN.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

"SEcTioN 2. In cases where logs or timber bearing the same
mark, but belonging to different owners in severalty, have, with-

out fault of any of them, become so intermingled that the particular or identical logs or timber belonging to each cannot be
designated, either of such owners may, upon a failure of any
one of them, having possession, to make a just division thereof,
after demand, bring and maintain against such one in possession
an action to recover his proportionate share of said logs or timber, and in such action he may claim and have the immediate
delivery of such quantity of said logs or timber as shall equal
his said share, in like manner and with like force and effect as

though such quantity embraced .his identical logs and timber
and no other."*
The court below being of opinion in favor of the defendant, on the different points raised, he obtained judgment
that he recover possession of the property which had been
replevied from him after his seizure of the same, or the sum
of $16,809, their value and costs. To reverse this judgment
the plaintiffs brought the case here on writ of error.
171r. E.C. Palmer,for the plaintiff in error:
I. Under the pleadings and stipulation evidence of title in the
State was inadmissible.t
When the defendant in replevin claims a return of the
property replevied, he occupies, as to his own title or claim,
the position of a plaintiffEi His answer, therefore, should
set up the same facts substantially which would be required
in a complaint.
II. The court below improperly held that the legal title to the
lands embraced in the acts of Congress of June 3d, 1856, and
.May 5th, 1864, still remained in the State of Wisconsin.
1. The acts of Congress did not constitute a grant in pre* Chapter 59, General Laws of Minnesota, approved March 1st, 1865.

t Anstice v. Holmes, 3 Denio, 244; Harrison v. McIntosh, 1 Johnson, 380;
lRogers v. Arnold, 12 Wendell, 30; Prosser et al. v. Woodward, 21 Id. 205;
8 Ohitty's Pleadings, 1044, title "1Replevin;" General Statutes of Minne79, 113; Coit v. Waples et al., 1 Minnesota, 134; Finley n
sota, ch. 66,
Quirk, 9 Id. 194.
$ General Statutes of Minnesota, ch. 66, title viii, and see. 119.

SCULENBERG V.

HIARRIMAN.

[Sup. CL.

Argument for thq plaintiff in error.

seni. The State acquired under them only a permissive
right to dispose of said lands, for a defined purpose, upon
complying with certain conditions named in the acts, and
acquired no title of any degree in the lands. It was not upon
the theory that this proposed road was a State need that
this appropriation of the national resources was made, but
upon the theory that it was a national need. It is true the
State of Wisconsin was interested in the results of the improvement, but the national policy of making internal improvements would forbid her to assert that she was more
than the local agent of the Federal government inocarrying
out the object of this appropriation. The purpose and end
of the grant do not require the construction that the State
takes the legal title in presenti, by virtue of the acts. It
must be presumed that Congress in passing the acts considered that the general good would be best subserved by such
application of a portion of the public lands, and so made
provisions, through the agency of the States and their representatives, the railroad companies, to dispense, as the improvements go on, the fund provided to further such object.
2. It is a general rule that all public grants are to be construed strictly and in favor of the public, and that nothing
passes but what is granted in clear and explicit terms.*
3. That the acts of Congress were not per se a grant in
presentito the State of all the lands therein described, and
that a present right, estate, and interest in the same, did not
pass by the terms of the acts, is settled by the case in this
court of Rice v. Railroad Gompany.t There the matter is
considered in the interpretation of the grant made by Congress on the 29th of June, 1854, to the Territory of Minnesota; a grant, so far as the present question is concerned,
identical with this one.
* Rice v. Railroad Company, 1 Black, 380; Mills et al. v. St. Clair County,
8 Howard, 581; Richmond Railroad v. The Louisa Railroad, 13 Id. 81; Commonwealth v. The Erie, &c., Railroad Co., 27 Pennsylvania State, 339; Dubuque, &c., Railroad v. Litchfield, 23 Howard, 66-88; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691.
t 1 Black, 376.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

HIL if the title passed to the State by the said acts, such title
reverted to the United States, no part of the road having been built
at the expiration of the period limited in the grant.*
Here was a grant or appropriation of part of the public
domain for a defined purpose upon condition that such purpose should be accomplished within a time limited. It was
founded upon no consideration unless the road in aid of
which the appropriation was made should be built. The
lands could not be sold until certain defined portions of the
road should be constructed and due proof thereof made to
the Secretary of the Interior. At the expiration of the time
limited, all lands not patented were to revert to the United
States.
The court below held that such lands did not ipsofacto revert to the United States by mere failure to build the road
within the period prescribed by the act of Oongress; and
that to effect the forfeiture some act on the part of the General government evincing an intention to take advantage of
such failure is essential.
This position is met in Rice v. Railroad Company, already
cited. The court there says:

"1Neither of the sections . . . contain any words which necessarily and absolutely vest in the Territory any beneficial interest
in the thing granted. Undoubtedly the words employed are
sufficient to have that effect, and if not limited or restricted by
the context or other parts of the act, they would properly receive that construction, but the word grant is not a technical
word, like the word enfeoff, and although if used broadly without limitation or restriction, it would carry an estate or interest
in the thing granted, still it may be used in a more restricted
sense, and be so limited that the grantee will take but a mere
naked trust or power to dispose of the thing granted and to apply the proceeds arising out of it to the use and benefit of the
grantor."
Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 881 ; United States v. W-Vggins, 14 Peters,
884; Buyck v United States, 15 Id. 215; O'Hara et al. v. United States, 1b.
275; Glenn v. United States, 13 Howard, 250; Kennedy et al. v. Heirs of
McCartney, 4 Porter, 141.

SCHULENBERG V.

HARRIMAN.

[Sup. Ot

Argument for the defendant in error.

Indeed, public policy demands that the government should
not be required to take any step in order to place lands embraced in such public acts, as are now under consideration,
in their former condition, at the precise time provided in
the act. To require a judicial declaration of forfeiture would
clog the free disposition of the public lands, which the government ought at all times to be able to exercise in furtherance of the public interests. And it is not clear how or
where such proceeding could be instituted, or who would be
necessary parties thereto. An act of Congress, or an order
of the Land Department, or Secretary of the Interior, could
not conclude any one or divest title previously vested.
The rule as sometimes applied to private grants rests upon
the principle that such grants carry the fee of the land, and
the right of actual occupancy for such purposes as the grantee desires to effect, subject however to certain conditions,
which, if unperformed, may operate as a defeasance, provided the grantor shall re-enter for condition broken; that
the title or interest of the grantee is an estate which can be
incumbered or transferred by deed, like other real property,
and cannot be diverted except by judicial proceedings instituted for that purpose.
Under the act of 1864 no land could be sold until twenty
miles were constructed, and then only those sections which
were coterminous with the constructed line, not by the
State, but by the companies. No road can be constructed
after ten years under the first act, nor after five years from
May 5th, 1864, under the second. Under this act the State
possesses no disposing power over the lands by sale or conveyance. Unless, therefore, the State can create or designate certain railroad corporations to receive the grant, there
can occur no contingency in which the State would have any
duty to perform or any right or power in the premises.
Such case, irrespective of the question of legal title, bears
no analogy to a private grant, where the estate and power
of the grantee are as ample, in the beginning and until reentry or forfeiture judicially declared, as if the grant contained no conditions whatever.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN.

Argument for the defendant in error.

IV. If the State acquired title by the acts of Congress, that title
passed under the legislation of the State, in 1869, to a corporation
incorporatedto construct the roads.
The nineteenth section of the act of March 10th, 1869,
(quoted supra, p. 50), was a present grant of the interest of
the State. The State after this had no power to protect the
land from trespassers or to seize the timber cut.
V. The defendavt could not lawfully seize the logs in controversy, because they could not be identified as the logs cut on the
lands of the State.
The statute of Minnesota has no relation to the action of
replevin, and cannot avail the defendant herein, whatever
effect it would have upon the measure of damages in an
action of trover. At common law the .rule is without exception in replevin that the property must be identified, or
the action will not lie.
Messrs. I C. Sloan, B. J.Stevens, and 3". C. Spooner, contra:
I. Under the pleadings it was competent for the defendant
to prove title in a stranger, and in that way to defeat the
plaintiffs.* Such proof went directly to meet a material allegation of the plaintiffs. Proving title in the State of Wisconsin, "a stranger" would, indeed,, under the stipulation, have
been insufficient; but when after proving the acceptance by
the State of the grants, sufficient evidence was given that
the defendant had been the agent of the State for the preservation and protection of the timber growing on the lands
embraced inthe grants, and that he had authority to so protect them; that his seizure and possession of the logs in controversy were as such agent, and under the authority given
him by the State of Wisconsin, pursuant to its laws, it
"connected the defendant with such title by competent evidence of authority or agency in himself." The evidence
was thus competent under the pleadings, material to the
issues, strictly proper in itself, and in literal fulfilment of the
stipulation.
* Dermott v. Wallach, 1 Black, 96.

SCHULENBERG V.

HARRIMA-u.-

[Sul). Ot.

Argument for the defendant in error.

IL That the acts of Congress vested an estate in presenti,
is proved by .Rutheifordv. Gr-eene's -Heirs,*Lessieur v. Price,t
and by other cases.1
In -Rice v. Railroad Company, the act which it was said
made the grant, unlike the act of 1856, which made the grant
here, in terms provided that the title should not vest until the
road, or portions thereof, were built. That grant was repealed by Congress before any disposition of it became operative, and it was held by a majority of this court that the act
vested in the Territory "a mere naked trust or power to
dispose of the lands in the manner therein specified," and
until the power was in fact executed was the subject of repeal, but that if the clause providing that the title should
not vest, &c., had been omitted, it would have been similar
to the grant considered in Lessieur v. Price, and been "a
present grant." The case is plainly distinguishable from ours,
and in fact accords with the judgment below.
Ill. It is argued in effect that the words in the act, "shall
revert to the United States," were intended as a declaration of forfeiture in advance. But until forfeiture has been
incurred, it is not cpmpetent for the legislature to declare it;
because the legislature cannot know in advance whether or
not it may not wish to waive the forfeiture. The words are
merely definitive of the condition, for the non-performance
of which the legislature may thereafter declare a forfeiture,
and are to be construed in connection with the whole act,
and in the light of the objects to be accomplished thereby.
In the case of United States v. Repentigny,ยง the corresponding words were, "and that in default thereof, the same shall
be reunited to his Majesty's domain;" words equally imperative with those of the act in question, and yet they were
held not to be a declaration of forfeiture, but as definitive
of the condition merely.
2 Wheaton, 196.

1

f 12 Howard, 59.

United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 51 ; Mitchel v. Unito States, 9
Id. 711; United States v. Brooks, 10 Howard, 442; Ladiga v. Roland, 2
Id. 581.
J 5 Wallace, 267.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG

v.

HARRIMAN.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Even where the condition provides that the estate shall be
void on non-performance, the estate is not defeated without
some act or declaration of the grantor.* This is one of the
most ancient principles of the common law assumed as settled in cases reported as far back as Leonard, Sir Francis
Moore, Plowden, Coke, and Croke,t vouching the Year
Books, and affirmed by many modern decisions.t In the
case of an individual it is by entry; in the case of the government by office found.
As Congress is the grantor in the case at bar, and has
sole authority to dispose of the public domain by grant,
Congress alone can declare the intention to enforce the forfeiture. As held by the court in United Stales v. .Repentigny,
supra, an act of Congress is an equivalent for office found.
The election to waive the forfeiture or to enforce it rests
with Congress. It is a question of intention; and no department of the government, either the executive or judicial,
can know what the pleasure of Congress may be, and cannot, therefore, treat the title to the lands as revested until
Congress has declared its intention in that regard.
This court will take judicial notice of the proceedings of
Congress, and, therefore, we refer to the facts that on two
or more occasions Congress has refused to declare and enforce the forfeiture of the grant in question; that bills having
passed the House were rejected in the Senate, showing an
Sneed v. Ward, 5 Dana, 187; Cross v. Coleman, 6 Dana, 446.
j- Sir Moyle Finch's Case, 2 Leonard, 143; Same Case, Moore, 296; Willion
v. Berkley, 1 Plowden, 229; Sir George Reynel's Case, 9 Reports, 96, b;
Tarslow v. Corn, Croke Eliz. 855.
$ Railroad Company v. Smith, 9 Wallace, 95; Hornsy .%United States,
10 Id. 224; Marwick v. Andrews, 25 Maine, 525; Guild v. Richards, 16
Gray, 809; United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wallace, 267; Fairfax's Devisee v. Bunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 631; Smith v. Maryland, 6 Id. 286;
Little vJ.Watson, 32 Maine, 214; People v. Brown, 1 Caines's Reports, 416;
Nicoll v. New York and Erie Railroad Co., 12 New York, 121; Osgood
v. Abbott, 58 Maine, 73; Sneed v. Ward, 5 Dana, 187; Cross v. Coleman, 6
Id. 446; Towle v. Smith, 2 Robertson's New York, 489; Duncan v.'Beard,
5 South Carolina (2 Nott & McCord), 405; Wilbur v. Tobey, 16 Pickering,
177; Thompson v. Bright, 1 Cushing, 428; Fremont v. United States, 17
Howard, 560.

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

intention on the part of Congress to waive a forfeiture, if
one has in fact been incurred.
We may also refer to the fact that more than two-thirds
of the line of railroad authorized by the act of June 3d, 1856,
has been constructed is recognized and shown by various
acts of Congress.
Conditions subsequent are not favored in law, and are
construed strictly.*
IV. The act of the legislature of Wisconsin of March
10th, 1869, did not transfer the title to the lands from the
State to the railroad company in the way alleged by opposing counsel.
1. The State could only dispose of the lands in the manner provided by the act of Congress of June 3d, 1856, that
is, as fast as the railroad was constructed. It was thus a
trustee, with power of disposal limited by the act creating
the trust.
2. The concluding terms of section nineteen (italicized
supra, p. 50), are to be construed with that earlier portion
of the section (which might be sufficient in form to convey
a present title) and modifies and limits its operation. The
specific declaration as to the time when the title in fee should
vest, is equivalent to a provision that the fee shall not vest
except as the road is constructed.t
V. The last point made by opposing counsel is answered
by the statute of Minnesota, whose words are too plain to be
misconstrued.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
The position of the plaintiffs, that under the stipulation
of the parties and the pleadings no proof of title in the State
to the logs in controversy was admissible, cannot be sustained. The complaint alleges property and right of pos* United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wallace, 267; Emerson v. Simpson, 48
New Hampshire, 475; Hooper v. Cummings, 45 Maine, 359.
t Rice v. Railroad, 1 Black, 358.

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG V. HARRIMAN.

59

Opinion of the court.

session in the plaintiffs; the answer traverses directly these
allegations, and under the issue thus formed any evidence
was admissible on the part of the defendant which went to
show that the plaintiffs had neither property nor right of
possession. Evidence of title in the State would meet directly the averment, upon proof of which the plaintiffs could
alone recover; and the stipulation was evidently framed
upon the supposition that title in the State-for there was
no other stranger-would be offered, and it provided for
the inconclusiveness of the evidence against the possession
of the plaintifs unless the defendant connected himself with
that title. The admitted quiet and peaceable possession of
the property by the plaintiffs at the time of the seizure was
prin2dfacie evidence of title, and threw the burden upon the
defendant of establishing the contrary.
The position that if the acts of Congress vested in the
State a title to the lands designated, that title was transferred by the act of its legislature, passed March 10th, 1869,
is equally untenable. The State by the terms of the grants
from Congress possessed no authority to dispose of the lands
beyond one hundred and twenty sections, except as the road,
in aid of which the grants were made, was constructed. The
company named in the-act never constructed any portion of
such road, and there is no evidence that the State ever exercised the power to sell the one hundred and twenty sections authorized in advance of such construction. The acts
of Congress made it a condition precedent to the conveyance
by the State of any other lands, that the road should be constructed in sections of not less than twenty consecutive miles
each. N o conveyance in violation of the terms of those acts,
the road not having been constructed, could pass any title
to the company.
Besides, it is evident, notwithstanding the words of transfer to the company contained in the first part of the nineteenth section of the act of the State, that it was not the intention of the State that the title should pass except upon
the construction of the road. Its concluding language is
that " upon the construction and completion of every twenty

SCHULENBERG V.

HARRIMAN.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

miles of said railway the said company shall acquire the fee
simple absolute in and to all that portion of the land
granted" to the State appertaining to the portion of the
railway so constructed and completed.
We proceed, therefore, to the consideration of the several
grounds upon which the defendant justifies his seizure of
the logs in controversy, and claims a return of them to him.
1. That the act of Congress of June 3d, 1856, passed a
present interest in the lands designated there can be no
doubt. The language used imports a present grant and admits of no other meaning. The language of the first section
is, "t hat there be, and is hereby, granted to the State of Wisconsin" the lands specified. The third section declares
"that the said lands hereby granted to said State shall be subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof;" and the fourth
section provides in what manner sales shall be made, and
enacts that if the road be not completed within ten years
"no further sales shall be made, and the lands unsold shall
revert to the United States." The power of disposal and the
provision for the lands reverting both imply what the first
section in terms declares, that a grant is made, that is, that
the title is transferred to the State. It is true that the route
of the railroad, for the construction of which the grant was
made, was yet to be designated, and until such designation
the title did not attach to any specific tracts of land. The
title passed to the sections, to be afterwards located; when
the route was fixed their location became certain, and the
title, which was previously imperfect, acquired precision and
became attached to the land.
In the case of Ruthe ford v. Greene's Heirs, reported in the
second of Wheaton, a similar construction was given by this
court to an act of North Carolina, passed in 1782, which
provided that twenty-five thousand acres of land should be
allotted and given to General Greene and his heirs within
the limits of a tract reserved for the use of the army, to be
laid off by commissioners appointed for that purpose. The
commissioners pursuant to the directions of the act allotted
the twenty-five thousand acres and caused the quantity to be

Oct. 1871.1

SOIULENBERG

v.

HARRIMAN.

Opinion of the court.

surveyed and the survey to be returned to the proper office,
and the questions raised in the case related to the validity
of the title of General Greene, and the date at which it commenced. The court held that the general gift of twenty-five
thousand acres lying in the territory reserved became by
the survey a particular gift of the quantity contained in the
survey, and concluded an extended examination of the title
by stating that it was the clear and unanimous opinion of
the court, that the act of 1782 vested a title in General
Greene to the twenty-five thousand acres to be laid off within
the bounds designated, and that the survey made in pursuance of the act gave precision to that title and attached it to
the land surveyed.
On the 6th of March, 1820, Congress passed an act for the
admission of Missouri into the Union, and among other regulations to aid the new State, enacted, "that four entire sections of land be and the same are hereby granted to said
State for the purpose of fixing the seat of government
thereon, which said sections shall, under the direction of
the legislature of said State, be located as near as may be in
one body, at any time, in such townships and ranges as the
legislature aforesaid may select, on any of the public lands
of the United States." In Lessieur v. Price, reported in the
twelfth of Howard, the operation of this act was considered;
and the court said:
"The land was granted by the act of 1820; it was a present
grant, wanting identity to make it perfect; and the legislature was vested with full power to select and locate the land;
and we need only here say, what was substantially said by
this court in the case of 1uthe~ford v. Greene's -Heirs,that the
act of 1820 vested a title in the State of Missouri of four
sections; and that the selection made by the State legislature pursuant to the act of Congress, and the notice given
of such location to the surveyor-general and the register of
the local district where the land lay, gave precision to the
title, and attached to it the laud selected. The United States
assented to this mode of proceeding; nor can an individual
call it in question."

SOHULE.NBERG V.

HIARRIMAN.

[Sul). Ct

Opinion of the court.

Numerous other decisions might be cited to the same purport. They establish the conclusion that unless there are
other clauses in a statute restraining the operation of words
of present grant, these must be taken in their natural sense
to import an immediate transfer of title, although subsequent
proceedings may be required to give precision to that title
and attach it to specific tracts. No individual can call in
question the validity of the proceedings by which precision
is thus given to the title where the United States are satisfied
with them.
The rules applicable to private transactions, which regard
grants of future application-of lands to be afterwards designated-as mere contracts to convey, and not as actual conveyances, are founded upon the common law, which requires
the possibility of present identification of property to the
validity of its transfer. A legislative grant operates as a
law as well as a transfer of the property, and has such force
as the intent of the legislature requires.
The case of Rice v. .RailroadCompany, reported in the first
of Black, does not conflict with these views. The words of
present grant in the first section of the act there under consideration were restrained by a provision in a subsequent
section declaring that the title should not vest in the Territory of Minnesota until the road or portions of it were built.
The grant of additional land by the first section of the act
of Congress of 1864 is similar in its language and is subject
to the same terms and conditions as the grant by the act of
1856. With the other grants, made by the act of 1864, we
are not concerned in the present case.
2. The provision in the act of Congress of 1856, that all
lands remaining unsold after ten years shall revert to the
United States, if the road be not then completed, is no more
than a provision that the grant shall be void if a condition
subsequent be not perforifned. In Sheppard's Touchstone it
is said: "If the words in the close or conclusion of a condition be thus: that the land shall return to the enfeoffor,
&c., or that he shall take it again and turn it to his own
profit, or that the land shall revert, or that the feoffor shall

Oct. 1874.]

SCHULENBERG

V.

HARRIMAN.

Opinion of the court.

recipere the land, these are, either of them, good words in a
condition to give a re-entry-as good as the word I re-enter'
-and by these words the estate will be made conditional."*
The prohibition against further sales, if the road be not
completed within the period prescribed, adds nothing to the
force of the provision. A cessation of sales in that event is
implied in the condition that the lands shall then revert; if
the condition be not enforced the power to sell continues as
before its breach, limited only by the objects of the grant,
and the manner of sale prescribed in the act.
And it is settled law that no one can take advantage of
the non-performance of a condition subsequent annexed to
an estate in fee, but the grantor or his heirs, or the successors
of the grantor if the grant proceed from an artificial person;
and if they do not see fit to assert their right to enforce a
forfeiture on that ground, the title remains unimpaired in
the grantee. The authorities on this point, with hardly an
exception, are all one way from the Year Books down. And
the same doctrine obtains where the grant upon condition
proceeds from the government; no individual can assail the
title it has conveyed on the ground that the grantee has
failed to perform the conditions annexed.t
In what manner the reserved right of the grantor for
breach of the condition must be asserted so as to restore the
estate ddpends upon the character of the grant. If it be a
private grant, that right must be asserted by entry or its
equivalent. If the grant be a public one it must be asserted
by judicial proceedings authorized by law, the equivalent
of an inquest of office at common law, finding the fact of
forfeiture and adjudging the restoration of the estate on
that ground, or there must be some legislative assertion of
ownership of the property for breach of the condition, such
* Sheppard's Touchstone, 125.

t Sheppard's Touchstone, 149; Nicoll v. New York and Erie Railroad
Co., 12 New York, 121; People v. Brown, 1 Caines's Reports, 416; United
States v. Repentigny, 5 Wallace, 267; Dewey v. Williams, 40 New Hampshire, 222; Hooper v. Cummings, 45 Maine, 359; Southard v. Central Railroad Co., 2 Dutcher, 13.

SCHULENBERG V.

HARRIMAN.

[Sup Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as an act directing the possession and appropriation of
the property, or that it be offered for sale or settlement.
At common law the sovereign could not make an entry in
person, and, therefore, an office-found was necessary to determine the estate, but, as said by this court in a late case,
"the mode of asserting or of resuming the forfeited grant
is subject to the legislative authority of the government. It
may be after judicial investigation, or by taking possession
directly under the authority of the government without
these preliminary proceedings."* In the present case no
action has been taken either by legislation or judicial proceedings to enforce a forfeiture of the estate granted by the
acts of 1856 and 1864. The title remains, therefore, in the
State as completely as it existed on the day when the title
by location of the route of the railroad acquired precision
and became attached to the adjoining alternate sections.
3. The title to the land remaining in the State the lumber
cut upon the land belonged to the State. Whilst the timber
was standing it constituted a part of the realty; being severed from the soil its character was changed; it became
personalty, but its title was not affected; it continued as
previously the property of the owner of the land, and could
be pursued wherever it was carried. All the remedies were
open to the owner which the law affords in other cases of
the wrongful removal or conversion of personal property.
4. The logs cut from the lands of the State without license,
having been intermingled by the plaintiffs with logs cut
from other lands, so as not to be distinguishable, the owner
was entitled, under the legislation of Minnesota, and the
decisions of her courts, to replevy from the whole mass an
amount equal to those cut by the plaintiffs, and the stipulation of the parties provides that the seizure by the defendant, so far as the manner of making the same is concerned,
was as valid and legal in all respects as though made under
and by virtue of legal process. The- remedy thus afforded
United States v. Repentigny, 5 Wallace, 211, 268; and see Finch v.
Riseley, Popham, 53.

Oct. 1874.]

65

CLINKENBEARD V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

by the law of Minnesota is eminently just in its operation,
and is less severe than that which the common law would
authorize.
We perceive no error in the rulings of the court below,
and the judgment is, therefore,

AfPIRmED.

OLINKENBEARD ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
On debt upon a distiller's bond to charge him with non-payment of a capacity-tax assessed for an entire month, the distiller may properly show,
that without any fault of his own, and that by the omission of the government itself, he was prevented from operating his distillery for the
first four days for which he was taxed, and that his distillery was inactive from an accident, and in charge of a government officer, as prescribed by law, for four other days. A capacity-tax assessed during
such eight days is erroneously assessed.
Although the act of Congress of July 13th, 1866, declares that no suit
shall be maintained for the recovery of any tax erroneously or illegally
assessed, until an appeal first be made to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue and a decision had, yet this does not prevent the defendant in
a suit brought by the government from setting up as a defence the erroneous assessment or illegality of the tax.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
The internal revenue law of July 20th, 1868,* in its twentieth section, which relates to distillers, after enacting that
the assessor shall determine each mouth whether the distiller
has accounted for all the spirits produced, and directing how
the quantity shall be determined, thus enacts:
C"In

case the return of the distiller shall have been less

than the quantity thus ascertained, the distiller, or other person
liable, shall be assessed for such deficiency at the rate of fifty
cents for every proof gallon, together with the special tax of 84
for every cask of forty proof gallons.
"But in no case shall the quantity of spirits returned by the
15 Stat. at Large, 133.
VOL. XXI.

5

