DoE

V. CHILDRESS.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

case of Bailey, Assignee, v. Glover,* to the policy of equal distribution, namely, the necessity of speedy disposition of the
bankrupt's assets. In that case this same provision for limiting the time for appeals is referred to as evidence of that
policy.
There is in the statute, as printed in the Statutes at Large,
what seems to us a manifest clerical error, or verbal mistake
in the use of words "defeated party" as one to be notified
of the appeal, and the error is also found in the Revised
Statutes, section 4981. The "defeated party in equity" is
generally the one who takes the appeal, and does not, therefore, require notice, but must give it. We can see no use
or sense in that word in that connection. The purpose of
the act, the remainder of the section in which the word is
used, and the impossibility of any other reasonable meaning,
requires that the word should be construed "opposite party,"
or '' successful party," or " adverse party ;" in a word, the
party who does not appeal in an equity suit, and who is interested to oppose the appeal.
In any event, the party to be notified in this case was the
assignee, Bailey, and he was not notified within the time
which the statute makes a condition of the right of appeal,
and the decree of the District Court dismissing it is
AFFIRMED.

DoE, v. CHILDRESS.
Under the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act-which enacts that the
register shall convey to the assignee all the estate, real and personal, of
the bankrupt, and that such assignment shall relate back to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and thereupon by operation of law, that the title to all such property and estate ... shall vest
in the said assignee, although the same is then attached on mesne pro* Supra, p. 342.

,')et. 1874.]

DoB v.

CHILDRESS.

Statement of the case.
cess as the property of the debtor, "and shall dissolve any such attachment made within four months next preceding the commencement of said
proceedings"-an attachment which, under State laws, is a valid lien,
laid more than four months previously to the proceedings in bankruptcy
begun, is not dissolved by the transfer to the assignee in bankruptcy.
And if such assignee do not intervene (which in any such case he may
do), and have the attachment dissolved, or the cause transferred to the
Federal court sitting in bankruptcy, but, on the contrary, allow the
property to be sold under judgment in the proceedings in attachment,
the purchaser, in a case free from fraud, will hold against him; that is
to say, the assignee cannot attack collaterally such purchaser's title.

E.ROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of Ten-

nessee.
Doe, lessee of Vaillant, assignee of Montgomery, a bankrupt, brought ejectment against Childress to recover land in
Tennessee.
The question was this:
When attachment proceedings are regularly commenced,
a levy made, and the property is in the possession of the
sheriff before the filing of petition in bankruptcy ;-when
there is no stay of proceedings or other measures in the
bankrupt court to arrest the suit in the State court, there
being no fraud, a sale is had under the judgment of the State
court, a deed is given by the sheriff, and possession taken
under it-can the title acquired under such sale be attacked
by the assignee collaterally in a suit at law?
In other words, can the assignee allege that under these
circumstances the State court had no jurisdiction to proceed
in the action after an adjudication in bankruptcy, and that
no title passed to the purchaser under the judgment of the
State court?
The defendant's title rested upon a purchase under two
decrees in the Court of Chancery of the State of Tennessee.
Proceedings in the suit were commenced by attachment on
the 15th and 27th days of April, 1867. Decrees in them were
obtained in April and June, 1868, and on the 17th of September, 1868, sales were made under the decrees. The purchaser then entered into possession, and the defendant under
him now claimed title and possession by virtue of that pur-

DoE v. CHILDRESS.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

chase. By the laws of Tennessee the levy of an attachment
gives a specific lien in the property described in them.*
Montgomery had filed his petition to be declared a bankrupt on the 18th of February, 1868. This was ten months
after the attachment proceedings had been commenced, and
four months before the decrees were obtained in those suits,
and seven months before the sale took place under those
decrees.
He was adjudged a bankrupt on the 27th of February,
1868. This again was about seven months before the sale
under State decrees took place, and ten months after the
actual commencement of the attachment proceedings in the
State court.
The fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act enacts that
the register shall convey to the assignee all the estate, real
and personal, of the bankrupt. The section thus proceeds:
"And such assignment shall relate back to the commencement
of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and thereupon, by operation
of law, the title to all such property and estate shall vest in said
assignee, although the same is then attached on mesne process
as the property of the debtor, and shall dissolve any such attachment made within four months next preceding the commencement of said proceedings."
The court below held that the attachment was not dissolved, and gave judgment for the defendant. Thereupon
the plaintiff brought the case here.
Mr. Henry Cooper, for the plaintiff in error. No opposing
counsel.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The Tennessee Court of Chancery having jurisdiction of
the subject of the proceeding in the attachment suits, no
defence being interposed by the assignee, in the State court,
and no measures having been taken to arrest their proceedings or to transfer them to the bankrupt court (if power to
* See section 3507, Statutes of Tennessee, 1871, and notes of numerous
cases; 2 Thompson & Steger's Statutes, 1463-4.

Oct. 1874.

DoE v. CRILDRESS.
Opinion of the court.

take such steps existed), and there being no fraud proven or
alleged, we are of the opinion that a good title was obtained
under the decree of sale made in the State court.
Under the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act the
title pendente lite is transferred by operation of law from the
bankrupt to the assignee in bankruptcy. The conveyance
of the register operates as would, under ordinary circumstances, the deed of a person having the title, with two differences-first, it relates back to the commencement of the
bankruptcy proceeding; secondly, the register's conveyance
dissolves any attachment that has been made within four
months previous to the commencement of bankrupt proceedings. Neither of these differences are material in the
present case. The attachments here had been made and
levied more than four months previous to the commencement of the bankrupt proceedings on the 18th day of February, 1868, to wit, in the month of April, 1867, and no
change had taken place in the estate between the filing the
petition in bankruptcy and the conveyance by the register.
The triansfer of his real estate by a debtor against whom
an attachment has been issued, and before judgment or decree, whether by his own act, or by operation of law, cannot
impair or invalidate the title of a purchaser under such decree or judgment. It is evident that unless this is so an
attachment suit could never be invoked for the collection of
a debt. The debtor need only wait uintil judgment is about
to be entered, then make a conveyance of the property
attached, and the virtue of the proceeding is at an end.
The authorities so declare. A reference to some of the authorities in Tennessee will be sufficient.
The statute of that State provides as follows:
"Any transfer, sale, or assignment made after the filing of an
attachment bill in chancery, or after the suing out of an attachment at law of property mentioned in the bill of attachment as
against the plaintiff, shall be inoperative and void."*
* Section 3507, 2 Statutes, Thompson & Steger; see Snell v. Allen, 1
Swan, 208, 211; Green v. Shaver, 3 Humphrey, 139, 141; Perkins v. l~orvell, 6 Id. 151; Boggess v. Gamble, 3 Coldwell, 148, 154.

DOE v. CHILDRESS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The object of this statute (says the court) was to prevent
the debtor from evading the attachment after the bill had
been filed, and before the levy, by sale or transfer of his
estate.* See Drake on Attachments,t that this is the general
rule of law.
The Bankrupt Act is based upon this theory. Thus the
enactment that the register's conveyance shall work a dissolution of an attachment made within four months next
preceding the commencement of the bankrupt proceedings,
is a virtual enactment that where the attachment is made
more than four months before the commencement of the
bankrupt proceeding, it shall not be dissolved, but shall remain of force. If all attachments were intended to be dissolved, it would be quite idle to declare that those made
within four months should be dissolved.
Accordingly, it has been held many times in the various
courts of the country, that as to the class of attachments not
within the four months' limitation, the bankruptcy proceedings do not work their dissolution; that the debtor's title
passes to the assignee, subject to the creditor's lien acquired
by virtue of the attachment, and that a judgment to be enforced against the property attached, but not against the
person of the debtor or any other property, may be entered,
although a discharge has been granted, and is pleaded in
bar of the action. N~umerous cases to this effect are collected in Bump on Bankruptcy.1
We think this is a sound exposition of the statute.
Where the power of a State court to proceed in a suit is
subject to be impeached, it cannot be done except upon an
intervention by the assignee, who shall state the facts and
* Burroughs v. Brooks, 3 Head, 392; Lacey v. Moore, 6 Coldwell, 348;
Sharp v. Hunter, 7 Id. 389.
t Section 221.
$ Page 366, where the author cites Bates v. Tappan, 3 Bankrupt Register,
159; S. C., 99 Massachusetts, 376; Bowman v. Harding, 4 Bankrupt Register, 5; S. C., 56 Maine, 559; Samson v. Burton, 4 Bankrupt Register, 1 ;
Leighton v. Kelsey, 4 Id. 155; S. C., 57 Maine, 85; Perry v. Somerby, Ib.
652; Stoddard v. Locke, 43 Vermont, 574; Daggett v. Cook, 87 Connecticut, 341.

Oct. 187/4.]

DoE v.

CHILDRESN.

Opinion of the court.

make the proof necessary to terminate such jurisdiction,
This rule gains whether the four months' principle is applicable or whether it is not applicable.
In Kent v. .Downing,* the court say: "The assignee may
on his own motion be made a party, if for no other reason
than to have it properly made known to the court that the
defendant has become bankrupt. He has also a right to
move to dismiss the attachment. The adjudication of bankruptcy must be made known to the court in some authentic
mode. It may be denied, and the State court cannot take
notice of the judgment of other courts by intuition. They
must be brought to the notice of the court, and this cannot
be done without parties."
In Gibson v. Green,t the same principle is stated.
The application of these principles gives a ready solution
of the question presented in the case before us. The issuing of the attachments against the property of Montgomery
took place more than four months prior to the filing of his
petition in bankruptcy. By the law of Tennessee the levy
of the attachments gave a specific lien upon the property
described in them.
If the assignee had intervened in the suit he would have
been entitled to the property or its proceeds, subject to this
lien. He did not, however, intervene or take any measures
in the case. He allowed the property to be sold under the
judgments in the attachment suits, and those under whom
the defendant claims purchased it, obtaining a perfect title
to the same. The plaintiff has no title upon which he can
recover, and the judgment of the Circuit Court to that effect
AyFiRMED.
must be
* 44 Georgia, 116.

t 45 Mississippi, 209; see also Johnson v. Bishop, 1 Woolvorth, 824,
opinion by Justice Miller.

