WOOD v. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

question was not necessarily involved in the determination
of the cause.
It follows that this writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

WOOD V.

BAILEY, ASSIGNEE.

1. Under the eighth section of the Bankrupt Act, which enacts that "no appeal shall be allowed in any case from the District to the Circuit Court unless
it is claimed and notice given thereof, . . . to the assignee . . . or to the defeated [sic] party in equity, within ten days after tla entry ofthe decree ordecision

appealedfrom," the omission to give the notice within the ten days specified is fatal to the appeal.
2. The word "defeated," in the above quotation, which, as to that word, follows both the Statutes at Large and the Revised Statutes, should be construed as meaning the "opposite," " adverse," or "s u ccessf ul" party.
APPEAL from an order of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Alabama, dismissing an appeal which one
Wood sought to prosecute from a decree of the District
Court sitting in bankruptcy.
Bailey, assignee in bankruptcy of a bankrupt, filed a bill
in chancery in the District Court against Wood, Whitfield,
and others, in regard to a mortgage held by Wood, and a
supposed vendor's lien claimed by the other parties, on lands
owned by the bankrupt and passing to the assignee by the
assignment in bankruptcy. The object of the bill was to contest the validity of these liens, and to have a sale of the land
discharged of the claims asserted by the defendants. A subpcnna issued on the bill and was served on all the defendants.
They appeared, demurred, and answered in regular course
of chancery procedure. Testimony was taken and a final
decree rendered in the District Court declaring all the claims
of the defendants void as liens on the land. This decree was
filed in the court on the 21st day of June, 1871, though dated
on the first day of that month. The record showed notices
of appeal addressed to the clerk of the District Court by the
counsel for Wood and by the counsel for Whitfield, both of

Oct. 1874.]

WOOD

v. BAIL.EY.

Opinion of the court.

which were dated and filed in the District Court on the said
21st of June; the day the decree was filed. But no notice
of this appeal was given to Bailey the assignee, until October
28th; 1871.
Upon motion of the appellee this appeal was dismissed in
the Circuit Court for want of notice in time to the assignee.
The question now was whether it was rightly dismissed for
such cause.
The eighth section of the Bankrupt Act which provides.
for this class of appeals declares that" No appeal shall be allowed in any case from the District to,
the Circuit Court unless it is claimed and notice given thereof
to the clerk of the District Court, to be entered with the record
of the proceedings, ana also to the assignee or creditor, as the
case may be, or to the defeated [sic] party in equity, within ten
days after the entry of the decree or decision appealedfrom."*
.Mr. T. H1. Price,for the appellant; Mr. P. Phillips, contra..
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court
We concur with the judge of the Circuit Court, that for
want of service of notice of the appeal on Bailey, the assignee,.
within ten days of the time of filing the decree in the District
Court, the appeal must be disallowed.
The language of the statute is very strong and admits of
no other interpretation. No appeal shall be allowed in any
case from the District to the Circuit Court, unless it is claimed
and notice given to the clerk, and also to the other party,
within ten days after the entry of the decree or decision appealed from.
The failure to give notice to the other party within the
ten days, whether claimant or assignee, is equally fatal to
the appeal, as the failure to give the notice to the clerk that
the appeal is claimed.
This is in harmony with the policy of the Bankrupt law,
second only in importance, as we have recently said in the
14 Stat. at Large, 520.
voL. XXI.

41

DoE

V. CHILDRESS.

[Sup. Ot.

Syllabus.

case of Bailey, Assignee, v. Glover,* to the policy of equal distribution, namely, the necessity of speedy disposition of the
bankrupt's assets. In that case this same provision for limiting the time for appeals is referred to as evidence of that
policy.
There is in the statute, as printed in the Statutes at Large,
what seems to us a manifest clerical error, or verbal mistake
in the use of words "defeated party" as one to be notified
of the appeal, and the error is also found in the Revised
Statutes, section 4981. The "defeated party in equity" is
generally the one who takes the appeal, and does not, therefore, require notice, but must give it. We can see no use
or sense in that word in that connection. The purpose of
the act, the remainder of the section in which the word is
used, and the impossibility of any other reasonable meaning,
requires that the word should be construed "opposite party,"
or '' successful party," or " adverse party ;" in a word, the
party who does not appeal in an equity suit, and who is interested to oppose the appeal.
In any event, the party to be notified in this case was the
assignee, Bailey, and he was not notified within the time
which the statute makes a condition of the right of appeal,
and the decree of the District Court dismissing it is
AFFIRMED.

DoE, v. CHILDRESS.
Under the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act-which enacts that the
register shall convey to the assignee all the estate, real and personal, of
the bankrupt, and that such assignment shall relate back to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and thereupon by operation of law, that the title to all such property and estate ... shall vest
in the said assignee, although the same is then attached on mesne pro* Supra, p. 342.

