BUTLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

This case is a very unsatisfactory one. It appears to have
regarded the stipulation as a statute of limitations, which it
clearly was not, and it leaves us in doubt whether the decision was not rested on the ground that there was no sufficient evidence of a contract. The case cited from 36
Georgia, 532, has no relation to the question before us. It
has reference to the inquiry, what is sufficient proof of an
agreement between the shipper and the carrier, an inquiry
that does not arise in the present case, for the demurrer admits an express agreement.
Our conclusion, then, founded upon the analogous decisions of courts, as well as upon sound reason, is that the
express agreement between the parties averred in the plea
was a reasonable one, and hence that it was not against the
policy of the law. It purported to relieve the defendants
from no part of the obligations of a common carrier. They
were bound to the same diligence, fidelity, and care as they
would have been required to exercise if no such agreement
had been made. All that the stipulation required was that
the shipper, in case the package was lost or damaged, should
assert his claim in season to enable the defendants to ascertain the facts; in other words, that he should assert it within
ninety days. It follows that the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the plaintiff's demurrer to the plea.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings,
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

BUTLER V. UNITED STATES.
A person who signs, as surety, a printed form of government bond, already
signed by another as principal, but the spaces in which for names, dates,
amounts, &c., remain blank, and who then gives it to the person who
has signed as principal, in order that he may fill the blanks with a sum
agreed on between the two parties as the sum to be put there, and with
the names of two sureties who shall each be worth another sum agreed

Oct. 1874.]

BUTLER V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.
on, and then have those two persons sign it, makes such person signing
as principal his agent to fill up the blanks and procure the sureties, and
if such person fraudulently fill up the blanks with a larger sum than.
that agreed on between the two persons and have the names of worthless
sureties inserted, and such sureties to sign the bond, and the bond thus.
filled up and signed be delivered by the principal to the government,
who accepts it in the belief that it has been properly executed, the party
so wronged cannot, on suit on the bond, again set up the private understandings which he had with the principal.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Tennessee.
Debt on a joint and several internal-revenue bond, executed by Emory, as principal, and by Butler, Sawyer, and
Choppin as sureties, the bond on oyer appearing to be in
the sum of $15,000.
Butler pleaded that at the time he signed and affixed his
seal to the bond, it was a mere printed form, with blank
spaces for the names, dates, and amounts to be inserted
therein; that the blanks were not filled, and there was no.
signature thereto, except Emory's; that Emory promised, if
Butler would sign the bond, he, Emory, would fill up the
blanks with the sum of $4000, and would procure two additional sureties in the District of Columbia, each of whom
was to be worth $5000; and that he, Butler, signed the bond
and delivered it to Emory with the understanding and agreement that the bond was otherwise not to be binding on him,
Butler, nor delivered to the United States, or to any of its
agents or officers, but was to be returned to him; that
Emory did not so fill up the bond, but on the contrary,
falsely and fraudulently filled it up with the sum of $15,000,
and with the names of Sawyer and Choppin, neither of whom
resided in the District of Columbia, and neither of whom
was worth $5000, but, on the contrary, both of whom were
wholly insolvent and worthless; that Emory accordingly
obtained the signature of him, Butler, by false and fraudulent representations; that the bond was therefore not the
bond of him, Butler, when made, and that he had never
afterward ratified or acknowledged its validity.

VOL. XXI.

1

BUTLER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The Circuit Court, relying on Dair v. United States,* ruled
that this was no defence to the action. The defendant excepted and brought this writ of error.
In the case of Dair v. Vnited States, just mentioned, two
persons, as sureties, signed a bond to the government at the
instance of a third person, who had signed it as principal;
the two signing as sureties doing so upon the condition that
the instrument was not to be 'delivered to the government
until it should have been executed by a third person named,
as surety; and then placing it in the hands of the person
who had signed it as principal, who without the performance
of the condition and without the consent of the two persons
signing as sureties, delivered the bond to the government;
the bond being regular on its face, and the government
having had no notice of the condition; but where, on suit
by the United States, the parties who bad signed as sureties
were held by this court bound.
1Messrs. S. Shellabargerand J. M. Wilson, for the plaintfif
in
error, sought to distinguish this case from Dair v. United
States, on the ground that in that case the bond was complete in every part at the signing.
Mr. C. f. Rill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra, argued
that this difference was one of circumstance only, and that
in principle the two cases were undistinguishable.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We cannot distinguish this case in principle from Dair v.
United Slates. The printed form, with its blank spaces, was
signed by Butler and delivered to Emory, with authority to
fill the blanks and perfect the instrument as a bond to secure
his faithful service in the office of collector of internal revenue. He was also authorized to present it when perfected
to the proper officer of the government for approval and acceptance. If accepted, it was expected that he would at
* 16 Wallace, 1.

Oct. 1874.]

BUTLER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

once be permitted to enter upon the performance of the
duties of the office to which it referred.
It is true that, according to the plea, this authority was
accompanied by certain private understandings between the
parties intended to limit its operations, but it was apparently
unqualified. Every blank space in the form was open. To
all appearances any sum that should be required by the government might be designated as the penalty, and the names
of any persons signing as co-sureties might be inserted in the
space left for that purpose. It was easy to have limited this
authority by filling the blanks, and the filling of any one was
a limitation to that extent. By inserting in the appropriate
places the amount of the penalty or the names of the sureties or their residences, Butler could have taken away from
Emory the power to bind him otherwise than as thus specified. This, however, he did not do. Instead, he relied upon
the good faith of Emory, and clothed him with apparent
power to fill all the blanks in the paper signed, in such appropriate manner as might be necessary to convert it into a
bond that would be accepted by the government as security
for the performance of his contemplated official duties. It
is not pretended that the acts of Emory are beyond the scope
of his apparent authority. The bond was accepted in the
belief that it had been properly executed. There is no claim
that the officer who accepted it had any notice of the private
agreements. He acted in good faith, and the question now
is, which of two innocent parties shall suffer. The doctrine
of Dair's case is that it must be Butler, because he confided
in Emory and the government did not. He is in law and
equity estopped by his acts from claiming, as against the
government, the benefit of his private instructions to his
agent.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

