196

GARRISON

V. CITY

OF NEW Yonx.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

fact of his retaining it, to show it was not intended to be
absolute. This will appear from an examination of a few
of the strongest cases on each side of the question."
He then goes into an examination of the decided cases, for
which it is only necessary to refer to the case itself.*
The defence rests upon the alleged non-delivery by Mr.
Adams of the deed of August 13th, 1861, to Mrs. Adams,
or for her benefit. We have referred at length to the authorities which show that as matter of law the deed was
sufficiently delivered, and that it is the duty of the court to
establish the trust.
We think that the decree of the court below was well
made, and that it should be
AFFIRMED.

GARRISON v. THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
1. An act of the legislature of the State of New York, passed in 1871, in
relation to the widening and straightening of Broadway, in the city of
New York, authorizing the Supreme Court of the State to vacate an
order made in 1870 confirming the report of commissioners of estimate
and assessment respecting the property taken, from which order no appeal was allowable, if error, mistake, irregularity, or illegal acts appeared in the proceedings of the commissioners, or the assessments for
benefit or the awards for damage, or either of them, had been unfair
and unjust or inequitable or oppressive as respects the city or any person
affected thereby, and to refer the matter back to new commissioners to
amend or correct the report, or to make a new assessment, is not unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of contracts, or depriving a person of a vested right without due process of law.
2. In the proceeding to condemn property for public use, there is nothing in
the nature of a contract between the owner and the State, or the corporation which the State in virtue of her right of eminent domain authorizes to take the property; all that the constitution of the State or
of the United States or justice requiring in such cases being that a just
compensation shall be made to the owner; his property can then be
taken without his assent.
That the deed in question created a trust, executed and complete, which
will be enforced by the courts; see, also, Neves v. Scott, 9 Howard, 196;
Same case, 13 Id. 271.

Oct. 1874.]

GARRISON V. CITY

OF NSw YoRK.19

1

197

Statement of the case.
3. The proceeding to ascertain the compensation to be made to the owner
of property taken for public use is in the nature of an inquest on the
part of the State and is under her control; and to secure a just estimate
of the compensation to be made she can vacate or authorize the vacation of any inquest taken by her direction where the proceeding has
been irregularly or fraudulently conducted, or in which error has intervened, and order a new inquest, provided such methods of procedure
be observed as will secure a fair hearing from the parties interested in
the property. Until the property is actually taken and the compensation is made or provided, the power of the State over the matter is not
ended.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
On the 17th of May, 1869, the legislature of the State of
New York passed an act* providing for the widening and
straightening of Broadway, in the city of New York, between Thirty-fourth and Fifty-ninth Streets. It required the
commissioners of the Central Park of the city, within four
months after its passage, to lay out and establish the lines
of the street, so as to widen and straighten it, and to cause
certificates and maps of the location of the new lines to be
filed in certain public offices of the city, and declared that
such certificates and maps should be final and conclusive as
to the extent and boundaries of the proposed improvement;
and that the part of Broadway thus laid out and established
should be one of the public streets of the city in like manner
and with the same effect as if it had been so laid out on the
plan of the city under an act passed in 1807.t It also provided that any part of the street not embraced within the
new lines should be closed, and that all acts of the legislature
then in force relating to the opening, widening, and improving of
streets in the city should apply to that part of Broadway thus
laid out, and to all proceedings under the act so far as they were
applicable.
The act further required the corporation counsel, when
* Entitled "1An act to alter the map or plan of the city of New York,
and to carry the alterations into effect."
j- Entitled "An act relative to improvements touching the laying out of
streets and roads in the city of New York, and for other purposes."

198

GARRISON V. CiTY oF NEw

YoRK.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the commissioners had filed their maps and certificates, to
take the proper steps on behalf of the city to acquire title
to the lands needed, and for that purpose to apply to the
Supreme Court, at ally special term thereof, for the appointment of commissioners of estimate and assessment, who
were authorized to assess upon the city such part of the expenses of the improvement as in their opinion would be
just and equitable, not exceeding one-third of the whole,
and to designate in their report, which was to be made within
eight months after their appointment, the time for the opening of the street.
The comnissioners thus appointed were required to make
a just and equitable estimate and assessment of the loss
and damage, if any, over and above the benefit and advantage, or of the benefit and advantage, if any, over and
above the loss and damage, as the case might be, to the
respective owners, lessees, occupants, or owners, and persons entitled to or interested in the lands and premises required, or affected by the proceedings, the assessment for
benefit and advantage to be confined within certain designated limits.
The act further provided that all awards to the city should
be placed by the chamberlain (the treasurer of the city) to
the credit of the sinking fund, and that all other awards
should be paid by him to the parties entitled thereto.
Under this act the measares authorized were taken, and
three commissioners of estimate and assessment were appointed by the Supreme Court, who made a report of their
proceedings, which was confirmed by order of the court on
the 28th of December, 1870.
The report included, among numerous other awards, an
award of $40,000 to one Garrison, as his damages for taking
a portion of a leasehold estate held by him on Broadway,
and it fixed the time for the actual opening of the new street
at the 31st of December, 1870.
At the time of the passage of the act of May 17th, 1869,
there was an act in force-an act, namely, of April 9th,
181,-regulating proceedings for opening or improving

Oct. 1874.]

GARRISON V. CITY OF NEW YORK.
Statement of the case.

streets in the city of New York, and which, therefore (unless modified, as perhaps it was, by a certain act of 1818),
by the provisions of the said act of 1869 was applicable to
the improvement authorized. This act, it was asserted, applied to the proceedings under the special act of 1869, in
the following particulars:
1st. In that it made the report of the commissioners of
estimate and assessment, when confirmed by the court, "final
and conclusive" upon all parties.
2d. In that it gave the corporation, on the confirmation
of the report, seizin in fee of the lands taken, with a right
of possession instanter without any suit or proceeding.
3d. In that it gave to each owner of land taken an absolute right to receive payment of the damages awarded to
him within four calendar months after the confirmation of
the report.
4th. In that in case of non-payment by the city within
that period, after application, it gave to each owner of land
taken a right to sue for and recover his damages with interest and costs, in any court of competent jurisdiction, and
made the act itself and the report of the commissioners, with
proof of the right and title of the plaintiff to the sum demanded, conclusive evidence in the action.
On the 27th of February, 1871, nearly two months after
the confirmation of the report, the legislature passed an act
authorizing an appeal from the order of confirmation on behalf of the city to be taken at any time within four~months
from the date of its entry. The act also provided that within
this period, notwithstanding the pendency of the appeal, a
motion might be made on behalf of the city to any justice
of the Supreme Court, at a special term or chambers, to vacate the order; and made it the duty of the court or justice
to hear the same, and declared that if it should appear that
there was any error, mistake, or irregularity, or illegal act
in the proceedings at any stage, or that the assessments for
benefit or the awards for damage, or either of them, had
been unfair and unjust, or inequitable and oppressive, as
respects the city or any person affected thereby, the court

200

GARRISON V.

CITY OF NEW YORK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

or justice should vacate the order of confirmation, whicb
should then be void, and refer the matter back to new commissioners, who should proceed to amend and correct the
report, or to make a new assessment, in whole or in part, as
the court or justice should direct.
Under this act, upon notice to the parties interested, a
motion was made on behalf of the city at a special term of
the Supreme Court to vacate the order. Upon this motion
affidavits were read and the parties were heard by counsel.
The court vacated the order of confirmation and appointed
new commissioners to amend and correct the report and
make a new award of damage and assessment. In its order
vacating the confirmation, and as a basis for the order, the
court declared that it appeared that there had been error,
mistake, irregularity, and illegal acts in the proceedings,
and that the assessments for benefit and the award for damages had been unfair, unjust, inequitable, and oppressive, as
respects the city and others.
On appeal from this order to the General Term,* by another party, to whom an award had also been made, the act
was declared not to impair the obligation of contracts, nor
to deprive any person of property without due process of
law, and to be constitutional.
On further appeal to the Court of Appeals, that court held
that independently of the act of 1871, the court had power
to set aside, on motion, an order confirming a report of commissioners, for irregularity, mistake, or fraud.t
In both courts the constitutionality of the act was discussed, and both courts held that the provision of the act
of 1813, that the report of the commissioners, when confirmed by the Supreme Court, shall "be final and conclusive," had reference only to an appeal from the order of confirmation, not to a motion to set it aside.
The present action was brought by Garrison against the
city to recover the award of $40,000 made to him by the
* Matter of Widening Broadway, 61 Barbour, 483.
f Matter of Application of Mayor, 49 New York, 160.

Oct. 1874.]

GARRISON V. CITY OF NEW YORK.

201

Opinion of the court.

report of the first commissioners, the plaintiff alleging in
his complaint the ownership of the leasehold estate taken,
the proceedings for the estimate and assessment of damages, and the confirmation of the report by the Supreme
Court on the 28th of December, 1870, and insisting that
by force of the act of the legislature, and the laws therein
referred to, the proceedings were final and conclusive, and
that the fee of the property had vested in the city, and
the right to the payment of the award had vested in the
plaintiff.
In answer to this action the city set up the proceedings
by which the award was vacated, and insisted that the title
to the premises mentioned had not vested in the city, and
that the right to the amount awarded had not vested in the
plaintif.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred, on the ground that
the act of February 27th, 1871, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States in that it impaired the obligation of a contract, and to the constitution of the State, in
that it undertook to divest a vested right contrary to the
law of the land and without due process of law.
The court overruled the demurrer, sustained the plea as
a bar to the action, and gave judgment for the defendant.
To reverse that judgment the case was brought to this court,
and here the plaintiff renewed the same objections urged on
the demurrer in the court below.
Messrs. George Ticknor Curtis and J. C. Shaw, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. A. J. Vanderpool and .E. Delafteld Smith,
for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
To reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, the plaintiff contends that the act of the legislature of New York, of
February 27th, 1871, was repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States in that it impaired the obligation of a contract, and to the constitution of the State in that it under-

202

GARRISON V. CITY OF NEW YORK.

[Sup, Ct.

Opinion of the court.

took to divest a vested right contrary to the law of the land
and without due process of law.
As a basis for his argument he assumes that under the
statute of the State relating to the opening and improvement
of streets in the city of New York, passed in 1813, and
which is one of the laws referred to in the act of 1869, and
made applicable to the improvement authorized, the proceedings of the commissioners, when their report was confirmed by the Supreme Court, were so far final and conclusive of the right of the city to the property and of the
plaintiff to the award, that neither were subject to any legislative or judicial interference.
The same position here urged was relied upon in the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals of the State on the
appeal from the order vacating the confirmation taken by
one of the parties to whom an award had been rendered.*
And in both courts it was held that the provision in the
statute of 1813, which declares that the report of the commissioners of estimate and assessment, when confirmed by
the court, shall be "final and conclusive," only meant that
no appeal should lie from the order of confirmation to a
higher court, and that it did not preclude an application to
the court to vacate the order for mistake, irregularity, or
fraud in the proceedings; that the Supreme Court had power
to hear such motions in ordinary cases of judgments and
orders in suits there pending, and that no reason existed
against the possession or exercise of the power in cases of
this character. The provision in question, said the Court of
Appeals, "plainly never intended to give a vested interest
in a mistake and irregularity or fraud, whereby important
rights of property were acquired or lost. It had reference
simply to an appeal upon the merits, and is satisfied with
that. All judgments are liable to be set aside for fraud,
mistake, or irregularity, and a vested interest therein is subject to that liability."
* In the Matter of Widening Broadway, 61 Barbour, 483; and 49 New
York, 150.

Oct. 1874.]

GARRISON V. CITY OF NEW YoRx.

203

Opinion of the court.

The Supreme Court held that the act of 1871 was constitutional. The Court of Appeals held that, independent of
the act and without passing upon its validity, the Supreme
Court had authority to set aside the order upon the grounds
stated.
If the views of either of these courts be correct, they dispose of the questions in this case. And the construction of
the statute of the State by the Court of Appeals, and its decision as to the powers of the Supreme Court of the State to
correct or set aside its own judgments, upon application
within reasonable time, for mistake, irregularity, or fraud,
are conclusive upon us.
There is, therefore, no case presented in which it can be
justly contended that a contract has been impaired. It may
be doubted whether a judgment not founded upon an agreement, express or implied, is a contract within the meaning
of the constitutional prohibition. It is sometimes called by
text-writers a contract of record, because it establishes a
legal obligation to pay the amount recovered, and, by fiction
of law, where there is a legal obligation to pay a promise to
pay is implied. It is upon this principle, says Chitty, that
an action in form ex contractu will lie on a judgment of a
court of record.* But it is not perceived how this fiction
can convert the result of a proceeding, not founded upon an
agreement express or implied, but upon a transaction wanting the assent of the parties, into a contract within the
meaning" of the clause of the Federal Constitution which
forbids any legislation impairing its obligation. The purpose of the constitutional prohibition was the maintenance
of good faith in the stipulations of parties against any State
interference. If no assent be given to a transaction no faith
is pledged in respect to it, and there would seem in such
case to be no room for the operation of the prohibition.
In the proceeding to condemn the property of the plaintiff
for a public street, there was nothing in the nature of a contract between him and the city. The State, in virtue of her
* Chitty on Contracts, Perkins's edition, 87.

GARRISON V. CITY OF NEW YORK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

right of eminent domain, had authorized the city to take his
property for a public purpose, upon making to him just
compensation. All that the constitution or justice required
was that a just compensation should be made to him, and
his property would then be taken whether or not he assented
to the measure.
The proceeding to ascertain the benefits or losses which
will accrue to the owner of property when taken for public
use, and thus the compensation to be made to him, is in the
nature of an inquest on the part of the State, and is necessarily under her control. It is her duty to see that the estimates made are just, not merely to the individual whose
property is taken, but to the public which is to pay for it.
And she can to that end vacate or authorize the vacation of
any inquest taken by her direction, to ascertain particular
facts for her guidance, where the proceeding has been
irregularly or fraudulently conducted, or in which error has
intervened, and order a new inquest, provided such methods
of procedure be observed as will secure a fair hearing from
the parties interested in the property. Nor do we perceive
how this power of the State can be affected by the fact that
she makes the finding of the commissioners upon the inquest
subject to the approval of one of her courts. That is but
one of the modes which she may adopt to prevent error and
imposition in the proceedings. There is certainly nothing
in the fact that an appeal is not allowed from the action of
the court in such cases, which precludes a resort to other
methods for the correction of the finding where irregularity,
mistake, or fraud has intervened.
Until the property is actually taken, and the compensation
is made or provided, the power of the State over the matter
is not ended. Any declaration in the statute that the title
will vest at a particular time, must be construed in subordination to the constitution, which requires, except in cases
of emergency admitting of no delay, the payment of the
compensation, or provision for its payment, to precede the
taking, or, at least, to be concurrent with it. The statute
of 1818 would also seem so far to modify the act of 1813 as

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Syllabus.

to require a formal acceptance of the land on the part of the
corporation before the title can vest.*
The objection to the act of 1871, that it impairs the vested
rights of the plaintif, and is, therefore, repugnant to the
constitution of the State, is already disposed of by 'what we
have said upon the first objection. There is no such vested
right in a judgment, in the party in whose favor it is renthe
dered, as to preclude its re-examination and vacation "in
ordinary modes provided by law, even though an appeal
from it may not be allowed; and the award of the commissioners, even when approved by the court, possesses no
greater sanctity.

JUDGMENT

LITTLEFIELD

V.

AFFIRMED.

PEtRY.

1. Where one instrument, duly recorded in the Patent Office, contains in unmistakable language, an absolute conveyance by a patentee of his patent
and inventions described (in this case applications of a principle of
heating furnaces for houses, heating stoves, steam boilers, &c.), and all
improvements thereon, within and throughout certain States, and an
agreement by the assignee to pay a royalty on all patented articles sold,
with a clause of forfeiture in case of non-payment, or neglect, after due
notice, to make and sell the patented articles to the extent of a reasonable demand therefor, the grantee will not, by an agreement supplementary to such assignment and of even date but not recorded, be reduced into a mere licensee as respects a right to sue in the Federal courts,
for infringement within the assigned territory, by the fact that in the
supplementary agreement the parties declare that nothing in the grant
shall give the assignee the right to apply the principle of the invention
to one special purpose (in this case to the heating of several rooms in a
house by furnaces erected in the cellar), "the same being intended to be
reserved" by the patentee. And this is so, although the supplementary
and unrecorded agreement be referred to in the recorded one. The reservation will be regarded as the grant back of a mere license from the
assignee to the patentee.
2. Such grantee, or one claiming under him, may accordingly, as assignee,
under the Patent Acts, sue in the Federal courts to prevent an infringement upon his right.
* Strang v. New York Rubber Co., I Sweeny, 86, 87.

