Oct. 1874.]

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.
Syllabus.

the colonization laws of Mexico; or it may have been previously granted to other parties by the Mexican government;
or it may have been subsequently acquired by that government previous to the cession, or by our government subsequently. Whatever the reasons the confirmation covered
nothing and protected nothing beyond the claim asserted.
After the full and elaborate consideration which has been,'
heretofore given in this court, in the numerous cases bdfore
it, to Mexican grants in California, we do not feel called upon
to say more as to the effect of a confirmation of claims under
them. Every conceivable point respecting these grants, their
validity, their extent, and the operation of decrees confirming
claims to land under them, has been frequently examined;
and the law upon these subjects has been repeated even to

wearisomeness.

JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.
1. A pier erected in the navigable water of the Mississippi River for the
sole use of the riparian owner, as part of a boom for saw-logs, without
license or authority of any kind, except such as may arise from his ownership of the adjacent shore, is an unlawful structure, and the owner is
liable for the sinking of a barge run against it in the night.
2. Such a structure differs very materially from wharves, piers, and others
of like character, made to facilitate and aid navigation, and generally
regulated by city or town ordinances, or by statutes of the State, or
other competent authority.
3: They also have a very different standing in the courts from piers built
for railroad bridges across navigable streams, which are authorized by
acts of Congress or statutes of the States.
4. A structure such as that above described, in the first paragraph of the
syllabus, and which was under consideration in the present case, held
not to be sustained by any of these considerations.
5. A constant and familiar acquaintance with the towns, banks, trees, &c.,
and the relation of the channel to them, and of the snags, sand-bars,
sunken barges, and other dangers of the river as they may arise, is essential to the character of a pilot on the navigable rivers of the interior;
this class of pilots being selected, examined, and licensed for their knowledge of the topography of the streams on which they are employed, and

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.

[Sup. C2t.

General statement of the case.
not like ocean pilots, chiefly for their knowledge of navigation and of
charts, and for their capacity to understand and follow the compass,
take reckonings, make observations, &c.
6. Hence a pilot who, though engaged for many years in navigating a part
of the Mississippi, had not made a trip over that part for fifteen months
previously to one which he was now making, and from ignorance of its
existence ran his vessel against a pier which had been built in the river
since he had last gone up or down it-was held to be in fault for want
of knowledge of the pier. He was also held in fault for hugging, in
a dark night, the shore near where he knew the mill and boom of a
riparian owner were, and against a pier connected with which he struck,
when the current of the river would have carried him into safe and deep
water further out.
7. Both parties being in fault, the damages are to be divided, according to
the admiralty rule in such case.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.
The Union Packet Company filed a libel in admiralty, in
the District Court of Iowa, against Atlee, founded on the
sinking of a barge, for which he, Atlee, was charged to be
liable, on the ground that it was caused by a collision with
a stone pier built by him in the navigable part of the Mississippi River.
The pier was built in the winter of 1870-71; the collision
occurred in April, 1871.
The District Court was of opinion that Atlee had not exceeded his rights as a riparian owner in building the pier
where it was, in aid of his business as a lumberman and
owner of a saw-mill on the bank of the river, the pier being
part of a boom to retain his logs until needed for sawing.
But that court was further of opinion that by failing to have
a light on this pier during a dark night, Atlee was guilty of
a fault which rendered him in part responsible for the collision. As, however, the libellants were also found to be in
fault, for want of care and knowledge of this obstruction on
the part of the pilot, the District Court divided the damages,
and rendered a decree against Atlee for half of them.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that Atlee had no right
to erect the pier where it was, and, seeing no fault on the
part of the pilot, decreed the whole damage against Atlee.
He accordingly appealed to this court.
APPEAL

Obt. 1874.]

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

The appeal was submitted to this court on printed argument, November 26th,-1873, and the decree of the Circuit
Court was affirmed by an equal division of the court, which
was at that time composed of eight members. On application for rehearing, this decree of affirmance was set aside
and a reargument ordered on the question whether the
damages should be apportioned, both parties being in fault.
The reargument was accordingly made by briefs at this
term, the court being now full, and the whole matter reconsidered.
Mr. G. W. Me rary, for the apellant; Mr. -. & Howell,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER now delivered the judgment of the
court, stating, at the same time, the more particular and
necessary facts of the case.
No question is made of the jurisdiction of the District
Court sitting in admiralty.
. The testimony is very voluminous, as is also the discussion of it by counsel, but we are of opinion that the decision
of the case must rest mainly on undisputed facts, or those
about which there is but little conflict of testimony.
We shall assume the truth of the facts which we state as
the foundation of our judgment, without a reference to the
witnesses by which they are proved.
The pier against which libellants barge struck is about
thirty feet square, constructed of stone and timber, located
from one hundred and forty to fifty feet from the bank of
the river,'in water of the average depth of twelve feet at
that place, being ten feet even at a low stage of the water.
At low water this pillar is fifteen feet above the surface,
and a foot or two in very high water. A part of the distance
between the shore and the pier consists in low water of %
sand-bar. Seven hundred feet above the pier this sand-bar
tends to a point in the river made by the deposits from %
small stream called French Creek, and this point, in rel %tion to the general course of the river, projects somethi, g

392

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

further towards the centre of the channel than Atlee's pier
does.
Three-quarters of a mile above the pier is the levee, wharf,
or landing-place of the city of Fort Madison.
The appellant was the owner of extensive saw-mills, and
of the lands on which they were located, bounded by the
river at the point of the location of the pier for some distance above and below. He had built this pier, and another
below it, as parts of a boom for receiving and retaining the
logs necessary for use in his mill. Some kind of a boom
was necessary to enable him to keep these logs safely and
economically. :No question is made but that if he had a
right to build a pier at that place it was built with due skill
and care, and that he was blameless in every other respect,
unless the absence of a light at night was a fault.
The first question, then, to be decided is whether, in view
of these facts, appellant could lawfully build such a pier at
the precise spot where this was located.
The affirmative of this proposition was held by the learned
judge of the District Court, on the general ground of the
analogy which the present case bears to wharves, levees,
piers, and other landing-places on navigable rivers, which
are built and owned by individuals, and which are projected
into the navigable channel of the river farther than defendant's pier. The cases of Yates v. Milwaukee,* Dutton v.
Strong,t and The -Railroad Company v. Schurmeir,j are cited
in support of the proposition. Bridges, also, across these
rivers, with piers, which clearly render navigation more
hazardous, and which have by this court been held to be
lawful structures, are cited in aid of this view.ยง
What is the precise extent to which, in cities and towns,
these structures, owned by individuals, or by the town or
city corporations, may be permitted to occupy a portion of
what had been navigable water, and under what circumstances this may be done, it is not our present purpose to
1 7 Wallace, 272.
t 1 Black, 25.
10 Wallace, 497.
Gilman v. The City of Philadelphia, 3 Wallace, 713.

Oct. 1874.J

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

decide, nor to lay down any invariable rule on the subject.
It is sufficient to say that we do not consider the case before
us as falling within the principles on which that class of
cases has been decided.
In all incorporated towns or cities located on navigable
waters, there is in their charters, or in some general statute
of the State, either express or implied power for the establishment and regulation of these landings.

This may be done by the legislature of the State or by
authority expressly or impliedly delegated to the local municipal government. In all such cases there is exercised a
control over the location, erection, and use of such wharves
or landings. which will prevent their being made obstructions to navigation and standing menaces of danger.
The wharves or piers are generally located by lines bearing such relation to the shore and to the navigable water as
to present no danger to vessels using the river, and the control which the State exercises over them is such as to secure
at once their usefulness and their safety.
These structures are also allowable in a part of the water
which can be used for navigation, on the ground that they
are essential aids to navigation itself.
The navigable streams of the country would be of little
value for that purpose if they had no places where the vessels which they floated could land, with conveniences for
receiving and discharging cargo, for laying by safely until
this is done, and then departing with ease and security in
the further prosecution of their voyage. Wharves and piers
are as necessary almost to the successful use of the stream
in navigation as the vessels themselves, and are to be considered as an important part of the instrumentalities of this

branch of commerce. But to be of any value in this respect
they must reach so far into deep water as to enable the vessels used in ordinary navigation to float while they touch
them and are lashed to their sides. They must of necessity
occupy a part of the stream over which a vessel could float
if they were not there.
The structure of Mr. Atlee is sustained by none of these

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.

Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

considerations. It is built far away from a city or town, and
might as well be ten miles off as where it is, for any relation
it has to the business or commerce of the city of Fort Madison, or any subjection to the control of the city authorities.
His right to build this structure in the navigable channel of
the river is unsupported by any statute of the State, general
or specific, by any ordinance of a city or town, or by any
license from any authority whatever.
Nor is there any claim or pretence that this pier is in aid
of navigation. No vessel or water-craft is expected to land
there, nor are there any arrangements by which they can
land or be secured or fastened. The size of the pier, its
sharp corners, its elevation from the water, and its want of
connection with the shore, forbid any such use of it. It is
intended to receive nothing that floats but rafts, and no rafts
but such as its owner designs to keep there permanently for
his own use.
He rests his defence solely on the ground that at any
place where a riparian owner can make such a structure
useful to his personal pursuits or business, he can, without
license or special authority, and by virtue of this ownership,
and of his own convenience, project a pier or roadway into
the deep water of a navigable stream, provided he does it
with care, and leaves a large and sufficient passway of the
channel unobstructed.
No case known to us has sustained this proposition, and
we think its bare statement sufficient to show its unsoundness.
It is true that bridges, especially railroad bridges, exist
across the Mississippi and other navigable streams, which
present more dangerous impediments to navigation than this
pier of Mr. Atlee's, and that they have, so far as they have
been subjected to judicial consideration, been upheld. But
this has never been upon the ground of the absolute right
of the owners of the land on which they abutted to build
such structures. The builders have in every instance recognized the necessity of legislative permission by express
statute of the State, or of the United States, before they

Oct. 1874.]

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

ventured on such a proceeding. And the only question
that has ever been raised in this class of cases is, whether a
State could authorize such an invasion of the rights of persons engaged in navigating these streams. This court has
decided that in the absence of any legislation of Congress
on the subject, the State may authorize bridges across navigable streams by statutes so well guarded as to protect the
substantial rights of navigation.* But Mr. Atlee has no
such authority, and pretends to none.
We are of opinion that the pier against which libellant's
barge struck was placed by him in the navigable water of
the Mississippi River, without authority of law, and that he
is responsible for the damages to the barge and its contents.)
But the plaintiff has elected to bring his suit in an admiralty court, which has jurisdiction of the case, notwithstanding the concurrent right to sue at law. In this court the
course of proceeding is in many respects different and the
rules of decision are different. The mode of pleading is
different, the proceeding more summary and informal, and
neither party has a right to trial by jury. An important
difference as regards this case is the rule for estimating the
damages.
(In the common-law court the defendant must pay all the
damages or none. If there has been on the part of plaintiffs such carelessness or want of skill as the common law
would esteem to be contributory negligence, they can recover nothing. By the rule of the admiralty court, where
there has been such contributory negligence, or in other
words, when both have been in fault, the entire damages
resulting from the collision must be equally divided between
the parties. This rule of the admiralty commends itself
quite as favorably in its influence in securing practical justice as the other, and the plaintiff who has the selection of
the forum in which he will litigate, cannot complain of the
rule of that forum. )
It is not intended to say that the principles which deter* Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wallace, 713.

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mine the existence of mutual fault on which the damages
are divided in admiralty, are precisely the same as those
which establish contributory negligence at law that would
defeat the action. Each court has its own set of rules for
determining these questions, which may be in some respects
the same, but in others vary materially.
The district judge was of opinion in this case that the
libellant was in fault so as to require the application of the
admiralty rule, and on that point this court agrees with him.
The character of the skill and knowledge required of a
pilot in charge of a vessel on the rivers'of the country is
very different from that which enables a navigator to carry
his vessel safely on the ocean. In this latter case a knowledge of the rules of navigation, with charts which disclose
the places of hidden rocks, dangerous shores, or other dangers of the way, are the main elements of his knowledge
and skill, guided as he is in his course by the compass, by
the reckoning, and the observations Of the heavenly bodies,
obtained by the use of proper instruments. It is by these
he determines his locality and is made aware of the dangers of such locality if any exist. But the pilot of a river
steamer, like the harbor pilot, is selected for his personal
knowledge of the topography through which he steers his
vessel. In the long course of a thousand miles in one of
these rivers, he must be familiar with the appearance of the
shore on each side of the river as he goes along. Its banks,
towns, its landings, its houses and trees, and its openings
between trees, are all landmarks by which he steers his
vessel. The compass is of little use to him. He must know
where the navigable channel is, in its relation to all these
external objects, especially in the night. He must also be
familiar with all dangers that are permanently located in the
course of the river, as sand-bars, snags, sunken rocks or
trees, or abandoned vessels or barges. All this he must
know and remember and avoid. To do this he must be
constantly informed of changes in the current of the river,
of sand-bars newly made, of logs or snags, or other objects
newly presented, against which his vessel might be injured.

Oct. 1874.)

ATLEE V. PACKET COMPANY.

397

Opinion of the court.

In the active life and changes made by the hand of man or
the action of the elements in the path of his vessel, a year's
absence from the scene impairs his capacity, his skilled
knowledge, very seriously in the course of a long voyage.
H=e should make a few of the first "trips," as they are called,
after his return, in company with other pilots more recently
familiar with the river.
It may be said that this is exacting a very high order of
ability in a pilot. But when we consider the value of the
lives and property committed to their control, for in this
they are absolute masters, the high compensation they receive, and the care which Congress has taken to secure by
rigid and frequent examinations and renewal of licenses,
this very class of skill, we do not think we fix the standard
too high.
Any pilot who, during the. navigable season of the year
1870, was engaged in conveying vessels up and down the
Mississippi River past Fort Madison, would have known of
the existence of this pier and would have avoided it. Though
the pilot in this case had been many years engaged in navigating this part of the river, he had been absent for over a
year, and this was his first voyage in a period of about fifteen
months. He, therefore, did not know of the existence of
this pier, and ran against it.
Again, the natural current of the river, after striking the
little projection of the sand-bar below Fort Madison, is
towards the eastern shore, and away from the shore with
which this pier is connected. There was a large expanse of
deep water a hundred feet further out than where the vessel
ran which was safe, while there must always have been felt
to be more or less danger of striking the saw-logs or boom,
or some other matter belonging to Atlee's mill, by hugging
the shore at that point even before the pier was built. A
careful and prudent pilot in a dark night as this was would,
therefore, have taken the middle of the river, the.course of
its natural current, instead of tending inward towards the
shore after passing the projecting point of the sand-bar.
For these reasons we are of opinion that there was such

MICHAELS V. POST.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

want of know hdge and skill in the pilot, and such want of
care in his management of his vessel at that point, as to require the damages to be divided.
As there is no exception to the report of the commissioner
of the District Court-to whom the question of damages
was referred-based on this view, the decree of the Circuit
Court is REVERSED, with instructions to render a decree on

the basis of that report for HALF THE DAMAGES which he
found the libellant to have suffered.

MICHAELS ET AL. V. POST, ASSIGNEE.
1. 'Where one creditor has been induced by fraudulent representations ot
another creditor, who wishes to get into his own hands all the property
of their common debtor, to release his debt, and the second creditor does
so get the property, and thus obtains a preference, the creditor who has
been thus, as above said, induced to release his debt, may disregard his
own release, and petition that his debtor be decreed a bankrupt.
2. If on a petition and other proceedings regular in form a decree in bankruptcy is made in such a case, and an assignee in bankruptcy is appointed in a way regular on its face, the decree in bankruptcy, though
it be a decree pro confesso, cannot, in a suit by the assignee to recover
from the preferred creditor the property transferred, be attacked on the
ground that the party petitioning had released his debt, was no creditor,
that his petition was accordingly fraudulent, and that the decree based
on it was void.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York.
Post, assignee in bankruptcy of the Macary Brothers, filed
a bill against Henry Michaels and Nathan Levi, partners, to
make them account for the value of certain merchandise (an
entire stock in trade, worth about $4200), which Post, as
assignee, alleged that the said Macary Brothers had transferred to the said Michaels & Levi in fraud of the Bankrupt
law.
The case, as it appeared on the weight of evidence, and
as it was assumed by this court to be, was thus:

