JENNISONS V. LEONARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

It was urged at the bar that National banks are not authorized to issue letters of credit, and if so, that th e action
cannot be sustained. But the record does not raise the
question, and it cannot, therefore, be considered. It is true
a plea was interposed which was doubtless meant to raise it,
on which, issue to the country was tendered, but for aught
that appears it was abandoned.
No evidence was offered under it, but if this were not
necessary the attention of the court at least should have been
called to it, and proper instructions asked. If refused, error
could have been assigned, and the point would then have
been properly before the court for decision.
Nothing of the kind was done, and it is too late to raise
the question now.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.
1. When, under the act of March 3d, 1865, authorizing the parties to sub
mit their case to the court for trial without the intervention of a jury,
there have been no exceptions to rulings in the course of the trial and
the court has found the facts specially and given judgment on them, the
only question which this court can pass upon, is the sufficiency of the
facts found to support the judgment. Any propositions of law stated by
the court as having been held by it in entering its judgment, are not
open to exception.
2. Where A. agreed to sell timber lands to B. (the chief or only value of the
lands being their timber), for a large sum, payable in three annual instalments, B. agreeing to cut not less than so much timber a year, the
value of which timber when cut, it was supposed, would be about enough
to pay the said purchase-money, and to make monthly payments at the
rate of a certain sum for each thousand feet cut, with an agreement that
if in any year the monthly payments on the basis of the timber cut,
taken together, fell short of the annual instalment due, B. would make
up the deficiency, with the further agreement that B. should have possession, use, and enjoyment of the lands from the date of the agreement
to sell, and should pay all taxes so long as he should continue in possession of them for the purposes of the agreement, and that A., on B.'s
making full payment with interest in the manner specified, would convey to him the lands in fee,-in such case it must be assumed that the

Oct. 1874.]

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.
Statement of the case.

parties intended that the payments were to be kept up in the ratio of
the cutting, and that the vendor reserved a right of entry in case of a
failure to pay; and time must be regarded as of the essence of the contract.
8- Where, in such a case, B. being indebted to C. for advances, mortgaged
to him so many feet of timber then cut on the land, and the mortgage
not being paid, C., agreeing with A. to operate under B.'s contract with
A., and-a dispute arising between A. and C. as to the amount due by
B. to A.-0. abandons the land, and A. enters into peaceable possession,
takes the timber at that time there, and not removed (which the evidence did not prove was the timber mortgaged), and has it sawed into
boards, it is to be regarded as A.'s, and not in any sense as 0.'s ; and if
C. take and convert it to his own use, assumpsit will lie against him for
its value.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Michigan; the case being thus:
Leonard owning certain timber lands in Michigan, agreed
on the 1st of September, 1865, with one Cole, who was engaged in the lumber business and meant to cut the timber
from them, to sell the lands to him for $27,000, payable,
with interest, in three yearly payments; $10,000 in the first
and second years, each, and $7000 in the third and last.
The manner in which the said yearly payments were to be
made was thus: Cole was to cut not less than three million
feet of logs in each of the three years, and to pay Leonard,
monthly, for every thousand feet cut and removed from the
lands, the sum of $3; it being provided and agreed that in
case the said monthly payments should fall short of the
yearly payments agreed on as just mentioned, Cole was to
make up the deficiency. It was agreed that Cole should
have possession of the lands "hereby contracted to be sold"
from and after the date of the contract, and the use and enjoyment of them and pay all taxes on them, so long as he
should continue in possession of them for the purposes of
the agreement; and that Leonard, receiving full payment
of the $27,000, with interest, in the manner specified, and
on Cole's performance of all his covenants, should execute
and deliver to Cole, or to his assigns, good and sufficient
deeds of conveyance of the lands, thereby contracted to be
sold, free from incumbrance and with warranty.

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Cole, at the same time and by the same instrument, agreed
to assign, on the execution of it to Leonard & Co., certain
swamp lands in Ottawa Harbor.
Prior to June 11th, 1867, Cole executed to L. & H. Jennison a bill of sale of a million of feet of the logs cut on
the premises, and three chattel mortgages upon the same, to
secure them for advances made to him. The Jennisons not
being paid the amounts secured by their mortgages, entered
on the lands in question early in July, 1867, and took possession of the timber cut by Cole, and not theretofore removed,
and began to remove the same. On the 20th of that month
they entered into an agreement, by which they recognized
the interest of Leonard in the property, and undertook to
pay what was due on the contract to Leonard, and what
should become due so long as they "operated under said
chattel mortgage."
A dispute soon arose as to the amount thus due, and on
the 4th of September, 1867, the Jennisons refused further
to "operate" on the land, but abandoned the land, and had
not since removed any timber therefrom.
Leonard then, September 12th, 1867, entered into possession of the lands for the alleged breach of contract by the
non-payment of $5280 then due and unpaid on the contract
of Cole, and took possession of all the "down timber" not
removed, amounting to one million one hundred and twentytwo thousand feet, board measure. At an expense of $5369
this timber was transported by Leonard to a mill near the
mouth of the Grand River, sawed into lumber, and placed
on vessels for the Chicago market, without interference with
his possession, removal, or manufacture by any one. While
thus on the vessels, and about to be sent to Chicago, the
Jennisons seized the lumber, then worth $13,464, and sold
and converted it to their own use, asserting that the logs
from which it was manufactured were theirs, by virtue of
the mortgages to them from Cole, hereinbefore described.
For this taking Leonard sued them in assumpsit, in the
court below.
The case was submitted to the court for trial without the

Oct. 1874.]

JENNISONS v. LEONARD.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

intervention of a jury, under the act of Mfarch 3d, 1865, which
allows exceptions to the rulings of the court in the progress,
of the trial, and, where the finding of the facts is special, as
under the act it may be, allows this court to determine "the
sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment."
The court found the case as above set forth, and upon it.
held the law to be"That the contract of September 1st, 1866, was an executory
agreement 'to sell;' that no title passed by virtue thereof, to,
Cole or his assignee, to any portion of the land or timber described therein; that the stipulation therein contained in reference to monthly payments for timber to be cut and removed,
operated as a license to Cole or his assignees to cut and remove
annually three million feet or more, so long as Cole suffered no,
breach of his agreements to pay; but that when a breach occurred, and entry by the plaintiff in consequence, such license
was suspended, and could be restored only by waiver on the
part of the plaintiff, or by paying whatever was in arrears.
"That no title passed to Cole or his assignees to any timber
cut and not removed at the time of breach and entry by plaintiff.
"That the plaintiff's entry, September 12th, 1867, for breach,
occasioned by non-payment under the Cole contract, being continued and tacitly acquiesced in by Cole's assignees, restored to,
the plaintiff both possession and right of property in lands and
timber, and that the seizure subsequently by the defendants of
the lumber produced from such timber, rendered them liable to
the plaintiff in this form of action for the value thereof at the
place of seizure, with interest from the date of conversion."
The court accordingly rendered a judgment in $17,133 for
the plaintiff. The defendant now brought the case here.
There were no exceptions to the rulings of the court in
the progress of the trial.
Messrs. H. J. Smiley and D. D. Hughes, for the plaintiff in
error:
1. The court erred in holding that the entry made by the
plaintiff on the 12th of September, 1867, worked a forfeiture
or rescission of the contract with Cole for the sale of the
land and timber.
VOL. XXI.

20

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

This entry, of course, was made on account of the failure
of Cole to pay the balance of the $10,000, which matured
on the 1st of September, 1867. Such failure did not authorize the plaintiff to rescind the contract unless, in the Cole
contract, time was of the essence of the contract under all
the circumstances of the case.
Now, whether in an agreement of this sort, time is of
essence, is a question of intention of the parties as expressed
in the contract.* Manifestly here it was not, for the following reasons:
There is no proviso for re-entry for breach, and no agreements that a failure to pay shall put an end to the contract.
Payment is made a condition precedent to a conveyance,
but not to possession, or to cutting and removing.
The plaintiff took the Ottawa lands as collateral security
for performance by Cole, showing a clear intention that no
right of rescission remained.
The contract, in truth, made a demise for three years in
which the nine million feet of timber were to be cut and
removed. The agreement is to cut and remove three million a year, for three years, and that Cole should have possession of the lands, from and after the date of the contract, and
have the use and enjoyment of them, and pay taxes on them. We
have then the case of a demise for three years, or until nine
million are cut, without any proviso for re-entry. Without
such proviso no re-entry can be made.t
2. If the contract made a lease, then Cole and the Jennisons were tenants at will, and under the statute of Michigan
which enacts that "all estates at will may be determined
by either party by three months' notice given to the other
party,"I were entitled to three months' notice to quit to terminate the tenancy.ยง
J r.L. D. Norris, contra.
* Shafer v. Niver, 9 Michigan, 253.
t Smith v. Blaisdell, 17 Vermont, 200; Doe dem Willson v. Phillips, 2
Bingham, 13.
Crane v. O'IReiley, 8 Michigan, 315.
Compiled Laws, 1871, 43)4.

Oet. 1874.]

JENNISONS V.

LEONARD.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
There is but a single question of law in the case, viz.: are
the facts found sufficient to support the judgment? This
question may be affected by a greater or less number of considerations, but it is the sole question.
There are no exceptions to the rulings of the court in the
progress of the trial, and no objection of that character can
now be heard. We are authorized by the statute of March
3d, 1865, where the finding of facts is special, to review "the
determination of the sufficiency of the facts found to support
the judgment,"* and we are authorized to examine no other
question. In ordering judgment for the plaintiff, certain
propositions of law are announced by the judge as having
been held by him. These are important only as they necessarily and of themselves affect the question, whether the facts
found are sufficient to support the judgment, and they are
no more important than if they bad not been thus announced.
No specific exception is or can be taken to them.
It is contended that the vendor had no right, under the
contract of September 1st, 1866, to re-enter upon the premises, and take possession of the down timber. This contention is based upofi the idea that time was not of the essence
of the contract, and that although Cole was in arrears of
payment to an amount exceeding $5000, this gave no right
to the vendor to declare the contract forfeited. Conceding
that the intention of the parties determines the question, the
claim can scarcely be sustained in relation to a sale of timber lands, where the entire value of the estate consists in the
timber standing upon them, and when it is provided that
there shall be monthly payments, to be regulated by the
quantity of timber cut, and when it is provided that a given
quantity shall be cut during every month. That the parties
should not have intended to require the payments to be kept
up in the ratio of the cutting, and that the vendor should
not have intended to reserve his only practical protection in
this respect, viz., a right of entry in the case of a failure,
cannot readily be believed.
* Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wallace, 125.

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The Jennisons entered into possession of the premises, as
mortgagees of Cole, in the hope of saving their debt from
him by operating under his contract, and they agreed with
his vendor to pay the sums due and becoming due under his
contract as long as they should operate under their mortgage. A dispute arising as to the amount thus to be paid,
"they abandoned the lands, and the vendor entered into
peaceable possession" for the alleged breach, viz., the nonpayment of $5280, and took possession of all the timber that
had been cut and had not been removed.
Looking at the circumstances that Cole had refused to
perform, and had surrendered and assigned all his interest
in the contract and the timber; that the Jennisons had
ceased their operations and had abandoned the land" that
Leonard had entered into possession of the land and the
timber cut, and had caused the same to be removed and
sawed into boards; that the right of the Jennisons extended
only to such timber as bad been cut when their mortgage
was executed; that there is no evidence that the timber in
question had then been cut, it seems sufficiently plain, not
only that Leonard was the owner of and lawfully in possession of the timber and lumber in question, but that his
right was assented to by all parties who were in a condition
to question it. The Jennisons not only failed to show any
title to the lumber at any time, but voluntarily abandoned
whatever interest they might be supposed to have had.
It is urged that Leonard took certain swamp lands in
Ottawa as collateral security for the performance of his contract by Cole. If we suppose this to be true, we do not see
that it is very important. The payments were large in
amount ($27,000, with interest), extending over a period of
three years. That certain lands, neither the quality nor
value of which is stated, except that they were swamp lands,
were agreed to be given in security, will not affect the construction of the contract or the right to relief under it. It is
sufficient, however, to say that though the contract contains
an agreement to convey the swamp lands, there is no finding
that these lands were conveyed to the plaintiff. It rested

Oct. 1874.]

JENNISONS

V. LEONARD.

Opinion of the court.

in agreement merely, and there is nothing to justify the
suggestion that the swamp lands were ever conveyed by
Cole.
The claim that the instrument we have been discussing is
a lease, does not require much consideration. It has neither
a lessor, a lessee, nor a subject of demise. The only valuable
portion of it, the timber, was expected to be exhausted in
procuring the means of its own payment. When the supposed demise should terminate there would be no reversion
left to the vendor that would be worth the taking.
Nor is there more foundation for the suggestion that the
Jennisons were tenants at will and entitled to three months'
notice to quit. They did not wait for a notice to quit.
Without regard to the order or effect of their going, they
went when they were ready, leaving Leonard to take care
of his own interest as well as he was able.
This was one of the sales of real estate by contract, so
common in this country, in which the title remains in the
vendor and the possession passes to the vendee. The legal
title remains in the vendor, while an equitable interest vests
in the vendee to the extent of the payments made by him.
As his payments increase, his equitable interest increases,
and when the contract price is fully paid, tile entire title is
equitably vested in him, and he may compel a conveyance
of the legal title by the vendor, his heirs, or his assigns.
The vendor is a trustee of the legal title for the vendee to
the extent of his payment. The result of this state of things
is quite unlike that of a conveyance subject to a condition
subsequent which is broken, and when re-entry or a claim
of title for condition broken is necessary to enable the vendor to restore to himself the title to the estate. The legal
title having, in that case, passed out of him, some measures
are necessary to replace it. In the case of a contract likethat we are considering no legal title passes. The interest
of the vendee is equitable merely, and whatever puts an end
to the equitable interest-as notice, an agreement of the
parties, a surrender, an abandonment-places the vendor
where he was before the contract was made.

810

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V. COURTRIGHT.

[SUp. Ct.

Syllabus.

No mode of terminating an equitable interest can be more
perfect than a voluntary relinquishment, by the vendee, of
all rights under the contract, and a voluntary surrender of
the possession to the vendor. The finding of the court shows
that this took place in relation to the premises in question,
and that the surrender was accepted by the vendor.
We may safely say, then: first, that no importance is to
be attributed to the circumstance, that the contract contains
no clause of re-entry; or second, to the fact that the vendor
has sought to enforce payment of the amounts which became
due to him before the surrender and abandonment; and
third, that there can be no doubt about the intention of the
parties in making the contract, that the payments and the
cutting should proceed in the ratio specified; or fourth, that
when the payments ceased it was intended, and is the law,
that the cutting should also cease; or fifth, that by the facts
appearing by the finding of the court the plaintiff below is
entitled to a judgment for the value of the lumber taken
from his possession, with interest.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V.

(OURTRIGHT.

On the 15th of May, 1856, Congress passed an act entitled "An act making
a grant of lands to the State of Iowa, in alternate sections, to aid in the
construction of certain railroads in said State" (11 Stat. at Large, 9).
That act grasted to the State for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad between certain specified places, alternate sections of
land, designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width on each side
of the road, to be selected within fifteen miles therefrom. And the act
declared that the lands thus granted should be exclusively applied to
the construction of the road, and be subject to the disposal of the legislature for that purpose and no other, and only in the manner following,
that is to say, a quantity of land not exceeding one hundred and twenty
sections, and included within a continuous length of twenty miles of the
road, might be sold; and when the governor of the State should certify
to the Secretary of the Interior that any continuous twenty miles of
the road were completed, then another like quantity of the land granted
might be sold, and so from time to time until the road was completed.

