Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

Syllabus.

Ignorance and unskilfulness being proved, the attempt to
set up inevitable accident is vain, as such a defence can
never be sustained even in a collision case, unless it appears
that neither party is in fault. Loss or damage occasioned
by such a disaster, where it appears that those in charge of
the deck were incompetent to perform the required duty,
either from inexperience or want of knowledge of the route,
or from negligence or inattention, cannot be regarded as
being the result of natural causes, nor as falling within the
exception contained in the bill of lading or contract of shipment.
Different definitions are given of what is called inevitable
accident, on account of the different circumstances attending
the disaster, but there is no decided case which will support
such a defence where it appears that the disaster was occasioned by the incompetency, unskilfulness, or negligence of
the master or pilot in charge of the deck.*
Service was not made in this case upon the barge, and of,
course the decree must be founded upon the fault of the
steamer and those who were responsible for the unskilfulness and bad judgment exercised in her navigation.
DECREE REVERSED with costs, and the cause remanded
with directions to enter a decree for the libellants and for
further proceedings in conformity
To THE OPINION OF THE COURT.

JEROME V. MCARTER.
1. The amount of a supersedeas bond as well as the sufficiency of the security
are matters to be determined by the judge below, under the provisions
of the twenty-ninth rule.
2. The discretion thus exercised by him will not be interfered with by this
court.
* The Morning Light, 2 Wallace, 660; Union Steamship Co. v. New
York Steamship Co., 24 Howard, 313.
VOL.

=.

2

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
B. If, however, after the security has been accepted, the circumstances of
the case, or of the parties, or of the sureties upon the bond have
changed, so that security which at the time it was taken was " good and
sufficient" does not continue to be so, this court, on proper application,
may so adjudge and order as justice may require.

ON motion of Hir. G. F. Edmunds, to increase the amount
of a bond given on appeal and fbr additional security. The
case was thus:
McCarter, the holder of a third mortgage, given by the
Lake Superior Ship Canal, Railroad, and Iron Company, on
about 400,000 acres of lands-pine lands, hard-wood lands,
iron lands, copper lands, and farming lands-in Michigan,
filed a bill in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan, to foreclose his mortgage. Subsequently to this
the company was decreed bankrupt, and one Jerome and
another having been appointed its assignees, they were
brought in by supplemental bill. On the 15th of June,
1874, the complainant got a decree of foreclosure.
The decree directed the sale of the canal, corporate franchises, and two laud grants, to pay $1,057,686, and also
what might be due to one hundred and twenty bondholders
whose debts were not included in the above amount.
The sale was to be made subject to prior liens of $1,500,000
and upwards (apparently about $2,000,000), so that with the
decree of $1,057,686, the property, ifsold, would, in order
to pay all charges against it, have to produce $3,057,686, or
at least $2,500,000. The prior incumbrances were carrying
interest at the rate of 10 per cent. a year.
An appeal was soon afterwards applied for to Swayne, J.,
to operate as a supersedeas. A body of affidavits was produced on the side of the defendant, from men of business,
men of science, and men of wealth, to show an immense
value in the mortgaged property, that its value far exceeded
the amount of the decree and all prior liens, taking these at
their principal sums and adding all the interest that had
already accrued or would accrue during the litigation,
and moreover that the property, from the anticipation of
finding new mines on it, was rising in value. A body of

Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V. MCARTER.

Statement of the case.

affidavits, nearly or quite as large and from a similar class
of persons, was produced to show the contrary; the highest
value given to the lands by any of these being $2,500,000.
After hearing and considering these affidavits, an appeal was
allowed by Swayne, J., to operate as a supersedeas, and the
security fixed at $10,000, with two persons, named Wells
and Crosby, as sureties. An appeal bond was given accordingly.
There was no allegation in making the present motion,
that there was any altered condition of the mortgaged property or of the sureties in the appeal bond. The case, however, was No. 655 on the calendar, the case last argued prior
to the date of the motion having been No. 06, and it appearing that the present case would hardly, in regular
course, come on to be heard for two years.
Affidavits by the same persons who had made them 'before,
and affidavits by numerous other persons on both sides, were
now produced and laid before the court; there being now,
as before, vast differences in the estimates of the property
mortgaged, and as to whether it would be found more valuable than it now was or not.
To understand the arguments in the case, it is necessary
to advert to certain statutes and to the twentieth rule of this
court.
The twenty-second section of the act of 1789,* -confers
upon this court the power to review the final judgments and
decrees of the Circuit Court by means of a writ of error, and
the judge who signs the citation is directed to take good
and sufficient security from the plaintiff in error, "to answer
all damages and costs if he fail to make 'his -plea good."
The twenty-third section prescribes the mode by which
this writ of error may operate as a supersedeas and stay execution, and when the writ so operates, this court is directed,
when they affirm the judgment or decree, to adjudge to the
respondent in error, "just damages for his delay, and single
or double costs, at their discretion."
* 1 Stat. at Large, 85.

JEROME V. MOCARTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the right in this court.

When the writ is not a supersedeas, an act of 12th December, 1794,* provides that the security shall only be to such
an amount as, in the opinion of the justice signing the citation, may be sufficient to cover the costs.
In 1867,t this court promulgated its twenty-ninth rule, as
follows:
"Supersedeas bonds in the Circuit Courts must be taken with
good and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error or appellant shall prosecute his writ of appeal to effect and answer all
damages and costs if he fail to make his plea good. Such indemnity, where the judgment or decree is for the recovery of
money not otherwise secured, must be for the whole amount of
the judgment or decree, including 'just damages for delay,' and
costs and interest on the appeal. But in all suits where the property in controversy necessarilyfollows the event of the suit, as in real
actions, replevin, and in suits on mortgages; or where the property is in the custody of the marshal under admiralty process,
as in case of capture or seizure; or where the proceeds thereof
or a bond for the value thereof, is in the custody or control of
the court, indemnity in all such cases is only required in an amount
sufficient to secure the sum recovered for the use or detention of the
property,and the costs of the suit, and 'just damagesfor delay,' and
costs and interest on the appeal."
Messrs. G. F. Edmunds and A. Russell, in support of the
motion:
By the twenty-second section of the act of 1789, security
is to be taken by the judge signing the citation that the
plaintiff in error "answer all damages and costs, if he fail to
make his plea good." From 1789 to 1867-the long term
of seventy-eight years-the construction of this act of Congress was uniform, that the bond must be sufficient to secure
the whole decree in case of its affirmance. Thus this court,
by Story, J. (A.D. 1824), in Catlett v. Brodie,t declared the
law to be.
Twenty-nine years later, in 1853, in Stafford v. Union Bank,§
* 1 Stat. at Large, 404.

±

9 Wheaton, 553.

t 6 Wallace, v.
16 Howard, 140.

Oc 1874.]

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

Argument for the right in this court.

this court again declared, "that the amount of the bond given
on the appeal must be the amount of the judgment on decree," and that no discretion could be exercised by the judge taking
the bond. That case was a foreclosure, where the sum decreed was $65,000, and the judge had taken a bond in
$10,000. The property was in the hands of a receiver, who
had given bonds in $40,000, and the persons in actual custody of the property had also given bonds for its safe keeping in $80,000. The allegation of hardship was set up there,
as doubtless it will be here. But this court said that the
hardship was more imaginary than real, and that the act of
Congress was "mandatory," and that this court must comply with it.
The year after the last decision, in 1854, the appellant,
Stafford, having failed to file the bond called for by the decision of this court, and the judge below still refusing to
execute the decree, the court awarded a peremptory mandamus,* and a second affirmance is found in Safford v. Canal
Company.t
Fourteen years later, in 1867, the court promulgated its
rule number twenty-nine, declaring, that where the property in controversy necessarily follows the event of the suit,
as in suits on mortgages, indemnity is only required, on appeal, in an amount sufficient to secure the costs of the suit,
just damages for delay, and costs and interest on the appeal.
It is apparent, that while the act of Congress, regulating
the subject of security on appeal, remains unrepealed, the
court can make no rule contravening the statute. The
power of the court is necessarily limited to the giving of a
construction to the statute. As was observed in Stafford v.
Union Bank, already cited, the act is "mandatory," leaving
no discretion. The rule, then, can be sustained only as a
construction of the statute. But how can the court construe
a statute by a rule? Must not the construction be made in
the exercise of appellate power in a case between party and
party, arising under the Constitution and laws? This rule
* Same Case, 17 Id. 275.

t 1b.. 283.

JEROME V.

MCOARTER.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the right in this court.

operates to reverse the decisions of the court above referred
to by declaring that the security shall not be for the face of
the decree, but for damages for delay, interest, and costs.
This rule also adds to the statute l)y giving a discretionary
amount for delay. We submit that the rule was improvidently adopted.
But if the rule is valid and is adhered to, it is mandatory
on the judge taking the security, and establishes a minimum,
below which he cannot fix the security, i. e., interest on the
appeal,&c. In this case, it is ten per cent. on $3,000,000 for
at least two, and probably three years; from $600,000 to
$900,000. And to this should be added damages for delay
and costs. The amount actually fixed ($10,000) would not
pay the interest accruing while the clerk was engaged in
preparing the transcript.
That a discretion exists in this court to diminish, was decideci in Rubber Company v. Goodyear,* where the court did
actually diminish it. The right of this court to review and
modify the action of the court below, was a point in the case
solemnly adjudged.
In French v. Shoemaker,t the most recent decision, the
rule was reiterated. Clifford, J., in delivering the opinion
of the court, says:
"The question of sufficiency must be determined in the first
instance by the judge who signs the citation, but after the allowance of the appeal, that question as well as every other in the
cause becomes cognizable here. It is, therefore, matter of discretion with the court to increase or diminish the amount of the
bond, and to require additional sureties or otherwise as justice
may require."
However, neither of these cases was a case of foreclosure, and the latter portion of the rule fixing "interest on the
appeal," &c., absolutely, as the amount of the bond in such
cases, does not appear to have been passed upon by this
court.
If then the court shall hold that discretion does exist in
*6 -Wallace, 153, 156.

-t 12 Id. 99.

Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V. MCOARTER.
Argument against the right in this court.

foreclosure cases, we call attention to the affidavits and other
papers filed in support of the motion, in regard to the value
Qf the mortgaged property. These affidavits show the value
to be less than the amount of incumbrances found by the
court below.
Nothing has been done in the bankruptcy of the corporation subsequent to the adjudication two years ago. We
may properly infer that the adjudication was procured merely
to cause delay and embarrassment in the foreclosure proceedings, and not in good faith for the administration of the
mortgaged property, which is all the property possessed by
the bankrupt corporation.
The cause will stand at least two years on the docket before it can be reached, and the certain increase of the mortgage debt in this cause and of the prior incumbrances, by
interest, will be about $600,000.
The prospect of any rise in the property to meet this certain increase of the debt is conjectural, resting upon the
chance of a discovery of more valuable ores, &c.
The so-called "indemnity" to the appellee is at least sixty
times too small.
Messrs. P. Phillips,X. EI. Carpenter,and *W. P. Wells, contra:
1. Until the determination of the cause, the appellants
stand upon a supersedeas bond, duly approved by the judge
who signed the citation, in strict compliance with the requirements of the twenty-third section.
The pretence now set up by the appellee is that, admitting all this to be true, the statutory right thus acquired by
the appellants to a supersedeas shall not be maintained,
without the appellants enter into a new bond in another
amount and with other securities, now to be prescribed by
this court.
The duty of taking the bond is, under the act of 1789,
conferred on the judge below. It involves the exercise of
discretion. To fix the amount, there must be an estimate
of the damages, and what these may be, must have regard
to the nature of the litigation.

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the right in this court.

The statute confers a power on the judge signing the citation; he is to take a certain security. It gives also a power
to this court, on the same subject-matter, to wit: to adjudge
"just damages for delay, and single or double costs." The
respondent is thus provided with these two remedies for redress, when his decree is affirmed. But the statute nowhere
provides that the power conferred on the judge below may
be reviewed by the court. Nor is such a review at all involved in the exercise of the appellate power conferred by
the twenty-second section, which authorizes the court to
re-examine the judgment or decree, and reverse or affirm
the same.
Again, if we fre correct in saying that the judge below,
in judging the solvency of the sureties, and of the sufficiency
of the amount, exercises a discretion, then by the repeated
decisions of the court, his acts cannot be reviewed by the
appellate tribunal.
If the judge below has acted in conformity to law, the
party is entitled to his supersedeas, and it must stand. If,
on the other hand, there is a fixed and arbitrary rule, as
contended for by the mover, and the judge has violated this
rule, then the bond taken is inoperative as a supersedeas.
In such a case the party is entitled to his execution; and if
the judge below should refuse to issue it, he would fail in a
duty imposed on him by law, and a mandamus would compel him to execute the decree. This was the precise case of
Stafford v. Union -Bank,in which the mandamus directed the
issue of an execution.
It is to be observed that the application to reform the
bond is not based upon any altered condition either of the
sureties or of the property. The affidavits now used are as
to the value of the property at the time when the judge below made his examination as to the fact, by testimony of
witnesses, in presence of the mover. Hlaving failed to impress the judge with his view of the matter, the effort has
been adjourned into this court, so that on a second consideration he may have another chance of success.
It would seem from these considerations, independent of

Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V.

MCCARTER.

Argument against the right in this court.

adjudication, that the action of the judge below is conclusive
as to the sufficiency of the bond.
When a party applies for a supersedeas and offers security,
and the judge refuses on the ground that in his opinion the
sureties are not solvent, nor the amount adequate, could
the court award the supersedeas, or issue a mandamus?
In Black v. Zaeharie,* the judge had taken a bond and
allowed a supersedeas, but being subsequently satisfied that
the security "was not sufficient for a writ of supersedeas,"
he set aside the previous order. In this court a supersedeas
was applied for on a showing that the bond was sufficient.
Story, J., in delivering the unanimous opinion of the court,
overruled the motion, on the ground that "the judges of the
Circuit Court were the sole and exclusive judges what security should be taken for that purpose" (to wit, a supersedeas). This is a case where the judge decided that the
bond was insufficient, and this was held to be conclusive.
Is there any principle which would hold that a judgment of
sufficiency is not equally conclusive?
But it must be admitted that these views and this decision
are not reconcilable with other decisions of the court.
Thus in Stafford v. Union Bank the mandamus was issued
on the ground that the bond was insufficient.
The Rubber Company v. Goodyear did undoubtedly act on
the power in this court after the allowance of the appeal to
take cognizance of the sufficiency of the bail; and in -'ench
v. Shoemaker the right was asserted by the judge who gave
the opinion as a thing established. As to the former case,
it does not appear that the views here urged were presented
by argument at the bar. And what was said in the latter
was extrajudicial and irrelative to the points in issue, and of
course of no value.
When the doctrine now sought to be enforced was stated
in Staffird v. Union Bank, it was a mere suggestion of McLean, J., for it was decided that no motion could be made
in the cause, because the return day had not arrived. Cat3 Hloward, 495.

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the right in this court.

ron, J., would not agree to the opinion of the majority "advising the appellees what course to pursue against the district judge, because opposed to a doctrine attempting to
settle so grave a matter of practice."*
2. The twenty-ninth rule is assailed as ultra vires. Of
course, no rule could be adopted in violation of an act of
Congress. But the act of 1789 does not define the amount
of the security. It requires it to be sufficient to cover the
damages and costs. What these are is the subject of judicial
construction.
In Roberts v. Cooper,t decided in 1856, where the bond
was for $1000, and an application was made to increase it to
$25,000, on a showing that a loss would accrue to the mining company to that amount by reason of the supersedeas,
and that it was entitled to indemnity for "all damage" it
might sustain, the court denied the motion, saying that no
precedent had been or could be cited to sustain it, and that
in construing the act of 1789, regard must be had to the
nature of the action.
Here nothing was recovered for the use and detention of
the property.
3. The appellants in this court are the assignees in bankruptcy of the mortgagor corporation. The amount found
due by the decree cannot be enforced against them. Their
supersedeas of the decree could in no event make them liable
for more than the detention of the property pending the litigation, and there is no showing as to -what this damage
would be, assuming that the decree vested the complainant
with the right of possession. This, however, is not the case.
The decree is for a sale of the property. If the mortgagee
had brought his action of ejectment and recovered a judgment for possession, and now claimed that the bond should
be sufficient to cover the damages for detention pending the
controversy, it would be the case of Roberts v. Cooper, supra,
in which the court held there was no precedent for such a
motion.
• 16 Howard, 141.

t 19 Id. 374.

Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V. MCCARTER.
Argument against the right in this court.

In conclusion, we submit that whether the court accept
the estimate made by the appellee's affidavits or those of the
appellants, as to the value of the lands, it can in no wise
affect the present application. The appellants are not bound
to pay the money found due by the decree, and in claiming
the supersedeas they cannot be held responsible for the loss
of interest on such amount. Representing a large constituency of unprotected creditors of the company, and made
a party defendant to the complainant's bill, they aver that
the decree is manifestly injurious to the creditors and is
contrary to law. The statute confers the right of appeal
which they have exei'cised, and they are entitled to the
judgment of this court on their plaint. The justice who
rendered the decree has fully recognized the right of appellants to have it reviewed, and has perfected the appeal by
approving the bond. To increase this bond as is now asked
for would be an act of great hardship, and tantamount to a
denial of the right of appeal, as of course the assignees could
not give the security demanded. In no case can the appellant be required to give a bond to secure the payment of
any sum which can never be adjudged against him. And it
is clear that in this case the appellants, assignees in bankruptcy, cannot be required or be adjudged to pay any sum
which this bond, $10,000, will not secure.
4. Assuming that this court will review the action of the
judge who took the bond, it becomes necessary to enter
upon an inquiry upon the affidavits, in respect to the value
of the property covered by the decree.
[The learned counsel then reviewed the affidavits against
the motion and submitted that it was established by them
that if the decree in favor of the appellee was finally affirmed
there was an estate large enough to pay all liens, with just
damages for delay and interest and leave a large surplus for
the now impoverished corporation and its unsecured creditors, whose interests would be sacrificed if the motion to
increase the bond was granted, and their right of appeal
made ineffectual.]

JEROME V. MCARTER.

[Sup,

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court
This is a bill filed by a junior mortgagee of the Lake Su.
perior Ship-Canal, Railroad and Iron Company against the
company, a bankrupt, and its assignees in bankruptcy, for
the foreclosure of his mortgage and a sale of the mortgaged
property, subject to certain prior incumbrances. The decree
appealed from ordered the payment of $1,057,686 to the
complainant by the company or the assignees, and in default
of such payment, the sale of the mortgaged property, subject to an incumbrance thereon of $1,500,000 and upwards.
From this decree both the company and the assignees have
appealed. The justice who granted theappeal and signed
the citation accepted the supersedeas bond in the sum of
$10,000. The appellee now moves to increase the amount
of the bond and require additional sureties.
The twenty-second section of the Judiciary act of 1789
provides that every justice or judge signing a citation or any
writ of error shall take good and sufficient security that the
plaintiff shall prosecute his writ of error to effect and answer
all damages and costs if he fail to make his plea good. The
twenty-hird section provides that if the judgment or decree
is affirmed upon the writ of error, the court shall adjudge
and decree to the respondent in error just damages for his
delay, and single or double costs, at its discretion.* The
act of 1803t provides that appeals shall be subject to the
same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in
cases of writs of error.
Under the act of 1789 the amount of the security to be
taken is left to the discretion of the judge or justice accepting it. The statute is satisfied if in his opinion the security
is "good and sufficient."
Doubts having'arisen as to the extent of the security to
be required where there was no supersedeas or stay of execution, an act was passed directing that in such cases the
amount should be such as in the opinion of the judge would
be sufficient to answer all such costs as upon the affirmance
*1 Star. at Large, 85.

t 2 Id. 244.

Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V. MOCARTER.
Opinion of the court.

of the judgment or decree might be adjudged or decreed to
the respondent in error.*
In Catlett v. Brodie,t decided in 1824, this court held that
in cases where the writ of error operated as- a supersedeas,
the security ought to be sufficient to secure the whole amount
of the judgment. Mr. Justice Story, in delivering the opinion of the court, said, "It has been supposed at the argument
that the act meant only to provide for such damages and costs
as the court should adjudge for the delay. But our opinion
is that this is not the true interpretation of the language.
The word ' damages' is here used not as descriptive of the
nature of the claim upon which the original judgment is
founded, but as descriptive of the indemnity which the defendant is entitled to if the judgment is affirmed. Whatever
losses he may sustain by the judgment's not being satisfied
and paid after the affirmance, these are the damages which
he has sustained and for which the bond ought to give good
and sufficient security." Accordingly it was ordered that
the suit stand dismissed unless security should be given to
an amount sufficient to secure the whole judgment.
That was a judgment in an action at law for the recovery
of money not otherwise secured, and the decision established
a rule of practice for that class of cases. Afterwards, in
Stafford v. Union Bank,t decided in 1853, the court with one
dissenting judge, held that a supersedeas which had been
allowed upon an appeal from a decree for the foreclosure of
a mortgage on slaves should be vacated unless a bond was
given which would secure the payment of the decree. Mr.
Justice McLean, who delivered the opinion of the court,
after referring to the case of Catlett v. Brodie, said, "If this
construction of the statute be adhered'to, the amount of the
bona given on the appeal must be the amount of the judgment or decree. There is no discretion to be exercised by
the judge taking the bond where the appeal or writ of error
is to operate as a supersedeas." Thus the rule which had
been adopted in respect to judgments at law was extended
*1 Stat. at Large, 404.

t 9 Wheaton, 553.

: 16 Howard, 139.

80

JEROME V. MCCARTER.

[Sup. C.

Opinion of the court.

to decrees in chancery. It was a rule controlling to some
extent the discretion of the judge in such cases, and to be
observed so long as it continued in force.
It did continue until the case of Rubber Company v. Goodyear,* decided in 1867, and the adoption at the same time
by the court of the present rule twenty-nine. That rule
provides that where the judgment or decree is for the recovery of money not otherwise secured, the security must
be for the whole amount of the judgment or decree, including just damages for delay, and costs and interest on the appeal; but in all cases where the property in controversy
necessarily follows the event of the suit, as in real actions,
replevin, and in suits on mortgages; or where the property
is in the custody of the marshal under admiralty process, as
in case of capture or seizure; or where the proceeds thereof,
or a bond for the value thereof; is in the custody of the
court, indemnity in all such cases is only required in an
amount sufficient to secure the sum recovered for the use
and detention of the property, and the costs of the suit, and
just damages for the delay and costs and interest on the appeal. Such was the established rule of practice under the
act when the bond now in question was taken. To some
extent the old practice had been changed. The act itself
remained the same, but experience had shown that the rules
which had been adopted to give it effect were not suited to
all the cases arising under it, and the new rule was made for
the better adaptation of the practice to the protection of the
rights of litigants.
This is a suit on a mortgage and, therefore, under this
rule, a case in which the judge who signs the citation is
called upon to determine what amount of security will be
sufficient to secure the amount to be recovered for the use
and detention of the property, and the costs of the suit, and
just damages for the delay and costs and interest on the appeal. All this, by the rule, is left to his discretion.
In Black v. Zacharie,t it was held that in such a case the
* 6 WVallace, 156.

t 8 Howard, 495

Oct. 1874.]

JEROME V.

MCCARTER.

Opinion of the court.

justice taking the security was the sole and exclusive judge
of what it should be. Since then, in -Rubber Company v.
Goodyear, and French v. Shoemaker,* remarks have been
made by judges announcing the opinion of the court which,
if considered by themselves, would seem to indicate that
this discretion could be controlled here upon an appropriate
motion. The precise point involved in this case was not,
however, before the court for consideration in either of those,
and we think was not decided. We all agree that if, after
the security has been accepted, the circumstances of the
case, or of the parties, or of the sureties upon the bond have
changed, so that security which, at the time it was taken,
was "good and sufficient," does not continue to be so, this
court may, upon a proper application, so adjudge and order
as justice may require. But upon facts existing at the time
the security was accepted, the action of the justice within
the statute and within the rules of practice adopted for his
guidance is final. And we will presume that when he acted
every fact was presented to him that could have been. So,
while we agree that in a proper case, after an appeal or writ
of error taken here, this court may interfere and require
additional security upon a supersedeas, it will not attempt
to direct or control the discretion of a judge or justice in
respect to a case as it existed when he was called upon to
act, except by the establishment of rules of practice. If we
can be called upon to inquire into the action of the justice
in respect to the amount of the security required, we may
as to the pecuniary responsibility of the sureties at the time
they were accepted.
We understand the counsel for the appellee to contend,
however, that in this case the justice did not act within the
established rule, and that on this account we may review his
action. The claim is, that the rule requires indemnity for
interest upon the appeal, and this is construed to mean that
the security must be such as to secure the payment of all
the accumulation of interest upon the mortgage indebted* 12 Howard, 99.

JEROME V.

MCARTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ness pending the appeal and supersedeas. This we think is
not the requirement of the rule. The object is to provide
indemnity for loss by the accumulation of interest consequent upon the appeal, not for the payment of the interest.
What the loss is likely to be depends upon the facts. As to
this the justice, after consideration of the case, must determine.
In this case there can be no loss to the appellee if, as is
contended by the appellants, the value of the mortgage security is sufficient to pay all the incumbrances, with accruing interest, when a decre of affirmance shall be rendered
upon the appeal. Neither can there be if, as is contended
by the appellee, the value of the property is much less than
the amount of the prior incumbrances. If, upon the case
made by him, the property depreciates in value during the
continuance of the appeal, he will suffer no loss, because if
sold now, upon his theory, he would receive nothing. Not
being worth as much as the amount of the prior incumbrances, it is not to be supposed that a purchaser can befound
to take it at a price that would yield anything to apply on
his debt. The appellee may lose the opportunity of bidding
in the property at a reduced price and speculating upon its
rise, but the loss of such profits is not recognized by the
court as legitimate "damages for the delay." In either view
of the case, therefore, a judge would be justified in accepting a bond for a comparatively small amount.
There is another consideration which will justify the action of the judge under the rule. As has been seen, the suit
is brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage. The debtor
is a bankrupt corporation. Its whole property, including
its corporate franchises, has passed to its assignees in bankruptcy. It is in no condition to accumulate property which
can be subjected to the payment of its debts. It is, to all
intents and purposes, dead. No damage can result, therefore, from the appeal by reason of the delay in obtaining an
execution against the company under the provisions of rule
ninety-two, regulating the practice in courts of equity, for
the collection of any balance that may remain due to the

