TEXAS V. CHILES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

did not die before the summer of that year, this part of
their case fails.
It is next insisted in the bill, but not in the argument, that
the defendants are estopped from setting up the deed in
question by reason of the trust deeds to Costa, executed
afterwards by the Kirchbergs at the request of Wahrenberger,
to secure the debt due to him, and that, therefore, it should
be cancelled.
This is in direct conflict with the uniform current of decisions in this court, commencing with Blight's Lessee v.
Rochester,* and ending with Merynian v. -Bourne.t
It is next urged in the argument that the deed was given
as a mortgage to secure a debt which has been paid.
There is no allegation in the bill to support this claim.
The recovery must be had upon the case made by the pleadings or not at all.
It is unnecessary to consider the effect, under the laws of
Texas, of the judgment in the action of trespass instituted
by the complainants to try their title to the property.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

TEXAS V. CHILES.
1. The purpose of the act of Congress (Revised Statutes, 858) enacting that
"in courts of the United States no witness sball be excluded . . . in any civil
action, because he is a party to or interested in the issue to be tried, Provided,"
&c., was to put the parties to a suit (except those named in a proviso to
the enactment) on a footing of equality with other witnesses; that is to
say, to make all admissible to testify for themselves, and all compellable
to testify for others.
2. An order accordingly made for a subpcena to a defendant in equity, in
order that his deposition might be taken for the complainant.

THIS was an application for an order that a subpogna issue
for John Chiles, the defendant in the case of Texas v. Chiles
*7 Wheaton, 535.

t- 9 Wallace; 600.

Oct. 1874.]

TEXAS V. OtHILES.
Opinion of the court.

(a case in equity), in order that his deposition might be taken
on behalf of the complainant. The proper disposition of
the motion depended upon the solution of the question
whether he could be required to testify by the other party.
The statutory provision of Congress upon the subject, found
in section 858 of the Revised Statutes, was as follows:
"In the courts of the United States no witness shall be excluded in any action on account of color, or in any civil action
because he is a party to, or interested in, the issue tried: Provided, That in actions by or against executors, administrators,
or guardians, in which judgments may be rendered for or against
them, neither party shall be allowed to testify against the other
as to any transaction with, or statement by, the testator, intestate, or ward, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite
party, or required to testify thereto by the court. In all other
respects the laws of the State in which the court is held shall be
the rules of decision as to the competency of witnesses in the
courts of the United States in trials at common law, and in equity
and admiralty."

.Messrs. T. J. -Durantand B?. T. Merrick, in support of the
application; Mr. Albert Pike, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYIE delivered the opinion of the court.
It was a rule in equity of long standing that the complainant could examine the defendant as a witness, upon
interrogatories, and that one defendant might examine another, but they could not examine the complainant without
his consent, and the right to examine a defendant was attended with serious restrictions and embarrassment.* A bill
of discovery was a dilatory and expensive measure.t It was
also less effectual than the examination of the defendant as
a witness.
In trials at law the system of exclusion was more rigid.
The general rule of the common law was that no party to
* 1 Smith's Chancery Practice, 343; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,
361;
Eckford v. De Kay, 6 Paige, 565; Ashton v. Parker, 14 Simons, 632; 2
Daniell's Chancery Practice, Perkins's edition, 1865, p. 885, note.
t 2 Story's Equity,
1483, 1489.

TEXAS V. CHILES.

[Sup Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the record could be a witness for or against himself, or for
or against any other party to the suit.* This doctrine was
attacked by Bentham in his work on evidence, published in
1828, with great force of reasoning. He maintained that
"in the character of competency no objections ought to be
allowed."t His views produced a deep impression in England, and became the subject of earnest discussion there.
Subsequently they bore fruit. In "the County Courts Act,"
passed by Parliament in 1846, it was declared that "on the
hearing or trial of any action, or on any other proceeding
under this act, the parties thereto, their wives, and all other
persons may be examined either oil behalf of the plaintiff
or defendant upon oath or solemn affirmation." This was
a great alteration in the law from what it was before. After
it had been tested for six years in the county courts and its
wisdom approved, the rule was, in 1851, by a measure
known as "Lord Brougham's Act," with a few exceptions
not necessary to be stated, made applicable in all legal proceedings elsewhere. An able writer says, "Every eminent
lawyer in Westminster Hall will readily admit that it has
been productive of highly beneficial results." He adds:
"In courts of law it has not only enabled very many honest
persons to establish just claims which, under the old system
of exclusion, could never have been brought to trial with
any hope of success, but it has deterred at least an equal
number of dishonest men from attempting on the one hand
to enforce a dishonest demand, and on the other to set up
a fictitious defence." The common-law commissioners, in
their report upon the subject, said:
"According to the concurrent testimony of the bench, the
profession, and the public, the new law is found to work
admirably, and to contribute in an eminent degree to the
administration of justice."I
The innovation, it is believed, has been adopted in some
form in most, if not in all the States and Territories of our
* I Greenleaf on Evidence,

$ 2 Taylor on Evidence,

329, 330.
1218,

t Vol. 1, p. 3.

Oct. 1874.]

TEXAS V. OHILES.
Opinion of the court.

Union.* It is eminently remedial, and the language in
which it is couched should be construed accordingly.
A doubt has been suggested whether the enactment before us does not give merely a privilege to each party which
may be availed of or not as a matter of choice, without conferring the right upon either to compel the other to testify.
This view is too narrow and cannot be maintained. The
first sentence forbids, in the courts of the United States, exclusion in any case on account of color, and in civil actions
on account of interest or being a party. If either party
offers to testify and is excluded by reason of being a party,
there is certainly a clear infraction of the statute, both as to
its language and meaning. If either party calls the other,
and the party called is excluded upon this ground, is not the
infraction equally clear? - The language applies as well to
one case as to the other. Both are alike within its terms
and meaning. We see no ground for a distinction. A
doubt, the converse of the one suggested, might with equal
propriety be insisted upon. Such a proposition would have
the same foundation, and might be sustained by an argument, mutatis mutandis, inthe same terms. The same doubt
and the same reasoning would apply as to colored witnesses.
All such doubts rest upon an assumption unwarranted by
anything in the statute. The case is one where the language
is so clear and comprehensive that there is no room for construction, and the duty of the court is simply to give it effect
according to the plain import of the words. There should
be no construction where there is nothing to construe.t
But if there were doubt on the subject, the statute being
remedial in its character, the doubt should be resolved in a
liberal spirit in order to obviate as far as possible the existing evils. To permit parties to testify, and to limit the
statute to this, would deprive it of half its efficacy, and that
much the most beneficial part. Where the testimony of
one party is important to the other there is, of course, un329.
5 Wheaton, 76.
Wiltberger,
v.
t United States

* 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,

492

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

willingness to give it. The narrow construction suggested
would leave to the party needing the evidence in such cases
no choice but to forego it, or fall back upon a bill of discovery. It is hardly credible that Congress, in departing
from the long-established restriction as to parties to the
record, intended to stop short of giving the full measure of
relief. We can see no reason for such a limitation. The
purpose of the act in making the parties competent was, except as to those named in the proviso, to put. them upon a
footing of equality with other witnesses, all to be admissible
to testify for themselves and compellable to testify for the
others. This conclusion is supported by all the considerations applicable to the subject.
ORDER MADE.

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.
1. A railroad 455 miles long, 42 miles of which were in a State other than
that by which it was incorporated, held to be "1doing business" within
the State where the 42 miles were, within the meaning of an act taxing
all railroad companies " doing business within the State and upon whose
road freight may be transported."
2. It being settled law that the language by which a State surrenders its
right of taxation, must be clear and unmistakable, a grant by one State
to a corporation of another State to exercise a part of its franchise within
the limits of the State making the grant, as above said, and laying a tax
upon it at the time of the grant, does not, of itself, preclude a right of
further taxation by the same State.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
The question in this case was that of the right and intention of the State of Pennsylvania to impose a tax upon the
gross receipts of the Erie Railway Company, a corporation
created by the State of INew York and having a portion of
its road in Pennsylvania. The case was thus:
In May, 1868, the legislature of Pennsylvania passed an
act, by the seventh and eighth sections of which there was
imposed a tax of three-fourths of one per cent. upon the

