BAILEY V.

CLARK.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

No greater rights in the estate were adjudged to her than
were secured by the law of the State, and if she had been
a creditor, instead of a distributee, and sought to obtain a
preference over a local creditor, we think it safe to say her
bill would have been dismissed. The powers of courts of
equity are not in issue in the present suit, nor is there any
question presented about restraining or limiting them.
The laws of Arkansas required an administrator to make
final settlement of his administration within three years
from the date of his letters. The administrator of Du Bose
not only failed to discharge this duty, but neglected even to
convert the assets of the estate into money, in order to pay
debts. Gautier was not compelled to resort to the local Probate Court to secure the performance of these obligations,
but could, had he chosen, hiave invoked the equity powers
of the Circuit Court for the District of Arkansas, to obtain
a suitable measure of redress. This he could have obtained
in less time than it has taken to conduct this litigation; but
this measure of redress would only have placed him on an
equality with other creditors, as prescribed by the laws of
Arkansas. It would in no event have diverted the assets,
so that his debt should have been satisfied to the exclusion
of other creditors equally meritorious.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BAILEY, COLLECTOR, V.

CLARK ET AL.

The term "capital," employed by a banker in the business of banking, in
the one hundred and tenth section of the Revenue Act of July 13th,
1866, does not include moneys borrowed by him from time to time temporarily in the ordinary course of his business. It applies only to the
property or moneys of the banker set apart from other uses and permanently invested in the business.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The one hundred and tenth section of the Revenue Act

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V.

CLARK.

Statement of the case.

of the United States, as amended on the 18th of July, 1866,*
enacts"That there shall be levied, collected, and paid a tax of one
twenty-fourth of one per centum each month . . . upon the

capital of any bank, association, company, or corporation, and
on the capital employed by any person in the business of banking beyond the average amount invested in United States
bonds."
And the seventy-ninth section of the same act as amended,
declares"That every incorporated or other bank, and every person,
firm, or company having a place of business where credits are
opened by the deposit or collection of money or currency, subject to be paid or remitted upon draft, check, or order; or
where money is advanced or loaned on stocks, bonds, bullion,
bills of exchange or promissory notes; or where stocks, bonds,
bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes are received for
discount or for sale, shall be regarded as a bank or as a banker."t
During the years 1869 and 1870, Clark and others were
bankers within the meaning of this statute, doing business
in the city of New.York, under the name of Clark, Dodge
& Co.; and at various times between the 1st of April, 1869,
and the 1st of February, 1870, they made returns, as required by law, to the assessor of internal revenue for the
district, of the amount of their fixed capital employed in
banking, and of the amount of moneys deposited with them
by their customers. The assessor required more than this;
he insisted, against the objection.of Clark, Dodge & Co.,
that all moneys borrowed by them from time to time, and
temporarily in the ordinary course of their business, formed
a part of their capital employed in the business of banking,
and were subject to the tax imposed upon capital, under the
section cited. He accordingly assessed a tax upon the several amounts thus borrowed within the dates mentioned, as
part of the capital of the company.
One Bailey was at the time collector of internal revenue
* 14 Star. at :Large, 136.

t Id. 115.

BAILEY V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the district, and as such officer enforced the payment of
the taxes thus assessed, amounting to over six thousand dollars. Clark, Dodge & Co. protested at the time against the
legality of the assessment, and appealed from the decision
of the assessor to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Failing to obtain any rescission of the assessment or restitution of the moneys paid, they brought the present action for
their recovery.
The action was tried by the court without the intervention of a jury, by stipulation of the parties, under the recent
act of Congress. The court found the facts as above stated,
but with greater detail, and held that the money thus temporarily borrowed by the plaintiffs in the ordinary course of
their business was not capital of the company employed
in the business of banking, and was not, therefore, liable to
assessment as part of such capital; and that the assessment
and collection of the tax was, therefore, illegal and unauthorized. The court accordingly gave judgment for the
plaintiffs. To review that judgment, the case was brought
here on writ of error.
Mr. G. -. Williams, Attorney- General,and Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, for the collector, the appellant; Mr. T1.-E.
Burrill,for the appellees.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
As appears from the statement of the case the only question for determination relates to the meaning to be given to
the term capital in the one hundred and tenth section of the
Revenue Act. The term is not there used in any technical
sense, but in its natural and ordinary signification. And it
is capital not merely of individuals, but of corporations and
associations, which is subject to the tax in question. When
used with respect to the property of a corporation or association the term has a settled meaning; it applies only to the
property or means contributed by the stockholders as the
fund or basis for the business or enterprise for which the

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. OLARK.
Opinion of the court.

corporation or association was formed. As to them the term
does not embrace temporary loans, though the moneys borrowed be directly appropriated in their business or undertakings. And when used with respect to the property of
individuals in any particular business, the term has substantially the same import; it then means the property taken
from other investments or uses and set apart for and invested
in the special business, and in the increase, proceeds or earnings of which property beyond expenditures incurred in its
use consist the profits made in the business. It does not,
any more than when used with respect to corporations, embrace temporary loans made .inthe regular course of business. As very justly observed by the circuit judge, "It
would not satisfy the demands of common honesty, if a man
engaged in business of any kind, being asked the amount
of capital employed in his business, should include in his
reply all the sums which, in the conduct of his business, he
had borrowed and bad not yet repaid."
There is no difference in the business of banking as conducted by individuals from the business as conducted by
corporations, which would warrant any different meaning
to be given to the term capital in the two cases. Nor can
any good reason be stated why a distinction should be made
between banking corporations and individual bankers in
this respect.
Independently of these considerations there would be
great practical difficulty in administering the law upon the
theory that moneys temporarily borrowed are to be treated
as capital and taxable as such. The amounts borrowed from
time to time must necessarily vary, and, if they are treated
as additions to the capital, the aggregate amount of the capital must be constantly changing. It would, therefore, be
necessary for the assessors of the government, in order to
determine the capital to be taxed every month, to average
the sums borrowed, and in adopting any such course they
would be obliged to interpolate into the statute the word
average, which was stricken out by the amendment of 1866.
We are satisfied that the term as used in the statute was

BAILEY V.

CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

intended to embrace only the fixed capital employed in the
business of banking, as distinguished from deposits and temporary loans made in the regular course of business, and
that no distinction is to be made in this respect between the
capital of individual bankers and that of banking corporations.
It is undoubtedly true, as stated by the Attorney-General,
that capital used in the business of banking is none the less
so because it is borrowed. The mere fact that the money
permanently invested in the business is borrowed does not
alter its character as capital. The question here is whether
money not thus permanently invested, but borrowed temporarily in the ordinary course of business to meet an emergency, is capital; and we are clear that the term does not,
either in common acceptation or within the meaning of the
statute, embrace loans of that character.
After controversies had arisen as to the interpretation to
be given to the statute, upon the question at issue in this
case, between bankers and the government, Congress passed
the act of 1872, defining the meaning of the terms "capital
employed," in the one hundred and tenth section, and enacted that they "shall not include money borrowed or received from day to day in the usual course of business from
any person not a partner of, or interested in, the said bank,
association, or firm."* This enactment was evidently intended to remove any doubt previously existing as to the
meaning of the statute and declare its true construction and
meaning. Had it been intended to apply only to cases subsequently arising it would undoubtedly have so provided in
terms.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* 17 Stat. at Large, 256.

