Oct. 1874.]

COOPER &

Co. v. C0ATES & Co.

Statement of the case.

COOPER & CO. V. COATES & CO.
1. The statute of Illinois, which in trials of actions by or against partners on
contracts, dispenses, in the first instance, with the necessity of proof of
the partnership, applies to a case where the declaration beginning thus:
"A., B., and C., trading as A. & Co., complain of D., E., and F., trading as
D. & Co.,"
then goes on referring, throughout, to the parties-respectively, as "the
said plaintiffs" and "the said defendants." The designation of the
parties, as partners, in the opening of the declaration, is not a simple
designatio personarum, and surplusage; but amounts to an averment
that they contracted as partners.
2. In a suit for goods sold, when a witness proves by testimony not competent that they have been delivered, the reception of his testimony is not
ground for reversal where competent pJrimafacie evidence, wholly uncontradicted, and therefore conclusive, has also been given of the delivery. The defendant in such case suffers nothing by the incompetent
testimony.
3. A bill of lading for goods sent to a purchaser, and not objected to by him,
amounts to a liquidation of an account within the statute of Illinois,
giving interest on "liquidating accounts between the parties and ascertaining the balance," there being no other transaction between the
parties.
4. And a draft drawn for the price of goods sold and delivered is equivalent
to a demand of payment, and, there being no proof of credit, and the
bill having been received without objection, equally brings the case
within the statute, which gives interest on money due and "withheld
by unreasonable and vexatious delay."

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being thus:
A statute of Illinois, relating to evidence in certain cases,*
enacts as follows:
"ยง 11. In trials of actions upon contracts, express or implied,
where the action is brought by partners, or by joint payees or
obligees, it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff, in order to
maintain any such action, to prove the copartnership of the in.
dividuals named in such action, or to prove the Christian or surnames of such partners, or joint payees, or obligees; but the
* 1 Gross's Statutes, 270.

COOPER & CO. V. COATES & CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

names of such copartners, joint payees, or obligees, shall be presumed to be set forth in the declaration, petition, or bill ; Provided," &c.
"ยง 12. In actions upon contracts, express or implied, against
two or more defendants, alleged to have been made or executed
by such defendants as partners, or joint obligors, or payers.
proof of the joint liability or partnership of the defendants, or
their Christian or surnames, shall not, in the first instance, be
required to entitle the plaintiff to judgment, unless," &c.
Another statute-one on the subject of interest-and
which fixes interest in Illinois at six per cent., prescribes
the cases in which creditors shall be allowed to receive interest. This statute allows them to have it, among other
cases"On money due on the settlement of accounts from the day
of liquidating accounts between the parties and ascertaining the
balance; . . . and on money withheld by an unreasonable and
vexatious delay."
iBoth these statutes being in force, Charles Coates and
others brought assumpsit against Charles Cooper and others,
to recover the amount of five different bills of iron, weighing different weights, and alleged to have been sold and delivered on different days in January and February, 1870, by
the plaintiff, of Baltimore, Maryland, to the defendants, of
Mount Vernon, Ohio.
The declaration began thus:
"Charles Coates, George Coates, and Pennock Coates, trading
as Coates & Brothers, plaintiffs, in this suit, who are citizens of
the State of Maryland, complain of Charles Cooper, George
Rogers, and C. G. Cooper, who are citizens of the State of Ohio,
copartners,doing business as C. & G. Cooper & Co., defendants, who
were summoned, &e., of a plea of trespass on the case upon
promises.
"For that, whereas, the said defendants on, to wit, the first
day of May, 1870, at Baltimore, to wit, at Chicago, in the district aforesaid, were indebted to the plaintiffs in the sum of
$5000," &c.

Oct. 1874.]

CooPER & Co. v. COATES & Co.

107

Statement of the case.

And throughout the rest of the declaration the parties
were referred to as "plaintiffs" and " defendants," without
any addition of "as copartners as aforesaid," or any intimation that the parties were copartnerswhen the considerations
were received and the promises, described in the different
counts, made.
Plea: The general issue.
On the trial the plaintiffs, to prove the delivery of the iron
at Mount Vernon, Ohio, offered to read in evidence the deposition of one White, an agent of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company at Mount Vernon, Ohio, and in its employ during January and February, 1870. Having testified
to the delivery, at the time alleged, of iron to the amounts
alleged, he said on cross-examination:
"I have a distinct recollection of the iron being received at
the depot, and of the same being delivered to the teamsters of
C. & G. Cooper & Co., but the time of receiving and the date of delivery, and the weights of the iron, I derive from papers and books."
The defendants objected to so much of the answers as related to the time of receiving and delivery, and the weights,
on the gr und that the papers and books referred to by the
witness were not attached to his deposition or offered in
evidence; and that the non-production was not in any manner accounted for; and on the further ground that the witness did not state, and that it did not otherwise appear that
the papers and books were written or kept by him or by any
one in the usual course of business. The court overruled
the objections, and permitted the part of the answer objected
to to be read, stating that the fair presumption was that the
books and papers referred to were the books kept by the
witness in the course of his business as railroad agent. The
defendants ,excepted.
The plaintifs then showed by several witnesses that the
iron was shipped to the defendants from the plaintiffs' manufactory in Baltimore, in pursuance of written orders from
the defendants to them, the orders being signed in the firm
name of C. & G. Cooper & Co., and that the iron shipped

COOPER & CO. V.

COATES & 00.

[Sup Ct

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

was marked C. & . Cooper & Co., and shipped on board the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad by the plaintiffs so marked, at
Baltimore, a few days prior to the dates mentioned in the
deposition of White, and that the bills of lading for these
shipments were mailed by one of the plaintiffs to C. & J.
Cooper & Co., Mount Vernon, Ohio, and never came back
to the plaintiffs to their knowledge, and that they would
have known it if they had come back.
No evidence was given of any partnership of the plaintiffs,
nor evidence of any express agreement on the part of the
defendants, to pay any interest on the bills or account; nor
express evidence that the account sued upon had been adjusted by the defendants.
It was shown, however, that the plaintiffs at Baltimore,
shortly after they shipped the iron in question, had drawn a
draft on the defendants, at Mount Vernon, which had been
returned for non-acceptance.
The court charged the jury1. That it was not necessary for the plaintiffs to prove the
partnership or joint liability of the defendants, because such
proof was rendered unnecessary by the statute of Illinois.
2. That it was unnecessary for the plaintiffs to prove that
they were partners or joint payees, because such proof was
rendered unnecessary by the same statute.
8. That the jury, if they found for the plaintiffs, should
allow interest in their estimates of damages on the account
from the date of the receipt by the defendants of the last
item of the iron, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.
Verdict and judgment having been given accordingly, the
defendants brought the case here.
Mr. S. W. Packard,for the plain tiffs in error:
1. The evidence of White as to dates of receiving and delivery, and as to weight, were plainly inadmissible, and its
reception is of itself ground of reversal.*
* Price v. The Earl of Torrington, 1 Smith's Leading Cases (7th American edition), pp. 535-575; Walter v. Ballman, 8 Watts, 544, Kent v. Garvin, 1 Gray, 148.

Oct. 1874.]

COOPER

& Co. v. COATES & CO.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

The statute of the State of Illinois does not take this case
out of the common-law rule, that in an action ex eontractu
against several, the plaintiff at common law must prove a
joint contract or liability. The act is expressly limited to
actions "against two or more defendants aspartnersor joint
obligors or payors." And the Supreme Court of Illinois, in
construing the act, say:
"When they are sued as partners they should be described as
such in the declaration."*
The mere fact that the plaintiffs have in the commencement of their declaration added to the names of the defendants the words "copartners doing business as C. & G. Cooper
& Co.," does not amount to an averment that they contracted
or promised as partners. It is descriptio personarum, mere
surplusage, and has been so held by the Supreme Court of
Illinois in a similar case arising under this same statute.t
2. Interest was not allowable. In Illinois the whole subject of interest is regulated by statute, and this statute has
received a construction by the courts of Illinois in Sammis v.
Clark el al.,J a case which was for goods sold. The Supreme
Court of Illinois, after citing the statute, say:
"It is a rule in the construction of statutes that the expression
of one thing is the exclusion of another, and it may well-be insisted, when the legislature has enumerated a variety of cases,
in which creditors shall be allowed to receive interest, that it
was not their intention to permit them to demand it in the cases
not enumerated.
"The claim of the plaintiff is on an open account, and it is
manifest they are not entitled to interest under the statute unless it be under that clause which allows interest on money
withheld by an unreasonable and vexatious delay of payment.
"It follows from these positions that the simple forbearance
Petrie et al. v.Newell, 13 Illinois, 649.
t Johnson impleaded, &c., v. Buell et al., 26 Illinois, 68; Neteler im.
pleaded with Hurd v. Curlies et al., 18 Id. 188; Woodworth v. Fuller, 24 Id.
109, construing a similar statute relating to plaintiffs; Brent v.Shooks, 86
Id. 125.
$ 13 Illinois, p. 544.

COOPER & Co. v. COATES -& Co.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

of the plaintiffs to proceed in the collection of their debt, frorr
1845 to 1848, does not show anything vexatious on the part of
the defendant, or such a case as will of itself entitle the plaintiffs to interest."
Neither, in this case, can any "liquidating accounts between the parties and ascertaining the balance" be set up.
Ar. 0. K. A. Hutchinson, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The objections in this case are, none of them, serious in
their character.
By the rules of common law it is certainly necessary that
parties who sue as co-plaintifi, alleging themselves to be
partners, shall make proof of that allegation. The same is
true of persons who are alleged to be copartners, and sued
as such as defendants. By the statutes of Illinois the rule
of law is changed in this respect unless a plea in abatement
is interposed, or verified pleas are filed denying the execution of a writing set up. The statute rendered unnecessary
in this case proof of the partnership or joint liability of either
the plaintiffs or defendants.*
The objection to the evidence of the witness, White, in
stating the dates of delivery and the weight of the iron is
not practical. If we suppose the evidence to be stricken
out, as requested, the result of the case must necessarily be
the same. It would then stand thus: The witness, White,
testifies that he knows of the delivery to the defendants of
certain plates of iron, forwarded by the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company, in January and February, 1870; that
the freight bills were paid by the defendants, and that the
defendants made no complaint that the amount of the iron
was less than it should be. The plaintiffs then proved by
other witnesses that the four bills of iron were shipped by
them by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad to the defendants
11, 12; Warren v. Chandler, 12 Illi.
* Statutes by Gross, vol. i, p. 270,
nois, 124; 7dcKinny v. Peck, 28 Id. 174.

Oct. 1874.]

COOPER & Co. v. COATES & CO.

111

Opinion of the court.

in pursuance of written orders from them, marked C. & J.
Cooper & Co., a few days prior to the dates mentioned in
White's deposition; that the bills of lading for the iron were
mailed to the defendants, and that they never came back to
the plaintiffs. This was prinzOfacie evidence of the delivery
of the iron as specified, and, no proof to the contrary being
offered, it became conclusive. The plaintiffs' case is as well
without White's evidence as with it. The defendants suffer
no injury by its retention, and have, therefore, no legal cause
of complaint.*
The objection to the allowance of interest was not well
taken. So far as the case shows, this was the only transaction that ever took place between the parties; and it is not
pretended that any payments were made or articles furnished
by the defendants which could give the transaction the character of a mutual account. It was simply the case of a bill
of goods furnished upon a written order, and a bill of lading
of the articles at once mailed to the defendants. No objection was made by the defendants to the articles or to the
account. A draft was drawn upon the defendants for the
amount, which they refused to accept. This was equivalent
to a demand of payment. An account (assuming this to be
such) draws interest after liquidation, and it is considered
liquidated after it is rendered, if no objection is made.t
A sale of goods without a term of credit given is liquidated
when contracted, and after the account is presented and impliedly admitted, the defendants are in default and chargeable with interest.J
JUDGM ENT AFFIRMED.

Shay -n.The People, 22 New York, 317; Sherman v. Johnson, 56 Barhour, 59; Weber v. Kingsland, 8 Bosworth, 415.
f Patterson v. Choate, 7 Wendell, 441.
$ Been v. Reynolds, 11 New York, 97; Pollock v. Ehle, 2 E. D. Smith,
541.

