U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER C0.
220

Syllabus.

mark to say, as observed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that petitioner knew better than any one whether or not
he was guilty and that under the evidence a plea of guilty
was a reasonable thing. These suggestions might bear
upon the weight of admissible evidence but they have no
relation to the admissibility of a withdrawn plea.
Courts frequently permit pleas of guilty to be withdrawn and pleas of not guilty to be substituted. We
have cited all the decisions, state and federal, which have
come to our attention, that pass on the question here presented. The small number indicates that in this country
it has not been customary to use withdrawn pleas as
evidence of guilt. Counsel have cited no case, and we
have found none, in which the question has been considered in English courts.
We think the weight of reason is against the introduction in evidence of a plea of guilty withdrawn on order of
court granting leave and permitting the substitution of
a plea of not guilty.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.
UNITED STATES v. STONE & DOWNER COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF CUSTOMS

APPEALS.
No. 150. Argued February 24, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.
1. A judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals deciding the classification of goods and the duty upon their importation is not res
ludicata, estopping the Government, upon another importation of
the same kind of goods by the same importer. P. 230.
2. This rule was established by the Court of Customs Appeals during
the years succeeding its creation when its jurisdiction over such
customs cases was exclusive and final, and for that reason and
55514'-28-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for the United States.

274 U. S.

because of the wisdom of the rule as applied to the peculiar subject
matter, this Court upholds it. P. 235.
3. In par. 18 of the Emergency Tariff Act of May 27, 1921, imposing
duties on "wool, commonly known as clothing wool," the term
"clothing wool" is to be interpreted in its natural and usual meaning of wool used in making clothing and not in its commercial or
trade meaning of wool used in the carding process, as distinguished
from that used in the combing process, in the making of yam.
P. 237.
4. The rule giving controlling weight to commercial or trade meanings
of words designating particular kinds of goods in tariff acts, is but
an aid in ascertaining the intent of Congress and must yield where
the words used and the history and manifest object of the provision
show clearly that other meanings were intended. Pp. 239, 247.
5. In this instance, the words "commonly known as," evince an
intention to adopt the common meaning of "clothing wool," in
accord with the purpose of Congress to protect the wool market
in this country and increase the revenue, while acceptance of the
trade meaning of "clothing wool" would permit combing wool,
constituting one-half of the wool of which clothing is made, to be
imported free of duty, in defeat of that purpose. P. 248.
6. Testimony of expert witnesses is admissible to prove the ordinary
meaning of the terms "clothing wool," and "carpet wool," used in
a tariff classification. P. 245.
12 Cust. Appls. 557, reversed.

CERTioRA I (269 U. S. 542) to a judgment of the Court
of Customs Appeals which affirmed the Board of General
Appraisers, G. A. 8842, 46 T. D. 142, in classifying certain importations of wool in the fleece and in yarn and in
cloth as entitled to free entry, under the Tariff Act of
October 3, 1913, and as not subject to duty as "clothing
wool" and manufactures thereof, under paragraphs 18
and 19 of the Act of May 27, 1921. The judgment of the
Board sustained protests of the importers against assessments made by the collector under the latter enactment.
The importations in this case were nine in number.
In a previous case, not reviewed here, there were thirteen.
See 12 Cust. Appls. 557; G. A. 8613; T. D. 141. The

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Argument for Respondents.

issue was exactly the same in both cases, except that the
thirteenth importation in the first case was conceded by
all parties to come within pars. 18 and 19. By error, the
opinion originally filed treated the second case as involving the same number of importations. A petition for
rehearing was submitted and denied, but the error as to
the number of importations was corrected by order of
Court, October 10, 1927.
Mr. William W. Hoppin, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and
Assistant Attorney General Lawrence were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. Edward P. Sharretts for respondents.
Congress in prior tariff acts has recognized 'the classification of wool into clothing wool, combing wool and carpet
wool. Tariff Act of 1867, c. 197, 14 Stat. 559; Tariff Act
of 1883, c. 121,22 Stat. 488; Tariff Act of 1909, 38 Stat. 11.
If it has been its purpose to designate wool used in the
manufacture of wearing apparel, it is obvious that the
term "clothing wool" would have been the last term
adopted, knowing as it must be presumed Congress did
know, its legislative history and the fact that this particular term was in general common use among those to whom
the law was directed, and who would necessarily have to
conduct their business under it.
The mere fact that the term is widely used, discussed
and defined in official publications of the federal government, would in itself leave no doubt as to what Congress
understood to be its scope and meaning. As late as May
26, 1924, the Treasury Department in a regulation required importers to classify clothing wool and combing
wool separately on their customs entries. Cf. T. D. 40217
(45 Treas. Dec. 670); United States v. Buffalo Nat. Gas
Fuel Co., 78 Fed. 110; aff'd 172 U. S. 339; Merck v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Respondents.

274 U. S.

United States, 6 Ct. Cust. Appls. 32. Obviously the commercial understanding could not be excluded without excluding the only meaning in which the term is ever understood or used. The union of these various sources in a
common definition simply established what already
existed. Swan v. Arthur, 103 U. S. 597. Raw wool because of its very nature exists only as an article of commerce. Laws imposing duties upon imported merchandise are intended for practical use and application by men
engaged in commerce and presumably are drafted in language understood by those to whom they are necessarily
directed. In re Two Hundred Chests of Tea, 9 Wheat.
438; Elliott v. Swartout, 10 Pet. 137; IUnited States v.
Davies, 11 Ct. Cust. App. 392; Cooper v. Dobson, 157
U. S. 148; United States v. Hopewell, 51 Fed. 798.
If the phrase "usually known," in the provision involved in Cooper v. Dobson did not make the meaning of
the term "combing wool" ambiguous, there is no reason
why the synonymous phrase "commonly known" should
make the same term ambiguous in the present enactment.
Even where the terms of an act are obscure or ambiguous, this Court has never authorized an indiscriminate
search for intent through the journals of the legislature.
Duplex Co. v. Deering,254 U. S. 443; PennsylvaniaR. Co.
y. InternationalCoal Co., 230 U. S. 184. It must be presumed that the assessment of duty on clothing wool met
the emergency just as Congress intended that it should,
and provided the intended protection, and that an assessment of duty on "combing wool" was not deemed necessary or expedient in order to accomplish the purpose.
Chung Fook v. White, 264 U. S. 443; United States v.
Citroen, 223 U. S. 407; Pennington v. Coxe, 2 Cr. 33.
It is useless for petitioner to attempt to show that it was
the policy of the Government to include what the statute
omits. United States v. First Nat. Bank, 234 U. S. 245.

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

229

Opinion of the Court.

Even if there was no good reason why combing wool
should have been omitted, that would not constitute a.
reason for its being interpolated by the Court. Bates
Ref. Co. v. Sultzberger, 157 U. S. 1. The rule against
enlarging the subject-matter of a statute by judicial interpretation has been applied with great particularity in
the case of statutes levying taxes including customs duties.
Eidman v. Martinez, 184 U. S. 578; Gould v. Gould, 245
U. S. 151; United States v. Merriam, 263 U. S. 179;
Partingtonv. Atty. Gen., L. R. 4.
If the present question were one of doubt, the doubt
would be resolved in favor of the importer. American
Net Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; Hartranft
v. Weigmann, 121 U. S. 609; Benziger v. United States,
192 U. S. 38.
The doctrine 'of res judicata has a clear application to
the case at bar.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a proceeding by certiorari to review the judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals in the classification
for duty of nine importations of wool in the fleece, one
of cloth and one of yarn. 12 C. Cust. App. 557. The
certiorari was granted by this Court October 12, 1925,
269 U. S. 542, a certificate of importance by the Attorney General under § 195 of the Judicial Code, as amended
August 22, 1914, c. 267, 38 Stat. 703, having been filed in
the Court of Customs Appeals before the case was decided
in that court.
A similar case between the same parties, involving the
same questions and importations of similar merchandise,
was decided adversely to the Government by the Court
of Customs Appeals on November 17, 1923, Stone &

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Downer Co. v. United States, 12 Court of Customs Appeals Reports 62; 45 Treasury Decisions 167, T. D. 40019.
In that case, however, there was no certificate of importance filed by the Attorney General, and no application
was made for a writ of certiorari.
The case as now presented to this Court involves two
questions.
First, Is the judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals,
in November, 1923, involving the same customs classification an estoppel by res judicata against the Government?
Second, If it does not so operate, was the Court of
Customs Appeals right in holding that the importations
of wool herein are entitled to come in as wool of the
sheep under the Tariff Act of October 13, 1913 (c. 16,
88 Stat. 114), and not as clothing wool under paragraph
18 of the Emergency Tariff Act of May 27, 1921 (c.14,
42 Stat. 9, 10)?
First Question. It is settled in this Court that the
general rule by which a judgment estops the parties in
future litigation between them, to question either a fact
or a point of law necessary to the first judgment and
adjudicated therein, applies to cases of taxation as well
as to other subjects of litigation. This was decided in
the case of New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371.
That was a tax suit, and the issue was whether the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, in holding that
the Citizens' Bank had exemption by contract from certain taxation, was res judicataand estopped the city from
attempting to enforce subsequent taxes contrary to the
same exemption. The Court, through Mr. Justice White,
said (p. 396):
"The proposition that because a suit for a tax of one
year is a different demand from the suit for a tax for
another, therefore res judicata can not apply, whilst admitting in form the principle of the thing adjudged, in

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

reality substantially denies and destroys it. The estoppel
resulting from the thing adjudged does not depend upon
whether there is the same demand in both cases, but
exists, even although there be different demands, when
the question upon which the recovery of the second demand depends has under identical circumstances and
conditions been previously concluded by a judgment
between the parties or their privies."
This is not the rule in a number of the States. City
of Newport v. Commonwealth, 106 Ky. 434; Louisville
Bridge Co. v. City of Louisville, 81 Ky. 189; Bank v.
Memphis, 101 Tenn. 154; State v. Bank, 95 Tenn. 221,
231; Georgia Railroad& Banking Co. v. Wright, 124 Ga.
596, 603; MichiganSouthern, etc. R. R. v. People, 9 Mich.
448, 450; L. S. & M. S. R. R. v. People, 46 Mich. 193,
208; C. B. & Q. R. R. v. Cass County, 72 Neb. 489, 491;
Adams v. Yazoo & Miss. R. R., 77 Miss. 194, 266; State
v. American Sugar Refining Co., 108 La. 603. Judge
Cooley in his work on Taxation, 8th ed., says, at pages
2648-9, that the state courts, differing from this Court,
do not generally regard an adjudication as to taxes for
one year as making the decision of the supporting points
res judicata for the following years.
We have held that where, in a federal court, a judgment of a state court in a tax case is pleaded in a subsequent tax case arising in a federal court, the estoppel
from the judgment of the state court will not be given
greater effect than it would have in the state court, and
that a judgment not operating as res judicata in suits
for taxes for another year in the state court will not be
an estoppel in a federal court for subsequent years.
Phoenix Fire and Marine Insurance Co. v. Tennessee,
161 U. S. 174; Covington v. First National Bank of
Covington, 198 U. S.100.
The question here differs from that presented in ordinary tax suits, and mvolves the effect of an adjudication

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of a peculiar character. Prior to the passage of the McKinley Tariff Administrative Act, approved June 10, 1890
(c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, 136, § 12), litigation over the collection of duties and the classification of importations
under tariff acts was carried on by suits against the collectors who imposed the duties and was in the form of an
action against the collecting official as an individual.
After the judgment was obtained, the collecting officer
was relieved from personal obligation and the judgment
was paid from the Treasury of the United States. See
U. S. Rev. Stat., §§ 3009-3014. In 1890, new machinery
was introduced by which a board of nine general appraisers was created which, sitting in divisions of t~iree,
constituted in a sense administrative courts of appeals
to pass on questions of classification and the imposition
of duties; and appeals were allowed from it to the proper
circuit court of the United States, whence, upon an allowance of an appeal by the circuit court, the cases came
to this Court. By the Act of 1891, creating circuit courts
of appeals (26 Stat. 826, c. 517, § 6), these cases went
by appeal to those courts, and then by certiorari to this
Court. By the Tariff Act of August 5, 1909 (36 Stat.
11, 105, § 29), another change was made by which appeals
from the decisions of the Board of General Appraisers
were allowed to a new court created by the act, called the
Court of Customs Appeals, and by that act the whole
question of classification and refunding of duties was
taken out of the jurisdiction of the regular federal judiciary. The classification by the Court of Customs Appeals was made final, and no appeal was granted to this
Court. This independent plan for the settlement of tariff
questions, and the complete finality of the decisions of the
Court of Customs Appeals in that field of litigation, lasted
until August, 1914, when, by the Act of August 22 of that
year (c. 267, 38 Stat. 703), a limited review by writ of
certiorari was given to this Court of judgments of the

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Customs Appeals, in cases in which the construction of the Constitution, or any part thereof, or any
treaty made pursuant thereto, was drawn in question,
and in any other case when the Attorney General of the
United States should, before the decision of the Court of
Customs Appeals was rendered, file with the court a certificate that the case was of such importance as to render
expedient its review by this Court. For five years, however, the Board of General Appraisers and the Court of
Customs Appeals between them exercised complete jurisdiction in the construction of tariff acts and the determination of the amount due as duties from every importation
coming into the country. By the Act of 1909 (36 Stat.
105) the court was given power "to establish all rules
and regulations for the conduct of the business of the
Court and as might be needful for the uniformity of
decisions within its jurisdiction as conferred by law." It
was by the law to exercise exclusive appellate jurisdiction
in all cases as to the construction of the law and the facts
respecting the classification of merchandise and the rate
of duty imposed thereon under such classification, and the
fees and charges connected therewith, and all appealable
questions as to the jurisdiction of the Board of General
Appraisers, and all appealable questions as to the laws
and regulations governing the collection of the customs
revenues; and the judgment or decrees of said Court of
Customs Appeals were made final in all such cases. (p.
106). It was thus for five years put in a position where
it must not only make its own rules, but it must determine, as a practical matter, what should be the conclusive
effect of its own judgments in the determination of questions of fact and statutory construction and classification,
in subsequent cases brought before it by the same parties
and presenting similar issues. In the exercise of this jurisdiction, it established the practice that the finding of fact
and the construction of the statute and classification

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

thereunder, as against an importer, was not res judicata
in respect of a subsequent importation involving the same
issue of fact and the same question of law.
In Beuttell & Sons v. United States, 8 U. S. Court of
Customs Appeals Reports, 409, the question was whether
machine-made Wilton rugs were dutiable under par. 300
of the Tariff Act of 1913, or under par. 294 by virtue of
par. 303 of that act. In delivering the opinion of the
court, Judge Barber, who has been a member of the court
since its organization, in 1909, used this language:
"At the outset it should be noted that the precise
issue here has been before and decided by this court
in Beuttell & Sons v. United States (7 Ct. Cust. Appls.,
356; T. D. 36905). The Government, being of opinion
that such issue, which was there decided adversely to its
contention, ought again to be here considered, and following a recognized practice in customs litigation, has
made up a new record, which for practical purposes results
as a retrial of the former case."
It is clear that this has been the practice since the
beginning of the court. See Stone & Downer Co. v.
United States, 4 U. S. Court of Customs Appeals, 47. In
United States v. Hearst Company, 49 Treasury Decisions,
854, T. D. 41584, the court said:
"Precisely the same kind of merchandise was under
consideration in Hearst & Company v. United States, 12
Court of Customs Appeals, 81; T. D. 40021. The record
of the evidence, in that case is incorporated in this and it
is agreed that this case is, in effect, a retrial of the issues
involved in that upon additional testimony introduced on
behalf of the government, none having been offered by it
in the earlier case."
Provision for just such rehearings was made in the rules
of procedure and practice adopted by the Board of General Appraisers (35 Treasury Decisions, 113, Rule 22) as
follows:

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

"Where a question of the classification of imported
merchandise is under consideration for decision by any
one of the boards and the decision has been previously
made involving the classification of goods of substantially
the same character, the record and testimony taken in
the latter case may, within the discretion of the board,
be admitted as evidence in the pending case on motion of
either the Government or the importer or on the board's
own order: Provided, That either party may have any one
or more of the witnesses who testified in such case summoned for re-examination or cross-examination as the case
may be. The rule shall, furthermore, apply to the printed
records which may have been acted on by the courts in
the case of appeals taken from the decisions of the board."
There would seem to be an analogy between the proper
respect of this Court for the conclusion of the Court of
Customs Appeals upon the question of the estoppel of its
own decisions, when it was an independent court not subject to review by this Court, and our respect for judgments of the state courts, in limiting the application of
the estoppel of their decisions in tax cases, and unless some
controlling reason exists why we should overrule the established practice in this matter of the Court of Customs
Appeals, now that the power of review of some of its
judgments has been given us, we should follow it.
We think that, not only was it within the power of the
Court of Customs Appeals to establish the practice, but
that it was wise to do so. The effect of adjudicated controversies arising over classification of importations may
well be distinguished from the irrevocable effect of ordinary tax litigation tried in the regular courts. There of
course should be an end of litigation as well in customs
matters as in other tax cases; but circumstances justify
limiting the finality of the conclusion in customs controversies to the identical importation. The business of importing is carried on by large houses between whom and

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the Government there are innumerable transactions, as
here for instance in the enormous importations of wool,
and there are constant differences as to proper classifications of similar importations. The evidence which may be
presented in one case may be much varied in the next.
The importance of a classification and its far-reaching
effect may not have been fully understood or clearly known
when the first litigation was carried through. One large
importing house may secure a judgment in its favor from
the Customs Court on a question of fact as to the merchandise of a particular importation, or a question of
construction in the classifying statute. If that house can
rely upon a conclusion in early litigation as one which is
to remain final as to it, and not to be reheard in any way,.
while a similar importation made by another importing
house may be tried and heard and a different conclusion
reached, a most embarrassing situation is presented. The
importing house which has, by the principle of the thing
adjudged, obtained a favorable decision permanently
binding on the Government will be able to import the
goods at a much better rate than that enjoyed by other
importing houses, its competitors. Such a result would
lead to inequality in the administration of the customs
law, to discrimination and to great injustice and confusion.
In the same way, if the first decision were against a large
importing house, and its competitors instituted subsequent litigation on the same issues, with new evidence or
without it, and succeeded in securing a different conclusion, the first litigant, bound by the judgment against it
in favor of the Government, must permanently do business in importations of the same merchandise at great and
inequitable disadvantage with its competitors.
These were doubtless the reasons which actuated the
Court of Customs Appeals when the question was first
presented to it to hold that the'general principle of res
judicatashould have only limited application to its judg-

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

ments. These are the reasons, too, why the principle
laid down by this Court in the decision already referred
to, in New Orleansv. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, should
not apply or control. There, the thing adjudged was the
existence of an immunity of the property of a bank from
taxation, due to a contractual obligation of the state or
city government to the bank,-a personal relation which
might without embarrassment and with much more safety
be permanently fixed for one tax payer than a question
of fact or law affecting discriminatingly one of a whole
class of importers and giving the exceptional operation in
its favor of a general tariff on articles of merchandise
largely imported. The fact that objection to the practice
has never been made before, in the history of this Court
or in the history of the Court of Customs Appeals in
eighteen years of its life, is strong evidence not only of
the wisdom of the practice but of general acquiescence in
its validity. The plea of res judicata,can not be sustained
in this case.
Second question. Paragraph 18 of the Emergency
Tariff Act of 'May 27, 1921, c. 14, 42 Stat. 9, 10, under
which the wool was classified for duty herein, is as follows:
"Wool, commonly known as clothing wool, including
hair of the camel, angora goat, and alpaca, but not such
wools as are commonly known as carpet wools: Unwashed, 15 cents per pound; washed, 30 cents per pound;
scoured, 45 cents per pound.
"
Paragraph 19 is as follows:
"Wool and hair of the kind provided for in paragraph
18, when advanced in any manner or by any process of
manufacture beyond the washed or scoured condition,
and manufactures of which wool or hair of the kind provided for in paragraph 18 is the component material of
chief value, 45 cents per pound in addition to the rates
of duty imposed thereon by existing law."
The respondents claim, and the Court of Customs Appeals held, that all but one of these importations in the

.238

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

fleece were entitled to free entry under par. 650 of the
free list of the Tariff Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat.
114, 164, as follows:
"650. Wool of the sheep, hair of the camel, and other
like animals, and all wools and hair on the skin of such
animals, and paper twine for binding any of the foregoing.

"

and that yarn of the importations was dutiable only under par. 287, p. 142, as follows:
"287-Yarns made wholly or in chief value of wool, 18
per centum ad valorem."
Wool clothing is made from wool yarn prepared either
by the carding process or by the combing process. The
adaptability of the raw wool for one or the other is determined chiefly by the length of the staple, so that wools
used for clothing are often described in the trade as short
wools or long wools. The exact question is whether paragraph 18 includes in the term clothing wool, long staple
or combing wool as well as short staple or carding wool.
They are both used in clothing. Carpet wools are ordinarily not used for clothing. They are generally too
coarse for that purpose but are well adapted and generally
used for the making of carpets. They are not grown in
the United States, so that there is no motive for putting
a tariff on them to protect domestic growers or the home
markets.
In the case between the same parties, presenting the
same issues in 1923, the Board of General Appraisers by a
majority of two to one gave judgment for the Government. Stone & Downer Co. v. United States, 43 Treasury
Decisions, 141, T. D. 39473. One held that the words
"wool commonly known as clothing wool" must be given
their ordinary non-trade meaning of wool used for clothing, and therefore included both carding and combing
wools. His view was that evidence of the technical or
commercial meaning of clothing wool was not relevant and

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

was excluded by the words " commonly known as." The
other General Appraiser, supporting the Government
view, examined the evidence at length and found from it
that the first great division among wools was between
clothing wools and carpet wools, and that while, in the
trade, clothing wools were divided into and were distinguished commercially as clothing wools and combing
wools, the expression "commonly known as clothing
wool," as testified by competent witnesses of large experience, included wool for clothing, whether treated by
the carding or combing process.
The Customs Court, on appeal, held that if there was
a trade term to determine classification under a tariff act,
the overwhelming weight of authority showed that it must
prevail over the ordinary meaning if different, and that
under this rule of construction clothing wool was wool
used in the carding process, as distinguished from that
used in the combing process, in the making of cloth.
Stone & Downer Co. v. United States, 12 Court of Customs Appeals Reports, 62.
When the case now in hearing came before the Board
of General Appraisers, the Board unanimously gave judgment for the importers, following the previous judgment
of the Court of Customs Appeals on the same issues in
the case presented in 1923, and this action was affirmed
by the Court of Customs Appeals. United States v.
Stone & Downer Co., 12 Court of Customs Appeals Reports, 557. The record contains all the evidence in the
first case, and the new evidence introduced by the Government in the second case, in accord with Rule XXII
of the Board of General Appraisers, already referred to.
In this case, as in every other involving the interpretation of a statute, the intention of Congress is an all
important factor. The greatest light is thrown on that
intention in this case by an examination of the existing
conditions and the anticipated evils against which by
this legislation Congress sought to protect the country.

W4

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

When the Emergency Tariff Act was passed, we had
been through the greatest war of history and were attempting to return to peace conditions, and had reached
a time, in 1920, when business was bad and financial
disaster threatened. The result of the Congressional
elections in November, 1918, was to change the political
complexion of the House and Senate. Before that Congress finished its term, in the winter of 1920--1921, an
emergency tariff bill was introduced to relieve the agricultural depression which was at hand. Such a bill went
through Congress, but was vetoed. The National administration changed on the succeeding 4th of March, 1921.
With a new Congress and new Executive, another emergency tariff bill like the one already vetoed was introduced. The Committee on Ways and Means of the new
House of Representatives, in recommending the passage
of the bill (1 House Reports, 67th Congress) 1st Session,
page 1), commented on the serious obstacles to the revival of industry in the paralysis of agriculture. It
pointed out that th e purchasing power of the farmers
had been in large part destroyed and must be restored,
and called attention to the fact that we were in the grip
of a nation-wide industrial and business depression, and
that agriculture was hardest hit.
Coming then to the subject of wool, as one of the
agricultural products needing legislative aid, the report
said:
"(1) In previous years the average production of wool
in the United States was 314,000,000 pounds and average
imports 203,000,000 pounds.
"During the war imports increased in response to
increased manufacturing to about 445,893,000 pounds in
1919, and declined to 259,618,000 pounds in 1920.
"(2) Both importation and consumption of wool have
decreased since May. However, there has been a large
increase for January and February, 1921. Importations

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

in recent months appear to be speculative, in anticipation
of tariffs.
"(3) The stocks of wool on hand were large when the
price slump came last May. To the stocks on hand was
added the new clip of 280,000,000 pounds.
"(4) The accompanying tables show the wool supply
in sight to be near 1,000,000,000 pounds. The normal
consumption is about 600,000,000 pounds, with about
400,000,000 pounds carried as stock. A year's supply
is in sight at normal consumption. At the present rate
of consumption (about two-thirds normal) the supply
would be sufficient for a year and a half.
"(5) The effect of an embargo or high tariff would be
to gradually increase the prices.
"The justification for an emergency tariff is:
"(a) A fundamental industry that it takes years to
develop is facing ruin.
"(b) The prosperity of large numbers of people, not
sheep growers, is dependent on the sheep industry.
Hence, merchants and bankers who have made large advances to sheep producers are in serious financial trouble
and favor a wool tariff.
"(c) At present the supply of wool in the United States
is approximately 650,000,000 pounds, of which 175,000,000
pounds is held by the producers. With the coming 1921
wool clip the amounts controlled by producers would be
approximately 450,000,000 pounds, while the dealers would
hold approximately 500,000,000 pounds. Therefore, the
benefit derived from a tariff would be equally divided
between producers and the dealers and manufacturers.
Undoubtedly any tariff on wool would reflect in the price
of finished goods and the charge passed on to the consumer.
"(d) Wool dealers who purchased wool stocks at
higher prices than now obtain are in serious financial
straits and would be directly benefited. Forced liquida55514*-2S---16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

tion on the part of wool dealers would make the present
bad situation worse and break a trade organization of
value to agriculture.
"(e) It can be shown that the price of wool is so small
a factor in the ultimate cost of manufactured goods that
no large burden need be placed on the consuming public."
The same report was adopted without change by the
Finance Commitee of the Senate in recommending the
bill to that body. 1 Senate Reports, 67th Congress, 1st
Session, page 6. The bill passed both Houses and was
approved May 27, 1921.
The situation as set forth in the Ways and Means
Report, as to the wool market of the World in 1921, was
confirmed in a pamphlet issued by the United States
Tariff Commission at Washington in 1922, on "Recent
Tendencies in the Wool Trade," in which it said (p. 1):
"For the pre-war years 1909 to 1913, inclusive, the
world's annual production of raw wool averaged approximately 3,335,242,000 pounds, of which about 30 per cent.
was carpet wools. Of this amount 587,350,000 pounds
were produced in South America, 157,761,000 in South
Africa, and 903,620,000 in Australasia, the three great exporting regions which supply the deficiencies in production of clothing wools of western Europe and North
America. For 1921, world production is estimated at
2,770,852,000 pounds, of which the three exporting regions above mentioned are credited with 491,269,000
pounds, 127,177,000 pounds and 798,443,000 pounds, respectively, or a decline in these areas of 231,000,000
pounds from pre-war production." (The italics are
ours.)
The Emergency Tariff Act, so designated by its terms,
was Title I of the law of Congress of May 27, 1921, c. 14,
which as a whole was entitled:
"An Act Imposing temporary duties upon certain agricultural products to meet present emergencies, and to

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

provide revenue; to regulate commerce with foreign
countries; to prevent dumping of foreign merchandise
on the markets of the United States; to regulate the
value of foreign money; and for other purposes."
The Emergency Tariff Act imposed for the period of
six months from the date of the Act, May 27, 1921, a
tariff on the following articles: wheat, flour, flax seed,
corn and maize, beans, peanuts, potatoes, onions, rice,
lemons, vegetable oils, sheep, beef, veal, mutton and
lamb, cotton and manufactures of cotton, in its paragraphs 18 and 19 on wool, on sugars, butter, cheese, milk,
wrapper and filler tobacco, apples, cherries, olives. °
Title II directed an investigation into the question
whether any industry of the United States is likely to
be injured by dumping of foreign goods upon our markets at less than market value. It provided for a special
dumping duty and a means of determining what that
should be, and it made that title the Anti-Dumping Act.
Title V provided for an increased duty on dyes and
chemicals, which title was to be known as the Dye and
Chemical Control Act.
The whole act was directed to protecting the markets
of the United States from being swamped by importations from abroad, and to increasing the revenue. Congress proposed to keep the wool market free from demoralization in the interests of the wool growers of the
country, on the one hand, and the owners of wool stocks
on hand in the country, on the other.
It was asserted in the argument on behalf of the Government, and the assertion was acquiesced in by counsel
for the importers, that at least half in weight and value
of the importations of wool from which clothing is made
is combing wool. The contention of the importers in
this case, if successful, would therefore bring about the
result that half, both in weight and in value, of the
foreign wool in competition with wool produced in the

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

United States and with the stocks of wool on hand in
the United States, would not be kept out of its markets
by the emergency tariff at all, and that the swamping
of the domestic wool markets to that extent would continue under the free importation of combing wools.
More than this, such combing wools as would come in
under the emergency tariff, if construed as the Government contends, would produce as much revenue as the
carding wools, and yet, by the importers' construction
that revenue would be lost.
If the language of the statute is such that such results
can not be avoided, of course it must be enforced accordingly. If Congress by its language has made a mistake,
and so has failed in its purpose, this Court can not supply by its decision the omission of a necessary legislative
provision to effect its purpose. With the intent of the
Act clearly in mind, however, we must see whether it is
true that the language used can only bear the construction insisted upon by the importers and upheld by the
Court of Customs Appeals, or whether there is a broader
and more reasonable construction that can be fairly
placed upon the statute which will serve the plain Congressional purpose.
From the 500 pages of the evidence, we find that, in
the custom of the trade, the term "clothing wool" applies to the short staple wool which is suitable for carding and which goes into what is known as the woolen
or felting process for making cloths of that character,
and the term "combing wool" refers to wool of longer
staple which goes into another process known as combing for making worsted cloths; that in the trade, clothing
wool and combing wool are thus contrasted; second, that
originally the worsted process could not be used with
the fine wools like the merino wools, because the staple
was not long enough; but that the development of combing machinery, particularly what is called the French

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

combing process, has enabled manufacturers to comb
wool of shorter staple than formerly, and to make it into
worsteds; and that, in addition to this, cross breeding
between the merino and other wools has increased the
length of the staple and the amount of available combing wools as compared with the carding wools, so that
the border line between the use of combing wools for
clothing and that of carding wool has changed; that the
definitions in the principal dictionaries and encyclopedias
set forth the same trade distinction between clothing
wool and combing wool, as between manufactures of
wool, and manufactures of worsteds; that both clothing
wool and combing wool are largely grown in this country.
The expert witnesses of the importers generally testified
that there was no other meaning for clothing wool but
carding wool. There was other substantial evidence, however, from expert witnesses for the Government, of large
experience in dealing in wool, who testified that, speaking
generally, and in ordinary parlance, wools were divided
into clothing wools and carpet wools with reference to
their chief use, and that it was only in the trade in the
grading and sorting of wools and in their purchase and sale
that the term clothing wool was distinguished from combing wool. The competency and relevancy of such evidence as to the ordinary meaning of language in tariff
classifications is sustained by the decision of this Court
in Robertson v. Salomon, 130 U. S. 412, 415.
The natural and usual meaning of the words "clothing
wool" is wool for clothing. That is what the non-expert
reader of the words would understand until he was advised
of a different meaning by reason of the language of the
trade. When, therefore, the words are used "commonly
known as clothing wools," the ordinary inference from
the collocation of the words is that they refer to wool that
is used in making clothing. If Congress had intended that
the words "clothing wool" should have their commercial

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

designation, it would simply have used the words without qualification or it would have said "commercially
known as." It would not have used the phrase "commonly known m." The phrase indicates not only that
clothing wool is used in its ordinary or non-expert meaning, but is to serve the same purpose as the same phrase
in connection with carpet wools, in the same clause, by
indicating that, while these wools were capable of use for
other than clothing and carpets, respectively, they were to
be classified by reference~to their chief use.
In the world view which the committee report shows
clearly that the Congress was taking of the wool market,
it was not dealing with the processes by which wool was
made into cloth, and distinguishing between them. If
it had wished to make a distinction based on the process
of manufacture rather than on the material which was
to be used, it certainly would not have included, as expressly within the operation of paragraph 18, the hair of
the camel, the angora goat and the alpaca; for in preparing those materials for the making of cloth the hair is
always combed and never carded. It had chiefly in mind,
as shown by the contrast made in paragraph 18, the distinction between wool which was made into carpets and
could not be grown in the United States, and wool made
into clothing which could be, and was, grown in the United
States and in England and on the continent and in South
America, Australasia and South Africa. The world view
of the production of wools which affected Congress in
enacting this legislation is also revealed in the passage
from the Tariff Commission report, which we have already
quoted, where it refers to South America, South Africa
and Australasia as "the three great exporting regions
which supply the deficiencies in production of clothing
wools of western Europe and North America." This use
of the words "clothing wools" of course is used only in
contrast to the carpet wools which together with the cloth-

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

ing wools embrace the whole world production. We do
not find it difficult, therefore, in our interpretation of
paragraph 18 to give effect to the evident purpose of
Congress.
We are confronted by counsel for the importers with
the language to be found in many of our own cases giving
controlling effect in classification of merchandise for duty
in tariff acts to trade terms and commercial usage. It is
these cases also upon which the Court of Customs Appeals
relied in reaching its conclusion. Their principle has nowhere been more strongly stated than by Mr. Justice
Gray in the case of Cadwaladerv. Zeh, 151 U. S. 171, 176:
"It has long been a settled rule of interpretation of the
statutes imposing duties on imports, that if words used
therein to designate particular kinds or classes of goods
have a well known signification in our trade and commerce, different from their ordinary meaning among the
people, the commercial meaning is to prevail, unless Congress has clearly manifested a contrary intention; and
that it is only when no commercial meaning is called for
or proved, that the common meaning of the words is to be
adopted."
This statement is supported by a long line of authorities, one of which is Robertson v. Salomon, 130 U. S. 412,
415, in which Mr. Justice Bradley used the following
language:
"The commercial designation, as we have frequently
decided, is the first and most important designation to be
ascertained in settling the meaning and application of the
tariff laws. See Arthur v. Lahey, 96 U. S. 112, 118; Barber v. Schell, 107 U. S. 617, 623; Worthington v. Abbott,
124 U. S. 434, 436; Arthur's Executors v. Butterfield, 125
U. S. 70, 75. But if the commercial designation fails to
give an article its proper place in the classification of the
law, then resort must necessarily be had to the common
designation."

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

What we hold here is that Congress, by using the expression "commonly known as clothing wool," indicated
expressly its intention not to give to the expression
"clothing wool" the commercial designation that it has
when used in contrast with combing wool, and that the
history of the legislation shows that the trade or commercial meaning is contrary to the purpose of Congress in the
enactment of the law. In other words, the authorities
upon which the Court of Customs Appeals proceeded we
think have no application to the interpretation of this
act, save as they recognized that in the last analysis effect
must be given to the intention of Congress.
It should be noted that the tariff division of wools in
1867 was of three classes. Class 1-Clothing wool, wools
which are of merino blood and wools of like character.
Class 2-Combing wool, wools which are of the English
blood; and the hair of the alpaca, goat and other like
animals. Class 3-Carpet wools and other similar wools.
These divisions were continued in the Tariff Act of 1883.
In the Tariff Act of 1890 and in the Act of 1897, when
the duties on wool were restored after the free wool of the
Tariff Act of 1894, the division was made into three
classes, while the tariff divisions between clothing and
combing wools were dropped. Again, in the Act of 1909,
there was a division of three classes without reference
to the trade division between clothing and combing
wools.
There may have been other reasons for this change in
the acts of 1890, 1897 and 1909, but there were two,
already referred to, which were obvious, one arising from
the cross breeding of sheep, so that the staple in the
merino and like wools was lengthened thereby (see par.
380 of the McKinley Act, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 595), and the
other in the improvement in the combing process, so that
short wools of the merino blood which before could only
be carded and not combed, became combing wools in the

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

*trade sense and could be used for worsteds as well as for
woolen cloths. The merino wools were finer wools; and
as they became subject to combing by breeding and mechanical process, their use in making clothing was enlarged
and their value was enhanced. See Report of the Tariff
Commission on the Wool Growing Industry 1921-pages
428, 448. The result of these changes was that the first
class of wools in the acts of 1890, 1897 and 1909, included
many combing wools, while the first class under the Act
of 1883 was expressly designated as clothing wools. This
is illustrated in this case, in which the wools here imported
are partly merino wools by the blood and come from South
America, and yet twelve of the importations out of thirteen are combing wools, while the thirteenth was declared
doubtful by the experts and was held to be a clothing
wool by the Court of Customs Appeals.
A similar change, after 1890, took place in the lessening
of importance from a tariff standpoint of the trade distinction between manufactures of wool, the product of carding wool, and manufactures of worsted, the product of
combing wool; for while the names of woolens and worsteds were retained in the tariff acts from 1890 on, these
were usually classified together for the same duty.
In holding as we do in this case that the plain purpose of Congress requires the interpretation of the words
in their ordinary rather than their commercial or trade
meaning, we find full support in a case which was not
cited in the opinions of the courts below or in the briefs
of counsel on either side. We refer to the case of United
States v. Klumpp, 169 U. S. 209. That case turned on
paragraph 297 of the Wilson-Gorman Tariff Act of 1894,
28 Stat. 509, c. 349, passed in Mr. Cleveland's administration, to take the place of the McKinley Tariff Act of
1890, 26 Stat. 567, c. 1244. The new Act applied to all
imports from the date of its passage, August 27, 1894,
except merchanise covered by paragraph 297 which read
as follows:

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

"The reduction of the rates of duty herein provided.
for manufactures of wool shall take effect January first,
eighteen hundred and ninety-five."
The contention of the Government in that case, which
both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals
had upheld, Murphy v. United States, 68 Fed. 908, 72
Fed. 1008, was that, under the language of the McKinley
Act and the previous tariff acts for a great many years,
manufactures of wool and manufactures of worsteds were
separate subjects of importation, and that paragraph 297
postponing the reduction of duties on manufactures of
wool, did not apply to manufactures of worsteds. It had
been expressly decided by this Court in Seeberger v. Cahn,
137 U. S. 95, 97, that cloths popularly known as diagonals,
and in the trade as worsteds, were subject to duty under
the Act of March 3, 1883, as manufactures of worsteds and
not as manufactures of wool. It was admitted that the
merchandise in controversy was worsted dress goods made
from the fleece of the sheep, which had been combed and
spun into worsted yarn, and paid a high duty under the
McKinley Act. By the Act of May 9, 1890, it was provided that worsted cloths should be classified as, and with,
woolen cloths, 26 Stat. 105, c. 200. That, however, seems
to have been repealed by the McKinley Act (Murphy v.
United States, 72 Fed. 1008, 1009), but though the words
wool and worsted continued to be used separately throughout the McKinley Act in description of the various materials for dress goods, they were classified together for duties.
There was no doubt about the commercial or trade meaning of manufactures of wool as distinguished from manufactures of worsteds, a distinction which exists today in all
woolen and clothing markets. This Court, however, in
view of the evident purpose of Congress in the paragraph
in question, found that there was no imperative ground
for the reinstatement of that trade distinction between
manufactures of wool and those of worsted, in construing
paragraph 297, although the two terms continued to be

U. S. v. STONE & DOWNER CO.
225

Opinion of the Court.

used separately in the McKinley and in the new Act of
1894. Referring to paragraph 297 and its words "Manufactures of Wool," the Court said (p. 215):
"The reason for the postponing of the taking effect of
the reduction of duties obviously had nothing to do with
the process of manufactures, but related to the material
of which the goods were composed, which material had
been relieved from duty by paragraph 685 of the act.
"Congress undoubtedly concluded that the manufacturers of goods from wool had laid in a large stock of
material, which equitably they should be allowed a reasonable time to work off, and that there was probably
on hand a large stock of goods, to dispose of which reasonable time should be allowed, rather than that the large
dealers should be induced to bring in foreign goods at a
cost which involved ruinous competition; while at the
same time the wool growers ought to have their original
market until they could adjust themselves to the new
condition of things.
"The specific rate was compensatory, and, when
stricken out, and the duty on raw material abolished, a
postponement was provided for in order to avoid injustice.
"But the reason for postponing the reduction on manufactures of wool, which, on the face of the act, we think
properly imputable to Congress, is as applicable to worsted goods as to any other goods fabricated from wool."
And the opinion concludes:
"We think that the words 'manufactures of wool,'
in paragraph 297, had relation to the raw material out of
which the articles were made, and that as the material of
worsted dress goods was wool, such goods fell within the
paragraph."
We think the Klumpp case very like the one at bar.
They both consider the same trade distinction between
different clothing wools growing out of the different processes used in the manufacture of the yarn, and reject its
application because of Congress's purpose. In both cases

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 IL S.

the trade distinctions had ceased to be important from
a tariff standpoint, and classification was made on a different basis from that of carding or combed wools, or
woolen cloth and worsted cloth. The trade distinctions
were very important in the transaction of business, but
not in the fixing of duties.
This Court was able, from the language and the circumstances in the Klumpp case, as it is here, to determine
what the purpose of Congress was in the use there of the
words "manufactures of wool," as in the words here,
"wool commonly known as clothing wool." Seeing
clearly that purpose, this Court held, in the Klumpp case,
as it holds here, that the case came within the exception
to the general rule for the use of trade terms in interpreting tariff acts. The exception was stated by Mr. Justice
Gray in Cadwaladerv. Zeh, supra-that "the commercial
meaning is to prevail unless Congress has clearly manifested a contrary intention; and that it is only when no
commercial meaning is called for or proved, that the common meaning of the words is to be adopted "; and by Mr.
Justice Bradley in 1hobertson v. Salomon, supra, where
he says, after stating the general rule, "but if the commercial designation fails to give an article its proper place
in the classifications of the law, then resort must necessarily be had to the common designation." In other words,
the pole star of interpretation of statutes, whether it be of
tariff acts or any other, must be the intention of Congress,
when that can be clearly ascertained and is reasonably
borne out by the language used.
Neither in the briefs presented to us nor in the opinions
of the courts below has there been a suggestion of a
reason why Congress should have distinguished, in its
attempt to avoid the demoralization of the wool markets
in this country and to increase the revenue, between
carding wool and combing Wool. The only argument of
the Court of Customs Appeals is, ita lex scripta est; and

