NICHOLS v. COOLIDGE.
501

Counsel for Parties.

In my opinion, then, the Coast Guard is authorized to
arrest American vessels subject to forfeiture under our
law, no matter what the place of seizure and no matter

what the law violated.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

joins in this opinion.

NICHOLS, COLLECTOR, v. COOLIDGE ET AL.,
EXECUTORS.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 88. Argued January 6, 7, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.

1. An absolute conveyance of real estate made without money consideration by deed to the grantor's children is not a transfer
intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after the
grantor's death within the intendment of §402, par. (c) of the
Revenue Act approved February 24, 1919, "Estate Tax," although
the premises were contemporaneously leasea by the grantees
to the grantor for one year or any. renewal thereof, but subject
to the lessors' right to terminate the term during any year, and
although the parties contemplated that the grantor should enjoy
the property for residential purposes as long as she desired, but
made no valid agreement to that effect. P. 538.
2. Section 402 (c), supra, in so far as it requires that there shall be
included in the gross estate the value of property transferred by a
decedent prior to its passage, merely because the conveyance was to
take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death, violates
the Fifth Amendment. P. 542.
4 F. (2d) 112, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court, recovered
by Coolidge and Loring, Executors, from Nichols, Collector, representing the amount of certain federal estate
taxes unlawfully assessed and collected over their protest.
Mr. Thomas H. Lewis, Jr., Attorney in the Bureau of
Internal Revenue, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell,

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Mr. A. W. Gregg, General Counsel, Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Mr. Newton K. Fox, Attorney in the
Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge, with whom Mr. Harold S. Davis
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
Messrs. Tyson S. Dines, Peter H. Holme, Harold D.
Roberts, J. Churchill Owen, Abram J. Rose, Leonard B.
Smith, Isaac B. Lipson, Russell L. Bradford, Henry C.
Eldert, Arthur D. Hill, Richard H. Wiswall, Arthur F.
Mullen, and Antoinette Funk filed briefs as amici curiae,
by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Defendants in error sued to recover additional federal
taxes exacted of the estate in their keeping. The cause
was heard upon an agreed statement; judgment went for
them on a directed verdict; and this writ of error, allowed
April 3, 1925, brings the matter here. In a comprehensive charge the trial court interpreted the law, but
gave no further opinion. 4 Fed. (2d) 112.
Mrs. Julia Coolidge, of Massachusetts, died January
6, 1921. As required by the Revenue Act approved February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1096, the executors
returned a schedule to the Collector. He estimated the
gross estate at $180,184.73 and allowed $77,747.74 deductions. They paid the amount assessed upon the balance.
Their return did not include certain property transferred
by the decedent through duly executed deeds and without valuable consideration, some to trustees and some
directly to her children. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue held that under § 402 (c) the value of all this
property at her death must be imlxided in the gross estate.

NICHOLS v. COOLIDGE.
531

Opinion of the Court.

He raised the assessment accordingly and demanded the
additional tax-34,662.65--here challenged.
July 29, 1907, Mrs. Coolidge and her husband owned
certain real estate in Boston, also valuable personal property, which they transferred without consideration to
trustees, who agreed to hold it and pay the income to the
settlors, then to the survivor, and after his death to distribute the corpus among the settlors' five children or
their representatives. The deed directed that the interest
of any child predeceasing the survivor should pass as provided by the statute of distribution "in effect at the time
of the death of such survivor." The trustees were authorized to sell the property, to make and change investments, etc. April 6, 1917, the settlors assigned to the
children their entire interest in the property, especially
any right to the income therefrom. At the death of Mrs.
Coolidge the trustees held property worth $432,155.35,
but through sales and changes much of what they originally received had passed from their possession.
May 18, 1917, by deeds purporting to convey the fee
Mrs. Coolidge-her husband joining-gave their five children two parcels of land long used by her for residences.
Contemporaneously the grantees leased these parcels to
the conveyors for one year at nominal rental, with provision for annual renewals until notice to the contrary.
All parties understood that renewals would be made if
either lessee wished to occupy the premises. When Mrs.
Coolidge died the value of this property was $274,300.
Plaintiff in error now maintains the above-described
transfers by Mrs. Coolidge were intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after death, within the
ambit of § 402 (c), Act February 24, 1919, and that the
value at her death of the property held by the conveyees
constituted part of her gross estate.
The court below held the transfer of the residences
(1917) was absolute; the right to possess, or enjoy them

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

did not depend upon death; and their value constituted
no part of the gross estate. Also, that under the statute
the value of the property conveyed to trustees in 1907
or resulting therefrom must be included in the gross estate, but, thus construed, the Act went beyond the power
of Congress.
Relevant portions of "Title IV-Estate Tax," Act
February 24, 1919, are printed below.* It undertakes to
* Sec. 401. That (in lieu of the tax imposed by Title II of the
Revenue Act of 1916, as amended, and in lieu of the tax imposed
by Title IX of the Revenue Act of 1917) a tax equal to the sum of
the following percentages of the value of the net estate (determined
as provided in section 403) is hereby imposed upon the transfer of
the net estate of every decedent dying after the passage of this Act,
whether a resident or nonresident of the United States:
1 per centum of the amount of the net estate not in excess of
$50,000;
2 per centum of the amount by which the net estate exceeds $50,000
and does not exceed $150,000;
3 per centum of the amount by which the net estate exceeds
$150,000 and does not exceed $250,000;
4 per centum of the amount by which the net estate exceeds
$250,000 and does not exceed $450,000;
6 per centum of the amQunt by which the net estate exceeds
$450,000 and does not exceed $750,000;
25 per centum of the amount by which the net estate exceeds
$10,000,000.
. .
Sec. 402. That the value of the gross estate of the decedent shall
be determined by including the value at the time of his death of all
property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the
time of his death which after his death is subject to the payment of
the charges againsi his estate and the expenses of its administration
and is subject to distribution as part of his estate;
(b) To the extent of any interest therein of the surviving spouse,
existing at the time of the decedent's death as dower, courtesy, or by
virtue of a statute creating an estate in lieu of dower or courtesy;
(c) To the extent of any interest therein of which the decedent
has at any time made a transfer, or with respect to which he has at
any time created a trust, in contemplation of or intended to take

NICHOLS v. COOLIDGE.
531

535

Opinion of the Court.

lay a charge equal to the sum of specified percentagesfrom one to twenty-five---" of the value of the net estate . . . upon the transfer of the net estate of every
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death (whether such
transfer or trust is made or created before or after the passage of
this Act), except in case of a bona fide sale for a fair consideration
in money or money's worth. Any transfer of a material part of his
property in the nature of a final disposition or distribution thereof,
made by the decedent within two years prior to his death without
such a consideration, shall, unless shown to the contrary, be deemed
to have been made in contemplation of death within the meaning of
this title;
(d) To the extent of the interest therein held jointly or as tenants
in the entirety by the decedent and any other person, or deposited in
banks or other institutions in their joint names and payable to either
or the survivor, except such part thereof as may be shown to have
originally belonged to such other person and never to have belonged
to the decedent;
(e) To the extent of any property passing under a general power
of appointment exercised by the decedent (1) by will, or (2) by deed
executed in contemplation of, or intended to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after, his death, except in case of a bona fide sale
for a fair consideration in money or money's worth; and
(f) To the extent of the amount receivable by the executor as
insurance under policies taken out by the decedent upon his own
life; and to the extent of the excess over $40,000 of the amount
receivable by all other beneficiaries as insurance under policies taken
out by the decedent upon his own life.
Sec. 403. That for the purpose of the tax the value of the net
estate shall be determined(a) In the case of a resident, by deducting from the value of the
gross estate [specified items and an exemption of $50,000] .
See. 408. . . . If the tax or any part thereof is paid by, or
collected out of that part of the estate passing to or in the possession
of, any person other than the executor in his capacity as such, such
person shall be entitled to reimbursement out of any part of the
estate still undistributed or by a just and equitable contribution by
the persons whose interest in the estate of the decedent would have
been reduced if the tax had been paid before the distribution of the
estate or whose interest is subject to equal or prior liability for the
payment of taxes, debts, or other charges against the estate, it being

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

decedent" dying thereafter.

274 U. S.

And it directs that the net

estate shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross
certain items and an exemption of $50,000. Also, "That
the purpose and intent of this title that so far as is practicable and
unless otherwise directed by the will of the decedent the tax shall be
paid out of the estate before its distribution. If any part of the
gross estate consists of proceeds of policies of insurance upon the life
of the decedent receivable by a beneficiary other than the executor,
the executor shall be entitled to recover from such beneficiary such
portion of the total tax paid as the proceeds, in excess of $40,000,
of such policies bear to the net estate. If there is more than one
such beneficiary the executor shall be entitled to recover from such
beneficiaries in the same ratio.
See. 409. That unless the tax is sooner paid in full, it shall be a
lien for ten years upon the gross estate of the decedent, except that
such part of the gross estate as is used for the payment of charges
against the estate and expenses of its administration, allowed by any
court having jurisdiction thereof, shall be divested of such lien. If
the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax liability of an estate has
been fully discharged or provided for, he may, under regulations
prescribed by him with the approval of the Secretary, issue his
certificate releasing any or all property of such estate from the lien
herein imposed.
If (a) the decedent makes a transfer of, or creates a trust with
respect to, any property in contemplation of or intended to take
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death (except in the
case of a bona fide sale for a fair consideratioh in money or money's
worth) or (b) if insurance passes under a contract executed by the
decedent in favor of a specific beneficiary, and if in either case the
tax in respect thereto is not paid when due, then the transferee,
trustee, or beneficiary shall be personally liable for such tax, and
such property, to the extent of the decedents interest therein at the
time of such transfer, or to the extent of such beneficiary's interest
under such contract of insurance, shall be subject to a like lien equal
to the amount of such tax. Any part of such property sold by such
transferee or trustee to a bona fide purchaser for a fair consideration
in money or money's worth shall be divested of the lien and a like
lien shall then attach to all the property of such transferee or trustee,
except any part sold to a bona fide purchaser for a fair consideration
in money or money's worth.

NICHOLS v. COOLIDGE,
531

537 "

Opinion of the Court.

the value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be
determined by including the value at the time of his
death of all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated "(a) To the extent of his interein therein subject to
the payment of charges against the estate, expenses of
administration, and subject to distribution. (b) The
dower or courtesy, etc., interest of the surviving spouse.
(c) To the extent of any interest therein of which the
decedent has at any time made a transfer, or with respect
to which he has at any time created a trust, in contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death (whether such transfer or trust
is made or created before or after the passage of this
Act), except in case of a bona fide sale for a fair consideration in money or money's worth. (d) Any interest
held jointly with another and payable to the survivor.
(e) Property passing under a general power of appointment. (f) The excess over $40,000 of insurance taken out
by the decedent upon his own life.
Edwards v. Slocum, 264 U. S. 61, 62, says of this tax:
"This is not a tax upon a residue, it is a tax upon a
transfer of his net estate by a decedent, a distinction
marked by the words that we have quoted from the statute, and previously commented upon at length in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 49, 77. It comes into existence before and is independent of the receipt of the
property by the legatee. It taxes, as Hanson, Death
Duties, puts it in a passage cited in 178 U. S. 49, 'not
the interest to which some person succeeds on a death,
but the interest which ceased by reason of death.' "
Y. M. C. A. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 47, 50: "What was being
imposed here [Act February 24, 1919] was an excise upon
the transfer of an estate upon death of the owner."

538

3 OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Concerning transfer of the residences in 1917, the trial
court charged"I do not have much difficulty in reaching a conclusion
respecting the deeds of the Boston and Brookline real
estate, and I will first consider the claims of the parties
respecting those transfers.
"The deeds conveyed, with warranty covenants, absolute and indefeasible title to the real estate without
any valid reservations, conditions or restrictions whatsoever.
"The leases, executed the same day, were for one year
or any renewal thereof but were always subject to the
right in the lessors to terminate the term during any year
by giving the notice as therein provided. It is conceded
that the parties contemplated that the premises would
be enjoyed by the decedent and her husband so long as
they might desire to use them for residential purposes,
but the decedent had no valid agreement to that effect.
Her rights must be held to be governed by the term of
the lease. If it could be said that the grantees did not
come into full possession and enjoyment of the estate at
the time of the conveyances-and I am inclined to the
opinion that they did-their right to come into full possession did not depend in the slightest degree upon the
death of the grantor. The effect of this transaction was
to vest in the five sons named in the deed full and complete title to the property including the right of disposition. They had a right to sell the property subject to
the lease and had all rights incident to ownership. There
was here a gift completed during the lifetime of the
donor. The act of 1918 did not purport to tax such
gifts.
"I have reached the conclusion, therefore, that respecting the property conveyed by the deed, the facts of this
case do not bring the property within the reach of the
statute and that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue

NICHOLS v. COOLIDGE.
531

539

Opinion of the Court.

was without authority to include the value of it as a part
of the gross estate. I, therefore, give the following
instructions, as requested by the plaintiffs: The real estate referred to in the second count of the declaration
was not a part of the net estate of Julia Coolidge within
the meaning of the Revenue Act of 1918."
We agree with this conclusion and accept as adequate
the reasons advanced to support it..
Counsel for the United States argue that the challenged subsection only undertakes to tax the transfer
from the dead and merely uses the gross estate to measure
the charge. Taken together, §§ 402, 408 and 409 disclose
definite purpose to do much more than tax this transfer.
Section 402 directs that the gross estate shall be ascertained by including (among other things) the value at
his death of all property "to the extent of any interest
therein of which the decedent has at any time made a
transfer, or with respect to which he has at any time
created a trust, in contemplation of or intended to take
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death
(whether such transfer or trust is made or created before
or after the passage of this Act), except in case of a bona
fide sale for a fair consideration in money or money's
worth." The language of this section inhibits the conclusion that only subsequent transfers are to be included.
Under Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S. 238, 251, only such
transfers come within § 402 (f). Shwab v. Doyle, 258
U. S. 529, 536, confined § 202 (b), Act September 8, 1916,
c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 777-prototypes of § 402 (c), Act
1919-to subsequent transfers. The emphatic words,
"whether such transfer or trust is made or created before
or after the passage of this Act," added by the latter Act,
evidently were intended to exclude a like construction.
Section 408 authorizes an executor to recover from one
who receives life insurance "such portion of the total tax
paid as the proceeds, in excess of $40,000, of such policies

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

bear to the net estate." Section 409 imposes a lien to
secure the tax upon the gross estate; and provides: "If
(a) the decedent makes a transfer of, or creates a trust
with respect to, any property in contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or
after his death (except in the case of a bona fide sale for
a fair consideration in money or money's worth) or (b)
if insurance passes under a contract executed by the
decedent in favor of a specific beneficiary, and if in either
case the tax in respect thereto is not paid when due, then
the transferee, trustee, or beneficiary shall be personally
liable for such tax, and such property, to the extent of
the decedent's interest therein at the time of such transfer, or to the extent of such beneficiary's interest under
such contract of insurance, shall be subject to a like lien
equal to the amount of such tax."
For the United States it is said that the imposition
under consideration is an exercise of the federal taxing
power and is imposed upon a transmission of property by
death. Also, that what Congress intended was to provide
a measure for the tax which would operate equally upon
all those who made.testamentary dispositions of their
property, whether this was by will or intestacy or only
testamentary in effect; the immediate purpose was not
to prevent evasions, for the statute applies to transactions completed when there was none to be evaded. And
the conclusion is that the measure adopted is reasonable, since the specified transactions are testementary in
effect.
But the conveyance by Mrs. Coolidge to trustees was
in no proper sense testamentary, and it bears no substantial relationship to the transfer by death. The mere
desire to equalize taxation cannot justify a burden on
something not within congressional power. The language of the statute is not consistent with the idea that
it utilizes the gross estate merely to measure a proper

NICHOLS v. COOLIDGE.
531

Opinion of the Court.

charge upon the transfer by death. See Lewellyn. v.
Frick, supra. Frick v. Pennsyivania, 268 U. S. 473, 494,
rejected a somewhat similar claim, and said-" Of course,
this was but the equivalent of saying that it was admissible to measure the tax by a standard which took no account of the distinction between what the State had
power to tax and what it had no power to tax, and which
necessarily operated to make the amount of the tax just
what it would have been had the State's power included
what was excluded by the Constitution. This ground,
in our opinion, is not tenable. It would open the way
for easily doing indirectly what is forbidden to be done
directly, and would render important constitutional limitations of no avail."
The exaction is not a succession tax like the one sustained by Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331. Keeney v. New
York, 222 U. S. 525. The right to become beneficially
entitled is not the occasion for it. There is no claim that
the transfers were made in contemplation of death or
with purpose to evade taxation. The provision applicable in such circumstances is not relied on and the extent
of congressional power to prevent evasion or defeat of
duly-imposed exactions need not be discussed.
Certainly, Congress may lay an excise upon the transfer of property by death reckoned upon the value of the
interest which passes thereby. But under the mere
guise of reaching something within its powers Congress
may not lay a charge upon what is beyond them. Taxes
are very real things and statutes imposing them are estimated by practical results.
As the executors paid the contested charge out of
property which actually passed by death, only their rights
are here involved. If the fund held by them had been
insufficient and payment had been exacted from others,
somewhat different questions might require consideration.
Lewellyn v. Frick, supra.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

.274U. S.

The statute requires the executors to pay an excise
ostensibly laid upon transfer of property by death from
Mrs. Coolidge to them but reckoned upon its value plus

the value of other property conveyed before the enactment in entire good faith and without contemplation of

death. Is the statute, thus construed, within the power
of Congress?
Undoubtedly, Congress may require that property subsequently transferred in contemplation of death be treated
as part of the estate for purposes of taxation. This is
necessary to prevent evasion and give practical effect to
the exercise of admitted power, but the right is limited
by the necessity.
Under the theory advanced for the United States, the
arbitrary, whimsical and burdensome character of the
challenged tax is plain enough. An excise is prescribed,
but the amount of it is made to depend upon past lawful
transactions, not testamentary in character and beyond
recall. Property of small value transferred before death
may have become immensely valuable, and the estate
tax, swollen by this, may leave nothing for distribution.
Real estate transferred years ago, when of small value,
may be worth an enormous sum at the death. If the
deceased leaves no estate there can be no tax; if, on the
other hand, he leaves ten dollars both that and the real
estate become liable. Different estates must bear disproportionate burdens determined by what the deceased
did one or twenty years before he died. See Frew v.
Bowers, 12 Fed. (2d) 625.
This court has recognized that a statute purporting to
tax may be so arbitrary and capricious as to amount to
confiscation and offend the Fifth Amendment. Brushaber
v. Union Pacific R. R., 240 U. S. 1, 24; Barclay & Co. v.
Edwards, 267 U. S. 442,450. See also Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41, 77. And we must conclude that § 402 (c)

