POX RIVER CO. v. R. R. COMM.
Counsel for Parties.

FOX RIVER PAPER COMPANY ET AL. v. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 492. Argued April 11, 12, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. The jurisdiction of this Court to review a judgment of a state court
is not affected by the circumstance that the right for which constitutional protection is claimed depends on the state law. P. 654.
2. When there is no question of evasion of the constitutional issue
furnishing the basis for review of the judgment of a state court of
last resort, this Court must accept as final the rulings of that court
on all matters of state law. P. 655.
3. The nature and -extent of the rights of the State and of riparian
owners in navigable waters within the State, and to the soil
beneath, are matters of state law to be determined by the statutes
and judicial decisions of the State. P. 655.
4. Where, by the law of the State, a riparian owner on a navigable
river, though having title to the bed of the stream, can gain no
right in the water power created by erecting a dam without the
consent of the State, a refusal by the State to permit maintenance
and repair of a dam so erected except upon conditions giving the
State an option to acquire in the future, at a non-compensatory
price, all the property used and useful under the permit, does not
deprive the owner of property in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 656.
189 Wis. 626, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, which sustained, by an equally divided court,
dismissal of a suit, in the nature of mandamus, to compel
the Railroad Commission to issue to the plaintiffs, permits
to repair and maintain a dam, under § 31.09 Wis. Stats.,
1925.
Messrs. Moses Hooper and Edward J. Dempsey, with
whom Mr. John F. K/uwin was on the briefs, for plaintiffs
in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Messrs. R. M. Rieser and Adolph Kanneberg, with
whom Mr. John W. Reynolds, Attorney General of Wisconsin, and Messrs T. L. McIntosh and Michael J. Dunn,
Jr., Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MI. JusTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiffs in error are riparian owners of land bordering on the Fox River, a navigable stream. They own a
dam at Appleton, Wisconsin, which has been maintained
since its construction in 1878 without permission from
any state authority. Since 1841 the statutes of the territory, and later of the state, have forbidden the building of a dam on any navigable river without legislative
consent. Laws, 1841, No. 9; R. S. 1849, c. 34; R. S.
1858, c. 41, § 2; 1 Wis. Stat., 1898, c. 70, § 1596; 1 Wis.
Stat., 1925, § 30.01 (2).
By § 31.02, Wis. Stat., 1925, the state railroad commission was given supervisory power over the navigable
waters of the state, and control of the construction and
maintenance of dams in navigable rivers. Section 31.07
authorizes it to grant permits to applicants to operate
and maintain existing dams. By § 31.09 every applicant
for a permit is required to file with his application proposals in writing, consenting, among other things, to the
grant of a permit subject to the condition "that the state
of Wisconsin, if it shall have the constitutional power,
or any municipality, on not less than one year's notice, at
any time after the expiration of thirty years after the
permit becomes effective, may acquire all of the property
of the grantee, used and useful under the permit, by paying therefor, the cost of reproduction in their then existing condition of all dams, works, buildings, or other structures or equipment, used and useful under the permit,
as determined by the commission, and by paying in addition thereto the value of the dam site and all flowage

FOX RIVER CO. v. R. R. COMM.
651

Opinion of the Court.

rights and other property as determined by the commission prior to the time the permit was granted, as provided in subsection (1), plus the amounts paid out for
additional flowage rights, if any, acquired after the valuation made by the commission as provided in subsection
(1); and that the applicant waives all right to any
further compensation."
Plaintiffs in error petitioned the commission for permits to maintain and repair their dam, which, they asserted, "does not materially obstruct navigation or violate other public or private rights or endanger life, health
or property." The application was rejected by the commission solely for want of jurisdiction, since the applicants had omitted to file the proposals required by
§ 31.09. Plaintiffs brought suit in the nature of a mandamus proceeding in the circuit court of Dane County,
Wisconsin, to compel the commission to take jurisdiction
of the application and to proceed to a hearing. The bill
drew in question the validity of § 31.09 under the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, alleging
that the determination of the commission acting under
the statute operated to deprive plaintiffs of their property without due process of law. The commission answered, admitting the allegations of fact of the bill, setting up that plaintiffs' dam had been constructed and
was maintained without a permit from the state, and that
the application had been dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The trial court gave final judgment on the pleadings for defendant in error, upholding the validity of this
act. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin affirmed by an
evenly divided court. 189 Wis. 626. The case is here
on writ of error. Jud. Code, § 237 (a), as amended.
The right set up in the bill is one under the Federal
Constitution. Whether the state court denied that right
or failed to give it due recognition is a question upon
which the plaintiffs are entitled to invoke the judgment

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of this Court. Our jurisdiction is not affected because
the existence of the right for which constitutional protection is claimed depends upon state law. Cf. West
Chicago B?. R. v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506; Ward v. Love
County, 253 U. S. 17, 22; Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Ry. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561;'
Appleby v. City of New York, 271 U. S. 364, 380.
Plaintiffs' case rests on the contention that by the law
of Wisconsin the rights vested in riparian owners include
the right to use the water power and for that purpose
to dam the river, subject only to the exercise by the state
of its police power to regulate the use of navigable waters
in the public interest, and to protect public health and
safety; that to withhold from plaintiffs, as the state does
under the statute, the right to use their own property unless they agree to surrender it to the state at a price which
may prove at the time of transfer to be less than its true
value, is a taking of property without due process, prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment.
We do not pass upon the sufficiency of the compensation provided for by the statute. For the purpose of decision, it may be assumed that the recapture provisions
go too far, if the rights of plaintiffs are as described.
Hence the point first to be determined is whether plaintiffs' description is accurate. The trial court, the only
state court to express an opinion on this question, held
that the right of the riparian owner to make use of the
water power in a navigable river by maintaining a dam is
subordinate to the plenary power of the state to regulate
the use or obstruction of navigable waters; that the state
may forbid all obstruction by dam or otherwise; hence,
the right of the riparian owner to develop water power
by the construction of the dam remains inchoate until
the state has given its consent. "If the legislature may
wholly refuse permission to erect a dam or other structure
in the navigable waters of the state, it follows that it may

FOX RIVER CO. v. R. R. COMM.
651

655

Opinion of the Court.

grant such permission upon such terms as it shall determine will best protect the interests of the public. The
legislature could impose the condition that the dam
should be removed when it obstructed navigation or that
it should be removed at the end of a definite period of
time, for example, thirty years."
There being no question of evasion of the constitutional issue, Nickel v. Cole, 256 U. S. 222, 225; Union
Pac. R. R. v. Public Service .Commission, 248 U. S. 67;
Ward v. Love County, supra, 22; Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242 U. S. 272, this Court on writ of
error must accept as final the ruling of the state court of
last resort on all matters of state law. Sauer v. New
York, 206 U. S. 536; Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay, &c.
Canal, 142 U. S. 254, 272, 277. Although presumptively
title to the soil under navigable waters within the state is
in the state, Massachusetts v. New York, 271 U. S. 65,
89; United States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 54,
the nature and extent of the rights of the state and of
riparian owners in navigable waters within the state and
to the soil beneath are matters of state law to be determined by the statutes and judicial decisions of the state.
Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay, &c. Canal, supra, 272;
Packerv. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, 669; Hardinv. Jordan, 140
U. S. 371, 382; Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S.324, 338. If
the state chooses to resign to the riparian proprietor sovereign rights over navigable rivers which it acquired upon
assuming statehood, it is not for others to raise objections. Barney v. Keokuk,, supra, 338. We assume, although judicial expression is not entirely consistent, that
by the law of Wisconsin, in the absence of special circumstances, title to the bed of navigable rivers is in the riparian owner. Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay, &c. Canal,
supra,272; Willow River Club v. Wade, 100 Wis. 86, 95;
Wisconsin River Improvement Co. v. Lyons, 30 Wis. 61;
cf. Merwin v. Houghton, 146 Wis. 398, 409. But defend-

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ant contends that in any case the rights of plaintiffs are
subordinate to the state control of navigable waters, and
as was held in effect by the state court in this case, the
riparian owner can have no right in the water power
created by damming a navigable river, so long as the
state withholds its consent to the construction or maintenance of the dam. Wisconsin River Improvement Co.
v. Lyons, supra, 67.
In so holding it does not appear that the court below
ran counter to any established rule of property of the
state. An examination of the earlier state decisions discloses no such conflict of authority or inconsistency of
judicial opinion on this subject as even to suggest that
the court below adopted its view in order to evade the
constitutional issue. Nickel v. Cole, supra. The state's
consent is necessary for the construction of a bridge or
dam in a navigable river, subject to the superior power of"
the United States over navigation, Barnes v. City of
Racine, 4 Wis. 454; Wisconsin River Improvement Co.
v. Lyons, supra; and plaintiffs concede that the maintenance of a dam without such permission constitutes a
public nuisance. 1 Wis. Stat., 1925, § 31.25; cf. In re
Eldred, 46 Wis. 530. Riparian use is subject also to the
public right of navigation, Cohn v. Wausau Boom Co.,
47 Wis. 314, 325; fishing, Willow River Club v. Wade,
supra; and possibly to the right to establish a public
water supply by damming the river. Cf. Wisconsin v.
City of Eau Claire, 40 Wis. 533. That the holding below
presents no novel view appears from the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin in the Water Power Cases,
148 Wis. 124, where the court specifically pointed out
(p. 149) that neither the riparian owner nor the state
could develop water power by placing a dam in a navigable river resting upon its banks without the consent of
the other, and that the state might withhold its permission or grant it on conditions. Cf. Black River Improve-

