LOWE v. DICKSON.
21

Counsel for Parties.

state as well as interstate business. Even a foreign corporation is not immune from the ordinary processes of the
courts of a State where its business is entirely interstate
in character. International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 579. It must submit, if there is jurisdiction, to
the requirements of orderly, effective administration of
justice, although thereby interstate commerce is incidentally burdened. Compare Kane v. New Jersey, 242
U. S. 160, 167; St. Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Ry. v.
Taylor, 266 U. S. 200.
Affirmed.
LOWE v. DICKSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAIHIOMA.

No. 158. Argued February 24, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
A second or additional homestead entry, not authorized by law
when made, but asserted and claimed in good faith until after
the approval of the Act of May 22, 1902, allowing second entries,
was validated by that Act, and segregated the land, other rights
not having intervened, and became subject to a subsequent contest
for abandonment and failure to improve and cultivate. Prosser v.
Finn, 208 U. S. 67, distinguished. P. 26.
108 0kla. 241, reversed.
CERTIORARI

(269 U. S. 547) to a decree of the Supreme

Court of Oklahoma which affirmed a decree adjudging
that a tract of land patented under the homestead law
to Lowe (husband of the petitioner here) after a successful
contest of an entry made by Dickson, was held in trust for
the latter.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Messrs. S. A. Horton,
0. C. Wybrant, Charles Swendall, and Claude Nowlin
were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Patrick H. Loughran for respondent.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

MR. JUSTIc E SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent obtained a decree in an Oklahoma state
court adjudging that a certain tract of land, for which
a United States patent had been issued to Seward K.
Lowe, was held by Lowe in trust for respondent. This
decree was affirmed by the state supreme court. 108 Okla.
241. The suit was brought against Seward K. Lowe and
Susan Lowe, his wife. On October 4, 1926, the death
of Seward K. Lowe was suggested, and Susan Lowe substituted as the sole party petitioner.
The pertinent facts are as follows: On May 22, 1894,
respondent made homestead entry of 160 acres of land,
and, after final proof and payment, received a patent
from the government. On March 3, 1902, he made a
second homestead entry of other land at the proper local
land office. His affidavit accompanying the application
contained the statement that he had not theretofore made
an entry under the homestead laws except that he had
filed upon certain described land and "paid out on it
about three years ago." In making the second entry, respondent acted in good faith, believing at that time that
his right to make it had been conferred by law. On
March 6, 1902, the local land officer informed respondent
that his second entry was erroneously allowed because,
by his former entry, he had exhausted his homestead
right; that the entry would undoubtedly be held for cancellation by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
on that account; and that respondent could, if he wished,
relinquish that entry and apply for the return of his fees
and commissions. Respondent took no action, and the
entry, in fact, was not cancelled but was intact on and after
May 22, 1902. On that date, an act of Congress, § 2, c.
821, 32 Stat. 203, was passed, the effect of which was to
qualify respondent to make a second homestead entry.

LOWE v. DICKSON.
23

Opinion of the Court.

After the passage of that act, respondent continued to
claim the land as a homestead.
On March 13, 1903, Seward K. Lowe filed a contest
against the second entry on a charge of abandonment,
but subsequently withdrew it and instituted a new contest, January 28, 1905, charging abandonment for a period
of six months and failure to improve and cultivate. June
20, 1906, the local land office found for Lowe and recommended cancellation of respondent's entry. On July 2,
following, respondent made another application to enter
the land as a homestead, reciting the two former entries
and asserting that the second one had been erroneously
allowed. This third application was rejected by the local
land office on the ground that it conflicted with the subsisting second entry. Appeals to the Department of the
Interior followed, respondent contending that his second
entry was a nullity and, consequently, not contestable,
and that his third application should have been allowed
under the decision in Jeremiah H. Murphy, 4 L. D. 467,
holding that a subsisting void entry is no bar to a subsequent legal application by the same person. The department held that (1) the original invalidity of the
second entry was immaterial, because respondent's continued assertion of right thereunder after the passage of
the act of May 22, 1902, cured the entry arid made it
valid, citing prior decisions; (2) the entry having thus
been validated, the rule in the Murphy case was not
applicable; and (3) the second entry having become valid,
respondent was bound to pursue it in compliance with law
and could not defeat a contest by electing, after the contest was waged, to treat the entry as invalid. On the
merits, the charge of failure to reside upon and cultivate
the land was found proved, and the entry was cancelled
on that ground. Lowe made homestead entry of the
land, and in time received final certificate and patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The state supreme court declined to follow this holding
of the department, saying that while it was supported by
a number of prior departmental decisions, which were
entitled to great weight and should not be overruled
unless clearly erroneous, a controlling conclusion to the
contrary had been reached by this court in Prosser v.
Finn, 208 U. S. 67.
The Prossercase involved the construction and application of § 452 Rev. Stats. - "The officers, clerks, and employs in the General Land Office are prohibited from
direoetly or indirectly purchasing or becoming interested
in the purchase of any of the public land; and any person who violates this section shall forthwith be removed
from his office." Prosser, a special agent of the General
Land Office and held to be within the terms of the statute,
made a timber culture entry of certain land and complied
with the law in respect of cultivation and in other particulars. His entry was contested upon the ground, among
others, that it was made in violation of § 452. The contest was sustained by the local land office, and its ruling
affirmed by the department. Patent for the land was
issued to Finn, and Prosser brought suit for a decree
adjudging that the title was held for him in trust by Finn.
The ruling of the department was attacked on the ground
that long prior to the initiation of the contest, Prosser
had ceased to have any connection whatever with the
land department, and his entry, therefore, was validated
by removal of the disability. This court held that the
statute applied; that Prosser's entry was invalid; that his
continuance in possession after ceasing to be special agent
was not equivalent to a new entry; and that his rights
were to be determined by the validity of the original entry
at the time it was made.
Section 452 affects a class of persons having superior
opportunities and power to perpetrate frauds and secure
undue advantage over the general public in the acquisi-

LOWE v. DICKSON.
23

Opinion of the Court.

tion of public lands. "The purpose of the prohibition
is to guard against the temptations and partiality likely
to attend efforts to acquire public lands, or interests
therein, by persons so situated, and thereby to prevent
abuse and inspire confidence in the administration of the
public-land laws." Waskey v. Hammer, 223 U. S. 85, 93.
The provision is to be so applied and enforced as to effectuate the purpose. And it is evident, that to deny
an officer, clerk or employ6 of the land office the right
to make an entry while occupying that relationship, but
to validate such an entry upon his retirement from the
service, would thwart the statutory policy, since the result
would be to allow the entryman still to reap the fruit of
his undue advantage, superior knowledge and opportunities, and, perhaps, of his fraud, which it is the aim of the
statute to forestall.
But the restrictions of the homestead law which pfeeluded the acquisition of a second homestead rest upon
other and different considerations. The purpose of such
restrictions was to limit the bounty of the United States;
but when that bounty has been extended to include an
additional homestead right, the policy of the law is not
infringed by allowing an entry, honestly made, though
unauthorized under the old law, to stand as though made
under the new law; provided, of course, other rights have
not intervened. In that case, to compel a cancellation of
the unauthorized entry and the formal making of a new
entry of the same land is merely to require unnecessary
circuity of action to accomplish a permissible result. The
land department for many years has uniformly held that
the old entry may stand, John J. Stewart, 9 L. D. 543;
George W. Blackwell, 11 L. D. 384; Smith et al. v.
Taylor, 23 L. D. 440, and its decision should not be disturbed except for cogent reasons, McLaren v. Fleischer,
256 U. S. 477, 481; United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265,
269, which here do not exist. On the contrary, as we

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

2741. S.

have indicated, the reasons convincingly are the other
way. The Prosser case would have fallen within a like
principle if, while Prosser was in possession of the land
and resting upon his entry, the law itself had been so
altered as to remove the disqualification imposed by § 452.
Such a change in the law would have manifested a change
of policy, with which, as in the present case, validation
of the unauthorized entry, no adverse claims intervening,
would not have conflicted.
It is well settled that, while § 2320 Rev. Stats. provides
explicitly that "no location of a mining-claim shall be
made until the discovery of the vein or lode within the
limits of the claim located," a discovery after location will
validate the location if no adverse rights have intervened.
To require a new location under these circumstances
"would be a useless and idle ceremony, which the law
does not require." Mining Company v. Tunnel Company,
196 U. S. 337, 345, 348-352; Union Oil Co. v. Smith, 249
U. S. 337, 347; Cole v. Ralph, 252 U. S. 286, 296. So,
where an alien has made a public land entry, his subsequent naturalization or declaration of intention to become
a citizen will, in the absence of adverse claims, relate back
and confirm the entry. Bogan v. Edinburgh American
Land Mortg. Co., 63 Fed. 192, 198. In Manuel v. Wulff,
152 U. S. 505, 511, the same rule was applied in the case
of a purchase of a mining claim by an alien who became
a citizen pending adverse proceedings. And the rule is
the same where a homestead entry has been made by a
minor who comes of age prior to the inception of an adverse claim. Huff v. Geis, 71 Colo. 7; Dillard v. Hurd,46
L. D. 51. We are unable to perceive any substantial
ground for denying the applicability of the logic of these
decisions to the present case.
It follows, as the land department held, that Lowe's
contest was filed against a validated and subsisting entry
which had had the effect of segregating the land from the

