FT. SMITH LIGHT CO. v. PAVING DIST.
380

387

Syllabus.

by violence or other related unlawful acts or methods.
Compare Whitney v. California and Burns v. United
States, ante, pp. 357, 328.
The result is that the Syndicalism Act has been applied
in this case to sustain the conviction of the defendant,
without any charge or evidence that the organization in
which he secured members advocated any crime, violence
or other unlawful acts or methods as a means of effecting
industrial or political changes or revolution. Thus applied the Act is an arbitrary and unreasonable exercise
of the police power of the State, unwarrantably infringing the liberty of the defendant in violation of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
judgment is accordingly reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
FORT SMITH LIGHT AND TRACTION COMPANY
v. BOARD OF IMPROVEMENT OF PAVING DISTRICT NO. 16 OF THE CITY OF FORT SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 269.

Submitted March 17, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. Under the power reserved by the Arkansas Constitution to alter
any corporate charter, the legislature may require a street railway
which has surrendered its franchise for an indeterminate permit, to
pave the streets between its rails. P. 389.
2. Such exercise of a reserved power to amend corporate charters by
a requirement which might have been in the original charter and
has some reasonable relation to the object of the grant and the
duty of the State to maintain the highway is consistent with the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 390.
3. The imposition of burdens, otherwise legitimate, upon a public
service company cannot be held invalid as confiscatory because it
is operating at rates which do not allow an adequate return. P. 390.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

4. A state law requiring the street railway in a particular municipality to do paving not required of other street railways elsewhere in
the State not shown to be similar to it with respect to the location,
use and physical character of the streets occupied by them, is not
a denial of the equal protection of the laws. P. 391.
5. The Fourteenth Amendment does not require the uniform application of legislation to objects that are different, where those differences may be made the rational basis of legislative discrimination.
P. 391.
169 Ark. 690, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a judgment recovered by the Improvement
Paving District in its action against the Traction Company. The judgment was for the amount expended by
the plaintiff for street paving which defendant had declined to perform though required by statute.
Messrs. Joseph M. Hill, Henry L. Fitzhugh, and R. _Al.
Campbell for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. John P. Woods and Harry P. Daily for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Defendant in error, a board of improvement incorporated by the State of Arkansas, brought suit in the Circuit Court of Sebastian County, to recover the cost of
paving a part of certain streets in Fort Smith, Arkansas,
occupied by the street railway of plaintiff in error. Plaintiff in error originally operated its railway under a franchise requiring it to do similar paving and limiting it to
a maximum fare of five cents per passenger. Availing
of the permission granted by No. 571 of the Acts of
Arkansas, 1919, amended by No. 124 of 1921, the company had surrendered in that year its franchise for an
indeterminate permit to operate its road. The permit
did not fix a maximum fare or require the railway to pave

FT. SMITH LIGHT CO. v. PAVING DIST.
387

389

Opinion of the Court.

parts of the streets occupied by its tracks, but subjected
it to the regulatory powers of a utilities commission.
In 1923 the legislature passed a statute, Acts of Arkansas, 1923, No. 680, requiring plaintiff in error under
certain conditions which have occurred, to pave the
streets between its rails to the end of the ties. In the
event of its failure to do so, the improvement district was
authorized to do the paving at the expense of the railway. The act is in form a general statute, but by reason
of provisions making it applicable to street railways operating under indeterminate permits in cities of the first
class other than in Miller County, it in fact applied to
plaintiff in error alone.
Plaintiff in error having failed to do the required paving, the board completed the improvement and brought
the present suit. The company by answer set up that
the statutory requirements of paving impaired the obligation of its contract with the state,*in violation of Art.
I, ยง 10 of the Federal Constitution, and deprived it of
property without due process of law and denied the equal
protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. The judgment of the circuit court for defendant in error was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the state. 169 Ark. 690. The case is here on writ of
error. Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended.
It is urged that the acceptance of the indeterminate
permit under the Act of 1919 constituted a contract between the railway and the state by which the state bound
itself not to impose any added burdens except in the
exercise of its police power; that the requirement for
stre6t paving was not an exercise of the police power and
was therefore a forbidden impairment of the contract.
This contention assumes that the permit exempted the
railway from paving costs. But no such exemption appears in the permit. Provisions of this character are not
lightly to be read into a contract between a state and a

800

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

public utility. Public Service Co. v. Durham, 261 U. S.
149, 152. Even granting the assumption, the case of
FairHaven R. R. v. New Haven, 203 U. S. 379, is a complete answer. There this Court held that a general law
imposing on a street railway the duty to repair so much
of the streets as was occupied by its tracks was an exercise of the power reserved to the state to alter, amend
or repeal the original charter and was not an impairment
of the obligation -of contract. That case controls here
since ยง 6, Art. XII of the Constitution of Arkansas, in
force at the time when plaintiff relinquished its franchise and accepted the permit, reserved to the legislature
the power to alter any corporate charter. See also Sioux
City Street Ry. v. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98.
Assuming the exercise of the power of amendment is
subject to the limitation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319,
324; Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin Co., 192 U. S. 201,
213, that limitation, as was held in Fair Haven R. R. v.
New Haven, supra, is not transcended by a requirement
which might have been included in the original charter
and which has some reasonable relation to the object of
the grant and to the duty of. the state to maintain its
highways. Cf. Southern Wisconsin Ry. v. Madison, 240
U. S. 457; Great Northern Ry. v. Clara City, 246 U. S.
434.
It is said that the act in its application is confiscatory
because plaintiff in error must bear this expense although
it is losing money in the operation of its road at the rates
for service now prevailing. But the imposition of burdens, otherwise legitimate, upon a public service company cannot be held invalid as confiscatory because the
permitted rate does not allow an adequate return. Woodhaven Gas Light Co. v. Public Service Commission, 269
U. S. 244; Milwaukee Elec. Ry. v. Milwaukee, 252 U. S.

FT. SMITH LIGHT CO. v. PAVING DIST.
387

391

Opinion of the Court.

100, 105. Whether the rate is confiscatory is not
before us.
It is also contended that as there are other street railways in the state, some operating under franchises and
one under an indeterminate permit, which are not required to do street paving, the challenged act denies the
equal protection of the laws. The Fourteenth Amendment does not prohibit legislation merely because it is
special, or limited in its application to a particular geographical or political subdivision of the state. See- Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31; MissouriRy. v. Mackey,
127 U. S. 205, 209; Mason v. Missouri, 179 U. S. 328;
Mallett v. North Carolina,181 U. S. 589; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68; cf. Walston v. Nevin, 128 U. S. 578;
Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304; Condon v. Maloney,
108 Tenn. 82; Owen v. Sioux City, 91 Ia. 190; Strange
v. Board, 173 Ind. 640; Tenement House Dept. v. Moeschen, 179 N. Y. 325; People ex rel. Armstrong v. Warden, 183 N. Y. 223; State ex rel. Wixon v. Cleveland, 164
Wis. 189; Davis v. State, 6S Ala. 58; but cf. State ex rel.
Johnson v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R., 195 Mo.
228. If a state may delegate to a municipality power to
require paving by a street.railway located within its limits, Public Service Co. v. Durham, supra, we perceive no
reason why it may not, by a legislative act, make a like
requirement limited to a single municipality.
Nor need we cite authority for the proposition that the
Fourteenth Amendment does not require the uniform application of legislation to objects that are different, where
those differences may be made the rational basis of legislative discrimination. There is nothing in the record
now before us to show that there is any similarity of
plaintiff's road to others in the state with respect to many
considerations which might reasonably determine which
roads should be required to do street paving. Differences

