640

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U.S.

dure which does not seem to have been followed here.
There are provisions for foreclosure and sale of fhe land
with appurtenant water rights, §§ 3045, 3046. Section
3040 describes the maintenance lien as a "first and prior
lien," but it is expressly provided, § 3049, that this article
shall not affect "any other lien or right of lien given by the
laws of this state, or otherwise," thus in terms giving the
lien authorized by § 3019 priority. Section 5631 is not
applicable since it does not pertain to water rights or
stock.
We therefore conclude that the contract liens are superior to the maintenance liens asserted by petitioner, a
conclusion which makes it unnecessary for us to consider
the validity of the maintenance liens challenged by
respondents.
Decree affirmed.

INDEPENDENT COAL & COKE COMPANY
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 300. Argued April 26, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.

1. A bill in the nature of a supplemental bill is appropriate for
securing the benefits of a former decree when further relief to that
end is made necessary by subsequent events. P. 647.

2. In determining the scope of such a bill and the relief that may be
given upon it, the pleadings and proceedings of the earlier suit may
be considered, when their nature is disclosed by the former decree
and opinion, set up in the supplementary bill. P. 647.

3. One who, by fraudulent misrepresentation, induced a State to
select, and the Government to convey to it, public lands of a kind
not subject to such selection, and obtained the equitable title from
the State; who was perpetually enjoined, in a suit by the United
States, to which the State was not a party, from setting up or
making any claim to the lands, by decree establishing the fraud

INDEPENDENT COAL CO. v. U. S.
Counsel for Parties.

640

and declaring the United States the owner; and who subsequently,
by a conveyance from the State, acquired the legal title, holds that
title as a constructive trustee for the United States, even assuming
that it was unassailable in the hands of the State because of the
statute of limitations. P. 647.
4. Unless bona fide, a purchaser under a title which has been acquired
by fraud takes subject to the equities of the defrauded owner.
P. 649.
5. Bona fide purchase is an affirmative defense. P. 650.
6. Statutes of limitation against the United States are strictly construed. P. 650.
7. Whether a certification of public land is within the statute limiting
suits by the United States to vacate or annul patents-not decided.
P. 650.
8. Where land has been certified to and sold by a State, a suit by
the United States to regain the title from the purchaser because
of fraud in procuring the certification is not a suit to cancel it.
P. 650.
9 F. (2d) 517, affirmed.

CmR mowm (270 U. S. 639) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the District
Court dismissing a bill brought by the United States to
impress a constructive trust on the legal title to coal lands
which had been certified to the State of Utah as agricultural, and sold. It was in aid of a former suit (228
Fed. 431) in which the United States was decreed to be
the owner of the equitable title, upon the ground that the
certification had been procured by fraud.
Mr. Mahlon E. Wilson, with whom Messrs. William D.
Riter and Albert R. Barnes were on the brief, for petitioner Independent Coal & Coke Co.
Mr. FrankK. Nebeker, with whom Mr. Samuel A. King
was on the brief, for petitioner Carbon County Land Co.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
Randolph S. Collins, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the United States.
55514 -28----41

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Messrs. Harvey H. Cluff, Attorney General of Utah,
and W. Halverson Farr,Assistant Attorney General, filed
a brief as amici curiae on behalf of the State of Utah, by
special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE STONX delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a second suit by the United States, and is in aid
of the first, for the restoration to the government of some
fifty-five hundred acres of public lands located in Utah,
title to which was procured by a fraud perpetrated upon
the land officers of the United States. The first suit,
which resulted in a judgment for the government (affirmed 228 Fed. 431), was predicated upon the following
circumstances.
. The United States, in 1894, made a grant of public
lands to the State of Utah to aid in the establishment of
an agricultural college, certain schools and asylums and
for other purposes. (§§ 8 and 10, Act of July 16, 1894,
c. 138, 28 Stat. 107, 109, 110.) Mineral lands were not
included. See Milner v. UnitedStates, 228 Fed. 431, 439;
United States v. Sweet, 245 U. S. 563; Mullan v. United
States, 118 U. S. 271, 276; § 2318 R. S. The grant was
not of lands in place. Selections were to be made by the
state with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
from unappropriated public lands, in such manner as the
legislature should provide. The legislature (Laws, Utah,
1896, c. 80) later created a board of land commissioners
with general supervisory powers over the disposition of
the lands and with authority to select particular lands
under the grants.
During the period from December 10, 1900, to September 14, 1903, Milner and others, the predecessors in interest of the Carbon County Land Company, one of the
petitioners, made several applications to the State Commission to select and obtain in the name of the state the
lands now in question, and at the same time entered

INDEPENDENT COAL CO. v. U. S.
640

643

Opinion of the- Court.

into agreements with the Commission to purchase the
lands from the state. In aid of the applications and
agreements, Milner and his associates filed affidavits with
the Commission stating that they were acquainted with
the character of these lands which they affirmed were nonmineral and did not contain deposits of coal. They also
deposed that the applications were not made for the purpose of fraudulently obtaining mineral holdings, but to
acquire the land for agricultural use. The applicants
were obviously aware that the affidavits or the information contained in them would in due course be submitted
to the Land Office of the United States with the State
Commission's selections, as they were in fact. On the
faith of these and other documents, the selections were
approved by the Secretary of the Interior and the tracts
in question were certified to the state on various
dates, the last being in December, 1904. Certification
was the mode of passing title from the United States to
the state.
In January, 1907, the United States brought the first
suit, against Milner and his associates and the Carbon
County Land Company, which had been organized by
Milner to take over the land, and was controlled by him.
The suit was founded on the charge that the certifications
were procured by the fraudulent misrepresentations of
Milner and the others since they knew at the time of the
applications that the lands contained coal deposits. Although the bill in the present case states that the relief
asked was the cancellation of the contracts between the
state and Milner and his associates, this allegation is apparently inadvertent, for the record elsewhere indicates
that the bill in fact sought the quieting of the government's title. It affirmatively appears that on June 8,
1914, the district court entered a decree declaring that
the United States "is the owner" and "entitled to the
possession" of the lands in question and that the de-.

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

fendants "have no right, title or interest, or right of possession," and perpetually enjoining them "from setting
up or making any claim to or upon said premises." The
Court of Appeals, in affirming the decree, held that "the
whole transaction was a scheme or conspiracy on the
part of Milner to fraudulently obtain the ownership of
the lands from the United States."
In bringing suit in this form without making the State
of Utah a party, it is evident that the government relied
on the principles announced in Williams v. United States,
138 U. S. 514. In that case it was held, on a similar state
of facts, that the State of Nevada was not a necessary
party to the suit and that the contract between it and its
purchaser operated to vest the equitable interest in the
lands in him, the legal interest being retained as security
for the purchase price. This Court said:
"The State of Nevada might have intervened. It did
not; doubtless, because it felt it had no real interest. It
was no intentional party to any wrong upon the general
government. If its agency had been used by the wrongdoer to obtain title from the general government; if, conscious of no wrong on its part, it had obtained from the
general government the legal title and conveyed it away
to the alleged wrong-doer, it might justly say that it had
no interest in the controversy, and that it would leave to
the determination of the courts the question of right
between the government and the alleged wrong-doer, and
conform its subsequent action to that determination.
That certainly is the dignified and proper course to be
pursued by a State, which is charged to have been the
innocent instrumentality and agent by which a title to
real estate has been wrongfully obtained from the general
government." (Pp. 516-517.)
The present suit is founded on the allegation that the
State of Utah, not conforming its action to the decision
in the first suit, despite the decree and the findings of

INDEPENDENT COAL CO. v. U. S.
640

645

Opinion of the Court.

fraud upon which it was based, has conveyed the legal
title to the fraudulent purchasers. The bill was filed in
May, 1924, against the Carbon County Land Company
and the Independent Coal & Coke Company, petitioners
here, and others whose interests are not now material. It
sets up the equitable title or interest of the United States
in the land, based upon the decree in the first suit, a copy
of which, with the opinion of the circuit court of appeals
in that case, it incorporated; the conveyance by patent
of the state's legal interest to petitioner, the Carbon
County Land Company; and explains that the Independent Coal & Coke Company was made a party as it claims
an interest in a part of the lands, the full nature and extent of which is unknown to plaintiff. The relief asked
is that a trust be impressed in favor of plaintiff; that defendants be ordered to convey whatever title they have,
subject only to any mortgages the state may have retained in conveying the legal title; and that they be enjoined from mining coal.
The defendants separately moved to dismiss the bill on
the ground that it failed to state a cause of action against
any of them and that the action was barred by the Statute of Limitations, § 8, Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26
Stat. 1095, 1099, limiting suits by the United States to
vacate and annul patents to six years from the date of
issue. The judgment of the district court dismissing the
bill as barred by the statute was reversed by the court of
appeals for the eighth circuit. 9 Fed. (2d) 517. This
Court granted certiorari. 270 U. S. 639.
Petitioners maintain that the bill fails to allege any
facts showing that the Carbon County Land Company is
a trustee of the lands or bound in equity to surrender
them to the government. Conceding the full force and
effect of the decree in the first suit, they assert that the
State of Utah was not a party to it or bound by its decree; that the title of the state, if ever open to attack by

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the United States, ripened into an indefeasible title by
lapse of time under the six year statute of limitations and
that petitioners may clothe themselves with the protection of that title despite the decree in the earlier suit.
We may assume for the purposes of the present case,
without deciding, that the state officials were not cognizant of the fraud perpetrated upon the United States
and that the legal title of the state was not affected by
the decree in the first suit, although the United States in
an appropriate proceeding might have procured the annulment of the certification, at least within the period
of limitations. Cf. United States v. Sweet, supra; MulIan v. United States, supra. But it does not follow that
the defendants in the first suit could receive from the
state the fruits of their fraud free of an equitable obligation to make restitution to the government or that the
United States could not avail itself of all that was adjudged
in its favor by the decree in the first suit, even if its
original cause of action against the state were barred. By
the contracts of purchase Milner and his associates acquired an equitable interest in the land, Williams v.
United States, supra. Their interest was transferred to
the Carbon County Land Company, created and controlled by them for that purpose, as a part of the fraudulent conspiracy condemned in the first suit. The decree
in that suit is conclusive that the company was a party to
the fraudulent scheme or conspiracy to acquire title to
the public lands by using the state and its officials as
agencies to procure the transfer. The decree not only
established that the United States was the true and full
owner of the land to the exclusion of the defendants, but
perpetually enjoined them from setting up or making any
claim to the lands. This and the issues of fact there resolved in favor of the United States and pleaded here,
lead to the conclusion that none of the defendants, nor
any claiming under them with notice, could by any legal

INDEPENDENT COAL CO. v. U. S.
640

Opinion of the Court.

device, however ingenious, acquire title from the state
free from the taint of their fraud.
The suit is in the nature of a supplemental bill in aid
of the former decree and is an appropriate method of
securing the benefit of the first decree when subsequent
events have made necessary some further relief in order
that the plaintiff may enjoy the full fruits of the victory
in the first suit. Cf. Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S. 401;
Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253, 262; Thompson v. Maxwell, 95 U. S. 391; Story, Equity Pleading, 10th ed., §§
338, 339, 345, 351(b), 353, 429, 432. Cooper, Equity
Pleading, 74, 75. In determining the scope of the present
bill and the relief which may be given upon it, we may
consider the pleadings and proceedings in the earlier suit,
the nature of which are fully disclosed in the opinion and
decree in that suit, which are pleaded here.
It is ancient and familiar learning that one who fraudulently procures a conveyance may not defeat the defrauded grantor or protect himself from the consequences
of his fraud by having the title conveyed to an innocent
third person. Cf. Merry v. Abney, Freem. C. C. 151;
Moore v. Crawford, 130 U. S. 122, 128; Girard Co. v.
Lamoureux, 227 Mass. 277; McDaniel v. Sprick, 297 Mo.
424. Equity may follow the property until it reaches the
hands of an innocent purchaser for value. Even then the
wrongdoer may not reacquire it free of the obligation
which equity imposes on one who despoils another of
his property by fraud or a breach of trust. The obligation in personam to make restitution persists and may
be enforced by compelling a return of the property itself
whenever and however it comes into his hands. Bovey
v. Smith, 1 Vern. 60; Kennedy v. Daly, 1 Sch. & L. 355,
379; Williams v. Williams, 118 Mich. 477; Talbert v.
Singleton, 42 Cal. 390; Schutt v. Large, 6 Barb. 373, 380;
Church v. Ruland, 64 Pa. St. 432, 444; Troy City Bank
v. Wilcox, 24 Wis. 671; Lewin, Trusts, 12th ed., 1102.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

So also, a purchaser with notice of an outstanding equity,
despite a transfer to an innocent purchaser for value, may
not on a later repurchase hold free of the equity. Clark
v. McNeal, 114 N. Y. 287; McDaniel v. Sprick, supra,439;
Phillis v. Gross, 32 S. D. 438, 449; Yost v. Critcher, 112
Va. 870, 876; 2 Pomeroy, Equity, § 754. So here the
obligation, having its inception in the fraud which was
established in the first suit, has been confirmed by the
decree and persists as to every interest acquired by petitioners under the contracts with the state or which may
be enjoyed by them as the fruit of their fraud, even
though we assume for the moment that the title acquired
by them could not have been challenged while in the
hands of the state.
It having been adjudicated that the government is the
true owner of whatever rights the Land Company acquired under the earlier contracts with the state, the decree must be deemed either to have transferred those rights
to the government or to have determined that the government is.equitably entitled to have them so transferred.
If the former, the government may assert the rights under
the contract against the Land Company, as holder of the
legal title, as it might against any other purchaser of the
land from the state with notice. Bird v. Hall, 30 Mich.
374. If the latter, the Land Company could not acquire
the lands even through a new and independent contract
without a surrender of such rights as it had under the
earlier contracts; and it could not make the surrender
effective against the United States, the real owner, without its assent, unless the state stood in the position of a
purchaser for value without notice. To these rights the
government is equitably entitled, and hence may at its
election claim the benefit of their proceeds in the hands of
the Land Company. Cf. United States v. Dunn, 268
U. S. 121; Taylor v. Kelly, 56 N. C. 240; Haughwout &
Pomeroy v. Murphy, 22 N. J. Eq., 531, 547.

INDEPENDENT COAL CO. v. U. S.
640

Opinion of the Court.

Even if the title acquired were through a new and independent contract and even though it were not in a
strict sense proceeds of the earlier contracts, the relation
of the Land Company and its equitable obligation to the
government, and its duty under the decree in the first
suit, are such as to preclude the acquisition of any outstanding interest in the land in violation of the decree,
free of that obligation and duty. Cf. Keech v. Sandford,
Sel. Cas. *61; Lurie v. Pinanski,215 Mass. 229; Anderson
v. Lemon, 8 N. Y. 236; Holridge v. Gillespie, 2 Johnson's
Ch. 30; Griffith v. Owen, L. R. [1907] 1 Ch. 195; Phillips v. Phillips, L. R. 29 Ch. Div. 673; but cf. Bevan v.
Webb, L. R. [1905] 1 Ch. 620; and see also, Fairv. Brown,
40 Ia. 209; Kezer v. Clifford, 59 N. H. 208; Hall v. Westcott, 15 R. I. 373; Middletown Savings Bank v. Bacharach, 46 Conn. 513.
We need not inquire now whether there may be defenses to the cause of action stated in the bill. It is
enough for present purposes that, despite unskilled draftsmanship, it sets out facts sufficient, on a motion to dismiss, to support the relief prayed.
But it is argued that there are no allegations showing
that petitioner, Independent Coal & Coke Company, is
a party to the fraud or what interest it claims in the.
lands, or that it acquired any interest from or under any
other party to the transaction. But we think it fairly
inferable from the bill, taken as a whole, that the interest
alleged to be claimed by the Coal Company was one
arising subsequent to the conveyance by the state to the
Land Company. The bill sets up title in the United
States and its transfer to the state and alleges that the
State of Utah, in making its transfer to the Coal Company, relied on the fact that it had not parted with the
legal title to the lands at the time of the decree. This in
effect is an averment that the interest claimed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Coal Company was acquired subsequent to the certification by the United States to the state. Whatever interest
it acquired after that event, it took subject to the equities
of the United States, and if from the Land Company, subject also to all of the equities against that company,
unless the purchase was bona fide. Bona fide purchase
is an affirmative defense. Wright-Blodgett Co. v. United
States, 236 U. S. 397, 403.
The Statute of Limitations relied on provides that suits
by the United States "to vacate and annul any patent
. . . shall only be brought within six years after the
date of the issuance of such patents." A point much
argued here was whether a certification of public lands
is a patent within the meaning of the statute. But that
is a question which we need not decide. Statutes of
limitation against the United States are to be narrowly
construed. •United States v. Whited & Wheless, 246 U. S.
552, 561. And we think it plain that the present suit,
founded on equitable grounds, to compel a conveyance
of title derived from a certification by the government
is not a suit to cancel the certification. See United States
v. New Orleans Pacific Ry., 248 U. S. 507, 510, 518.
We hold that the acquisition of the title of the lands
by the Land Company as set out in the bill was in violation of equitable principles and of the decree enjoining
the defendants in the first suit "from setting up or making any claim to the premises," and that a proper case
was stated for the imposition on both petitioners of a
constructive trust with respect to the lands acquired by
them. As the bill is not well drafted, respondent should
have leave to perfect it. This will promote an orderly
and intelligent disposition of the case.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNoLDS, Mi. JusTIcE SuTrEwAnD,

and M . JusTIcE BUTLER dissent.

