MERRITT & CHAPMAN CO. v. U. S.
- Opinion of the Court.
MERRITT & CHAPMAN DERRICK & WRECKING
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 214. Argued March 10, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
The aid or benefit to a ship resulting incidentally and indirectly from
efforts to extinguish fire on a nearby wharf, put forth for the
purpose of saving property not related to her, will not sustain a
claim for salvage in the absence of any request for or acceptance
of the service on her behalf. P. 613.
Affirmed.

Error to a decree of the District Court dismissing the
petition in a suit for salvage brought against the United
States under the Tucker Act.
Mr. Dudley C. Smith, with whom Mr. 0. D. Duncan
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Assistant Attorney General Farnum,with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered

the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff in error sued under the Tucker Act, c. 359, 24
Stat. 505, upon a claim for salvage on account of service
alleged to have been rendered the Steamship Leviathan
owned by the defendant in error. United States v. Cornell Steamboat Co., 202 U. S. 184, 189. On defendant's
motion the court, May 7, 1925, dismissed the petition on
the ground that it fails to state a cause of action. The
case is here on writ of error to that court. J. Homer
Fritch,Inc. v. United States, 248 U. S. 458.
The petition alleges the following. August 24-25,
1921, at Hoboken, there was a fierce and extensive fire on

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Pier 5. The Leviathan lay bow in at the south side of
Pier 4. She could not be towed out. She had only a
skeleton crew, and it would have required a large number
to man her and many hours of preparation to get up
sufficient steam and move her by means of her own engines. The fire started at half after six in the evening
and was not extinguished until seven in the morning.
A part of the time it covered the whole length of Pier 5,
the bulkhead and adjacent houses. The wind was from
the south and tended to carry the fire across the slip and
onto the Leviathan. Her port side was considerably
scorched, and several times fire broke out on her superstructure. Ammunition was stored in a building near
the bulkhead, and the possibility of an explosion added to
the danger. Plaintiff's steamers Commissioner and
Chapman Brothers were powerful boats, specially built,
equipped and manned for salvage and fire fighting service.
The former from seven until half after nine in the evening and the latter from about seven in the evening until
seven in the morning continuously fought the fire. 'They
played heavy streams of water on the burning pier where
the fire threatened the Leviathan. And, by way of conclusion, it is stated that "The service was a direct aid
and benefit to the steamer Leviathan in preventing the
spread of flames from Pier 5 to that. vessel, and had it not
been for the said service great damage to, if not total loss
of, the said steamship would have resulted." Limiting
the general statement by the specific, in accordance with
the context, (United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 169
Fed. 65, 67, and cases cited) the substance of the allegation is that plaintiff in error, by preventing the spread
of the fire from the pier to the Leviathan, rendered her
direct aid and benefit.
There is no claim that the Leviathan, or any one in her
behalf, requested or accepted assistance from plaintiff in

MERRITT & CHAPMAN CO. v. U. S.
611

Opinion of the Court.

error, or that its fireboats played any water on that vessel
or did anything to extinguish fire thereon or to give her
any assistance other than that involved in fighting the
fire on and about Pier 5. The distance between the
Leviathan and that fire is not stated, and there is nothing to indicate that she did not have adequate protection
from other sources. Indeed, the circumstances disclosed
by the petition rather tend to show that she did not need
any assistance from plaintiff in error.
While salvage cannot be exacted for assistance forced
upon a ship (The Bolivar v. The Chalmette, 1 Woods
C. C. 397), her request for or express acceptance of the
service is not always essential to the validity of the claim.
It is enough if under the circumstances any prudent man
would have accepted. The Annapolis, (In the Privy
Council), Lushington 355, 375. Plaintiff in error claims
as a volunteer salvor going at his own risk to the assistance of the ship on the chance of reward in case of success, and not as one employed rendering service for pay
according to his effort or the terms of his contract. The
Sabine, 101 U. S. 384, 390. It did not communicate with
or enter into the service of the Leviathan. Its fireboats
did not put water upon her. The fires that started on
her were put out by other means. All effort of plaintiff
in error was put forth directly for the purpose of extinguishing fire at and about Pier 5 and to save property
not at all related to the Leviathan. The elimination of
that fire contributed mediately to her safety. But, whatever the aid or benefit resulting to her, it was incidental
and indirect for which, in the absence of request for or
acceptance of the service, a claim for salvage cannot be
sustained. The Annapolis, supra; The City of Atlanta,
56 Fed. 252, 254; The San Cristobal, 215 Fed. 615; 230
Fed. 599.
Judgment affirmed.

