344

QQIOBER TERM, 1926.

of action considered in United States v. Worth American
Co., 253 U. S. 330, and a taking under the power of eminent domain was pointed out in Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
United States, 261 U. at 299. Plaintiffs' property was
taken before its value was ascertained or paid. Judgment in 1926 for the value of the use of the property in
1918 and 1919, without more, is not sufficient to constitute just compensation. Section 177 does not prohibit
the inclusion of the additional amount for which petitioner contends. It is not a claim for interest within the
purpose or intention of that section. Acts of Congress
are to be construed and applied in harmony with and
not to thwart the purpose of the Constitution. The Government's obligation is to put the owners in as good position pecuniarily as if the use of their property had not
been taken. They are entitled to have the full equivalent of the value of such use at the time of the taking
paid contemporaneously with the taking. As such payment has not been made, petitioner is entitled to the
additional amount claimed. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
United States, supra,304; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United
States, 265 U. S. 106, 123; Liggett and Myers Tobacco
Co. v nited States, ante, p. 215.
Judgment reversed.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY

COMPANY

ET

AL.

v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COM-

MISSION OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATh OF IDAH3O.

No. 242. Argued March 17, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.
1. A State cannot require a railroad to accept confiscatory rates on
saw logs hauled intrastate to the mill upon the ground that the
revenue from the log haul combined with that received from the
interstate haul of the manufactured products of the logs, is adequate.
P. 350,

CHI., ETc.RY. v. PUB. UTIL. COM.
344

345

Opinion of the Court.

2. Where rates found by a regulatory body to be compensatory are
attacked as being confiscatory, the courts may inquire into the
method by which its conclusion was reached. P. 351.
S. Findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission that rates on
pertain commodities in a district embracing several States are
unreasonable, and not expressly relating to intrastate rates, are to
be construed as applying to interstate rates exclusively. P. 351.
4. Orders of the Director General of Railroads advancing interstate
and intrastate rates and of the Interstate Commerce Commission
authorizing a further advance, held not to affect the rights of carriers or the duties of a state public utilities commission in respect of
subsequent rate reductions. P. 352.
5. The fact that the Interstate Commerce Commission found an
interstate rate too high and authorized reduction is no basis for
an order of a state commission reducing the intrastate rate on the
same commodity, and an order requiring such reduction, on that
basis alone, -without a -hearing or consideration of evidence offered
to prove the inadequacy of the rate so fixed, is arbitrary and a
denial of due process. P. 852.
41 Idaho 181, reversed.

CERTIORARI (269

U. S. 550) to a judgment of the Su-

preme Court of Idaho, which affirmed, on appeal of the
above named and three other railroads, an order of the
respondent commission reducing rates oA 7ransportation
of saw-logs intrastate in Idaho.
Messrs. F. M. Duidley and Thomas Balmer, with whom
Messrs. L. B. DaPonte,0. W. Dynes, F. G. Dorety, D. F.
Lyons, and Alex M. Jjfinston were on the brief, for petitionerg.
Mr. CharlesE.Emquist, with whom Mr. A. H. Connor,
Attorney General of Idaho, was on the brief,, for respondent,
MR. JusTIcF, BuTmE.

delivered the opinioni of 'the

Court.
August 20, 1923, respondent made an order reducing
the Idaho intrastate rates for the transportation of saw
logs by railroad. Petitioners appealed to the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Court of the State, and there the order was affirmed.
41 Idaho 181.
The Director General of Railroads by Order No. 28,
effective June 25, 1918, advanced all rates. An addition
of 25 per cent. was made to the interstate and intrastate
rates on saw logs. In 1920 the Interstate Commerce
Commission authorized the carriers further to increase
rates. Ex parte 74, 58 I. C. C. 220, 246. The addition
to freight rates in the mountain-Pacific group that includes Idaho was 25 per cent. The respondent authorized
additions of 25 per cent. to rates on intrastate freight including saw logs. In 1922 the Interstate Commerce Commission found the freight rates unreasonable, on and
after July 1, 1922, to the extent that the rates in effect
immediately before the increases aithorized in Ex parne
74 were exceeded by more than specified percentages;
and that stated for the mountain-Pacific group was 121/2
per cent. The carriers were authorized to reduce rates
in accordance with these findings. Reduced Rates, 1922,
68 I. C. C. 676, 734. As applied to interstate traffic in
saw logs, such reduction was ten per cent. Respondent
authorized corresponding reductions on Idaho intrastate
freight. While the reductions were generally made by
the railroads throughout the country and in Idaho, the
petitioners did not make any reduction of interstate or
intrastate rates on logs. And no reduction of the interstate rate has been ordered by the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
September 28, 1922, the respondent ordered petitioners,
by answer filed within a specified time, to show "compliance or non-compliance in the matter of reduction of
rates on saw logs and other forest products intrastate
within the State of Idaho in accordance with the findings
of the Interstate Commerce Commission," and that they
show cause why such reduction should not be made. The

CHI., ETc. RY. v. PUB. UTIL. COM.
344

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul, the Great Northern
and the Northern Pacific answered. Each stated that it
had put in effect the reduced rates on intrastate freight
except saw logs, and that it had not reduced interstate
or intrastate rates on saw logs because the existing rates
were unreasonably low and confiscatory and should be
increased. At the hearing the carriers offered evidence
that the existing rates were unreasonably low and confiscatory. The Western Pine Manufacturers Association intervened to support the proposed reduction. It
has about 59 members who manufacture annually about
one and a half billion feet of lumber in the Inland Empire-eastern Washington and Oregon, Idaho and west-

ern Montana.

The logs hauled intrastate in Idaho con-

stitute a very small part of those sawed by the members
of the association. The Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint
Paul analyzed its Idaho intrastate log traffic in the first
ten days of each month in 1921. It hauled 3,876 carloads an average distance of 36.2 miles for $68,174.17.
It introduced evidence to show that taxes, operating expenses, rentals and interest on investment chargeable to
that traffic amounted to $94,658.13, and that taxes and
operating expenses alone amounted to $62,622.88. The
Great Northern in 1921 hauled 2,620 carloads an average
distance of 26.2 miles for $46,130.87, and offered evidence that operating expenses chargeable to that traffic
exceeded revenue. The Northern Pacific in the year ending October 1, 1922, hauled 240 carloads. There was no
evidence indicating revenue received from or operating
expenses chargeable to that traffic. But the company
called as a witness its special traffic representative, a
man of long experience in its operating and traffic departments, who testified that in his opinion the rates were
confiscatory. The Spokane and International in 1921
hauled 1,250 carloads for about $22,800. The witnesses

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

called by petitioners made comparisons of rates and testified that those on logs were relatively low. The Western Pine Manufacturers Association, by cross examination of carrier witnesses and by the testimony of its
traffic manager, showed that in the Northwest the Northern PFacific originally established the rates on logs, and
made them very low in order to move the logs to the
mills for the manufacture of lumber to be shipped long
distances to eastern markets; that carriers later building
into that territory pursued the same policy and that the
rates in Idaho were so made; that these rates remained
until federal control; that some of the tariffs state that
the rates are established to furnish logs to manufacturers
who are to forward equivalent products over the carrier's railroad, and that, if the condition is not complied
with, higher rates will be charged. It was not shown to
what extent, if any, such higher rates were collected.
The traffic manager of the association testified that practically all of the lumber moved long distances in interstate commerce; that freight on logs is a part of the
manufacturer's operating cost while freight on lumber is
borne by the consumer. By way of illustration, it was
estimated that the logs hauled intrastate in Idaho by the
Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul in 1921 would produce lumber sufficient to yield freight revenue of $1,279,080 and that those hauled by the Great Northern would
make lumber enough to produce $288,123.
The respondent found the existing rates on saw logs
unreasonable and discriminatory and ordered the carriers
to file tariffs "in compliance with the reductions in the
findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission .
.
applicable to shipments on saw logs intrastate .
.
Respondent's opinion gives the following reasons. The
existing relation between rates on logs and those on other
commodities should be maintained. Hauling logs to the

CHI., ETC. RY. v. PUB. UTIL. COM.
344

Opinion of the Court.

mill is incident to the lumber traffic, which includes the
transportation of the finished products from the mill. A
branch line carrying logs may not of itself yield sufficient
revenue to pay operating expenses, but, when it receives
credits to which it is entitled as part of the system, it is
generally a good revenue producer. As all freight rates
had been twice advanced, it was just and reasonable that
the reduction authorized should apply to all commodities.
The evidence submitted "does not justify the contention
of the carriers that the rates on saw logs are too low when
compared to rates on other commodities, as the transportation of saw logs from the forest to the mill furnishes
profitable business to the railroad system." The hearing
was not a rate hearing, but was held for the purpose of
giving the carriers an opportunity to show why they had
not reduced rates on logs "in accordance with the findings
of the Interstate Commerce Commission." Respondent
had theretofore, "without hearing, adopted the findings of
the Interstate Commerce Commission and made orders
authorizing and permitting rate increases where the findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission determined
that such rate increases were justifiable and reasonable; "
and "now when the Interstate Commerce Commission
. . .determines
that certain rates are unjustifiable
and unreasonable, this commission sees no reason why it
should change its method of procedure and proceed to a
hearing on rates affecting intrastate shipments ". And
it said: "This commission adopts the findings made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission . . . and will
order that tariffs be filed in accordance with said findings
applicable to intrastate shipments on saw logs."
Following the state practice the case was heard in the
Supreme Court on the record made before the respondent. The court held that the respondent was authorized
to reduce the rates in question without finding them un-

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

just or unreasonable. And, as to petitioner's insistence
that the rates prescribed by the order are confiscatory, it
said (p. 197):
that the evidence shows
.
"If it were conceded, .
that the existing rates are already insufficient to pay such
returns upon the capital . . . as the law prescribes
to be a reasonable return upon the capital invested, it
would not necessarily follow that the rates would be confiscatory for the reason that the evidence also tends to
show that the rates paid the carriers for the hauling of
logs from the forest to the mill is only one step in the
process of reducing the lumber in the forest tree to the
finished product and delivering the same to the ultimate
The revenue derived from the shipconsumer. . .
.
is only an incident to the traffic,
ment of logs .
and should not be considered as an independent rate, but
the rate must be considered in connection with the entire
revenue earned" by transporting the logs and the lumber.
The evidence introduced by the carriers was sufficient
to warrant, if not to Tequire, a finding that, as to the lines
of all the petitioners, the intrastate log rates in question
are very low in comparison with the rates on other commodities, and that, as to the Chicago, Milwaukee and
Saint Paul and the Great Northern, they are confiscatory. But, as appears from their opinions, the respondent and the court refused to consider and give weight
to that evidence because, as they held, the intrastate log
rates were not to be dealt with separately but were to be
considered in connection with the interstate lumber rates,
and because the carriers made no showing as to the gains
or losses resulting from the interstate transportation.
That cannot be sustained. The carriers cannot maintain
interstate lumber rates higher than otherwise justified by
showing that they suffer loss or have inadequate returns
from the intrastate transportation of logs. The State
has no power to require petitioners to haul the logs at a

CHI., ETC. RY. v. PUB. UTIL. COM.
344

351

Opinion of the Court.

loss or without compensation that is reasonable and just,

even if they receive adequate revenues from the intrastate
log haul and the interstate lumber haul taken together.
Northern Pacific Ry. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585,
595-596; Norfolk & Western Ry. v. Conley, 236 U. S. 605,
609; Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251
U. S. 396, 399; Northern Pacific v. Dept. Public Works,
268 U. S. 39, 43; Banton v. Belt Line Ry., 268 U. S.
413, 421.
This case is in principle the same as Northern Pacific
v. Dept. Public Works, supra. That case involved the
validity of an order of the Washington Department of
Public Works reducing the intrastate log rates. The
carriers assailed them as confiscatory, and introduced persuasive evidence that the rates existing before the reduction were not sufficient to pay operating expenses and
taxes. The Department, without attacking the proof or
attempting to show by reasonably specific and direct evidence what the actual operating costs were, lowered the
rates on the basis of a composite figure representing the
weighted average operating cost per thousand gross ton
miles on all revenue freight carried on the railroad systems. We applied the rule (p. 44) that, where rates
found by a regulatory body to be compensatory are attacked as being confiscatory, the courts may inquire into
the method by which its conclusion was reached. Cf.
United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274,
288; The Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R.,
222 U. S. 541, 547. And we held that the method pursued by the Department was fundamentally erroneous
and constituted a denial of due process of law.
As the findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission in 1922 do not expressly relate to intrastate rates,
they are to be deemed to apply exclusively to interstate
commerce. Moreover, it appears from its report that

