UNITED STATES v. LUDEY.
Statement of the Case.
UNITED STATES v. LUDEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 289.

Argued April 21, 22, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. Under the income and excess profits provisions of the Revenue
Act of 1916, as amended by Revenue Act of 1917, in determining
the existence and amount of profit realized from a sale of oil-mining
properties-land, leases, and equipment-the cost of the property
sold is the original cost to the taxpayer (if purchased after March
1, 1913, or its value on that date if acquired earlier for less) diminished by deductions for depreciation and depletion occurring between the dates of purchase (or March 1, 1913) and sale. P. 300.
2. The depreciation charge permitted as a deduction from the gross
income in determining the taxable income of a business for any
year represents the reduction, during the year, of the capital assets
through wear and tear of the plant used. P. 300.
3. When a plant is disposed of after years of use, the thing then
sold is not the whole thing originally acquired. The amount of
the depreciation must be deducted from the original cost of the
whole in order to determine the cost of that disposed of in the
final sale of properties. P. 301.
4. This rule applies to mining as well as to mercantile business.
P. 301.
5. The depletion charge permitted as a deduction from the gross
income in determining the taxable income of mines for any year
represents the reduction in the mineral contents of the reserves
from which the product is taken. Because the quantity originally
in the reserve is not actually known, the percentage of the whole,
withdrawn in any year, and hence the appropriate depletion charge,
is necessarily a rough estimate. P. 302.
6. The amounts of depreciation and depletion to be deducted from
cost to ascertain gain on a sale of oil properties, are equal to the
aggregates of depreciation and depletion which the taxpayer was
entitled to deduct from gross income in his income tax returns for
earlier years; but are not dependent on the amounts which he
actually so claimed. P. 303.
61 Ct. CIs. 126, reversed.

CERTIORARI (271 U. S. 651) to a judgment of the Court
of Claims for an amount exacted as additional income and
excess profits taxes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Mr. T. L. Lewis, Jr., Attorney in the Bureau of Internal
Revenue, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
A. W. Gregg, General Counsel, Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Wayne Johnson, with whom Mr. Mark J. Ryan
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRADvEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Ludey brought this suit in the Court of Claims to recover an amount exacted as additional taxes for 1917,
under the income and excess profits provisions of the
Revenue Act of 1916, September 8, 1916, c. 463, Title I,
39 Stat. 756, 757-759, as amended by the Revenue Act
of 1917, October 3, 1917, c. 63, 40 Stat. 300, 329. The tax
was assessed on the alleged gain from a sale in 1917 of
oil mining properties which had been owned and operated by him for several years. The Commissioner of
Internal Revenue determined that there was a gain on
the sale of $26,904.15. Ludey insists that there was a
loss of $14,777.33. The amount sued for is the tax assessed on the difference. Whether there was the gain or
the loss depends primarily upon whether deductions for
depletion and depreciation are to be made from the original cost in determining gain or loss on sale of oil mining
properties. The question is one of statutory construction or application. The Court of Claims entered judgment for the plaintiff. 61 Ct. Cls. 126. This Court
granted a writ of certiorari. 271 U. S. 651.
The properties consisted, besides mining equipment, in
part of oil land held in fee, in part of oil mining leases.
The aggregate original cost of the properties was $95977.33.' Of this amount $30,977.33 was the cost of the

I Some of the properties were purchased before March 1, 1913.
As to these the term cost is used, throughout the opinion, as mean-

UNITED STATES v. LUDEY.
295

'297

Opinion of the Court.

equipment used in the business; $65,000 the cost of the
oil reserves. The 1917 sale price was $81,200. For the
purpose of determining the cost of the properties sold in
1917 the Commissioner deducted from the original cost
$10,465.16 on account of depreciation of the equipment
through wear and tear, and $32,258.81 on account of depletion of the reserves through the taking out of oil by
the plaintiff, after March 1, 1913. There was no dispute
of fact concerning the correctness of the estimates upon
which these deductions were made. The finding of the
depletion was in accordance with the method of computation employed by the Bureau of Internal Revenue;
and there was no objection specifically to the method of
computation. But Ludey insisted that the amount of
depletion, if any, could not be found or stated as a fact,
since, in the nature of the case, it was impossible to determine how much oil was recoverable either when he
acquired the properties or when he disposed of them.
The finding of the depreciation was, likewise, in accordance with the method of computation employed by the
Bureau; and there was no objection to the method of
computation. But Ludey insisted also in respect to depreciation that the property was, as a matter of law,
unchanged in character and quantity throughout the
period of operation.
Until 1924, none of the revenue acts provided in terms
that, in computing the gain from a sale of any property,
a deduction shall be made from the original cost on account of depreciation and depletion during the period of
operation.' But ever since March 1, 1913, the revenue
ing their value as of March 1, 1913, that value being higher than
the original cost.
2The 1924 Act, June 2, 1924, ยง 202 (b), 43 Stat. 253, 255, provided
that in computing gain or loss from sales, adjustment should be made
for items of exhaustion, wear and tear, and depletion "previously
allowed with respect to such property." See Regulations 65, Arts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

298

Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

acts have required that gains from sales made within the
tax year shall be included in the taxable income of the
year, and that losses on sales may be deducted from gross
income. And each of the acts has provided that, in computing the taxable income derived from operating a
mine, there may be made a deduction from the gross
income for the depreciation and that some deduction may
be made for depletion. The applicable provisions of
ยง 5 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1916 concerning deductions to be allowed in computing net income are these:
"Fourth. Losses actually sustained during the year,
incurred in his business or trade . . . Provided,
That

.

.

.

the

.

.

.

value of

.

.

.

property

[acquired before March 1, 1913] as of March first, nineteen hundred and thirteen, shall be the basis for determining the amount of such loss.
"Seventh. A reasonable allowance for the exhaustion,
wear and tear of property arising out of its use or employment in the business or trade;
"Eighth. (a) In the case of oil and gas wells a reasonable allowance for actual reduction in flow and production . . . (b) in the case of mines a reasonable
: Provided,
allowance for depletion thereof . . .
.
shall equal the capiThat when the allowances .

no further allowance
tal originally invested . .
shall be made."
Ludey does not deny that Congress has power to require that deductions for depreciation and depletion shall
be made from the original cost when determining the cost
of oil properties sold. His contention is that, at the time
of the sale in question, Congress had not in terms re1591-1603. The 1926 Act, Feb. 26, 1926, ยง 202 (b) 44 Stat. 9, 11-12,
has a similar provision with respect to deductions "allowable
under this Act or prior income tax laws." See Regulations 69,
Art. 1561.

UNITED STATES v. LUDEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

quired the deductions in the case of any property, and
that special reasons exist why the acts should be construed as not requiring the deductions in the case of oil
wells. He urges that a corporation organized for the purpose of utilizing a wasting property, like an iron mine,
is not deemed to have divided a part of its capital, merely
because it has distributed the net proceeds of its mining
operations; that this is true even where the necessary
result of the operation is a reduction of the mineral reserve; that, a fortiori,the proceeds of oil mining are to be
deemed income, not a partial return of capital, since there
is no ownership in oil until it is actually reduced to possession; that a purchase of an oil reserve cannot be likened
to the purchase of a certain number of barrels of oil; that
an oil reserve is not a reservoir; that Congress allowed the
deduction from gross income for depreciation and depletion probably as a reward in an extrahazardous enterprise
in order to encourage new producing properties; and that
to allow the deductions would result, in the event of a
sale of the property, in taking back the rewards so
offered.
The Government contends that in operating the properties- Ludey disposed, in the form of oil, of part of his
capital assets; that in the extraction of the oil he consumed so much of the equipment as was represented by
the depreciation and disposed of so much of the oil reserves as was represented by the depletion; that the sale
of the properties made by him in 1917 was not a sale of
all of the property represented by the original cost of
$95,977.33, since physical equipment to the amount of the
depreciation, and oil reserves to the amount of the depletion, had been taken from it during the preceding years;
and that, for this reason, the cost to plaintiff of the net
property sold in 1917 was not $95,977.33, but $53,258.36.
The Court of Claims did not consider whether ordinarily deductions for depreciation and for depletion from the

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

original cost would be proper in. determining whether
there had been a profit on a sale of property. It held
that no deduction from original cost should be made here
because of the nature of oil mining properties. The deduction for depletion was, in its opinion, wrong, because
oil properties are in essence merely the right to extract
from controlled land such oil as the owner of the right
can find and reduce to possession; because the existence
of oil in any parcel of land is dependent upon the movement which the oil makes from time to time under the
surface; and because whether there is oil in place which
can be reduced to possession, and if so, how much, cannot
be definitely determined. It held that, in the case at bar,
the right to explore for and take out oil may actually have
been more valuable at the time of the sale than at the time
of the purchase; and that, for this reason, the removal of
the oil by plaintiff during the years of operation cannot
be said to have depleted the capital. It held that the
depreciation was not deductible, because wear and tear of
equipment was an expense or incident of the business.
We are of opinion that the revenue acts should be construed as requiring deductions for both depreciation and
depletion when determining the original cost of oil properties sold. Congress, in providing that the basis for determining gain or loss should be the cost or the 1913
value, was not attempting to provide an exclusive formula for the computation.' The depreciation charge permitted as a deduction from the gross income in determining the taxable income of a business for any year represents the reduction, during the year, of the capital assets
through wear and tear of the plant used. The amount of
the allowance for depreciation is the sum which should be
3See Appeal of Even Realty Co., 1 B. T. A. 355. Compare Appeal
of Steiner Coal Co., I B. T. A. 821; Appeal of W. W. Carter Co.,
1 B. T. A. 849; Appeal of Keighley Mfg. Co., 2 B. T. A. 10.

UNITED STATES v. LUDEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

set aside for the taxable year, in order that, at the end of
the useful life of the plant in the business, the aggregate
of the sums set aside will (with the salvage value) suffice
to provide an amount equal to the original cost. The
theory underlying this allowance for depreciation is that
by using up the plant, a gradual sale is made of it. The
depreciation charged is the measure of the cost of the
part which has been sold. When the plant is disposed of
after years of use, the thing then sold is not the whole
thing originally acquired. The amount of the depreciation must be deducted from the original cost of the whole
in order to determine the cost of that disposed of in the
final sale of properties.4 Any other construction would
permit a double deduction for the loss of the same capital
assets.
Such being the rule applicable to manufacturing and
mercantile businesses, no good reason appears why the
business of mining should be treated differently. The
reasons urged for refusing to apply the rule specifically
to oil mining properties seem to us unsound. If the
equipment had been used by its owner on the oil properties owned by another, it would hardly be contended
that the depreciation through wear and tear resulting
from its use should be ignored in determining, on a sale
of the equipment, whether its owner had made a gain or
a loss. The fact that the equipment sold is owned by
4 Under regulations of the Bureau the amount of the year's
depreciation is required to be fixed in accordance with a reasonably
consistent plan; and it must, in order to be allowed, have been

entered on the books of the business either as a deduction from the
book value of the plant or as a credit to a depreciation reserve
account. See Regulations 33 Revised, Art. 159; Regulations 45,
Art. 169; Regulations 62, Art. 169; Regulations 65, Art 169; Regu-

lations 69, Art 169. In either event it would be reflected in the
annual balance sheet. After the total of such credits equals the
original cost no further deduction i allowed,

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the person who owned the mining rights, like the fact
that it is used in one class of mining rather than in another, may have an important bearing both upon the
price realized on the sale and upon the rate of depreciation which should be allowed; but these facts cannot
affect the question whether the part which has been theretofore consumed by use shall be ignored in determining
whether a sale of what remains has resulted in a loss or
a _gain.
The depletion charge permitted as a deduction from
the gross income in determining the taxable income of
mines for any year represents the reduction in the mineral contents of the reserves from which the product is
taken. The reserves are recognized as wasting assets.
The depletion effected by operation is likened to the using
up of raw material in making the product of a manufacturing establishment. As the cost of the raw material
must be deducted from the gross income before the net
income can be determined, so the estimated cost of the
part of the reserve used up is allowed. The fact that the
reserve is hidden from sight presents difficulties in making an estimate of the amount of the deposits. The
actual quantity can rarely be measured. It must be approximated. And because the quantity originally in the
reserve is not actually known, the percentage of the
whole withdrawn in any year, and hence the appropriate
depletion charge, is necessarily a rough estimate. But
Congress concluded, in the light of experience, that it
was better to act upon a rough estimate than to ignore
the fact of depletion.
The Corporation Tax Law of 1909 had failed to provide for any deduction on account of the depletion of
mineral reserves. Stratton's Independence v. Howbert,
231 U. S. 399; von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242
U. S. 503; United States v. Biwabik Mining Co., 247 U. S.
116; Goldfield ConsolidatedMines Co. v. Scott, 247 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. LUDEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

126. The resulting hardship to operators of mines induced Congress to make provision in the Revenue Law
of 1913 and all later Acts for some deduction on account
of depletion in determining the amount of the taxable
It is not lightly to be assumed that
income from mines
Congress intended the fact to be ignored in determining
whether there was a loss or a gain on a sale of the mining properties. The proviso limiting the amount of the
deduction for depletion to the amount of the capital invested shows that the deduction is to be regarded as a
return of capital, not as a special bonus for enterprise
and willingness to assume'risks. It is argued that, because oil is a fugacious mineral, it cannot be kn own that
the reserve has been diminished by the operation of wells.
Perhaps some land may be discovered which, like the
Widow's cruse, will afford an inexhaustible supply of oil.
But the common experience of man has been that oil
wells, and the territory in which they are sunk, become
exhausted in time. Congress in providing for the deduction for depletion of oil wells acted on that experience.
Compare Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Co., 267 U. S. 364.
In essence, the deduction for depletion does not differ
from the deduction for depreciation.
The Court of Claims erred in holding that no deduction should be made from the original cost on account of
depreciation and depletion; but it does not follow that
the amount deducted by the Commissioner was the correct one. The aggregate for depreciation and depletion
claimed by Ludey in the income tax returns for the years
1913, 1914, 1915 and 1916, and allowed, was only $5,156.
5 The Bureau requires that taxpayers claiming depletion deductions
shall keep a ledger account in which deductions claimed are credited
against the cost of the property, or that a depletion reserve account
be set up. See Regulations 33 Revised, Art. 171, 172; Regulations
45, Art. 216; Regulations 62, Art 216; Regulations 65, Art. 217;

Regulations 69, Art. 217.

