ARKANSAS COMM. v. CHICAGO, ETC. R. R.

597

Counsel for Parties.

ARKANSAS RAILROAD COMMISSION

ET AL.

V.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 549. Argued April 20, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. Failure to set forth the reasons for issuing an injunction, as re-

quired by ยง 19 of the Act of October 15, 1914, is improper but
does not invalidate the decree. P. 598.
2. A decree of the District Court setting aside an order of a state
railroad commission concerning rates should be supported by an
opinion stating fully the reasons. P. 603.
3. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring that
certain intrastate rates should not be lower than corresponding
interstate rates thereby established is not authority for further
increasing the intrastate rates to meet higher interstate rates prescribed in subsequent proceedings wherein the commission considered the propriety of ordering such increase but refused to do
so, the commission having, in effect, construed the earlier order
as confined to the rates established in the earlier case. P. 602.
4. Where there is a serious doubt whether an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission extends to intrastate rates, the doubt should
be resolved in favor of the state power. P. 603.
Reversed.

APPEA from a final decree of the District Court enjoining an order of the Arkansas Railroad Commission
which suspended an intrastate commodity tariff filed by
the Railroad. The suit was by the Railroad against the
Commission and a state prosecuting attorney.
Mr. Edward A. Haid,with whom Messrs. H. W. Applegate, Attorney General of Arkansas, and Brooks Hays, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Thomas S. Buzbee, with whom Messrs. Marcus L.
Bell and William F. Dickinson were on the brief, for
appellee.

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

AM. JusTIcs BRA EIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a direct appeal from a final decree of the federal
court for eastern Arkansas granting an injunction under
paragraph 3 of ยง 238 of the Judicial Code as amended
by the Act of February 13, 1925. The plaintiff below
was the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad; the
defendants the Arkansas Railroad Commission and a state
prosecuting attorney. The controversy concerns an order
of the state commission which suspends for examination
an intrastate commodity tariff, framed on the mileage
basis, which had been filed by the Railroad to cover cottonseed and its products. A restraining order issued two
days after the filing of the bill in accordance with a
stipulation of the parties. An interlocutory injunction
was granted after overruling a motion to dismiss the bill.
The defendants then answered. The case was heard
before three judges on final hearing; and evidence which
occupies 174 pages of the printed record was introduced.
The final decree sets aside the order of the state commission suspending the tariffs and enjoins -enforcement of
that order.
No opinion was delivered on entry of either the interlocutory or the final decree. And neither decree states
the reasons for issuing the injunction. Failure to observe
the requirement of ยง 19 of the Act of October 15, 1914,
c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 738; Code of Laws, Title 28, ยง 383,
p. 909, although improper, does not invalidate the decrees.
Lawrence v. St. Louis-San FranciscoRy. Co., ante, p. 588.
But we are of opinion that on the undisputed facts the
decree appealed from should be reversed with directions
to dismiss the bill.
The tariff filed by the Railroad, which the Arkansas
Commission suspendec, covers only intrastate rates. It
corresponds with tariffs for interstate rates which the In-

ARKANSAS COMM. v. CHICAGO, ETC. R. R.
597

599

Opinion of the Court.

terstate Commerce Commission prescribed. The earlier
intrastate tariff for which it was a substitute was lower.
The Railroad claims that the state commission should
be enjoined because the earlier tariff is unlawful and that
the suspended tariff, although applicable only to intrastate rates, is valid, under the doctrine of the Shreveport
case, Houston East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342. The Railroad concedes that States
have the exclusive right to fix intrastate rates, subject to
the limitation that such rates must not unduly discriminate against interstate commerce; that a mere difference
in rate does not constitute an undue discrimination; that
the question whether discrimination exists is one for the
Interstate Commerce Commission; that to justify federal
interference there must be substantial disparity resulting
in real discrimination; and that the extent of the alleged
discrimination must be found in the federal commission's
order. It contends that the Interstate Commerce Commission found that the existing intrastate class and commodity tariff discriminated unjustly against interstate
commerce; that it ordered the removal of the discrimination; and that the Railroad had, therefore, the right and
the duty to substitute a new non-discriminating tariff.
The answer of the state commission is a denial that the
federal commission made such finding or order.
The issue presented must be determined by construing
the reports and orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The controversy had its origin in a general
enquiry, arising out of alleged discrimination against
Memphis through Arkansas and other intrastate rates, but
extending to the entire rate schedule of the Southwest
and between the Southwest and Mississippi river crossings-an investigation which has occupied much time of
the federal commission.' The particular question here
The controversy began with complaints, ffied by Memphis and
Natchez interests, alleging that the rates from Memphis and Natchez

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

presented involves primarily only the reports and orders
in two cases, Memphis-SouthwesternInvestigation-Commodity Rates, 77 1. C. C. 473, and Oklahoma Commission
v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 98 I. C. C. 183. In the
former case a standard distance scale of rates on commodities, including those on cottonseed and its products, was
prescribed or approved (i) interstate from the river crossings to points in Arkansas, southern Missouri, and western
Louisiana; (ii) interstate between points in Arkansas,
southern Missouri, and western Louisiana; and (iii) the
same scale was virtually prescribed intrastate in Arkansas
by a finding that, to avoid discrimination, the rates from
Memphis and Natchez to Arkansas should not exceed, for
equal distances, the Arkansas intrastate rates.' There was
an express finding that the Arkansas intrastate rates were
discriminatory and an order that the discrimination should
to Arkansas were prejudicial as compared with Arkansas intrastate
rates, and with the rates from other Mississippi River crossings to
Arkansas. See Memphis Freight Bureau v. St. L. L M. & S. Ry.
Co., 39 I. C. C. 224; City of Memphis v. C. R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
39 I. C. C. 256; 43 I. C. C. 121; 45 I. C. C. 487; Natchez Chamber
of Commerce v. L. & A. Ry. Co., 52 I. C. C. 105. Efforts to obey
orders made in those cases revealed that it was difficult to deal with
the rates there involved except as part of a general adjustment of
rates in the Southwest. Accordingly those cases were reopened for
consideration in a general investigation. The first report of the general investigation established a distance scale of maximum interstate
class rates between points in Arkansas, Oklahoma, and southern Missouri; and between certain river crossings and such points. MemphisSouthwestern Investigation, 55 I. C. C. 515. It virtually prescribed
the same scale of class rates intrastate in Arkansas by finding that
the intrastate rates should not be less, for equal distances, than the
interstate rates from Memphis and Natchez to Arkansas. In Extension of Memphis-Southwestern Scale, 62 I. C. C. 596, the same scale of
class rates was approved for extension to Texas points. All these
cases dealt with class rates only; the reports referred to in the text
deal with commodity rates only.
2 Throughout the opinion no mention is made of charges for the
ferry and bridge crossings of the Mississippi. All the distance scales

ARKANSAS COMM. v. CHICAGO,
597

ETc.

R. R.

601

Opinion of the Court.

be removed. Thereupon, the intrastate rates were
changed, in conformity with the order; and those in force
at the time of the institution of this suit were filed, to become effective as of November 27, 1923. Ultimately they
had the approval of the state commission. The findings
and orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission in that
case (77 I. C. C. 473) were made without prejudice to
any orders which might be made in the Oklahoma Commission case or in others then pending.
In the Oklahoma Commission case (98 I. C. C. 183),
attack was made upon the interstate rates on cottonseed
and its products, not only upon those in the territory involved in the Memphis-Southwestern case, but also upon
those in Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico and upon
those from such points to western classification territory.
The intrastate rates of New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma,
Arkansas, western Louisiana, and southern Missouri were
also attacked. The report prescribed an interstate distance scale on such products throughout most of the territory involved, and between such territory and the Mississippi river crossings (East St. Louis and south), the
scale being somewhat higher than the Memphis-Southwestern scale. The Texas and Oklahoma intrastate rates
were found prejudicial to interstate commerce to the extent to which they were lower than the interstate rates,
for like distances in force in those states. But the Interstate Commerce Commission made no finding or order
with reference to the Arkansas intrastate rates, saying:
prescribed by the Commission make provision for added charges for
Auch crossings; and the discrimination orders against the intrastate

rates make allowance for such charges.
The Memphis-Southwestern distance scale was later put into effect
voluntarily intrastate in Louisiana. And it was approved for application from Oklahoma, Arkansas, and western Louisiana to Fort
Worth. Fort Worth Cotton Oil Co. v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 80
I. C. C. 18.

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

"The evidence of record upon which a conclusion may
be reached as to the discriminatory character of the intrastate rates on cottonseed and cottonseed cake, meal, and
hulls now in effect in Arkansas and on all these commodities applying between points in Louisiana is very meager.
. We are not informed as to the routes over which
the Arkansas intrastate rates apply, and particular
instances of discrimination in the present rates are
absent."
The Railroad concedes that intrastate Arkansas rates
are not within the terms of the order of the federal commission in the Oklahoma Commission case. Its argument
is that in the Memphis-Southwestern case it was ordered
that the Memphis to Arkansas rates should not exceed the
Arkansas intrastate rates; that that order has not been rescinded; and hence that when the interstate rate from
Memphis to Arkansas was raised as a result of the Oklahoma Commission case, it became the duty of the railroads to raise the intrastate rates to a corresponding degree. But it appears that in the later case the Interstate Commerce Commission considered the propriety of
ordering the Arkansas intrastate rates raised to the new
level, and refused to do so. There was no rescission in
terms of the former order. But when the two orders are
read together, as they must be, it is clear that the Commission construed its earlier order as requiring only that
the Arkansas rates should not be lower than the interstate
Memphis to Arkansas rates prescribed in that case, as
long as they should be maintained.3

aThe latest report of the Interstate Commerce Commission dealing
with Southwestern rates, April 5, 1927, appears not to apply to the
commodity rates on cottonseed and its products here in question.
ConsolidatedSouthwestern Cases, 123 I. C. C. 203, 360-362, 409-410,
429-439. See also Commodity Rates in Southwestern Territory, 101
I. C. C. 308.

