AMERICAN NATIONAL CO. v. U. S.
Statement of the Case.

91

executors on the theory that their receipt, in and of itself,
constituted an increase in its capital.

The executors' motion to dismiss and affirm must accordingly be denied; and the judgment reversed. But,
the Court being advised that the respondent Maxwell, one
of the executors, has died since January 20, 1927, the day
on which this case was argued and submitted, the judgment here will be entered nunc pro tunc as of that day.
"QuonQuon Poy v. Johnson,273 U. S. 352, and cases cited.
Judgment reversed, nunc pro tunc.

AMERICAN NATIONAL COMPANY, RECEIVER, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 167.

Argued February 25, 1927M-Decided April 11, 1927.

A corporation, in the business of making and selling loans on five
year notes and mortgages, derived its income from commissions
in the form of two year notes made by the borrowers; and, in
selling loan notes to investors, agreed, as an inducement, to pay
them bonuses of a specified per cent. yearly of the loans sold,
during the life thereof. Held that, under § 13(d) of the Revenue
Act of 1916, and regulations of the Treasury pursuant thereto, a
method of accounting which accrued the aggregate of the commission notes received during a tax year as income thereof, though
not then due and payable, and which similarly accrued the aggregate of bonus contracts made during the year as expenses thereof,
correctly reflected the income, and that such aggregate of bonus
contracts was properly deducted from the gross of the commissions
in ascertaining taxable income. United States v. Anderson, 269
U. S. 422. P. 103.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court in favor
of the United States, in a suit under the Claims Act (Jud.

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Code § 24, par. 20) to recover an amount paid under protest as an income and excess profits tax.
Mr. Charles H. Garnett, with whom Mr. Streeter B.
Flynn was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcF, SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The receiver of the F. B. Collins Investment Company-proceeding under § 24, par. 20, of the Judicial
Code, 1 -brought this suit against the United States to
recover an additional income and excess profits tax of
$4,287.64 that had been assessed against the Company for
the year 1917, under the Revenue Act of 1916,2 and the
War Revenue Act of 1917,1 and paid by it under protest.
The District Court, sitting as a Court of Claims, on its
findings of fact, entered judgment in favor of the United
States, before the effective date of the Jurisdictional Act
of 1925. And this direct appeal was allowed. J. Homer
Fritch,Inc. v. United States, 248 U. S.458.
The question here presented is whether, under the
provisions of the Revenue Act of 1916, the Company in
computing its taxable net income for 1917, was entitled
to deduct from its gross income the amount of certain
obligations for the payment of money which it claimed
were "expenses" incurred in the operation of its business
within that year.
The Revenue Act of 1916 provided, in §§ 12(a) and
13(a), that the net income of a corporation should be
ascertained by deducting from its gross income received
'U.S. ?., Tit. 28, § 41(20).
239 Stat. 756, co 463.
3 40

Stat. 300, c. 63.

AMERICAN NATIONAL CO. v. U. S.
99

Opinion of the Court.

within the year, first, the "ordinary and necessary expenses paid within the year in the maintenance and
operation of its business "; and, in § 13(d), that a corporation "keeping accounts upon any basis other than that
of actual receipts and disbursements, unless such other
basis does not clearly reflect its income, may, subject to
regulations made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, . . . make its return upon the basis upon which
its accounts are kept, in which case the tax shall be computed upon its income as so returned." In Treasury
Decision 2433,1 issued in January, 1917, dealing with the
latter provision, the Commissioner ruled that: "Under
this provision it will be permissible for corporations which
accrue on their books monthly or at other stated periods
amounts sufficient to meet fixed annual or other charges
to deduct from their gross income the amounts so accrued,
provided such accruals approximate as nearly as possible
the actual liabilities for which the accruals are made, and
provided that in cases wherein deductions are made on
the accrual basis as hereinbefore indicated income from
fixed and determinable sources accruing to the corporations must be returned, for the purpose of the tax, on the
same basis. . .
This ruling contemplates that the
income and authorized deductions shall be computed and
accounted for on the same basis and that the same practice
shall be consistently followed year after year."
The findings of fact show that the Company, an Oklahoma corporation, had been engaged since 1908 in the
business of making loans secured by mortgages upon real
estate, which it negotiated and sold to investors. Under
its usual course of business the borrower, upon the making
of a loan, executed to the order of the Company his note
for the amount loaned, due in five years, with interest
at five per cent. per annum, payable semiannually; with
the privilege of paying $100 or any multiple thereof on
4

Treas. Dec., Int. Rev., 1917, p. 5.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the principal, on or after two years, at the maturity of
any interest payment. At the same time the borrower
executed to the Company another note due in two years,
without interest, for ten per cent. of the total amount
of the loan, as the Company's commission or compensation for making and negotiating the loan. From these
commission notes the Company derived its income.
At first the Company negotiated and sold the loan
notes to investors entirely through brokers or agents, to
whom it paid fees or commissions. But from and after
1916 it sold many of these notes direct to investors; and
being thus relieved from payment of these fees or commissions, and as an inducement to investors to purchase
from it direct, agreed to pay them bonuses upon the notes
as added consideration for the purchases; this being evidenced by a contract, styled a Guarantee, which the Company gave the investor, agreeing to pay him during the
life of the loan, according to the terms of the note, one
per cent. per annum of its amount, in addition to the five
per cent. per annum that the borrower was to pay.
The Company consistently kept its books of account
from year to year on an" accrual basis." Under the practice followed from the inception of its bonus method of
doing business, whenever a loan note was sold it charged
on its books, as.an expense incurred in the sale, the aggregate amount of the payments called for in the bonus
contract, computed at one per cent. per annum to the
maturity of the note, and credited the investor on its
books with a like amount, in a subsidiary bills payable
ledger. The total amount of this liability on the bonus
contracts was carried on its general ledger under a control
account called the Guarantee Fund Account.
In the year 1917, in accordance with this practice, the
Company accrued and set up on its books as a liability and
charged to expense, the aggregate amount of the payments
called for in the bonus contracts given investors during

AMERICAN NATIONAL CO. v. U. S.
99

Opinion of the Court.

that year. And it made its tax return for that year upon
the basis upon which the accounts were kept, claiming as
an expense the aggregate amount of these bonus contracts, as set up on its books. And, as admitted in argument, although not shown specifically by the findings of
fact, it also entered on its books and returned as income
received during the year, the aggregate amount of the
commission notes given by the borrowers when it made
the loans.
Furthermore, under the Company's practice, if any loan
note was paid by the borrower before maturity, the difference between the amount of the bonus contract credited
to the investor's account and the payments that had been
made on the contract, was credited back to Profit and
Loss, and treated as income of the Company for the year
in which the note was paid.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue disallowed the
claim of the Company for the deduction of the total
amount of the bonus contracts issued in 1917, and allowed
the deduction only to the extent of the installments called
for by such contracts which matured in 1917; and in accordance with this ruling made the additional assessment
which is here involved. And the sole question here is
whether the Company was entitled to deduct the entire
amount of the bonus contracts, as it claimed, or merely
such portion thereof as became due within the year, as
ruled by the Commissioner.
The Government, although conceding that the bonus
contracts "represented an expense" of the Company's
business, contends that their total amount was not deductible as an expense "incurred" in 1917, on the grounds
that only a part of the obligations "accrued" within that
year, and that the method used by the Company in keeping its books did not clearly reflect its true income. We
cannot sustain this contention.
In United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, 437, we
held that where a corporation kept its books on an ac-

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court

274 U. S.

crual basis, the amount of a reserve entered thereon for
taxes imposed by the United States on the profits of mu-

nitions made and sold during the taxable year, should
be deducted from its gross income for that year, although
they were not assessed and did not become due until the
following year. The Court said: "While § 12(a) taken by
itself would appear to require the income tax return to
be made on the basis of actual receipts and disbursements,
it is to be read with § 13(d) . . . providing in substance that a corporation keeping its books on a basis
other than receipts and disbursements, may make its return on that basis provided it is one which reflects income.
.
Treasury Decision 2433 . .
recognized the right of the corporation to deduct all accruals
. . . made on its books to meet liabilities, provided
the return included income accrued and, as made, reflected true net income. . . . A consideration of the
difficulties involved in the preparation of an income account on a strict basis of receipts and disbursements
. . indicates with no uncertainty the purpose of
§§ 12(a) and 13(d) .
.
to enable taxpayers to keep
their books and make their returns according to scientific accounting principles, by charging against income
earned during the taxable period, the expenses incurred
and properly attributable to the process of earning income during that period; and indeed, to require the tax
return to be made on that basis, if the taxpayer failed or
was unable to mak& the return on a strict receipts and
disbursements basis. . . . The [corporation's] true
income could not have been determined without deducting from its gross income during the year the total costs
and expenses attributable to the production of that income during the year. . . . In the economic and
bookkeeping sense with which the statute and Treasury
decision were concerned, the [munitions] taxes had accrued. It should be noted that § 13(d) makes no use of
the words 'accrue' or 'accrual' but merely provides for

AMERICAN NATIONAL CO. v. U. S.
99

Opinion of the Court.

a return upon the basis upon which the taxpayer's accounts are kept, if it reflects income. . . . We do not
think that the Treasury decision contemplated a return
on any other basis when it used the terms 'accrued' and
'accrual' and provided for the deduction by the taxpayer of items 'accrued on their books.'"
So, in the present case, we think that the amount of
the bonus contracts was "an expense incurred and properly attributable" to the Company's process of earning
income during the year 1917. These contracts were not
analogous to obligations to pay interest on money borrowed, but were expenses incurred in selling the loan
notes in as real a sense as if under its original system of
doing business the Company had paid these amounts to
brokers as fees for selling the loans or given them notes
for such fees. The Company's net income for the year
could not have been rightly determined without deducting from the gross income represented by the commission
notes, the obligations which it incurred under the bonus
contracts, and would not have been accurately shown
by keeping its books or making its return on the basis of
actual receipts and disbursements. The method which
it adopted clearly reflected the true income. And, just
as the aggregate amount of the commission notes was
properly included in its gross income for the year-

although not due and payable until the expiration of
two years-so, under the doctrine of the Anderson case,
the total amount of the bonus contracts was deductible
as an expense incurred within the year, although it did
not "accrue" in that year, in the sense of becoming

then due and payable.
We conclude that the assessment of the additional
tax, having been based upon an erroneous disallowance
of the deduction claimed by the Company, was invalid;
and that the receiver was entitled to recover the amount
paid, with interest.

The decree of the District Court is accordingly
Reversed.

