MORRIS v. DUBY.
123

Syllabus.

tution of the present suit, effected no change in the local
law, upon which appellees had relied. It must be accepted as establishing the effect as res adjudicata of the
proceeding had under the Missouri statute. Compare
Edward Hines Trustees v. Martin, 268 U. S. 458.
Whether the proceeding be regarded as an action in
rem, Christiansonv. King County, 239 U. S. 356, 373, or
an action in personam, there is in the two litigations a
sufficient identity of issues and of parties to conclude the
parties to the present suit. United States v. California
Bridge Co., 245 U. S. 337, 341. Viewed as an action in
personam, appellants acquired their title to the tax bills
by purchase from the contractor, whose right to them
was derived through the exercise by the city of powers
adjudicated in the circuit court proceedings to be in it
and properly exercised by it. As to those powers, and
hence their rights originating in the exercise of them,
appellants were represented by the city and may take
the benefit of the judgment in its favor. United States
v. CaliforniaBridge Co., supra, 341.
Judgment reversed.
MORRIS ET AL. v. DUBY ET AL., COMMISSIONERS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT

OF OREGON.

No. 372. Argued October 29, 1926.-Decided April 18, 1927.
1. The power of the States to make reasonable regulations to protect
highways from damage by vehicles is not affected by the Acts of
Congress providing for national and state co6peration in the

construction of rural post roads. P. 143.
* On the above date the Court entered an order remanding the case
and vacating the judgment of the District Court upon the ground
that the case had become moot. On January 10, 1927, the previous
order was vacated on joint motion of counsel and the case was
restored for reargument on February 28, 1927. On that day the
case was submitted.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellants.

274 IT. S.

2. A state order limiting the maximum weight of motor trucks and
loads on highways in the State is valid, if reasonable and nondiscriminatory, and is applicable to vehicles moving in interstate
commerce, in the absence of legislation by Congress. P. 143.
3. The fact that a truck company, in interstate commerce, may not
make a profit if loads are limited as prescribed by a state highway
regulation, does not prove the regulation unreasonable or discriminatory, and the fact that its competition with parallel steam roads
may be prevented is outweighed by the fact that greater loads
damage the highways. P. 144.
4. In the absence of a showing of fraud or abuse of discretion, a
finding of the proper state administrative body as to the damage
caused to highways by loads exceeding a specified weight must be
accepted by this Court. P. 144.
5. The Acts of Congress and of Oregon for state and federal coiperation respecting construction and maintenance of highways do not
impose a contractual obligation on the State to continue permitting the weights of trucks and loads that were permitted on the
highways when the agreement was made. P. 144.
6. Under the convention effected between the State and the United
States by the State's acceptance of the conditions prescribed in
the Acts of Congress providing for state and federal co~peration,
and use cf federal funds, in improvement of highway systems and
in facilitating carriage of the mail over them, maintenance of a
highway is primarily imposed on the State, and regulation of its
use is therefore a state function in which it is not to be interfered
with unless regulations adopted are so arbitrary or unreasonable
as to defeat the purposes of the federal acts. P. 145.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court

refusing an

interlocutory injunction and dismissing the bill, in a suit
to enjoin the members of the Oregon Highway Commission from enforcing an order limiting the weight of trucks
and loads that may operate on a highway in the State.
Messrs. W. R.

Crawford and Edwin C. Ewing for ap-

pellants, submitted.

Sections 35 and 36 of the Oregon law enacted in 1921,
as amended in 1923, and the acts of the highway com-

mission thereunder, in reducing the capacity of certain

MORRIS v. DUBY,
135

Argument for Appellees.

motor trucks., are unconstitutional and void, being in violation of the federal Constitution and the federal Highway Act, which was adopted by the State in 191Z.
The federal Highway Act provided that the entire jurisdiction over federal-aided highways was to be vested in
the federal government and gave the power and authority
to the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out its provisions. The Secretary of Agriculture has the only power
to take steps to conserve and preserve such highways and
insure the safety of traffic thereon, and the enactment of
the 1921 law and the 1923 amendments, and the acts of
the highway commission in issuing and enforcing the
order, were directly in violation of the agreement made
by the State in the adoption of the provisions of the federal law in 1917. Neilson v. Oregon, 212 U. S. 315; New
Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cr. 165; Buck v. Kuykendall, 267
U. S. 307.
This order directly effects the just and reasonable
charges on the interstate business.
If the State had directly fixed the present tariff and
reduced the same 50% on said interstate business, the appellants would be entitled to an injunction and a decree
after final hearing on the ground that such exaction would
have been contrary to and in violation of the Constitution
of the United States as being arbitrary, unreasonable and
confiscatory. We consider that such order has the same
effect. Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307;
Chicago R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Reagan v.
Loan Co., 154 U. S. 362; St. Louis .1. Co. v. Gill, 156
U. S. 649; Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307. The order
-is arbitrary and unreasonable and created a monopoly in
favor of other common carriers in competition with the
trucks of appellants.
Mr. J. M. Devers, Assistant Attorney General of Oregon,
with whom Mr. L H. Van Winkle, Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellees.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Argument for Appellees.

274 II. S.

The paramount control of the public highways of the
State is vested in the legislature. Control is sometimes
delegated, but is never surrendered. 13 R. C. L., § 143;
Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Cicero Lbr. Co. v. Cicero,
176 Ill. 9; Salem v. Anson, 40 Ore. 339; Elliott, Roads
and Streets, 2d ed. p. 8; Brand v. Multnomah County,
38 Ore. 79; Yocum v. Sheridan,68 Ore. 237.
The right to regulate the public highways can not be
abridged, alienated or contracted'away by the legislature.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Priggv. Pennsylvania,
16 Pet. 539; Leisy v. Hardin,.435 U. S. 100; Boyd v.
Allen, 94 U. S. 645; Stone v. Mississippi,101 U. S. 814.
The matter of regulating the amount of loads to be
hauled over the highways is within the discretion of the
authorities charged with their care and maintenance;
and when any such regulation within the scope of the
authority of the law-making power has been passed, the
prima facie presumption is that the regulation is reasonable and proper, and in, order to warrant the court in
coming to a definite conclusion there must be evidence
introduced showing that in the particular case the discretion granted to the legislative body has been abused and
the rights of the individuals taken from them. Cooley,
Const. L. 542; Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S.
635; SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Fertilizing Co.
v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659; Phelan v. Virginia, 8 How.
163; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814; Patterson v.
Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 31.
The organic provision securing private rights does not
preclude reasonable regulation of the use of private property to preserve the highways and to preserve the public
safety and welfare, even if such regulation renders less
valuable or curtails the use of the property already acquired, the public safety and necessity being superior to
private property rights. Bonsteel v. Allen, 83 Fla. 214;
Pittsburgh & R. Co. v. Hartford, 170 Ind. 674; Chicago

MORRIS v. DUBY.
135

Opinion of the Court. "

& Alton R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67; Fertilizing
Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659. The order of the highway commission. is not a regulation of interstate commerce, but a regulation of the highways under the police
power. Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307, distinguished.
Congress having made no regulation in regard to the
use of the highways, the power is vested in the legislature
of the State, being a local and concurrent power. Welton
v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Henderson v. Mayor, 92 Ind.
259; Mobile v. Kimball, 102 Ind. 691; Escanaba Co. v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 678.
MR. CHMF JusTICE TAF--r

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The plaintiffs below, the appellants here, owned and
operated for hire, under proper license, motor trucks on
the Columbia River Highway in Oregon, from the east
boundary of Multnomah County to the west limits of
the city of Hood River, a distance of 22.11 miles. This
Highway extends from Portland to The Dalles, Oregon,
and is a rural post road. The plaintiffs have complied
with all the state rules and regulations respecting the
operation of motor trucks upon the Highway, and under
previous regulations carried a combined maximum load
of not exceeding 22,000 pounds. The Highway Commission, under a law of Oregon, has reduced the maximum fo
16,500 pounds, by an order in which the Commission
recites that the road is being damaged by heavier loads.
The plaintiffs filed this bill to enjoin the enforcement of
the order, on the ground that it invades their federal
constitutional rights.
The case was heard under § 266 of the Judicial Code,
as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43
Stat. 926, before a court of three judges, on an order to
show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue
restraining the Commission from enforcing the order. A

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
'Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

motion to dismiss was interposed to the complaint by
the defendant and submitted at the same time. The
District Court denied the application fer a preliminary
injunction, and granted the motion to dismiss the plaintiff's amended bill, on the ground that it did not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or to entitle
the plaintiffs to the relief demanded. "As the plaintiffs
refused to plead further, the cause was dismissed, and the
case comes here directly from the District Court by virtue
of paragraph 3 of § 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended
by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936.
The Secretary of Agriculture, by virtue of three Acts of
Congress, one of July 11, 1916, c. 241, 39 Stat. 355, an
amendment thereto of February 28, 1919, c. 69, 40 Stat.
1189, 1200, and the Federal Highway Act of November 9,
1921, c. 119, 42 Stat. 212, is authorized to coperate with
the States, through their respective highway departments,
in the construction of rural post roads. These require
that no money appropriated under their provisions shall
be expended in any State until it shall by its legislature
have assented to the provisions of the Acts. They provide that the Secretary of Agriculture and the state highway department of each State shall agree upon the roads
to be constructed therein and the character and method
of their construction. The construction work in each
State is to be done in accordance with its laws, and under
the supervision of the state highway department, subject
to the inspection and approval of the Secretary and in
accord with his rules and regulations made pursuant to
the federal acts. The States are required to maintain the
roads so constructed according to their laws. In case of
failure of a State to maintain any highway within its
boundaries after construction or reconstruction, the Secretary is. authorized to proceed on notice to have the highway placed in proper condition of maintenance, at the
charge and cost of the federal funds allotted to the State,

MORRIS v. DUBY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

and henceforth to refuse any further project in such State
until the State shall reimburse the Government for such
maintenance and shall pay into the Federal Highway
Fund for reapportionment among all the States the sum
thus expended.
By § 5, c. 237, of the General Laws of Oregon for 1917,
the Oregon Highway Law was passed. That creates a
highway commission with authority to carry out the provisions of the Act and to exercise general supervision
over all matters pertaining to the construction of state
highways and to determine the general policy of the highway department. By § 5, the Oregon Legislature assents
to the provisions of the Act of Congress of 1916, furnishing aid in the construction of rural post roads, and the
Department is authorized to enter into all contracts and
agreements with the National Government relating to the
survey, construction, improvement and maintenance of
the roads under the Act of Congress, and to submit any
scheme of construction as may be required by the Secretary of Agriculture, and to do all things necessary to
carry out the coSperation contemplated by the Act. The
good faith of the State is pledged to make the available
funds sufficient to equal the funds apportioned to the
State by the Government, and to maintain the roads constructed or improved with the aid of funds so appropriated, and to make adequate provision for carrying out
such maintenance. By the General Laws of Oregon, 1917,
§ 28, c. 194, p. 256, 268, in force when the first federal
act was passed, it was provided that no motor truck of
over five tons capacity should be driven or operated on
any road or highway of the State except with the consent
and upon a permit issued by the county court of the
county wherein such truck was sought to be driven or
operated; and this was the provision of law in force when
the law was passed accepting the federal acts for Oregon.
By the General Laws of Oregon of 1921, c. 371, § 35,

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

it was provided that the Highway Commission and the
county court might grant special permits to permit any
vehicle having with its load a combined weight in excess
of 22,000 pounds, to move on the highways, the permission to be written and to include such terms, rules and
stipulations as the commission or court might deem
proper. By § 36 of the same act, whenever in the judgment of the State Highway Commission or any county
court or board of county commissioners of any county
it would be for the best interests of the State or county
and for the protection from undue damage of any highway or highways or any sections thereof, to reduce the
maximum weights and speeds in the Act provided, for
vehicles moving over or upon the highways of the State,
and to fix the reduced weights and speeds and prohibit
the use of such highways for any other weights, authority
is given such commission or board to do so and to post a
notice of the limitation.
The order complained of, set forth as an exhibit to the
amended bill of complaint, recites that the Commission,
as a result of due investigation, finds that the road is
being damaged and injured on account of the kind and
character of traffic now being hauled over it, and that the
loads of maximum weight moved at the maximum speed
are breaking up, damaging and deteriorating the road, and
that it will therefore be for the best interests of the state
highway that the maximum weight be reduced from
20,000 to 16,500, and that changes be made with respect
to tires and their width.
The amended bill gives a history of the highway and
its continued use for a weight of 22,000 pounds for four
years, which has been availed of by the appellants as
common carriers and as members of an Auto Freight
Transportation Association of Oregon and Washington,
with costly terminals in Portland established by requirement of that city; it alleges that the twenty-two miles

MORRIS v. DUBY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

of the Columbia River Highway here involved is a part
of the interstate highway from Astoria, Oregon, into the
State of Washington, and all subject to the Federal Highway Acts, and that this order will interfere with interstate
commerce thereon. The amended bill denies the damage
to the road as found by the Highway Commission, and
says that the reduction of the limit will be unreasonable,
arbitrary and discriminatory. It avers that the plaintiffs
have been engaged in active competition with steam railroads paralleling the Columbia River Highway and charging rates of traffic which, unless the appellants can use
trucks combined with loads of 22,000 pounds, will prevent
their doing business except at a loss. It alleges that the
acts of Congress and of Oregon constitute a contract by
which the permission for the use of a truck of five tons
capacity without regard to weight of the truck itself, is a
term which can not be departed from by the State Highway Commission, and constitutes a protection to the plaintiffs of which they may avail themselves in this action.
An examination of the acts of Congress discloses no
provision, express or implied, by which there is withheld
from the State its ordinary police power to conserve the
highways in the interest of the public and to prescribe
such reasonable regulations for their use as may be wise
to prevent injury and damage to them. In the absence
of national legislation especially covering the subject of
interstate commerce, the State may rightly prescribe uniform regulations adapted to promote safety upon its highways and the conservation of their use, applicable alike
to vehicles moving in interstate commerce and those of its
own citizens. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 622,
et seq.; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167. Of
course the State may not discriminate against interstate
commerce. Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307. But there
is no sufficient averment of such discrimination in the
bill. In the Kuykendall case this Court said, p. 315:

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

"With the increase in number and size of the vehicles
used upon a highway, both the danger and the wear and
tear grow. To exclude unnecessary vehicles-particularly the large ones commonly used by carriers for hirepromotes both safety and economy. State regulation of
that character is valid even as applied to interstate commerce, in the absence of legislation by Congress which
deals specifically with the subject. Vandalia R. R. Co. v.
Public Service Commission, 242 U. S. 255; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Flour Mills Co., 211 U. S. 612.
Neither the recent federal highway acts, nor the earlier
post road acts, Rev. Stat., § 3964; Act of March 1st, 1884,
c. 9, 23 Stat. 3, do that."
The mere fact that a truck company may not make
a profit unless it can use a truck with load weighing
22,000 or more pounds does not show that a regulation
forbidding it is either discriminatory or unreasonable.
That it prevents competition with freight traffic on parallel steam railroads may possibly be a circumstance to
be considered in determining the reasonableness of such
a limitation, though that is doubtful, but it is necessarily
outweighed when it appears by decision of competent
authority that such weight is injurious to the highway for
the use of the general public and unduly increases the cost
of maintenance and repair. In the absence of any averments of specific facts to show fraud or abuse of discretion, we must accept the judgment of the Highway
Commission upon this question, which is committed to
their decision, as against merely general averments denying their official finding.
Nor is there anything either in the federal or state
legislation to support the argument that the agreement
between the national and state governments requires that
the weight of truck and load which was permitted by the
State when the agreement was made binds the State
contractually to continue such permission. Conserving

