WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
Syllabus.

651

ment Co. v. LaCrosse Co., 54 Wis. 659; United States
v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53.
We are not concerned with the correctness of the rule
adopted by the state court, its conformity to authority,
or its consistency with related legal doctrine. Sauer v.
New York, supra. It is for the state court in cases such
as this to define rights in land located within the state,
and the Fourteenth Amendment, in the absence of an
attempt to forestall our review of the constitutional question, affords no protection to supposed rights of property
which the state courts determine to be non-existent.
We accept as conclusive the state court's view of the
nature of the rights of riparian owners. We therefore
find in the refusal of the commission to grant the permit
no denial of the property rights of plaintiffs and hence no
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Compliance
with § 31.09 is the price which plaintiffs must pay to secure the right to maintain their dam. Cf. Booth Fisheries v. Industrial Commission, 271 U. S. 208.
Judgment affirmed.

WEEDIN, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION, v.
CHIN BOW.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 237. Argued March 16, 1927.-Decided June 6, 1927.
1. Under Rev. Stats. § 1993, which provides: "All children heretofore
born or hereafter born out of the limits and jurisdiction of the
United States, whose fathers were or may be at the time of their
birth citizens thereof, are declared to be citizens of the United
States; but the rights of citizenship shall not descend to children
whose fathers never resided in the United States," citizenship
attaches only where the father has resided in the United States

before the birth of the child. Pp. 660, 666, 675.
55514-28----42

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

2. The section is so legislatively constructed by the Act of March 2,
1907, c. 2534, § 6. P. 667.
7. F. (2d) 369, reversed.

CERTIORAR (269 U. S. 550) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed an order of the District
Court in habeas corpus discharging a Chinese boy, who
had applied for admission lo the United States and was
held for deportation by the immigration authorities.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
Frank M. Parrish, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Clement L.
Bouvg was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CiEF JUsTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of certiorari to' review a judgment of the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit affirming an order of the District Court for the
Western District of Washington allowing a writ of habeas
corpus for Chin Bow, a Chinese boy ten years of age, and
granting him a discharge. The petition for certiorari was
filed October 29, 1925, and granted December 7, 1925, 269
U. S. 550, under § 240 (a) of the Judicial Code as
amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat.
936.
Chin Bow applied for admission to the United States
at Seattle. The board of special inquiry of the Immigration Bureau at that place denied him admission on the
ground that, though his father is a citizen, he is not a citizen, because at the time of his birth in China his father
had never resided in the United States. Chin Bow was
born March 29, 1914, in China. His father, Chin Dun,

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

was also born in China, on March 8, 1894, and had never
been in this country until July 18, 1922. Chin Dun was
the son of Chin Tong, the respondent's grandfather.
Chin Tong is forty-nine years old and was born in the
United States.
The Secretary of Labor affirmed the decision of the
Board of Inquiry, and the deportation of the respondent
was ordered. He secured a writ of habeas corpus from the
District Court. Upon a hearing, an order discharging
him was entered without an opinion. On appeal by the
United States, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment of the District Court, 7 F. (2d) 369, holding
him to be a citizen under the provisions of § 1993 of the
Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"All children heretofore born or hereafter born out of
the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, whose
fathers were or may be at the time of their birth citizens
thereof, are declared to be citizens of the United States;
but the rights of citizenship shall not descend to children
whose fathers never resided in the United States."
The rights of Chin Bow are determined by the construction of this section. The Secretary of Labor, April
27, 1916, asked the opinion of Attorney General Gregory
whether a rule of the Chinese regulations of his Department, which denied citizenship to foreign-born children of
American Chinese, was a valid one. He advised that it was
not, because § 1993 applied to all children and therefore
included Chinese children as well. The second question
was whether foreign-born children of American-born
Chinese fathers were entitled to enter the United States
as citizens thereof, when they had continued to reside
for some time in China after reaching their majorities,
without any affirmative action on their part indicating
an intention to remain citizens of the United States; and
the Attorney General advised that they were, in spite of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

these circumstances, entitled to enter the United States
as citizens thereof, 30 Op. A. G. 529.
The United States contends that the proviso of § 1993
"but the rights of citizenship shall not descend to children whose fatheys never resided in the United States"
must be construed to mean that only the children whose
fathers have resided in the United States before their
birth become citizens under the section. It is claimed
for the respondent that the residence of the father in the
United States at any time before his death entitles his
son, whenever born, to citizenship. These conflicting
claims make the issue to be decided.
The very learned and useful opinion of Mr. Justice
Gray, speaking for the Court in United States v. Wong
Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, establishes that, at common law
in England and the United States, the rule with respect
to nationality was that of the jus soli,--that birth within
the limits of the jurisdiction of the Crown, and of the
United States, as the successor of the Crown, fixed nationality, and that there could be no change in this rule of
law except by statute; that by the statute of 7 Anne,
(1708) c. 5, § 3, extended by the statute of 4 George II,
(1731) c. 21, all children born out of the ligeance of the
Crown of England whose fathers were or should be natural-born subjects of the Crown of England, or of Great
Britain, at the time of the birth of such children respectively, were deemed natural-born subjects of that kingdom
to all intents and purposes whatsoever. That statute was
extended by the statute of 13 George III, (1773) c. 21, to
foreign-born grandchildren of natural-born subjects but
not to the issue of such grandchildren (169 U. S. 671).
De Geer v. Stone, 22 Ch. D. 243, 252; Dicey, Conflict of
Laws, 178, 781. The latter author says (p. 782) that
British nationality did not pass by descent or inheritance
beyond the second generation. These statutes applied to
the colonies before the War of Independence.

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

The Act of March 26, 1790, entitled "An Act to establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization," 1 Stat. 103,
c. 3, came under discussion in February, 1790, in the
House, but the discussion was chiefly directed to naturalization and not to the status of children of American citizens born abroad. Annals of First Congress, 1109, 1110,

et seq. The only reference is made by Mr. Burke (p.
1121), in which he says:
"The case of the children of American parents born

abroad ought to be provided for, as was done in the case
of English parents in the 12th year of William III.
There are several other cases that ought to be likewise
attended to."
Mr. Hartley said (p. 1125) that he had another clause
ready to present providing for the children of American
citizens born out of the United States. A select committee of ten was then appointed to which the bill was
recommitted and from which it was reported. But no
subsequent reference to the provision of the bill which
we are now considering appears. The bill as passed was
as follows:
"An Act to establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization.
"Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That any alien, being a free white person, who shall have resided within the limits and under
the jurisdiction of the United States for the term of two
years, may be admitted to become a citizen thereof, on
application to any common law court of record, in any
one of the states wherein he shall have resided for the
term of one year at least, and making proof to the satisfaction of such court, that he is a person of good character, and taking the oath or affirmation prescribed by
law, to support the constitution of the United States,
which oath or affirmation such court shall administer;

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

and the clerk of such court shall record such application,
and the proceedings thereon; and thereupon such person
shall be considered as a citizen of the United States. And
the children of such persons so naturalized, dwelling
within the United States, being under the age of twentyone years at the time of such naturalization, shall also
be considered as citizens of the United States. And the
children of citizens of the United States, that may be
born beyond sea, or out of the limits of the United States,
shall be considered as natural born citizens: Provided,
That the right of citizenship shall not descend to persons
whose fathers have never been resident in the United
States: Provided also, That no person heretofore proscribed by any state, shall be admitted a citizen as aforesaid, except by an act of the legislature of the state in
which such person was proscribed."
This Act was repealed by the Act of January 29, 1795,
1 Stat. 414, § 4, but the third section of that act re~nacted the provisions of the Act of 1790 as to children of
citizens born beyond the sea, in equivalent terms. The
clauses were not repealed by the next Naturalization Act
of June 18, 1798, 1 Stat. 566, but continued in force until
the 14th of April, 1802, when an act of Congress of that
date, 2 Stat. 153, repealed all preceding acts respecting
naturalization. After its provision as to naturalization,
it contained in its fourth section the following:
"That the children of persons duly naturalized under
any of the laws of the United States, or who, previous to
the passing of any law on that subject, by the government of the United States, may have become citizens of.
any one of the said states, under the laws thereof, being
under the age of twenty-one years, at the time of their
parents being so naturalized or admitted to the rights of
citizenship, shall, if dwelling in the United States, be considered as citizens of the United States, and the children
of persons who now are, or have been citizens of the

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court,

United States, shall, though born out of the limits and
jurisdiction of the United States, be considered as citizens of the United States: Provided, that the right of
citizenship shall not descend to persons whose fathers
have never resided within the United States."
No change was made in the law until 1855. Mr. Horace Binney had written an article, which he published
December 1, 1853, for the satisfaction of fellow citizens
and friends, whose children were born abroad during occasional visits by their parents to Europe. 169 U. S.
665, 2 Amer. Law Reg. 193. He began the article as
follows:
"It does not, probably, occur to the American families
who are visiting Europe in great numbers, and remaining
there, frequently, for a year or more, that all their children
born in a foreign country are aliens, and when they return
home, will return under all the disabilities of aliens. Yet
this is indisputably the case; for it is not worth while to
consider the only exception to this rule that exists under
the laws of the United States, viz., the case of a child so
born, whose parents were citizens of the United States,
on or before the 14th of April, 1802.
"It has been thought expedient, therefore, to call the attention of the public to this state of the laws of the United
States, that if there are not some better political reasons
for permitting the law so to remain, than the writer is
able to imagine, the subject may be noticed in Congress,
and a remedy provided."
Mr. Binney demonstrates that, under the law then existing, the children of citizens of the United States born
abroad, and whose parents were not citizens of the United
States on or before the 14th of April, 1802, were aliens,
because the Act of 1802 only applied to such parents, and
because, under the common law which applied in this
country, the children of citizens born abroad were not
citizens but were aliens. Mr. Binney was not interested

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

in the citizenship of the second generation of children of
citizens of the United States born abroad, and nothing
in this article was directed to the question of the meaning
of the words contained in the Act of 1802, "Provided
that the right of citizenship shall not descend to persons
whose fathers have never resided within the United
States."
The Act of February 10, 1855 (10 Stat. 604), passed
presumably because of Mr. Binney's suggestion, was entitled "An Act to secure the right of citizenship to children
of citizens of the United States born out of the limits
thereof," and read as follows:
"That persons heretofore born, or hereafter to be born,
out of the limits and jurisdiction of the United States,
whose fathers were or shall be at the time of their birth
citizens of the United-States, shall be deemed and considered and are hereby declared to be citizens of the
United States: Provided however, That the rights of citizenship shall not descend to persons whose fathers never
resided in the United States.
"SEC. 2. That any woman who might lawfully be naturalized under the existing laws, married, or who shall
be married to a citizen of the United States, shall be
deemed and taken to be a citizen."
The part of the Act of 1855 we are interested in was
embodied in the Revised Statutes as § 1993.
It is very clear that the proviso in § 1993 has the same
meaning as that which Congress intended to give it in
the Act of 1790, except that it was then retrospective, as
it was in the Act of 1802, while in the Act of 1855 it was
intended to be made prospective as well as retrospective.
What was the source of the peculiar words of the proviso
there seems to be no way of finding out, as the report
of the discussion of the subject is not contained in any
publication brought to our attention. It is evident, how-

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

ever, from the discussion in the First Congress, already
referred to, that there was a strong feeling in favor of the
encouragement of naturalization. There were some Congressmtn, although they did not prevail, who were in
favor of naturalization by the mere application and taking
of the oath. The time required for residence to obtain
naturalization was finally limited to two years. In the
Act of 1795 this was increased to five years, with three
years for declaration of intention. Congress must have
thought that the questions of naturalization and of the
conferring of citizenship on sons of American citizens born
abroad were related.
Congress had before it the Act of George III of 1773,
which conferred British nationality not only on the
children but also on the grandchildren of British-born
citizens who were born abroad. Congress was not willing
to make so liberal a provision. It was natural that it
should wish to restrict the English provision because at the
time that this phrase was adopted there were doubtless
many foreign-born children of persons who were citizens
of the seceding colonies with respect to whose fathers
there was a natural doubt whether they intended to claim
or enjoy American citizenship or indeed were entitled to
it. The last provision of the Act of 1790 manifested
this disposition to exclude from the operation of the Act
those who were citizens or subjects in the States during
the Revolution and had been proscribed by their legislatures. It is not too much to say, therefore, that Congress at that time attached more importance to actual
residence in the United States as indicating a basis for
citizenship than it did to descent from those who had been
born citizens of the colonies or of the states before the
Constitution. As said by Mr. Fish, when Secretary of
State, to Minister Washburn, June 28, 1873, in speaking
of this very proviso, "the heritable blood of citizenship

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

was thus associated unmistakeably with residence within
the country which was thus recognized as essential to
full citizenship." Foreign Relations of the United States,
Pt. 1, 1873, p. 259. It is in such an atmosphere that we
are to interpret the meaning of this peculiarly worded
proviso.
Only two constructions seem to us possible, and we
must adopt one or the other. The one is that the descent of citizenship shall be regarded as taking place at
the birth of the person to whom it is to be transmitted,
and that the words "have never been resident in the
United States" refer in point of time to the birth of the
person to whom the citizenship is to descend. This is
the adoption of the rule of jus sanguinis in respect of citizenship, and that emphasizes the fact and time of birth
as the basis of it. We think the words "the right of citizenship shall not descend to persons whose fathers have
never been resident in the United States" are equivalent
to saying that fathers may not have the power of transmitting by descent the right of citizenship until they shall
become residents in the United States. The other view
is that the words "have never been resident in the United
States" have reference to the whole life of the father
until his death, and therefore that grandchildren of
native-born citizens, even after they, having been born
abroad, have lived abroad to middle age and without residing at all in the United States, will become citizens, if
their fathers, born abroad and living until old age abroad,
shall adopt a residence in the United States just before
death. We are thus to have two generations of citizens
who have been born abroad, lived abroad, the first coming to old age and the second to maturity and bringing
up of a family, without any relation to the United States
at all until the father shall, in his last days, adopt a new
residence. We do not think that such a construction accords with the probable attitude of Congress at the time
of the adoption of this proviso into the statute. Its con-

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

struction extends citizenship to a generation whose birth,
minority and majority, whose education, and whose family life, have all been out of the United States and naturally within the civilization and environment of an alien
country. The beneficiaries would have evaded the duties
and responsibilities of American citizenship. They might
be persons likely to become public charges or afflicted
with disease, yet they would be entitled to enter as citizens of the United States. Van Dyne, Citizenship of
the United States, p. 34.
As between the two interpretations, we feel confident
that the first one is more in accord with the views of the
First Congress. We think that the proviso has been so
construed by a subsequent Act of Congress of March 2,
1907, c. 2534, § 6, 34 Stat. 1229, which provides:
"That all children born outside the limits of the United
States who are citizens thereof in accordance with the
provisions of section nineteen hundred and ninetythree of the Revised Statutes of the United States
and who continue to reside outside the United States
shall, in order to receive the protection of this Government, be required upon reaching the age of eighteen years
to record at an American consulate their intention to become residents and remain citizens of the United States
and shall be further required to take the oath of allegiance to the United States upon attaining their majority."
Now, if this Congress had construed § 1993 to permit
the residence prescribed to occur after the birth of such
children, we think that it would have employed appropriate words to express such meaning, as for example "All
children born who are or may become citizens." The
present tense is used, however, indicating that citizenship
is determined at the time of birth. Moreover, such foreign-born citizens are required, upon reaching the age of
eighteen years, to record their intention to become residents and remain citizens of the United States, and take

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the oath of allegiance to the United States upon attaining their majority. If the residence prescribed for the
parent may occur after the birth of the children, the
father may remain abroad and not reside in the United
States until long after such children attain their majority. Thus they could not register or take the oath of
allegiance, because the rights of citizenship could not descend to them until their fathers had resided in the
United States. This class of foreign-born children of
American citizens could not, then, possibly comply with
the provisions of the Act of 1907. Nor could such children "remain citizens," since they are expressly denied
the rights of citizenship. We may treat the Act of 1907
as being in pari materia with the original act, and as a
legislative declaration of what Congress in 1907 thought
was its meaning in 1790. United States v. Freeman, 3
How. 556, 564, et seq.; Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682,
688.
Counsel for the respondent insist that the Act of 1907
is not an act that reflects on the construction to be placed
on § 1993; that there is a distinction between citizenship
and the enjoyment of it in this country, on the one hand,
and the rules that should limit the protection of it abroad
by our Government on the other. This may well be conceded. It is illustrated in the opinion of Attorney General Hoar, 13 Op. A. G. 90, in which he advised that even
if applicants were citizens they were not entitled to the
protection of passports under the circumstances of that
case. But we do not think that this distinction detracts
from the argumentative weight of the Act of 1907 as a
Congressional interpretation of the proviso of 1855, 1802
and 1790.
In answer to the reasons which influence us to the conclusion already indicated, counsel for the respondent say,
first, that the hypothesis that the foreign-born fathers
and sons may all live abroad from birth to middle age and

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

bring up families without any association with the United
States, and that the sons may then become citizens by
the ultimate residence of their fathers in the United
States, is not a possible one, because such children must
have signified their intention to become citizens when

they reached eighteen years of age or at majority at any
rate. But these provisions with respect to election of citizenship by those coming to majority were not in the
statute when the proviso was enacted, and we must construe it as of 1790 with reference to the views that Congress
may be thought to have had at that time.
Then, it is urged that the State Department has held
that § 1993 refers only to children and not to adults.
This would be a narrow construction of the proviso as
it was intended to operate in 1790 when the act was
passed, and although this was suggested as a possible view
by Secretary of State Bayard, it would limit too much the
meaning of the word "children" at a time when no provision had been made by law for election of citizenship
by those coming of age. Nor does it seem to be in accord with Attorney General Gregory's opinion already
referred to. 30 Op. A. G. 529.
It is said that it would be illogical and unnatural to
provide that the father, having begotten children abroad
before he lived in the United States at all, and then having gone to the United States and resided there and returned and had more children abroad, should have a
family part aliens and part citizens. As this is entirely
within the choice of the father, there would seem to be
no reason why such a situation should be anomalous. As
the father may exercise his option in accordance with the
law, so citizenship will follow that option.
Counsel for the respondent, in their learned and thorough brief, have sought to sustain their conclusion in
'favor of the latitudinarian view of the proviso by many
references, all of which we have examined. They point

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

to the language of Mr. Justice Gray in delivering the
majority opinion in United States v. Wong Kim Ark,
169 U. S. 649. The majority in that case, as already said,
held that the fundamental principle of the common law
with regard to nationality was birth within the allegiance
of the Government and that one born in the United
States, although of a race and of a parentage denied
naturalization under the law, was nevertheless under the
language of the Fourteenth Amendment a citizen of the
United States by virtue of the jus soli embodied in the
Amendment. The attitude of Chief Justice Fuller and
Mr. Justice Harlan was, that at common law the children
of our citizens born abroad were always natural-born citizens from the standpoint of this Government, and that to
that extent the jus sanguinisobtained here; that the Fourteenth Amendment did not exclude from citizenship by
birth children born in the United States of parents permanently located here who might themselves become citizens; nor on the other hand did it arbitrarily make citizens
of children born in the United States of adults who according to the will of their native government and of this
Government are and must remain aliens. Section 1993 is
referred to both in the majority opinion and in the minority opinion. Speaking of the Act of 1855, the majority
opinion says (p. 674):
"It thus clearly appears that, during the half century
intervening between 1802 and 1855, there was no legislation whatever for the citizenship of children born
abroad, during that period, of American parents who had
not become citizens of the United States before the act of
1802; and that the act of 1855, like every other act of
Congress upon the subject, has, by express proviso, restricted the right of citizenship, thereby conferred upon
foreign-born children of American citizens, to those children themselves, unless they became residents of the
United States. Here is nothing to countenance the the-

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

ory that a general rule of citizenship by blood or descent
has displaced in this country the' fundamental rule of
citizenship by birth within its sovereignty."
The minority opinion said (p. 714): CSection 1993 of the Revised Statutes provides that
children so born are declared to be citizens of the United

States; but the rights of citizenship shall not descend
to children whose fathers never resided in the United
States.' Thus a limitation is prescribed on the passage

of citizenship by descent beyond the second generation
if then surrendered by permanent non-residence, and this
limitation was contained in all the acts from 1790 down."
It is very clear that the exact meaning of the proviso
upon the point here at issue was not before the Court.
The section itself, and the policy of the United States- in
the sections that preceded it, were important in the discussion only in showing how restricted or otherwise was the
application of the jus sanguinisin our law. There is nothing in the opinion of the Court that contains an intimation as to what period is covered by the expression "never
resided in the United States." We can not regard such
a doubtful expression as that of Chief Justice Fuller in
his dissent as authoritative in respect to the issue here.
Reference is then made to the very admirable opinion
presented by Secretary Fish to President Grant, on July
27, 1868, of the legislation afterwards embodied in the
Revised Statutes, §§ 1999, 2000 and 2001, in reference to
the right of expatriation, prompted by the Fenian and
other international differences, and intended to apply especially to the expatriation of persons coming from European countries to the United States and seeking and receiving naturalization in the United States. U. S. Foreign Relations, 1873, Pt. II, pp. 1191, 1192. President
Grant solicited opinions from all of his Cabinet officers.
That of Secretary Fish is relied on in this discussion. We
do not find it specifically directed to the issue here. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 UJ. S.

is rather occupied in a consideration of the point which
was then very much mooted, as to what constituted expatriation and what rules should be adopted in determining whether citizens or subjects of other countries
coming to the United States were expatriated, and
whether, after having been admitted to citizenship, they
lost their rights of citizenship by reason of a return to
the country of their birth and a residence there. The
only important reference to the proviso of § 1993 is the
suggestion by Secretary Fish that the proviso was a recognition by Congress of the right of foreign countries
to fix for themselves what constituted allegiance to their
country of persons living in their country, without
regard to the laws of this country extending citizenship
of this country to such persons within their allegiance. Nor do we find anything more definite upon
the meaning of the proviso in § 1993 in the letter, already cited, of Secretary Fish to Mr. Washburn under
date of June 28, 1873. Foreign Relations of the United
States, 1873, Pt. I, p. 256. Reference is also made to
the opinion of Attorney General Hoar, already cited,
which was rendered to Secretary Fish in a case that did
not present this question at all. 13 Op. A. G. 90. The
Secretary asked the Attorney General whether four persons residing in the Island of Curacao, for whom application was made for passports, were citizens of the United
States and entitled as such to have passports issued to
them. They were over twenty-one years of age, and were
born in the islands of Curacao. Four of them were children of native citizens of the United States domiciled at
Curacao who had not resided in the United States since
1841 (the opinion was given in 1869), and it did not appear affirmatively that any of the applicants had resided
or intended to reside in the United States, or that more
than one of them had ever been in the country. The At-

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

torney General expressed the opinion that, if the fathers
of the applicants at the time of their birth were citizens
of the United States and had "at some time" resided
within the United States, the applicants were citizens of
the United States under the provisions of the statute and
entitled to the privileges of citizenship. As their fathers
were native-born citizens of the United States, the applicants were probably citizens under § 1993, whether their
fathers at any time resided in the United States or not
after the time of their birth. The point in the opinion by
the Attorney General relied on by respondent's counsel
is the intimation that these fathers should have " at some
time" resided in the United States, without restricting
that residence to the time before their birth. The conclusion was that, as these applicants had never been in
the United States, there was no obligation to give them
passports, even though they were citizens of the United
States. We can hardly regard that as a decision upon the
point we are considering.
In a work by Mr. Borchard, formerly Assistant Counselor of the State Department, we find this:
"To confer citizenship upon a child born abroad, the
father must have resided in the United States. This
limitation upon the right of transmitting citizenship indefinitely was intended to prevent the residence abroad
of successive generations of persons claiming the privileges of American citizenship while evading its duties.
It seems not to have been judicially determined whether
the residence of the father in the United States must
necessarily have preceded the birth of the child, but by
the fact that the statute provides that citizenship shall not
'descend,' it is believed that the residence prescribed
must have preceded the birth of the child, and such has
been the construction of the Department." Diplomatic
Protection of Citizens Abroad, (p. 609).
55514°-28----43

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

In his notes under this passage Mr. Borchard correctly
points out that while the case of State v. Adams, 45 Iowa
99, cited for the respondent herein, may have presented
facts involving the point we are considering, it was not
considered or discussed by the Court.
Mr. Borchard also refers to special consular instructions of the State Department, No. 340, July 27, 1914,
entitled "Citizenship of children born of American
fathers who have never resided in the United States."
These were instructions issued by Mr. Bryan, when Secretary of State, ruling on the question whether residence
by the father in Jerusalem, where the United States exercised by treaty extraterritorial powers, was residence
within the United States satisfying the requirement of
§ 1993, and it was held not to be so, reversing former
rulings. In these instructions Mr. Bryan indicated his
view that foreign-born persons claiming citizenship under
§ 1993 must fail if their fathers, citizens of the United
States, had never resided in the United States when such
persons were born, although this was not necessary to
the decision he was making.
Mr. Bryan's instructions were based on an opinion of
Mr. Cone Johnson, Solicitor of the State Department,
printed at pages 41 and 42 of a compilation concerning
citizenship issued by the Department in 1925, in which
Mr. Johnson suggested that § 1993 might be construed to
mean "all children heretofore or hereafter born out of
the limits or jurisdiction of the United States whose
fathers, having resided in the United States were or may
be at the time of their birth citizens thereof, are declared
to be citizens of the United States."
Mr. Borchard's statement in his text that the construction of the Department has since been that the
residence of the father must have preceded the birth of
the child whose American citizenship is claimed, rests on
his personal experience and knowledge as an official of
the Department and not on any subsequent printed pub-

WEEDIN v. CHIN BOW.
657

Opinion of the Court.

lication of the Department, to which we have been
referred.
It would seem, then, that the question before us is one
that has really not been authoritatively decided, except
by two Circuit Courts of Appeals, that of the Ninth
Circuit, which is here under review, and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit (Johnson v.
Sullivan, 8 F. (2d) 988) which adopted the view of the
Ninth Circuit Court and followed it.
The opinion in the Ninth Circuit says (p. 369):
"The statute refers to the descent of the rights of
citizenship. The term 'descend' has a well-defined
meaning in law. As defined by Webster, it means: 'To
pass down, as from generation to generation, or from ancestor to heir.' If the term' descend' is given that meaning in this connection, the status of the appellee would
not become definitely fixed until his father became a
resident of the United States or died without becoming
such. In the former event he would become vested with
all the rights of citizenship as soon as his father became
a resident, while in the latter event his claim to citizenship would be forever lost."
The expression "the rights of citizenship shall descend" can not refer to the time of the death of the
father, because that is hardly the time when they do
descend. The phrase is borrowed from the law of property. The descent of property comes only after the death
of the ancestor. The transmission of right of citizenship
is not at the death of the ancestor but at the birth of the
child, and it seems to us more natural to infer that the conditions of the descent contained in the limiting proviso, so
far as the father is concerned, must be perfected and have
been performed at that time.
This leads to a reversal of the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and a remanding of the respondent.
Reversed.

