HODGSON v. FEDERAL OIL CO.

15

Statement of the Case.

H{ODGSON v. FEDERAL OIL AND DEVELOPMENT
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTHE CIRCUIT.

No. 166.

Argued February 24, 25, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.

1. A motion in this Court to amend a bill on appeal, overruled, when
it did not appear that the facts sought to be added were newly
discovered, and in the absence of any affidavit concerning them.
P. 17.
2. The provision of the Oil Land Leasing Act of February 25, 1920,
that "all leases hereunder shall inure to the benefit of the claimant
and all persons claiming through or under him" (ยง 18), does not
apply to one claiming an interest, not through or under the lessee
but through the heirs of one of the original locators of the relinquished placer claim. P. 18.
3. Where the lease was secured by one who, having become part
owner of a placer claim located by eight persons, had held exclusive adverse possession of it, claiming the whole, for many years
before relinquishing it under the above Act and obtaining the
lease, the heirs of one of the original locators, who were ignorant
of having rights under the Act, and did not comply with its terms
during 'the six months allowed, have no interest under the lease
upon the theory that the lessee, as their co-tenant, was their
fiduciary. P. 18.
4. If the interests of co-tenants accrue at different times, under
different instruments, and neither has superior means of information respecting the state of the title, then either, unless he employ
his co-tenancy to secure an advantage, may acquire and assert a
superior outstanding title, where there is no joint possession. P. 19.
5. Uninterrupted possession of a mining claim by part of the owners
for fifteen years, under assertion of right based on recorded conveyances purporting to pass to them the whole claim, with no
recognition of others as co-owners, is exclusive and hostile, and
not in any relationship of trust and confidence. P. 20.
5 F. (2d) 442, affirmed.
APEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

a bill seeking to hold the two appellee oil companies as
trustees for the appellant to the extent of a one-eighth
interest in a lease of oil land.
Mr. James M. Hodgson, pro se, with whom Mr. F. E.
Pendell was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Harold D. Roberts, with whom Messrs. Tyson S.
Dines, Peter H. Holme, and J. Churchill Owen were on
the brief, for appellees.
Mr. JUSTICE McRYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant seeks to establish his right to a one-eighth
interest in an oil and gas lease upon one hundred and sixty
acres of land in Wyoming granted August 21, 1920, by the
United States to appellee Federal Oil and Development
Company under ยง 18, Act of Congress approved February
25, 1920, c. 85, 41 Stat. 437, 443. The lease was afterwards assigned to The Mountain and Gulf Oil Company
upon conditions not here important.
The bill, filed May 26, 1922, proceeds upon the theoryThat January 11, 1887, George McManus and seven associates located a placer mining claim-The O'Glase-and
thereafter perfected the same; McManus died in 1901, his
one-eighth interest descended to his heirs and has never
been forfeited, abandoned or lost; these heirs lived beyond
Wyoming and were unaware of their interest in the claim
for twenty years; the land is within the district withdrawn
from entry by Executive order of September 27, 1909;
the Federal Oil and Development Company, having become part owner of the claim, took possession and thereafter, asserting ownership to the whole, surrendered the
same and procured the existing lease in its own name under the Act of 1920. The company became a co-tenant
with the McManus heirs and, consequently, the lease ob-

HODGSON v. FEDERAL OIL CO.
15

Opinion of the Court.

tained by it inured to their benefit; appellant purchased
their interest February 11, 1922, and may now impress
a trust upon the lease.
The trial court held that no adequate ground for relief
was disclosed and dismissed the bill upon motion. This
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 5 Fed.
(2d) 442.
A motion to amend the bill, first made in this Court,
must be overruled. It does not appear that the alleged
facts have been recently discovered and there is no affidavit in respect of them.
The Act of February 25, 1920, provides"See. 18. That upon relinquishment to the United
States, filed in the General Land Office within six months
after the approval of this Act, of all right, title, and interest claimed and possessed prior to July 3, 1910, and continuously since by the claimant or his predecessor in interest under the pre-existing placer mining law to any oil
or gas bearing land . . . embraced in the Executive
order of withdrawal issued September 27, 1909, and not
within any naval petroleum reserve, and upon payment as
royalty to the United States of an amount equal to the
value at the time of production of one-eighth of all the
oil or gas already produced . . . the claimant, or his
successor, if in possession of such land, undisputed by any
other claimant prior to July 1, 1919, shall be entitled to a
lease thereon from the United States for a period of
twenty years, at a royalty of not less than 12 per centum
of all the oil or gas produced . .
"All such leases shall be made and the amount of royalty
to be paid for oil and gas produced, except oil or gas used
for production purposes on the claim, or unavoidably lost,
after the execution of such lease shall be fixed by the
Secretary of the Interior under appropriate rules and regulations . . . In case of conflicting claimants for
leases under this section, the Secretary of the Interior is
5.5514*o-28-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

authorized to grant leases to one or more of them as shall
be deemed just. All leases hereunder shall inure to the
benefit of the claimant and all persons claiming through or
under him by lease, contract, or otherwise, as their interests may appear
"Sec. 32. That the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to prescribe necessary and proper rules and regulations and to do any and all things necessary to carry out
and accomplish the purposes of this Act
"
The following is one of the regulations established by
the Secretary"241/2. All proper parties to a claim for relief under
section 18, 19, or 22 of the Act should join in the application, but, if for any sufficient reason that is impracticable,
any person claiming a fractional or undivided interest in
such claim may make application for a lease or permit,
stating the nature and extent of'his interest, and the reasons for nonjoinder of his co-owner or co-owners. In
cases where two or more applications are -made for the
same claim or part of a claim, leases or permits will be
granted to one or more of the claimants, as the law and
facts shall warrant and as shall be deemed just."
Appellant insists that he is entitled to relief under the
clause in the Act of 1920 which provides-"All leases
hereunder shall inure to the benefit of the claimant and all
persons claiming through or under him by lease, contract,
or otherwise, as their interests may appear." But, we
think, it is clear enough that he does not claim "through
or under" either appellee, within the meaning of the
'Act. Whatever rights he has, if any, come through or
under George McManus and his heirs.
He also maintains that out of the alleged co-tenancy
there arose a relation of trust and confidence between the
Oil and Development Company and the McManus heirs
and therefore it cannot deny that the lease was procured

HODGSON v. FEDERAL OIL CO.
15

Opinion of the Court.

for the benefit of them as well as for itself, according
to their respective interests.
If appellant's predecessors owned an interest in the
placer claim, certainly they never put themselves in position to receive a lease from the United States under the
Act of 1920. They made no effort to surrender their
rights or comply with the prescribed prerequisites during
the six months allowed. Prior to the granting of the
lease they had no knowledge of rights now asserted. The
Oil and Development Company did not obtain what
otherwise would have been granted to them; and the
principle under which the patentee was declared trustee
for another in such cases as Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall. 219,
and Svor v. Morris, 227 U. S. 524, does not apply.
Anicker v. Gunsburg, 246 U. S. 110, 117, holds: "In order
to maintain a suit of this sort the complainant must
establish not only that the action of the Secretary was
wrong in approving the other lease, but that the complainant was himself entitled to an approval of his lease,
and that it was refused to him because of an erroneous
ruling of law by the Secretary."
In order to support the view that in equity and good
conscience the Oil and Development Company acted for
the McManus heirs in securing the existing lease, it would
be necessary to allege definite facts (not mere conclusions)
sufficient to show some fiduciary relationship between
them. This has not been done, unless such a relationship
necessarily arose because of co-tenancy. The rule as
commonly stated forbids a co-tenant from acquiring and
asserting an adverse title against his companions because
of the mutual trust and confidence supposed to exist;
but the rule does not go beyond the reason which supports it. If the interests of the co-tenants accrue at
different times, under different instruments, and neither
has superior means of information respecting the state

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of the title, then either, unless he employs his co-tenancy
to secure an advantage, may acquire and assert a superior
outstanding title, especially where there is no joint possession. This exception to the general rule is recognized
in Turner v. Sawyer, 150 U. S. 578, 586; Elder v. McClaskey, 70 Fed. 529, 546; Freeman on Co-Tenancy
and Partition, ยง 155; Shelby v. Rhodes, 105 Miss. 255,
267; Sands v. Davis, 40 Mich. 14, 18; Joyce v. Dyer,
189 Mass. 64, 67; Steele v. Steele, 220 Ill. 318, 323. We
know of no opinion by the courts of Wyoming to the
contrary.
The bill shows that the Oil and Development Company
and its predecessors were in uninterrupted possession of
the mining claim from 1905 to August 21, 1920, when
it relinquished the same to the United States and applied
for the lease; that throughout this period they held under
assertion of right based on recorded conveyances purporting to pass the whole claim to them (which undoubtedly gave color of title) and did whatever was necessary to preserve it. There is no suggestion that any of
them acknowledged the title was other than what these
conveyances purported to pass or recognized the heirs
of McManus as co-owners. Such holding must be regarded as exclusive and hostile to all others and not in
any relationship of trust and confidence. It continued
for fifteen years, during which the McManus heirs asserted no conflicting right or objection. They do not
appear to have been infants or under disability. In no
admissible view of the leasing Act are they shown to have
been entitled to the lease or any interest therein.
We need not discuss laches as an equitable defense,
the effect of the ten-year limitation prescribed by the
Wyoming statute or other points relied on by the appellees. In the circumstances nothing short of distinct allegations of all the facts necessary to support appellant's

