OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The statement of the petition for certiorari that the
judgment and opinion below might seriously hinder future administration of the law was grave and sufficiently
probable to justify issuance of the writ.
Proper decision of the controversy depends upon a
question of fact. Did the American Tobacco Company
become party to the unlawful combination of tobacco
jobbers at Philadelphia to maintain prices? After considering much evidence the Commission gave affirmative
answer to that query; but the Circuit Court of Appeals
thought there was nothing to support their view. 9
Fed. (2d) 570.
It now appears to us that this matter of fact is of no
general importance. Accordingly, we adhere to the usual
rule of non-interference where conclusions of Circuit
Courts of Appeals depend on appreciation of circumstances which admit of different interpretations. And
upon that ground alone we affirm the judgment below.
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals is of uncertain intendment and is not satisfactory as an exposition of the law. What this Court has said in many opinions indicates clearly enough the general purpose of the
statute and the necessity of applying it with strict regard
thereto.
Affirmed.
JOINES v. PATTERSON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 298. Argued April 26, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. Conclusions of a state supreme court based upon questions of federal law wrongly determined, and acted upon, require a reversal of
the judgment and remand of the cause for further proceedings.

P. 548.

JOINES v. PATTERSON.
544

545

Opinion of the Court.

2. Laws of Arkansas, when extended over the Indian Territory by
Congress, carried with them the settled constructions placed upon
them by the Arkansas courts and, so construed, became in effect
laws of the United States as though originally enacted by Congress
for the government of the Territory. P. 549.
3. Under ยง 3509 of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, as
extended to the Indian Territory, a proceeding by a guardian to
sell land of his Choctaw Indian wards, allotted under the ChoctawChickasaw Supplemental Agreement in the name of their deceased
ancestor, was an original proceeding-not ancillary to that in which
the guardian was appointed-and was properly begun in the
United States Court for that Territory of the Judicial District in
which the land was situate; and, under the Oklahoma Enabling
Act, upon creation of that State, the cause was properly transferable to a county court of a county included within the former District in which it was begun and embracing in part the land, although
that was not the district in which the guardian was appointed.
P. 551.
4. The seven year limitation prescribed by ยง 4471 of Mansfield's
Digest upon suits to recover land began to run from the taking of
possession by one who continued in open peaceful possession for the
allotted time, though claiming under void muniments. P. 553.
5. Rights of action arising in the Indian Territory before the admission of Oklahoma as a State, remained subject to the Arkansas
statute of limitations. P. 554.
114 Okla. 9, reversed.

CERTIORARI (271 U. S. 638) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma directing a final decree for
the respondents herein, in their suit to establish against
the petitioner their claim of title to allotted Choctaw
lands.
Mr. Wiliam G. Davisson.for petitioner.
Mr. W. F. Semple was on the brief for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE1 MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This controversy concerns title to lands allotted after
her death to Emma Patterson, a Choctaw Indian. Once
55514-28-

35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

within the Southern Judicial District of Indian Territory,
they are now in Murray, Stephens and Carter counties,
Oklahoma. By original complaint presented to the Murray County District Court, February 21, 1920, respondents here-William M. Patterson, surviving husband of
Mrs. Patterson, and their five children-alleged that, although petitioner U. Sherman Joines had held actual and
peaceful possession of the lands since July 5, 1907, the
legal title thereto was in them. And they asked an appropriate decree establishing their rights.
Mrs. Patterson, resident of the Central Judicial District, Indian Territory, died there May 14, 1906, leaving
five minor children, born, respectively, 1894, 1897, 1900,
1903 and 1905. Her surviving husband, father of these
children and a white man, was appointed guardian for
them by the United States Court, Central District, sitting
at Durant (now in Bryan County, Oklahoma). Thereafter, April 24, 1907, he petitioned the United States
Court for the Southern District, sitting at Ardmore (now
in Carter County, Oklahoma), to sell the lands. May
2, 1907, that court authorized the sale, and on the following October 8 the guardian filed his report showing
sale of them at public outcry July 5, 1907, for two thousand dollars to U. Sherman Joines, petitioner here, the
highest bidder. He also stated that, acting as their guardian, he had conveyed to Joines all interest of the minors
in the lands.
October 5, 1907, purporting to act as guardian, Patterson undertook by deed to convey to Joines all the minors'
interest in the lands. Since then Joines has held open
and adverse possession.
July 14, 1913, the County Court, Carter County, Oklahoma, after reciting its succession to the United States
court sitting at Ardmore, undertook to confirm the sale
made in 1907. August 5, 1913, Patterson, purporting to
act as guardian, again undertook by deed to convey to

JOINES v. PATTERSON.
544

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner the minors' right, title and interest in and to
the lands. This deed recited the court proceedings during
1907 and the guardian's action thereunder, including his
report of sale; also the 1913 order of confirmation by the
Carter County Court. It further stated that court was
"authorized to do any and all things herein which the
said United States court for the Southern District of the
Indian Territory, sitting at Ardmore, could have done."
The District Court for Murray County heard the present cause without a jury upon an agreed statement of
facts, and heldThat William M. Patterson acquired a life estate by
curtesy in the lands which had been barred by the sevenyear statute of limitations in force within Indian Territory October 5, 1907.
That by putting Joines into possession of the lands and
allowing him to retain this for fourteen years without
complaint Patterson estopped himself from asserting any
claim thereto.
That the United States court for the Southern District
of Indian Territory had jurisdiction to authorize sale by
the guardian of the minors' interest and confirmation
thereof by the County Court, Carter County, Oklahoma,
was not void.
That the adult children and heirs are barred by the statute of limitations from asserting any claim to the lands.
An appropriate decree adjudging the issues for Joines
followed.
Upon appeal, the Supreme Court of Oklahoma first upheld the trial court, but, after a rehearing, it disapproved
all the above-stated conclusions, reversed the judgment
and directed final decree for respondents here. 114
Okla. 9.
The Supreme Court accepted and acted upon at least
two conclusions which we think are erroneous. (1)
That the proceeding in the United States court at Aid-

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

more to sell the lands was merely ancillary to the main
guardianship matter at Durant, in the Central District,
and therefore should have been transferred to Bryan, not
to Carter County. (2) That the Arkansas seven-year
statute of limitations--ยง 4471 Mansfield's Digest-did
not commence to run against William M. Patterson and
in favor of Joines when the latter took possession, since
no interest passed to him-the court proceedings and the
guardian's deed being wholly insufficient to give even
color of title. These conclusions were based upon questions of federal law wrongly determined. They were
acted upon by the court below. We must, therefore, reverse its judgment and remand the cause for further proceedings. See Whitehead v. Galloway, 249 U. S. 79.
Section 30, Act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 94,
as amended by the Act of March 1, 1895, c. 145, 28 Stat.
693, divided Indian Territory into three judicial districts-Northern, Central and Southern-and defined
their limits. Section 31 extended over it certain general
laws of Arkansas as published in Mansfield's Digest.
Among these were Chapters 20, 49, 73 and 97, relating,
respectively, to the common and statute law of England,
descent and distribution, guardians, curators and wards,
and limitations.
Section 32 of the same Act provided that "county,"
in the laws of Arkansas so extended, should mean judicial division (afterwards district), and " Indian Territory" might be substituted for " State of Arkansas."
Section 22, Act of Congress approved July 1, 1902,
c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, 643-the Choctaw-Chickasaw
Supplemental Agreement-provided: "If any person
whose name appears upon the rolls, prepared as herein
provided, shall have died subsequent to the ratification
of this agreement and before receiving his allotment of
land the lands to which such person would have been
entitled if living shall be allotted in his name, and shall,

JOINES v. PATTERSON.
544

Opinion of the Court.

together with his proportionate share of other tribal property, descend to his heirs according to the laws of descent
and distribution as provided in chapter forty-nine of
Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas: Provided,
That the allotment thus to be made shall be selected by
a duly appointed administrator or executor."
When extended over Indian Territory, the specified
laws of Arkansas carried the settled constructions placed
upon them by courts of that State. So construed, they
became, in effect, laws of the United States as though
originally enacted by Congress for government of the
Territory. Willis v. Eastern Trust & Banking Co., 169
U. S. 295, 307; James v. Appel, 192 U. S. 129, 135;
Gidney v. Chappel, 241 U. S. 99, 102. See also Byrd v.
State, 99 Okla. 165.
Oklahoma, with boundaries including Indian Territory,
came into the Union November 16, 1907. The Enabling
Act, approved June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, 277,
as amended by the Act of March 4, 1907, c. 2911, 34 Stat.
1286, 1287, directed"SEC. 19. That the courts of original jurisdiction of
such State shall be deemed to be the successor of all
courts of original jurisdiction of said Territories and as
such shall take and retain custody of all records, dockets,
journals, and files of such courts except in causes transferred therefrom, as herein provided; the files and papers
in such transferred cases shall be transferred to the proper
United States circuit or district court, together with a
transcript of all book entries to complete the record in
such particular case so transferred.
"SEC. 20. That all causes, proceedings, and matters,
civil or criminal, pending in the district courts of Oklahoma Territory, or in the United States courts in the
Indian Territory, at the time said Territories become a
State, not transferred to the United States circuit or district courts in the State of Oklahoma, shall be proceeded

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

with, held, and determined by the courts of said State,
the successors of said district courts of the Territory of
Oklahoma, and the United States courts in the Indian
Territory; with the right to prosecute appeals or writs
of error to the supreme or appellate court of said State,
and also with the same right to prosecute appeals or writs
of error from the final determination in such cases made
by the supreme or appellate court of such State to the
Supreme Court of the United States, as is provided by
law for appeals and writs of error from the supreme or final
appellate court of a State to the Supreme Court of the
United States."
The Constitution of Oklahoma provides"Section 1 ['Schedule ]. No existing rights, actions,
suits, proceedings, contracts, or claims shall be affected
by the change in the forms of government, but all shall
continue as if no change in the forms of government had
taken place. And all processes which may have been
issued previous to the admission of the State into the
Union under the authority of the Territory of Oklahoma
or under the authority of the laws in force in the Indian
Territory shall be as valid as if issued in the name of
the State.
"Section 2. All laws in force in the Territory of Oklahoma at the time of the admission of the State into the
Union, which are not repugnant to this Constitution, and
which are not locally inapplicable, shall be extended to
and remain in force in the State of Oklahoma until they
expire by their own limitation or are altered or repealed
by law.
"Section 23. When this Constitution shall go into
effect, the books, records, papers, and proceedings of the
probate court in each county, and all causes and matters
of administration and guardianship, and other matters
pending therein, shall be transferred to the county court
of such county, except of Day County, which shall be

JOINES v. PATTERSON.
544

Opinion of the Court.

transferred to the County Court of Ellis County, and the
county courts of the respective counties shall proceed to
final decree or judgment, order, or other termination in
the said several matters and causes as the said probate
court might have done if this Constitution had not been
adopted. The District Court of any county, the successor of the United States court for the Indian Territory,
in each of the counties formed in whole or in part in the
Indian Territory, shall transfer to the county court of
such county, all matters, proceedings, records, books,
papers, and documents appertaining to all causes or proceedings relating to estates: Provided, That the Legislature may provide for the transfer of any of said matters
and causes to another county than herein prescribed."
Section 3509, Mansfield's Digest: "When it shall appear that it would be for the benefit of a ward that his
real estate, or any part thereof, be sold or leased and the
proceeds put on interest, or invested in productive stocks,
or in other real estate, his guardian or curator may sell
or lease the same accordingly upon obtaining an order for
such sale or lease from the court of probate of the county
in which such real estate or the greater part thereof shall
be situate." Sections 3510 and 3511 prescribe the procedure for such causes.
Reid v. Hart,45 Ark. 41, 46, 48 (1885), distinctly holds
that the court of the county wherein lies real estate belonging to a ward is the proper tribunal to entertain an
application for its sale by his guardian. The opinion declares: "There had, however, been provisions made for
the sale of lands, on the application of administrators and
executors, for the payment of debts. They were adopted
early in our state history, being found in the Revised
Code (Sec. 147) and remained in force until the adoption
of the Civil Code of 1868. They required that the application for such an order should be made to the Probate
Court of the county in which the lands are situate. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Act of December 23, 1846, enlarged the scope of purposes
for which such sales might be made, and associated
'guardians' with personal representatives (ubi supra)
but made no change as to the tribunal. It may fairly be
inferred that, by this association, the Legislature contemplated that guardians should conform to the same rule,
and make their applications for the sale of lands in the
county where they lay. . .
This is law to this day,
and has been brought forward into Mansfield's Digest,
Sec. 3509. This displays a system by which we endeavor
to supply the omission in the act of 1846, which fails to
designate the probate court meant, by reasoning from the
organic unity of the whole system." And see MaHarry
v. Eatman, 29 Okla. 46, 53.
Under the statute thus construed, the court for the
Southern Judicial District, Indian Territory, at Ardmore
had jurisdiction of the guardian's petition to sell. The
cause there was not merely ancillary to the original guardianship proceeding in the Central District, wherein Patterson was appointed. It had the status of an independent suit.
The Enabling Act directed that causes pending in the
United States courts for Indian Territory should be proceeded with and determined by the successor courts of
Oklahoma. As we understand the opinion below, the
court recognized that if the guardian's suit for sale, begun at Ardmore, was an original and independent one,
transfer of it to the Carter County court for further action was proper. We think it was an original proceeding
and therefore was transferred to the proper court for
further action according to the rights of the parties. See
Dewalt v. Cline, 35 Okla. 197, and Bailey v. Jones, 96
Okla. 56.
Joines went into open, peaceful possession of the allotted lands October 5, 1907, when the following parts of
Chapter 97, Mansfield's digest, were in force-

JOINES v. PATTERSON.
544

Opinion of the Court.

"Section 4471. No person or persons, or their heirs,
shall have, sue or maintain any action or suit, either in
law or equity, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments
but within seven years next after his, her or their right
to commence, have or maintain such suit shall have come,
fallen or accrued; and all suits, either in law or equity,
for the recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments
shall be had and sued within seven years next after title
or cause of action accrued, and no time after said seven
years shall have passed. .
"Section 4476. No action for the recovery of real
property, when the plaintiff does not claim title to the
lands, shall be brought or maintained when the plaintiff,
or his testator or intestate, has been five years out of
possession."
Under the settled construction given to the seven-year
statute of limitations by the courts of Arkansas, it began
to run against Patterson when Joines took possession.
"So long as a man is in possession of land, claiming title,
however wrongfully, and with whatever degree of knowledge that he has no right, so long the real owner is out
of possession, in a constructive as well as an actual sense.
It is of the nature of the statute of limitation, when
applied to civil actions, in effect, to mature a wrong into
a right, by cutting off the remedy. To warrant its application in ejectment, the books require color of title, by
deed or other documental semblance of right in the defendant, only when the defense is founded on a constructive adverse possession. But neither a deed nor any
equivalent muniment is necessary, where the possession
is indicated by actual occupation, and any other evidence
of an adverse claim exists. The muniment is but one circumstance by which to make out an adverse possession."
Ferguson v. Peden, 33 Ark. 150, 155; Jacks v. Chaffin
(1879), 34 Ark. 534, 541; Logan v. Jelks, id. 547, 549.

