112

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

tion is had, which we do not decide, it would be an idle
ceremony to require such a hearing upon an investigation which we may not command and which may never
be made. In such circumstances there can be no effectual relief by mandamus and the Court of Appeals
should have remanded the cause with directions to dismiss the petition as moot. Brownlow v. Schwartz, 261
U. S. 216; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651, 653.
The argument is made that the President was without
jurisdiction to proclaim the new tariff rate because of
alleged irregularities in the conduct of the hearing before the Commission which was a prerequisite to such
action by the President. But petitioner does not attack
the validity of the tariff proclaimed by the President;
nor is this an appropriate proceeding in which to do so.
Even if the change in tariff rates were deemed to be
ineffectual, it would not follow that it is mandatory upon
the President or the Commission to institute a new
hearing.
The judgments of the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia are vacated
and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the
petition as moot.
So ordered.
LOUIS PIZITZ DRY GOODS COMPANY, INC. v.
YELDELL, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 171.

Argued February 25, 28, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.

A state law allowing punitive damages to be assessed in actions
against employers for deaths caused by negligence of their employees-the object of the statute being to prevent negligent destruction of human life-does not violate the due process clause of the
'Fourteenth Amendment. P. 114.
213 Ala. 222, affirmed.

PIZITZ CO. v. YELDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

112

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Alabama, to review a
judgment sustaining a recovery in an action for death
by negligence.
Mr. J. P. Mudd for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Benjamin F. Ray, with whom Mr. Hugo L. Black
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Defendant in error, an administrator, brought suit in
the circuit court of Jefferson County, Alabama, to recover
for the wrongful death of his intestate, caused by the negligent operation of an elevator by an employee of plaintiff
in error in its department store. The action was founded
upon the so-called Homicide Act of Alabama, ยง 5696, Code
of 1923, printed in the margin.* This statute authorizes
the recovery of damages from either a principal or an agent,
in such amount as the jury may assess, for wrongful act
or negligence causing death. The jury returned a verdict
of $9,500 and judgment for that amount was affirmed on
*

"A personal representative may maintain an action, and recover

such damages as the jury may assess in a court of competent jurisdic-

tion within the State of Alabama and not elsewhere for the wrongful
act, omission or negligence of any person or persons, or corporation,
his or their servants, or agents, whereby the death of his testator or
intestate was caused, if the testator or intestate could have maintained
an action for such wrongful act, omission, or negligence, if it had not
caused death. Such action shall not abate by the death of the defendant, but may be revived against his personal representativei and
may be maintained, though there has not been prosecution, or conviction, or acquittal of the defendant for the wrongful act, or omission, or negligence; and the damages recovered are not subject to the
payment of the debts or liabilities of the testator or intestate, but
must be distributed according to the statute of distributions. Such
action must be brought within two years from and after the death of
the testator or intestate."
5-514 -28-8

OCTOBER TERMi,

1926.

Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

appeal. 213 Ala. 222. The case comes here on writ of
error.

Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended.

Plaintiff in error does not deny its liability for the negligent act of its employee. But it calls attention to the
fact that the Homicide Act imposing liability upon the
employer for death resulting from the wrongful acts, omis-

sions or negligence of its employees, as interpreted by the
state courts, permits the jury, as in this case, to assess
punitive damages against the employer for the mere negligence of its employee. Richmond & Danville R. R. v.
Freeman,97 Ala. 289. A statute which so authorizes the
mulcting of the employer, it is argued, is "unreasonably
oppressive, arbitrary, unjust, violative of the fundamental
conceptions of fair play, and, therefore, repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment."
The legislation now challenged has been on the statute
books of Alabama in essentially its present form since
1872. The liability imposed is for tortious acts resulting
in death, but the damages, which may be punitive even
though the act complained of involved no element of recklessness, malice or wilfulness, may be assessed against the
employer who, as here, is personally without fault. The
Supreme Court of Alabama has repeatedly ruled that the
statute is aimed at the prevention of death by wrongful
act or omission. Savannah & Memphis R. R. v. Shearer,
58 Ala. 672, 680; South and North Alabama R. R. v. Sullivan, 59 Ala. 272, 279. "The statute is remedial, and not
penal, and was designed as well to give a right of action
. where none existed before, as to 'prevent homicides,' and
the action given is purely civil in its nature for the redress
of private, and not public wrongs." Southern Ry. v.
Bush, 122 Ala. 470, 489. In defining the scope of the act,
the state court has pointed out that the extent of the culpability and the amount of the verdict are for the jury and
that its finding is not to be disturbed unless the verdict

PIZITZ CO. v. YELDELL.
112

Opinion of the Court.

is "induced or reached on account of prejudice, passion,
or other improper motive or cause." Mobile Electric Co.
v. Fritz, 200 Ala. 692, 693. The case was argued here
on the assumption that its scope was thus limited and we
so interpret the statute. Its constitutionality has been
upheld by both state and federal courts. Richmond &
DanvilleR. R. v. Freeman,supra;U. S. Cast Iron & Foundry Co. v. Sullivan, 3 Fed. (2d) 794.
The objections now urged to a new form of vicarious
liability were considered and rejected in the Workmen's
Compensation cases, New York Central R. R. v. White,
243 U. S. 188; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243
U. S. 219, as they must be rejected here. The extension
of the doctrine of liability without fault to new situations
to attain a permissible legislative object is not so novel in
the law or so shocking "to reason or to conscience" as to
afford in itself any ground for the contention that it denies
due process of law. The principle of respondeat superior
itself and the rule of liability of corporations for the wilful torts of their employees, extended in some jurisdictions, without legislative sanction, to liability for punitive
damages, Boyer & Co. v. Coxen, 92 Md. 366; Hanson v.
E. & N. A. R. R., 62 Me. 84; Jeffersonville R. R. v. Rogers,
38 Ind. 116; Atlantic & Great West. Ry. v. Dunn, 19 Ohio
St. 162; see Jefferson County Savings Bank v. Eborn, 84
Ala. 529, 534; contra, Lake Shore Ry. v. Prentice, 147
U. S. 101, are recognitions by the common law that the
imposition of liability without personal fault, having its
foundation in a recognized public policy, is not repugnant
to accepted notions of due process of law. No constitutional question was presented in Lake Shore Ry. v. Prentice, supra, and this Court thus was free to choose as between these conflicting common law rules the one which it
thought most appropriate.
Lord Campbell's Act and its successors, establishing
liability for wrongful death where none existed before,

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the various Workmen's Compensation Acts, imposing new
types of liability, are familiar examples of the legislative
creation of new rights and duties for the prevention of
wrong or for satisfying social and economic needs. Their
constitutionality may not be successfully challenged
merely because a change in the common law is effected.
As interpreted by the state court, the aim of the present
statute is to strike at the evil of the negligent destruction
of human life by imposing liability, regardless of fault,
upon those who are in some substantial measure in a
position to prevent it. We cannot say that it is beyond
the power of a legislature, in effecting such a change in
common law rules, to attempt to preserve human life
by making homicide expensive. It may impose an extraordinary liability such as the present, not only upon those
at fault but upon those who, although not directly culpable, are able nevertheless, in the management of their
affairs, to guard substantially against the evil to be prevented. See St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Taylor,
210 U. S. 281; Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S.
33, 43; Wilmington Mining Co. v. Fulton, 205 U. S. 60;
cf. Van Oster v. Kansas, 272 U. S. 465. Or it may impose
on the business or enterprise in which such loss of life
occurs the economic burden of the protective measure
adopted, New York CentralR. R. v. White, supra;Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; or return to and
substitute the common law method of permitting the jury
to fix the amount of recovery, at least to the extent of
an exercise of its reasonable judgment, for the presentday method of weighing and measuring the value of
human life.
The distinction between punitive and compensatory
damages is a modern refinement. The first use of the
term "exemplary damages" is ascribed to Lord Camden
in Huckle v. Money, 2 Wils. 205. See Sedgwick, Damages,
ยง 348. Although sporadic instances of new trials being

