NORTHERN RY. CO. v. PAGE.
Syllabus.

37

without aiding and abetting the enemy. Observance by
each member of the provision of their constitution which
forbids such action was essential to his own self-protection. It was demanded of each by loyalty to the organization and to his fellows. If, on the undisputed facts
of this case, refusal to work can be enjoined, Congress
created by the Sherman Law and the Clayton Act an
instrument for imposing restraints upon labor which reminds of involuntary servitude. The Sherman Law was
held in United States v. United States Steel Corporation,
251 U. S. 417, to permit capitalists to combine in a single
corporation 50 per cent. of the steel industry of the
United States dominating the trade through its vast resources. The Sherman Law was held in United States
v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 247 U. S. 32, to permit
capitalists to combine in another corporation practically
the whole shoe machinery industry of the country, necessarily giving it a position of dominance over shoe-manufacturing in America. It would, indeed, be strange if
Congress had by the same Act willed to deny to members of a small craft of workingmen the right to cooperate in simply refraining from work, when that course
was the only means of self-protection against a cohabination of militant and powerful employers. I cannot
believe that Congress did so.
MR. JusTicE HOLMEs concurs in this opinion.
NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. PAGE ET AL.,
ADMINISTRATORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 136.

Argued January 17, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.

Costa Rican troops on a railway train fired into a train of the defendant and shot the plaintiff, a passenger. The negligence alleged was
that defendant knew the troops had reasonable cause to believe the
passenger train was transporting armed hostile forces and failed
55514o

28----3

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

seasonably and adequately to inform the government troops that
this was not so. Held,
1. Plaintiff had the burden to show that the specified negligence
was the proximate cause of his injuries, and a verdict in his favor
can not be sustained if essential facts are left to conjecture and
speculation. P. 72.
2. There being no evidence that the conductor did not notify
those in charge of the troops that there were no hostile forces on the
passenger train, his failure to testify on that point does not permit
an inference that he was not in position so to state. P. 73.
3. The mere fact of the shooting does not tend to show defendant
was at fault; the uncontradicted evidence shows that the shooting
could not reasonably have been anticipated as the natural and
probable result of the failure of defendant to inform the government forces, earlier or otherwise than was done, that there were
no insurrectos on the train. P. 75.
3 F. (2d) 747, reversed.

CGRTI0ORAP (269 U. S. 542) to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the
District Court, entered on an alternative verdict for defendant, and directed the District Court to enter judgment on the verdict of damages for the plaintiff, in an
action for personal injuries suffered by the plaintiff while
a passenger on defendant's railway in Costa Rica, when
the train was fired upon by Costa Rican troops.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge, with whom Mr. John M.

Ray-

mond was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. CharlesF. Perkins,with whom Mr. PaulF. Perkins

was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This action was brought in the District Court of Massachusetts by Michael B. Ryan against the petitioner and
the United Fruit Company to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by him, February 23, 1918, in
Costa Rica while a passenger on a railway train alleged
to have been operated by both companies. A verdict was
directed for the Fruit Company. No question as to its

NORTHERN RY. CO. v. PAGE.
65

Opinion of the Court.

liability is presented here. We may refer to the railway
company as the defendant.
On the day before plaintiff was hurt a small insurrection broke out in a part of Costa Rica west of San Jos6,
the capital. Plaintiff was traveling on the regular morning passenger train running easterly from that city to
Port Limon on the Atlantic coast. At Turrialba, about
65 miles from Port Limon, the train was held up by insurrectos. Its seizure was reported to the Governor at Port
Limon, and he sent out a train containing government
troops. After detention for some hours the passenger
train was allowed' to go. The railroad is a single track
line having sidings at various places. Both trains were
given orders to meet at La Pascua. The passenger train
was the first to arrive at that place and went upon the
side track to let the troop train pass. The officers of the
troop train gave an order to, and the troops did, fire upon
the passenger cars. Some passengers were killed and
others, including the plaintiff, were seriously injured.
At the close of the evidence, the district judge, doubting
whether there was anything to show negligence on the
part of the defendant, submitted the case to the jury; and,
in accordance with the practice in Massachusetts and that
federal district, directed the jury that, if they found for
the plaintiff, they should also return an alternative verdict for defendant, which could be entered if later it should
be held as a matter of law that plaintiff was not entitled
to recover. General Laws of Massachusetts, c. 231, § 120;
Automatic Pencil Sharpener Co. v. Boston Pencil Pointer
Co., 279 Fed. 40. The jury gave plaintiff a verdict for
$25,000 and made the alternative finding as directed.
Afterwards, on motion of the defendant, the district judge
set aside the verdict for plaintiff and entered the alternative verdict. He held that there was no evidence to support a finding against defendant. Subsequently, plaintiff
died; his administrators were made parties, and judgment

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

was entered for defendant. The case was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court vacated the
judgment of the District Court, set aside the verdict for
defendant, and remanded the case with directions to
reinstate the verdict and give judgment for plaintiffs.
3 F. (2d) 747. This Court granted defendant's petition
for a writ of certiorari. 269 U. S. 542.
At the trial plaintiff called a witness familiar with Costa
Rica law. He testified in substance: One who through
his fault causes injury to another is bound to make reparation. If a corporation is to be held, the negligence must
be that of a person who stands in position of representative. One in immediate charge of a train is held to be
the representative of the railroad company for the purpose of that operation. The rule that a high degree of
care is owed by a railroad carrier to its passengers does
not prevail in that country. The duty owed is uniform.
It is the care exercised by a diligent head of a family-a
prudent and diligent person who is his own master. In
the absence of negligence on the part of the carrier, it
is not liable for injuries sustained by passengers. The
witness cited §§ 1045 and 1048 of the Code of Costa Rica.
Plaintiff sought recovery on the ground that defendant
knew that the troops had reasonable cause to believe that
the passenger train was transporting armed hostile forces
and failed seasonably and adequately to inform the government troops and their officers that there were no insurrectos on the passenger train.
There is little or no controversy as to the facts. The
passenger train left San Jos6 at eight in the morning and
was due at Port Limon at 4.30 in the afternoon. It consisted of locomotive, five freight cars, a combination baggage and second-class passenger car, one or two first-class
coaches, and a pay car carrying gold, silver and express
parcels. Ramsay was the conductor; he and other members of the crew were regular employees of defendant.

NORTHERN RY. CO. v. PAGE.
65

Opinion of the Court.

The passengers were men, women and children-some
natives and some foreigners. The train arrived at Turrialba at half after eleven. There the insurrectos held it
up and searched for persons connected with the Government. One was taken on suspicion, but no one else was
molested. The officers in command gave assurance that
the train would be detained only while the insurrectos
used the engine to destroy track between that place and
San Jose. About a quarter before six, the train was
allowed to go. As it was leaving, an officer ordered some
insurrectos to go and blow up the bridge at Torito, which
is about two miles east of Turrialba. When the train
arrived at Torito, all the insurrectos got off. The train
went to Peralta, four or five miles further on, where the
conductor received an order to pass a special train at
La Pascua, which was five or six miles ahead. No information was given him that this was the train carrying
troops. That train left Port Limon about half after three.
It was also in charge of regular employees of the defendant. The train crew and the officers in command of the
troops knew that the passenger train had been held up by
the insurrectos. The troops were ordered to Turrialba to
meet the rebels. At Las Lomas orders were received to
pass an extra or special train at La Pascua, about six
miles west. The troop train arrived at La Pascua about
seven o'clock.
We quote from the record:
"Grant, a witness called for the plaintiff, testified on
direct examination as follows: 'When the cars came
close enough you could see guns sticking out of the windows in perfect alignment, and see troops standing on
the steps, . . . I believe somebody on the ground,
Mr. Ramnsay or Mr. Veitch or somebody else there,
mentioned that it was a troop train going up to attack
these revolutionists.' When the locomotive of the troop
train arrived opposite the combination baggage and pas-

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

senger car, Ramsay flagged it and told the engineer to
look out for the Torito bridge where he had left revolutionists, that he would probably find it torn up. Two
officers then alighted from the troop train and one said
to Ramsay 'What train is this?' . . . he replied that
it was the regular passenger train from San Jos6 to
Limon. He told the officer in English and then in Spanish that there were no revolutionists on board. Ramsay
-testified that he knew the officer by sight as he had traveled on his train before. At the same time the other
officer was speaking to one Veitch . . . He asked
Veitch what the train was, and Veitch replied that it
was the passenger train from San Jos6 to Limon, and
that there were no revolutionists on board. Veitch had
been an importer and banana grower in Costa Rica for
eleven years prior to 1918, and was then consular agent
for the Italian Government. Ramsay then signaled his
train to proceed, the officers demanded that it be halted,
which was done. The troop train then began to move
forward, the officers walking beside it. When the passenger cars of the troop train were approximately opposite the passenger coaches of the passenger train, and
while the troop train was still in motion, although coming to a stop, one of the officers raised his sword and
waved it and an order to fire was given. Immediately
the firing began by the troops, some kneeling in the car
with their guns extending out of the windows about three
feet, and some on the platforms."
The record contains nothing that in any material or
substantial particular conflicts with that account of what
there occurred. In fact, it is supported by the testimony given by plaintiff in his own behalf. ie said: The
passenger train went upon the siding at La Pascua and
was there five or ten minutes before the troop train
arrived. He remained in the coach. Some of the passengers got off the train and walked about. When the troop

NORTHERN RY. CO. v. PAGE.
65

71

Opinion of the Court.

train first stopped the engines were about opposite each
other. He saw Conductor Ramsay and the officers in
command of the troops talking, but did not hear what
they said. There was nothing to indicate that any one
was alarmed or expected trouble. The troop train pulled
up and stopped so that a troop car was opposite plaintiff's car. The weather was warm and the windows of
the passenger cars were open. There was nothing to indicate that it was other than an ordinary passenger train.
There had been no sign of hostility. The troops, lined
up in their car, fired into the windows of the passenger
cars. There were about twenty passengers in plaintiff's
car; some were in the aisle and some were looking out
the windows. And plaintiff testified that it was light
enough so that one could see a considerable distance;
that, when the troop train first stopped, he could see
Conductor Ramsay apparently talking to the officers in
charge of the troops, "That would be probably 100, 150
maybe 200 feet. I don't remember. It was the full
length of the train. We were pretty nearly back." He
said that it was light enough for him to see Ramsay and
the officers at that distance; and, although it was dusk
at the time, there was good visibility up to 200 feet.
Veitch, called as a witness for defendant, testified that,
when the troop train stopped and while Ramsay was
talking to one of the officers, he talked to the other officer
and told him that it was a passenger train from San
Jos6 to Port Limon and that there were no revolutionists
on board. Later he heard this officer give command to
the troops to fire, and firing began immediately. He
stood there until he saw guns pointed at him and then
went under the train; they put two bullets through his
clothes and two through a valise he was carrying; and
he saw them shoot and kill a man who was leaning out
of a coach window.
On the day of the shooting, the general manager of
the company was at its offices at Port Limon. He testi-

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

fled that, when he learned that the insurrectos had held
up the train, he notified the Governor who was also at
Port Limon; and that, when he learned the insurrectos
were ready to release the train, he so informed the Governor and the latter instructed him to move the passenger
train; that he reminded the Governor that there was a

troop train on the line. "I told him he had better notify
the troop train. He said he would. Afterwards he said
he did." And the general manager testified that he
promptly telephoned to the yard master at Siquirres, a
station east of Las Lomas, to get word to the conductor
of the troop train that the passenger train was carrying
non-combatants, including women and children. The
railway superintendent testified that he notified the Governor of the release of the passenger train and asked and
procured authority to move it to Port Limon. The assistant train dispatcher, who came on duty at five o'clock,
testified that about a quarter after five Ramsay reported
that the train had been released, and later reported from
Peralta that all of the revolutionists had got off at Torito
to destroy a bridge; that, when the troop train was at
Siquirres, he notified the conductor that the passenger
train had been released and that "meet orders" would
be given later; that he communicated with the troop train
at Las Lomas that the other train had no revolutionists
aboard and gave orders to pass it at La Pascua.
The burden was oni plaintiff to show that defendant's
negligence, as specified above, was the proximate cause
of his injuries. Under familiar rules, plaintiff was entitled to prevail if the evidence and the inferences that a
jury might legitimately draw from it were fairly and
reasonably sufficient to warrant a finding in his favor.
Otherwise the judgment must be for defendant. C. M.
& St. P. Ry. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 478, and cases
cited. The verdict cannot be sustained if essential facts

NORTHERN lY. CO. v. PAGE.
65

Opinion of the Court.

are left in the realm of conjecture and speculation. St.
Louis, etc. Ry. ir. Mills, 271 U. S. 344, 347.
The record does not include or purport to contain
all the evidence. It does not show that Ramsay failed
to testify as to what he said to the officers in command
of the troops before the order to fire was given. It shows
that he testified that when the shooting began he called
out to the troops that they were firing on passengers and
that there were no revolutionists on the train. And, in
the paragraph quoted, the bill of exceptions shows that
plaintiff's witness, Grant, testified that when Ramsay
flagged the troop train, he told one of the officers that
his was the regular passenger train and that there were
no revolutionists on board. In the opinion of the majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals it is said (p. 752):
"The jury might have found that, inasmuch as Ramsay,
the conductor, did not testify as to what he said to the
officers in charge of the troops prior to the shooting, but
did testify that when the shooting began he cried out that
there were no revolutionists on the train, nothing of the
kind was said until after the shooting began; that the
troops and their officers never received any information
as to the harmless character of the occupants of the train,
or received it too late and under such circumstances as to
render it unavailable."
This view cannot be sustained. There was no basis for
the court's assumption. There was nothing reasonably
to warrant the rejection of Grant's testimony. Indeed,
plaintiff's own testimony tended to corroborate Grant.
And the district judge in charging the jury assumed as
an undisputed fact that when the train stopped the officers were informed by Ramsay and Veitch that there were
no revolutionists on the train. The case having been so
put to the jury, it is to be assumed that they considered
the matter on that basis. Defendant was not required

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

to satisfy the jury that it was not guilty of the negligence
alleged against it. If Ramsay had not testified at all, his
failure so to do could not be taken as substantive evidence
of any fact. If, instead of showing that Ramsay had told
the officers that no insurrectos were on his train, plaintiff had put in testimony that no such information had
been given to the government forces and then Ramsay
had remained silent, it would have been permissible to
draw an inference that he was not in position to assert
the contrary. But that is not the situation here presented. Tully v. FitchburgRailroad,134 Mass. 499, 502;
Poirierv. Terceiro, 224 Mass. 435, 437; W. F. Corbin &
Co. v. United States, 181 Fed. 296, 304; Owens BottleMachine Co. v. Kanawha Banking & Trust Co., 259 Fed.
838, 842. There is nothing to support a finding that the
officers in charge of the troops were not informed at La
Pascua before the order to fire was given that there were
no insurrectos on the passenger train. The record discloses no reason for rejecting the testimony of Grant and
Veitch. It is to be taken as established that such information was given.
And, assuming that a jury properly might decline to
believe the testimony of defendant's officials going to
show that the troop train and officers in charge had been
so informed before they left Las Lomas, actionable negligence was not made out. There was no evidence that the
officers in charge of the troops had any reason to believe
that the train they were directed to meet at La Pascua
was then carrying insurrectos. Even if there was evidence
that they had ground for such belief and that defendant
failed to take some precaution, there is nothing to show
that such failure caused plaintiff's injuries. If the direct
and positive information as to the harmless character of
the train given on the spot by Ramsay and Veitch was not

NORTHERN RY. CO. v. PAGE.
65

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient, it must be deemed a matter of speculation and
conjecture whether any information that defendant could
have given would have prevented the shooting. St. Louis,
etc. Ry. v. Mills, supra, 347. The mere fact that the
troops shot into the passenger train does not tend to show
that defendant was at fault. And, when regard is had to
the facts and circumstances shown by uncontradicted evidence, it is clear that the shooting was an occurrence that
could not reasonably have been anticipated or foreseen as
the natural and probable result of any failure of defendant
earlier or otherwise to inform the government forces that
there were no insurrectos on the passenger train. It
follows that there is no ground on which defendant can be
held liable for the injuries inflicted on plaintiff by the
government forces. Scheffer v. Railroad Co., 105 U. S.
249, 252; Milwaukee, etc. Railway Co. v. Kellogg, 94
U. S. 469, 475; American Bridge Co. v. Seeds, 144 Fed.
605, 609; Jarnaginv. Travelers Protective Ass'n., 133 Fed.
892, 896; Cole v. German Savings and Loan Soc., 124
Fed. 113.
In his memorandum on the motion to set aside the
verdict, the trial judge said: "I am unable to discover
in the evidence anything on which a finding of negligence
can be supported or to say, even after the event, in what
the defendant's agents and servants failed. The jury
might, of course, reject the testimony of the defendant's
witnesses; but that would not supply evidence of negligence on the defendant's part. The attack took place, apparently, because the officers in command of the troops
lost their heads and behaved with incredible folly. It
was an extraordinary occurrence which the defendant had
no reason to anticipate and for which it is not liable."
The record fully sustains that statement.
Judgment reversed.

