380

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

Our power of review in this case is limited not only
to the question whether a right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution was denied, Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590; Hairev. Rice, 204 U. S.291, 301; but
to the particular claims duly made below, and denied.

SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477, 485-488.
We lack here the power occasionally exercised on review
of judgments of lower federal courts to correct in criminal cases vital errors, although" the objection was not

taken in the trial court. Wiborg v. United States, 163
U. S. 632, 658-660; Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S. 207,
221-222. This is a writ of error to a state court. Because we may not enquire into the errors now alleged, I
concur in affirming the judgment of the state court.
MR.JusTICE HOLMES joins in this opinion.

FISKE v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 48. Argued May 3, 1926.--Decided May 16, 1927.
1. A decision of a state court applying and enforcing a state statute
of general scope against a particular transaction as to which there
was a distinct and timely insistence that, if so applied, the statute
was void under the Federal Constitution, necessarily affirms the
validity of the statute as so applied, and the judgment is, therefore,
reviewable by writ of error under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code. P.385.
2. The inquiry then is whether the statute is constitutional as applied
and enforced in respect of the situation presented. P. 385.
3. This Court will review the finding of facts by a state court where
a federal right has been denied as the result of a finding shown by
the record to be without evidence to support it; or where a conclusion of law as to a federal right, and a finding of fact, are so
intermingled as to make it necessary, in order to pass upon the
federal question, to analyze the facts. P. 385.
4. A Kansas statute defining "criminal syndicalism" as "the doctrine
which advocates crime, physical violence, arson, destruction of
property, sabotage, or other unlawful acts or methods, as a means
of accomplishing or effecting industrial or political ends, or as a

FISKE v. KANSAS.
380

Opinion of the Court.

means of effecting industrial or political revolution, or for profit
. .." and punishing any person who "advocates, affirmatively
suggests or teaches the duty, necessity, propriety or expediency of
crime, criminal syndicalism, or sabotage," was applied by the state
court as covering a case where it was charged and proved merely
that the defendant secured members in an organization whose constitution proclaimed: "That the working class and the employing
class have nothing in common, and that there can be no peace so
long as hunger and want are found among millions of working
people and the few who make up the employing class have all the
good things of life. Between these two classes a struggle must go
on until the workers of the world organize as a class, take possession of the earth and the machinery of production and abolish the
wage system. Instead of the conservative motto, 'A fair day's
wages for a fair day's work,' we must inscribe on our banner the
revolutionary watchword, 'Abolition of the wage system.' By organizing industrially we are forming the structure of the new
society within the shell of the old." Held, that there being no charge
or evidence that the organization advocated any crime, violence, or
other unlawful acts or methods as a means of effecting industrial or
political changes or revolution, thus applied the statute is a violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 386. 117 Kan. 69, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas
which affirmed a conviction of Fiske under the Kansas
Criminal Syndicalism Act.

Mr. A. M. Harvey, with whom Messrs. Randal C.
Harvey and CharlesL. Carrollwere on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles B. Griffith., Attorney General of Kansas,
with whom Mr. Roland Boynton, Assistant Attorney
General, were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTmcu SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The plaintiff in error was tried and convicted in the
District Court of Rice County, Kansas, upon an information charging him with violating the Criminal Syndicalism Act of that State. Laws, Spec. Sess. 1920, c. 37. The

judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

State, 117 Kan. 69; and this writ of error was allowed by
the Chief Justice of that court.
The only substantial federal question presented to and
decided by the state court, and which may therefore be
re-examined by this Court, is whether the Syndicalism
Act as applied in this case is repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The relevant provisions of the Act are:
"Section 1. ' Criminal Syndicalism' is hereby defined
to be the doctrine which advocates crime, physical violence, arson, destruction of property, sabotage, or other
unlawful acts or methods, as a means of accomplishing or
effecting industrial or political ends, or as a means
of effecting industrial or political revolution, or for
profit. . . . Sec. 3. Any person who, by word of
mouth, or writing, advocates, affirmatively suggests or
teaches the duty; necessity, propriety or expediency of
crime, criminal syndicalism, or sabotage
. . is
guilty of a felony.
"
The information charged that the defendant did " by
word of mouth and by publicly displaying and circulating certain books and pamphlets and written and printed
matter, advocate, affirmatively suggest and teach the
duty, necessity, propriety and expediency of crime, criminal syndicalism, and sabotage by
. .
knowingly
and feloniously persuading, inducing and securing " certain persons "to sign an application for membership in
and by issuing to" them "membership cards"
in a certain Workers' Industrial Union, "a branch of
and component part of the Industrial Workers of the
World organization, said defendant then and there knowing that said organization unlawfully teaches, advocates
and affirmatively suggests: 'That the working class and
the employing class have nothing in common, and that
there can be no peace so long as hunger and want are
found among millions of working people and the few
who make up the employing class have al the good things

FISKE v. KANSAS.
380

Opinion of the Court.

of life.' And that, 'Between these two classes a struggle
must go on until the workers of the World organize as a
class, take possession of the earth, and the machinery of
production and abolish the wage system.' And that: 'Instead of the conservative motto, "A fair day's wages for
a fair day's work," we must inscribe on our banner the
revolutionary watchword, "Abolition of the wage system." By organizing industrially we are forming the
structure of the new society within the shell of the old.'"
The defendant moved to quash the information as insufficient, for the reason, among others, that it failed to
specify the character of the organization in which he was
alleged to have secured members. This was overruled.
On the trial the State offered no evidence as to the doctrines advocated, suggested or taught by the Industrial
Workers of the World organization other than a copy of
the preamble to the constitution of that organization containing the language set forth and quoted in the information. The defendant, who testified in his own behalf,
stated that he was a member of that organization and
understood what it taught; that while it taught the matters set forth in this preamble it did not teach or suggest
that it would obtain industrial control in any criminal
way or unlawful manner, but in a peaceful manner; that
he did not believe in criminal syndicalism or sabotage,
and had not at any time advocated, suggested or taught
the duty, necessity, propriety and expediency of crime,
criminal syndicalism or sabotage, and did not know that
they were advocated, taught or suggested by the organization; and that in taking the applications for membership in the organization, which contained the preamble
to the constitution, he had explained the principles of
the organization so far as he knew them by letting the
applicants read this preamble.
The jury was instructed that before the defendant could
be convicted they must be satisfied from the evidence,
beyond a reasonable doubt, that the Industrial Workers

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of the World was an organization that taught criminal
syndicalism as defined by the Syndicalism Act.
The defendant moved in arrest of judgment upon the
ground, among others, that the evidence and the facts
stated did not constitute a public offense and substantiate
the charges alleged in the information. And he also
moved for a new trial upon the grounds, among others,
that the verdict was contrary to the law and the evidence
and wholly unsupported by the evidence. Both of these
motions were overruled.
On the appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
among the errors assigned were, generally, that the court
erred in overruling his motions to quash the information,
his demurrer to the evidence-which doesnot appear in
the record-, and his motions in arrest of judgment and
for a new trial; and specifically, that the "court erred
in refusing to quash the information, in overruling the
demurrer to the evidence, and in overruling the motion
in arrest of judgment, because the information and the
cause of action attempted to be proved were based upon"
the Kansas Syndicalism Act, "which, insofar as it sustains this prosecution is in violation . . . of the Constitution of the United States and especially of the Fourteenth Amendment" including the due process clause
thereof.
The Supreme Court of the State, in its opinion, said:
The information "does not in set phrase allege that the
association known as the Industrial Workers of the World
advocates, affirmatively suggests or teaches criminal syndicalism, but when read as a whole it clearly signifies this,
and also that the language quoted (which the evidence
shows to be taken from the preamble of the constitution
of that organization) was employed to express that doc. The language quoted from the I. W. W.
trine. .
preamble need not-in order to sustain the judgmentbe held, necessarily and as a matter of law, to advocate,

FISKE v. KANSAS.
380

Opinion of the Court.

teach or even affirmatively suggest physical violence as a
means of accomplishing industrial or political ends. It is
open to that interpretation and is capable of use to convey that meaning. . . . The jury were not required
to accept the defendant's testimony as a candid and accurate statement. There was room for them to find, as
their verdict shows they did, that the equivocal language
of the preamble and of the defendant in explaining it to
his prospects was employed to convey and did convey the
sinister meaning attributed to it by the state.
" 7. A final contention is that -the statute . . . is
obnoxious to the due-process-of-law clause of the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution. Statutes
penalizing the advocacy of violence in bringing about governmental changes do not violate constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech."
A decision of a state court applying and enforcing a
state statute of general scope against a particular transaction as to which there was a distinct and timely insistence
that, if so applied, the statute was void under the Federal
Constitution, necessarily affirms the validity of the statute as so applied, and the judgment is, therefore, reviewable by writ of error under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code.
Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 288.
The inquiry then is whether the statute is constitutional
as applied and enforced in respect of the situation
presented. Ward & Gow v. Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503, 510;
Cudahy Co. v. Parramore,263 U. S. 418, 422. And see
St. Louis, &c., Railway v. Wayne, 224 U. S. 354, 359..
And this Court will review the finding of facts by a
State court where a federal right has been denied as the
result of a finding shown by the.record to be without evidence to support it; or where a conclusion of law as to a
Federal right and a finding of fact are so intermingled as
to make it necessary, in order to pass upon the Federal
55514-28-25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 II. S.

question, to analyze the facts. Northern Pacific Railway
v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593; Aetna Life Ins. Co.
v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389, 394; and cases cited.
Here the state court held the Syndicalism Act not to
be repugnant to the due process clause as applied in a
case in which the information in effect charged the defendant with violation of the Act in that he had secured
members in an organization which taught, advocated and
affirmatively suggested the doctrines set forth in the extracts from the preamble to its constitution, and in which
there was no evidence that the organization, taught, advocated or suggested any other doctrines. No substantial inference can, in our judgment, be drawn from the
language of this preamble, that the organization taught,
advocated or suggested the duty, necessity, propriety, or
expediency of crime, criminal syndicalism, sabotage, or
other unlawful acts or methods. There is no suggestion
in the preamble that the industrial organization of workers as a class for the purpose of getting possession of the
machinery of production and abolishing the wage system,
was to be accomplished by any other than lawful methods; nothing advocating the overthrow of the existing
industrial or political conditions by force, violence or unlawful means. And standing alone, as it did in this case,
there was nothing which warranted the court or jury in
ascribing to this language, either as an inference of law
or fact, "the sinister meaning attributed to it by the
state." In this respect the language of the preamble is
essentially different from that of the manifesto involved
in Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 665, and lacks the
essential elements which brought that document under
the condemnation of the law. And it is not as if the preamble were shown to have been followed by further statements or declarations indicating that it was intended to
mean, and to be understood as advocating, that the ends
outlined therein would be accomplished or brought about

