OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

188

274 U. S.

Syllabus.

Court of the United States, in a case there pending, even
though the writ of error is erroneously issued, is, when
the writ is executed and the record brought here, to be
regarded as having been a case pending in this Court from
the allowance and issuing of the writ of error, and as
then removed from the control and jurisdiction of the
District Court-and to continue as such for the purposes
of ยง 14 until the writ of error is dismissed. The effect
of ยง 14, therefore, is to impose on this Court the duty of
granting the transfer to the Circuit Court of Appeals if
that is the court, as it is, to which this case should have
been taken on error. The previous dismissal of the case
is set aside and the transfer of the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit is ordered.
A similar order will be made in the case of Goodbody v.
PennsylvaniaCompany, No. 178.
Dismissals set aside, and cases
transferred.

ROAD

IMPROVEMENT

DISTRICT

FRANKLIN COUNTY, ARKANSAS,

NO.
ET AL.

1 OF
v. MIS-

SOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 38. Argued April 19, 1926.-Decided April 18, 1927.
1. A legislative confirmation of a special assessment cures irregularities but not constitutional infirmities. P. 191.
2. Concurrent findings of two courts below of facts showing a road
improvement assessment to be arbitrary and unreasonably discriminatory should be accepted by this Court unless clearly
erroneous. P. 191.
3. An assessment against a railroad based on real property and also
its rolling stock and other personal property is unreasonably discriminatory when other assessments for the same improvement are
based on real property alone. P. 192.

ROAD DIST. v. MO. PAC. R. R. CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

4. Testimony that the assessors fixed the benefits to the railroad on a
mileage basis regardless of area, and as to other property proceeded
solely with regard to area, is of no avail after a legislative adoption
of the assessments, where the modes in which the assessors arrived
at the amounts assessed were not shown on the assessment roll or
communicated to the legislature. P. 192.
5. That loss of local traffic to a railroad usually results when a hardsurface road adapted to use by motor-driven vehicles is constructed
practically parallel to its line, is of common knowledge. P. 194.
6. The evidence shows that an increase in traffic and revenue of the
railroad, as respects freight moving in car-load lots and passengers
travelling considerable distances, may reasonably be expected
from the proposed road improvement, greater than the loss in
local traffic, but that the assessment far exceeds such anticipated
benefit and is arbitrary and violative of the Due Process Clause.
P. 194.
7. Where an excessive special assessment was enjoined absolutely,
but the evidence showed that some benefit would accrue, the court
modified the decree so that a new assessment not exceeding an
amount stated, might be imposed by the board of assessors empowered by the state law to revise such assessments. P. 194.
2 F. (2d) 340, modified and affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court setting aside,
as arbitrary and discriminatory, a special assessment of
benefits against the Railroad, made to help defray the
cost of a road improvement in Arkansas.
Mr. Dave Partain, with whom Messrs. G. C. Carter
and Heartsil Ragon were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Thomas B. Pryor,with whom Mr. Edward J. White
was on the brief, for appellee.

Mr. JusTICE VA
the Court.

DEVANTEE delivered the opinion of

This is a suit to annul an assessment of benefits accruing to a railroad from the improvement of a public road
in Franklin County, Arkansas.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The improvement was undertaken by a road district
created for the purpose by an act of the state legislature
directing that the cost be distributed over the lands, railroads and other real property within the district, in the
form of special taxes measured by benefits received. Act
588, Special Road Acts 1919. The benefits were to be
assessed by the district's assessors; and any owner aggrieved by their action was to have a right for twenty
days to sue in a court of competent jurisdiction to set aside
the assessment against his property. Otherwise it was to
be "incontestable either at law or in equity."
The assessors originally assessed the benefits to the
railroad at $54,062.00; and the railroad company in due
time brought this suit to annul that assessment-on the
grounds, among others, that it was plainly arbitrary and
unreasonably discriminatory and therefore in violation of
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
While the suit was pending the state legislature confirmed the assessments, specifically including that against
the railroad, and authorized additional assessments, to be
made conformably to the first act, to meet the cost of proposed changes in the width of the road-bed and in other
features of the improvement. Act 626, Special Acts 1921.
The proposed changes in the plans were made and additional assessments ensued. In this way the total assessment against the railroad came to be $75,686.00. The
legislation passed an act confirming and approving the
additional assessments, again specifically including that
against the railroad. Act 109, Special Acts 1923. In
supplementary bills, filed by the court's leave, the plaintiff set forth the additional assessment and the legislative
confirmations, and challenged their validity on the same
grounds that were advanced against the original assessment.

ROAD DIST. v. MO. PAC. R. R. CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

On the hearing much evidence was produced; and the
District Court found that the assessment against the railroad was plainly arbitrary and unreasonably discriminatory, and on that ground entered a decree setting it aside
and enjoining the defendants from attempting to collect
any tax based thereon. The Circuit Court of Appeals
concurred in the finding and affirmed the decree. 2 F.
(2d) 340.
The defendants bring the case here, their contentions
being, (a) that the legislative confirmation of the assessment is controlling; (b) that the court below erred in
finding that the assessment was plainly arbitrary and unreasonably discriminatory; and (c) that if the assessment
was excessive, either in itself or when compared with the
assessments against other property, it should be not
wholly set aside but reduced to the extent of the excess.
There can be no doubt that the legislative confirmation
placed the assessment on the same plane as if it were made
by the legislature, and thereby cured any mere irregularities on the part of the assessors; but, as the legislature
could not put aside or override constitutional limitations,
the confirmation did not prevent inquiry into the alleged
violation of such limitations.
If, as found by the courts below, the assessment was
plainly arbitrary and unreasonably discriminatory, it was
in violation of both the due process and the equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment; so we turn
to the complaint of that finding. As the courts below
concurred in the finding on successive examinations of
the evidence it should be accepted by us unless shown to
be clearly erroneous. Washington Securities Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 76, 78; Baker v. Schofield, 243
U. S. 114, 118; United States v. State Investment Co.,
264 U. S. 206, 211; Norton v. Larney, 266 U. S. 511, 518.
The road district extends across Franklin County from
east to west along the Arkansas River and is five or six

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

miles wide. The public road which is. being improved
traverses the district from east to west, is 24 miles long,
practically parallels the railroad and touches the same
towns. The improvement consists, in reducing curves and
grades, widening the road-bed and giving it a rock base
and hard surface adapted to use at.all seasons by all kinds
of vehicles, whether drawn by animals or propelled by
motors. The road is intended to be part of a projected
hard-surface highway extending from Little Rock to Fort
Smith, as the railroad does. The area of the road district
is 67,000 acres and that of the railroad right of way
therein is 565 acres, or eight-tenths of one per cent. of
the whole. The benefits assessed to property in the district aggregate $575,421.35, of which $75,686.00, or 13.2
per cent., is assessed to the railroad.
The assessment to the railroad is not based on real
property alone, but also on rolling stock and other personalty valued at $52,465.00, while all other assessments
are confined to real property. In this there is an obvious
and unreasonable discrimination. Further discrimination
is said to be shown by testimony indicating that the assessors fixed the benefits to the railroad on a mileage basis
regardless of area, and as to other property -proceeded
solely with regard to area. But this testimony must be
put aside by reason of the legislative adoption of the
assessments. The modes in which the assessors arrived at
the amounts assessed were not shown on the assessment
roll or communicated to the legislature; so the question
of discrimination must be determined independently of
the theories and processes of the assessors, as if the assessments were made directly by the legislature.
Most of the testimony is addressed to the questions
whether and how far the railroad will be benefited by the
intended improvement of the parallel public road. Some
witnesses are of opinion there will be no benefit, and a

ROAD DIST. v. MO. PAC. R. R. CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

few that there will be great benefit. These are extreme
views and are weakened, rather than supported, by further statements of the same witnesses. Other testimony
in substantial volume, coming from witnesses informed
by observation and experience, is to the effect that, while
an increase in particular traffic with accompanying revenue reasonably may be expected, it will be less than would
be realized if the highway extended away from the railroad and reached localities theretofore without such a
road; that, unlike such a lateral feeder, the parallel road
reaching the same towns as the railroad will through its
ready use by motor-driven vehicles withdraw from the
railroad much of the less-than-car-load freight between
these towns, and much of the passenger traffic between
them; that such has been the actual result in similar
situations along this and other railroads in Arkansas and
other States, specific instances being described; and that
the loss to this railroad in the instances described has
ranged from 50 to 90 per cent. of such local traffic and
compelled a cessation of part of the service to which it
was incident. The successful competition of motor trucks
in these situations is explained on the grounds that they
do not bear the cost of constructing 'and maintaining the
roadway, and are able to receive and deliver freight at
the street door and to relieve their patrons from drayage
charges. The view that the improved road will be of
mixed benefit and detriment to the railroad is not confined to the plaintiff's witnesses but shared by informed
witnesses called by the defendants. One of these, a member of the State Highway Commission and familiar with
the particular situation and the development in the locality, 'testifies: "Q. What in your opinion is the effect of
building this highway upon the revenue of the Missouri
Pacific Railway? Will it be a detriment to it, or will it
not be a benefit? A. Well from some standpoints a bene55514o-28--13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

fit, and from others perhaps a detriment, but as a whole
perhaps a benefit."
From all the testimony we think there is ample ground
for believing that the improved road will lead to an
increase in the traffic and revenue of the railroad, as
respects freight moving in car-load lots and passengers
travelling considerable distances, but that the benefit from
this will be cut down by a substantial loss in local freight
and passenger traffic attracted to motor-driven vehicles
moving over the improved road. That such a loss in local
traffic usually ensues when hard-surface roads adapted to
use by motor-driven vehicles are constructed practically
parallel to railroads is not only shown by the testimony
but is common knowledge. It received distinct recognition in the President's message of December 8, 1922, to
Congress.
We think it also appears from the testimony that the
increase in revenue reasonably to be expected will be
greater than the loss, but that the excess will not be such
as to justify an assessment of benefits of $75,686.00 or
more than a small fraction of that sum. Indeed, on the
present showing, we should regard an assessment in excess of $15,000.00 as passing the outside limit of reasonable judgment and plainly arbitrary.
Our conclusion is that the assessment against the railroad is unreasonably discriminatory in so far as it is
based on personal property, and in this respect violates
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and that it is otherwise so excessive as to be a manifestly
arbitrary exaction and in violation of the due process
of law clause of the same amendment. In these respects
the finding and holding below are well grounded.
It follows that the present assessment is invalid and
an injunction should be granted against its enforcement.
The District Court so decreed. But as, on the present
showing, it appears that an assessment of some benefits-

