UNITED STATES v. -INT. HARVESTER CO. 693
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES' v. INTERNATIONAL

HARVESTER COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE IUNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 254. Argued October 26, 1926M-Decided June 6, 1927.
1. In a suit under the Anti-Trust Act, against a corporation, which
had combined others engaged separately in interstate trade
in harvesting machines, a consent decree was entered requiring the
defendant to limit its sales agencies and dispose of some of its lines
to independent manufacturers, the decree declaring that the object
to be attained under its terms was to restore competitive conditions,
and providing that, in the event that such conditions should not
have been established at the expiration of a specified period, the
United States should have the right to such further relief in the
case as should be necessary to restore them and to bring about
a situation in harmony with law. The requirements having been
complied with and lawful competitive conditions established,
Held that to construe the decree as nevertheless entitling the
United States to further relief by division of the defendant into
separate and distinct corporations for the purpose of restoring the
competitive conditions that existed sixteen years before the entry
of the consent decree would be repugnant to the agreement embodied in the decree, which had become binding on all parties and
upon which the defendant was entitled to rely. P. 702.
2. Statements in a report of the Federal Trade Commission to the
Senate based upon an ex parte investigation, are not in themselves
substantive evidence in a subsequent suit by the Government under
the Anti-Trust Act. P. 703.
3. From the evidence the Court finds that competitive conditions in
the trade in harvesting machines have been established in compliance with the consent decree herein. P. 704.
4. The law does not make the mere size of a corporation, or the
existence of unexerted power on its part, an offense, when unaccompanied by unlawful conduct in the exercise of its power. P. 708.
5. The fact that competitors may see proper, in the exercise of their
own judgment, to follow the prices of another manufacturer, does
not establish any suppression of competition or show any sinister
domination. P. 708.
10 F. (2d) 827, affirmed.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a supplemental petition of the United States for relief in
addition to that granted by an earlier decree in a suit
under the Anti-Trust Act. See 214 Fed. 987.

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mary G. Connor, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. William S. Elliott, with whom Messrs. Frank H.
Scott and Victor A. Remy were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JuSTIcE SANFOpD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a direct appeal, under § 238 of the Judicial
Code as amended by the Jurisdictional Act of 1925,1 from
a final decree of the District Court-specially constituted
under the Expediting Act' and composed of three Circuit Judges-dismissing a supplemental petition of the
United States to, obtain further relief in addition to
that granted by an earlier decree in the same case.
In the original petition, which was filed in 1912, the
United States alleged that the International Harvester
Company 3 -hereinafter referred to as the International
Company-and other defendants were engaged in a combination restraining interstate trade and commerce in
harvesting machines and other agricultural implements
and monopolizing such trade in violation of the AntiTrust Act; 4 that the International Company had been
343 Stat. 936, c. 229, § 1.
2 32 Stat. 823, c. 544; amended, 36 Stat. 854, c. 428.
3 This name is used in the decrees and briefs as including both the
original defendant and a new company of the same name, which took
over in 1918 the property and business of the original company, and
entered its appearance in the case as a defendant.
4 26 Stat. 209, c. 647; U. S. C., Tit. 15, § 1, et seq.

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 695
693

Opinion of the Court.

formed by certain of the other defendants in 1902, with
a capital stock of $120,000,000, for the purpose of combining five separate companies then manufacturing and
selling harvesting machinery, whose aggregate output
exceeded 85 per cent. of such machinery produced and
sold in the United States, and thereby eliminating competition between these companies, restraining and monopolizing the interstate trade in such machinery, and
promoting a similar monopoly in other agricultural implements; that in pursuance of such purpose the International Company acquired in 1902 the entire property
and business of these five companies; that it thereafter
acquired the property and business of various competitors and the control of steel, coal and other subsidiary
companies, added all other classes of agricultural implements to its lines, used various unfair trade methods and
practices to destroy its competitors, closed the opportunities for new competitors in all lines of agricultural
implements, and advanced the price of harvesting machinery; and that it was then producing at least 90 per
cent.- of the grain binders and 75 per cent. of the mowers
produced and sold in the United States, and over 30 per
cent. of all agricultural implements other than harvesting
machinery.
After an extended hearing on the merits, the District
Court held-one judge dissenting-that although it was
not shown that there had been any unfair or unjust treatment by the International Company of its competitors
and there was nothing in the history of its expanding
lines which should be condemned, it had been, from its
beginning in 1902, and then was, a combination violating
the Anti-Trust Act, suppressing competition between the
five original companies and directly tending to a monopoly, a condition that had been accentuated by its subsequent acquisition of competing plants and subsidiary
companies; and that the entire combination and monop-

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

oly should be dissolved. 214 Fed. 987. By the decree
as originally entered in August, 1914, it was "adjudged
and decreed that said combination and monopoly be forever dissolved and to the end that the business and assets
of the International Harvester Company be separated
and divided among at least three substantially equal,
separate, distinct, and independent corporations with
wholly separate owners and stockholders," and that the
defendants submit a plan of such separation for the consideration of the court; and jurisdiction was retained to
make such additional decrees as might be necessary to
secure the final dissolution of the combination and monopoly. This was subsequently modified by a decree
entered in October, 1914, by which, pursuant to an agreement with the Attorney General of the United States, the
provision requiring the business and assets of the International Company to be separated and divided among at
least three distinct corporations was stricken out, and a
provision was substituted requiring that its business and
assets "be divided in such manner and into such number
of parts of separate and distinct ownership as may be
necessary to restore competitive conditions and bring
about a new situation in harmony with law."
The defendants appealed from the final decree to this
Court; but, before the case had been decided, dismissed
their appeal, pursuant to an agreement between the parties. And after the case had been remanded to the District Court, upon a stipulation signed by the Attorney
General of the United States and the solicitors for the
defendants, a consent decree was entered therein, on November 2, 1918, which, after reinstating the former decree as modified, recited that, "the parties having agreed
upon and submitted to the court a plan for carrying into
effect the order contained in said decree that the combination and monopoly therein adjudged unlawful be dis-

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 697
693

Opinion of the Court.

solved, and the court having considered and approved
the plan, it is further ordered, in accordance therewith,
as follows": (a) The International Company is prohibited and enjoined from having more than one representative or agent in any city or town for the sale of harvesting machines and other agricultural implements; (b)
It shall offer for sale to responsible manufacturers of agricultural implements, the harvesting machine lines made
and sold by it under the trade names of Osborne, Milwaukee, and Champion, respectively, with the equipment
specially used in their manufacture, and accept a reasonable price from any purchaser approved by the United
States; (c) It shall also endeavor to sell in connection
with said harvester lines the Champion and Osborne harvester plants, and accept a reasonable price therefor from
the purchasers of said harvester lines; (d) If any of said
harvester lines, including plant, etc., shall not have been
sold within one year after the close of the existing war,
then, upon request of the United States, the same shall
be sold at public auction; (e) "The object to be attained
under the terms of this decree is to restore competitive
conditions in the United States in the interstate business
in harvesting machines and other agricultural implements,
and, in the event that such competitive conditions shall
not have been established at the expiration of eighteen
months after the termination of the existing war .
then and in that case the United States shall have the
right to such further relief herein as shall be necessary
to restore said competitive conditions and to bring about
a situation in harmony with law; and this court reserves
all necessary jurisdiction and power to carry into effect
the provisions of the decrees herein entered."
Thereafter, in 1920, after a hearing upon evidence, the
court entered an order adjudging and decreeing, the
United States consenting thereto, that the decree of 1918,

698

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

properly interpreted, did not require the International
Company to offer for sale the Champion and Osborne
harvester plants except in connection with sales of the
respective harvester lines; and further adjudging and decreeing that inasmuch as the International Company had,
pursuant to the provisions of said decree, "duly sold"
the Champion and Osborne harvester lines to companies
which did not desire to purchase the respective plants,
the latter were not subject to sale under the provisions
of said decree.
In July, 1923, more than eighteen months after the termination of the war, the United States filed in the District Court the supplemental petition here involved, for
the purpose, as stated, of securing, in accordance with
clause (e) of the decree of November 2, 1918, such further relief as should be "necessary to restore competitive
conditions in interstate business in harvesting machines
and other agricultural implements, and bring about a
situation in harmony with law." This petition alleged
that the output and sales of the Champion, Osborne and
Milwaukee harvesting lines which the International Company had been required to sell under that decree, constituted such a small part of its total output and sales and
such a negligible part of the total trade in harvesting machines in the United States, that the decree was inadequate to accomplish its declared purpose; that the sale
of the Osborne and Champion lines had had little or no
effect upon competitive conditions; that, although the
Milwaukee line had not been sold, the United States had
not requested its sale at public auction under clause (d)
of the decree, as its separation could have no appreciable
effect on competition; that the International Company's
control of interstate trade in harvesting machines had
increased from 1918 to 1922; that the number of independent manufacturers of harvesting machines was steadily
shrinking, due to their inability to compete with the In:-

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 699
693

Opinion of the Court.

ternational Company, which, with its large capital, credit,
resources, profitable side lines and subsidiaries, was enabled, particularly in times of depression, to sell its harvesting machines at cost, generally lower than that of its
competitors, and thus effectually eliminate competition
and monopolize the business; that it had used its power
in this manner, particularly since the decree of 1918, for
the purpose and with the effect of restraining and monopolizing trade in harvesting machines by compelling its
competitors to cease their manufacture and sale; and that
unless the combination and monopoly that had been
found to exist should be effectively dissolved by dividing
the International Company into at least three separate
concerns, its monopolistic control would increase and become complete.
The petition prayed that the court adjudge and decree
that the International Company still was a combination
and monopoly restraining interstate trade in harvesting
machinery; that the decree of 1918 was inadequate to
achieve its declared purpose and the United States was
entitled to the further relief necessary to restore competitive conditions and bring about a situation in harmony
with law; and that the business and assets of the International Company "be separated and divided among at
least three separate, distinct and independent corporations of wholly separate owners, stockholders and managers, substantially as suggested by the Federal Trade
Commission in its report to the Senate dated May 4,
1920," which was filed as an exhibit to the petition.
The report thus referred to had been made pursuant
to a Senate Resolution of May, 1918, directing the Federal Trade Colnnission to investigate the causes for the
high prices of agricultural implements, and any restraint
of trade therein. The Commission had made an ex parte
investigation, covering mainly the period from 1913 to
1918, and based largely upon data furnished by various

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

manufacturers of agricultural implements concerning
their costs, profits, etc., the results of which were tabulated by its accountants, partly in connection with a previous report that had been made by the former Bureau
of Corporations. In this report-made only a year and
a half after the entry of the consent decree of 1918 and
before the war had terminated-the Commission had expressed the opinion that this decree would fail of its
purpose to restore competitive conditions and that further steps were necessary to secure its object; and had
recommended that the business and assets of the International Company be divided among three new companies as therein outlined. A copy of this report had
also been transmitted to the Attorney General; and thereafter the Government, adopting the recommendation of
the Commission, filed this supplemental petition.
The petition was answered; an examiner appointed and
evidence taken in 1924. In March of that year, as shown
by the evidence, the International Company sold its Milwaukee line of harvesting machines, subject to the approval.of the Attorney General or the court.
At the hearing, in 1925, the District Court found that
the International Company had complied with the requirements of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of the decree
of 1918, and, without attempting to recite the evidence'
on the disputed questions of fact arising under the Government's application for further relief under clause (e),
stated its conclusions-two judges concurring-as follows: "The evidence in this case has convinced, not only
that it fails to prove by a fair, or, any, preponderance
thereof that the International Harvester Company, since
the sale of the 'Osborne,' ' Milwaukee,' and 'Champion'
lines and their appurtenances, has been or is unduly or
5

This, which consisted of "many volumes," as condensed in the
record in this Court, including tabulated statements and other documentary exhibits, covers about 600 printed pages.

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 701
693

Opinion of the Court.

unreasonably monopolizing or restraining interstate commerce in harvesting machines or their appurtenances in
the United States; but in our opinion it conclusively
proves that it has not done and is not doing so, that competition in the manufacture and, sale of harvesting machines and their appurtenances in interstate commerce
in the United States has been and is free and untrammeled, that the percentage of all such machines that were
made and sold by the International Harvester Company
has decreased from about 85 per ceiit, iM 1902, to about
64 per cent. at the time of the decree of ' November 2,
1918, and ever since that powerful and successful indepenctent competitors of the Harvester Company contest
the field with it, and that in their presence it cannot and
does not control or dictate the prices of the harvesting
machines and their appurtenances which it and its competitors make and sell, that the prices of its machines
and appurtenances to the dealers, and to the farmers who
use them, in proportion to their costs, have decreased
and are low. The purpose of preventing undue restraint
of trade is to prevent unreasonably high prices to the purchasers and users of the articles traded in. The evidence
in this case satisfies us that these objects have been successfully attained under the decree of November 2, 1918,
the defendant's compliance with its requirements, and
their conduct of their interstate commerce in harvesting
machines and their appurtenances since the rendition of
that decree." From these conclusions the third judge
dissented, upon the ground that the evidence convinced
him that the decree of 1918 had entirely failed to restore
genuine competitive conditions; that the International
Company had such advantages in resources, organization, selling mediums, production costs, manufacture of
raw material, and volume and -spread of business, as to
be able completely to domingte the trade in harvesting
machines; and that it did so control and dominate by

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

regulating prices, fixing the prices for its own machines,
by which the other manufacturers were prudently governed. 10 F. (2d) 827. A decree was thereupon entered
dismissing the supplemental petition.
It is clear that the charges of the supplemental petition
relate solely to the interstate trade in harvesting machines, and that no issue is involved as to the other lines
of agricultural implements. As to this the parties agree;
the Government specifically stating in its brief that this
proceeding has to do only with an unlawful combination in harvesting machines."
The basic contention of the Government here is that
the declared purpose of the decree of 1918 was to rstore
competitive conditions in the harvesting machine industry substantially as they had existed in 1902 before
the International Company was formed by the combination of the five original companies, that is, to so increase
the amount of competition and the number of competitors as to restore, in a "quantitative" sense, "the free
and open competition which existed when the combination was formed "; and that therefore the sole test to be
applied in determining whether the decree has accomplished its purpose, is whether it "has had the effect
actually to restore in the harvesting machine industry
the competitive conditions which obtained prior to 1902."
We cannot sustain this contention. This is entirely inconsistent with the purpose of the consent decree, both as
appears from its terms and as it was apparently construed
by the District Court itself. Its plain and evident purpose was to substitute for the requirement in the previous
decrees that the International Company be divided into
separate and distinct corporations, the requirements that,
in order to establish "competitive conditions" bringing
about "a situation in harmony with law," the International Company should limit its sales agency in any town
or city to a single representative, and should sell three of

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 703
693

Opinion of the Court.

its harvesting machine lines to independent manufacturers of agricultural implements; and to give the United
States the right to further relief only "in the event"
that within eighteen months after the termination of the
war such competitive conditions had not been established. And a construction of this decree by which,
although its requirements have been fully complied, with
and lawful competitive conditions established, the United
States would nevertheless be entitled to further relief by
the division of the International Company into separate
and distinct corporations for the purpose of restoring the
actual competitive conditions that had existed sixteen
years before the entry of the consent decree, would
plainly be repugnant to the agreement approved by the
court and embodied in the decree, which has become
binding upon all parties, and upon which the International Company has, in the exercise of good faith, been
entitled to rely.
In support of its alternative contention that competitive conditions have not been established bringing about
a situation in harmony with law, the Government relies
in large measure upon various statements and tabulations contained in the report of the Federal Trade Commission, which was introduced in evidence over the objection of the International Company. But it is entirely
plain that to treat the statements in this report-based
upon an ex parte investigation and formulated in the
manner hereinabove set forth-as constituting in themselves substantive evidence upon the questions of fact
here involved, violates the fundamental rules of evidence
entitling the parties to a trial of issues of fact, not upon
hearsay, but upon the testimony of persons having first
hand knowledge of the facts, who are produced as witnesses and are subject to the test of cross-examination.
And no support for the Government's contention in this
respect is afforded by Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen,

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

262 U. S. 1, 13, 37, in which the reference to statements
that had been made by the Federal Trade Commission
in a report to the President prior to the passage of the
Act of Congress whose constitutional validity was involved, was solely as an aid in determining whether this
Court was warranted in rejecting as unreasonable a finding that had been made by Congress as to the necessity
for the Act.
Without entering into a detailed statement of the evidence-which is so voluminous as to render this impracticable-we find, from the greater weight of the competent testimony, that competitive conditions in the trade
in harvesting machines have been established in compliance with the requirements of the consent decree.
In the course of a general development that had taken
place in the agricultural industry since 1902, the International Company and many of its principal competitors
had extended their lines from implements used in particular seasons, such as harvesting machines, plows and seeders, and had become in 1918, when the consent decree was
entered, "long-line" year-round companies, manufacturing and selling full lines of agricultural implements. This
had led to cheaper production and distribution; and, the
sale of one line helping to sell the others, had brought
about a change in competitive conditions affecting generally all their lines. In distributing their products
they had also generally adopted the plan of selling their
implements to local retail dealers, who resold them to
farmers; and these dealers had become, through their
personal efficiency and the good will and the friendly relations which they had established with the farmers, factors of prime importance in distributing the implements
of the different companies. Prior to 1912 the International Company had also adopted the general policy,
when there was more than one implement dealer in any
town, of distributing its various lines, especially its Mc-

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO.
693

705.

Opinion of the Court.

Cormick and Deering harvesting machines, among different dealers; and by means of "exclusive" contracts made
with such dealers, its competitors were frequently prevented from acquiring any adequate retail outlet for their
implements. This was one of the practices which the
Government had assailed in its original petition. Furthermore, as the International Company-having five different lines of harvesting machines, which were necessarily somewhat in competition among themselves-had laid
chief stress upon its McCormick and Deering lines, the
sales of its Champion, Osborne and Milwaukee lines,
which were frequently combined in the hands of one
dealer, had proportionately decreased; so that these three
lines furnished in 1918 a comparatively small part of its
harvesting machine business. This, however, was by no
means negligible; and these three lines, which had been
improved and kept up to date, still retained a well established reputation and a capacity for effective development.
In this situation the consent decree provided, as the
means of establishing the competitive conditions which
it sought to bring about, that the International Company
should be limited to one sales representative in any town
or city, and should sell its Champion, Osborne and Milwaukee harvesting lines to independent manufacturers
of agricultural implements.
The International Company complied immediately
with the single-dealer requirement in clause (a) of the
consent decree. This has caused a drastic limitation upon
its method of distribution, to which none of its competitors have been subjected. By such compliance it lost the
services of almost 5,000 dealers, to whom it had sold in
the preceding year implements to the amount of more
than $17,000,000. Many of these were taken over by its
competitors, who acquired the benefit of their experience,
good will and standing among the farmers. It was also
compelled to place its McCormick and Deering harvest55514°-28--45

706

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ing lines, which usually had been handled by two dealers,
with one of these dealers, who had developed a business in
only one of them and was placed at a great disadvantage
in handling them together; a difficulty which it has
sought to overcome as far as possible by combining its
McCormick and Deering lines into a new harvesting line
that it has been attempting to introduce in the American
market in place of the two separate lines. Further, being
limited to one dealer in a town, and having its own tractor
to sell in competition with the Fordson tractor, it has not
been in a position to place its implements with Ford dealers, who have been available to its competitors as new and
favorable outlets for their iniplements. And, in general,
it clearly appears that the single-dealer limitation in the
consent decree has greatly enlarged the field of activity
of its competitors, and has proved to be, as had been
anticipated, an effective means of providing competitive
conditions.6
The International Company also complied with the requirements of clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the consent
decree by selling its Champion, Osborne and Milwaukee
harvesting lines to independent manufacturers of agricultural implements.7
6

Thus, the Vice President and sales manager of Deere & Co., a
leading competitor, testified: "After the decree by which the Harvester Company was prevented from having more than one dealer
in a town, a great many dealers who had formerly sold Deere plows
and McCormick or Deering harvesters, and to whom we had been
unable to sell our harvester line, took on the John Deere harvester
line."-" my idea is that whoever made the provision that the Harvester Company should confine its operations to one dealer in a town
struck the crux of the whole situation."-" we know positively that
with the Harvester Company confined to one dealer in a town we
can compete with them."
7 The cause of the delay in selling the Milwaukee line is fully
explained in the testimony; and the Government makes no complaint in regard thereto.

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 707
693

Opinion of the Court.

The purchasers-B. F. Avery & Son, the EmersonBrantingham Company, and the Moline Plow Companyare old-established and well-known companies, and
among the largest manufacturers of implements in the
United States. The acquisition of these established lines
of harvesting machinery, filling out and strengthening
their other implement lines, has greatly increased their
competitive strength as long-line companies. And although there was from 1921 to 1923 a period of great
depression in the agricultural implement industry, corresponding to the general depression in agricultural conditions, which made it difficult to launch new lines and
develop new business, the officers of each of these companies testified as to their entire satisfaction with their
new lines, the resulting increase in their competitive
ability, and their confidence that with the resumption of
better conditions in the industry they would be able to
compete energetically and successfully with the International Company in the harvesting machine business.
And we cannot doubt, upon the entire evidence, that the
provision of the consent decree by which these three
established harvesting lines were taken away from the
International Company, in whose hands they had not
been developed, and transferred to the purchasing companies, whose long lines were filled out and strengthened,
has constituted and will constitute in progressive degree,
as the agricultural depression ceases, an effective means
of increasing the competition in harvesting machinery as
contemplated by that decree.
It does not appear that since the entry of the consent
decree the International Company has used its capital
and resources-which, although much larger than those
of any single competitor, are but little larger than the
aggregate capital and resources of all its competitors, and
are in large part employed in its foreign trade-its subsidiary companies or incidental advantages, for the pur-

708

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

pose or with the effect of restraining and suppressing the
interstate trade in harvesting machinery; that it has at
any time reduced the prices of harvesting machines below cost, for the purpose of driving out its competitors;
or that it has at any time controlled and dominated the
trade in harvesting machinery by the regulation of prices.
It is true that in 1921 and 1922, the period of acute depression in the agricultural implement industry-due
chiefly to the depressed agricultural conditions and the
diminished purchasing power of the farmers--not only
the International Company but its competitors, in a
movement initiated by the leading manufacturer of plows,
for the purpose primarily of disposing of the surplus
stocks which they had accumulated during the war
period under high cost conditions, and as a necessary measure of self-protection, made generally material reductions
in the prices of harvesting machines and other implements. But the International Company did not at any
time reduce its prices below replacement cost; and its
reduction in prices was not intended to eliminate competition and has not had that effect. It has not, either during those two years or since, attempted to dominate or
in fact controlled or dominated the harvesting machinery
industry by the compulsory regulation of prices. The
most that can be said as to this, is that many of its competitors have been accustomed, independently and as a
matter of business expediency, to follow approximately
the prices at which it has sold its harvesting machines;
but one of its competitors has habitually sold its machines at somewhat higher prices. The law, however,
does not make the mere size of a corporation, however
impressive, or the existence of unexerted power on its
part, an offense, when unaccompanied by unlawful conduct in the exercise of its power. United States v. Steel
Corporation,251 U. S. 417, 451. And the fact that competitors may see proper, in the exercise of their own judg-

UNITED STATES v. INT. HARVESTER CO. 709
693

Opinion of the Court.

ment, to follow the prices of another manufacturer, does
not establish any suppression of competition or show any
sinister domination. United States v. Steel Corporation,
supra, 448. And see Cement Mfg. Protective Assoc'n v.
United States, 268 U. S. 588, 606.
We further find that while several of the competitors
of the International Company in harvesting machines
have retired from business since 1911, some during the
period of depression commencing in 1921, these retirements were not due to inability to compete with the International Company, but to other causes for which it
was in no way responsible; that the place of these retiring competitors has been taken by other and stronger
competitors; and that in 1923 it not only had as many
competitors in harvesting machines as in 1911, but competitors of greater strength and competitive efficiency.
We also find that the International Company's percentage of the interstate trade in harvesting machinery
is not shown to have increased since 1918, as the Government alleged; but, on the contrary, appears to have
already decreased. The evidence does not show with any
definiteness the percentage of the International Company's trade in such machinery in 1918. This, as alleged
in the supplemental petition, had been approximately 77
per cent. in 1911, the year before the original petition
was filed. And the Government's own tabulations show
that while in 1919, the year after the consent decree was
entered, the International Company sold 66.6 per cent.
of all the harvesting machines sold in the United States,
in 1923 its percentage was only 64.1 per cent. We need
not determine the disputed question whether, as the International Company contends, there had been in fact a
larger decrease.
And, finally, the testimony, practically uncontradicted,
of a great number of witnesses, including officers of competitive companies, competitive retail dealers who had

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

handled the International Company's lines before the
single-dealer requirement was put into effect, and the
officers of farmers associations, leaves no room to doubt
that since the entry of the decree of 1918, there had been
established, and then existed, a free, untrammeled, keen
and effective competition in harvesting machinery that
was in no wise restrained or suppressed by the International Company.
We conclude that not only has the International Company complied with the specific requirements of the consent decree, but that competitive conditions have been
established in the interstate trade in harvesting machinery bringing about "a situation in harmony with law."
The decree of the District Court dismissing the supplemental petition, is therefore

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
determination of this cause.

