OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

410

Opinion of the Court.

POSADOS, COLLECTOR,

ET AL.

274 U. S.

v. CITY OF MANILA.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 363. Argued April 28, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. The duty of the Collector of Internal Revenue of the Philippines
to issue, and of the Insular Auditor to countersign, a warrant to
the City of Manila for the share of internal revenue receipts assigned to it by the Administrative Act of 1917, is mandatory and
(in the absence of any uncertainty as to the amount of the collections,) ministerial, and enforceable by mandamus. P. 415.
2. Whatever the powers of the Auditor over settlement of accounts
between the City and the Metropolitan Water Board, they do not
authorize him to direct that the Collector withhold money from the
City's share of internal revenue collections, to pay a claim of the
Board for water used by the city government. P. 416.
-

P. I. -

, affirmed.

CERTIORARI

(271 U. S. 658) to a judgment of the Su-

preme Court of the Philippine Islands, in an original
proceeding, granting a writ of mandamus requiring the
Collector of Internal Revenue to issue, and the Insular
Auditor to countersign, warrants for moneys due the City
out of receipts from internal revenue taxes.
Messrs. 0. R. McGuire, pro hac vice, and William C.
Rigby, with whom Messrs. L. Hedrick and Delfin Jaranilla were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Guillermo B. Guevara, with whom Messrs. F. W.
Clements, Lawrence H. Cake, and Alexander Britton were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a suit begun by an original petition in the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands under § 2947

POSADOS v. MANILA.
410

411

Opinion of the Court.

of the Compiled Acts of the Philippine Commission, 1907,
praying for an original writ of mandamus directed to
Juan Posados, Jr., Collector of Internal Revenue of the
Islands and of Manila, and to Benjamin F. Wright, Insular Auditor, requiring the Collector to issue warrants
payable to the City of Manila for the share of the internal revenue taxes collected by him due to the City
under the statutory law, and requiring the Auditor to
countersign those warrants. In furtherance of the main
prayer there was a prayer for a temporary injunction
against the issue and countersigning of warrants for a
part of such receipts in favor of the Metropolitan Water
District. The Metropolitan Water District and the Insular Treasurer were also made parties. The Supreme
Court, after answers and hearing, granted the prayer for
mandamus against the Collector and Auditor.
The substance of the controversy is this: The City of
Manila under Spain owned the water works furnishing
water to the city for a great many years; and, since the
United States became the sovereign in the Islands, the
City, created a municipal corporation by the present Philippine government, chapter 60, Title X of the Philippine
Administrative Code No. 2711, was authorized to issue
bonds for $2,000,000 to enlarge and improve them.
March 6, 1919, the Legislature of the Philippine Islands
passed a law creating a Metropolitan Water District for
the City and neighboring territory (Act No. 2832), made
it a corporation governed by directors and turned over the
works to its management. A dispute has arisen as to
whether the City of Manila should pay to the Metropolitan Water District compensation for water used by
the city government. The authorities of the City of Manila contend that the City is not liable, because the water
works are and have been its property for centuries. The
issue was considered by the Metropolitan Water District
Board and a majority of the Board reached the conclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

sion that there was no money due from the City for the
water paid. The Governor General has appellate administrative jurisdiction over the decisions and resolutions
of the Board-Act 3109-and he took the view of the minority of the Board and held that the City did owe the
Metropolitan District for the water furnished it. The
City was not a party to this proceeding. In accord with
the conclusion of the Governor General, the Insular Auditor directed the Collector of Internal Revenue to withhold from the City's share of the internal revenue collections money enough to pay what was due for the water,
and directed the Collector to issue his warrant for that
amount from the share of the City in the internal revenue collections in enforcement of the claim of the Metropolitan Board for the amount due.
Section 3 of the Organic Act of the Philippine Islands,
known as the Jones Law, 39 Stat. 545, c. 416, directs that
no money shall be paid out of the treasury except in pursuance of an appropriation by law; that all money collected on any tax. levied or assessed for a special purpose
shall be treated as a special fund in the treasury and paid
out for such purpose only.
By § 8 of the same act the general legislative power,
except as therein otherwise provided, was granted to the
Philippine Legislature, authorized by the Act.
The Jones Act describes the duties of the Insular Auditor as follows:
Section 24. "That there shall be appointed by the
President an auditor, who shall examine, audit, and settle
all accounts pertaining to the revenues and receipts from
whatever source of the Philippine government and of the
provincial and municipal governments of the Philippines,
including trust funds and funds derived from bond issues;
and audit, in accordance with law and administrative
regulations, all expenditures of funds or property pertaining to or held in trust by the government or the Provinces

POSADOS v. MANILA.
410

413

Opinion of the Court.

or municipalities thereof. He shall perform a like duty
with respect to all government branches.
"The decisions of the auditor shall be final and conclusive upon the executive branches of the government, except that appeal therefrom may be taken by the party
aggrieved or the head of the department concerned within
one year, in the manner hereinafter prescribed."
Section 25 of the same Act provides:
" That any person aggrieved by the action or decision
of the auditor in the settlement of his account or claim
may, within one year, take an appeal in writing to the
Governor General. . . . If the Governor General shall
confirm the action of the auditor, he shall so indorse the
appeal and transmit it to the auditor, and the action shall
thereupon be final and conclusive. Should the Governor
General fail to sustaim the action of the auditor, he shall
forthwith transmit his grounds of disapproval to the
Secretary of War, . . . [whose] decision is final and conclusive."
By § 588 of the Administration Act of 1917, as amended
by Act No. 3066 adopted after the passage of the Jones
Act, it is provided that the Insular Auditor shall have
the power to authorize and enforce the settlement of
accounts subsisting between the different bureaus or
offices of the Insular service; between such bureau or
office and any provincial, municipal, or city government;
between provincial governments; between municipal or
city governments and between any such provincial and
municipal or city governments.
The contention on behalf of the Insular Auditor is
that the City of Manila, on the one hand, and the Metropolitan Water Board, on the other, are branches of the
Insular Government, and that by virtue of the foregoing
statutes he is given authority to settle accounts between
them, and that his decision is final and conclusive upon
such executive branches, with the appeal provided as

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

above stated. He maintains that this gives him the authority to decide as between the Metropolitan Water
Board and the City of Manila, whether the city should
pay the water board for the water furnished it because
it is necessarily involved in the settlement of accounts
between the two corporations and branches of the insular government, that having decided that the money was
due for the water furnished from the City to the Metropolitan Board, he is further charged by § 588 of the
Administrative Code with the duty of enforcing that decision and settlement. He may, therefore, he says, direct
the Collector of Internal Revenue to issue a warrant for
such share of the City in the internal revenue collections
as may be enough to pay the debt owing from the City to
the Water Board, and that this is a necessary implication
from his power by law to enforce such settlement.
The disposition of the internal revenue receipts is provided by the Administrative Act in the following sections:
"SEC. 490. Disposition of internal revenue in general.-Internal revenue collected under the laws of the
Philippine Islands and not applied as hereinabove provided or otherwise specially disposed of by law shall accrue to the Insular Treasury and shall be available for
the general purposes of the Government, with the exception of the amounts set apart by way of allotment under
the next succeeding section.
"SEc. 491. Allotments of internal revenue for special
purposes.-Of the internal revenue accruing to the Insular Treasury under the preceding section there shall
be set apart ten per centum as a provincial allotment, ten
per centum as a road and bridge allotment, and twenty
per centum as a municipal allotment, but the amounts allotted to said several purposes during any year shall not
be greater than the amount allotted for the same purposes during the fiscal year nineteen hundred and nine.

POSADOS v. MANILA.
410

415

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 492. Appointments and use of provincial allotment.-The provincial allotment shall be apportioned to
the treasuries of the several respective provinces and shall
there accrue to their general funds, respectively.
"SEC. 494. Apportionment and use of municipal allot-

ment.--The municipal allotment shall be for the benefit
of the inhabitants of the Islands in the purview of their
community requirements, being available for municipal
or other use as hereinbelow provided.
"SEC. 495. . . . The city of Manila shall receive
the shares which it would receive if it were both a municipality and a regularly organized province, and for the
purposes hereof shall be deemed to be both the one and
the other.
"SEC. 497. Warrants for quarterly payments of allot-

ments.-The payment of the internal-revenue allotments
shall be made from the Insular Treasury quarterly upon
warrants drawn by the Collector of Internal Revenue."
It is apparent from reading the foregoing sections that
they are directions by statutory law as to the distribution
of the collections made by the Internal Revenue Collector,
and that the share to be paid to the City of Manila is
fixed thereby and the exact figure can be ascertained
mathematically. This requires no exercise of discretion,
judicial or otherwise, after the total amount of the internal
revenue receipts are known.; and in this case there is no
dispute as to that amount. It becomes the ministerial
duty of the Internal Revenue Collector to draw his warrant for the share of the City thus fixed by statute. It
becomes the duty of the Insular Auditor, when such a
warrant of the Internal Revenue Collector is presented
to him, after ascertaining that the amount for which it is
drawn is in accord with the directions of the statute, to

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

countersign the same. Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet.
524; Wright v. Ynchausti, 272 U. S. 640, 651, 652.
No matter what the power of the Auditor may prove
to be with reference to the settlement of accounts as between the City of Manila and the Metropolitan Water
Board, or what his power with reference to enforcing the
settlement so reached by him, nothing in the laws of the
Islands is disclosed to us which enables the Auditor in
the enforcement of such settlements to dispense with or
to suspend the operation of positive law in reference to
the course which shall be followed in the disposition by
the Internal Revenue Collector of the receipts from internal revenue collections which he is directed by the statute to pay to the City. His duty is clearly set forth and
he has nothing to do but to comply with it, having ascertained exactly what the share of the City is under the
foregoing provisions.
When this share comes to the City under the warrant
to be drawn in its favor by the Collector, the question of
what shall thereafter be done in respect to it is not a
matter that we are called upon to consider. Whether
the issue between the Metropolitan Water Board and
the City of Manila, in the absence of agreement, is one
that must then be decided by a suit in court brought by
the Metropolitan Water Board against the City, asking
for a judgment for the water used, or whether the issue
is to be determined by the Insular Auditor in his asserted
power of settling and enforcing accounts between the two
branches of the Government, are issues not before us.
The only question here is what should be done with the
share of the collections made by the Internal Revenue
Collector under the sections of the Administrative Code
already quoted. By § 2442 of the Laws of the Philippines relating to the City of Manila, there is a provision
for a permanent continuing appropriation during the time
the City remains the capital of the Islands from any

