CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. U. S.
23

Syllabus.

public domain and thereby precluding the subsequent
entry attempted to be made by Dickson. Holt v. Murphy,
207 U. S. 407, 412. And since Dickson's right to relief
rests entirely upon his contention to the contrary, which
the state court upheld, the decree of that court must be
Reversed.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTH3ERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 190. Argued March 4, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in a proceeding
to fix reasonable maximum rail-and-water rates, and purporting
to do this by adopting the existing all-rail rates with a fixed
differential, (alleged by complainant to represent the cost of water
transportation insurance,) should not be construed as an attempt
to equalize the two classes of rates merely because of its form or
by laying undue stress upon recitals in the report. P. 32.
2. If the determination of the Commission finds substantial support
in the evidence, the courts will not weigh the evidence nor consider the wisdom" of the Commission's action. P. 33.
3. Under the Panama Canal Act, August 24, 1912, par. 13 of § 6,
read with par. 4 of § 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act, and the
Transportation Act, the Commission has power to require a rail
carrier to embrace in a through rail-and-water route less than the
entire length of its railroad lying between the termini of the
through route proposed, irrespective of whether both rail and water
"are used under a common control, management, or arrangement
for a continuous carriage or shipment," Interstate Com. Act § 1.
P. 34.
4. The right of the Commission to consider a case under a particular
provision of the statute depends on the facts alleged and not on
such provision's being formally referred to in the complaint.
P. 36.
5. To plead the law relied on, is no more necessary in a proceeding
before the Commission than it is in a judicial proceeding. P. 36.
5 F. (2d) 888, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit by the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
and St. Louis-San Francisco Railway Companies to enjoin enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission establishing joint rail-and-water and rail-andwater-and-rail rates on cotton.

Mr. A. B. Enoch, with whom Messrs. M. L. Bell, W. F.
Dickinson, T. P. Littlepage, and M. G. Roberts were on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. R. C. Fulbright for the Houston Cotton Exchange
and Board of Trade, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to annul, and enjoin the enforcement of,
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing joint rail-and-water and rail-water-and-rail rates
(both hereinafter designated as rail-and-water rates) on
cotton from points in Oklahoma, via Galveston and certain steamship lines, to New England destinations. The
complaint before the commission was brought by the
Houston Cotton Exchange and Board of Trade and other
similar organizations against appellants and a number of
other carriers, to have prescribed and established just
and reasonable joint through rates on cotton from Oklahoma points through Texas ports to various points of
destination in the northeastern part of the United States
and Canada, including New England territory. The

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. U. S.
29

Opinion of the Court.

modified final order of the commission required appellants to establish and maintain for the transportation of
cotton from Oklahoma points, via Galveston and the
lines of the Mallory Steamship Company and the
Southern Pacific Company-Atlantic Steamship Lines,
to destinations in New England territory, joint rail-andwater rates not exceeding "rates 4 cents per 100 pounds
lower than the present all-rail rates from and to the
same points,"-not, however, lower than $1.50 per 100
pounds. Prior to the commission's order, no joint railand-water rates on cotton were in effect between the
points mentioned. The rate to New York consisted of
the local rail rate to Galveston plus the water rate therefrom and a loading charge. To New England points, the
rate was made by adding the rail rate beyond New York.
The all-rail routes from Oklahoma to the New England
territory points are through St. Louis, Memphis, and
other Mississippi crossings; and the joint all-rail rates
were lower to New England destinations than the combination of local rail-and-water rates. On commodities
other than cotton, joint rail-and-water rates were in effect, and these were lower than the all-rail rates. The
commission found that the establishment of joint railand-water rates on cotton between the points in question was desirable in the public interest, and that the
existing rates for such transportation were unreasonable
to the extent that they exceeded or may exceed rates
constructed by the deduction of 4 cents from the present
all-rail rates. 87 I. C. C. 392; 93 I. C. C. 268. The
court below, consisting of three judges, after a hearing,
entered a decree dismissing the bill for want of equity.
6 F. (2d) 888.
Appellants assign 21 specifications of error; but the
objections to the commission's order, so far as necessary
to be considered here, may be summarized as follows:
(1) the commission undertook to equalize rail-and-water
rates with the all-rail rates, a power which it does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

possess; (2) if the order be treated as made under the
power to fix reasonable rates, it'is arbitrary and without
supporting evidence; (3) the result of the order is to
short-haul appellants' lines contrary to paragraph 4, § 15,
of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by § 418 of
the Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 485;
and (4) the order is based upon paragraph (13) of § 6,
added to the Interstate Commerce Act by the Panama
Canal Act of August 24, 1912, c. 390, 37 Stat. 560, 568,
and is, therefore, void because the authority of the commission was not invoked under that paragraph.
First. Appellants' argument under this head seems to
be predicated upon the contention that the order of the
commission established an exact relationship between the
rail-and-water rates and the present all-rail rates, the
differential of 4 cents being, it is said, the amount charged
by insurance companies as a premium for insurance to
cover the risk of water transportation; and that an analysis of the commission's order and report shows that the
commission itself recognized that it was undertaking to
make such an equalization. The complaint before the
commission plainly sought the establishment of reasonable rates, and the order of the commission directed the
carriers to discontinue the then existing rates made up
of combinations of local rates and substitute the maximum joint rates which were prescribed in the words
already stated. The commission found that rates
were and would be unreasonable to the extent they
exceeded or might exceed those prescribed. In form, the
action of the commission was responsive to the case made
by the complaint, and to hold that, in fact, its order was
not one fixing reasonable rates but an order equalizing
rates would be to put undue stress upon certain recitals
contained in the report, to which our attention is called
but which need not be detailed. If these recitals stood
alone, they might give plausibility to the contention;

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. U. S.
29

33

Opinion of the Court.

but from a consideration of the entire record we think it
quite unfair to conclude that the commission undertook
to exercise an authority entirely different and distinct
from that which the complaint specifically invoked.
There is nothing in Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 433, that requires a different conclusion. In that 6ase it appeared upon the face
of the record that the commission" had not exerted its
power to correct an unjust and unreasonable rate, but had
made the order complained of upon the theory that it
possessed the power to set aside a just and reasonable
rate whenever the commission deemed that it would be
equitable to shippers in a particular district to put in
force a reduced rate. In reaching that conclusion the
court thought that the complaint and answer presented
the latter issue; that while the opinion of the commission might contain some sentences indicating the contrary,
when considered as a whole, in the light of the record, it
clearly appeared that the order was based upon that
theory; and that this was borne out by the dissenting
opinion, which proceeded upon the express ground that
the order was an exertion of a power not possessed, with
no language in the prevailing opinion to indicate the contrary. Here, it is true, the order fixes the rail-and-water
rate by relating it in terms to the all-rail rate; but, since
we accept the view that the former was, in fact, established as a just and reasonable rate, there can be no objection to the form of words adopted as a method of short and
convenient description of that rate. The power of the
commission to equalize rates, if its authority to that end
should be invoked, is not involved.
Second. If the order of the commission be unsupported
by the evidence, it is, of course, void. New EnglandDivisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 203. But if the determination
of the commission finds substantial support in the evidence, the courts will not weigh the evidence nor consider
5-514*-28-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U.S.

the wisdom of the commission's action. Id., 204; VirginianRy. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658. The order
here does not rest alone upon comparisons with the allrail rates, as seems to be contended, but is supported by
other established facts and circumstances as well. See
Western Chem. Co. v. United States, 271 U. S. 268, 271.
Nothing is to be gained by a review of the evidence. It
is enough to say that both the commission and the lower
court thought it was ample to justify the order, and, upon
a consideration of the entire record, we find no reason to
differ with them in that conclusion.
Third. Does the order of the commission result in
short-hauling appellants' lines contrary to the provisions
of paragraph 4 of § 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
as amended by the Transportation Act, 1920? The pertinent provision of that paragraph is that the commission,
in establishing a through route, shall not, "except where
one of the carriers is a water line," require any railroad
carrier to embrace in such route substantially less than
the entire length of its railroad lying between the termini
of the proposed through route. That the through routes
here established by the commission's order do embrace
substantially less than the entire length of appellants'
railroads, etc., is not denied. And appellants' contention
is that the exception, "where one of the carriers is a water
line," has reference only to such a carrier as comes within
the description of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
which provides, among other things, that the provisions
of the act shall apply to common carriers engaged in "(a)
The transportation of passengers or property wholly by
railroad, or partly by railroad and partly by water when
both are used under a common control, management, or
arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment;
"
c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 474.
Appellees insist that the rail and water lines here involved come within the italicized portion of this provision.

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. U. S.
29

35

Opinion of the Court.

But it is unnecessary to pass upon that question, since
clearly the order in this respect can be sustained under
the later and broader provisions of paragraph (13) of § 6,
added to the Interstate Commerce Act by the Panama
Canal Act, supra. That paragraph provides"When property may be or is transported from point
to point in the United States by rail and water through
the Panama Canal or otherwise, the transportation being
by a common carrier or carriers, and not entirely within
the limits of a single State, the Interstate Commerce Commission shall have jurisdiction of such transportation and
of the carriers, both by rail and by water, which may or
do engage in the same, in the following particulars, in
addition to the jurisdiction given by the Act to regulate
commerce, as amended June eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten:
"(b) To establish through routes and maximum joint
rates betwen and over such rail and water lines, and to
determine all the terms and conditions under which such
lines shall be operated in the handling of the traffic
embraced."
This addition to the Interstate Commerce Act, materially extends the jurisdiction of the commission in respect of land and water transportation and the carriers
engaged in it, whenever property may be or is transported
in interstate commerce by rail and water by a common
carrier or carriers; and the obvious intention of Congress
would be substantially limited in effect if the quoted provisions were held to be subject to the restriction that both
rail and water must be used under a common control,
etc. The phrase, "except where one of the carriers is a
water line," was introduced in an amendment made to
the Interstate Commerce Act by the Transportation Act,
1920, and it is not unreasonable to include within the
scope of its reference, the then existing paragraph (13)

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

of § 6. And this view is strengthened by the consideration
that the Transportation Act, 1920, as a part of the new
policy which it introduced in respect of the regulation of
interstate transportation, Wisconsin R. R. Comm. v. C.,
B. & Q. R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 585; New England
Divisions Case, supra, p. 189, directed the commission to
establish through routes, joint classifications, etc., both in
respect of railroad and water carriers, "whenever deemed
by it to be necessary or desirable in the public interest,"
etc. 41 Stat. 485. And the same act declares it to be
"the policy of Congress to promote, encourage, and develop water transportation, service, and facilities in connection with the commerce of the United States, and to
foster and preserve in full vigor both rail and water transportation." Sec. 500, 41 Stat. 499.
These and other provisions emphasize the intention of
Congress to broaden the control of the Interstate Commerce Commission over rail-and-water transportation and,
generally, to extend the regulatory power of that body
over all such transportation in the public interest. It
would be quite inconsistent with that broad purpose to
adopt the narrow construction of the statutory provisions
under review which is advanced by appellants. On the
whole, and especially in the light of the definite congressional policy which the legislation reflects, Richardson v.
Harmon, 222 U. S. 96, 104; Holden v. Stratton, 198 U. S.
202, 213-214; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373,
395, we find no difficulty in rejecting the construction thus
advanced and adopting that which we have indicated,
without, at the same time, doing violence to the fair
meaning of the language actually employed.
Fourth. In disposing of the final objection, little need
be said. The contention is that the commission was without power to predicate its order on paragraph (13) of
§ 6 of the act, because there is no formal reference in the
complaint to that paragraph nor an order for an investi-

