OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

But, it is said, however it might be if this reasoning were
applied generally, it fails when it is confined to the small
number who are in the institutions named and is not applied to the multitudes outside. It is the usual last resort
of constitutional arguments to point out shortcomings of
this sort. But the answer is that the law does all that
is needed when it does all that it can, indicates a policy,
applies it to all within the lines, and seeks to bring within
the lines all similarly situated so far and so fast as its
means allow. Of course so far as the operations enable
those who otherwise must be kept confined to be returned
to the world, and thus open the asylum to others, the
equality aimed at will be more nearly reached.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissents.

BURNRITE COAL BRIQUETTE COMPANY v.
RIGGS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 227. Argued March 11, 14, 1927.-Decided May 2, 1927.
1. The objection to the bringing of a suit, dependent on diversity
of citizenship, in the District Court in a State of which neither
party is a citizen, goes to the venue, and may be waived by general
appearance and other action. P. 211.
2. A federal District Court may, under its general equity powers
independently of any state statute, entertain a bill of a stockholder against the corporation for the appointment of at least a
temporary receiver in order to prevent threatened diversion or
loss of assets through gross fraud and mismanagement of its
officers. P. 212.
3. The fact that a bill seeking appointment of a receiver of a corporation is brought in a State other than that of the incorporation
may lead the court to decline to interfere as a matter of comity
or for want of equity; or it may require the court to limit the
scope of the relief granted. But the fact of incorporation under
the laws of another State does not preclude jurisdiction. P. 212.

BURNRITE COAL CO. v. RIGGS.
208

Opinion of the Court.

4. Where a receiver is appointed in a stockholder's suit by a federal
court having jurisdiction, and the appointment is held on review
to have been wrongly made, the court may, in the exercise of its
judicial discretion, require that the receivers' charges be paid either
by the corporation or by the unsuccessful plaintiff. P. 214.
5. And where a court, in the exercise of jurisdiction, has erroneously
appointed a receiver, the acquiescence of the defendant may influence the court, in its discretion, to make the receivership expenses
a charge upon the fund. P. 214.
6. A decree of the Circuii Court of Appeals reviewing a decree of
the District Court which appointed receivers, and directing a
dismissal of the bill "for want of jurisdiction," does not become
the law of the case so as to require this Court, upon review of a
second appeal from a decree allowing the receivers' expenses, to
assume that the dismissal of the bill directed was properly for
want of jurisdiction. P. 215.
6 F. (2d) 226, affirmed.

CERTIORAR (269 U. S. 547) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed one of the District Court
allowing receivers' expenses against a corporation in a
stockholder's suit. See also 291 Fed. 754.
Messrs. James J. Lynch and George W. C. McCarter
with whom Mr. Robert H. McCarter was on the brief, for

petitioner.
Mr. Merritt Lane, with whom Mr. Joseph L. Smith was
on the brief, for respondents.
o
MR. JusTicE. BND~EIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This suit was brought in the federal court for New
Jersey against the Burnrite Coal Briquette Company, a
Delaware corporation, by Riggs, a stockholder. The bill
charged gross mismanagement; prayed for the appointment of a receiver to conserve the assets; and asked, that
"if deemed advisable" the court "proceed under the statutes of the State of New Jersey . . . and that the
55514°-28-

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

receiver be given all the powers and be charged with all
the duties imposed upon such a receiver by the statutes."
Upon the filing of the bill, receivers were appointed,
action by the corporation was enjoined, and an issue of
receivers' certificates was authorized, all ex parte. After
an elaborate hearing upon an order to show cause, the
receivers were continued until final hearing. Upon final
hearing, the charges of mismanagement were sustained
and the receivership was again ordered continued,
"with all the powers vested in them by previous orders
by this court made, and with all of the powers conferred
upon receivers by an act of the State of New Jersey, entitled, 'An act concerning corporations,' revision of 1896,
its amendments and supplements thereto, and that the
receivers continue to operate the business of said defendant corporation upon a re-organization or re-adjustment
of the affairs of said corporation or such disposition as
may be hereafter directed to be made of the affairs of
said corporation by this court."
The Court of Appeals reversed the decree entered upon
the final hearing and directed that the bill be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. The decision was not rested
upon the ground that a State cannot enlarge the remedial
right to proceed in a federal court sitting in equity, see
Pusey & Jones v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491; nor upon the
ground that a State cannot modify the substantive rights
of a stockholder as against a foreign corporation merely
because it happens to have property within the State.
Compare Maguire v. Mortgage Co., 203 Fed. 858. The
reversal was placed solely upon the ground that the corporation had been found by the District Court solvent at
the time of the filing of the bill; that the statute of New
Jersey, as interpreted by its courts, conferred no power
upon its own courts to appoint receivers of foreign corporations unless they were insolvent; and that the juris-

BURNRITE COAL CO. v. RIGGS.
208

Opinion of the Court.

diction of the federal court was determined by that of the
state courts. 291 Fed. 754.
After the coming down of the mandate, directing dismissal for want of jurisdiction, the District Court allowed
the account of the receivers who had been active during
a period of nearly two years; directed payment by the
corporation of the receivers' obligations then outstanding,
their expenses, the costs, and compensation for their own
services and those of their counsel, amounting in all to
nearly $80,000; declared these amounts a lien upon the
corporation's property; and ordered that, in default of
payment, the property be sold to satisfy the charges.
Upon a second appeal, that decree was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals. 6 F. (2d) 226. The corporation contended that since the District Court was held to be without jurisdiction, it had no power to allow the account
and order the payment out of the fund. Lion Bonding
and Surety Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 640, 642. This Court
granted a writ of certiorari. 269 U. S. 547.
The main question for decision is whether, in view of
the Court of Appeals' direction to dismiss the bill for
want of jurisdiction, it was error to allow thereafter the
receivers' account and direct the payment. There was
an objection to the jurisdiction, which, if it had been
seasonably taken, must have prevailed. Camp v. Gress,
250 U. S. 308. The plaintiff was a citizen of New York;
the defendant a Delaware corporation; the federal jurisdiction rested wholly on diversity of citizenship; and
neither party was a citizen of New Jersey. Thus, there
was a sound objection to the venue. If that objection
had been duly made, and had been insisted upon, an error
of the lower court in overruling it could not justify
charging the corporation now with payment of any charge
on account of the receivership. But that objection to
the jurisdiction, being to the venue, could be waived.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Central Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 U. S. 129; Kreigh
v. Westinghouse & Co., 214 U. S. 249, 252-253. And,
before it was taken by the answer, it had been waived by
a general appearance and other action. This was
conceded.
The reversal with direction to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, ordered on the first appeal, was put upon an
entirely different ground. The Court of Appeals held
that there was lack of jurisdiction of the subject matter.
It assumed that the jurisdiction of the federal court
was dependent upon the state statute. This was error.
A federal district court may, under its general equity
powers independently of any state statute, entertain a
bill of a stockholder against the corporation for the appointment of at least a temporary receiver in order to
prevent threatened diversion or loss of assets through
gross fraud and mismanagement of its officers.' There
were allegations in the bill adequate to support a suit of
that character; and there was nothing in the bill inconsistent with its being entertained as such. The only reference in the bill to the state statute was in one of its
eleven prayers. After the waiver of the objection to the
venue, there was federal jurisdiction over the parties and
of the subject matter; and there was equity jurisdiction.
The fact that a bill seeking appointment of a receiver
of a corporation is brought in a State other than that of
the incorporation may lead the court to decline to interfere as a matter of comity or for want of equity; or it
may require the court to limit the scope of the relief
'See Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 341-344; Zeckendorf v. Steinfeld, 225 U. S. 445, 459; Citizens' Savings & Trust Co. v. Ill. Cent.
R. R. Co., 205 U. S. 46; Clark v. National Linseed Oil Co., 105 Fed.
787; New Albany Waterworks Co. v. Louisville Banking Co., 122 Fed.
776; Callins v. Williamson, 229 Fed. 59.

BURNRITE COAL CO. v. RIGGS.
208

213

Opinion of the Court.

granted.' But the fact of incorporation under the laws
of another State does not preclude jurisdiction. 3 If the
dismissal directed by the Court of Appeals on the first
appeal was proper (as to which we have no occasion to
express an opinion), it must be justified on the ground
that, in view of the facts, the District Court erred in its
judgment in appointing and continuing the receivers.
Compare Chicago Title & Trust Co. v. Newman, 187 Fed.
573, 576. In other words, the dismissal must rest on the
ground that there was want of equity, not on lack of
jurisdiction.
The District Court, assuming erroneously that it was
without jurisdiction of the cause, based the order of payment solely on a, supposed exception to the rule which
denies to a court lacking jurisdiction the power to allow
receivers' charges. According to the supposed exception,
a party who has acquiesced and has thereby joined in misleading the court into an erroneous exercise of jurisdiction,
may not complain when he is, thereafter, saddled with the
charges. And he will be held to have acquiesced, despite
a challenge of the jurisdiction, if his challenge was placed
wholly upon an untenable ground; for, by objecting only
on the untenable ground, he may have misled the court
as much as if he had not objected at all. The trial
court rested its finding of acquiescence on the fact that,
while vigorously opposing continuance of the receiver'See Leary v. Columbia River Nay. Co., 82 Fed. 775; Sidway v.
Missouri Land Co., 101 Fed. 481; Parks v. Bankers' Corporation,140
Fed. 160; Pearce v. Sutherland, 164 Fed. 609; Maguire v. Mortgage
Co., 203 Fed. 858.
"Compare Central Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 1. S. 129; Lewis v.
American Naval Stores, 119 Fed. 391; Scattergood v. American Pipe
Co., 249 Fed. 23; Ward v. Foulkrod, 264 Fed. 627; Kynerd v.
McCarthy, 3 F. (2d) 32; See & Depew, Inc. v. Fisheries Products
Co., 9 F. (2d) 235. Compare also, North American Land Co. v.
Watkins, 109 Fed. 101.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ship on other grounds, the corporation did not intimate
a lack of jurisdiction until months after the appointment;
that, aside from failing to object to the venue, it failed
to appeal from the decree continuing the appointment of
the receivers, when the case was heard upon the order to
show cause; and that it stood by in silence while the
receivers were borrowing and spending money upon its
property, thus taking the benefit of their action. The
assumption of the District Court in matter of law and its
finding of fact were affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
We have no occasion to determine whether a federal
district court which appoints a receiver in a case in which
it necessarily lacks jurisdiction of the subject matter, so
that jurisdiction cannot be acquired by acquiescence, may
nevertheless impose upon the corporation, because of
acquiescence, the usual charges incident to a receivership.
For in the case at bar, the District Court had throughout
jurisdiction of the subject matter. It is settled that
where a receiver is appointed in a stockholders' suit by a
federal court having jurisdiction, and the appointment is
held on review to have been wrongly made, the court may,
in the exercise of its judicial discretion, require that the
receivers' charges be paid either by the corporation or by
the unsuccessful plaintiff.4 See Palmer v. Texas, 212
U. S. 118, 132; Lion Bonding and Surety Co. v. Karatz,
262 U. S. 640, 642. Compare Atlantic Trust Co. v. Chapman, 208 U. S. 360. And where a court, in the exercise
of jurisdiction, has erroneously appointed a receiver, the
acquiescence of the defendant may influence the court, in
its discretion, to make the receivership expenses a charge
'See Ferguson v. Dent, 46 Fed. 88, 96-99; Clark v. Brown, 119
Fed. 130; Beach v. Macon Grocery Co., 125 Fed. 513; In re Lacov,
142 Fed. 960; In re T. E. Hill Co., 159 Fed. 73; In re Aschenbach Co.,
183 Fed. 305; In re Wentworth Lunch Co., 191 Fed. 821; In re
Wilkes-Barre Light Co., 235 Fed. 807; In re Independent Machine
Corp., 251 Fed. 484.

