OVERLAND CO. v. PACKARD CO.
410

Syllabus.

funds in the Insular Treasury, not otherwise appropriated, equal to 30 per cent. of the expenses of the City
government, within certain other limitations, and the
Insular Auditor is to ascertain the amount thus appropriated and transfer it to the City. How far this would
involve quasi-judicial oil administrative discretion not to
be controlled by mandamus, it is not necessary for us to
consider or decide; because this case relates only to internal revenue receipts and their distribution, in respect of
which the provisions of law are specific and mandatory
as we have seen. The conclusion of the Supreme Court
of the Philippines in directing a mandamus to issue
against the Internal Revenue Collector and the Insular
Auditor was in accordance with the statutory law of the
Philippines and was right.
A majority of the Supreme Court of the Philippines
reached this conclusion. That Court further expressed
an opinion as to the relation of the City to the Insular
Auditor and his functions, which was not necessary, it
seems to us, to decide this case. We desire therefore to
limit our opinion to the mere question whether the City's
share of the internal revenue collections must be paid
to the City by the Collector.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippines is
Affirmed.

OVERLAND MOTOR COMPANY v. PACKARD
MOTOR COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 285. Argued April 21, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. An applicant for patent who cancels one of his claims without
appealing, after a ruling finally rejecting it as unpatentable, announcing at the time his intention to file a divisional application
55514°-28--27

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

covering the same subject matter, does not abandon it nor estop
himself from so renewing it with the consent of the Patent Office.
P. 420.
2. Granting of patent upon such new application imports a waiver by
the Office of objection based on the previous rejection. P. 421.
3. A bill to enjoin infringement of a patent can not be dismissed
upon the ground of laches because the pendency of the application
in the Patent Office was protracted by the applicant's delays in
responding to Patent Office action, where such delays in no instance
exceeded the period allowed by statute. Rev. Stats. § 4894. P. 422.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon an appeal from a decree enjoining alleged
infringements of a patent.

Mr. Melville Church, with whom Mr. Clarence B. Des
Jardins was on the brief, for the Overland Motor
Company.
Mr. Frank Parker Davis, with whom Messrs. Philip
Mauro, Clarence S. Walker, and Reeve Lewis were on the
brief, for the Packard Motor Company et al.
Mr. DonaldM. Carterfiled a brief as amicus curiae by
special leave of Court.
MR. CImF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes from the Circuit Court of Appeals of
the Seventh Circuit, upon a certificate of two questions
for our consideration and answer. Section 239 of the Judicial Code, as amended by Act of February 13, 1925, c.
229, 43 Stat. 936. The suit is one in which the Packard
Motor Car Company and the Wire Wheel Corporation
seek to enjoin an alleged infringement by the Overland
Motor Company of the Cowles Patent, No. 1,103,567,
issued to Cowles on July 14, 1914, and owned by them.
On August 25, 1899, Cowles filed an application which
was duly granted July 13, 1900. His application disclosed the matter in suit. The Patent Office, however,
required a division of claims, and he canceled all claims

OVERLAND CO. v. PACKARD CO.
417

Opinion of the Court.

as well as the description and drawing in the specification
that supported such claims, bearing upon the subject
matter of the present controversy. In that case the patent as granted covered merely the remaining claims.
September 6, 1901, he filed another application, not a di-

visional application, disclosing and claiming, among other
things, the subject matter in suit. This was pending in
the Patent Office until January 21, 1913, when a patent
issued for it. Certain claims made by him were repeat-

edly rejected by the Patent Office. Cowles complied with
the requirements of § 4894, Rev. Stats., requiring an applicant to reply to the action of the Patent Office within
a year, but on seven different occasions he delayed more
than eleven months before filing his response to the Patent Office ruling. On May 20, 1911, the Patent Office
finally rejected the only claim remaining in the application which was directed to the subject matter in issue,
holding that it was unpatentable on certain references.
On May 17, 1912, Cowles canceled this finally rejected
claim from his application, stating his intention to file a
divisional application covering the subject matter of this
claim. No such divisional application had ever been directed or suggested by the Patent Office. A patent was
then (January 21, 1913) issued on other claims without
any claim to the subject matter in issue. On August 6,
1912, Cowles filed an application for a patent which he
stated was a division of the application filed September
6, 1901, and which disclosed and sought the claims in
issue. The patent in suit was then issued on this application on July 14, 1914. During its pendency in the Patent
Office, Cowles complied with the requirements of § 4894,
Rev. Stats., although on one occasion he delayed over
eleven months before responding to the Patent Office
action. During the period from 1905 to 1912, trade journals of the United States and Great Britain published
articles disclosing the subject matter in issue, and certain

420-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

British patents were granted, on subjects relating to such
subject matter. The publications and patents represented independent work in Great Britain, and, as a
result thereof, there was actual use of the subject matter in suit abroad during the pendency of the original and
divisional applications above referred to. No product
embodying the subject matter of the claims in suit appeared upon the market in the United States prior to the
issuing of the patent in suit. Upon these facts, the first
question certified is as follows:
"Did the applicant, in canceling the claim which was
finally rejected on May 20, 1911, abandon such claim or
estop himself from thereafter seeking it through a new
application?"
We do not find in the statement of facts any circumstances which can be held to be an abandonment by Cowles
of his claim for which he subsequently secured this patent. On May 20, 1911, the claim was rejected on account
of its non-patentability in view of certain references. On
May 17, 1912, he canceled the claim, stating at the time
that it was his intention to file a divisional application
covering this subject matter. After he had done this, on
August 6th, less than four months after the cancellation,
he filed the claim as a divisional application under the
earlier case, and this new application, with the renewed
claim, went to patent on July 14, 1914. We can not see
why he was estopped by his failure to appeal from the
final rejection. It is quite true that, after such rejection, the Commissioner of Patents might.have refused to
consider his divisional application, as he made it without
suggestion or consent by the Patent Office. In a qualified and limited sense, a claim rejected as this was constitutes res judicata in favor of the Government and
against the applicant. This is fully explained by Judge
Morris in In re Barratt'sAppeal, 14 App. D. C. 255, in
speaking of a case presenting a similar question;

OVERLAND CO. v. PACKARD CO.
417

Opinion of the Court.

"While the rules that govern the finality and conclusiveness of adjudications at the common law do not
apply, in the strict sense, to administrative or quasijudicial action in the Executive Departments of Government, yet in administrative action, as well as in judicial
proceeding, it is both expedient and necessary that there
should be an end of controversy. Sometimes, the element of finality is inherent in the nature of the action
taken; as, for example, when letters patent have been
granted, they may not be recalled, and the rights of the
parties holding them again investigated. Where rights
have become vested as the result of legitimate executive
action, such action is necessarily final, and it is not competent thereafter for executive action to divest them,
either by way of a review of the proceedings or by any
new proceedings instituted with that view. Especially is
this principle applicable to the proceedings of the Patent
Office, which are so nearly akin to jfidicial proceedings as
to be most appropriately designated as quasi-judicial."
Following then the analogy, he finds that such a case
as this may constitute res judicata in a sense; but he
qualifies the statement in this important way:
"In what we have said we do not desire it to be understood that the Patent Office may not, if it thinks proper
so to do, entertain and adjudicate a second application
for a patent after the first application has been rejected.
What we decide is, that it is not incumbent upon the
office as a duty to entertain such applications, and that,
if it refuses to entertain them, it has a perfect legal right
so to do. An applicant is not legally aggrieved by such
refusal."
This qualification is approved in the case of In re Fay,
15 App. D. C. 515; In re Edison, 30 App. D. C. 321, 323;
and in Gold v. Gold, 34 App. D. C. 229.
As the Patent Office by granting the patent must be
held to have waived any objection to the application

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 IT.S.

on the ground that the claim allowed had been rejected
before by that Office, there is no reason why the appellees
below should not be allowed to avail themselves of the
waiver. We answer the first question in the negative.
Second: The second question was as follows:
"In the absence of any other excuse for lapse of time
between Patent Office actions and responses thereto, than
that the applicant was exercising a statutory right (R. S.
Sec. 4894 as amended setting limit of one year for response), may the bill of complaint be dismissed for want
of equity because of long pendency in the Patent Office?"
We think that under the decision of this Court in
United States v. American Bell Telephone Company, 167
U. S. 224, and Chapman v. Wintroath, 252 U. S. 126, this
question must also be answered in the negative.
By § 12 of the Act of 1861 (12 Stat. 246), it was required that all applications for patent should be completed and prepared for examination within two years
after the filing of the petition, and, in default thereof,
were to be regarded as abandoned by the parties thereto,
unless shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of
Patents that such delay was unavoidable. There was no
provision limiting the time of the prosecution of the
application in this section. By the Act of 1870 (16 Stat.
198), it was provided, in § 32, that all applications for
patent should be completed and prepared for examination
within two years after the filing of the petition, and in
default thei-eof, or upon failure of the applicant to prosecute the same within two years after any action therein,
of which notice shall have been given to the applicant,
they should be regarded as abandoned by the parties
thereto, unless shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that such delay was unavoidable. This provision
of the Act of 1870 was carried into the Revised Statutes
as § 4894, and so the statute stood until 1897, when, by
29 Stat. 692, § 4894 was amended as follows:

OVERLAND CO. v. PACKARD CO.
417

Opinion of the Court.

"All applications for patents shall be completed and
prepared for examination within one year after the filing
of the application, and in default thereof, or upon failure
of the applicant to prosecute the same within one year
after any action therein, of which notice shall have been
given to the applicant, they shall be regarded as abandoned by the parties thereto, unless it be shown to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner of Patents that such
delay was unavoidable."
Counsel for the alleged infringer says, that even with
the time limit for action on the part of the applicant
thus reduced to one year, it becomes easily possible for
an applicant, after an action by the Patent Office upon
his application, to delay for the full period of a year his
response to such action, and however promptly the Patent Office may again act, he can delay another full year
before replying to it, and thus, by waiting a year after
each official action, (1) keep his application pending so
as to enable him to withhold, indefinitely, his invention
from the public, (2) add claims to his application covering the independent intervening developments of others,
and (3) postpone the time when the public may enjoy
the free use of the invention-all contrary to sound
public policy.
The answer to this argument is that the matter is entirely within the control of Congress, and, in order to
avoid the evil suggested, Congress may reduce the time
within which one who is seeking an adjustment with the
Patent Office, in order to obtain a patent, shall act upon
receipt of notice of a decision of the Patent Office in the
course of the application through that office. Congress,
as we have seen by the history of the statute, reduced
this time from an indefinite period in 1861 to two years
in 1870, and to one year in 1897, and, as provided in the
last Congress, to six months. Act of March 2, 1927, c. 273,
44 Stat. 1335.

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

During the pendency of the application in this case,
the period allowed was one year. We do not know on
what principle we could apply the equitable doctrine of
abandonment by laches, in a case where the measure of
reasonable promptness is fixed by statute, and no other
ground appears by reason of which laches could be imputed
to the applicant.
In United States v. American Bell Telephone Company, 167 U. S. 224, the Government brought a proceeding in equity to cancel a patent on the ground that it had
been fraudulently secured, and part of the fraud of the
patentee was that he had unreasonably delayed the obtaining of the patent, by collusion with officials of the
Department, through their non-action, and thus postponed the period during which the monopoly of the patent was to continue. The court found no evidence of
any collusion or fraud by the officials of the Department
or undue or improper influence exerted or attempted to
be exerted upon them. It said that Congress had established a department with officials selected by the Government, to whom all applications for patents must be
made, had prescribed the terms and conditions of such
applications and entrusted the entire management of
affairs of the department to those officials, and that when
an applicant for a patent complied with the terms and
conditions prescribed and filed his application with the
officers of the department, he must abide their action
and could not be held to suffer or lose rights by reason
of any delay on the part of those officials. The court
said:
" Neither can a patty pursuing a strictly legal remedy
be adjudged in the wrong if he acts within the time
allowed, and pursues the method prescribed by the statute.
.. Under section 4886, Rev. Stat., an inventor has
two years from the time his invention is disclosed to the

OVERLAND CO. v. PACKARD CO.
417

425

Opinion of the Court.

public within which to make his application, and unless
an abandonment is shown during that time he is entitled
to a patent, and the patent runs as any other patent for
seventeen years from its date. He cannot be deprived
of this right by proof that if he had filed his application
immediately after the invention the patent would have
been issued two years earlier than it was, and the public
therefore would have come into possession of the free use
of the invention two years sooner. The statute has given
this right, and no consideration of public benefit can take
it from him. His right exists because Congress has declared that it should. . . . A party seeking a right
under the patent statutes may avail himself of all their
provisions, and the courts may not deny him the benefit
of a single one. These are questions not of natural but
of purely statutory right. Congress, instead of fixing
seventeen had the power to fix thirty years as the life of
a patent. No court can disregard any statutory provisions in respect to these matters on the ground that in
its judgment they are unwise or prejudicial to the
interests of the public."
The case of Chapman v. Wintroath, 252 U. S. 126, was
an attempt in an interference suit to defeat a patent
granted to the Chapmans on a divisional application, for
an improvement in deep well pumps, in which the claims
were the same as the claims of a patent to Wintroath,
the divisional application having been made twenty
months later than the date of the issue of the patent to
Wintroath. It was conceded that the claims had been
disclosed in the Chapman patent, which had been applied
for in 1909 but which had met unusual difficulties in the
Patent Office and, though regularly prosecuted as required by law and the rules of the office; was still pending without having been passed to patent in 1915, when
the controversy arose. It was admitted that the inven-

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

tion was clearly disclosed in the parent application of the
Chapmans, but it was contended that their divisional application claiming the discovery should be denied, because
of their delay of nearly twenty months in filing it after
the publication of Wintroath's patent, when they had by
law only one year. It was held by the Court of Appeals
of the District (Wintroath v. Chapman, 47 App. D. C.
428) that the delay of more than a year constituted
equitable laches and estopped the Chapmans from making their divisional claim. That holding had rested on a
previous decision by the Court of Appeals in Rowntree
v. Sloan, 45 App. D. C. 207. This Court held that under
§ 4886 of the Revised Statutes, as amended March 3,
1897, two years was granted in such a case before the
right to file a divisional application had been lost. The
Court based its decision that the statutory period could
not be reduced by equitable considerations or those of
public policy on the language which we have just quoted
from Mr. Justice Brewer in his opinion in the Telephone
case. The same doctrine is to be found in Crown Cork
& Seal Company v. Aluminum Company, 108 Fed. 845,
and Columbia Motor Car Company v. Duerr& Company,
184 Fed. 893.
The case of Woodbridge v. United States, 263 U. S. 50,
is cited by counsel for the defendant to sustain their view
that this is a case in which the doctrine of laches and
abandonment may be enforced. The Woodbridge case
was an exceptional one. Woodbridge had deliberately
delayed the issue of the patent, which he could have had
for the asking, for nine years. He had directed the Patent Office to keep the papers upon which such issue might
have been granted in the secret archives of the Patent
Office, there to -remain for one year, a privilege which
was given him under the law as it then existed. He
failed after the one year to apply for the patent because,
as he avowed in a subsequent application, he wished there-

