OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

274 U. S.

MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE
TOWN OF VIDALIA v. McNEELY, ADMINISTRATRIX.
McNEELY, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. MAYOR AND
BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE TOWN OF
VIDALIA.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Nos. 140, 163. Argued January 26, 27, 1926.-Decided June 6, 1927.
1. Ferries operated across boundary waters between States simply as
a means of transit from shore to shore are instruments of local
convenience and subject to local regulation to the extent that, in
the absence of Congressional action, each State may act with
respect to the ferriage from its shore. P. 681.
2. But a State or its municipality may not make its license a condition precedent to the operation of such a ferry by one having full
capacity to operate, and operating it serviceably. P. 683.
3. Landing places for competing ferries in a town may be designated
in an equity suit, where the town has unlawfully refused to consider
one of the ferries, upon the ground that it was not licensed, and
assigned the place which it occupied to the competitor. P. 683.
4. In Louisiana, the banks of navigable streams are subject to a
servitude permitting their use for public purposes, including those
incident to navigation. The owner of riparian lots is not entitled
to preference in the use of the adjacent bank for ferry landings;
nor does prior use entitle him to exclude another ferry where there
is room for both. P. 684.
6 F. (2d) 19; id. 21, affirmed.

CROSS appeals from a decree of the District Court in a
suit to restrain the Town of Vidalia, Louisiana, from
interfering with the operation of a ferry.
Messrs. Hugh Tullis and L. T. Kennedy, with whom
Messrs. E. H. Ratcliff and W. H. Watkins were on the
briefs, for MeNeely, Administratrix.

MAYOR OF VIDALIA v. McNEELY.
676

677

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. G. P. Bullis for the Town of Vidalia.
Messrs. John Brunini, James H. Price, and Luther A.
Whittington filed a brief as amici curiae, by special leave
of Court.
MR. JusTicm VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit to restrain the town of Vidalia, Louisiana,
from unwarrantably interfering with the operation by
the complainant of a public ferry from that town across
the Mississippi River to Natchez, Mississippi. On a preliminary hearing the District Court awarded the complainant a temporary injunction, 6 Fed. (2d) 19. In the
answer the defendant insisted that the complainant was
without a license from it to operate the ferry and on that
ground prayed that he be enjoined from continuing his
operation. On the final hearing the temporary injunction was made permanent with a modification which will
be noticed later, and the injunction prayed by the defendant was denied, 6 Fed. (2d) 21. The parties then were
allowed cross appeals to this Court under § 238 of the
Judicial Code as it stood at that time. The complainant
died shortly thereafter and his administratrix was substituted as a party in his stead, but for convenience we
shall state the case and discuss it as if he were still living.
The material facts will be stated.
The complainant, McNeely, is a citizen and resident of
Mississippi and for more than 20 years has been operating a public ferry from Vidalia across the Mississippi
River to Natchez and from Natchez to Vidalia. lHe has
three boats in the service and has floating steel docks and
other equipment at both Vidalia and Natchez which he
uses in making landings and in receiving and discharging
passengers and freight. The value of the boats and
equipment is $50,000 or more and the yearly income from

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the ferry is about $5,000. At Vidalia his floating docks
and landing equipment have been moored and maintained
at and near the foot of Concordia street, which was designated by the town as the landing place for his ferry
when he began operating it. The variation in the rise
and fall of the river is about 55 feet, and a levee extends
along the bank and across Concordia street. So it has
been essential for him to construct and maintain a ramp
or graduated approach from his docks to the intersection
of the street and levee. While operating the ferry, he
acquired and still holds the lots abutting on the river for
several hundred feet on either side of Concordia street.
Occasionally he has moved his docks and landing facilities to one side of the street or the other, but only in
front of his own lots. His boats have been duly inspected, enrolled and licensed under the navigation laws
of the United States and are manned and operated conformably to the requirements of those laws; but he now
has no local license to operate the ferry.
The suit was begun in October, 1924. Theretofore the
complainant had been operating the ferry under licenses
granted by Vidalia and Natchez, but these licenses had
then terminated. Early in 1924 the town of Vidalia
adopted an ordinance specially granting to the city of
Natchez and its assigns a license to operate a public ferry
from Vidalia to Natchez and return for a period of ten
years, on stated terms whereby the licensee was to have
the use of all streets and public places on the river side of
the levee at Vidalia for a landing place and approaches,
was to pay to Vidalia $1,000 per year during the life of
the license, and was to have a preference right to receive,
without further payment, any license which Vidalia might
conclude to give for another ferry to Natchez.
The license so granted to the city of Natchez was transfered by it to the Royal Route Company, a corporation.
Vidalia recognized the transfer and then adopted a fur-

MAYOR OF VIDALIA v. MaNEELY.
676

Opinion of the Court.

ther ordinance designating for such assignee the same
landing place at the foot of Concordia street which it
theretofore had designated for the complainant and which
he was still using. This ordinance forbade any one other
than such assignee to moor, tie, anchor or keep any craft
or object of any kind in the river within 150 feet of that
landing place, imposed a substantial penalty for every
violation of that provision, and directed the mayor and
marshal of the town to remove immediately any offending craft or object found within such limits. No provision of any kind was made for another landing place for
the complainant or for the further operation of his ferry
or for the operation of any ferry other than that of such
assignee.
The complainant, believing that Vidalia had exceeded
its power in the premises, continued to operate his ferry,
whereupon the town proceeded to arrest and punish him
under the provisions just described. He then brought
this suit, charging in the complaint that the ordinances
and action of the town constituted such an interference
with interstate commerce as is forbidden to a State and
its agencies by the commerce clause of the Constitution
of the United States. The District Court, while recognizing that in the absence of controlling congressional
legislation the town possesses a substantial power of regulation in respect of the operation of such a ferry, was of
opinion that its action in this instance was in excess of
its power and therefore that the complainant was entitled
to an injunction. It was also of opinion that the river
bank from the levee to the water, although belonging to
the owner of the adjacent land, is under the law of the
State subject to a servitude permitting its use for various
public purposes including that of using it as a place of
landing for ferry boats and for receiving and discharging
passengers and freight carried thereon; and that, while
the designation of landing places as between competing

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ferries is a matter ordinarily resting with local municipal
authorities, Vidalia's discriminatory action towards the
complainant had been such as to justify the court in making the designation. It accordingly designated for the
Royal Route Company 300 feet of* the bank and water
frontage beginning 10 feet north of the north line of Concordia street and extending thence upstream, and confined the complainant to the portion beginning 10 feet
south of the south line of the street and extending thence
downstream.
The town renews the contention made below that, consistently with the commerce clause, it may grant or withhold a license to operate such a ferry, guided only by its
judgment of what is in keeping with the public interest,
and may prohibit the operation of such a ferry without
a license from it. The argument advanced in support
of the contention is that if local authorities may not control ferriage over boundary streams like the Mississippi
by granting or withholding licenses the ferriage will be
subject to no restrictions and the public may suffer from
extortionate rates and an absence of provisions for safe
carriage, because the nature of the business and varying
local conditions make it impracticable for Congress to
prescribe effective general regulations. We think the argument confuses power to license and therefore to exclude
from the business with power to regulate it, and also that
the contention is unsound.
The transportation of persons and property from one
State to another is none the less interstate commerce
because conducted by ferry; and it does not admit of
question that ferries so employed are subject to congressional regulation. Congress has adopted some measures
to promote the safety of this form of transportation, Rev.
Stat. §§ 4233 (Rule 7), 4426; and also a measure regulating rates on ferries operated in connection with railroads,

MAYOR OF VIDALIA v. MoNEELY.
676

Opinion of the Court.

New York CentralR. R. Co. v. Hudson County, 227 U. S.
248, 263.
But, while holding that such interstate transportation
is subject to congressional regulation, this Court always
has recognized that ferries operated across boundary
waters between States simply as a means of transit from
shore to shore should be deemed instruments of local convenience and subject to local regulation to the extent that
in the absence of congressional action each State may act
with respect to the ferriage from its shore. In Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S.196, 206, where particular state action in respect of an interstate ferry was
condemned as placing an inadmissible burden on interstate commerce, there was express recognition of the
authority of the State to prescribe "such measures as
will prevent confusion among the vessels, and collision
between them, insure their safety and convenience, and
facilitate the discharge or receipt of their passengers and
freight." In Port Richmond Ferry Co. v. Hudson
County, 234 U. S. 317, 332, which related to a ferry between two States, there was express affirmation of the
authority of each State to fix reasonable rates for the ferriage from its shore. The Court said in that connection:
"It has never been supposed that because of the absence
of Federal action the public interest was unprotected
from extortion and that in order to secure reasonable
charges in a myriad of such different local instances, exhibiting an endless variety of circumstance, it would be
necessary for Congress to act directly or to establish for
that purpose a Federal agency. The matter is illuminated by the consideration of this alternative for the
point of the contention is that, there being no Federal
regulation, the ferry rates are to be deemed free from all
control. The practical advantages of having the matter
dealt with by the States are obvious and are illustrated

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

by the practice of one hundred and twenty-five years.
And in view of the character of the subject, we find no
sound objection to its continuance. If Congress at any
time undertakes to regulate such rates, its action will of
course control." But the Court was careful to indicate
that the decision was not intended to give any sanction
to "prohibitory or discriminatory requirements, or burdensome exactions," interfering with "the guaranteed
freedom of interstate intercourse."
The case of Sault Ste. Marie v. internationalTransit
Co., 234 U. S. 333, is specially in point here. That was
a suit by a Canadian corporation conducting a ferry between Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, and Sault Ste. Marie,
Michigan, to prevent the enforcement against it of an
ordinance of the city of Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, prohibiting the operation of a ferry from that city to the
opposite shore of the St. Mary's River except under a
license from that city and on the payment of a license
fee of $50. The ordinance was assailed as being in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution and
with a treaty with Great Britain. The Court sustained
the constitutional objection and the plaintiff's right to an
injunction without considering the treaty question. It
said:
"The fundamental principle involved has been applied
by this court in recent decisions in a great variety of circumstances, and it must be taken to be firmly established
that one otherwise enjoying full capacity for the purpose
cannot be compelled to take out a local license for the
mere privilege of carrying on interstate or foreign commerce. [Citing cases.]
"Assuming that, by reason of the local considerations
pertinent to the operation of ferries, there exists in the
absence of Federal action a -local protective power to prevent extortion in the rates charged for ferriage from the
shore of the State, and to prescribe reasonable regulations

MAYOR OF VIDALIA v. McNEELY.
676

Opinion of the Court.

necessary to secure good order and convenience, we think
that the action of the city in the present case in requiring the appellee to take out a license, and to pay a license
fee, for the privilege of transacting the business conducted
at its wharf, was beyond the power which the State could
exercise either directly or by delegation."
The action of the town in this case is on the same
plane. The complainant, according to the record, has
full capacity to operate, and is operating, a serviceable
ferry over the Mississippi and the town is attempting to
exclude his ferry on the ground that he is operating it
without a local license. The question is not whether
the town may fix reasonable rates applicable to ferriage
from its river front or may prescribe reasonable regulations calculated to secure safety and convenience in the
conduct of the business, but whether it may make its consent and license a condition precedent to a right to engage therein. This we hold it may not do.
Both parties complain of the part of the decree designating the landing places to be used by the competing
ferries-the town on the ground that it alone is clothed
with authority to make such designations, and the complainant on the ground that the designation was made
without proper regard for his ownership of the land or
his prior use and improvements.
It must be conceded that the designation of places for
ferry landings along the river bank within the town limits is a function which primarily belongs to the town
and is not ordinarily subject to judicia control. But
here the town proceeded on the erroneous theory that
the complainant's ferry need not be considered. Not only
was no new landing place assigned for his ferry, but the
place theretofore and then in actual use for it was
assigned to the competing ferry. In this the town plainly
deviated from its duty in the premises, for it was under
the same legal obligation to accord a landing place to

