FED. TRADE COMM. v. EASTMAN CO.
614

619

Statement of the Case.

power of the State to enforce such a law cannot be
doubted. Sherlock v. Aling, 93 U. S. 99, 104; Bulkley
v. Honold, 19 How. 390; The Winnebago, supra, 362;
Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71, 74, 75; City of New
York v. Independent Steam-Boat Co., 22 Fed. 801, 802.
Judgment affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. EASTMAN
KODAK COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 215. Argued March 10, 11, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. The Federal Trade Commission can exercise only the administrative functions delegated to it by statute, not judicial power; and
the Circuit Court of Appeals, on a petition for review, may not
sustain or award relief beyond the authority of the Commission.
P. 623.
2. The Commission has no authority, under § 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act, to require a corporation to divest itself of physical
property which it acquired prior to any action by the Commission,
even though the acquisition and retention of the property were
part of, or a step in, an unfair method of competition. P. 624.
7 F. (2d) 994, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 546) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which set aside in part an order of the
Federal Trade Commission, in a proceeding under § 5 of
the Federal Trade Commission Act against the Eastman
Kodak Company, the Allied Laboratories Association, and
other parties. The order required them to desist from
acts held by the Commission to constitute unfair methods
of competition in the manufacture and sale of positive
cinematograph films in interstate and foreign commerce,
The decree below set it aside in so far as it required the
Eastman Company to sell certain laboratories.

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Mr. Adrien F. Busick, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell and Mr. Bayard T. Hainer were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Clarence P.
Moser and Harold G. Hathaway were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This writ brings up for review a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals setting aside in part an order of the
Federal Trade .Commission, entered after a due hearing
in a proceeding instituted by it under § 5 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act,' by which the Eastman Kodak
Company, the Allied Laboratories Association, Inc., and
others were required to desist from acts held by the Commission to constitute unfair methods of competition in
the manufacture and sale of positive cinematograph films
in interstate and foreign commerce.
These positive films are raw materials used by film
laboratories in making positive prints of motion pictures
that are thrown upon the screen. The Eastman Company originated the commercial manufacture of such films
many years ago. In 1920 it manufactured and sold 94 per
cent. of those used in the United States; but in 1921,
owing to competition by importers of films manufactured
in foreign countries, its sales decreased to 81 per cent.
Upon an agreed statement of facts,-and the inferences
which it drew therefrom, the Commission found, in effect,
that thereafter the Eastman Company, with the purpose
and intent of maintaining its monopoly and lessening
competition in the sale of such films, acquired three laboratories used in making motion picture prints, whose combined capacity exceeded that of all the other laboratories
138

Stat. 717, c. 311; U. S. C., Tit. 15, § 45.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. EASTMAN CO.
619

Opinion of the Court.

621

I

east of Chicago, and announced its intention of entering
upon the manufacture of such prints; that this constituted
an effective threat of overpowering competitive force
which compelled the members of the Allied Laboratories--an association of manufacturers of such prints-to enter into an agreement or understanding with the
Eastman Company that the members of the Allied Laboratories would use American-made films only, to the &xclusion of foreign-made films, so long as the Company
did not compete with them in manufacturing prints, and
that the company-which continued to maintain its
laboratories in readiness for operation-would not manufacture prints in competition with them so long as they
used American-made films exclusively; that this agreement or understanding had the effect of lessening competition in the sale of the films in interstate and foreign
commerce and sustaining the monopoly of the Company
therein; and that its ownership of the three laboratories
and their maintenance in condition for operation, continued to have the effect of inducing and compelling the
manufacturers of prints to use only the films made by
the Company.
On these and subsidiary findings, the Commission entered an order requiring the defendants to cease and desist from combining and cooperating in restraining competition in the manufacture and sale of positive films and
maintaining the monopoly of the Eastman Company in
their sale in interstate and foreign commerce, by the
agreement and understanding that the members of the
Allied Laboratories would use American-made films exclusively, provided the Company would not operate its
laboratories in competition with them, and that the Company would not operate its laboratories for the manufacture of prints in competition with them, provided they
used and continued to use American-made films exclusively; and by other incidental means. And the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

mission further ordered that for the purpose of preventing
the maintenance of the monopoly of the Eastman Company in the manufacture and sale of positive films and
restoring competitive freedom in their distribution and
sale, the Company should with due diligence sell and convey its three laboratories to parties not directly connected,
or indirectly interested, with it.
On a petition by the Eastman Company and the Allied
Laboratories for a review of this order, the Circuit Court
of Appeals-without referring specifically to the purpose
for which the Eastman Company acquired and maintained the three laboratories-held, in substance, that the
reciprocal agreement or understanding between the Eastman Company and the Allied Laboratories that their
members would use only American-made films in the
manufacture of prints, and the Company would not operate its laboratories for the manufacture of prints, was an
unfair method of competition which the Commission had
authority to prevent; but that-one judge dissentingit was not unlawful for the Eastman Company to equip
itself to enter upon the business of manufacturing prints,
there being nothing unfair in its going into this business,
and the Commission had no authority to order the Company to divest itself of the laboratories which it had lawfully acquired. 7 Fed. (2d) 994. A decree was accordingly entered affirming the order of the Commission in
so far as it required the Eastman Company and the Allied
Laboratories to desist from their agreement or understanding in reference to the use of American-made films and
the operation of the Eastman Company's laboratories,
but setting aside the order in so far as it required the
Eastman Company to sell its laboratories, and in other
incidental respects.
This writ of certiorari was then granted on a petition
by the Commission which challenged the correctness of
the decree of the Court of Appeals only in respect to the

FED. TRADE COMM. v. EASTMAN CO.
619

623

Opinion of the Court.

setting aside of so much of the order as required the Eastmfn Company to dispose of its laboratories.
For present purposes we do not find it necessary to
determine the questions whether the finding of the Commission as to the purpose for which the Eastman Company acquired the three laboratories-based in lpart at least
upon inferences from the agreed statement of facts-was
correct, and whether, in any event, it was conclusive upon
the Court of Appeals; but, in the absence of any specific
reference to this matter by the Court of Appeals, we
shall assume the correctness of the Commission's finding,
and proceed, on that assumption, to the consideration of
the only other question presented in the petition for the
Writ of certiorari and pressed in this Court, namely,
whether the Commission had authority to order the Eastman Company to sell and convey its laboratories to other
parties.
The proceeding before the Commission was instituted
under § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and its
authority did not go beyond the provisions of that section. By these the Commission is empowered to prevent
the using of "unfair methods of competition" in interstate and foreign commerce, and, if it finds that "any
unfair method of competition" is being used, to issue an
order requiring the offender "to cease and desist from
using such method of competition." The Commission
exercises only the administrative functions delegated to
it by the Act, not judicial powers. National Harness,
etc. Association v. Federal Trade Commission (C. C. A.),
268 Fed. 705, 707; Chamber of Commerce v. Federal
Trade Commission (C. C. A.), 280 Fed. 45, 48. It has
not been delegated the authority of a court of equity.
And a Circuit Court of Appeals on a petition to review
its order is limited to the question whether or not it has
properly exercised the administrative authority given it
by the Act, and may not sustain or award relief beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the authority of the Commission; such review being appellate and revisory merely, and not an exercise of orig-

inal jurisdiction by the court itself.
The question here presented is in effect ruled by Federal Trade Commission v. Western Meat Co., 272 U. S.
554, 561, 563, in which the decisions in Federal Trade
Commission v. Thatcher Mfg. Co. (C. C. A.), 5 F. (2d)
615, and Swift & Co. v. Federal Trade Commission
(C. C. A.), 8 F. (2d) 595, that were relied upon by the
Commission in its petition for the writ of certiorari, were
reversed by this Court. In that case it was held thatalthough the Commission, having been granted specific
authority by § 11 of the Clayton Act 2 to require a corporation that had acquired the stock of a competitive
corporation in violation of law "to cease and desist from
such violations, and divest itself of the stock held," might
require the corporation to divest itself of such stock in
a manner preventing its use for the purpose of securing
the competitor's property-it could not, after the corporation by the use of such stock had acquired the property of the competitor, require it to divest itself of the
property thus acquired so as to restore the prior lawful
condition. As to this we said: "The Act has no applichtion to ownership of a competitor's property and business obtained prior to any action by the Commission,
even though this was brought about through stock unlawfully held. The purpose of the Act was to prevent
continued holding of stock and the peculiar evils incident
thereto. If purchase of property has produced an unlawful status a remedy is provided through the courts."
And they "must administer whatever remedy there may
be in such situation." Distinct reference was there made
(p. 561) to § 15 of the Clayton Act, where express provision is made for the invocation of judicial remedies as
need therefore may arise.
2 38 Stat. 730, c. 311; U. S. C., Tit. 15, § 21.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. EASTMAN CO.
619

STONE and

BRANDEIS,

625

JJ., dissenting.

So here, the Commission had no authority to require
that the Company divest itself of the ownership of the
laboratories which it had acquired prior to any action
by the Commission. If the ownership or maintenance of
these laboratories has produced any unlawful status, the
remedy must be administered by the courts in appropriate proceedings therein instituted.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

STONB, dissenting.

I am unable to agree that the Federal Trade Commission, in the performance of its duties under the Federal
Trade Commission Act, lacks the power to order the divestment of physical property, or that the decision in
Federal Trade Commission v. Western Meat Company,
272 U. S. 554, forecloses our consideration of that question here. In the Thatcher and Swift cases considered
in that opinion, the stock of competing corporations had
been acquired in violation of § 7 of the Clayton Act, which
prohibits the acquisition by one corporation of the capital stock of another "where the effect of such acquisition
may be to substantially lessen competition." The stock
control having been followed by purchase of the physical
assets of the competing corporations, the Commission,
proceeding under §§ 7 and 11, ordered the offending corporations to divest themselves of both the stock and
the physical property. In deciding that the Commission had exceeded its authority, so far as the property
was concerned, the Court expressly limited its consideration to the grant of power under §§ 7 and 11 of the Clayton Act, § 11 in terms authorizing the Commission to
make an order "requiring such person to cease and desist
from such violations, and divest itself of the stock held
. . . contrary to the provisions of section 7
."
55514'-28-40

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
S&oN

and

BRANmEIs,

JJ., dissenting.

274 U. S.

The effect of § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
dealing with the different subject of unfair competition,
was put to one side, the Court saying: "This section
(referring to § 5) is not presently important; the challenged orders sought to enforce obedience to § 7 of the
Clayton Act." (p. 557.) The scope of the decision was
thus stated: "When the Commission institutes a proceeding based upon the holding of stock contrary to § 7
of the Clayton Act, its power is limited by § 11 to an
order requiring the guilty person to cease and desist from
such violation, effectually to divest itself of the stock,
and to make no further use of it." (p. 561.)
It was not held that the Commission under no circumstances could compel the sale of physical property,
and there was in fact a clear intimation in the opinion
that under § 7 of the Clayton Act the acquisition of the
property after a complaint had been filed against the
corporation for illegal stock purchases would not find the
Commission powerless.
Section 5 of the Trade Commission Act, with which
we are now concerned, declares unlawful "unfair methods of competition in commerce," and empowers and directs the Commission to prevent the use of such methods.
The Commission is directed upon finding that the method
of competition under investigation is prohibited by the
Act, to issue its order "requiring such person, partnership or corporation to cease and desist from using such
method of competition."
The powers thus broadly given sharply contrast with
the specific enumeration of §§ 7 and 11 of the Clayton
Act. As was pointed out in the Western Meat Co. case,
the Clayton Act prohibits only the acquisition of stock
and not the assets of the competing corporation, and in
terms merely authorizes an order requiring the corporation "to cease and desist from such violations, and divest
itself of the stock held.
. ."
For that reason alone,

FED. TRADE COMM. v. EASTMAN CO.
619

SToNE and

BRANDEIs,

627

JJ., dissenting.

the majority of the Court thought that the language of
these provisions was not broad enough to enable the
Commission to order the corporation to divest itself of
the physical assets thus acquired, although their acquisition aggravated and brought to its final consummation
the very evil aimed at by the statute.
The comprehensive language of § 5 neither invites nor
supports a narrow construction. It is general in terms,
and in the authorized prevention of unfair methods of
competition the Commission is not limited to any particular method of making its orders effective. The power
does not any the less exist because the Commission
framed the present order in part in affirmative terms
specifying the manner in which the company should
abandon the unfair method of competition it found had
been practiced. Nor does the fact that the Commission
is not a court of equity lessen the power conferred upon
it by the statute. It is of course essentially an administrative agency. Its orders never have the effect of an
injunction and are enforcible only by proceedings instituted in the appropriate circuit court of appeals. Its
powers are not enhanced by the circumstance that its
orders are enforcible in courts having in their own right
equity powers. But it is likewise true that it cannot be
denied powers granted by Congress merely because its
orders resemble in form familiar equitable decrees. To
make its want of equity powers ground for limiting those
expressly conferred by the statute is to condemn all the
orders ever made by the Commission. Orders compelling
the sale of 'stock, preventing price cutting, local price
discrimination, resale price maintenance, exclusive dealing arrangements, boycotting, blacklisting, disparagement
of competitor's wares, misrepresentation, misbranding,
adulteration, dishonest advertising, espionage, commercial bribery, coercion, threats, intimidation, the use of
"fighting brands" or bogus independents, to mention

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
SToNE and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

274 U. S.

only a few of the practices which the Commission has
forbidden, remind of equitable relief no less than an order
compelling the sale of physical property, the very acquisition and continued possession of which may be the indispensable element in a scheme of unfair competition.
The conclusion seems to me unavoidable, therefore,
that this case cannot be disposed of without determining
whether the acquisition and retention of the film laboratories by the Eastman Company, under the circumstances
disclosed by the record, constituted in itself or was a
part of or a step in an unfair method of competition.
Until that is determined we cannot say that the Commission was without power under § 5 to make any appropriate order to prevent the use of such methods.
That ruinous competition, or the threat of it, when
the aim is monopoly or the suppression of competition,
may be the dominant factor in a violation of the Sherman Act is no longer fairly open to question. But, in
determining the meaning of "unfair methods of competition," it should be borne in mind that the Trade
Commission's function is to discourage certain trade
tendencies before violations of the Sherman Act have occurred. The advised use of the phrase "unfair methods
of competition" for the more familiar "unfair competition" of the common law indicates an unmistakable Congressional intent to confer on the Commission the power,
subject of course to the judicial review provided for in
the Act, to prevent unfair trade practices not included
in the prohibition of the Sherman Act and of the common law. See Henderson, Federal Trade Commission,
36; cf. Federal Trade Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co.,
258 U. S. 483.
In that part of its order which now remains undisturbed, and which is not questioned here, the Commission has found and forbidden the agreement between the
Eastman Company and the Association that the members
of the Association would use American raw film, of which

PED. TRADE COMM. v. EASTMAN CO.
619

620

SToNE and BRANDEIs, JJ., dissenting.

it appears ninety-four per cent. of that used in the United
States is produced by the Eastman Company, to the exclusion of foreign-manufactured film, provided the Eastman Company would not operate its laboratories commercially to produce positive prints in competition with
the members of the Association.
The majority, not having found it necessary to consider whether the stipulated facts established unfair
methods of competition because of the Commission's supposed want of power, any extended review of them here
is uncalled for. But the evidence is sufficient to justify
the inference drawn by the Commission that suppression
of competition in the sale of foreign films, consummated
by this agreement, was accomplished in part at least by
the acquisition and retention of these laboratories as a
constant and imminent threat~to members of the Association of competition in the business field they occupy.
Superficial examination might suggest that the respondent's course of conduct involves nothing more than
the innocuous process of extending its business to include
an allied trade, but the matter may not be thus lightly
disposed of. We may lay aside the question whether one
already possessing monopoly powers in one field; especially where as here there is no available substitute for
his products, may make use of his strategic position to
dominate all phases of the industry from production to
consumption. For here it seems fairly inferable from the
stipulated facts that there was no intention of permanent
expansion. The Eastman Company threatened to engage in temporary competition with the manufacturers
of prints in order to attain its objective-the suppression
of foreign competition in raw film. When that was attained, the laboratories were allowed to remain idle, and
the assumed advantages to the public from permanent
competition: were lacking. I have no difficulty in concluding that this threat of temporary competition was
unfair to the Eastman Company's purchasers and to its

