76

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. KENTUCKY.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY
Nos. 33, 34. Argued March 15, 16, 1926.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. A State may tax property permanently within its jurisdiction
belonging to one domiciled elsewhere and used to carry on commerce among the States. Where railroad property is a part of
a system and has its actual use only in connection with other
parts of the system, that fact may be considered even though
other parts of the system are outside the State. The mileage
basis of apportionment can not be adopted in the taxation of railroad franchises where the result is shown to be arbitrarily excessive.
P. 80.
2. The value of the physical elements of a railroad-whether that
value be deemed actual cost, cost of reproduction new, cost of
reproduction less depreciation or some other figure--is not the sole
measure of or guide to its value in operation; much weight is to
be given to present and prospective earning capacity at rates that
are reasonable, having regard to traffic available and competitive
and other conditions prevailing in the territory served. P. 81.
3. No intangibole element of substantial amount over and above the
value of its physical parts inheres in a railroad that can not earn
a reasonable rate of return on the amount attributable in valuation
to its bare-bones-as the mere tangible elements properly may be
called. P. 82.
4. While the mileage used as an integral part of a railroad system
may have elements of value that it otherwise would not possess
and the State properly may have regard to the whole in order to
ascertain the value of the part that is within its borders, it is not
permissible to take into account any of the outside property unless
it can be seen in some plain and fairly intelligible way that it adds
to the value of the road and the rights exercised in the State.
P. 82.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
76

Opinion of the Court.

5. Facts examined and held that the additional values of intangible
property on which taxes in question were based are arbitrarily
excessive and include values of system property beyond the State.
P. 85.
6. Record examined and cause held reviewable on .writ of error.
P. 86.
204 Ky. 388, reversed.

THEsE were proceedings by the Commonwealth instituted in a county court, for the purpose of listing for
taxation intangible property of the railway alleged to
have been omitted. The first was against the railway
alone, covering the years 1914-1916. The second sought
like relief for the years 1917-1918, during which the
Director General of Railroads operated the railway system. The proceedings, tried together throughout, were
dismissed by the county court, and by the circuit court,
on appeal. The judgment of the latter was reversed in
193 Ky. 474. Judgments recovered on resubmission to
the circuit court were affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
except that, in respect of the years 1914 and 1916, the
judgment in the first case was reversed. 204 Ky. 388.
Mr. Edward P. Humphrey, with whom Messrs. L. E.
Jefferies, Alex P. Humphrey, and Charles W. Milner were
on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. P. Hobson, with whom Messrs. L. W. Morris,
D. L. Hazelrigg, and Frank Daugherty, Attorney General
of Kentucky, were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE BuTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
A judgment against plaintiffs in error for franchise
taxes imposed under the laws of Kentucky in respect of

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

, 274 U. S.

certain lines of railway was affirmed by the highest court
of that State. 204 Ky. 388. And see 193 Ky. 474. Reversal is sought on the ground that as applied these laws
contravene the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The statutes* (§§4077-4081) provide that every foreign
or domestic railway company, in addition to other taxes
imposed by law, shall pay an annual tax on its franchise.
The provisions apply whether the privilege is exercised by
the corporation in its own name or in the name of another
which it adopts. A company's railway system is deemed
to include lines operated, leased or controlled whether
technically owned or not. The tax is on intangible property. Where the railroad is partly within and partly without the State, the value of the intangible property so to
be taxed may be determined substantially as follows:
capitalize the net railway operating income of the entire
system for the accounting year last ended; assign to Kentucky its mileage proportion of that amount; deduct the
assessed value of the tangible property otherwise taxed;
and the remainder is the value taken as the basis for the
franchise taxes. When the railroad is wholly within the
State, the capitalized net, less the assessed value of tangible property on which other taxes are paid, is taken to
be the value of intangible property. Greene v. Louis. &
InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S. 499, 510, and cases cited;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 522, 539.
Plaintiff in error, the Southern Railway Company, is a
Virginia corporation. The lines of its system of railroads,
exclusive of the Kentucky mileage in question, exceed
9500 miles and extend from Washington, D. C., into Virginia, the Carolinas, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Alabama and Mississippi. The company also has a line from
New Albany, Indiana, to East Saint Louis, Illinois. It does
*The provisions are printed in the marginof Louis. & Nash. R. R.
Co. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 522, at page 533.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
76

Opinion of the Court.

not own any railroad in Kentucky. The "Southern Railway Company in Kentucky" owns 127.63 miles, all of
which are in that State. Its branches connect with the
line of the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific
Railway Company which extends from Cincinnati to
Chattanooga and connects it with the system. Its stock
is owned by the Virginia company. The same persons
are officers of "both. The lines of the Kentucky company
are reported to public authorities and are advertised as a
part of the system. The Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, the Cumberland Railroad Company, and the Cumberland Railway Company own, in all, about 53.3 miles
of railroad in Kentucky, but their lines are not connected
with the lines of the Southern Railway Company in Kentucky. The Virginia company through stock ownership
controls these companies; but they and the Southern Railway in Kentucky, in their own names and as owners, made
reports and paid in full all taxes assessed under Kentucky
laws on their tangible and intangible properties.
The Commonwealth brought this suit against the Virginia company and the Director General to recover additional franchise or intangible property taxes for 1918 and
1919 in respect of the Kentucky mileage of these companies. The Court of Appeals held that there was no such
connection or unity, of use between the system of the Virginia company and the lines of the Mobile and Ohio, the
Cumberland Railroad, and the Cumberland Railway as
would justify recovery of any franchise taxes in respect
of their Kentucky mileage. Stipulated facts tended to
show that the Virginia company controlled the Cincinnati,
New Orleans and Texas Pacific; and the court held that
by means of its lines the railroad of the Southern Railway in Kentucky was so connected with the lines of the
Virginia company as to be a part of the system. The
value of intangible property adjudged to have been
omitted, and on which the additional franchise taxes were

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

calculated, for 1918 was $1,730,090.02 and for 1919 was
$3,028,592.62. These amounts were arrived at as follows: the net railway operating income for the entire
system was capitalized at seven per cent.; there was deducted an amount to cover the value of shops, terminals
and double tracks outside Kentucky in excess of corresponding tangible property connected with the lines in
that State; there was allocated to Kentucky such proportion of the remainder as 424.61 miles, which were attributed to Kentucky, bore to the total mileage of the system;
that amount was equalized for taxation at 75 per cent. for
1918 and at 85 per cent. for 1919; and from the result
there was deducted the values of tangible and intangible
property (including the Kentucky mileage of the Cincinnati, New Orleans ana Texas Pacific) on which taxes had
been paid. But the average value per mile so deducted
was less than the system average per mile. The amounts
so arrived at were assigned to the 127.63 miles of the
Southern Railway Company in Kentucky and the 197.5
miles in Kentucky of the lines of the Cincinnati, New
Orleans and Texas Pacific. The increase per mile for
1918 was $5,334.55 and for 1919 was $9,338.34.
The Court of Appeals rightly declared that a State may
tax property permanently within its jurisdiction belonging to one domiciled elsewhere and used to carry on commerce among the States; that, where property is a part
of a system and has its actual use only in connection
with other parts of the system, that fact may be considered even though other parts of the system are outside
the State; that the State may not tax property outside
its jurisdiction belonging to one domiciled elsewhere, and
that the mileage basis of apportionment cannot be
adopted in the taxation of railroad franchises where the
result is shown to be arbitrarily excessive. These propositions are derived from the decisions of this Court.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
76

Opinion -of the Court.

Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490, 499; Pittsburgh, &c. Railway Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 427-431; Union Tank
Line Co. v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275, 282; Wallace v. Hines,
253 U. S. 66, 69.
The question is whether the State made valid application of the governing principles. The value of tangible
property is not involved in this case. The demand of
the Commonwealth against the plaintiffs in error was
for taxes on intangible properties over and above the
amounts that had been paid by the owning companies.
And the entire amount added as a basis for additional
taxes is attributable only to the lines of the Southern
Railway Company in Kentucky. There was no claim
for any taxes in respect of the lines of the Cincinnati,
New Orleans and Texas Pacific. That company had also
reported its earnings and paid taxes on its tangible and
intangible properties in Kentucky. These taxes were
based on values per mile in excess of the average values
per mile for the system arrived at by capitalization of
net railway operating income in accordance with the
rule applied by the State. No part of the amounts adjudged to have been omitted could properly be assigned
thereto. The Mobile and Ohio, the Cumberland Railroad, and the Cumberland Railway were held not to be a
part of the system. Plaintiffs in error insist that the
enforcement of the taxes on these amounts, as measuring
the additional values of intangible properties inhering
in the lines of the Southern Railway Company in Kentucky, operates to tax the property of the Virginia company located beyond the borders of Kentucky and that
such amounts are arbitrarily excessive.
The value of the physical elements of a railroadwhether that value be deemed actual cost, cost of reproduction new, cost of reproduction less depreciation or
some other figure-is not the sole measure of or guide to
551&°O28----6

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

its value in operation. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466,
547. Much weight is to be given to present and prospective earning capacity at rates that are reasonable, having

regard to traffic available and competitive and other conditions prevailing in the territory served. No intangible
element of substantial amount over and above the value
of its physical parts inheres in a railroad that cannot
earn a reasonable rate of return on its bare-bones-as the
mere tangible elements properly may be called. See
Omaha v. Omaha Water Co., 218 U. S. 180, 202.
The amount adjudged to have been omitted equals an
increase on the lines of the Southern Railway Company
in Kentucky of $13,555 per mile for 1918 and of $23,730
for 1919. The 1917 average net operating income per
mile for the system was the basis for determining the
Kentucky franchise taxes for 1918, and the average for
1918 controlled the amount of the 1919 taxes. The average for the system was $3,642 per mile for 1917 and
was $3,623 for 1918. The corresponding net income
per mile of the Southern Railway Company in Kentucky for 1917 was $878. There was a loss of $4,741
per mile in 1918. The record also shows a loss in each
of the years 1914, 1915 and 1916. The average for the
five years was a loss of $1,230 per mile per year.
If considered alone, the railroad of the Southern Railway Company in Kentucky would be a losing venture.
Its operating loss was more than $157,000 per year for
the average of the five years reported in the record. But,
assuming it a part of the system, it is right to take into
consideration the parts outside the State that are operated
in connection with it. The mileage used as an integral
part of a railroad system may have elements of value that
it otherwise would not possess, and the State properly
may have regard to the whole in order to ascertain the
value of the part that is within its borders. Fargov. Hart,
supra, 499. But, if the method pursued in valuing prop

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
76

Opinion of the Court.

erty within the State is arbitrary and the resulting valuation is grossly excessive, the tax must be condemned as
in contravention of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright,
supra, 282, and cases cited. It is not permissible for the
State to take into account any of the outside property
"unless it can be seen in some plain and fairly intelligible
way that it adds to the value of the road and the rights
exercised in the State." Wallace v. Hines, supra, 69.
The operating results of the system compared with
those of the Southern Railway Company in Kentucky
show that, on the basis of valuation adopted by the State,
the average value per mile of the lines of that company
is very much less than the average value per mile of the
system. If taken separately it is clear that, because of
lack of net earnings, no substantial intangible elements
of value could reasonably be attributed to the railroad
of that company. In order to justify the increases made,
there would have to be attributed to these lines large
amounts from system earnings. To sustain the addition
for 1919, it is necessary to take enough to overcome the
deficit of $4,741 per mile plus a fair return on the -value
of the physical property and on the $23,730 per mile fixed
as a basis for additional taxes. The draft on earnings
from other parts of the system to sustain the increase
for 1918 would not be so heavy. But it is equally obvious
that there is no foundation for the fifiding that there
existed in these lines intangible values of $1,730,090 or
any other substantial amount in excess of the value fairly
to be attributed to the physical elements of the railroad.
If intangible elements were attributed to the system at
the same rate per mile as results from the distribution of
the added amount to the mileage of the Southern Railway
in Kentucky, their value would be more than $200,000,000
for 1919 and more than $120,000,000 for 1918. Clearly
there is no foundation for any such results. The mere

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

statement of the figures is sufficient to show that the
amount added as a basis for franchise taxes is so excessive
and unreasonable that it cannot be sustained; and such
an application of the system earnings amounts to an
attempt to tax property outside the State. And as the
direct earnings ppr mile of the lines of that company are
so much less than the average for the system, it is plain
that the amount adjudged to have been omitted was
arbitrarily excessive and included values of system property beyond the limits of Kentucky.
Moreover, the percentages used to make the apportionment to Kentucky were too high. Reference to the figures
for 1919 will be sufficient. There was taken 4.273 per
cent. of $432,326,444.12, the system value to be apportioned. The system mileage was 9939.1, and that used
for the apportionment was 424.61. The Southern Railway Company in Kentucky had 127.63 miles, the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific, 197.5, the Mobile
and Ohio, 38.693, the Cumberland Railroad, 12.9, and the
Cumberland Railway, 1.74. As the court held that the
lines of the three companies last mentioned were not so
connected with the system that plaintiffs in error were
liable in respect of them, their mileage was erroneously
included in the factor used for apportionment to the lines
taxed. And for the reasons stated the mileage of the
Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific should not
have been included. The mileage used to make the apportionment was more than three times that of the Southern
Railway in Kentucky, and was more than thirty per
cent. in excess of the combined mileage of that company
and the Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific.
Obviously deduction of the lesser values of the Kentucky
mileage on which the owners had paid taxes did not
eliminate the error.
The enforcement of the franchise taxes so assessed
would violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
Opinion of the Court.

76

The Commonwealth asserts that in the Kentucky courts
the company did not make "the objection which is made
here that this was a tax on property outside the State."
But the record shows the contrary. The petition alleged
that a portion of the Kentucky franchise had been omitted
from assessment and prayed that such portion be assessed
and taxed. The answer of plaintiffs in error not only
denied liability and alleged that to hold the company liable and to attempt to add to that assessment would be
a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, but it also
stated: "Defendants say that the effort made herein is
simply for the purpose of endeavoring to bring into the
State of Kentucky for purposes of taxation, property not
in Kentucky, and values appertaining to property not in
Kentucky, and earnings derived from property not in
Kentucky; that to do this would be in violation of . .
the Constitution of the United States, particularly the
Fourteenth Amendment thereof." In its first decision
(193 Ky. 474), the Court of Appeals said (p. 488): "it
is our conclusion, therefore, that the court should have
assessed against defendant [Southern Railway Company
of Virginia] Kentucky's portion of the intangible property
assessed by the proportion of the mileage that the lines
nominally operated by the 'Southern Railway Company
in Kentucky' bear to the entire mileage of defendant's
system estimated according to the method provided by
the statute. But it is insisted that this would result in
taxing in Kentucky property having no situs here.
"

Then follows the court's answer to that conten-

tion. This shows that the court. distinctly recognized and
passed upon the contention that the imposition of the
additional franchise taxes would be to tax property outside Kentucky. That decision, according to the local rule,
not only bound the lower court, but controlled the disposition of the case on the second appeal. Hopkins v.
Adam Roth Grocery Co., 105 Ky. 357, 358.

The objec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRAiNEIS, J., dissenting.

274 U. S.

tions were reiterated in an amended answer filed after the
first decision. And the Court. of Appeals in its second
decision declared that the additional assessments "were
made in accordance with and are concluded by the former
opinion herein." Clearly, the objections made in the
state courts were sufficient. They went to the point that,
as proposed to be applied and enforced, the state statutes
would operate to tax property outside and beyond the
jurisdiction of Kentucky in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment. And, notwithstanding these objections, the Court of Appeals in its first decision directed
the making of these additional assessments; and, in its
second decision, declared that they had been made as
directed and affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court
by which they were determined.
A petition for certiorari was filed, but, as the case is
properly here on writ of error, the petition will be denied.
Judgment reversed on writ of error.
Petition for certioraridenied.
MR. JUSTICE BRmDEIs,

dissenting.

I do not consider the merits of this case, because, in my
opinion, it should be affirmed on a point of practice which
was urged here by the Commonwealth. On writ of error
to a state court, even where, as here, this Court has jurisdiction, no objection is reviewable which was not made
there. The question on which the judgment of the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky is reversed was not raised or
passed upon below.
The claim made below was that the Southern could
not be taxed at all in Kentucky under the unit rule and
that, therefore, the statute as applied was void. DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 288-290.
The Commonwealth admitted that the Southern, a Virginia corporation, did not own the Kentucky lines di-

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
76

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

rectly. The Southern admitted that it controlled them
by stock ownership. In support of the claim that the unit
rule could not be applied, the Southern made two contentions. The first was dealt with by the Court of Appeals in
its first opinion, 193 Ky. 474; the second, in its second
opinion, 204 Ky. 388. The first contention was that the
unit rule could have no application, because the Southern
was not doing business in Kentucky. That contention
the Court of Appeals decided against the Southern for all
the years; and this Court affirms the ruling. The second
contention was that the unit rule did not apply, because
there was not unity of use and operation of the Kentucky
lines with its lines elsewhere. The question depended
upon the amount of control exercised by the Southern
Railway Company over the C., N. 0. & T. P. Railway,
which connected the Southern Railway in Kentucky with
the rest of the Southern system. This contention the
Court of Appeals decided in favor of the Southern for the
years 1914, 1915 and 1916; but against it for the years
1917 and 1918. With this ruling also this Court agrees.
The reversal by this Court is based on an entirely different
claim. It is on the ground that the method of assessment used was such as to furnish, as a basis for the franchise tax, an amount so unreasonable and arbitrary as
to involve taxation of property outside the State, in view
(1) of the fact that the per mile earnings of the entire system were so much larger than the per mile earnings of
the Southern in Kentucky, and (2) of the supposed use
of too large a percentage intended to represent the proportion of the mileage in Kentucky to the total mileage of
the system.
The Court of Appeals recognized clearly that it could
not tax in Kentucky any property outside its limits. It
upheld the tax as an increase of assessment upon property
located confessedly in Kentucky, applying the rule of
Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S.330, 338, that "if

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

274 U. S.

the property be part of a system and have an augmented

value by reason of a connected operation of the whole, it
may be taxed according to its value as part of the system,
although the other parts be outside the State;-in other
words, the tax may be made to cover the enhanced value
which comes to the property in the State through its
organic relation to the system."
Applying the unit rule, however, there are two grounds
on which a decision sustaining the claim that property
outside the State has been taxed might have rested, if
the appropriate claim had been made below. It might
have been held that the statute, so far as it required the
adoption of the mileage plan of valuation, was void as
applied, because the different character of the lines outside Kentucky precluded the application of the per mile
method as a basis of valuation. Compare Fargov. Hart,
193 U. S. 490; Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66, 69. Or it
might have been held that the tax was void, because the
additional assessment based on mileage without the State
was so arbitrary and unreasonable in amount as to violate
due process. Compare Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright,
249 U. S. 275; Wallace v. Hines, 253 U. S. 66, 69-70. But
neither of these claims was made in the court below.
The only contentions made there were those which this
Court and the lower court agree in holding unfoundednamely, that the Southern was not doing business in Kentucky and that there was no such unity of use and operation of the lines within and those without the State as to
permit of the application of the unit rule.'
'The reason urged by the Southern in support of the second contention was, as the second opinion recites, that the Kentucky lines
"had neither physical nor operative connection with lines outside of
the state

.

.

.

and that to apply the notion of organic unity to

all its lines under such circumstances is violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, in that it brings
into Kentucky for taxation purposes values wholly outside of the

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
76

BRANDEts, J.,

89

dissenting.

The second opinion of the Kentucky Court of Appeals
recites that "it is admitted that the assessments for
1917 and 1918 were made in accordance with and are
concluded by our former opinion." Hence it was necessary for the plaintiff in error'to show that the objections
insisted upon in this Court were raised upon the first
trial or the appeal in the state court.' A consideration
state. Whether or not this is true is the sole question presented for
decision upon these appeals." The Court of Appeals decided the
second contention in favor of the Southern for the years 1914, 1915
and 1916, because it concluded "that there was in fact no physical
connection between the Northern branch and the Southern branch of
the defendant's lines, and that despite the defendant's ownership and
control of both of these separate branches, they cannot, under the
many decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, be considered as parts of a single system for the purpose of ascertaining the
value of defendant's franchise employed in Kentucky without violating the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution." It held
the Southern taxable for the years 1917 and 1918 because in 1917 the
"defendant acquired the C. N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., and thus unified
all of its holdings into a single unit of use and management." In considering the situation for the earlier years it stated: "The question
for decision then finally narrows to whether for the purpose of valuing defendant's franchise employed in Kentucky, the line from Danville, Kentucky, to St. Louis, Mo., is to be considered as a separate
unit or as a part of a system including also defendant's eastern and
southern lines."
2
As showing that they were raised, this Court relies upon the allegation of the answer that "the effort made herein is simply for the
purpose of endeavoring to bring into the State of Kentucky for purposes of taxation, property not in Kentucky; . . . that to do
this would be in violation of . . . the Fourteenth Amendment,"

and upon a quotation from the first opinion of the Kentucky Court
of Appeals to the effect that "it is insisted that this would result in
taxing in Kentucky property having no situs here.

.

.

."

The

reliance of this Court appears to rest upon a misapprehension. On
the first trial, the lower courts dismissed the State's petition. As no
method of assessment was before the Court of Appeals, it could not,
in its first opinion, have passed upon the arbitrariness of this or any
other method of assessment. See 193 Ky. 474, 489.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDils,

J., dissenting.

274 U. S.

of the entire answer and of the entire first opinion make
it altogether clear that the contention, which was advanced by the answer and refuted by the opinion, consisted solely of the claim that any assessment against
the Southern would be uncbnstitutional as taxing property outside- the State because the Southern was not
doing business within the State. Neither the record nor
the opinion of the Court of Appeals discloses that there
was an objection to the assessment as such. Nowhere
in the opinion is there any reference to the figures
urged here as showing the arbitrariness of the statute as
applied.
It cannot be said "that the necessary effect in law of
a judgment, which is silent upon the question, is the
denial of a claim or right which might have been involved
therein, but which in fact was never in any way set up
or spoken of." Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 200.
The rule that a claim or right which was not asserted in
the state court cannot be deemed to have been denied,
and hence cannot be insisted upon in this Court has been
long established.3 It is true also that the party defeated
upon a federal question in a state court will not be limited in this Court to the same argument upon that question, Dewey v. Des Moines, supra, at p. 198; and that,
if the federal question is properly raised, it is immaterial
that the state court may have refused to discuss the
point. Erie R. R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S. 148, 154. But
3 In 1836 Mr. Justice Story, because of the fact "that a different
impression exists at the bar," reviewed all the cases that had reached
this Court from the state courts, finding that they exhibited "an
uniformity of interpretation

.

.

.

which has never been broken

in upon," requiring that, in order to give the Court jurisdiction, the
question sought to be reviewed had both to be raised in the court
below and there decided. Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368, 392, 398.
By 1894 Chief Justice Fuller regarded such principles as "axiomatic."
California Powder Works v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389, 393. The rule is
still inflexible. New York v. Klinert, 268 II. S. 646.

