KADOW v. PAUL.
Syllabus.

160

This conclusion leads to a reversal of the decree of the
District Court of Appeals and a remanding of the case to
the Supreme Court of the District with direction to disReversed.
miss the bill.
MRi.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
The separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.
I think the decree below should be affirmed-the Commission went beyond any power granted by Congress.
This appeal was taken four years ago. Nearly seven
years have passed since the cause began-June 12, 1920.
Able counsel have argued it twice before us, but none
suggested that the trial court erred in failing to dismiss
the bill because there was an adequate remedy at law.
Under well-settled doctrine such a defense may be waived
by failure promptly to advance it. Reynes v. Dumont,
130 U. S. 354, 395; Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481, 484; American Mills Co. v. American
Surety Co., 260 U. S. 360, 363.
In my view it is now much too late for this court first
to set up and then maintain the defense of lack of jurisdiction in the trial court, and I cannot acquiesce in the disposition of the cause upon that instable ground. The real
issue should be met and determined.

KADOW ET A. v. PAUL ET AL. COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHEINGTON.

No. 241.

Argued March 16, 1927.-Decided April 18, 1927.

1. Section 4439-6 of the Laws of Washington, 1923, which provides
a supplemental assessment on the lands within drainage districts
to make up any deficiency resulting from the elimination or avoidance of any original assessment, does not intend that the assess-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

ment of any land owner may thus be increased beyond the benefits
derived by him from the improvement. P. 180.
2. Where part of the land in a spbeial improvement district fails
to pay its assessment and is appropriated and sold, any deficit
thus arising may constitutionally be met by additional assessments
on the lands of the district, provided the law operates uniformly
as against all parts of it and the assessments of the respective land
owners are not made to exceed the benefits they receive from the
improvement. P. 181.
134 Wash. 539, affirmed.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Washington
which affirmed a decree dismissing the petition in a suit
brought by a number of the owners of land within a
drainage district to restrain the making of the improvement and the issuance of bonds to pay for it.
Mr. Homer D. Angell, with whom Mr. Henry Crass
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. A. L. Miller, with whom Mr. Charles P. Swindler
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. C'HiEF JusTics TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a decree of the Supreme Court
of Washington. The original action was brought in the
Superior Court of Clarke County, of that State, to have
the proceedings in the organization of Diking Improvement District No. 3 of that county declared void, because certain portions of the statute under which the
district was formed were unconstitutional, and to restrain
the defendants from taking any steps looking to the construction of the proposed improvement or the sale by the
county of bonds to finance it. After a trial on the merits,
the trial court dismissed the petition, and an appeal was
taken to the Suprem& Court of the State, where the

KADOW v. PAUL.
175

Opinion of the Court.

decree of the trial court was affirmed. The proposed
improvement was sought to be made under Chapter VI,
Title XXVII, Rem. Comp. Stat., as amended by c. 4G of
the Laws of 1923. This law, by § 4407, 4408, 4410,
4411, 4412, 4414, 4415, 4416, 4422, 4435-1, makes provision for the establishment of a diking district initiated
by a petition addressed to the Board of County Commissioners of the county in which the improvement is
located, signed by certain owners of property to be
benefited, the petition to set forth with reasonable
certainty the location, route and terminal of the dike.
Thereafter, the usual provisions are made for the giving
of notice, the hearing upon the question of the wisdom
and public benefit of the improvement, an estimate of
the damage to each landowner which may be done by
the improvement, and also of the benefits it will effect
for each, and the total number of acres that will be benefited. The county commissioners are to have the aid of
the county engineer. The proposed improvement is to
be approved by the state Reclamation Board. Full provision is made for hearings at which the damages and
the benefits shall be determined and apportioned to the
various landowners. and for appeals to a court in such
determinations. A board of supervisors of the district
are elected, who attend to the construction of the improvement. The cost of the improvement is to be paid
by assessment upon the property benefited, and all the
lands included within the boundaries of the district, and
assessed for the improvement, are to remain liable for
the costs of the improvement until the same are fully
paid. One permitted: method of meeting the cost is by
bonds. These are not to be obligations of the county,
though they are issued by it.
The object of this particular improvement was to reclaim lands on the east bank of the Columbia River,
5,5514°-28--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 UT.
S.

which were swampy and subject to overflow at times of
high water. It also had for its purpose the draining of
Lake Shillapoo. The first petition covered 6,500 acres.
After the organization of the district had proceeded to
the point where bonds were ready to be sold, it was permitted to remain dormant for three years, when a second
petition was filed with the County Commissioners, and
thereafter the district was regularly established, comprising 5,100 acres of land. It was determined that the
project should be financed by the issuing of bonds to run
for fifteen years. The commissioners advertised for the
letting of the contract for the improvement and for
the sale of the bonds. On the day before the date set,
the plaintiffs in error began the present action. In the
state court there were may objections to the validity
of the proceedings, and all of them were decided against
the plaintiffs.
The counsel for plaintiffs in error in this Court concede that the only point which they can press here grows
out of an amendment to the Diking Law, § 4439-6 of
Session Laws of Washington for 1923, pages 128, 129,
with reference to reassessments. It reads as follows:
"If upon the foreclosure of the assessment upon any
property the same shall not sell for enough to pay the
assessment against it, or if any property assessed was
not subject to assessment, or if any assessment made
shall have been eliminated by foreclosure of a tax lien
or made void in any other manner, the board of county
commissioners shall cause a supplemental assessment to
be made on the property benefited by the improvement,
including property upon which any assessment shall have
been so eliminated or made void, and against the county,
cities and towns chargeable therewith in the manner provided for the original assessment, to cover the deficiency
so caused in the original assessment." The italicized
words were put in by the amendment in 1923.
It is argued for plaintiffs in error that by this statute
it is attempted to give power to the county officers, upon

KADOW v. PAUL.
175

Opinion of the Court.

the foreclosure of the assessment upon any property, t.o
reassess the deficit upon the remaining lands in the district, and that this permits them to ignore the original
apportionment and to reassess lands within' the district
for the remainder of the cost of the improvement, the
benefit of which inures to other lands in the district;
that this violates the principle that assessments must be
apportioned in accordance with the benefits received, and
is not due process of law. It is said that this complaint
is particularly pertinent to the case at bar, because a
large area of the diking district involved comprises the
bottom of Shillapoo Lake and contiguous low lands bordering it, the value of which is nothing at the present
time, and the value of which may continue to be nothing
after the system of improvement is eitablished, for the
reason that it has not been ascertained that the bed of
the lake and the low lands surrounding it are of such
composition as to permit their use for agricultural purposes even after they are drained; that, if such lands
prove valueless, the assessment charges against the
same will not be paid; and by the reassessment
provision the cost thereof will be reassessed against
the remaining land in the district, which will increase
the cost to such lands far in excess of the benefits received. In answering the objection that the condition
feared has not yet arisen, is premature and may never
arise and that such owners can apply for relief when
conditions arise making it necessary, it is said that the
bonds in question, the issuing of which the plaintiffs in
error are seeking to have enjoined, are to be sold under
the provisions of this law with the reassessment feature
as a part thereof, and that they become at once a cloud
upon the title of plaintiffs, make it unmarketable, and
to that extent tend to confiscate.their property and work
a taking without due process of law. It is said that if the
reassessment feature violates the Federal Constitution, a
court of equity should afford relief at the outset to the
land owners within the district.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

-

274 U. S.

The Diking Act specifically provides, § 4421, Session
Laws of Washington for 1923, page 114, that the cost
of the improvement shall be paid by assessment upon
the property benefited, said assessment to be levied and
apportioned as thereinafter prescribed. In Foster v.
Commissioners of Cowlitz County, 100 Wash. 502, the
Supreme Court of the State, in discussing a similar objection under this ict though it has since been amended in
one respect, used this language:
"In so far as the question of due process in the charging
of the cost of the improvement to the property benefited
thereby is concerned, counsel's contention is also untenable. Owners of property within the district are given
notice and opportunity to be heard upon the question of
the creation of tle district and the construction of the
improvement. When it comes to charging the cost of
the improvement against the several tracts of land within
the district, such charge must be 'in proportion to the
benefits accruing thereto,' and we think the statute also
means that no tract of land can be charged in excess
of the benefits accruing thereto. Owners of the land
within the district to be charged with any portion of the
cost of the improvement are given notice and opportunity
to be heard upon the question of benefits and the apportionment of the charge to be made therefor against
the several tracts. Not until all this is done is the
assessment finally levied."
It is said that this language of the Washington court
can not now be regarded as a limitation to benefits of
assessments against any particular lot of land because of
the amendment of 1923, already referred to, by which the
supplemental assessments may include deficits in the total
assessments occasioned by elimination or voiding of previous assessments on the other lands in the district.
It seems clear to us that there is nothing in this amendment which changes the rule of construction of the statute
as laid down by the Supreme CQurt in. the Fo8ter case,

