NEW YORK DOCK CO. v. POZNAN.
112

Statement of the Case.

ordered because the verdict was excessive may be found
in the early common law, see Wood v. Gunston, Style
466; Chambers v. Robinson, 2 Stra. 691, it was not until
much later that the formal practice developed, Duberley
v. Gunning, 4 T. R. 654; Wilford v. Berkeley, 1 Burr. 610;
Mayne, Damages, 691, and the fixed rules of damage
evolved.
Judgment affirmed.
NEW YORK DOCK COMPANY v. STEAMSHIP
POZNAN, ETC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 229. Argued March 15, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. Wharfage service rendered to an arrested ship with the approval
or permission of the admiralty court and inuring to the benefit
of the fund arising from her sale is entitled to preference, in the
distribution of the fund, over the claims of libeling cargo owners.
P. 120.
2. Such preference- is not based on a lien but is an incident of the
equitable administration of the fund. P. 120.
3. A finding of a special commissioner, confirmed by the District
Court, as to the reasonable value of wharfage should not be
disturbed here when based on a fair trial and sustained by
evidence. P. 123.
4. Objections respecting the amount so found, not raised or considered below, will be examined here only so far as necessary to
make certain that no palpable error was committed. P. 123.
9 F. (2d) 838, reversed.
297 Fed. 345, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

(269 U. S. 547) to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the District
Court, in admiralty, allowing preferential payment of
wharfage out of a fund arising from the sale of a vessel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

Mr. Alexander J. Field, with whom Messrs. Joseph S.
Auerbach, Charles E. Hotchkiss, and Charles H. Tuttle
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. George W. Betts, Jr., and Mark W. Maclay, with
whom Edna F. Rapallo was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUsTIcE STONE, delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case involves the right of a wharf owner to preferential payment from the proceeds of a vessel, for wharfage furnished the vessel while in the custody of a United
States marshal under a warrant of arrest in admiralty.
The owner of the S. S. Poznan entered into a contract
with petitioner, the owner of a private pier in New York
harbor, for the use of the pier for discharging cargo from
December 1, 1920 until completion. The rate agreed upon
was $250 per day, plus certain incidental charges not now
material. On December 2, 1920, the Poznan was made
fast to the pier. Later in the day, she was arrested by the
United States marshal for the district upon libels, afterward consolidated into a single cause, for non-delivery
of the vessel's cargo and for damages for breach of contracts of affreightment. The marshal allowed the vessel
to remain at the pier. Later, on application of one of
the libelling cargo owners, the district court ordered the
delivery of a part of the cargo which that libellant had
shipped, and made the order applicable to all other libellants who should make a like claim. The discharge of the
cargo was then begun and deliveries were made to the
several libellants in the consolidated cause, including respondent, the John B. Harris Co.
After the cargo had been about one-half discharged,
the charterer applied to the district court for leave to
move the vessel to another pier where the cargo could
be removed more expeditiously. But, on request of some
of the libellants and a committee representing the ship-

NEW YORK DOCK CO. v. S. S. POZNAN.
117

119

Opinion of the Court.

pers, the application was denied on January 5, 1921. The
vessel was unloaded by February 18, 1921. Delivery of
the cargo from the pier was completed March 1, 1921,
but the vessel remained fast to the pier to and including
March 11, 1921, when she was removed.
Meanwhile, the marshal having declined to pay the bill
for wharfage without an order of the court, petitioner, in
April, 1921, filed its libel against the vessel for the balance
of wharfage charges unpaid, aggregating $17,462. By
order of the district court, the libellants in the consolidated cause were permitted to intervene. Respondent, the
John B. Harris Co., served notice of intervention, and
filed its answer denying the allegations in the libel and
praying that it be dismissed on the ground, among others,
that the wharfage was furnished while the vessel was in
the custody of the marshal, and hence no maritime lien
could arise. Respondent has since prosecuted the defense
in behalf of all the other libellants in the consolidated
cause.
The vessel was later sold under an order in the consolidated cause and the proceeds, which were not enough
to satisfy the libellants, paid into the registry of the court.
The libellants in the consolidated suit have made common
cause by stipulation that the recovery under the final
decree should be paid to trustees and distributed in ac-

cordance with the instructions of a committee representing all of them. The committee found the total claims
of the libellants to exceed the amount of the proceeds of
the ship. A pro rata distribution has been made to the
claimants and an adequate amount reserved to pay the
demand of the petitioner, if allowed in this suit. The
marshal, although refusing petitioner's request for payment of the wharfage charge, nevertheless included it
in his bill of costs and expenses in the consolidated cause
and charged his commission on this amount. The court
disallowed these items but "without prejudice to any

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

rights of the New York Dock Company to have recourse
against the proceeds of the vessel
The district court, in the present libel, allowed as a
preferential payment from the proceeds of the ship, the
reasonable value of the benefits resulting to the consolidated libellants from the wharfage and incidental service
furnished by petitioner, to be determined by a special
master. This was found by the master and held by the
district court to be the reasonable value of the wharfage.
A decree for this amount, less certain payments on account
made by the owner of the ship, pursuant to the original
contract of wharfage, 297 Fed. 345, was reversed by the
circuit court of appeals for the second circuit. 9 F.
(2d) 838. This Court granted certiorari. 269 U. S. 547.
The court below held that as the wharfage was furnished after the arrest of the ship, and while it was in the
custody of the law, no maritime lien could attach, and
that a preferential payment could not be supported upon
any other theory applicable to the facts of this case.
A question much argued, both here and below, was
whether the case could be considered an exception to the
general rule that there can be no maritime lien for services furnished a vessel while in custodia legis. Cf. The
Young America, 30 Fed. 789; The Nisseqogue, 280 Fed.
174; Paxson v. Cunningham, 63 Fed. 132; The Willamette Valley, 66 Fed. 565. But, in the view we take, the
case does not turn upon possible exceptions to that rule,
as we think petitioner's right of recovery depends, as
the district court ruled, not upon the existence of a maritime lien, but upon principles of general application which
should govern whenever a court undertakes the administration of property or a fund brought into its custody for
the benefit of suitors.
The libellants in the consolidated cause were not only
concerned as owners in securing delivery of the cargo,
but as lienors they were interested in the ship and, as
eventually appeared, in the whole of her proceeds. Serv-

NEW YORK DOCK CO. v. S. S. POZNAN.
117

121

Opinion of the Court.

ice rendered to the ship after arrest, in aid of the discharge
of cargo, and afterward pending the sale, necessarily inured to their benefit, for it contributed to the creation of
the fund now available to them. The most elementary
notion of justice would seem to require that services or

property furnished upon the authority of the court or its
officer, acting within his authority, for the common benefit
of those interested in a fund administered by the court,

should be paid from the fund as an "expense of justice."
The Phebe, 1 Ware 354, 359, Fed. Cases 11065. This is
the familiar rule of courts of equity when administering
a trust fund or property in the hands of receivers. The
rule is extended, in making disposition of the earnings
of the property in the hands of the receiver, to require
payment of sums due for supplies furnished before the
receivership, where their use by the debtor or receiver in
the operation of the property has produced the earnings,
See Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235; Thomas v. Western
Car Co., 149 U. S.95, 110; Virginia & Alabama Coal Co.
v. Central R. R., 170 U. S.355; St. Louis, &c.R. R. v.
Cleveland, &c.. Ry., 125 U. S. 658, 663, 673; Southern Ry.
v. Carnegie Steel Co., 176 U. S. 257; PennsylvaniaSteel
Co. v. New York City Ry., 208 Fed. 168; Pennsylvania
Steel Co. v. New York City Ry., 216 Fed. 458, 470.
Such preferential payments are mere incidents to the
judicial administration of a fund. They are not to be explained in terms of equitable liens in the technical sense,
as is the case with agreements that particular property
shall be applied as security for the satisfaction of particular obligations or vendors' liens and the like, which are
enforced by plenary suits in equity. They result rather
from the self-imposed duty of the court, in the exercise
of its accustomed jurisdiction, to require that expenses
which have contributed either to the preservation or crea
tion of the fund in its custody shall be paid before a, general distribution among those entitled to receive it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

We need not inquire here into the exact limits of the
powers of courts of admiralty to administer equitable relief as distinguished from that peculiar to the courts of
admiralty. This is not a suit, as the court below seemed
to think, for the enforcement of an equitable lien. The
court of admiralty is asked, in the exercise of its admiralty
jurisdiction, to administer the fund within its custody in
accordance with equitable principles as is its wont. Cf.
United States v. Cornell Steamboat Co., 202 U. S. 184,
194; The Eclipse, 135 U. S. 599, 608; Benedict, Admiralty,
5th ed., ยง 70. It is defraying from the proceeds of the ship
in its registry an expense which it has permitted for the
common benefit and which, in equity and good conscience,
should be satisfied before the libellants may enjoy the
fruits of their liens.
Such a preferential payment from the proceeds of the
ship, for wharfage furnished to her while in custody, was
allowed by the court below in The St. Paul,271 Fed. 265.
But in the present case, that court thought that The
St. Paul case was to be distinguished on the ground that
there the wharfage service was furnished and the obligation incurred in accordance with an order made by the
court and with the consent of the libellants. But here
the court denied a motion to remove the ship from
petitioner's wharf with the consent of some of the libellants and with full knowledge of all concerned that the
wharfage was then being furnished. The libellants in the
consolidated cause, who are united in interest with respondent in the present case, thus appear to have acquiesced in this determination. We are unable to perceive
any basis for a distinction between action of the court
in authorizing the ship to proceed to the wharf to enable
it to discharge its cargo in the one case, and authorizing it
to remain there for a like purpose in the other. It is
enough if the court approves the service rendered or per-

