OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

328

Syllabus.

274 U. S.

adjoining the boulevard within the restricted district had
already been sold with restrictions against buildings for
business purposes, although the property of plaintiffs in
error and the adjacent property had not been so restricted. The effect of the evidence is to show that the
entire neighborhood, at the time of the passage of the
zoning ordinance, was largely unimproved, but in course
of rapid development. The Common Council of the city,
upon these and other facts, concluded that the public
welfare would be promoted by constituting the area, including the property of plaintiffs in error, a zone "B"
district; and it is impossible for us to say that their conclusion in that respecf was clearly arbitrary and unreasonable. The most that can be said is that whether
that determination was an unreasonable, arbitrary or
unequal exercise of power is fairly debatable. In such
circumstances, the settled rule of this court is that it will
not substitute its judgment for that of the legislative
body charged with the primary duty and responsibility
of determining the question. Euclid v. Ambler Co.,
supra, 388, 395; Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294;
Hadacheck v. Los Angeles, 239 U. S. 394, 408-412, 413414; Cusack Co. v. City of Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 530531; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, 240 U. S. 342, 357;
Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 452.
Judgment affirmed.

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROP

TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THM
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 135.

Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. The California statute defining and punishing criminal syndicalism
is not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. Whitney v. California, post, p. 357. P. 330.

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
328

329

Counsel for Parties.

2. An instruction to a jury must be considered in connection with
the evidence bearing on the matter to which it refers and with the
charge as a whole. P. 331.
3. To advocate among workers such acts as maliciously stowing the
cargo of a ship so that it will shift and cause her to list and return
to port, is to teach and abet "sabotage," which is defined by the
California statute as meaning "wilful and malicious damage or
injury to physical property "; it is also to teach and abet " crime"
and "unlawful methods of terrorism." P. 332.
4. In a prosecution under the California Act Against Criminal Syndicalism, it is not necessary to show that the elements of criminal
syndicalism were advocated or taught with the precision of statement required in indictments for criminal acts involved. The purpose and probable effect of the printed matter circulated and of
the things said in furtherance of the declared purposes of the organization are to be considered, having regard to the capacity and
circumstances of the persons sought to be influenced. P. 335.
5. Exceptions to a charge must be specifically made in order to give
the court opportunity then and there to correct errors and omissions, if any; and where a series of instructions are excepted to
in mass, the exception will be overruled if any one of them is
correct. P. 336.
6. An instruction in a criminal 6ase authorizing the jury to consider
certain facts, must be sustained when the record does not purport
to contain all the evidence relating to the things referred to, and
where it can not be said as a matter of law that they would be
improper for consideration if taken in connection with other facts.
P. 336.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sentencig
Burns upon his conviction of the crime of criminal syndicalism, under the California law as extended to Yosemite
National Park.

Mr. R. W. Henderson,with whom Mr. Walter H. Pollak
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney
in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the
United States.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

MR. JUsTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
An Act of Congress of June 2, 1920, ยง 1, c. 218, 41 Stat.
731, provides that, if any offense shall be committed in
the Yosemite National Park which is not prohibited by a
law of the United States, the offender shall be subject to
the saiAe punishment as thei laws of California prescribe
for a like offense. Plaintiff in error was indicted for violating within that Park the California Criminal Syndicalism Act, c. 188, California Statutes 1919. The indictment was in two counts. The verdict was guilty on the
first count and not guilty on the second. Plaintiff in
error, by demurrer and by motion to arrest the judgment,
insisted that the statute contravenes the Constitution of
the United States. His contention was overruled. The
case is here under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code, before the
Amendment of February 13, 1925.
The applicable provisions follow: "Section 1. The
term 'criminal syndicalism' as used in this act is hereby
defined as any doctrine or precept advocating, teaching
or aiding and abetting the commission of crime, sabotage
(which word is hereby defined as meaning wilful and
malicious physical damage or injury to physical property), or unlawful acts of force and violence or unlawful
methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing a
change in industrial ownership or control, or effecting
any political change. Section 2. Any person who:
organizes or assists in organizing, or is or knowingly becomes a member of, any organization, society,
group or assemblage of persons organized or assembled to
advocate, teach or aid and abet criminal syndicalism
"
is guilty of a felony
..
Plaintiff in error here contends that, as applied in the
district court, these provisions are repugnant to the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The only attack upon the validity of the
law was by the demurrer and motion in arrest. In each

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
328

Opinion of the Court.

of these, he asserted that the statute "is in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States and is void for uncertainty." But that
point is determined adversely to his contentions in Whitney v. California, post, p. 357.
The substance of the count on which plaintiff in error
was adjudged guilty is that on or about April 10, 1923,
at Yosemite National Park, he did "organize, and assist
in organizing, and was, is, and knowingly became, a member of an organization, society, group and assemblage of
persons organized and assembled to advocate, teach, aid
and abet criminal syndicalism, to wit, The Industrial
Workers of the World, commonly known as I. W. W."
1. Plaintiff in error argues that he is entitled to a new
trial because the charge contains the following: "Now,
there has been presented to you evidence . . . to the
effect that this organization, amongst other things, advocated what is known as slowing down on the job, slack or
scamped work, such as loading of a ship in such a way
that it took a list to port or starboard and therefore had
to limp back to port, and things of that kind. I instruct
you that under the definition as laid down by the legislature of California, that any deliberate attempt to reduce
the profits in the manner that I have described would
constitute sabotage." He calls attention to the language
in section 1 and says that merely loading telephone poles
on a ship so as to occasion more work is not physical damage or injury to physical property within the meaning of
the statute.
If that instruction stood alone it might be thought to
permit the jury erroneously to expand the meaning of
sabotage beyond that defined in the Act. But it does not
stand alone; and the mere comparison of the quoted language of the instruction with the words of the statute is
not sufficient to disclose whether there was prejudicial
error. The instruction must be taken in connection with

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

the evidence bearing on the matter referred to and is to
be considered in the light of the charge as a whole. New
York Cent. R. R. v. United States, 212 U. S. 500, 508;
Hotema v. United States, 186 U. S. 413,416; Spring Drug
Co. v. United States, 12 F. (2d) 852, 856; People v. Scott,
6 Mich. 287, 291. There is no contention that plaintiff in
error was not connected with the organization substantially as alleged, or that the evidence failed to show it to
be the kind of organization specified in the indictment.
The record shows that for a number of years he had been
a member of the organization; that, at the time alleged
and when arrested, he was its authorized delegate and had
a quantity of its literature in his possession; that he solicited others to become members and was authorized to
initiate new members and to collect initiation fees and
dues. It also shows that the organization disseminated
large amounts of printed matter declaring its purposes
and advocating means to accomplish them. A "preamble" was contained in practically all its publications
and was printed on the membership card of plaintiff in
error. It declares that the working class and employing
class have nothing in common; that a struggle must go on
between them until the workers organize, take possession
of the earth and the machinery of production and abolish
the wage system; that the trade unions aid the employing
class to mislead the workers into the belief that they have
interests in common with their employers; that, "instead
of the conservative motto, 'A fair day's wages for a fair
day's work,' we must inscribe on our banner the revolutionary watchword, 'Abolition of the wage system; '" that
it is the mission of the working class to do away with
capitalism; that the army of production must be organized to carry on when capitalism shall have been overthrown; that "by organizing industrially we are forming
the structure of the new society within the shell of the
old."

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
328

333

Opinion of the Court.

Sabotage, as the evidence indicates it to have been
advocated and taught by the organization, is not confined,
as is the definition contained in the Act, to physical
damage and injury to physical property. The organization's printed matter that was received in evidence contains no precise definition of sabotage, but does give a
number of descriptive explanations of what it means.
As fairly illustrative, we take the following: "Three versions are given of the source of the word. The one best
known is that a striking French weaver cast his wooden
shoe-called a sabot-into the delicate mechanism of the
loom upon leaving the mill. The confusion that resulted,
acting to the workers' benefit, brought to the front a line
of tactics that took the name of sabotage. Slow work
is also said to be at the basis of the word, the idea being
that wooden shoes are clumsy and so prevent quick action on the part of the workers. The third idea is that
sabotage is coined from the slang term that means 'putting the boots' to the employers by striking directly at
their profits without leaving the job. The derivation,
however, is unimportant. It is the thing itself that causes
commotion among employers and politicians alike." The
evidence shows that the organization advocated, taught
and aided various acts of "sabotage" that are plainly
within the meaning of that word as defined by the Act.
Some examples are: injuring machinery when employed
to use it, putting emery dust in lubricating oil, damaging
materials when using them in manufacture or otherwise,
scattering foul seed in fields, driving tacks and nails in
grape vines and fruit trees to kill them, using acid to
destroy guy wires holding up the poles provided to support growing vines, putting pieces of wire and the like
among vines to destroy machines used to gather crops,
scattering matches and using chemicals to start fires to
destroy property of employers. One of the witnesses testified: "I heard . . . a member of the I. W. W. say in

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

a speech on May 10th, 1923: 'When you go back to work,
if we do have to go to work, we will put on the wooden
shoe.' Then he said: 'In case you are loading telephone
poles on a ship down there, sometime the boss is not looking you can slip a couple of poles crossways and then
cover up, and then when that ship goes to sea naturally
she will start rolling and the cargo will shift, and then
she will come in listed like the one you see out in the
harbor, then she has got to tie up to the dock, and she
will have to unload the telephone poles and put them in
again and put them straight, and then we will get paid
for the loading originally, and get paid for unloading i
and get pay for loading it again, and that will hit the
bosses hard in the pocketbook.'"
The foregoing sufficiently shows the foundation of fact
for the portion of the charge complained of. Before giving that instruction, the court warned the jury that the
Government must establish beyond reasonable doubt that
the I. W. W. was such an organization as is denounced
by the Act. The definition of criminal syndicalism was
given the jury in the exact words of the statute. The
court then gave a number of lexicographers' definitions
of sabotage. They are broader than the meaning of the
word as defined in the Act and are not confined to physical damage or injury to physical property. Then, by
way of contrast, the statutory definition of sabotage was
repeated, and by the repetition it was emphasized. The
court said: "The statute, itself, you will notice, however,
denounces sabotage as meaning wilful and malicious
physical damage or injury to physical property." The
instruction complained of followed. It referred to the
evidence indicating that the organization advocated acts
such as loading a ship so that it would lst and have to
return, and things of that kind. And in that connection
the court said that any deliberate attempt to reduce
profits "in the manner that I have described" would

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
328

Opinion of the Court.

constitute sabotage. The language excepted to was followed by an instruction containing this: "If you find,
therefore, that this organization advocated sabotage or
any other criminal matters mentioned in the section that
I have read, either for the purpose of bringing about a
change in industrial control, or a political change, then
it would constitute criminal syndicalism."
While one of the purposes of such improper loading of
ships may be to create more work for the men and so to
inflict loss on employers, it is also plainly calculated to
endanger the vessels, their cargoes and the lives of those
aboard. By the instruction complained of, the consideration of the jury was limited to "things of that kind."
The advocating of the malicious commission of such acts
is to teach and abet sabotage-physical damage and injury to physical property; it also is to teach and abet
crime and unlawful methods of terrorism. It was not
necessary for the prosecution to show that the elements
of criminal syndicalism were advocated or taught with
the precision of statement required in indictments for
criminal acts involved. Cf. Wong Tai v. United States,
273 U. S. 77. The purpose and probable effect of the
printed matter circulated and of the things said in furtherance of the declared purposes of the organization are
to be considered having regard to the capacity and circumstances of the persons sought to be influenced. When
there is taken into account the evidence referred to and
the parts of the charge preceding and following the part
of the charge here assailed-and especially the giving
and reiteration of the statutory language defining sabotage-it is quite apparent that the instruction was not
erroneous.
Both sides have dealt with the case here as if the question were properly raised, and we have considered its
merits. McAitt v. Turner, 16 Wall. 352, 362; Baltimore
& Potomac Railroad v. Mackey, 157 U. S.72, 86; Nor-

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

folk & Western Ry. v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114. Cf. West
v. Rutledge Timber Co., 244 U. S.90, 99-100. But, after
examining the record, we think plaintiff in error failed
to make any objection or effectively to take exception to
the charge complained of. The exception there indicated
did not call the court's attention to the instruction now
attacked. It was general in form and applied to the
series of statements that followed it, covering about two
pages of the record. Plaintiff in error does not contend
that all of them are erroneous, and obviously they are
not. The rule is well-established that, where a series of
instructions are excepted to in mass, the exception will
be overruled if any one of them is correct. Johnston v.
Jones, 1 Black 209, 220; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46,
54; McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 610. Exceptions to a charge must be specifically made in order to
give the court opportunity then and there to correct
errors and omissions, if any. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Minds, 250 U. S. 368, 375, and cases cited; Allis v. United
States, 155 U. S. 117, 122. Even if some of the instructions were erroneous, the exceptions taken were not such
as to require a new trial.
2. Plaintiff in error complains of another part of the
charge: "There has been evidence here that advertisements were published in the official organs of the Industrial Workers of the World, what they call also stickerettes, calling upon people to boycott the entire State of
California and its products. That would only be legal
in the event that it was in furtherance of a strike, and
by 'legal' I mean as established by the State of California, that is to say, if it was in furtherance of a strike,
if it was in good faith, an attempt to better their conditions, and if it did not indulge in maliciousness or misrepresentation. If, however, you should find from the
evidence that that was not so, then it would be an illegal

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
328

BRANDEIs,

837

J., dissenting.

boycott and you could take it into consideration in determining the facts of this case."
The record does not contain all the evidence and fails
to show that it includes all relating to the matter referred to in this instruction. We think it cannot be said
as a matter of law that the things there mentioned, when
taken in connection with other facts, may not have been
proper for consideration in connection with some element
of the criminal syndicalism charged. Moreover, no objection was made or exception properly taken to that
part of the charge. Here again the exception failed
specifically to point out the instruction now assailed as
erroneous.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTicE BRADEis, dissenting.
This writ of error was allowed under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code, on constitutional grounds, prior to the amendment of February 13, 1925. All alleged errors at the trial
which were properly excepted to are therefore, before us.
Chaloner v. Sherman, 242 U. S. 455, 457. There was, at
least, one error committed which, in my opinion, justifies
reversal and which does not involve a constitutional question. For that reason, according to the practice approved
by the Court, I refrain from discussing the constitutional
questions presented. See Steamship Co. v. Emigration
Comm'rs, 113 U. S. 33, 39; Chicago & G. T. Ry. Co. v.
Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345; Howat v. Kansas, 258 U. S.
181, 184.
The defendant was convicted on the count which
charges him with becoming a member of an organization
formed to advocate criminal syndicalism. The California statute defines criminal syndicalism as advocating
sabotage, among other things; and it defines sabotage "as
55514-28-----22

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

274 U. S.

meaning wilful and malicious physical damage or injury
to physical property." To prove the crime, the Government undertook to show that the defendant was a member of the I. W. W. and that the I. W. W. advocated,
among other things, the use of sabotage. On that subject
the trial judge gave the following instruction, which was
duly excepted to:
"Sabotage has been variously defined. Webster's New
International Dictionary defines it as 'Scamped work;
malicious waste or destruction of an employer's property
by workmen during labor troubles.' Funk & Wagnalls'
New Standard Dictionary defines it as: 'Any poor work
or other damage done by dissatisfied workmen; also, the
act of producing it; plant wrecking.' Nelson's Encyclopedia defines it thus: 'The organized hampering of production by slack work, skilful disabling of machinery or
the publication of trade secrets.' The New International
Encyclopedia defines it thus: 'Sabotage may consist in
throwing the progress of production out of order, through
tampering with machinery, improper use of material, or
loitering at work.' The Encyclopedia Americana defines
it as: 'A method used by labor revolutionists to force
employers to accede to demands made on them. It consists in wilful obstruction and interference with the normal processes of industry. It aims at inconveniencing
and tying up of production, but stops short of actual destruction or of endangering human life directly.'
"The statute, itself, you will notice, however, denounces sabotage as meaning wilful and malicious physical damage or injury to physical property.
"Now, there has been presented to you evidence, of
the truth or falsity of which, however, you are the exclusive judges, to the effect that this organization, amongst
other things, advocated what is known as slowing down
on the job, slack or scamped work, such as'loading of a
ship in such a way that it took a list to port or starboard

BURNS v. UNITED STATES.
328

BRANDEIS, J.,

339

dissenting.

and therefore had to limp back to port, and things of that
kind. I instruct you that under the definition as laid
down by the legislature of California, that any deliberate
attempt to reduce the profits in the manner that I have
described would constitute sabotage."
The testimony referred to by the court in the above
instruction was this:
"Under similar circumstances I heard Leo Stark, a
member of the I. W. W., say in a speech on May 10th,
1923: 'When you go back to work, if we do have to go
to work, we will put on the wooden shoe.' Then he said:
'In case you are loading telephone poles on a ship down
there, sometime the boss is not looking you can slip a
couple of poles crossways and then cover up, and then
when that ship goes to sea naturally she will start rolling
and the cargo will shift, and then she will come in listed
like the one you see out in the harbor, then she has got
to tie up to the dock, and she will have to unload the telephone poles and put them in again and put them straight,
and then we will get paid for the loading originally, and
get paid for unloading it and get pay for loading it again,
and that will hit the bosses hard in the pocketbook.
"Mr. LEwIs. I move that that answer be stricken out
as immaterial, irrelevant and incompetent, not within the
definition of sabotage as laid down in the statute, or the
Criminal Syndicalism law.
"The CouRT. I cannot see it. As I said before, I cannot see but what any deliberate act, the purpose of which
is to reduce the profits of the physical thing, is not equally
an injury. Motion denied.
"Mr. LEwis. I note an exception."
The exception to the charge is insisted on, although
the objection to the admission of the evidence is not
urged here. The charge was clearly erroneous. It plainly
directed the jury that "slowing down on the job" and
"scamped work" constituted sabotage within the mean-

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

.274UT. S.

ing of the statute. Since the jury must have taken it to
be an exposition or interpretation of the words of the
statute, the error was not cured by definition, elsewhere
in the charge, of sabotage in the terms of the statute.
The court ruled throughout the course of the trial, that
evidence to show a program of scamped work was admissible. Much of the Government's evidence consisted
of documents showing such a program on the part of the
I. W. W. The charge inevitably led the jury to think
that all such evidence showed the guilty character of the
organization.
It is said that the charge, if erroneous, was not prejudicial, because the illegal character of the organization
was established by other evidence than that which formed
the basis of the charge, and because even the latter evidence showed the advocacy of acts which amounted to a
malicious destruction of property, and so might properly
support a conviction even under a proper construction of
the statute. Even in civil cases erroneous rulings, especially those embodied in instructions, are presumptively
prejudicial. Filippon v. Albion Slate Co., 250 U. S. 76,
82; United States v. River Rouge Co., 269 U. S. 411, 421.
The illegal character of the organization was not conceded. There was evidence from which the illegal character might have been deduced. But the evidence related, in the main, to the acts of individuals. The effort
of the defense was to disavow those acts.
It is also said that the exception to the charge was not
properly taken. The defendant excepted specifically to
that portion of the charge which dealt with sabotage.
The precise ground of the exception was not set forth.
But the continued objections to the admission of evidence upon the ground here urged, and the court's adverse rulings thereon, could have left no doubt in the
mind of the court as to what was meant by the exception here in question. Moreover, the case comes to this

