OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for the United States.

274 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SISAL SALES CORPORATION
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 200.

Argued March 9, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.

1. A combination, entered into by parties within the United States
and made effective by acts done therein, to monopolize the supply
abroad, and the domestic stock, of an article of commerce produced
only in a foreign country, monopolize and control its importation
and sales, destroy competition, and arbitrarily advance and fix
prices and make other unreasonable exactions of purchasers, is in
violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and of § 73 of the Wilson
Tariff Act, as amended February 12, 1913. P. 274.
2. The fact that their control of the production was aided by discriminatory legislation of the foreign country does not prevent
punishment of the forbidden results of the conspiracy, within the
United States. American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213
U. S. 347, distinguished. P. 275.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
on motion equivalent to a demurrer, a bill by the United
States to'enjoin an alleged combination and conspiracy.
to monopolize the importation and sale in the United
States of sisal-a fiber which is used for the manufacture
of binder twine and which is produced in Yucatan almost
exclusively.

Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. Rush H. Williamson, Miller Hughes, and William D. Whitney, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief,
for the United States.
The entry into a conspiracy with unlawful intent to
restrain foreign trade and commerce is an offense under

U. S. v. SISAL SALES CORP.
268

269

Argument for the United States.

the Sherman Anti-Trust Law and the anti-trust provisions of the Wilson Tariff Law. The unlawful character
of such a conspiracy is not dependent upon the unlawfulness of any one or more of the particular acts relied
upon by the defendants to make such conspiracy effective. The offense is complete when the conspiracy is
entered into. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373. The
American Banana Case, 213 U. S. 359, was an action for
damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act, and the injury
relied upon was committed at the instigation of the defendant by the Government of Costa Rica. The right
to damages must depend upon the unlawful character of
the injury. When a conspiracy is one to restrain foreign
commerce and to monopolize the importation of a particular product, it is unlawful irrespective of the means employed to carry it out, and is subject to be enjoined under
§ 4 of the Sherman Act and § 74 of the Wilson Tariff Act.
In the case at bar, moreover, the Government has not
merely charged the entry into a conspiracy with unlawful
purpose and aim, but also the actual attainment of the
ends of that conspiracy by various overt acts. The Banana Case, supra, is not authority upon the present case.
The cases which followed it establish the rule that even
acts done abroad which are lawful there may be the basis
of a suit if they are operative here and are unlawful under
our law. United States v. Nord Deutscher Lloyd, 223
U. S. 512; United States v. Pacific& Arctic Co., 228 U. S.
87; United States v. Twenty Five Packages of Panama
Hats, 231 U. S. 358; United States v. Bowman, 260 U. S.
94; UnitedStates v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106.
The anti-trust provisions of the Wilson Tariff Act are
particularly directed against restraints upon foreign commerce by importers.
Repeal by the State of Yucatan of the discriminatory
legislation would not render the case moot.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellees.

274 U. S.

Mr. Winthrop W. Aldrich for appellee Sisal Sales Corporation.
It is clear from the allegations of the petition that the
alleged monopoly depended entirely upon the discriminatory tax laws of the State of Yucatan in favor of Comisi6n
Exportadora. The "unlawful agreement" alleged to
have been made by a number of the defendants, in pursuance of which it is claimed the monopoly resulted, contemplated that Castellanos should proceed to Yucatan,
Mexico, and "cause to be enacted in the Republic of
Mexico or the States of Yucatan and Campeche any laws
or regulations necessary to create a monopoly of the sisal
produced in said States and such laws and regulations as
might be necessary for a reduction of acreage and control
of prices." Prior to the enactment of the discriminatory
tax "laws competition existed, and immediately upon the
enactment thereof competition ceased.
It is manifest that the creation of a monopoly by the
laws of a foreign State would not constitute a violation of
our anti-trust statutes. American Banana Co. v. United
Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347.
It would be utterly futile to grant the injunction
prayed for in the petition, for, if granted, it would not
affect the discriminatory tax laws of the State of Yucatan
by virtue of which the monopoly is alleged to have been
created and become effective; nor would it prevent the
Comisi6n Exportadora from continuing to sell sisal in the
United States through agencies other than the defendants
and with other financial support.
Mr. Harold R. Medina for appellee Hanson & Orth
et al.
The petition alleges a monopoly existing as the direct
result of a series of enactments, proclamations and decrees of sovereign foreign governments without which
nothing remains of the alleged conspiracy in this case.

U. S. v. SISAL SALES CORP.
268

Opinion of the Court.

(1) A conspiracy to effect monopoly by means of enactments, proclamationi and decrees of a sovereign foreign
government is not within the scope of the Anti-Trust laws
of the United States, and the decision in the American
Banana Case, 213 U. S. 347, is conclusive on that point.
(2) Moreover, the question raised by the existence of the
foreign government monopoly in this case is a broad international, economic and political one, and in so far as the
United States conceives itself to be injured by such monopoly, the remedy should not be attempted by the courts
but by the executive and legislative departments of the
United States.
Mr. JusTicE McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States seek an injunction to prevent appellees from taking further action in pursuance of a contract, combination or conspiracy said to be forbidden by
the Sherman Anti-trust Act and the Wilson Tariff Act as
amended, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209; c. 349, 28 Stat. 509, 570;
c. 40, 37 Stat. 667. The trial court regarded American
Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347, as controlling; held that no cause of action had been alleged; and
dismissed the bill upon motion.
The bill is confused, difficult to follow, and an excellent
example of bad pleading. An order should direct that it
be recast and conformed to the established rules. Courts
ought not to be burdened by rambling and obscure statements. Nevertheless, we think enough is alleged to indicate a meritorious cause and to require reversal of the
judgment below.
Appellees are three banking corporations doing business at New York and New Orleans; two Delaware corporations-The Eric and the Sisal Sales-organized to
deal in sisal; a Mexican corporation-Comisi6n Exportadora de Yucatan-which buys sisal from the producers;

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

cerjain officers and agents of the foregoing corporations;
and members of Hanson and Orth, brokers.
Sisal is the fiber of the henequen plant, a native of
Mexico, and from it is fabricated more than eighty per
centum of the binder twine used for harvesting our grain
crops. The annual requirements of the United States
are from two hundred and fifty to three hundred million
pounds. During one year a million bales-375 pounds
each-were imported. Adequate quantities can be obtained only from Yucatan. The plant is extensively cultivated there and the supply has often exceeded market
demands. Prices paid to producers have varied from less
than four to seven or eight cents per pound.
Prior to 1919 appellee banks advanced large sums to
parties endeavoring to monopolize importation and sale
of sisal in the United States. The Mexican corporation,
Comisi6n Reguladora del Mercado de Henequen, was
utilized as an important instrumentality for making
necessary purchases, and legislation favorable to it was
secured. For a time the scheme succeeded; then came
collapse. Through foreclosure of liens held to secure
their loans (several million dollars) appellee banks acquired four hundred thousand bales of fiber stored in this
country. About that time, through change of laws, the
Yucatan markets were again opened; competition became
active and prices declined.
Thereupon, appellee banks, acting jointly and within
the United States, entered into and undertook to make
effective another and somewhat different combination or
scheme to control the sisal market, with the ultimate purpose of selling their holdings, recouping losses and securing large gains. Later, the other defendants became
parties thereto.
As the direct outcome of this unlawful combination,
conspiracy and accompanying contracts, it is alleged-

U. S. v. SISAL SALES CORP.
268

Opinion of the Court.

Appellees have secured a monopoly of interstate and
foreign commerce in sisal. The Comisi6n Exportadora de
Yucatan has become sole purchaser of sisal from producers and the Sisal Sales Corporation, sole importer into
the United States. There is no longer any competition
in the trade; excessive prices are arbitrarily fixed. The
sisal acquired by the banks during 1919 has been sold;
undue profits and commissions have been and are demanded; the conspirators have realized great sums at the
expense of our manufacturers and farmers.
All steps necessary to bring about the above-stated results have been deliberately taken by appellees. Some
of them are stated below.
The Eric Corporation, organized in August, 1919, and
owned and financed by the banks, took over the large
stocks of sisal acquired by them through foreclosure, also
two hundred and fifty thousand bales accumulated in
Yucatan. Laws favorable to it were solicited and secured
from the governments of Mexico and Yucatan. Under
them, and by the use of large sums supplied by the banks,
that corporation and its agents soon became everywhere
the dominant factors in the sisal trade. Prior to January, 1921, the Mexican corporation, Comisi6n Reguladora
del Mercado de Henequen, was the agency for buying
and selling sisal in that country; but about that time its
business collapsed. Thereupon, the Comisi6n Monetaria
was organized under the same laws, furnished with large
sums of money and utilized for such purposes. The
governments of both Mexico and Yucatan were persuaded
to pass discriminatory legislation, and all other buyers
were forced out of the markets. But because of the great
supply of fiber this plan also proved unsuccessful and The
Eric Corporation was obliged to increase its large holdings.
Later, by procurement of the banks, the Sisal Sales
Company was organized to deal in sisal, and Hanson and
55514°-28--i--s

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

2741U. S.

Orth became its managers. It took title to the sisal
held by The Eric Corporation. The old Comisi6n Reguladora del Mercado de IHenequen was revived as the
Comisi6n Exportadora de Yucatan and again became the
active agent for buying and selling in Mexico. Laws
were solicited and passed which gave it advantages over
all others. Under these, and by the use of funds supplied by the banks, it soon became the sole buyer of sisal
from the producers. It also acquired the fiber held by
the Sisal Sales Corporation on storage in the United
States. Thereupon, the Sisal Sales Corporation, through
contracts, became the exclusive selling agent of the Comisi6n Exportadora de Yucatan in all markets of the
world, and agreed to furnish the funds necessary for their
joint operations. Appellees thus, and by constant
manipulation of the markets, acquired complete dominion
over them, destroyed all competition, obtained power to
advance and arbitrarily to fix excessive prices, and have
made unreasonable exactions.
Accepting as true the allegations of the bill-roughly
summarized above-it is plain enough that appellees are
parties to a successful plan to destroy competition and
to control and monopolize the purchase, importation and
sale of sisal. The Sherman Act inhibits contracts, combinations and conspiracies to destroy competition in
interstate and foreign trade and commerce, as well as
attempts to monopolize such trade. Sections 73 and 74
of the Wilson Tariff Act, as amended,* declare unlawful
* Wilson Tariff Act, Aug. 27, 1894, as amended by Act of Feb. 12,
1913.
SEC. 73. That every combination, conspiracy, trust, agreement, or
contract is hereby declared to be contrary to public policy, illegal,
and void when the same is made by or between two or more persons
or corporations either of whom, as agent or, principal, is engaged in
importing any article from any foreign country into the United
States, and when such combination, conspiracy, trust, agreement, or

U. S. v. SISAL SALES CORP.
268

275

Opinion of the Court.

every combination, conspiracy, trust, agreement or contract intended to operate in restraint of trade in, or free
competition in respect of, or intended to increase the
market price of any article when one of the parties is
engaged in importing the same, and give the courts power
to prevent and restrain those who violate the Act.
The circumstances of the present controversy are radically different from those presented in American Banana
Co. v. United Fruit Co., supra, and the doctrine there
approved is not controlling here. The Banana Company
sued for treble damages under the Sherman Act, basing
contract is intended to operate in restraint of lawful trade, or free
competition in lawful trade or commerce, or to increase the market
price in any part of the United States of any article or articles
imported or intended to be imported into the United States, or of any
manufacture into which such imported article enters or is intended to
enter. Every person who is or shall hereafter be engaged in the
importation of goods or any commodity from any foreign country in
violation of this section of this Act, or who shall combine or conspire with another to violate the same, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof in any court of the United States such
person shall be fined in a sum not less than one hundred dollars and
not exceeding five thousand dollars, and shall be further punished
by imprisonment, in the discretion of the court, for a term not less
than three months nor exceeding twelve months.
SEc. 74. That the several circuit courts of the United States are
hereby invested with jurisdiction to prevent and -restrain violations
of section seventy-three of this Act; and it shall be the duty of the
several district attorneys of the United States, in their respective
districts, under the direction of the Attorney-General, to institute
proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such violations. Such
proceedings may be by way of petitions setting forth the case and
praying that such violations shall be enjoined or otherwise prohibited.
When the parties complained of shall have been duly notified of such
petition the court shall proceed, as soon as may be, to the hearing
and determination of the case; and pending such petition and before
final decree, the court may at any time make such temporary
restraining order or prohibition as shall be deemed just in the
premises.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

its claim upon acts done outside the United States and
not unlawful by the law of the place. "The substance
of the complaint is that, the plantation being within the
de ficto jurisdiction of Costa Rica, that state took and
keeps possession of it by virtue of its sovereign power.
But a seizure by a state is not a thing that can be complained of elsewhere in the courts." "A conspiracy in
this country to do acts in another jurisdiction does not
draw to itself those acts and make them unlawful, if they
are permitted by the local law."
Here we have a contract, combination and conspiracy
entered into by parties within the United States and made
effective by acts done therein. The fundamental object
was control of both importation and sale of sisal and complete monopply of both internal and external trade and
commerce therein. The United States complain of a violation of their laws within their own territory by parties
subject to their jurisdiction, not merely of something done
by another government at the instigation of private parties. True, the conspirators were aided by discriminating
legislation, but by their own deliberate acts, here and elsewhere, they brought about forbidden results within the
United States. They are within the jurisdiction of our
courts and may be punished for offenses against our
laws.
Moreover, appellees are engaged in importing articles
from a foreign country and have become parties to a contract, combination and conspiracy intended to restrain
trade in those articles and to increase the market price
within the United States. Such an arrangement is
plainly denounced by § 73 of the Wilson Tariff Act, as
amended.
The decree of the court below must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

decision of this cause.

took no part in the consideration or

