ZAHN v. BD. OF PUBLIC WORKS.
316

Syllabus.

have been sought and allowed, pleading the ground of
negligence afterwards set up in the second action.
Nevertheless, the cause of action was one and indivisible,
and the erroneous conclusion to the contrary cannot have
the effect of depriving the defendants in the second action
of their right to rely upon the plea of res judicata.
Plaintiff's claim for damages having been submitted and
passed upon, the effect of the judgment in the admiralty
case as a bar is the same whether resting upon an erroneous view of the law or not. A judgment merely voidable because based upon an erroneous view of the law is
not open to collateral attack, but can be corrected only
by a direct review and not by bringing another action
upon the same cause. Colburn v. Woodworth, 31 Barb.
(N. Y.) 381, 384; Wolverton v. Baker, 86 Cal. 591, 593;
Bettys v. C. M. & St. P. R. Co., 43 Iowa 602, 604; Bancroft v. Winspear, 44 Barb. (N. Y.) 209, 215-216; Winslow v. Stokes, 48 N. C. 285.
The conclusion that the judgment below must be reversed cannot be avoided without subverting long established principles of general application, which we are not
at liberty to set aside for a special case of hardship.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.

ZAHN ET AL. v. BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 196. Argued March 7, 1927.-Decided May 16, 1927.
1. A zoning ordinance dividing the City of Los Angeles into five building zones and prescribing the kinds of buildings that may be
erected in each zone, held constitutional in its general scope
(Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365), and not violative
of due process or equal protection as applied to this case. P. 327.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

2. The plaintiff's lot was in a zone limited by the ordinance to buildings for residences, churches, private clubs, educational purposes,
etc., and excluding buildings for private business other than physicians' offices. The value of the lot would be much enhanced if it
could be used for business purposes, for which it was favorably
situated. Other property in the zone was largely restricted by
covenant to residential uses. The entire neighborhood at the time
of the ordinance was largely unimproved but in course of rapid
development. The conclusion of the city council, on these and
other facts, that the public welfare would be promoted by establishing the zone can not be adjudged clearly arbitrary or unreasonable; and this court can not in such circumstances substitute its
judgment for theirs. P. 328.
195 Cal. 497, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of California,
on an original application for a writ of mandate commanding the Board of Public Works of the City of Los
Angeles to issue to the petitioners a permit for the construction of a business building, suitable for occupation
by stores, upon property of the petitioners in that city.
An alternative writ was issued, returnable in the District
Court of Appeal, which found in favor of the petitioners,
holding the city zoning ordinances unreasonable and discriminatory. This was reversed, and the ordinances upheld, by the subsequent judgment of the Supreme Court,
here under review.
Mr. A. J. Hill for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Lucius P. Green, with whom Mr. Jess E. Stephens
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a proceeding in mandamus brought in the state
court to compel defendants in error to issue a building
permit enabling plaintiffs in error to erect a business

ZAHN v. BD. OF PUBLIC WORKS.
325

327

Opinion of the Court.

building upon a lot lying within a district of the City of
Los Angeles restricted by the zoning ordinance of that
city against buildings of that character. The ordinance
creates five zones, designated as "A," "B," "C," "D,"
and " E," respectively, and classifies the kinds of buildings,
structures and improvements which may be erected ill
each. The ordinance is of the now familiar comprehensive type, but in the main regulates only the character
of buildings which lawfully may be erected and does not
prescribe height and area limitations. It is assailed as
being repugnant to the due process of law and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The property of plaintiffs in error is in zone "B," in which, generally stated, the use is limited to buildings for residential purposes, churches, private clubs, educational and
similar purposes. All buildings for private business are
excluded, with the exception of offices of persons practicing medicine. The state supreme court, in a well reasoned opinion, upheld the ordinance and denied the relief
sought. 195 Cal. 497. And see Miller v. Board of Public
Works, 195 Cal. 477.
The constitutional validity of the ordinance in its general scope is settled by the recent decision of this court
in Euclid v. Ambler Co., 272 U. S. 365; and upon the record here we find no warrant for saying that the ordinance
is unconstitutional as applied to the facts in the present
case. The property of plaintiffs in error adjoins Wilshire
Avenue, a main artery of travel through and beyond
the city; and if such property were available for business purposes its market value would be greatly enhanced. The lands within the district were, when the
ordinance was adopted, sparsely occupied by buildings,
those in which business was carried on being limited to
a few real estate offices, a grocery store, a market, a fruit
stand, and a two-story business block. Much of the land

