630

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

274 U. S.

foreign competitors, and was an unfair method of competition within the meaning of § 5. Compare Tuttle v.
Buck, 107 Minn. 145; Dunshee v. Standard Oil Co., 152
Ia. 618, 626-627; United States v. Corn Products Refining Co., 234 Fed. 964, 984, 1010; United States v. Central
West Publishing Co., Decrees and Judgments in Federal
Anti-Trust Cases, 359, 360, 362; Thomsen v. Cayser, 243
U. S. 66, 87; for cases which, although not exactly in
point, lend support to this view.
It would seem that that part of the order which still
stands, forbidding the agreement for the suppression of
competition, is futile if the Eastman Company may retain
the laboratories as a threat to compel the manufacturers
of prints to do that which they could not lawfully agree
to do. In my view, the decree below should be reversed
and the order of the Commission upheld.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS joins in this dissent.
PORTNEUF-MARSH VALLEY CANAL COMPANY v.

BROWN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 252. Argued March 18, 1927.-Decided May 31, 1927.
1. The Act of Congress known as the Carey Act, as amended, which
declares that liens are authorized to be created by a State on lands
granted it by the Act, and when created shall be valid on the
separate legal divisions reclaimed, for the actual cost and necessary
expenses of reclamation, etc., is an enabling act empowering the
State to provide for liens by appropriate legislation. P. 637.
2. The construction of state statutes providing for such liens, and
the status of liens created under them, are local questions which,
in the absence of controlling authority from the highest court of
the State, this court must decide for itself. P. 637.
3. The plan of a Carey Act project contained provisions, effective
simultaneously on allotment of land to any purchaser of water

PORTNEUF-MARSH CO. v. BROWN.
630

Counsel for Parties.

rights, whereby shares to be issued to him in an operating company, and representing such rights, should become subject to a
lien in favor of the company constructing the works and providing
the water supply, as security for deferred payments on the water
rights, and also to a lien, in favor of the operating company, for
maintenance and operation charges. The first lien was to attach
on allotment of his land; the second necessarily later when water
was furnished on it.
Held that the priority of the liens inter sese, in the absence of
any specific provision defining it, was to be resolved, not by
priority of time merely, but by examination of the entire plan for
establishing the irrigation system, in the light of applicable statutes.
P. 636.
4. Under § 3019, Comp. Stats. of Idaho, 1919, a company furnishing
water for a Carey Act project by constructing an irrigation system
and selling water rights, is entitled to a lien for deferred payments
on such rights, superior to liens of an operating company for
subsequent maintenance and operation charges. P. 638.
5 F. (2d) 895, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

(270 U. S. 637) to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, which reversed one by the District
Court, in a foreclosure proceeding, (299 Fed. 338),
adjudging that the above-named petitioner, a company
operating the irrigation system of a Carey Act project,
was entitled to a lien on certain of its shares, as security
for maintenance charges, prior to the lien set up by the
respondents, trustees for bondholders of the company
that constructed the system.
Mr. T. C. Coffin, with whom Messrs. D. C. McDougall,
I. E. McDougall, H. 0. McDougall, and J. H. Peterson
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Edwin Snow, with whom Messrs. John A. Marshall,
W. Rodman Peabody, and Howard W. Brown were on
the brief, for respondents.

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

MR. JusTicE STo-- delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question presented by this record is one of priority
of liens upon shares of stock representing water rights
in an irrigation project organized and created under the
Act of Congress known as the Carey Act, August 18, 1894,
c. 301, § 4, 28 Stat. 372, 422, as amended June 11, 1896,
c. 420, 29 Stat. 413, 434, and under concurrent legislation
of the State of Idaho, title 26, c. 136, § 2996, et seq. The
present suit was begun in the district court for Idaho by
respondents, citizens of Massachusetts, for the foreclosure
of a deed of trust, of which they are trustees. The defendants are two Idaho corporations, the Portneuf-Marsh
Valley Irrigation Company and the Portneuf-Marsh Valley Canal Company, the petitioner here, referred to respectively in this opinion as the construction company and
the operating company. The district court entered a decree for the defendants on the issues now presented, 299
Fed. 338, which was reversed by the court of appeals for
the ninth circuit. 5 Fed. (2d) 895. This Court granted
certiorari. 270 U. S. 637.
Proceeding under the applicable legislation, the construction company entered into a contract, on June 3,
1908, with the State of Idaho, for the construction of an
irrigation system to supply water to certain arid lands
within the State, set apart for that purpose by the federal
government under the provisions of the Carey Act. The
contract provided that the construction company should
sell water rights in the irrigation system to such settlers
as should receive from the state allotments of the designated lands, and fixed maximum rates and terms of sale.
A water right was defined as the right to receive sufficient
water from the system to irrigate one acre of land, and
represented a proportionate interest in the irrigation
works. The contract contemplated vesting the control
of the irrigation system in the settlers through the me-

PORTNEUF-MARSH CO. v. BROWN.
630

Opinion of the Court.

dium of an operating company, to be organized by the
construction company as soon as the lands were thrown
open to settlement. It provided that tle operating company should issue one share of stock for each water right
sold to settlers, and that the remainder should be issued
to the construction company pending further sale of water
rights, and that the irrigation system when completed
should be transferred to the operating company in return
for its capital stock so issued. The contract stipulated
also that the interest of the construction company in
the irrigation system and the lands within the project
might be mortgaged in accordance with the Carey Act
and the statutes of Idaho, and these laws were specifically
made a part of the contract.
Pursuant to the statutes and the contract with the
state, the construction company sold water rights to settlers, undertaking to deliver to them a like number of
shares of stock in the operating company. The purchasers agreed that their interest in the lands to be acquired from the state, to which the water rights were to
be appurtenant, and the shares of stock, should be security for the deferred installment payments; and default
in payment of any installment was to accelerate the
maturity of the purchase price. Appropriate mortgages
and assigments, to be first liens upon the land, were to
be givm for that purpose. The agreement also provided
that the operating company should have power to levy all
necessary tolls, charges, and assessments, which the purchasers of the water rights, represented by the stock,
agreed to pay, and that the contracts for the sale of water
rights might be assigned by the construction company.
To finance the project, the construction company authorized a bond issue secured by the present mortgage
of the irrigation system then being constructed. The
deed provided that until default the construction company might sell water rights to entrymen, and required

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

that, before bonds were issued, the construction company
deposit with the trustees as further security the contracts
for the sale of water rights, as described, and other security obtained from the purchasers.
In compliance with the statutes and contracts, steps
necessary to launch the system were taken. Water rights
were sold, the designated lands were allotted to entrymen, their contracts of purchase were pledged by the
construction company under its mortgage, and the irrigation system was conveyed to the operating company,
subject to the mortgage.
The project did not flourish. Some of the settlers having failed to make payment of installments due on the
contracts of purchase, respondents acquired their land,
water rights, and stock, in some cases by foreclosure and
in others by quit-claim deeds. The construction company defaulted in payment of interest on its bonds. The
present suit was brought by respondents to foreclose the
mortgage on the irrigation system and to foreclose any
claims that the two companies might make to the land,
water rights, and stock acquired by respondents in the
enforcement of their rights against the entrymen under
the contracts of purchase. The construction company,
being insolvent, made no defense, and the case was disposed of below on the theory that the trustees, as against
the operating company, so far as the water rights and
stock were concerned, stood in the position of the construction company. The operating company, as a defense, set up by answer its ownership of some of the stock
in controversy, acquired under a lien alleged to be superior
to that of respondents. This contention was based upon
the following facts.
The certificate of incorporation of the operating company authorizes it to levy and collect tolls, charges, and
assessments to defray the expense of maintenance and
operation of the irrigation system, and its by-laws, con-

PORTNEUF-MARSH CO. v. BROWN.
630

Opinion of the Court.

cededly in accordance with the contracts and applicable
statutes, require the certificates of stock to describe the
lands to which the shares and water rights relate, and declare that they shall be appurtenant to such lands, unless
forfeited for nonpayment of assessments. In the event
of default in payment of assessments by stockholders, the
operating company under local statutes may sell the stock
at public auction. In the case of the stock in question
the assessments had not been paid by the entrymen. The
stock was sold at public auction, the operating company
becoming the purchaser.
By stipulation the decree of foreclosure was limited to
the stock in the operating company, acquired by it in the
manner already described, and as to that stock the decree gave priority to the maintenance liens.
It will be observed that out of the complicated transactions by which the irrigation system was created and
made appurtenant to lands set apart by the government
for that purpose, two distinct classes of liens were created
with respect to the stock and water rights, in addition to
the general mortgage lien on the irrigation system as a
whole. There were (a) the liens for maintenance and
operating charges in favor of the operating company,
created under its charter and by-laws by the acquisition
and acceptance of its stock by the several purchasers and
their failure to pay assessments; (b) the purchase money
liens in favor of the construction company on the stock
and water rights and on the entrymen's land, created by
the sales contracts which had been pledged to respondents.
The charter and by-laws of the operating company
provided that the construction company should not be
liable for assessments for the expense of maintenance and
operation while it held the stock before sale. As no
charges could be levied upon the purchasers of the water
rights to whom the construction company delivered the

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

equivalent shares of stock until they received allotments
of land, and as the acquisition of the water rights and
stock in the operating company by purchasers was conditioned upon their receiving allotments of land, it is
apparent that the provisions for maintenance liens in
favor of the operating company and the lien stipulations
in the sales contracts became effective simultaneously on
the allotment of lands to purchasers of water rights. But
as the liens for maintenance came into existence only
with the furnishing of water to allottees after they-had
acquired their land, those liens were subsequent in point
of time to the purchase money liens which attached as
soon as the lands were acquired.
Usually liens which are prior in time are prior in
equity, but where as here each is stipulated for in contemplation of the creation of the other, the question of
priority must be resolved by ascertaining the true meaning and effect of the stipulations themselves. And as
the documents here contain no specific provision giving
preference to the one class of liens or the other, the question of priority now presented must be resolved by an examination of the entire plan for establishing the irrigation system, in the light of the applicable statutes.
Legislation permitting, a scheme for the creation of
such a system might undoubtedly provide that liens for
maintenance should take precedence over a general mortgage given to finance its construction. Such is the recognized order of priority in admiralty and to a more limited
extent in receiverships in equity and in foreclosure
proceedings. The trial court stated persuasively the
contentions made here that hardship to individuals and
danger to the unity and continuity of the system in
event of foreclosure, if maintenance charges are not thus
given the preference, are considerations which might well
turn the scales in favor of that class of liens if the stat-

PORTNEUF-iIARSH CO. v. BROWN.
630

Opinion of the Court.

utes, or the controlling documents in the absence of
statutory provision, were silent or ambiguous.
But we think the *statuteshere are neither silent nor

ambiguous. Reading together the documents embodying
the plan of organization, which specifically incorporated
the provisions of the statutes, the question may be resolved without exclusive reliance upon implications to
be found in the general nature and purpose of the plan
itself.
The Carey Act as amended declares, "a lien or liens
is heieby authorized to be created by the State to which
such lands are granted and by no other authority whatever, and when created shall be valid on and against the
separate legal subdivisions of land reclaimed, for the
actual cost and necessary expenses of reclamation and
reasonable interest thereon. . . ." This statute is an
enabling act, empowering the state to provide for liens
by appropriate legislation. The construction of state
statutes so enacted, and the status of liens created under
them are local questions (Equitable Trust Co. v. Cassia
County, 15 Fed. (2d) 955) which, in the absence of controlling authority by the, highest court of the state, we
must determine for ourselves. Risty v. Chicago, R. I. &
Pac. Ry., 270 U. S. 378. By the act of the Idaho legislature accepting the benefits of the Carey Act (§ 3019
Comp. Stat. 1919), it is provided:
"Any person, company or association, furnishing water
for any tract of land, shall have a first and prior lien on
said water right and land upon which said water is used,
for all deferred payments for said water right; said lien
to be in all respects prior to any and all other liens created
or attempted to be created by the owner and possessor
of said land; said lien to remain in full force and effect
until the last deferred payment for the water right is
fully paid and satisfied according to the terms of the
contract under which said water right was acquired."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

The construction company was a company furnishing
water within the meaning of the section, and the liens
for the deferred payments now asserted by respondents

are liens in its favor, authorized by the statute and
reserved by its contracts with the purchasers.

But it is

argued, notwithstanding the broad language of the statute, that its application is limited by the second clause:
"said lien to be in all respects prior to any and all other
liens created or attempted to be created by the owner
and possessor of said land." It is insisted, as the district
court held, that by reason of this clause the liens to secure
deferred payments do not take priority over the liens
for maintenance because the latter are not liens created
by the land owners, which -alone are subordinated to
the purchase contract liens.
But we think the quoted clause cannot be thus narrowly construed. It is not in terms a limitation on the
general language of the section but an amplification of
it. Its apparent purpose is to make certain that entrymen, in the process of acquiring their lands and making
the water rights appurtenant to them, may not by any
legal device create liens which shall come ahead of the
purchase contract liens given to secure the deferred payments. The clause provides that the authorized liens
on the water rights and lands shall have priority over
all liens created by the land owners themselves, but that
is not equivalent to saying that they shall be prior to no
others. It is of course an implied term of every lien
statute that the lien authorized is subordinate to liens
for taxes. Continental & Commercial Trust & Savings
Bank v. Werner, 36 Idaho 601, 602. If the meaning here
contended for were given to the statute, liens for the
unpaid purchase price would be subject to subsequent
materialmen's and mechanics' liens and those of attachment and levy of execution. The statute obviously

PORTNEUF-MARSH CO. v. BROWN.
630

Opinion of the Court.

could not be so interpreted without thwarting its plain
purpose and destroying its effective operation.
Its primary object was to secure the requisite capital
for the creation of costly irrigation systems by which arid
public lands could be brought under cultivation. It
could not have been contemplated that the "first and
prior" liens authorized by the statute to secure the repayment of such capital should be subsequent to every
other lien which might be placed upon the property
except those formally executed by the land owners or
that a "first lien" of that character would attract capital
into a new and hazardous enterprise. The concluding
clause of the section "said lien to remain in full force and
effect until the last deferred payment

.

.

.

is fully

paid and satisfied," can only mean that the liens for purchase money which were first when created, remain so despite maintenance liens which may later come into operation as a result of the non-payment of assessments.
The provisions of the various instruments for establishing the irrigation system, while not explicit, are entirely consistent with the view which we take of the meaning and effect of the statute. The contract between the
two companies provided in substance, as did the by-laws
of the operating company specifically (Art. V, §8) that
all shares of stock "shall be held subject to the rights of"
the construction company "until the amount due such
Company its successors or assigns, shall have been fully
. paid, as provided in the contract between said
corporation and the purchaser of shares ..
. "
It is significant also that c. 138 of the Compiled Statutes of Idaho, which provides for the regulation of Carey
Act operating companies, contains specific provisions for
establishing maintenance liens on Carey Act lands to
which the water rights are appurtenant, by filing a notice
of lien with the county recorder, §§ 3040, 3042, a proce-

