ALSTON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

284

gross receipts from interstate commerce, in reality upon
property beyond the State's jurisdiction. As already
pointed out, this assumption conflicts with the definite
ruling of the highest court of the State.
The claim that equal protection of the laws has been
denied rests upon the assertion, first, that an unlawful
tax has been imposed upon the gross proceeds from sales
regardless of their place and, second, that the exemption
of ten thousand dollars from gross income by § 2-h creates
undue inequality. The true meaning of the statute and
the thing actually taxed oppose the first assertion. We
cannot say that the Legislature acted either arbitrarily
or unreasonably by authorizing the deduction. Nothing
indicates a purpose to extend different treatment to those
of the same class; no actual unreasonable inequality has
been shown. Plaintiff in error is permitted to deduct ten
thousand dollars; the same privilege, and nothing more,
is extended to all other producers. Lake Superior Mines
v. Lord, 271 U. S. 577; Swiss Oil Corporationv. Shanks,
273 U. S.407.
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this cause.

ALSTON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 898. Argued April 14, 1927.--Decided May 16, 1927.
1. Section 9 of the original Harrison Narcotic Act, prescribing that
any person who violates or fails to comply with any requirements
of the Act shall be punished in a manner prescribed, applies also
to violations of requirements added to the Act by subsequent
amendments. P. 294.
55514°-28---19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Alston.

274 U. S.

2. The provisions of § 1 of this Act, as amended, which impose a
stamp tax on certain drugs and declare it unlawful to purchase or
sell them except in or from original stamped packages, are within
the taxing power of Congress, and have no necessary connection
with any other requirement of the Act which may be subject to
reasonable disputation. P. 294.
District Court affirmed.

THIS was a prosecution for purchasing morphine and
cocaine from unstamped packages. Plaintiff in error,
after pleading guilty and being sentenced, took the case
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which referred certain
questions to this Court upon a certificate. The entire
cause was brought up and decided under Jud. Code § 239.
Messrs. HooperAlexander and FransE. Lindquist, with
whom Messrs. John B. Boddie, Win. H. Mason, Richard
0. Mason, and Thomas W. Hardwick were on the brief,
for Alston.
The statute is invalid. UnitedStates v. Daugherty,269
U. S. 360; Doremus v. United States, 249 U. S. 86; Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Bailey v. Drexel Furniture
Co., 259 U. S. 20; Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 41;
McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U.
S. 251; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Linder v. United
States, 268 U. S. 5; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241
U. S. 394. The invalidity goes to the whole Act. Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S. 70.
The amendments of 1919 and 1921 were included in the
Revenue Acts of those years. Had they appeared there as
independent enactments, they might be earnestly supported as bona fide excise taxes legitimately imposed in
the exercise by Congress of its undoubted power under the
first enumerated grant in the Constitution. We take it
to be recognized law that where an act of Congress is
unconstitutional and void, and must fall for that reason,
it necessarily drags down with it every string that is tied

ALSTON v. UNITED STATES.
289

Argument for the United States.

to it. An unconstitutional law is no law, and therefore
the amendment must fall because there was nothing to
amend by.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the United States.
These provisions of the Act are clearly valid under the
power to levy taxes. They are intended to produce revenue; they actually produce substantial revenue; they
do not have the effect of prohibiting transactions; the
taxes are not imposed as penalties for infraction of law,
and there are no discriminating provisions to indicate that
by colorable use of the taxing power Congress is attempting to invade the police power of the States.
The provisions of § 2 relating to order forms and possession of drugs and which have the effect, among other
things, of preventing individuals, not registered physicians
or legitimate dealers who have paid the required occupation taxes, from purchasing and possessing the drug other
than by means of medical prescriptions, which provisions
are the only ones heretofore seriously questioned, are readily severable, and the remainder of the Act may and should
be sustained regardless of their validity.
The order-form provisions, aside from the one which
prohibits sale of order forms to other than registered
physicians and dealers, are clearly valid as tending to enforce the stamp and occupation tax provisions. In so far
as they prevent the purchase by an unregistered individual of quantities of the drug exceeding his personal
requirements, they are valid as enforcing the occupation
tax on dealers, because such a purchase is only made by
one who proposes to sell the drug. To the same extent
the order-form provisions may be sustained as in aid of
the Narcotic Drugs Import and Export Act, which prohibits the importation of the drugs in excess of an amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

required for medicinal and legitimate use, as they trace
the use to which the imports are devoted and operate to
disclose smuggling.
In addition the Opium Convention required the United
States to enact such legislation. The public records show
that the Harrison Act as amended has the double purpose
of raising revenue and executing the treaty, and was enacted after the treaty had been signed, and the Act, by
its terms, took effect after the treaty became operative.
The public records show that no opium or coca leaves are
produced in the United States, but all materials from
which opium, morphine, or cocaine are derived are imported. The order form and possession clauses of Section 2 of the Harrison Act may not be held invalid without at the same time striking down the Opium Convention as beyond the treaty power. The narcotic problem
has been historically proved to be an international problem, unsolvable except by general international agreement. If the narcotic problem is a proper subject of

international agreement and the domestic legislation stipulated for in it is germane and reasonably required to
make the international agreement effective, the treaty
and the laws executing it are valid. That this is the case
has been declared by the President and the Senate in
negotiating and ratifying the treaty, by Congress in enacting this legislation to execute it, and by high Executive officials of the United States who have studied the
problem.
MR. J-UsicIC

MCRYNoLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In the United States District Court, Southern District
of Iowa, an indictment with three counts, filed December
2, 1924, charged Alston with violating § 1, Harrison Narcotic Act, approved December 17, 1914, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785,
as amended February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1130,

ALSTON v. UNITED STATES.
289

Opinion of the Court.

1131, by purchasing morphine and cocaine from unstamped packages. He pleaded "guilty" and was sentenced to the penitentiary. A writ of error took the
cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit,
and it asled our instruction upon certain questions.
Thereupon, we required the entire record to be sent here
for final determination of the whole matter. § 239,
Jud. Code.
Sections 1 and 6 of the Harrison Narcotic Act were
amended by the Act of February 24, 1919, and, as thus
amended, were reenacted without change by §§ 1005 and
1006, Revenue Act approved November 23, 1921, c. 136,
42 Stat. 227, 298, 300. The amending Act added the following provisions (among others) to Section 1.
"That there shall be levied, assessed, collected, and
paid upon opium, coca leaves, any compound, salt, derivative, or preparation thereof, produced in or imported
into the United States, and sold, or removed for consumption or sale, an internal-revenue tax at the rate of
1 cent per ounce, and any fractibn of an ounce in a package shall be taxed as an ounce, such tax to be paid by the
importer, manufacturer, producer, or compounder thereof, and to be represented by appropriate stamps, to be
provided by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury; and the
stamps herein provided shall be so affixed to the bottle
or other container as to securely seal the stopper, covering, or wrapper thereof.
"The tax imposed by this section shall be in addition
to any import duty imposed on the aforesaid drugs.
"It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, sell,
dispense, or distribute any of the aforesaid drugs except
in the original stamped package or from the original
stamped package; and the absence of appropriate taxpaid stamps from any of the aforesaid drugs shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section by the

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

274 U. S.

person in whose possession same may be found; and the
possession of any original stamped package containing
any of the aforesaid drugs by any person who has not
registered and paid special taxes as required by this section shall be prima facie evidence of liability to such
special tax: Provided, . .
Section 9 of the original Harrison Act has remained
without change. It provides: " That any person who
violates or fails to comply with any of the requirements
of this Act shall, on conviction, be fined not more than
$2,000 or be imprisoned not more than five years, or both,
in the discretion of the court."
The judgment of the trial court is assailed upon two
grounds: That Congress has failed to prescribe any punishment for the purchase of drugs from unstamped packages, forbidden by amended § 1. And, that the entire
Act, as amended, is invalid because Congress has. undertaken thereby to regulate matters beyond its powers and
within exclusive control of the States.
Section 9, above quoted, obviously applies to the requirements of the amended Act as well as to those found
in the original. The first objection has no merit.
The present cause arises under those provisions of § 1
which impose a stamp tax on certain drugs and declare
it unlawful to purchase or sell them except in or from
original stamped packages. These provisions are clearly
within the power of Congress to lay taxes and have no
necessary connection with any requirement of the Act
which may be subject to reasonable disputation. They
do not absolutely prohibit buying or selling; have produced substantial revenue; contain nothing to indicate
that by colorable use of taxation Congress is attempting
to invade the reserved powers of the States. The impositions are not penalties.
The judgment of the trial court must be
Affirmed,

