SUPREME COURT
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

December Term 1803.
Crawford et al. versus Willing et al.

T

HIS wts an action of account render, brought by Crawford
and Co. of Rotterdam against Willing and Morris of Philade/phia. There was a judgment quod computent, under which
the auditors reported, " that the sum of 16581. 11s. 8d. Pennsylvania currency is due fiom'th defendants to the plaintiffs; but
not being agreed, with respect to an allowance of interest, they
submit that point to the Court." The plaintiffs thereupon filed a
suggestion, It that the defendants ought to be charged 37701. 15s.
for interest, on the several sums of money by themaccounted for,
in their account, mentioned in the report of the auditors; and
that the plaintiffs are entitled to have and recover from the defendants the said sum of 3770/. 15s. as well as the principal." To
this suggestion the defendants pleaded, Ist. " That they ought
not to be charged with the said sum of 37701. 15s. for interest,
&c. and that the plaintiffs are not justly entitled to have and recover the same, &c. because, they say, that the same, or any part
thereof, is'not justly due from the defendants to the plaintiffs: and
ihis they pray may be inquired, &c." 2d. Payment of the principal
sum. 3d. The bankruptcy and certificate of M'forris, one of the
defendants. Issue was joined on the first plea; and the second
and third were confessed.
On the evidence, it appeared, that the transactions on which
the debt to the plaintiffs was founded, occurred before the year
1775; that during the years 1775 and 1776, and during several
years after the war, the debt was repeatedly acknowledged, and a
remittance of the amount promised, in a correspondence between
the plaintiffs and Mlorris, as the acting partner of the defendants;
that

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C,

287

thatthe partnership commenced by articles dated the 1st of .a'nu. 1803.
ary 1773, and continued for five years; that the partnership was
renewed, taking Swanwick in as a partner in the year 1783;
that partial remittances were made by Morris in the year 1786,
which reduced the balance of the principal sum to the amount
reForted by the auditors; and that Willing never knew of the
plaintiff's demand, until the present suit was amicably instituted.
by agreement with Morris alone, dated the 4th of August 1798.
E. Tilghinan and Ingersoll, for the plaintiffs, proposed to inquire, 1st. Whether considered as a commercial case, generally,
it is not a case in which interest ought to be allowed? 2d. Whether the special circumstances of the case, exclude the claim of
interest, with reference to the law of partnership? 3d. Whether
the case is affected by the existence and operation of the revolutionary war?
1st. It is truef that, in the old books, the claim of interest upon
simple contract *debts, is treated with great rigour, and allowed
only in the case of a note; but the law, gradually accommodating
itself to common sense and common honesty, is at length settled,
that for money lent; for liquidated balances: nay for goods sold
and delivered, 'wherethe usual credit is expired; for money detained, which ought to b6 paid over, and during the continuance,
as well as before the commencement of a suit; the creditor shall
be entitled to interest. 1 Dall. Rep. 349. 1 Fr. Vezey, 63. Rep.
temp. Hard.(Ridg'way) 286. 1 Vez. 310. 3 Br. C11. 436. Doug.
361. And, under circumstances of vexatious delay, interest may
be recovered, even beyond the amount of the principal. Atk. 80.
2 Vez.j. 300.
2d. The debt was contracted, the correspondence was carried
on, during the existence of the partnership, between Willing and
Horris. Each partner was, therefore, liable, not as a surety, but
as a principal, for the lawful contracts and transactions of the
other, in relation to their joint business. 1 Wis. 682. 3 F. Vez
277. Bankrupt Act of Congress, s. 34. Doug. 629.
3d. The Courts of Pennsylvania (differing in their view of the
subject from the federal Courts) have made an abatement of interest during the continuance 6f the revolutionary war (a period
computed at seven years and a half) in suits brought by Britisi
creditors, against American citizens, the immediate parties to the
war: but there is neither law, justice, nor precedent in anCourt, for applying the rule to suits brought by the citizens of t
neutral, or friendly, nation: And as to the practicability, as well
as the lawfulness, of a remittance, it is notorious, that the inter .
course between the United States and Holland was never suspended, at any period of the contest.
Lewis, for the defendants, stated his general position to be, dhai
interest i- nQt due or course, upon an account current; or an unliquidated

a88

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1803. liquidated debt. 1 frilz. 376. 3 Wil. 205. 1 Dall. 349. Doug.
~ 361. 1 Dall. 265. 3 Dall. 313. 1 P. Wins. 376. 3 P. Min:;. 205.
Doug. 361. Durden v. Gasqkill; and that the peculiar circumstances of the present case, will not warrant a departure from the general rule. The cases cited for t-e plaintiffs are, indeed, inapplicable to the real point at issue. Thus, 1 Dtdl. Rep. 349, was the
case of a single sum of money, received at one time, by the de.
fendukt from the plaintiff's agent; not the case of an open, running, account. The cases in IF. Vez. 63, hnd Ridgw. 286. go no
farther than to show, that when a sum is ascertained to be due,
by settlement, or liquidation, of accounts, interest begins to run.
The case in 1 Mez. 310, contains,indeed, the strong exptession, that
interest follows the principal, as a shadow does the substance; but
the'expression must be applied to the subject before the Court:
which was a legacy, for the education of a child, bearing interest
from the very nature of the bequest. 'And the case in 1 Wils. 682.
arose upon -a joint and several bond.,
To the general position, however, that interest is not payable,
n cases of account current, and othtr simple contract debts,
Zrbzois admitted there were various exceptions: 1st. Where
,here is an express contract to pay interest. 2d. Where the accounts have been settled, and a liquidated balance ascertained.
3d. .Where a debt consists of a single sum of money, and no ac*count current has been raised between the creditor and debtor.
4th. Where there has been an unreasonable detention of money,
after a demand of payment, or a refusal to come to a settlement.
But, he insisted, that there was no authority, in any case, to
justify a verdict for interest, beyond the amount of the principal;
not even upon a bond, if the creditor has neglected to demand
payment for several years. 14 Vin. Abr. 460.
But, adverting to the peculiar circumstances'of the case, L eris
contended, 1st. That there was a wide distinction between the
responsibility of 17Morris, mad that of IVilling: the correspondence
being exclusively with the former, and no demand of payment,
no notice of the claim, to the latter, till 1798, long after the dissolution of the partnership. The act, or assumption, of one partner, to bind the company, must take place during the continuance of the partnership; and here the only promise made'by
Morris, during the partnership, was in the year 1775; before the
money was received, and merely importing, that the defendants
would remit it, when it was collected; which, surely, is no foundAtion for the charge of interest. 3 Bac. Abr. 517. 2 entr 151.
So far, ' therefore, as respects Willing, it is a stale demand,
against which every presumption will be made. Cowp. 215.
SVils. 742. 1 Atk. 493. Gitb. Eq. 224. 2d. That the operations
of the war, and the high state of exchange, afford a justification
for not remitting till the peace of 1783; and after that epoch, no
lemand was made upon Willing, till the suit was brought.

SuPREMr COUiT or PENNSYLVANIA.

2a!

By 111e- COURT: (1) The auditors have ascertained the princi- 1803.
pal sutn, that is due from the defendants to the plaintiffs; leaving
to the Court the question of interest. The only point now to be
decided, therefore, is whether any, and what, interest, ought to
be paid upon the debt so ascertained?
The inquiry has been naturally, and fairly, pursued, under the
considerations suggested at the bar: 1st. Whether, on general
principles, it is a case, in which interest can be allowed?
7d. Whether any circumstances, peculiar to the case, in relation
to the parties, should prevent the allowance of interest here, in
opposition to a general rule? 3d. Whether the effect of the revolutionarv war was such, as to suspend the right to interest, for
any, and for what, period?
1st. Whatever may have been the doctrine in former times,
we have traced, with pleasure, the progress of improvement,
upon the subject of interest, to the honest and rational rule, that,
wherever one man retains the money of another, against his declared will, the legal compensation, for the use of money, slall
be charged and allowed. From the single case of a promissory
note, the instances, in which interest is allowed, have been so
multiplied, year.after year, that few remain to be added to the
legal catalogue. In Pennsylvania the policy is older, and still,
perhaps, more extensive, than it is in England. There, even at
this day, an action must be brought upon a judgment, in order
to recover interest upon it; but here, our act of assembly, so
early as the year 1715, made the interest an inseparable incident
of the judgment. For my own part, I am prepared to say, with
the book cited, that interest ought to follow a debt, as the shadow
does its substance. Even, in the case of goods sold and delivered, I would think it right to allow interest, as soon as the express, dr the implied, term of credit had elapsed, and a demand
of payment was made. (2)
In the present action, there can be no doubt, that the balance
had long been ascertained and acknowledged. In England,it is
the practice of merchants to balance their accounts annually;
and, by that means, the interest of each year becomes principal,
in the new account of the succeeding year. Without adopting
that practice, it is clearly our opinion, that the defendants are'liable for the interest actually claimed, unless some special reason
cxemts them from the general obligation of inerchants.
(1) This cause was tried before SMIT,

and BRACxE-;RIDcE, 7ustices; the

CHIEr JUSTICe declining to sit, on account of his relationship to Mr. Willi.g;
and YEATES, yustice, being absent, ou account of indisposition. The charge

was delivered by Judge SNTz'r.
(2) In the course of the trial, SMITH, Yustice, declared, that the authority
of 1 Dall.265. (laying down the rule, that interest was not payable for goods
sold and delivered) had beca oftcu overruled.

VOL. IV

2P

2d. Th-

a9(
1803.
'

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED

IN THE

2d. The circumstances suggested, to distinguish the responsibility of Mr. Willing, from that of his partner, are not a suffi-

cient legal, or equitable, answer, to the demand of the plaintiffs.
In Watson's treatise, on the law of partnership, the cases on this
point are collected and arranged. The result of the whole is,
that, during the partnership, all the partners are answerable for
the acts of each. It is no ground of discrimination .in this respect, which partner actually received the funds; which was intrusted to transact the business, or which was ignorant of the
state of the debit and credit, of the company books. If, indeed,
a public notice is given by one partner, of the dissolution of
-a partnership; and creditors, unreasonably neglecting it, will
place funds in the hands of the other partner, they must take the
consequence of their own imprudence. But the present case is
free from every embarrassment of this kind. The debt was contracted during the partnership; and all that was written about it,
both before, and after, the termination of the partnership, was
written by Mr. Morris alone, without any objection, on the part of
Mr. Willing; whose conduct, on the contraryw, gave reason to
presume consent and approbation.
3d. Nor will the effect of the revolutionary war, furnish the
defendants with a justification, or excuse, against the claim of
interest. We all know the eminent services of Mr. korris to
his country; and the pre-eminent credit of the house of Willing
and M4orris, throughout the war. But these very advantages show,
that the defendants, of all men, had it in their fiower to remit the
funds, for the payment of their debts, due in neutral countries.
This, then, is our general position: the defendants are liable,
for the payment of interest, from the time the money was in
their hands, demanded and neglected to be paid, until the war;
during the war, if remittances could safely be made; and (if they
could not be safely made during the war) then from the peace of
1783, until the actual recovery of the principal.
Unless, upon the whole, the jury can discover some ground
of excuse, which we have not been able to trace, the interest
ought to be allowed, in justice to the plaintiffs: and, we will add,
in justice to the commercial character of our country.

The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, for 4422 dollars and
89 cents. (3)
(3) This sum, it is plain, was not equal to one half of the interest claimed
(and the calculation of interest was in a mode favourable to the defend.
ants) but it was exactly equal to the principal sum reported by the auditors.
It is presumed, therefore, that the jury thought the interest ought not to be
allowed beyond the principal.

Cranmond

