SUPREME COURT
OF THE

UNITED STATES.

August. Term .1800.
Present,

PATERSON,

CHASE,

juitices.

WASHINGTON, and

MOORE,

Priestman, Plaintiff in Error, versus The United States.
N error from the Circuit Court, for the Pennsylvania district.,
An information was filed in the District Court in the following terms:
" Be it remnbered, that on this 16th day of 7anuary, one
" thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight, into the District
" Court of the United States for the. Pennsylvania district, in
" his proper person comes William Rawle attorney for the said
, United States for the district aforesaid, who for the said
" United States, in- this behalf prosecutes and for the said United
" States gi-es the court here to understand and be informed that
" between the first day of Noveinber last past and the exhibition
" of this bill two hundred and three silver watches, three gold
watches, two enamelled watches, two metal watches, two hunting watches, and seven pinchbeck watches, being articles of
foreign manufacture and liable to the payment of duties imposed by the laws of the United S'ates and being together of
" the value of eight hundred dollars and more were transported
"from the state of _Aaryland across the state of Delaware, to
" the district of Pennsylvania without a permit from the colled.
" tor of any district in the said state of MTraryland, for that pur" pose first had and obtained.
" And the attorney aforesaid prosecuting as aforesaid further
gives the Court to understand and be informed that the'said
goods wares and mdrchandizes so as aforesaid transported to

the

CAsES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TUE SUPREME COURT

2V.

" the district of Pennsylvania were not within twenty-four hours 1800.
"after the arrival thereof in the said district of Pennsylvania t
" reported to the collector of the said district of Pennsylvania
11 by the owner or consignee thereof or by any other person
" whatever.

" Whereby and by force of the acts of the congress of the said
"United States the said 203 silver watches, 3 gold watches, 2
"enamelled watches, 2 metal watches, 2 hunting watches, and 7
"pinchbeck watches, have become forfeited to the said United
"IS
States and for the causes afofesaid have been seized by Sharp
" Delany, esquire, collector of the said district of Pennsylvania,
" and are~now in the custody of the marshal, &c. Wherefore the
" said attorney prosecuting as aforesaid .prays the advice of the
" Court upon the premises, and due process, &c. &c."

This'informatlon was founded on the act of congress, entitled
" An act for'enrolling and licensing ships, or vessels, to be em-

ployed in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for regulating
" the same;" 2 vol. 168. and,.particularly, upon the I9th section

of the act, which is in these words:
" Sec. 19. And be it further enacted, That it shall and may
"be lawful for the collector of the district of Pennsylvania,to
"grant permits for the transportation of goods, wares or mer"chandize of foreign growth or manufacture, across the state of
"New-,ersey, to the district of Newzorhl, or across the state of
"Delaware, to any district in the state of Maryland or Virginia;
"and for the collector of the district of New-21ork, to grant like.
"permits for the transportation across the state of New-.ersey;
"and for the collector of any district of Maryland or Virginia, to
grant like permits for the transportatioi across the state-of Delaware, to the district of Pennsylvania: Provided,That every tuch
"permit shall express the name of the owner, or -person sending
"such goods, and of the person or persons, to whom such goods
"shallbe consigned, with the marks, numbers and description ofthe
"packages, whether bale, box, chest, or otherwise, and the kind
"of goods contained therein, and the date, when granted; and
"the owner or person sendingiuch goods, shall swear or affirm,
"that they were legally imported, and the duties thereupon paid
"or secured: Andprovided ako, That the owner or consignee of
"all such goods, wares and merchandize, shall, within twenty-,
four hours after the arrival thereof, "atthe place to which they
"were permitted to be transported, report the same to the col"lector of the district where they shall so airive, and" shall deli"ver up the permit accompanying the saffie, and if the owner or
"consignee aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse to make due entry
"of such goods within the time, and in the manner, herein di-"rected,all such goods, wares and merchandize shall be subject
('to forfeiture; and if the permit granted shall not be given up,
" withhi-

30

CASEs RULED

AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. "cwithin the time limited for.making the said report, the person
" or persons to whom it was granted, neglecting or refusing to
" deliver it up, shall forfeit fifty dollars for every twenty-four
" hours it shall be withheld afterwards: Provided, That where
" the goods, wares and merchandize, to be transported in manner
" aforesaid, shall be of less value than eight hundred dollars, the
"said oath and permit shall not be deemed necessary, nor shall
"the owner or consignee be obliged to make report to the col"lector of the district where the said goods, wares and merchan" dize shall arrive."
William Priestman,the plaintiff in error, filed a claim for the
watches, setting forth "that he had paid the duties upon them,
and that he did not transport them from the district of Maryland,
across the stdte of Delaware, into the district of Pennsylvania."
The attorney of the district having filed a general replication to
the claim, a case was made for the opinion of the Court, in which
the material facts were stated, as follows:
" That the watches in question were of the value of 3,q99
"dollars. That they were imported into the district of Maryland,
" and the duties thereon paid, or secured, according to law. That
"they were afterwards varried by the claimant, or his agent,
"from the district of .Maryland, across the state of Delaware,
"to the state of Pennsylvania,to wit, to the city of Philadelphia,
"without any licence, or permit, so to do, first had and obtahied
" from the collector of the port of Baltimore; and that no notice
"was given to the collector of the port of Philadelphia. That the
"watches were publicly offered for sale, next door to the custom"house, in the city of Phikldelphia with a number of other arti"cles; and were afterwards seized as forfeited. That the watches
"did not belong to the master, owner, or any mariner of the ship,
" or vessel, in which they were imported from beyond sea into
"1Baltimore; nor was the claimant captain, owner, or mariner, of
" the packet-boat, in which they were brought from Baltimore to
" French-town, or from Newcastle to Philadelphia."
The case was argued before the District Judge, in December
1798, and a decree of condemnation pronounced; which was
affirmed upon a writ of error to the Circuit Court, in Aprilterm
1800; (1) and, thereup6n, the cause was removed into this Court;
and
(1) The Ciicuit Court was composed of CHAsE, .7ustice, and PzTEILs,
:District.7udge. The presiding Judge, in delivering the opinion of the Court,
imade the following observations:
CHASE, _ustice. By the rules, which are laid down in REnjladd for the construction of statutes, and the latitude which has been indulged in their application, the BritishJudges have assumed a legislative power; and on the pre.
tence ofjudicial exposition, have, in fact, made a great portion'of the statute
law of the kingdom. Of thoie rules of construction, none can be more dange-os, than that, wh'ch distinguishing between the intent, and the words, of
the

SUPImE3IE. COUPT Oi TIHE UNITED STATES,

31

and argued, upon the same facts, by the district attorney, (Rawlef 1800.
in the absence of Lee, attorney-general) for the United States, k
assisted by T. Sergeant, for the informer; and by Ingersoll and
S. Levy, for the plaintiff in error.
For the plaintiff in error. This is a penal act, and must, on
general principles, be construed strictly. 1 Black. Com. 88. 92.
.Plowd. 109. 3 Co. 7. Plozvd. 13. b. 19 Vin. Abr. 523, 4.
8 lfod. 7. 65. 10 Co. 73. Cowp. 355. 660. In the particular
case, before the Court, the facts call for the most liberal exposition in favour of the claimant; since, there is not the slightest
ground to impute a fraudulent intention to him; nor could there
be the smallest logs of revenue to the public. Taking, then, the
33d section of the same act of congress into view, to form a just
conclusion from the whole, the watches in question are exempted
from any forfeiture, because the did not belong to the master,
owner, or mariners, of the vessel, in which they were imported,
and because the duties upon themI had been previously paid, or
secured. (2) It must, indeed, be admitted, that there is an appa.
rent contradiction between the 19th section, .which imposes the
forfeiture, if the owner, or consignee of the goods, neglects to
perform the duties prescribed; and the 33d section, which exempts the goods from forfeiture, if they belong to any person,
other than the owner, master, or mariners, of the vessel: but the
different parts of statutes should be so construed, that each, if
possible, may have an operation, consistent and harmonious with
the rest. Admitting, therefore,.that the claimant is within the

-

the legislature, declares, that a case not within the meaning of a statute, according to the opinion of the Judges, shall not be embraced in the operation
of the statute, although it is clearly within the words: or, vice Versa, that a
case within the meaning, though not within the words, shall be embraced.
For my part, however, sitting in an American Court, I shall always deem it
a duty to conform to the expressions of the legislature, to-the letter of the
statute, when free from ambiguity and doubt; without indulging a speculation,
either upon the impolicy, or the hardship, of the law. In the present instance,
the clause of forfeiture is clear, direct, and positive. If the provision of the
3d section were equally clear, and necessarily connected with the subject of the
19th section, itwould, undoubtedly, control the clause of forfeiture. But say
even, that the 33d section is obscure in its terms, and doubtful in its relation
(which I do not admit) this would not induce me to supersede, control, and
annul, what is neither obscure, nor doubtful, in the provisions of the 19th
section.
Upon the whole, the effect, in the present case, will, probably, be severe
upon the claimant, if he has ofily been guilty of an act of negligence: but the
law does not distinguish, as to the present object, between a careless, and a.
fraudulent,.omission of the duty prescribed, and the Court cannot do it.
(2) Sec. 33. " P r ovi d e d neverthdes:, and be it further enacted, That in aln
"cases where the whole, or any part, of the lading, or cargo, on board any
ship, or vessel, shall belong bond Ifide to any person, or persons, other than
"the master, owner, or mariners, of' such ship, or vessel, and upon which the
duties shall have been previously paid, or secured, according to law, shall
"be exempted fi'om any forfeiture under this act, any thing herein centdnled
to the contrary notwithstanding."
description

3

CASES RULED AkfD ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. description of the 19th section, to incur a forfeiture, the apparent
contradiction of the law will be obviated, by admitting, also, that

'

-

the previous payment of the duties on the goods, exempts him
from the forfeiture, under the 33d section. Besides, the information does not state, that the master of the vessel had no manifest; and to constitute the offence the act of irregular transporta.
tion must be connected with the want of a manifest, conf'ormably
to the 18th section. The 19th section (and, indeed, the whole of
the law, Which is made emphatically to regulate the coasting
trade) from the plain import of its language, applies to cases of
water carriage, and cases of water carriage are equally the subject
of the 33d section. Nor is there any thing in the case stated to
show that the watches were not transported coast-wise; or brought
in the owner's private carriage; and even the 19th section does
not contain an injunction upon the owner to take out apermit for
his goods, on which he has paid the duties, to whatever place he
may dhuse to remove them.
For the United States. Though penal laws are to be strictly
construed, they are to be fairly and truly construed, according to
the plain and natural signification of the words employed. 2 Ld.
Raym. 1421. 1 Eall. Rep. 197. 10 Co. 73. If, however, the
claimant's construction should prevail, the sweeping operation of
the 33d section of the act would annihilate its most positive and
most salutary sanctions: but a proviso, so repugnant to the enacting clauses, would itself be void. 1 B. Corn. 1 Co. Rep. 47. a.
The case stated brings the facts precisely within the information;
and the information is precisely within the 19th section. The
forfeiture is, therefore, complete, and must be enforced by the
Court, unless it is remitted by the operation of the 33d section.
It becomes important, then, to inquire, 1st. What is the true
meaning of this ambiguous, and, certainly, ungrammatical clause?
and, 2d. To what does the true meaning relate?
1st. The first difficulty that occurs, in settling the meafiing of the
33d section, arises from the indefinite call for a noun, to correspond with the verb, where several nouns are introduced, and all
cannot be applied. Is it the ship, the master,or the cargo, which,
in the specified case, "shall be exempted from any forfeiture? "
The marginal note declares the exemption in favour of the ship;
but the argument of the claimant, isks it for the cargo. The
33d section, however, is, in form and substance, a proviso; and,
as such, naturally refers to the next preceding section, where are
to be found the offences, from which the forfeiture springs, and
the subject on which the forfeiture attaches; s. 32. to wit: 1st.
The transfer of a licensed ship to an alien. 2d. The empl6yment
of a licensed vessel in a trade.not licensed. 3d. The possession
of a forged, or altered, licence. 4th. The possession of a licence
granted for another ship. In the four cases, the ship and the
cargo

SUPRzEM[E COURT O

TUE UNITED STAT.TE.

3

+aigo on board, are declared to be the subject of forfeiture. 1800.
But the exemption from forfeiture, contained in the 33d section,
is not, in the generality of the expression, confined to the four
cases; but extends to "any forfeiture under this act, any thing
" therein contained to the contrary notwithstanding." Must not
the nature of the offence be considered, then, to qualify the generality of the expression? In the 5th section it is enacted, that if
a vessel is found with a forged, or altered, licence; or makesuse of a licence granted for another vessel, the offending vessel,
and the cargo on board, shall be forfeited. In the 6th section it
is enacted, that if a vessel is found in the coasting trade, or carrying on the fisheries, without being enrolled and licensed, and
having a foreign cargo, or distilled spirits, on board, she and her
lading shall be forfeited. In the 8th section it is enacted, that if
an enrolled, or licensed, vessel sails on a foteign voyage without
first surrendering her licence, and-taking out a register, she and
her cargo shall be forfeited. And in the 21st section it is enacted, that if a vessel licensed for the fisheries, is found within three
leagues of the coast, with foreign merchandize on board, exceeding in value 500 dollars, she and, her cargo shall be forfeited,
unless she had previously obtained permission to touch at a foreign port. Now, in all these sections the forfeiture of the cargo
is accumulative, derivative, and accessary, to the forfeiture of the
vessel-; and the punishment is inflicted for offences committed
by the master5 or owner, of the vessel. Hence, the policy and
juftice of the provison Qf.the 33d section, in contemplation of
such cases, to prevent one man's suffering for another man's
wrong, by exempting from forfeiture, the cargo on board the delinquent vessel, to whose owners, master, or mariners, the cargo
did not belong. With reference, therefore, to the nature of the
offences, enumerated in the next preceding section, the exemption from " any forfeiture under, this act,' must be- confined to
forfeitures of the -same kind; that is, to forfeitures of vessels and
their cargoes, for the ac-cs, or omissions, of the owners, or masters, of the vessels. But, still, there are specific and appropriate
forfeitures, arising from the misconduct of the owners of goods.
Thus, if the owner of goods transport them, by owater, from district to district, they must be accompanied with a manifest, or
they will be liable to forfeiture, under-the 18th section. And,
if he transport them by land, he must obtain a permit, under the
same penalty, in compliance with the 19th section. The same
principle, which suggested the necessity of a manifest in the one
case, required the permit in the other; and if the goods are not
included in the manifest, or, of course, if not included in the
,permit, they are forfeited. It is idle to argue from the supposed,
inutility of requiring the permit. It is an incident in a general
system, that must be maintained in all its parts; for, at the
slightest aperture, the most inconvenient mischiefs may enter.
VOL. IV
F
2d. In

54

CA.sEs RULED

AND

ADJUDGED IN THE

2d. In answering the second general inquiry (to what does the
1800.
k
true meaning of the 33d section refer?) it is proper more particularly to observe, that the 19th section clearly provides for the
case of a transportation by land carriage; because it speaks of a
transportation "Iacross a state," which (as no canal is established) must be by land. If by land, it cannot involve the agency of
a ship, or vessel; and as the proviso of the 03d section refers to
the forfeiture of a ship, or vessel, and not of a waggon, or stage,
as it does not describe goods, generally, but a lading, or cargo,
on bohrd, it is utterly inapplicable to a case of internal land carriage; and must be considered as referring only to cases of water
transportation; or, in other words, to the coasting trade.
On the 15th of August, the Judges briefly delivered their opinions, seriatim, concurring in the following result.
By the COURT: The case stated comes clearly within the
19th section of the act of congress, for enrolling and licensing
vessels to be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries. The
provisions of the section are salutary, and were made to guard
against frauds upon the revenue, in the transportation of goods,
of foreign growth, or manufacture, across the several states.
Public policy, national purposes, and the regular operations of
government, require, that the revenue system should be faithfully observed, and strictly executed. It is obvious that th6 claimant, is an offender within the purview of the 19th section. To
purge the offence, he relies upon the 33d section of the same act.
But it is too plain for argument, that ihis section cannot, by -.ay
fair and rational construction, be made to refer to the 19th section.
It is inapplicable, because the objects are entirely different.
Judgment affirmed.

Talbot versus The Ship Amelia, Seeman, Claimant.

ERROR

from the Circuit Court of New 2"ork. It appeared on
the record, that Capt.-Talbot,of the frigate Constitution,having re-captured the Anzelia, "an armed Hamburgh vessel, which
had been captured by 6 French national corvette, and ordered to
St. 17o'ngo, for adjudication, brought her into the 1ort of Newrork. A libel was thereupon filed in the District Court by the
re-captor, setting forth the facts, and praying that the vessel and
cargo might be condemned as prize; or that such other decreemight be pronounced as the Court should deem just and proper.
A claim was filed by I. F. Seenan, for Chapeau Rouge &
Co. of Hdmburgh, the owners, insisting that the property had
not been changed by the capture, and praying restitution with
damages and costs. The District Yudge, HOBART, decreed
one-half of the gross amount of sales of ship and cargo,
without

