20

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800.
CtrsHIN, Justice. Although I am of opinion, that this Cour;
4._.
has the same power, that a Court of the state of Georgia would
possess, to declare the law void, I .do not think that the occasion
would warrant an exercise of the power. The right to confiscate
and banish, in the case of an offending citizen, must belong to
every government. It is not within the judicial power, as created
and regulated by the constitution of Georgia: and it naturally,
as well as tacitly, belongs to the legislature.
By the COURT: Let the judgment be aflirmed with costs.

Williamson, Plaintiff in Error, versus Khicaid,

E.RROR
from the Circuit Court of Georgia. It appeared from
the record, that "ffMarian Ki caid of Great Britain, widow,
"demanded against John G. IVilitamson the one third of 300
acres of land, &c. in Chatham county, as dower. That the
"tenantpleaded, 1st. The actof Georgia(liassed the Ist of Mlarch
"1778) attainting G. Kincaid (the demandant's late husband)
"forfeiting his estate, and vesting it in Georgia, without office.
"2d. The act of the 4th of May 1782, banishing G. Kincaid, and
"confiscating his estate. 3d. The appropriation and sale of the
"lands in question by virtue of the said attaindet and confisca.
"tion, before the 3d of September 1783 (the date of the dc "nitive
treaty of peace) and before G. Kincaid's death. 4th. The alien.
"age of the demandant (who was residefit abroad on the 4th of
"July 1776 and ever since) and therefore incapable of holding
"lands in Georgia. That the demandant replied, that she and
"her husband were inhabitants of Georgia, on the 19th of April
"1775, then under the dominion of Great Britain; that her
"husband continued a subject of Great Britain and never owed
"allegiance to Georgia, nor was ever convicted by any lawful
"authority of any crimes against the state. That the tenant
"demarred to the replication, the demandafht joined in demur"rer, andjudgnient was pronounced by the Circuit Court (corn"posed of WASHINGTON, .7ustice, and CLA-r, District Judge)
"for the demandant." On this judgment the writ of error was
brought, and the following errors assigned.
1. The general errors.
2. The attainder of G. Kincdid and the forfeiture and sale of

his estate; so no right to dower accrued; and no land out -of
which it could be enjoyed.
3. The alienage-of the widow on'the 4th of July 1776 and
ever since- by which she was incapable to take and hold real
estate in Georgi&.
The principal question (whether an alien, British subject, was
entitled, under the treaty of peace, to claim and hold lands in
dower)

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

21

dower) was not discussed, as the judgment was reversed, for 1800.
want of a sufficient description of the parties to the suit, on the
authority of Bingham v. Cabot, 3 Dall 382. and Turner v. The
Bank of .rorth-America. .'nt. But an important point of practice
was previously settled, relative to the mode of ascertaining the
value of the matter in dispute, in actions like the present.
I.or the plaitif in error, it was admitted, in answer to an objection, that the value of the matter in dispute did not appear
upon the record; but it was urged, that, from the nature of the

subject, the demand of the plaintiff could not ascertain it; nor
from the nature of the suit (like a case of ejectment, where
damages are only given for the ouster) could it be fixed by the

finding of a jury, on the judgment of the Court. 3 BI. Com. 35, 6,
As, therefore, there was no act of congress, nor any rule of the
Court, prescribing a mode to ascertain, in such cases, the value
in dispute, that the party may have the benefit of a writ of
error, it was proposed to continue the cause, to afford an opportunity to satisfy the Court, by affidavits of the actual value of
the property.
By the CouRT: Be it so. Let the value of the matter in dispute
be ascertained by affidavits, to be taken on ten days notice to the
demandant, or her counsel in Georgia. But, consequently, the
writ of error is not to be a supersedeas.
Ingersoll and Dalkw, for the plaintiff in error.
E. Tilghman, for the defendant in error.

Blair et al.Plaintiffs in Error, versus Miller et 1.

W

RIT of error from the Circuit Court of Virginia. The
judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court on the 28th
of May 1799, and a writ of error issued returnable to August
term 1799; but the record, was not transmitted, nor the writ returned into the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court, till the
4th of February 1800. Swift objected to the acceptance and return of the record and writ: And,
By the COURT: The writ has become a nullity, beciuse it
was not returned at thetproper term. It cannot, of course, be a
legal instrument, to bring the record of the Circuit Court before
us for revision. (1)
(1) See post. 22. Cource v. Stead e: at.

Rutherford

