'B4

CAsEs RULED -AND ADJUDGED IN TIHZ

1806. words; and if there appf ars to be a contradiction in the expresL
sions, we must seek and pursue, upon the whole, the prevailing
object and intent of the-law. ViLwing, then, all the parts of the
section under consideration, I am of-opinion, that an action may
be removed to the Supreme Court, at any time before, or on, the
first day of the term, succeeding that to which the original writ
is returned. The expression, " first day of the next term after
" the action shll have been commenced," taken by itself would,
certainly, limit the: remov:il to the firs. day of the first term:
but other expressions (I mcn, particularly, the words, "on or
" bfrre") must, also, he considered; and they cannot be satisfied,
if the right of removal is rt stricted to the first dai of the first
term. It is impossible to remove an action, bejre the first
day of the term, to which the wirit is returnable; as the writ of
removal is directed to the Court. in which the attion is brought,
and the Court can have no knowledge of the action, until its session, at the term, ext succeeding its commencement.
I On this view of the stbject, we are of opiinion, that the intention of.the legislature cannot be carried into effect, without so
construing the act, as to admit of the removal of an action; on,
or before, the first day of thb term next after that, to which the
9riginal writ is returnable.
Procedendo refused.

Ozeas versus Johnson; Administrator of Foulke.

for money had and received, &c. The plaintiff, and
C ASE
Foudke, the intestate, had been jointly concerned in a mercantile adventure from Philadelphia to Ecv-Orleans; but there
was no evidence, at the trial, that they had ever settled their accounts; and this action was brought to recover a balance claimed
by the plaintiff. The jury, accordingly, gave a verdict, in his favour, for 320 dollars, subject to the opinion of the Court, on a
point reserved; to wit, whither the plaintiff, being a partner of
Foulke's, and equally concerned in the adventure, could recover
in'the present form of action?
On arguing the point reserved, S. Levy, for the plaintiff, urged
that the action of account render was almost obsolete; that the
action for money had and received, was in nature of a bill in
equity; that, having no distinct Court of equity, equity had be.come, in effect, a part of the common law of Pennsylvania,administered through her common law Courts; and that the sense
of the legislature, on the subject, %vasmanifbstcd in the 6th sec.
tion of the act of the 1st of Mawch 1806 (7 vol. p. 562.) which
provides, " that in all cases where any suit has been brought in
" any Cburt of record witbin this commonweaith, the same shall
"

not

43.

SUPREmiE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

not be set aside for informa]ity, if it appear, that the process 1806.
has issued in the name of the commonwealth, against the de"Cndant, for monies owing, or due, &c." IMats. on Part. 221.
2 Mlez. 239. 1 Bac. br. 31. 36, 37. Co-wl. 795. 1 Dull. Rep.
428. 211.
HIopkins.on, for the defendant, admitted, that if a partnership
is dissolved, and the partnership accounts settled, the creditor
partner may bring an action on the case for the"balance: Wats.
on Part.221. 226. but he contended, that as this was the case of
a special partnership, inwhich no accountof the joint adventure had
be,-n settled, an iction of assurnpsitcould not be sustained. Wats.
116. 2 T. Rep. 476. 478,4.79. 483. 2 Caines, 293. 296. Lamerlen v.
Caze, in the CircuitCourt of the United States, April T. 1806.
The opinion of the Court was delivered by the Chief ustice,
on the 1st of 7anuary 1807, who, having stated the facts and.
point reserved, proceeded as follows:
TILGHMAN, C. Y. It was my wish tW support the action, if
pos~ible; because the jury have decided on the merits of the
cause. But, upon a deliberate consideration 6fthe nature of the
action, and the authorities which have been cited, I am' convinced
that the plaintiff cannot recover. Money Teceived by one partner;
during the partnership, is nQt rcceived for the use of either, but
for the use of both, the partners. All that either partner is entith-d to,.is a moiety of what remains, after all the partnership
debts are paid; and the proper remedy for one partner against
the .other, to'olnain a settlement and payment, is an action of account render. In short, no case has been cited by the plaintiff's
counsel, to show that an action, like the present, can he maintained, unless the partners have settled their accolnt, and struck
the balance.
It is, then, of importance to the administration of justice, that
the ibrms of action, which originate in good sense, and public
convenience, should not be confounded; The defendant has a
right and an interest, to insist upon the preservation of the proper
form of action, to enforce his partnership contract against him, of
whith this Court possesses no power to deprive him. It is, indeed,
most convenient, that partnership accounts should be settled before auditors. It .would often be extremely difficult, sometimes
it would be impracticable, to settle them by a jury.
For these reasons, we think, that plaintiff cannot maintain the
present action.

Bender

