374

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THF,

1804. c. 13. Leach, 253. 1 Hawk. 306. B. 1. c. 40. s. 5. Leach, 71&
Bale, 191, 2. And, 3d. That according to the o'pivions of some
of the judges of the Supreme. Court, (3) the perjury charged,
was indictable at common law; and, in that case, the conclusion
of the iudictment, "against the form of the statute," was to be
regarded as surplusage. 2 Hawh. 83. United States v. Ravara,
2 Dull. Rep. 297. Willarn'. case, 2 Cranch. 82. in note. Unitea
•'tates v. Worrel. 2 Dall. Rep. 384.

t...-.J2

WASHINGTON, Yustice, delivered the charge of the Court at
large, upon the points of law; but cautiously abstaint d from
giving any opinion upon the facts. ie considered the repealing
act, as an absolute bar to the prosecution; and told the jury, expressly, that the defendant was, on that ground alone, independent of any question upon the merits, entitled to an acquittal.
On this charge, the july immediately found a verdict of not
guilty.

Willing et al. Plaintiffs in Error versus The United States.

E

RROR from the District Court of Pennsylvania. Upon the
record it appeared, that this was an action upon a hond,
dated the 16th of November 1802, given by Willings and Francis
and 7. Miller, in the penM sum of 15,442 dolZars, to secure the
payment of 7720 41 dollars, being the amount of one half of the
duties payable on the cargo of the ship .Mis-ouri,on the 16th of
1ifay 1803. The defendants pleaded, 1st. That the duties on the
dollars, on acgoodas in question amounted only to 14,0367
count of one half of which (7018 A6, dollars) the bond was given.
And, 2d. Payment. The plaintiff replied, 1st. That the ship was
an American registered vessel, owned by the defendants, when
she sailed from Philadelphiafor Canton, on the 1st of December
.1800; that after her departure she was in part sold to J7acob G.
Koch'and others, on the 12th of February 1801; that on making
the sale the ship.was not registered anew, nor was there any bill
of sale executed reciting her register; that the goods were imported into the port of Philadelphiasubsequent to the sale, on
the 16th of November 1802; that the amount of the duties was
15,44018 dollars, for one half of which, payable in six months,
the bond wds given. 2d. Non solverunt.
The defendants rejolned, That they admit the sale to Koch and
others, and the importation of the goods after such sale; but they
(3) The attorney of the district stated, that the last point was made, in deference to the opinion of th(. Court. on the question of a common law federal
jurisdiction, in criminal cases; and not as expressive of his own sentiments
tpon t.e subject..
aver,

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

37.

aver, that the ship was at sea at the time of the sal e, having her 1804.
register on board, and that it was not, therefore, in.the power
of the defendants to deliver it up at the time of the sale; that
on her arrival, the 15th of November, the defendants did execut., a !)ill of sale to Koch and others, reciting the register,
and the captain delivered up the register to the collector, whereupon the ship was registered anew, as the joint property of
the defendants and Koch and others; that, on the 7th of January 1803, Koch and others re-sold to the defendants, and executed a iill of sale reciting the register, last mentioned; and
that thereupon the ship was registered anew as the property of
the defendants, whereby she continued an American registered
vessel, not liable to foreign duties, and that the domestic duties
only amounted to 14,036w73 dollars, &c.

The plaintiffs ,ur-rejoined, That they admit the ship was at sea
when she was in part sold to Koch and others; but aver, that she
was not registered anew, nor was there a bill of sale, reciting the
register, at the time of the sale, nor at the time of her arrival. That
they, also, admit that the captain delivered to the collector, the
register of the ship at the time of his arrival; but they insist that
it was long afte'r she had been in part sold, without being registered anew, &c.;- that the registry of the ship, on the 22d of December 1802, in the name of Koch and others and the defendants,
was made after the re-sale by Koch and others to the defendants,
Nhen Koch and others had ceased to own any part; and that they
admit that Koch and others, having previously re-sold,'did, on
the 24th of Yanuary 1803, deliver up the register in their names,
and the ship was then registered anew, as the exclusive property
of the defendants. But they insist, thtt at the time of the actual
re-sale by Koch and others (15th .A'ovenzber 1801) she was not
registered anew, nor did they then execute a bill of sale reciting
the register; that the registry of the 24th of Yanuary 1803, was
made, under colour of a bill of sale executed by Koch and others
to the defendants, long after the re-sale, and they had ceased to
have any interest in the ship; and that at the time of the sale in
part to Koch and others, of the re-sale by the~m to the defendants,
of the arrival of the ship in the port of Philadelphia,and of her
entry, she had ceased to be deemed a ship of the United States.
The defendants demui-red, generally, to the sur-rejoinder; and
the plaintiffs joined in demurrer.
The general question, upon the demurrer; was, whether a
registered vessel of the United States, being sold, in part, to
resident citizens of the United States, while she was at sea,
without a bill of sale reciting the registen,- and without being
then registered anew, was liable, with her cargo, to the payment of foreign, or only to the payment of domestic, tonnige
and duties, on her return to a port of the United S"ates? And
the argument rested chiefly upon the terms and meaning of
the

S76
t

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1804. the 14th section of the registering act, which is in these words:
"And be itf'irtherenacted, That when any ship or vessel, which
11
" shall have been registered, pursuant to this act, or the act
"hereby, in part, repealed, shall, in whole, or in part, be sold,
"or transferred to a citizen or citizens of the United States, or
"shall be altered in form, or burthen, by being lengthened, or
"built upon, or from one denomination to another, by the mode
" or method of rigging or fitting, in every such case the said
ship or vessel shall be registered anew, by her former name,
"according to the directions herein before contained, (otherwise
" she shall cease to be deemed a ship or vessel of the United
" States) and her former certificate of registry shall be delivered
"up to the collector io whom application for such new registry
"cshall be made, at the time, that the same shall be made, to b
"1by him transmitted to the register of the treasury, who shall
" cause the same to be cancelled. And in every such case of
" sale or transfer, there shall be some instrument of writing, in
" the nature of a bill of sale, which shall recite, at length, the
cc said certificate, otherwise the said ship or vessel shall be inca,. pable of being so registered anew. And in every"case, in which
c a ship or vessel is hereby required to be rc gistered anew, if
" she shall not be so registered anew. she shall not be entitled to
'c any. of the privileges or benefits of a ship or vessel of the U,,ited
" States. And further, if her said former certificate of registry
shall not be delivered up, as aforesaid, except where the slime
" may have been destroyed; lost, or unintentionally mislaid, and
" an oath or affirmation thereof shall have been made, as afore"said, the owner or owners of such ship or vessel shall forfeit
"and pay the sum of five hundred dollars, to be recovered, with
, costs of suit."
In the District Court, judgment was rendered for the United

States. (1)
The
(1) Before the deciuion of the I)i$rict Court, on the principal question, a
preliminary point, of some importance, was determined. By the 65th section
~fthe impost law, (4 vol. 86, 7.) it is provided, that" where suit shall be
instituted on any bond for the recovery of duties due to the United States.
it shall be the duty of the Court, where the same shall be pending, to grant
"judgment at the return term, upon motion, unless the defendant shall, in
open Court, the United States' attorney being present, make oath, or affirmation, that an error has been committed in the liquidation of the duties
demanded upon such bond, specifying the errors alleged to have been com"mitted, and that the same have been notified in writing to the collector of
•the district, prior to the commencement ofthe return term aforesaid. Whereupon, if the Court be satisfied, that a continuance until the next succeeding
term, is necessary for the attainment ofjtstice, and not otherwise, a conti,nuance may be granted, until next succeeding term, and no konger."
In order to obtain a continuance of the cause, at the return term, the defendants filed the following affidavit: " Tiroas . Francis,one of tile above
"deilndants, being duly sworn, deposeth, that an error hUs been committed
"in the liquidation of the duties demanded en the above bond, for which this
*1suit

L IPCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

377

The cause was again argued in the Circuit Court, on the 6th 1804.
and 7th of May 1804, by Dallar (dIistrict attorney) for the Uni- L
ted States, -nd by Ra-v!e and Lezvi, for the plaintiffs in error.
For
suit is brought, inasnuich as the sum of seven thousand scren hundred, and
twenty dollars and forty-one cents is thereby demanded for daties on goods,
per tile
ship Aficsouri, uhercas the suim of seven thousand and eighteen
" dollars and seventy-three cents only %%as due fbr the same, the said ship.
the ,ni:e.!
the =fjsoufi, bein-1 a registered ship, be.ongiig to citizens ot"
" States, and not a foreigil, or unregistered ship, or liable to foameign duties
' And the said "'1T, oas 11. Franci further deposes, that theaibom e errors have
been notified iii writing to the collector of the district of Philade!phia,before
" the commencenent of this present term, being the return term to which the
above action was brought, and thtt this deponent did, in behalf of himself
and the othcr' obliors in the said bond, on the si,:teenth day of of"ay last,
tender to the cashier of the bank of the United States, where the said bond
was deposited for collection, the last-mentioned sum of money (seven thousand and eighteen dollars, and set enty-three cents) being as this deponent
"crily believes the whole amount thereon due: that the said cashier of the.
bank refusing to recei%e the same, this deponent, in behalf of the iforesaid,
tendered the same sum of money to the collector of' the district of Philadel.
•phia, on the seventeenth dqy of the same month, being as soon as he could
that the said bond had been returned from the bank of
ascertain by inquiry
d
" the United State to the collector. That the said collector also refused to
reccii e the same; that this deponent afterwards, to wit, on the 7th of .yu.
last, did pay to the attorney of the district of Pennsrlvaniathe s:lid sun of
7018 dollars, 7:3cents, say seven thousand and eighteen dollars and seventythree cents, on the terms and conditions exp.e:scd in a receipt whercofat
,1copy is hereunto annexed."
Dallas (the district attorney) insisted, that the cause assigned for a postponcmcnt of trial,
ill the afiidal-it, was not an error in the liquidation of'
the duties; for, the manifest policy and intent of the law, uere to enforce a
payment of the revenue, against "evey plea, or pretext, except a plain error
in fict ; and, here, no error in the calculation of figures, no accidental error
in the rate of duties, was assigned; but a delcnce was suggested, upon a
principle, which would equally apply to a charge of Jbrcign duties, made in
conseq1uence of any other &scription of forfetture, and disability, under the
acts of congress; though the secretary' of the treasury was vested with a special power ofremission and mitigation insuch cases.
After argument, however, (Roaw.e and Lewi being for the defendants) the
District Judge decided, that the cause assigned for a postponement, was within the terms and meaning. of the act of congress.
The opinion of the Court, on the principal question, was allerwards delivered in the fbllowing terms:
PETens, District Yudge. This is a suit commenced on a customn-house bond,
br one half the duties -duLto the Unite.lStatev, by the defendants Vilings and
-ranciton goods imported in the ship Missouri from Cantor. The bond is in
tie usual form, dated the 15th of Xaevember 1802; and was given with other
bonds for duties, as charged at the custom-house, amounting to 15,440 dollars 82 cents; being the sum chargeable on goods imported in a ship belongingf to a fbreigner. For the facts I refibr to the pleadings on file. The re. l
point in dispute is, " Whether the goods imported in the ship Missouri are
liable to foreign or domestic duties" There is no doubt, ald by the joinder
in demurrer it is allowed,'fhat the ship, when the goods wrere laden anti ever
bince, did.belong- to citizdns of the Mnited States. And if they had been the
same citizeni to whom the ship belonged at the time of her clearing out at the
.1mercan atistore-house, before her departure for Canton, only the domestic
duties could have been charged. These would have amounted to 14,036 dol.
!:r
a
C
Vol IV

378

180m4.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

For the United States. The general question is, whether the
of the ship Missouri was liable to the payment of foreign
duties, on the 15th of rovember 1802, when she returned to the
port

Scarg(

lars, 73 cents, causing a diflhrence in favour of the defendants, Ivillings ana
Francis, of 1404 dollars 9 cents. This. sum only is in dispute, at this time,
though, it is said, the defendants are :ffected bythe point in controversy, to a
considerable amount. But the difficulty is created by a transfer having been
made by WVilling: and Francihthe original owners to "Yacob Gerard Koch, and
others, also citizens of the Unhited States, of a part of the ship issouri while
at sea and on her voyage. No bill of sale recitins the register of the ship was
made till after her arrival at the port of2Philaddhia. A'parol sale was made,
which, though legal, bondm
fide, and effectual, as between the parties, was'not
so conformable to the law of the United States, as to entitle the vendees to have
their names inserted in a new register. Finally (after thb sale by parol before
mentioned and a resale to the original owners) a bill of sale was gien agreeably to law, and the vessel obtained a new register, though the duties remained as at first charged at the custom house. 2T. IV. Francis at the time of the
entry disclosed all the circumstances, and the whole proceedn1gs are honifide
and without fraud, or any improper intention. The amount having been liquidated at the custom house as for foreign duties, and the bond before mentioned, aming others, given for their amount, a suit was 6ommenced in this court
*therem. At the retun of the writ, the attorney of the district moved for
judgment agreeably to the act of congress. The defendants filed an affidavit
in legal form requesting, a trial or a continuance, because they alleged there
bad been an error in the. liquidation of the account at the custom house, owing
to foreign; instead of domestic, duties having been charged. On mature consideraton, and after diligent and careful examination into the technical meaning of the word "liquidation," as explained by the best authos'ities, both legal
and philological, I was of opinion that the Court was bound to comply with
the defendants request. The authority of the Court to give an opportunity for
legal investigation, is grounded on the true meaning of this word liquidation,
which comprehiends the principles, as well as arrangenent.7,of accounts.
The oause has been ably argued on both sides:- The whole controversy turns
on the 14th section of the act entitled "an act concernin.g the registering an'l
"recording of ships and vessels," passed the 31st of Decs'Wber 1792. A ver';
extensive range has been taken by the counsel on both sides of the question.
The principles, intent, and policy, of the act, have been investigated with
much ability and talent. I do not'hesitate to say, that to me this question, on
the words.of the sectionj is difficult, though one ofthe counsel fbr the defendants seems to consider the case as perfectly clear. I do not give an opinffion
upon it with confidence, though my duty requires it, and I must decide.
Were I -in a situation to say what'the law ought, in this case, to h ave been, Y.
should have a clear conviction and would, accordingh,, decide in favour of the
defendants. I should be warranted in this opinion by the law as it noew is. The
knQtty part of the 4uestion, is that affected by the tine when, in the 14th section. " IWhen any ship or vessel, which slall have been registered pursuant to
this act, or the act hereby, in part repealed, shall, in whole, or in part, be
shold or transfl-rred to a citizen or citizens of the United States, or shall be
"altered in form,' &c."On the part of the defendants it is insisted, that the word when means any
time after the arrival of the vessel, at the port where a new register can b e
legally obtained. And, according to Lord Coke's opinion, when one is bound
to do an act, but no time fixed, the party has his whole life time allou ed to perform it. Authoities were produced to show, that in the construction of ever.
penal statiltes, the spirit, and intent, and policy of the law might be called ift
aid, where words are doubtfid. That it is impossible to procure the new register, until the certificate of registry is delii-ered up. That this cannot be done
before her return fi'om her vbyage; and, until it is done, provided it be accomplished before her proceeding on another voyage, she ik still to be considered
as

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

port of Philadelphia. It will be attempted to maintain the affirma.
tive on two grounds: 1st. That she had not then a register in force.
2d. That she was not then entitled to be registered anew.
1st. The
as holding her original character; and, therefore, not subiect to the disabilities attached to a foreign ship. That if it were otherwise, the law would be oppressive on our own citizens, although its policy is grounded in a system to
serve them, while it prohibited foreign ships from trading, on terms so beneficial as those of our own nation. That if the word "vhe n" could not be satisfied, but by a new register, procured at the time of the sale, it would amount
to an unjust and burthensome exclusion of all sales to citizens, of our vessels,
in whole, or in part, while at sea, or on their voi ages; to the great injury of
our commerce, and ruinous embarrassment of our merchants, whose necessities, or plans, required transfers of their vessels, either to relie them from
pressures, or enable them to form new speculation3. That such a rigorous
construction might be justifiable, when ships in po t,were sold or transferred,
because the certificates of registry were attainable. But as the law does not
compel parties to impossibilities (exnon cogit ad imnpossibiiia it is otherwise when
ships are at sea. It satisfies the law, if the new register is applied for when
the temporary impracticahility is removed. True it is, that foreigners can never
obtain new registers, nder transfers, or sales fi'om American citizens. All
the precautionary measures ofthe law are aimed at them. The oath at the time
of entry must disclose the owners; or foreign character will be presumed.
This shows that if the oath is taken, and no foreign ownership appears, it i3
all the law requires, to establish the American character. But the character
of the vessel sold by one Am'crican citizen to another, was not even sustended,
by the clause under consideration, until after her departure, from the l:ort
whereat she could have obtained a new register, on her arrival from the voyage,
during which the sale or transfer was made. It is, therefore, concluded that domestic, and not foreign, duties should have been charged on the goods,imported
in the ship in question. And that as to the law ofthe Sd Mlrarch'180S, it neither
has or should have any influence on a precedent transaction. It only fixes the
time -when a new register must be applied for, which was before uncertain. It
also gives power to the secretary of the treasury to remit penalties and forfeitures and remove disabilities, in past as well as future cases.
On belalf of the U;ited States it was contended, that as no lime was fixed in
the law for renewing the register, it must be done instater. Where a disability
is the consequence, it cannot be removed till the renewal is completed. Ifit
cannot be done at the moment, owing to impediments not then t.o be o%ercome,
the party labouring under them must suffer temporary inconveniences, which
it was in his power to foresee. In England, where the charatcr of the ship is
not altered, an arrangement was made of sending information oftlhe transfer
immediately to the custom house. According to i3ritis4 authorities, though
they relate only to the validity of the transfer as between the parties, it is said
2 East, 404 that 11if the act of parliament (dictating this measuire) u ere to
be considered as giving an indefinite time (oi-c. eiie a reasonmable time,
"after
thle execution) for the compliance with its ieqttishcvs; it 110o.ld enable a transfer of property to be made to foreigners, ho might remain
concealed owners, until the return of the vessel to her port, which might not
be fir a great length of time." No time being fixed in the 14th section, it
must be instanter. A number of extracts from the laws of the United States
were produced to show, that all these laws required the strictest attention to
their injunctions, under the severest penalties and forfeitures. That it is not
denied that one citizen may sell and transfer to another a ship at sea. But if
it is done, the sale is subject to inconveniences on %hich the parties ought to
cioduhlte, or take the consequences. The law is or ought to be known to e%cry
body. Those who are shippers of goods should make themseh es masters of the
subject, both as it relates to sales to citizens and to foreigners, or suller any
inconveniences arising from wvant of caution. It Aas asserted, that tflu ;1,c:il
officers had umiformly construed the law asit is now contended for. The L0ongress

379
1804.

380

CASt-S RJLED AND ADJUDGED IN TIE

1st. The discussion does not turn upon the fact of American
1804.
k
ownership, but upon the kgal existence of an American register.
gress passing this law meant to exclude sales at sea, to prevent the use of our
vessels covertly by foreigners. .The register of the .Miesouri was vacated on
the 12th February 1801. She was from that time subject to the disabilities of
a foreign ship, till her character was revived. And that could not be done till
after the 21st December 1802, when the legal bill of sale was-made. No subsequent.transaction can by relation operate on the duties chwrgeahle, though the
character of the ship may be restored. If the foreign character of the vessel
existed at the time of the liquidation, no ex postfacto proceedings can alter the
then existing circumstances. There is no distinction in the law between a sale
in port, or one at iea. An immediate application for a newr register is required
in both cases. If it cannot be had on a sale at sea, it shows the law meant to
exclude the vessel for the time fi-om her Ame~ican character: eo instanter, that
the property is changed, her character 6eases, or is suspended, acordihg as
she is sold to a foreigner, or a citizen. A-number of British cases were producel; and said to be analogous, though in that country they related to change
ofproperty. In this the principles apply td change of character. 3 Term. Rep.
406. 3 Brovn Ch. Rep. 571. 5 7Trm, 710. 2.East, 399. 404. Bosan tet and Put.
ier. Parker, 215. There isno distinction in the laws of the U.nited States, as they
relate to a sale either to a citizen dr a foreigner, in the point of time, in which
the AmeiCa, character ceases to operate. -In both cases, ilt cessation is at the
moment of'sale. The citizen may revive it, but the foreigner never can.
The law of.Afarch 1803, was produced to show a legislative construction. And
ti-li custom of tle fiscal offices was said to he a contempor-neous and continued
interpretation. Although I may not have done istice to the arguments of the
counsel on either side,*I have'thought it proper to recite them in a summary
wav,.to show the conflict ofopinion, on the subject.
For myself I declare, that, although the intei pretation given on the parl of
the United States, is not consistent with nfy ideas of what the law should have
been, I do not see that I am authorised judicially to pronounce that it was not,
as on the pirt ofthe UVite4 States it is contejided to have been, at the time of
the transaction, which is the subject of discussion. It appears to me, that the
congress, enacting the law of 1792, in their zeal to e-xclude foreigners, did not
see, or chose to think lightly of, the inconveniences to which, in such ctses,
as the one now before me, they subjected oiqr owncitizens. It also seems to me
a case omitted, either accidentally, or with design. The legislature lone were
competent to remedy thedefect. And they have done this in cases occurring
After their act of March 1803. In the department in which I am placed, I am
'ot competent to g"ve relief; or by interpretations of supposed spirit and inten.
lion, supply omissions, or add to the provisions of the then existing law. In cases
attended with such unmerited penalties, it is consolatory thai the laws of our
c-ountry have not left the parties without protection. The congress of .1803,
sensible ofthe hardships consequent on a rigid construction of the former law,
have specially and clearly authorised the secretary of the treasury to remit
;9 ary foreign duties; which shall have been incurred," by reason of disabilities,
happening under he former laws, recited- in the act of March. 1803. There is
no doubtiso my mind,.that this (the foreign duties having been incn-red under
the former la,s, by a temporary disability andincapeity to obtain a new register) is a case proper for thd deliberation of the officer vested with the
power df mitigating or dispensing with the'secrity of fiscal lavns. He may (if
le so inclines under the.circumstances stated to lim) give the relief, which
the austerity ofjudiciary duty disables a court ffo'm affording. Although this
is my view of the subject I think it a hard case, and that it ought not to rest
tn my opinion. I shall deem myself bound to give evei. f'acility to an appeal.
If other cases, depending on the same point, occur, I shall, on payment ofthe
undisputed part of the demand, suspend judgment (or grant it on terms) for
the contested susns, until the opinion of a superior court can be had; ifthe
parties affected shall choose to take that course
. Let judgment be enterecl for the sum now due to the UnitedStates. I under.
stand that the domestc duties in part ofthe bond have been paid.

The

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

2-S8

The object of the law was to secure to American citizens, the 1804.
exclusive benefit of American tonnage and navigation. The means L_.--employed were directed, to ascertain, first, the fact that the vessel was American built; and, secondly, to trace every change of
ownership, in whole, or in part. And the means being suited to
the object, all theories, all arguments ab inconvenienti, mustyield
to the positive terms of the law, in this instancc, as in numerous
other instances of forfeiture under'the navigation and revenue
laws. In order to ascertain the changes, or transfers, of property
considerations respecting the trabsfer to an alien, whether the
vessel was in port, or at sea, on the one hand; and, on the other
hand, respecting the transfer to a citizen, whether the v eskel was
in port, or at sea, naturally occurred. Now, no American vesgel,
wherever she may be, if sold to an alien, can be registered anew.
In England a bill of sale to an alien is void, without the consent
of three-fourths of the owners, indorsed upon the certificate. In
.America there is no such provision; but still, upon a clandestine
sale of a part owner, the innocent owners are protected to the
amount of their interest in the vessel. 4 vol. Acts Cong. 11.
Abbot, 45. 13 G. 37.c. 26. 2 vol. Acts Cong. p. 131. s. 16, 17. 7.
Ab. 30. -6 G. 3. c. 60. s. 15. Again: An American vessel, if
sold even to a citizen, must, upon every sale, in whole, or in part,
be registered anew; the. old register must be surrendered;, the
bill of sale muit be in writing,' containing a recital of the register; and on every entry, at a port of the United States, the
inesne transfers must be disclosed. 2 vol. p. 131. s. 14. 17. In
England a distinct provision is made for cases, in which vessel.;
are sold, when in port; and for cases, in which they are sold.
while at sea. For the former, it is required, that an indorsement.
shall be made on the register; or that the vessel be registered
anew, at the option of the remaining owners, without which the
sale is void. 7 & 8 W. 3. c. 22. s. 21. 34Geo. 3. c. 68.s. 15.21.
And for the.latter, it is required, in order to render the sale valid,
that the bill of sale shall recite the register; that a copy of the bill
of sale be dehivered to the commissioners; tat notice of the
transfer be given at the ship's port; and that the indorsement be
made on the register, when the ship returns. Jbid. But in America, the only provision in the case of a sale of a vessel at sea is
contained in the 14th section of the law: 2 vol. p. 131. while the
sale of a vessel if3 port is anxiously guarded as well by that section.
as by the 14th, i 1th, and 12th sections. The registering bond does
not embrace the cate Qi a sale while the vessel is at sea; the 17th
section only requires a disclosure of the fact, without declaring
any consequence; and, in short, it is only in the 14th section,
that any Provision is made for a formal bill of sale, for a surrender of the old register, or for the taking out of a new one. And
yet, the policy which prescribes such guards against unlawful
transfers, while a vessel is in port. operates more forcibly in the
casts

38"2'

CASEs

RULED AND ADJLYDGED IN THE

1804. cases of a transfer, while a vessel is at sea. The legislative jeaSlousy of sales abroad, is m,inifested, indeed, by the provision,
which disqualifies citizens, resident in foreign countries (with a
few exceptions) from being holders of American registered vessels. 2 vol. 132. s. 2. 134. s.4. Then, if the policy of the law is
general, so are the words of the 14th section of the act, embracing every sale of a vessel, in whole, or in part, at home, or
abroad; and, to preserve the American privileges of the vessel,
the requisites of the section are, 'a new register on the sale, a surrender of the old register, and a bill of sale, reciting the register.
On the sale of the Zissouri, to Koch and his associates, her old
register ceased to be in force. A new one might be obtained,
provided, at the time of applying for it, the old one was surrendered, and a bill of sale, in due form, was produced: but, after
vacating the old register by a sale, the ship ceased to be privileged, until a new register was obtained. A formal bill of sale
is a sine qua non, in every case; and, emphatically, it is necessary in the case of a sale, while a vessel is at sea, as the act of
congress provideq no other guard against an unlawful transfer.
Besides, why should the 17th section merely require, upon the
entry of a vessel from abroad, a disclosure of the fact, whether
there has been any antecedent change of ownership, if it was not
to bring the case within the provisions of the 14th section of the
act? And if a vessel sold at home, is subject to the rigor of all
the regulations of the 14th section,- on. what principle can a vessel
:*old abroad pretend to an exemption? Is it not more within the
policy; spirit, and language, of ihe law, to say, that the vessel
sold abroad, shall, like the vessel sold at home, lose her privilege
upon the sale; and as the danger of unlawful sales is greater
abroad, than at home, she shall remain unprivileged, until the actual ienewal of her register? In illustration of the argument on
3 T. Rep. 406.
this point, the following authorities were cited: -.
3 Br. Ch. 571. S. C. 5 T. Rep. 710. 7 T. Rep. 306. 2 East,
399. 1 Bos. & Pull. 483.
2d. Nor was the 111"issouri even entitled to be registered anew,
at the time of her return to the port of Philadelphia. There did
not than exist a bill of sale, reciting the register; and the recital
might as easily be made from the record at the custom-house,
as, from the certificate of registry carried with the vessel.
The construction now contended for, has uniformly prevailed in
the treasury department; and contemporaneous construction ought
to be regarded in. deciding upon a doubtful law. Park, 915.
Legislative construction is, also, in favour of the United States,
'or,the very case of a vessel sold while at sea, has been specially
introduced into the system; 6 vol. "223. s.3. the. power to remit
the foreign duties incurred by such sale has been vested in the
secretary of the treasury iand legislative construction, of a legislative act, where the words are doubtful, ought to be conclusiva
Parher, 217.

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

383

For Wiflnrs and Francis. In the present case, there is no 1804.
"ugges~ion oi alien ownership, or inala fides of any kind. The
meaning of the legislature should, therefbre, be perfectly clear,
before a decision inflicting, in effect, a heavy penalty, on the
plaintiffs in error, is pronounced. The general policy of the law
isi to give an advantage to the American citizen; and, if its language is at all obscure, he is entitled to the most beneficial interpretation. In this view of the controversy, the recapitulation 'of
a few plain rules, will lead to a favourable result. 1st. A vessel
can have but one register at the same time. 2d. The certificate of
the registry is delivered to the master of the vessel, when he
leaves the port, and must be deposited at the custom-house uponhis
return. 3d. The register remains in force, until it has been legally
vacated, or cancelled. 4th. On a change of property, whether in
whole, or in part, a new register must be taken out; but no new
register can be granted until the old one is surrendered. 5th..The
execution of a bill of sale, reciting the register, will not authorise
the granting of a new register, without such surrender of the old
one; but both must concur for that purpose.
In no part of the law is a particular time prescribed, either for
the execution of a bill of sale, or for the application for a new;
register. The 14th section amounts to nothing more, than a declaration, that a vessel, which has been sold, in whole, or in part,
shall not enjoy the American privileges, until she is registered
anew; but the word " when" is not used as an adverb of time;
nor does the section require, that the vessel shall be registered
anew, at the moment of the transfer. If, therefore, the bill of
sale is executed, and the old register surrendered, when an application is first made for the enjoyment of American privileges,
the words and policy of the law are satisfied; nor will the court
go beyond the words of a law to create a forfeiture. 1 Bos. and
Pull.483. 19 in. Abr. 512. p1. 8, 9. 3 T. Rep. 401. 2 ,ast,
.399. The 17th section of the act, however, seems to fix the sense
of the legislature; for, it obviously contemplates the disclosure of
a transfer, while the vessel was at sea; and if the oath, which it
prescribes, is truly taken, there is no forfeiture of her American
character.
The doctrine contended for, on behalf of the United States,
would introduce the greatest mischiefs. CouL congress mean,
(in an act, too, for the benefit of American tonnage and navigation) so to tie up the property in ships, that, while they are at
sea, they could not b'e sold, without incurring a forfeiture of their
privileges? And is it consistent with justice and reason, that the
innocent shippers of a cargo on board an Americwn vessel,
should be taxed with the payment of foreign duties, in consequence of successive transfers, to which they were neither parties,
nor privies? To these inconveniences, the claim of foreign dutie.,
in this case, adds the reproach, that congress has required
.an

384

CAsES R1JLED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1804. an impossibility; to wit, the immediate surrender of the register
L
at the custom~house,.while, in fact, it was on board of the vessel
at sea.
As to a contehaporary construction, it is not clearly and uniformly shown, in favour of the adverse doctrine; nor, if it were,
could it prevail against the plain words and obvious meaning of
the law. And, as to a supposed legislative construction, of the act
of the 2d of Aarch 1803 (6 vol. 223. s. 3. s. 4.) the act is merely
affirmative. and even if it were declaratory of the legislative
opinion, upon the previous state of the law, it could not be binding upon the judges, who must exercise their own judgments
upon the law itself, independent of legislative exposifion.
XVAS I.nGrON,
iztcce.
Although the pleadings, in this case,
are lengthy, it has been agreed by both parties, that the oly
!Iuestion, to be considered and decided, upon the whole record.
is, whether the cargo, imprted in the ship Alissouri, is subject
to the payment offoreign, or of domestiC, duties?
By the.first section of the" "act concerning the registering and
recording of ships, or vessels," passed on the 31st of JDecember
1792. it was providedi that all vessels, registered pursuant to
that law, should be denominated and deemed vessels of the United States: and all vessels of the United States, are entitled, by
law, to certain benefits and privileges, denied to foreign vessels;
so long as they shall continue to -be wholly owned, and to be
commanded, by a citizen, or citizens, of the United States
The ship Malissouri was a duly registered vessel of the United
States, and has always' continued to be owned, and commanded,
by citizens. She was, therefore, entitled to the benefits and privileges of her Aimerican character, when she arrived at the port
of Philadelphia, in November 1802; unless the partial sale made
to Amcrican citizens, while she was at sea, deprived her of that
character. . Whether the transaction referred to, produced such
an effect, may, I think, be decided upon a joint consideration of
the fourteenth, and first sections, of the registering act alone;
though other sections will afford fair ground for reasoning and
illustration.
i
Tihe 1-4thsection is composed of several sentences, which
must be distinctly, as well as collectively, considered, to ascertain the general meaning and result. The first sentence declares,
that when a -registered vessel is- sold to a citizen, she shall be registered anew, by her former name, or she shall cease to be
deemed a vessel of the United States; and that her former re.
gister shall be delivered up, at the time of applying for a new
one. The second sentence declares, that in every such case of
sale, or transfer, there shall be a bill of sale, reciting, at length,
the certificate of registry, otherwise the vessel shall be incapable
.)f being registered anew. And the third sentence declares, generally.

3S

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

nerally, that in every case, in which a vessel is required to be 1804.
registered anew, she shall not be intitled to the privileges of a
vessel of the United States, if she is not so registered.
It is difficult to conjecture, why, in the first sentence, the want
of a new register should be declared, within a parenthesis, to deprive a vessel of her American character; and. that, in the third
sentence, the same effect should be again declared, for the same
cause. The latter declaration, however, is obviously tautology: for,
if the former declaration can be said to have destroyed the privilege, eoinstanti,when the sale was effected; it was useless and
superfluous to repeat, that the vessel should not, at any subsequent period, be entitled to enjoy it. The clear meaning, however, of both sentences, appears to be, that the vessel should lose
her American privileges, not simply upon the sale, but upon the
neglect to obtain a new registry, after the sale. It is here, then,
material to inquire, in what manner, and on what terms, a new
registry can be obtained? A bill of sale, reciting the old certificate of registry, must be produced to the collector. 'The 61d certificate of registry must, also, be surrendered. Now, thouigh a
bill of sale might be formally executed, in the absence of the
ship; yet, the ship is bound, by law, ta carry the certificate of
her registry with her; and, consequently, it is impossible for her
owner, to surrender that instrument to the collector while she is
herself at sea. If, however, the surrender of the certificate must
be made, or the privilege must be lost, it is manifest, that the law
either requires the performance of an impossibility (which is not
hastily to be imputed to the expression, and never to the intention of a law) er it prohibits, in effect, the sale of a ship, at sea,
by one of our citizens, to another.
There is no part of our navigation system, that expressly
avows this to be the intentioh of the legislature; and from what
principle of public policy can it be inferred, or presumed? The
cargo is not liable to the claim of foreign duties, until an actual
sale of the ship; and why should the owner of the cargo lose his
privilege, on account of the sale, which is an act of the owner of
the ship alone? Or be punished as for a fault, on account of the
neglect of the owner of the ship, to take out a new register; an
omission which the owner of the cargo can neither prevent,
nor supply? Even, however, with respect to the ship, why, I repeat, should the privilege be lost, and her owner punished as for
a fault, in omitting to deliver an instrument to the collector on
shore, which the law directs to be kept on board her at sea? A
consequence more injurious, would not proceed from a sale to
an alien, and yet, in the case of a sale to an alien, the act of
congress declares the forfeiture of the American privilege in express words; as being incurred, eo instanti,*on the sale; but no
such declaration is made, in the case of a sale to a citizen.
VOL. IV.

3 D

It

;86
1804.

CAsgr RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

It appears to me, that the fourth sentence of the 14th sectiort
of the act is, also, important; for, it declareE, that " if the former
" certificate of registry shall not be delivered up as- foresaid, the
" owner, or owners of the ship, or vessel, shal f'orfeir and pay
" the sum of 500 dollars:" And hus, if the acnstruction contended for, by the attorney of the UnitedStatesis t orrect, the law not
only prohibits the sale of a vessel at sea, by one citizen to another
on pain of forfeiting, at the moment of sale, the privileges of the
vessel; but subjects the owner to a penalty, although it is physically impossible, that he should do the thing, for the omission of
whickh he is to be punished.
But an American vessel does not cease to be entitled to her
privilege, any more by the act of sale, than by the act of altering
her form, or burthen; both cases being embraced by the provisions of the 14th section. Let us suppose, therefbre, that the
construction of the vessel should be altered, either in the port
to which she belongs, or in any other port: would she lose her
privilege, before the owners could have an opportunity to apply
for a new registry? And if not, why should the privilege be lost,
before an opportunity occurs to make the application for a new
registry, in the case of a sale? I can perceive no reason for a
distinction. '
As to the provisions of the 17th section, they are designed to
compel a discovery of any transfers of a vessel, which may have
been made, during her absence from the port; in order that it
might appear, whether she continued to be a privileged vessel of
the United States. If it appeared, that she had been transferred
to a foreigner, her privileges were forfeited, fiom the moment of
transfer; and if it appeared that she had been sold to a citizen,
the officers of the customs were enabled, by a knowledge of the
fact, to exact the foreign duties, in future, -should no application
be made for a new registry.
I am, upon the whole, of opinion, that the appellants are not
liable for highcr duties, than are payable by vessels of the United
States; and, consequently, the judgment of the District Court
must be reversed.
Judgment reversed. (1)
(1) On this dccision a writ of error was brought, which is now depending in
tjte,Supreme Court of the United State.e

