330

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1797.

Maxfield's Lessee ersus Levy (1).
The Same versus The Same.

T

HE opinion of the Court was delivered in this case, in the
following terms;

.IREDtLL, fustice. A motion was made for a 'rule to show
cause, why these ejectments should not be dismissed, upon an
allegation that it appeared, by an answer to a bill in equity, for a
discovery in this court, brought by the defendants in these eject.
ments, against the fessor of the plaintiff, that they are-in reality
the suits of a citizen of this state (viz. Samuel Wallis) though
u.nder the name of a citizen of another state, to whom it is alleged, conveyances were made without any consideration, for
the sole purpose of making him a nominal lessor of the plaintiff
in these ejectments.
*A rule to show cause was granted, and, upon the day appointed,
the case was fully heard and argued on both sides, the proceedjngson equity on the bill for a discovery having been exhibited
to the Court and read.
The importance of the present question is evident, because it
•concerns the constitution and laws 'of the United States, in a
point highly esstntial to their welfare, to wit, the proper boun.
daries between the authority of a single state, and that of the
United Stales.
This, not only the constitution itself has been anxious to ascertain"by precise and particular definitions, but the .congress, in
carrying into effect that part of the constitution which concerns
the judiciary, has been solicitous to preserve with the greatest
c ution. The strong instance of this is a provision in the judicial act, to the following effect:
"cThat no district or circuit Court shall have cognizance of any
"suit to recover the contents of any promissory 'note, or other
cchose in action, in favour of an assignee, unless a suit might
"have been prosecuted in such Court to recover the said con.
" tents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases* of
" foreign bills of exchange." Sect. 11. 1 vol. p. 55.
This I adduce as a strong instance to show the solicitude of
congress on this subject, for the regulation extends to a bonelijde
assignim'ent in the instancz specified, as well as to one nzalaf'de:
but 'the provision goes to all, more effectually to prevent any
practices of deception by means of the latter.
(1) An outline of this cause was given in 2 Dall.Rep. 381. but I comply
with the subsequent request of the presiding Judge, (whose death was greatly lameuted by the bencb and the bar) in publishing the opinion of the Court

a large.

Nothing

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

331

Nothing is more evident than that if this be a controversv be- 1797.
tween citizens of different states, it is a controversy determinable
in this Court, and of which, therefore, the Court must sustain
jurisdiction.
*On the other hand, if it be not a controversy between citizens
of different states, but between citizens of the same state, it not
being one of those cases which entitle citizens of the same state
to any exercise of jurisdiction by this Court, it ought not to be
determined here.
But if it shall appear, from a consideration of the facts, that
this is not a case which the lessor of tie plaintiff was entitled to
bring into this Court, it will still remain to be inquired, whether
the remedy pursued on the present occasion is proper.
The first question, therefore, is, Whether it sufficiently appears
to the Court, that this is a controversy subsisting between citizens
of the same state, and not between citizens of different states, so
as to authorise a dismission of the suit, in case the remedy be in
point of law a proper one?
The evidence, upon which the charge is alleged,. is an answer
to a bill filed in the equity side of this Court by the defendants
in the ejectments, in order to obtain a discovery by the oath of
the lessor of the plaintiff.
This is admitted to be competent evidence on a question at
law, and therefore (supposing the method of proceeding in other
respects proper) I am only to consider, if it affords satisfactory'
evidence of the facts suggested:
The facts admitted by the answer, in substance, are these:
That there were certain applications to the' laid-office of this
state for 64 tracts of land, in the county of Luzerne, containing
27,400 acres: That the applications were made Cas the responddent has been informed and believes) by and for the use of
Samuel Wallis of the county of NorthumbeHand in this state:
That in April 1784, conveyances were executed to Ala.x-qie the
present lessor of the plaintiff, by which the legal title to the lands
therein described was conveyed and assigned to Maxfield, as lie
apprehends and believes. That Jla.ie paid no consideration,
either pecuniary, or of any other nature, for the lands, and, therefore, he apprehends and believes, that the equitable title is in
Samuel Walis. That .Iaaxfeld consented to stmid the trustee of
the: lands, for the use and benefit of IVallis, and left the management, direction, and prosecution, of the business to Vallis,
by whose direction lllaAfTeld apprehends and believes, that the
caveats mentioned in the complainant's bill were filed, and all
subsequent proceedings had.
In comparing the facts thus admitted, with the bill he was
called upon to answer, it is very remarkable, that the last interrogatory was expressed in such particular and pointed terms,
that if it had been directly and positively answered, it would have
been

332-

CASEd RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1197. been decisive one way or the other. But it is not so answered,
and his own counsel now object, that he did not-answer directly
L
to the question, and, therefore, the only remedy was to except to
the answer for insufficiency, .and compel a better answer.

This objection, I think, may be easily obviated by the followin.g considerations.
Ist. If the question had been an improper one, it might have
been demurred to. By that not being done, it is confessed that
the question was proper, and of course it ought to have been an.
swered. And it is little short of an insult on the Court Dow to
tell it', that the lessor of the plaintiff purposely declined answering a question fairly put to him, which he might and ought to
have answered, but by his not doing it he now sets the Court at
defiance.
2d. If for want of a fuller answer, no evidence was before the
Court, the objection might possibly be of weight. But all the
other facts admitted by the answer, are open to all proper in"ferences, as well such as arise from this wilful and insolent omission, as from any other part of the case. The object was to effect
a discovery, whether certain conveyances were actually given for
the sole purpose of evading the constitutional limits', as to jurisdiction, prescribed to this Court. Such a design c6uld be expected
only to be disclosed by direct confession, or a number of concurring circumstances.

3d. It does not appear that he will ever give a better answer.
He may chuse to go through all the processes of contempt for
not answering sufficiently, as he appears -alreadyto have done for
not answering at all. He may even submit to perpetual imprison.
mcnt. Is the case never to be decided, until he thinks fit to consent it shall be?
4th. The jurisdiciion of this Court is not primafacie general,
but special. A man must assign a good reason for coming here.
If the fact is denied, upon which he grounds his right to come
here,, he pust prove it. He, therefore, is the actor in the proof;
and, consequently, he-has no right, where the point is contested,
to throw the onus probandion the defendant. As this undoubtedly
is the general principle, I see no reason to depart from it on thp
present occasion, when the knowledge of all the circtimstancesof
the case is fully possessed by the lessor of the plaintiff, and he is
regularly called upon to disclose them.
or these reasons, I am clearly of opinion, that Mtfaxftld's
forbearing to give a fuller answer, is no reason for my not we h.
ing the amount of the answ.er, which he has thought proper to
give; 'and considering whether it sufficiently establishes the allegations of the defendants in these causes.
But it is objected, that Maxfield's answer, though evidence
against him, is no evidence against Wallis, who is said to be the
cetui que trust, and Maxfeld a bare trustee.
Answer

CiRiUt
u ° COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

33

Answer. Upon the face of these ejectments Walliv's name no 1797.
where appears. Maxfield, therefore, is the only person to be con- %
sidered here. If a cestui que trust has a right to support an
ejectment, but is forced, upon legal principles, to use the name of
his trustee, he must take the consequences. This Court, as a
Court of law, cannot punish the trustee for a breach'of trust,
though in another capacity it may. But if it had been material
to have made Vallis a party, a great, if not an insuperable, difficulty has been alleged in doing it. Wallis and the defendants be!ngcitizens of the same state, it is very doubtful whether a bill
in equity would have lain against Walli. in this Court, though it
was merely incidental to the suit at law. But, it is clear, that the
objection in this case is merely frivolous, because upon the return
of the rule to show cause, an ex parte affidavit might be produced.
W~allis's affidavit undoubtedly might have been, as well as any
others. Why has it not been? No reason has been assigned to
show it could not be done, or that he desired, or that his counsel
wished, he should do it. Nor has time been solicited for his putting in such an affidavit, though it is so seriously allegedthat it was
highly important to him to have had an opportunity of answering
this charge.
It is alleged, that Mfaxfeld was a trustee, and as such authorised to come into this Court.
A trustee fof what purpose? There is not the least shadow of
evidence, that he was a trustee for any other purpose, than that
Vallis should have a colour for suing in this Court, in his name,
The deed is not even stated to have been delivered. No fair
object of the trust is specified. Wallis lived in Pennsylvania;
the land lies in Pennsylvania:Zliaxfteld lived in Delazbare. What
was he to do? It appears, from his own acknowledgment, that
he has done nothing hitherto, nor does he state he was to do any
thing.
But, it is said, a man is not obliged to specify any object of a
trust. He may create a trust from mere whim.
Admitted. But the law cannot, without absurdity, permit a
man to create a trust, for the purpose of defeating a solemn provision of its own. Nothing cpuld be more ridiculous than such
a principle. When the constitution has guarded, with the utmost
solicitude, against the exercise of a particular authority, so as
that, under certain circumstances, one man shall not sue another
in a Court created under it, can such a Court for a moment support a doctrine, that it shall be in the power of such a man, by
any contrivance expressly calculated to defeat this object, to render it wholly nugatory? This, irideed, would be to render the
laws of our country a farce; to make the constitution a mere
shadow; and deservedly to draw upon those entrusted with -its
execution, an odium which has been industriously, but, I hope.
will ever be in vain attempted.

3011

CASEs RULED AND ADjUDG]fD IN TIU

1197.

But it is said, the system of fictions is not new; and an attempt
been gravely made to induce this Court, by flattering expressions, to add to the list of fictions in being, one of its own, in
the face of the constitution we are sworn to support, and by every
other sacred tie bound to maintain inviolate.
It is true, the Courts- of law in England have countenanced
and supported some fictions. Such (for instance) as a fine and
recoverv,'and an ejectment; and, still more exceptionably, fictions to give a jurisdiction, which otherwise could not be maintained. It is sufficient to say of all these, that they originally took
place, when very dark notions of law and liberty were entertained; that they are supported now solely on the authority of long
usage; and that no Court would now dare to set up a new one.
No Court in America ever vet thought, nor, I hope, ever will, of
acquiring jurisdiction by a fiction. And the only fiction ever in
general use in America (perhaps with a few exceptions as to fines
and recoveries) I believe, has been that of proceeding by ejectment, which is a mere form of action, and so modified as to'do
no possible injury. It cannot substantially affect any man's right
whatever.
In order to encourage the Court to countenance this scheme,
it is said that no injury can arise from this practice, because the
decision in this Court will be on the same principles, and, it is to
be presumed, with an equal regard to justice, in this Court, as in
a state Court.
If a serious answer to such an observation is required, it is
.urelv evident, that we are not to assume a voluntary jurisdiction, because, we think, or any others may think, it may be exercised innocently, or even wisely. The Court is not to fix the
hounds of its own jurisdiction, according to its own discretion.
A jurisdiction assumed without authority, would be equally an
usurpation, whether exercised wisely, or unwisely. But the fact
assumed cannot be admitted to be true. If this Court exercise a
iurisdiction in such a case, it may do so after all avenues to a
state jurisdiction are for ever closed. That is alleged to be the
fact in the present instance. There are, also, other differences,
such as regard the place of trial, the venue of the jurors, and
other circumstances omitted to be mentioned, because this part
of"the case is too plain to require any formal discussion.
On this occasion, it may be material to consider whether, on
the facts now apparent to the Court, MAaxfield has any title, either
in equity, or at law; because, if he has not, it is evident, the title
to be contested must be Wallis', and not his; and, of course the
subject matter to be decided, is- a title in question between two
citizens of the same state.
Ist. As to equity.
He has none by his own acknox,(edgment. He paid no conideration. *He is to perform no duty. He only permits his name

ihas

to

.CIRCUIT :OURT, P NNSYLVANIA ' ISTRICT.

335

to be used, for the support of a fraud on the jurisdiction of the 1797.
Court; a purpose which a Court of equity would reject with the
highest disdain.
2d. As little, in rty opinion, can he support any title at law.
Ist. Consider this as a mere birgain and sale. A bargain and
sale is of no validity, where no money has been paid. Nothing
gives a legal title under the act of . 8. (concerning uses) which
was not an equitable one before that statute. At that time no
bargainee could have compelled a bargainor to convey, who had
received no money. Therefore, since the statute, no use can
arise on such a deed, without some money to support it.
2d. Allowing the highest efficacy to this deed under the act
of assembly. This can only mean, that what a man can lawfully
grant by any form of conveyance, shall be sufficiently granted in
this form. Of course, if under any other form of conveyance,
owing to technical difficulties, such a purpose could succeed without redress, a deed, professedly a bargain and sale, is not to have
its influence extended, merely that an illegal purpose should take
effect, under colour of form. The intent of the act certainly wds,
that the want of form should not defeat the intention of an honest,
but unskilful conveyance; but surely not to smooth the path of
injustice, by converting a rightful estate into a wrongful one.
3d. But admitting it to be any form of conveyance you please,
then I say, that a Court of law will not, any more than a Court of
equity, support a deed formally good, but substantiallyfraudulent.
And whether the fraud be of a moral nature, for the purpose of
doing a wilful injustice, or the act be, as the lawyers term it, ;n
firaudem legis (that is, to evade some law) the law will equally
interpose, to prevent its own principles from beihg made mere
instruments, to defeat its own purposes.
There is no act in law, within my recollection, which fraud
will not vitiate.
It will vitiate a feoffment, which. is a very strict conveyance,
requiring no consideration, and passes by an actual livery.
It will vitiate a fine, though a solemn transaction in a C.ourt of
justice, and peculiarly favoured.
It will even deprive a party.of the benefit of a judgment deliberatqly given.
Conveyances to defeat creditors (however formally agreeable
to law) are held absolutely void,-at least as against them.
So, also, in the common case of usury, for which so many
contrivances have been devised. No contrivance, no colour, no"
form whatever, can protect any transaction, which really appears
to have been usurious, from being declared so.
The application of these principles is obvious.
If (as I observed before) the deed in question is to be considered as a mere bargain and sa!i, , is abso utely void for want
of a legal consideration (which must be money alone) to support
it.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED 7N THE

1797. it. If it is to be considered as any other kind of conveyance, it.
Raving no consideration whatever but an illegal one (that of defeating the constitution and laws of the United States in a most
essential point) it is at least void as to that purpose, and, therefore, does not authorise Max0eld to come into this Court.
I, therefore, conclude without difficulty, that Maxfeld has
neither a legal, nor an equitable, title to authoris6 him to come
into this Court.
The only remaining consideration is, as to the remedy, which,
from the first, was the only difficulty'I found.
I wiil venture to lay it down as an unquestionable principle,
,that no grievance can arise in the law, but some remedy may be
applied to it. The present grievance, therefore (which, if unredressed, will, in any case like the present, enable two persons, at
their pleasure, to do injustice to a third, and force this Court to
exercise a jurisdiction never delegated to it) must admit of some
remedy.
Only three have been suggested, in the present stage of the
proceeding.
ist. The method now under consideration.
24. A plea to the jurisdiction.
3d. An injunction in equity.
I will consider the two last first; for, if they are removed out
of the way (as I think they must be) it will facilitate our consideration of the first.
As to a plea to the jurisdiction. This can be of no avail, unless not only the fact, at the proper time of pleading, be known
to the defendant, but that he has disinterested proof of it. This,
in a thousand instances, would be impossible; and in no instance
can be expected. To insist' on this, therefore, as the only me.
thod, would lei,e the onstitutlon, and the law, in almost every
instance, open to certain evasion. It consequently cannot be ad.
nitted, that this is the only method of redress.
With regard to a bill in equity. I will not say, equity ought
not to interpose a remedy in any case. But it seems most proper, that a Court of law should support its own jurisdiction, on
its own principles, and, if proof can be obtained, I conceive it is
necessarily incident to every Court to take care, that its jurisdiction be not encroached upon, or in other words, that the Court
be not made either voluntarily, or involuntarily (if it can prevent
it) an usurper of jurisdiction not belonging to it. In this case,
the aid of equity may be useful (as it has been on the present
occasion) in compelling a discovery; but there, I think, its interference ought to stop, unless the power of the law Court over
the action has entirely ceased; as for instance, after a judgment, in which case (but in: which, perha s, alone) equity might
properly grant an injunction, to prevent a party availing himself
")f his own fraud.
Th*
S

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

33

The only remaining remedy suggested (or whicb occurs to 1797.
me) in the present stage of the proceeding, is that now under
consideration; and, of course, this must be adopted, if an interference by the Court in the present stage of the cause is proper.
It is, however, objected, that the Court ought not t6 interiere
at present, but permit the case to go before the jury, who may'
find for the defendants, if they believe the facts suggested, and
apply the law accordingly.
If this case had, indeed, gone before.the jury, I shotild have
had no difficulty in telling them, that admitting the truth of the
facts as stated, the lessor of the plaintiff had, in mv opinion, no
title; and, if the jury had found accordingly, redress (though
late) could be obtained.
But, at present, I do not think myself at liberty to submit the
case to the jury, for the following reasons.
Ist. The Court is the proper guardian of its own jurisdiction.
It is alone responsible for it, and must, therefore, take care that
it neither abandons a jurisdiction rightfully belonging to it, nor
usurps that which does not.
2d. Admitting that a plea to the jurisdiction is *notthe only
remedy, for the reasons I have given, upon complaint made
bf any fraud on the jurisdiction having been practised, if the
complaint is supported on good grounds, it is just that an immediate inquiry, should be made into it, in order that if any
injury to a party has been hitherto unavoidably sustained by
any such fraud, it may be put a stop to, as soon as possible.
To compel a party, in such a case, to stay in Court, until a jury
shall be summ6ned and convened, to try a general issue, would
be a voluntary exercise of jurisdictibn, after the Court entertained reason to doubt, at least, whether they had any.
3d. To swear a jury is an exercise of jurisdiction. With what
propriety can I order that, after being fully convinced from evidence, admitted to be competent, that the Court hath no jurisdiction at all?
4th. Suppose the jury in this case should find for the plaintiff,
when the Court was thoroughly convinced it had no jurisdiction
of the cause! Can the Court give judgment for the plaintiff in
such a case? Surely not. If, therefore, a verdict to that effect,
could produce no good, why should a verdict be required. of
them? Because this would not be an ordinary case concerning a
new trial; in which case, after two or three verdicts the same
way, a Court might be compelled to stop, and proceed no further. But if there were a hundred verdicts in ti case, in their
opinion, not within their jurisdiction, they could not give judgment without voluntarily usurping a power not belonging to them.
5th. In this case there is no occasion for a jury to Ir!; the
facts, because the facts are not denied, and the Court surely will
VOL. IV.
2X
not

338

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THII

1797. not call a jury to decide a question of law, and a question which,
-

as I have just observed, they could not decide finally.
llxfaield's allegations in this case, are either a direct confession, or as to some points (if the expression is proper) a nil dicit.
In neither case is a jury wanting. A complete denial can alone
entitle a party to have facts tried by a jury. There is no denial
in this case but of the merits, upon which a jury can be sworn;
which certainly would be premature when facts had ahread;been
confessed sufficient to oust the jurisdiction. Had he positively
denied, indeed, the allegations of the bill in equity, the jury must
have been swom; for, as a Judge, I certainly could not, 3n any
shape, determine on an issue of fact.
But as he has not- thought proper to deny them, but, in my
opinion, substantially confessed every thing, to show that the
Court had no jurisdiction of the cause; I consider myself bound
to order these ejectments to be dismissed, and do accordingly
order them to.be dismissed with costs. (1)
Here one of the counsel inierfered, and asked the Judge whether he would order costs in a case where he declared the Court
had no jurisdiction.
The Judge answered, That that circumstance did .not occur
to him; he acknowledged he had committed a mistake in that
part of the order. But, if it was in his power, he would order

double costs. (2)
(1) Mr. "illant Tilghman, one of the counsel for the defendants, quoted a
case-in Saviry's Reports, p. 12. which Judge IItEDELL thought much in point,
and meant to have declared so, in delivering his opinimli, but inadvertently
omitted it.
See Worlay v. Harrison, Dyer, 249. 2 Inst. 215. 21 Vinc, 535, 536. tit.
racat.
(2) In the case of Bowne', Lessee v. AurbucAle, in the Circuit Court, at
October.term'1806, it appeared, upon bUl and ansu er on the cqui'y side of the
*Court, that th0 lessor of the plaintiff" was a citizen of the state of 24ew-1trrk,
and the defendant was a citizen of Pennsylvania; that the f,-mcr w:-s a member of the population company, who hhd purchased extensive tracts of land,
on the north-western bohndary of Penneylania; that the land, so purcha.ed,
was held by trustees (all citizens of Penns. vania) for the use of the company;
that the trustees had conveyed to the lessor of the plaintiff his puvtion of thie
land (including the premises mentioned in the deClaratiun) bi severalty; and
that the present ejectment was founded upon that conveyance.
The defendant, upon these facts, and upon the authority of Jrax"el'sLesoee v. Lev , and Hurst v. Hurst, moved to strike from the record this ejectment, ana others in the same predicament. But the motion was over-ruled by
the Court; and this distinction taken:
WASHINGTrON, YuStdCe. In the cases cited, the dbeds were executed, with
a collusive intention, to give a jurisdictiori to the Court, which the Court
could not possess without them. The objection proceeded on tt-o grounds:
1st. On the equity of the statute provision, which declares, that a suit shall
not be maintained in a federal Caurt, by the assignee of a promissory note, or

other-chose in action (with the single exception of foreign bills of excha,-e)
unless

CIRcUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.
unless it could have been brought there, by the original party. And, 2d. On the
manifest attempt, by a fraud, to create jurisdiotion. But in the case now under consideration, the lessor of the plaintiff would have had a right, as a citizen of Nev-2ork, to apply to the equity side of the Court, to compel the
trustees to convey his share of the trust estate to him: and if the trustees have
only voluntarily made a conveyance, which the Court would have decreed,
surely we cannot call it a fraudulent deed, or refuse to take cognizance of
a suit founded upon it, between a citizen of Nct:-2 rk and a citizqn of Pe.n,t;'Iavia.

339
1797.

