SUPREME COURT
OP

PENNSYLVANIA.

March Term 1804.
Maybin, sulviving partner, &c. versus Coulon.
Coulon versus Maybin, surviving partner, &c.

T

HESE actions having been referred, the referees reported
that there was due, in the first, 1rom the defendant to the
plaintiff, as surviving partner of Joseph Anthony and Co. d sum
of 30,708
dollars; and that in the sec6nd there was no cause
of action. To this report, Coulon filed a number of exceptions, of
which it is only necessary to state the Aubstance of the single exception, which was the ground of the decision of the Court: to
writ, " That the balance reported to be due to Maybin, arose from
a series of unlawful transactions, in violation of the acts of congress, respecting the registering of vessels, and the duties on tonnage and imposX; and, consequently, no Court of justice could
lend its aid to enforce the recovery."
The fhct5 were briefly these: Coulon, an alien, came to the
United States in the year 1794, bringing with him a considerable
quantity of merchandize, which he placed in the hands of 7oseph.
.Anthony and Co. He had, also, left a considerable property in
the sl of France; and he was not only desirous to have that
property brought to ".Anerica,but to enter into various commercial speculations, with these and other funds, in the European, as
wel.as Indian, markets. He accordingly entered into engagements with /oseph Anthony and Co.; and, in consideration of
his making them the depositaries of his funds, with an allowance
of amp!e commissions for services, and of interest for advances,
they undertook to purchase vessels and cargoes for him, in their
own names; and in like manner to import the return cargoes.
Among the vessels purchasedefor Coulon (some carrying only a
sea-

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C

2

sea-letter) was the Arerica, which was registered in .'w-2-rh,
as the property of 7oseph Anthony and Co. American citizens;
and a cargo afterwards brought in the America, from the Isle of
Prance, though entirely ovned by Coulon, was entered at the
custom-house of Philadelphia,as owned by them. From the accounts and correspondence produced in Court, as well as before the referees, it clearly appeared, that the balance resulted
from these illicit transactions; and that the sum reported to be
due to Ataybin, was about the amount of the commissions for
services, and the interest for occasional advances; the nett price
of the vessels and cargoes, having been actually paid Irnl the
funds of Coulon.
The counsel for Coulon insisted, that the referees hi-d erred,
in point of law, by giving a sanction to the violation of the acts of
congress (1); and that their report could not, therefore, b sustained, or affirmed by the Court. In the course of the ar-'un:nt
theycited, 1 Pow. on Contr. 183. 195. 201. 203. 1 Bous. & Pull.
340. 3 T. RP. 454. 4 T. Rep. 466. 1 Bous. & Pul. 296. Cc-, ty.
341. 5 T. Rep. 599. 1 Bous. & Pull. 556. 4 Burr. !:069. 3 T.
Rey). 421. 6 T. Rep, 61. 405. 3 ez.nim. 373.
The counsel for l.Iaybin argued, That advances were made,
and services performed, to a great amount, indtpendnt of the
vessels and cargoes, and were not involved in any illicit imputation; that it did not appear that the sum reported arose out of
an illicit consideration, -or contract; that it was too late after a
reference and report, which liquidated the accounts, to object to
the legadity of the consideration and contract; and that. e, cn if
the general transaction were illicit, still the contract being executed between the vendor and the vendee of the propertn, the
plaintiff, not being the actual vendor, had a right to rtcovwr the
money paid by 'Ioseph-Anthony and Co. to the vendor, at the
request, and for the use of the defendant. In support of this last
position, the following authorities were cited: 1 Pow. on Contr.
200, 1. 4 Burr. L069. 1 BI. Rep. 633. CGo6p. 34s. ;3 T. Rip.
418, 9. 6 T. Rep. 61. 7 T. Rip. 3 V-z.jun. 612, 3. 8 T. Rep.
575. 577.
The cause having been argued, on these general grounds, during several days in December term 1803, and March term 1804.,
the unanimous opinion of the Judges was delivered, upon full
consideration, by SHIPPEN, Ghie.J*ustice,in substance, as follows.

By the COURT: There is a just debt due friom the defendant
Caoion, to the plaintiff, MZkaybin; and, therefore, as far as the
Court could lawfully act, they wou.d be desirous to affirm the
(1) See the Registering Act, 2 vol. 131.; and the impost law, 4 vol. p. 279.
report

299
1804.

300

CASES

RULED

AND ADJDCGD IN TIME

1804. report of the referees. -Hence, we listened, with part;'ilar atten.
tion and favour to the attempt of the plaintiff's counsel to distinguish the origin of the sum reported, from the general mass
of the illicit transaction. The attempt has not, however, been
successful; -so that we must decide the question on the principles
of law, which are clearly estaulished by the authorities that have
been cited.
The positive provisions of the laws of the United States, respecting Ame.ican registered. vessels; the national policy of our
navigation system; good faith towards the belligerent powers;
and the very foundations of morality; have been violated in the
course of tle transaction, now exhibited to us. The act of the
Court is necessary to give effect to the report of the referees:
but no Court of justice of the United States can lend its aid, at
ant time, or in any degree, to recover a debt originating in a
source so forbidden, so tul, and so pernicious. The report cannot,-therefore, be affirmed. (1)
Report set aside.
Ingersoll, E. Tilghman, and Levy, for _4aybin.
Du .Ponceau"
and Dallas,for Coulon.

Deshler versus Beery.

T

HIS was an action of dower, by the widow of David D'sh/er, against the tenant of the premises, tried at Ea'ton.
N'orthampton county, the"27th of yine 1804.
In point of fact, it appeared, that Lesher died, leaving a will.
dated the 2d of .November 1796, in which he bequeathed to his
wife a legacy of 10001., his hous'ehold goods, and a house for
Ilie; and "appointed her executrix, and jVeuhart and Schrudder
executors. Befdre his death, he had sold and conveyed the premists to George Eddy, taking bonds and a mortgage for the purchase money; but Eddy's conveyance was not recorded. The
ex-cutorb instituted a suit, obtained judgment, and issued execution against Eddy; in consequence of which, the same property
was levied upon, and advertised for :,ale. At the instance of the
wvidow (the present plaintiff) Neulhart, one of the executors, be(l-)
It appcared, that one of the refercc% upon discovering the illicit nature
t'i.e
transacti,, declined pioceeding; but was persuaded to resume the
biN'-ness of the reterence, in consequence of an urgent letter firom May'in,
al pealing particularly to the sympathy and benevolence of the referee. One
of Cmno,'s exccptions to the report, %as pointed at this ex parte communica.
tion; and the Covr'r, in delivering their opinion upon the general question,
Ctatec, in strong terms, their disapprobation of one of the prties addressing
the v-Coees, h%way ot'cohfidene, oi- soliciation, pending the ieference, though
the letter should not contain any retuarks on the merits of the controversy.

came

