SUPREME COURT
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

April Term 1792.
Morris's Lessee versus Smith.
ECTMENT for 23 acres in Philadelphiacounty. It was

agreed, that 7ohn Hunt, (under whom both parties claimed)
did seised of the premises; and the lessor of the plaintiff's imnediate title was derived under a judgment obtained against
.L-tunt's executors, in June term 1786,' at the suit of Thomas
Corbin for .105L. 10.; upon which there was an execution, a
sheriff's sale, and a sheriff's deed to the plaintiff, dated the 5th
of June 178o.
relied upon this statement: THunt died the 31st
Trhe defendant
1778, having made his will, and leaving an only son,
of MtYJ'arch
who sold and conveyed the premises to WVilliam ZblLfCulough, on
valuable
a fuall and
for 1786,
December
of decided
the 2.6thwas
a conveyance
such consideratiofi.
(1) that
the year
in 1778,
Buit
the real
protect
to
sufficient
not
was
devisee,
by the heir at law, or
of
executrix
and
widow
the
then,
and,
cr~editors;
from
estate
hunt, confessed a judgment to Corbn, upon. which the premises
were taken in execution, and sold to the lessor of the plaintiff,
but, in truth, for, the widow's use. Joh2? Hunt, the father, had,
deN~ew.Jerse.;
property
real and
Pennof to
a considerable
of the'lawyet,
also,
to getinclear
purchase,
feat leftfe'Cnullough',
sylvania, that property was left unsold, and unappropriated; andl
the premises purued to satisfy this voluntary judgment.
But the plaintiff, to rebut the insinuation of collusion and fraud,
the lands in Pennshad
nt purchased
proved satisfactorily, that
tw-Jersey, with money borrowed friom
sylvani , as well as in
Corbin; for the amount of which he had given his bond, dated
the 1st of January 1762; that sevv:ral partial payments were inRep. 170
(l)See I DJa[L

dorsed

120
1792.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDdED IN THE

dorsed on the bond; that, on the 26th of October 1768, the balance
Sbeing then considerable; Hunt conveyed to Corhin a tract of land
in New-rork, and several tracts of land in New-ersey, including
the greater part of the property mentioned by the defendant; that

on the 6th of September 1787, the plaintiff conveyed the premises
to lames Pemberto,, for the nominal consideration of five shillings;
and that "Pembertonexecuted a declaration of trust, to the use
of Corbin.
Upon this developement of the case, however, two points were
made, and, at the request of the counsel, reserved for future
argument:
1st. Whether the land could be sold by virtue of the judgment,
without a scire facia; against the terre-tenant?
2d. Whether the land was liable for the testator's debts, after
being aliened by the heir at law, bona fide, and for a valuable
consideration?
Verdict for the plaintiff. (1)

Calhoun's Lessee versus Dunning. (2)

E

JECTMENT. The inception of the plaintiff's title depended upon an extract from the record-of licences, or grants,
by Blunston, dated March 1734-5, which was merely a minute in
these words: "1ohnCalhoun 200 acres on Dunning'si run, called
" the Dry ,5pring, between Yacob Dunning and Ezekiel Dun" nin'," By the field notes of Cookson, a surveyor, it appeared
that there was a survey of the land -on the 22d of Afarch 1743-4,
for Robert Dunning; but a memorandum was afterwards made
by one .3orse, a clerk to the surveyor, "that the land was claimed
" by the heirs of 7ohn Calhoun." 7ohh Calhoun having entered
a caveat, the decision of the board of property was pronounced,
on the 24th of November 1766, setting forth, ! that under Jhn" ston's licence, 7. Calhoun took possession and cleared ihree
" acres, built a cabin, and returned to Chester county, where he
"dwelt: that in 1743 one Arn.'trong got a warrant, but was told
" bv Dunning that the land belonged to Calhoun, of whom he
, had purchased it: that afterwards Dunninh- took out a war"rant in his own name, and got a survey made, on which a caveat was enteretl against Ilim: that an ejectmznt was brought,
" in which Dunning lost the possession; that Dunning then purchased Armstrong's warrant, got a survey upon it, and now
(1) It doies not appear that these questions were ever argued in the present
suit. But sce I Dall. Rep. 481.
(2) Decided at Carlisle, in Cumberlandcotuity, XKii Pritis, lth
RA
O tO R D , YLutiec .

efqre S uirer i, nd B

Iay 1792l
" claimed

