206

CASES RULED AND ADJUDiED IN THE

2d. The defendant alledged, that the plaintiffs had agreed to

1800.

L-.-a take payment of the debt, for which the action was brought, in

Tennessee militia certificates, if David Allison approved of it.
Allison approved, in writing, of the proposed payment, and the
certificates were delivered to him; but it became a question, how
far that delivery was satisfaction to the plaintiffs? And Allison
being dead, J. Levy, offered himself as a witness to prove, that
on a question of bail, before M'KEAN, 6 7. Allison deposed,
that the plaintiffs had debited him with the amount 'of the certificates, in their account current. The plaintiffs' counsel objected
to the evidence.
And, by the COURT: Nothing that passed before the judge,
on the question of bail, can be evidence on the trial, unless it was
clearly admitted, as a fact, by the party.
T . Tilghnan and Hallowell, for the plaintiffs.
,11. Levy and Dallas, for the defendant.

Bussy versus Donaldson.

T

HIS was an action on the case, against the owner of the ship
Edwvard, for running foul of, and sinking, the brig Katy, at
the piers in the river Ddaware, by negligence, and improvident
and unskilful management, &c. The defence was made on three
grounds: 1st. That the injury was occasioned by an unavoidable
accident, for which no reparation ought to be exacted. 2d. That
as the ship Edward was in the charge of a public pilot of the
port, (a person not the choice, nor the voluntary agent, of the
owner) when the injury was committed, the owner was not legally responsible. And, on this point, the following authorities
were cited: 3 Bac. Abr. 591, 2. 7 Geo. 2. c. 15. 3 State Laws, 422.
.v. 8. 10. 15. Wesc. 395. Beawes, 122. 1 Emirig. 402, 3. 1B. Con,.
4"31, 2. 1 Dora. 241. Tit. 16. s. 3. Salk. 442. 4410. 3 Bac.Abr.560.
3d. That the amount of the injury actually sustained, is not the
measure of damages, in the present action. 1 Dall. Rep. 18o.
Purviance et al. v. Angus.
After argument by TV. Tilhnzan, -41"'Levy, and Razule, for
the plaintiff, afd by Ingersoll, E. Tilg'hman, and Lewis, for the
the pleas were non a.-s'utssit, and payment, the defendant might, of course,
strike out the plea of non asvinpsit, without applying to the Court, at any
time .before the jury were actually sworn. They said, it operated to relieve
tle plaintiff, from the necessity of-proving tile assumption, and was, therefore,
for his advantage. But they listinguished it from the case of adding a plea,
as essentially diffrrent; that case requiring the authority ofthe Court. ruyton V.
Brieulle, October term 1806. Dallas,for the plaintiff. Ingermol and.Du.1onceau,
for the defendant.

defendant.

207

SLTPRJME COURT OF PENNSYLVANA.

defendant, the Judges delivered their opinions to the jury, in 1800.
substance, as follows:
SHIPPEN, Chief Yustice. The first object, that naturally presents itself, is to ascertain, whether .the injury complained of,
was the consequence of gross negligence, or of mere accident.
This falls, exclusively, within the province of the jury: but, if they
shall think, that the iniury was the consequence of gross negligence, then 'the plaintiff is entitled to recover damages; unless
some rule of law interposes to prevent it, under the peculiar circumstances of the present case.
In considering the point of. law, we are led into a field of inquiry equally interesting for its novelty, and its importance: for,
although the defendant admits, that in ordinary cases, the owner
of a ship is answerable, civiliter, for the injuries 'committed, in
the course of his service, by the captain and crew; it is insisted,
that a pilot, under the regulatiohs of our act of assembly, for his
examination and appointment, is not to be regarded as the agent,
or servant, of the owner, but rather as the officer of the public.
Though it is not ageeable to deliver opinions, on important
points of law, suddenly started, in the course of a trial, I think I
can safely pronounce, on the present occasion, that the distinction, which has been taken, is rather plausible, than-solid. The
legislative regulations were not intended to alter, or obliterate,
the principles of law, by which the owner of a vesselwas previously responsible, for the conduct of the pilot; but to secure, in
favoor of every "person (strangeis as well as residents) trading to
our port, a class of experienced, skilful, and honest, mariners, to
navigate their vessels safe up the bay and river Delaware. The
mere right of choice, indeed, is one, but not .the only, reason,
why the law, in general, makes the master liable for the acts of
his servant: and, in many cases, where the responsibility is allowed to exist, the servant may not, in fact, be the choice of the
master. For instance: if the captain of a merchant vessel dies
on the voyage, the mate becomes captain; and the owner is liable
for his acts, though the owner did not hire him, originally, nor
expressly chuse him to succeed the captain. The reason is plain:
he is in the actual service of the owner, placed there, as it were,
by the act of God. And so, in the case under consideration,
the pilot was in the actual service of the owner -of the ship,.
thdugh placed in that service, by the provident act of the legis-'
lature. The general rule of law, then, entitles the plaintiff to recover; and we have heard of no authority, we can recollect fionethat distinguishes the case of a pilot, from those numerous cases,
on which the general rule is founded.
As to the assessnent of damages: it is a rational, and a legal,
principle, that the conipensation should be equivalenit to the in.
jury. There mhay be soie -ccasional dh:partu-cs ffom this prin-

cipli

.208

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE"

1800. ciple; but I think it will be found safest to adhere to it, in all
Scases proper for a legal indemnification, in the shape of damages.
SMITH, _.ustiee. I perfectly concur in the opinion expressed
by the Chief .ustice, upon the responsibility of the owner of a
ship. But, I confess, that I am not prepared to accede to his
opinion, on the assessment of damages. I take this distinction.
In a case of contract; or in a case of damage by gross negligence; the jury .should always, I think, give a compensation to
the full amoL.it of the injury actually sustained. But if an injury is done, in a way merely fortuitous and accidental, I think
thie jury have a legal and salutary discretion upon the subject.

BRACKE RIDGE,

_ustice, concurred generally in the senti-

ments of the Chief 7zistice.
Verdict in favour of the plaintiff for 2,500 dollars. (1).
Water's Executors versus M'ClelIm et al. (2).

T

RESPASS for goods of the testator, taken and sold by thc
sheriff, on an execution issued against Dewees. The principal part of the goods were claimed by t'e testator, under a distress and sale, which he had, also, executed against Dezees; but
he had left the goods in Deuees's possession for four or five
years. The charge contained the following points:
SHIPPEN, Chiefyustice. 1st. It is incumbent on the plaintiff,
to prove his property in the goods, which were taken by the sheriff; and to do this, he has produced evidence of a former distress and sale, of the same goods, fbr rent due from Dezwees to
him. But the defendants answer, that the distress was fraudulent; because (among other reasons) the goods were left in the
possession of the debtor. In the case of a voluntary sale of goods,
the law, both in Pennsylvania and Eng-land, regards the continuance of the debtor's possession, as a badge of fraud. In England,
the law is the same, where the sale is made by the sheriff; but
in Pennsylvania a different rule, in that case, has prevailed; and
where a relation, or friend, after, a fair purchase, at public sale,,
leaves the 'goods in the occupancy and use of the debtor, it never has been deemed a fraud upon creditors. As, therefore, the
purchase, on the present occasion, was not by a private bill of
sale; but at an open, public, vendue; the continued possession
(I) The account exhibited for the whole expense of raising and repairing
the brig, anounted to 13101. 8:. 9d.
(2) Tried in the Circuit Court, Prest-Cievter, 29th of May 1800, before
S,.irrx, Ckief):'.tice, and YZAT S, f li6C''.

