120
1792.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDdED IN THE

dorsed on the bond; that, on the 26th of October 1768, the balance
Sbeing then considerable; Hunt conveyed to Corhin a tract of land
in New-rork, and several tracts of land in New-ersey, including
the greater part of the property mentioned by the defendant; that

on the 6th of September 1787, the plaintiff conveyed the premises
to lames Pemberto,, for the nominal consideration of five shillings;
and that "Pembertonexecuted a declaration of trust, to the use
of Corbin.
Upon this developement of the case, however, two points were
made, and, at the request of the counsel, reserved for future
argument:
1st. Whether the land could be sold by virtue of the judgment,
without a scire facia; against the terre-tenant?
2d. Whether the land was liable for the testator's debts, after
being aliened by the heir at law, bona fide, and for a valuable
consideration?
Verdict for the plaintiff. (1)

Calhoun's Lessee versus Dunning. (2)

E

JECTMENT. The inception of the plaintiff's title depended upon an extract from the record-of licences, or grants,
by Blunston, dated March 1734-5, which was merely a minute in
these words: "1ohnCalhoun 200 acres on Dunning'si run, called
" the Dry ,5pring, between Yacob Dunning and Ezekiel Dun" nin'," By the field notes of Cookson, a surveyor, it appeared
that there was a survey of the land -on the 22d of Afarch 1743-4,
for Robert Dunning; but a memorandum was afterwards made
by one .3orse, a clerk to the surveyor, "that the land was claimed
" by the heirs of 7ohn Calhoun." 7ohh Calhoun having entered
a caveat, the decision of the board of property was pronounced,
on the 24th of November 1766, setting forth, ! that under Jhn" ston's licence, 7. Calhoun took possession and cleared ihree
" acres, built a cabin, and returned to Chester county, where he
"dwelt: that in 1743 one Arn.'trong got a warrant, but was told
" bv Dunning that the land belonged to Calhoun, of whom he
, had purchased it: that afterwards Dunninh- took out a war"rant in his own name, and got a survey made, on which a caveat was enteretl against Ilim: that an ejectmznt was brought,
" in which Dunning lost the possession; that Dunning then purchased Armstrong's warrant, got a survey upon it, and now
(1) It doies not appear that these questions were ever argued in the present
suit. But sce I Dall. Rep. 481.
(2) Decided at Carlisle, in Cumberlandcotuity, XKii Pritis, lth
RA
O tO R D , YLutiec .

efqre S uirer i, nd B

Iay 1792l
" claimed

SUPREME COURT oF PENNSYLVANIA.

121

"claimed a patent: but the board of property ordered.the patent 1792.
"to issue to Calhoun." By will, dated the 19th of September 6
175-, 5ohn Calhoun devised the premises to Rebecca Calhoun,
who conveyed the same to 7ane.s.Calhoun, the lessor of the plaintiff, by deed the 20th 7ul 1763; and he, having made a re-survey, on the 5th of Sepftember 1788, obtained a patent on the 3d
of April 1789.
The defendant's claim depended on the following facts: In
1753 DTinning lived on the pr,-mises and reaped corn on it so
late as 1778. In 1779, one Carutherswas making a fence on part of
the land; he continued to live there at the time of the re-survey
in 1788; and he was considered as the owner by purchase from
Calhoun. But in 1764, a survey was made for.Dunning, under
Arnmstrong'." warrant, which, as the surveyor affirmed, left the
disputed land entirely out of the lines. In an action of trespass,
between Dunnhz - and Caruthers,(plea, liberunm tenementum) there
was a reference, in the year 1783, on which it was awarded, and
the award affirmed by the Court, that the line should be run between the parties, so as to leave the disputed land, in the possession of the plaintiff, Duning.
1st. It was objected, that the record of the action of trespass,
could not be read on the trial of the present ejectment, as it was
not between the same parties. But, it was answered, that Caruthers, the defendant then, was now the person really -interested,
.as owner of the land; that Calhoun was merely a trustee; and
that, as an action might be brought in the name of the cetui que
trua4t, 1 Dall.Rep. 72. the judgment ought to be admitted.
And, by the COURT: We can never acquiesce, in an attempt,
so manifestly calculated to evade the truth and justice of the
case. Shall it be in the power of a party, by suppressing a deed;
or by employiig the name of a trustee; to avoid the legal effect
of a judgment rendered against him? In the action of trespass,
"Caruther&'pleadedliberum tenementum, as to the very lands now
claimed by Calhoun; and Calhoun has never controverted his
right. It is plain, therefore, that Calhoun's name is now employed, for the use of Caruthers;and that the parties are really, though
not nominally, the same, in both suits. Objection over-ruled.
2d. In the charge to the jury, it was stated,
By the COURT; Bhtnston'&licences h ve always been deemed
valid; and many titles in Pmnsylvania depend upon them. The
equitable right acquired by the lessor of plaintiff under a licence,
hub been perfected, by a survey, and patent; so that he clearly
possesses a legal title to the land in dispute.
On the ocher hand, the defendant has no office right, but rests
his pretensions, on an early pds;.ession, the exclusion of the disVol.. IV.
R
puted

122

CASEs RULED

A9D

ADJUDGED I14 THE

1192. puted land in ttie re-survey of- 1764, and the award and judg.

ment, in the action of trespass. Of the equitable circumstances,
the jury will judge, with this remark from the Court; that a
mere improvemcnt right, ought never to be rendered effectual in
favour of a settler, when it commences subsequent to the existence of the legal right, regularly vested in another.
The great objection, however, to the plaintiff's recovery, arises
from the award and judgment. To be sure, an award cannot
give a right to land; but a report of referees will settle a dispute
about land, either in an *ejectment, or in an action of trespass.
In the case of Foox's Lessee v. Franklin, a similar report has been
made, and affirmed. Indeed, such a report is more operative
than a verdict: for, a verdict in ejectment is not conclusive; but
when parties chuse to adjust their disputes amicably, they generally agree, that the award shall" be final; and, under such an
agreement, neither of them can hope again successfully to agitate
the same points.
Under this charge, the plaintiff suffered a nonsuit. (1)

Gander's Lessee v rsus Burns et al.
ECT IENT for lands in .fZifin county-. On the trial of
the cause, the'folowing general principles were stated in
the charge to the jury.
By the COURT: The first inquiry is, whether the location-and
warrant call for the same place. If they do, then as there is
ground enough to satisfy both, one shall not run away with .1
but shall be confined to what he purchased.
This is the rule in the board of property, and if Snedon's right-,
have not been abandoned nor transferred to Dearmond, it is the
rule that ought to be applied here.
Those rights do not seem to have been abandoned: for in
1761, the children were infants, and were hardly of age, when
this action was brought. Laches cannot, therefore, be imputed.
Whether Dearinondpurchased must be left to the jury: he
hail the receipt, and that is some ground for presumption added
to his own declarations, which, as they come on the part of the
plaintiff, are evidence.
But if the rights remain, then the next question is, how shall
the location and warrant be laid? This must be determined
either by the (1) description; or (2) by the prior improvement;
or (3) by th- priority of date.
As to the description, Snqder calls for Everhart as his boundary, and Foster for Buchanan, at opposite ends of the whole
k1) Decicd at Xss Privus, G(r'!tti, C.i,:zide-ia,." county, in Aray 1702.
tract,

