6

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGEL

1799.

.N THE

terposition of this Court, to which her settlers, the defendants
Sbelow, cannot originally resort? It is a fundamental principle of
the law of nature and of nations, that every government is bound
to preserve peace and order, to protect individuals, to indemnify
those who trust to its faith, and to prevent a dismemberment of
its territory. This political and moral obligation, enforced by a
regard to her public improvements, and fiscal operations, creates
an interest of the highest character in the government ofNe-r orh;
and such as the Court will cherish with all its benevolence and
authority. 21 Vin. Abr. 181. p1. 1. Ibid. 183. p1. 4, 5. 7. Ibid.
p1. 8. 11. a Black. Com. 255, 6.
The CoURT, after advisement, delivered their opinion, that as the
State of New-2 ork was not a party to the suits below, nor inter-,
ested in the decision of those suits, an injunction ought not to
issue.
Injunction refused. (5)

The same Cause.
S the state of Connecticut did-not appear, Hofman moved that
appear on the first day of next term, or that the
plaintiff be then at liberty to proceed ex parte. 3 Dal.335. But
Lewis observed, that the rule required that a subpoena issuifig
in a suit in equity, should be served sixty days before the return;
which had not been done in the present case. The first motion
was, thereupon, waived; and an alias subpoena awarded. 3 Dal.
320.

Ashe should

Hazlehurst et al. versus The United States.
N error from the Circuit Court for the district of South-Carolina. A rule had been obtained by Lee, the attorney-general,
at the opening of the Court, that the plaintiffs appear and prosecute
their writ of error within the term, or suffer a non-pros.: hut it
was found, that errors had been assigned in the Court below, and
(5) Hof-man. In every grant by New-1art, there is a reservation of gold and
silver mines, and of five acres per cent. for roads. The bill might, besides, be
amended, by averring the state to be interested in a residuum of the land, if
that would be sufficient to sustain the prayer for an injunction.
WASHINGTON, .fusticte The amendment would "not satisfy me; fbr, my
opinion is founded upon the fact, that New-Tork is not interested in. the suits
below.
CHAsE, %Mdeice. It is a mere bill to settle boundaries; and we must take it
as we find it; not as it might be made.
ELLSNOaTH,

ChiefyztYia.

If there had been a quorum of jdges, without

my attendance, I should have declined sitting in this cause. As it is, I am glad
that the opinion of my brethren, dispenses with the necessity of my taking a
part in the decision.
a joiiider

SUPREME .CouRT OP THE UNITED STATEB.

a joinder in error entered here. The rule was, therefore, changed
to the following: " that unless the plaintiffs in error appear and
argue the errors to-morrow, a non-pros. be entered." The plaintiffs
not appearing, the writ of-error was non-prossed, according to the
rule.

Turner, Administrator, versus Enrille.

E RROR
from the Circuit Court of South-Carolina. The record, as abridged for the Judges, presented the following
case:
" The Marquis de Caso Enrille instituted an action on the case
against Thomas Turner, the administrator of Wright Stanley,
in the Circuit Court of North-Carolina,of Yune term 1795.
", A declaration in case was filed ' by the Marquis de Caso
Enrille, of
in the island of
' of 7une term 1796,
in which it is set forth, that Wright Stanley (the intestate) and
John Wright Stanley and Yames Greene were ' merchants and
part-ers at Newberin in the said district? that Wright Stanley
survived the other partners; that on the 4th of iune 1791, in the
lifetime of all the partners, they were indebted ' unto the said
Marquis in
dollars;' and in consideration thereof, assumed
to pay, &c. The 2d count insimul computassent, when the said
partners 'Iwerefound in arrearto the said Marquis in other
dollars,' &c. The plaintiff concludes with the usual averments of
non-payment, 'to the damage of the saidMarquis
dollars' &c.
" On the 30th of November 1796, the defendant appeared, and
pleaded, 1st. Non assumpsitintest. Replication and issue. 2d. The
statute of limitations as to the intestate: Replication, an account
currentbetween merchant andfactor. Rejoinder and issue. 3d. Set-,
off, that the plaintiff was indebted'to the intestate, on the 1st of
January 1792, in more than the damages by the plaintiff sus.
tainedi &c. to wit, in 4000 dollars, for money had and received
by the plaintiff to the intestate's use, which sum is still due to the
defendant, as administrator. Replicition that .plaintiff csved nothing, &c. Rejoinder asid issue. 4th. The statute of limitations
as to the administrator. Replication that the demand was made
within three years, &c. Rejoinder and issue. 5th. Plene administravit. Replication assets. Rejoinder and issue.
" On the 1st of 7une 1199, the issues were tried, a verdict was
given on all the 'issues for the plaintiff, and the jury assessed
damages at 3289 65 dollars. Judgment for damages, costs and
charges;
" Writ of error. Errors assigned:- 1st. That it does not appear
on the pleadings,&c. that either plaintiff or defendant was an alien
or that they were citizens of different Itates. 2d That there are
blanks in the declaration for places, dates, and suins. 3d. The
general erwrors. Plea, In nullo e.st erratum. Replication and issue."
For

r'.

