SUPREME- COURT
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

March Term 1802.
Falconer versus Montgomery et at.
T [ HIS was a replevin for fifteeil hogsheads ofrum; and the
.Lmatters in dispute were referred to armes Currie,and David
Winchester, with power to chuse an umpire, F they disagreed.
The two referees met, by consent of parties, in Baltimore; and
b6th sides wiere.fully heard; the evidence being al in writing,
and no part of it rejected. It appeared, however, that the plain.
tiff objected to the consideration and decision of any other matter, than the claim to the rum, for which the replevin was brought;
while the defendants insisted upon an investigation of all the
commercial transactions between the parties. 'The referees di-

vided 'in'opinion upon these propositions; and appointing YospA
"Williams, as an umpire, they stated to him (in the absence of the
parties) the facts, as- they had previously appeared to them. The
umpire then examined the accounts produced to him (the parties being still absent) concurred in opinion with the referee, who
thought that the reference was confined to the dispute about the
rum; and signed, with him, a report, in favour of the plaintiff,
for 1837 dollar and 45 cents; but the other referee, persevering
in his opinioii of the general nature of the subject submitted, declined .joining in the report.
Exceptions were filed by the defendants; but the only one
pressed in argument, upon the Court, was, "thatthe umpire had
11 not himself heard, from the parties themselves, their respective
".allegations and arguments, on the merits of the controversy."
For the defendanti, it was urged, that an umpire, being it
judge, ought to hear for himself, and not throulgh another, the
evidence and the reaspning, on which he is to decide; that it is,
also, the right of every suitor, to be heard himself, originally,
.nd

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

23

:nd not to have his cause depend upon a second hand report of 1802.
his proofs and arguments; and that, in the present instance, the k
unipire might have been induced to view the facts and principles
of the case, in a different point of light, if they had been presented by the parties, who were alone interested to give them all
their force. 1 DalL. Rep. 293.
fiat the plaintif, it was observed, that however widely the
parties diffred on ficts and principles, the referees knew no diversity of sentiment, but upon the single question, how far the
rule of reference extended. Their general statements, therefore,
to the umpire, were in unison; and he examined, for himself, il
the accounts, which the parties had exhibited. It has been decided, in Hall v. Lawrence, 4 T. Rep. 589. that the award of an
umpire will not be set aside, because he received the evidence
from the arbitrators, without examining the witnesses himself.
unless such a re-examination was expressly requested.
By the COUnT:" The case of Hall v. Lawrence was decided in
1792. It is not, therefore, binding upon us, as an authority; and,
upon principle, we cannot accede to the decision. The plainest
(tictates of natural justice, must prescribe to every tribunal, the
law, that "no man shall be condemned unheard." It is not merely an abstract rule, or positive, right; but it is the result of long
experience, and of a wise attention to the feelings and dispositions of human nature. A. artless narrative of facts, a natural
and ardent course of reasoning, by the party himself, will sometimes have a wonderful effect upon a sound and generous mind;
an effect, which the cold and minute details of a reporter, can
neithcr produce, nor supplant. Besides; there is scarcely apiece
of i ritten evidence, or a sLntence of oral testimony, that is not
susceptible of some explanation, or exposed.to some contradiction: there is scarcely an argument that may not be elucidated,
so as to ,nsure success; or controverted, so as to prevent it. To
exelude the partN, therefore, from the opportunit. of interposinn-,
in :.in of these inodes (which tile most candid and thz. most intelligent, but a disintrresttd, -person, may easily ox erlook) is not
only a privation of his right; but an act of iiJustice to the urnpire; wlose mind might be materially influenced by such an interposition.
Under these impressions, and upon the single ground, to which
tey relate, we are, unanimously, of opinion, that the report of
the rel'er~s must be set aside.
R1part set aside.
M. Tx'y, and Franklin, for the plaintiff.
In;,er5o,I
, ."lan,and Hopkinson, for tile defendants.
V- L. IV.

",IL
Hx%'

