122

CASEs RULED

A9D

ADJUDGED I14 THE

1192. puted land in ttie re-survey of- 1764, and the award and judg.

ment, in the action of trespass. Of the equitable circumstances,
the jury will judge, with this remark from the Court; that a
mere improvemcnt right, ought never to be rendered effectual in
favour of a settler, when it commences subsequent to the existence of the legal right, regularly vested in another.
The great objection, however, to the plaintiff's recovery, arises
from the award and judgment. To be sure, an award cannot
give a right to land; but a report of referees will settle a dispute
about land, either in an *ejectment, or in an action of trespass.
In the case of Foox's Lessee v. Franklin, a similar report has been
made, and affirmed. Indeed, such a report is more operative
than a verdict: for, a verdict in ejectment is not conclusive; but
when parties chuse to adjust their disputes amicably, they generally agree, that the award shall" be final; and, under such an
agreement, neither of them can hope again successfully to agitate
the same points.
Under this charge, the plaintiff suffered a nonsuit. (1)

Gander's Lessee v rsus Burns et al.
ECT IENT for lands in .fZifin county-. On the trial of
the cause, the'folowing general principles were stated in
the charge to the jury.
By the COURT: The first inquiry is, whether the location-and
warrant call for the same place. If they do, then as there is
ground enough to satisfy both, one shall not run away with .1
but shall be confined to what he purchased.
This is the rule in the board of property, and if Snedon's right-,
have not been abandoned nor transferred to Dearmond, it is the
rule that ought to be applied here.
Those rights do not seem to have been abandoned: for in
1761, the children were infants, and were hardly of age, when
this action was brought. Laches cannot, therefore, be imputed.
Whether Dearinondpurchased must be left to the jury: he
hail the receipt, and that is some ground for presumption added
to his own declarations, which, as they come on the part of the
plaintiff, are evidence.
But if the rights remain, then the next question is, how shall
the location and warrant be laid? This must be determined
either by the (1) description; or (2) by the prior improvement;
or (3) by th- priority of date.
As to the description, Snqder calls for Everhart as his boundary, and Foster for Buchanan, at opposite ends of the whole
k1) Decicd at Xss Privus, G(r'!tti, C.i,:zide-ia,." county, in Aray 1702.
tract,

S

E E COURT OP PENNSYLVANrA.

tract: so that, it would seem, one might begin on one quarter,
and another on the other quarter, till they meet.
But if the priority of improvement is clear, that being the spot
designed by the improver, ought, perhaps, to be assigned to him.
It no other rule can be taken, the priority of date, ought to
give the preference to the party whose warrant is oldest, to lord
it as he chuses.
Verdict f6r the plaintiff, &c.

Massey et al. Executors of Massey versus Learning. (1)

D

EBT. Plea, payment, with leave to give the will of testatrix
in evidence.
The case was, simply, this: Mrs. -assey, the testatrix, was
in a low state of health for some time before her death; the defendant took the charge of her affairs, and had some accounts
against her; but he borrowed 1501. from her, for which he gavb
a bond payable in one year, with interest. On the 5th of Yune
1784, she made her will, which was proved on the 21st of June,
containing, among other things this bequest: " I give to T.
Leaming, in consideration of his many services to me, 2001. in
real specie; provided he brings no account against me and my
estate; and if he happen to bring any account against me, or my
estate, then this bequest to be -'oid;" with a devise over of the
testatrix's estate. The legacy was paid tq T. Learning; the
present action was brought upon his bond; and the question of
law arose, whether the bequest operated as a rele.ise?
The plaintiff's counsel suggested, that they were ready to
prove, that there was a deficiency of assets to pay debts.
Upon this suggestion, it was agreed, that a verdict be given
for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the Court whether the
bequest was an extinguishment of the debt? If it was so considered, then the plaintiff shall be at liberty to prove a deficiency
of assets, for the payment of debts.
After depending for a great period on the docket, the suit
was, finally, marked " not to be brought forward."
Tilghman and Levy, for the plaintiff.
Sergeant, for the defendant.
(I)Tried at Nisi Prius, iladp!da county, in qa;,
1792

123
1792.

