SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1802.
Attorney-General versus The Grantees under the act of

O

April 1792.

N the 2d of April 1802, an act of the general assembly was
passed, entitled " An Act to settle the coi troversies aris" ing from contending claims to land, within that part of the ter" ritory of this commonwealth north and west of the rivers Ohio
" and Aleghany, and Conewango creek," (5 State Laws, 153.)
by which the Judges of the Supreme Court were directed to devise an issue, for trying the following questions, at Sunbury, in
Worthumberland county:
Ist. Are warrants heretofore granted under the act of the 3d
of April 1792, valid and effectual in law against this commonwealth, so as to bar this commonwealth from granting the same
land to other applicants under the act aforesaid, in cases where
the warrantees have not full and fairly complied with the conditions of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by
the said act, at any time before the date of such warrants respectively, or within two years after?
2d. Are the titles that have issued from the land-office, under
the act aforesaid, whether by warrant or patent, good and effectual in law against this commonwealth, or any person claiming
under the act aforesaid, in cases where such titles have issued on
the authority and have been grounded upon the certificates of two
justices of the peace, usually called prevention certificates, without any other evidence being given of the nature and circumstances of such prevention, whereby, as is alleged, the conditions
of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by the said
act, could not be complied with?
The judges, having devised and published the form of a feign.
ed issue, on a wager, to try these questions; having given public
notice.

238

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED

1802.
'-

'

IN THE

notiec, that all parties interested in the issue would be heard at
the trial; and having settled and prescribed the other necessary
proceedinsg; three of them (YEATES, StITH, and BRACKENustices) assembled at Sunbur#, on the 25th of November
RIDGE,
1802; when a jury was impanneled, and the case argued, by the
Attorney-General (lI PKean) TV. Tilghman, and Cooper, for the
commonwealth, in the negative of the propositioris contained in
the questions; but no counsel appeared to argue, in the affirmative. (1) On the next day, the presiding Judge delivered the following charge to the jifry:
YEATES,
(1) The reasons, for not embracing this opportunity to discuss the subject,
are assigned by the counsel of the Holland company, in a letter addressed to

the Judges of the Supreme Court:

CcGentlemen..
Having attentively considered the suggestions which were made esterday1 during the conference at the chambers of the Chief ffustice, on the subject
of the act of the general assembly, passed at the last session, with a view to
settle the controversies arising fromi contending claims to lands north and west
of the rivers Ohio and Alligliany, and corewingo creek, we beg leave briefly
td submit the result, as a justification for the advice that will be given to our
clients.
1st. Although the Hollandcompany and their counsel cannot approve theterms of the preamble of the act, by which the legislature has undertaken to
declare the meaning and construction of the original contract (the very point
in controversy) and though they cannot admit the right or propriety of dictat.
inganey, and, perhaps, unconstitutional mode, of settling ajudicial question,
withoutthe assent of all the parties in interest; yet they fRl the importance
of an early decision, and would cheerfully concur in : .tyform bf'proceeding,
by which the merits of the case could be fully and fairly investigated and decided.
"c2d.The merits of the case on the part of the )olland company, as disclosed
to the Supreme Court on the motion for a mandamus, and as presented to the
legislature,* evidently involve the foUouing considerations: 1st. Whether the
company have complied with the condition of the 9th section of the act of
.4pril1792? 2d. Whether the reasons assigned for a non-compliance with the
condition, bring their case -ithin the proviso? 3d. Whether the proviso ope.
rates upon cases that are brought within its terms, to discharge the conditiola
entirely, or only to enlarge the time for performing it! 4th. Whether the cornpany have so persisted in their endeavours to perform the condition, as to be
still
within the benefit of the proviso! And, 5th. Whether the government, by
prescribingthe evidence,on which patents had atually issued, in cases brought
within the proviso, could now take advantage of the forfeiture, for a supposed
non-compliance with the original condit;on!
" d. But the questions which the legislature has proposed are the followlowing: 1st. Are warrants heretofore granted under the act of the 3d day of
April 1792, valid and effectual in law against this commonwealth, so as to bar
this commonwealth from granting the"same land to other applicants under the
act aforesaid, in cases where the warrantees have not fully and fairly complied
with the conditions of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by
the said act, at any time before the date of such warrants respectively, or
within two vears nfter! 2d. Are the thles that have issued from the land-oflice
under the act aforesaid, whether by warrant or patent, good and effedtual in
law against this commonwealth, or any person claiming under the act afore.aid, in cases where such titles have issued on the authority, and have been
grounded upon the certificates of two justices of the peace, usually called
prevention certificates," without any other c :dence beinggiven of the na' ire, and circunistan,-es of such prevci ton, u hereby, as is aleged, the conditions

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA2

239

YEATES, r.ustice. That the decision of the Court and jury on 1802.
the present feigned issue should "settle the controversies arising L-r-i
" from contending claims to lands north and west of the rivers
" Ohio and Alleghany, and Coneivango creek," is an event devoutly to be wished for by every good citizen. "It is indispensably necessary that the peace of that part of the state should
"be preserved, and complete justice done to all parties interested, as effectually as possible." (Close of Preamble to the Act of
2d of April 1802, p. 155.)
We have no hesitation in declaring, that we are not without
our fears, that the good intentions of the legislature, expressed.
in the law under which we now sit, will not be effected. We
hope we shall be happy enough to acknowledge our. mistake
hereafter.
It is obvious that the validity of the claims of the warrantholders, as well as of the'actual settlers, must depend upon the true
and correct construction of the act of the "3dof April 1792, considered as a solemn! contract between the commonwealth and
each individual.The circumstances attehdant on each particular case, may vary
the general legal conclusion in many instances.
'Ae proceed to the discharge of the duties enjoined on us by
the late act.
tions of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by the said act,
could not be complied with r These questions, in our opinion, exclude an investigation and dedision upon any other point than the following: 1st. Whether, if the Holland company have not performed the condition, on which the
warrants originally issued, within two years, though the residence could not be
completed till the expiration of five years, the state is bArred from granting
the same lands to other applicants? and, 2d. Whether patents having issued
on the evidence of prevention certificates alone, they are not void, so as to authorise the state to sell the same land to other purchasers?
"4th. On the first ofthese points, we observe; that it has never been contended, that the Hollandcompany have performed the condition-within two years;
but only, that the condition was discharged, or suspended, by the operation of
the proviso, on the facts of their case; particularly the fact thdt an lndia
war existed for several years, beyond the term of two years specified in
the act 6f assembly. And.on t'e second point, it is sufficient to say, that although the prevention certificate was-the evidence prescribed by the public.
officers, and ought, therefore, to be binding on the government, yet that even
waiving that objection, the patentees will be deprived of theit land, when
other satisfactory and legal evidence was, and is, in their power, to prove the
circumstances which entitled them to patents.
" Without recurring to the many other obvious objections to the form and
provisions of the act of assembly, we are confident that theview which has
been offered upon the subject, will justify our advising the Holland company
to decline becoming a partyto the suit proposed to be instituted; since, we re
peat,- a decision on the two abstract questiong proposed- by the legislature.
would still leave untouched and undecided, the great and essential part of t .' J. INGERSOLL,
(Signed)
controversy.
'C1hiladcdpU.i-, y,, .t 24, 180:

"W. LEWIS,
"A. T DALLAS.

240
1802.

.-.~--.i

CASES RULED AND ADJUDED) IN THE

The first question proposed to our consideration is as follows:
Are warrants heretofore granted under the act of the 3d of
April 1792, valid and effectual in law against this commonwealth,
so as to bar this commonwealth from granting the same land to
other applicants under the act aforesaid, in cases where the warrantees have not fully and fairly complied with the conditions of
settlement, improvement, and residence, required by the said act,
at any time before the date of such warrants respectively, or within two years after?,
It well be proper here to observe, that on the motion for the
mandamus to the late secretary of the land-office, at the instance
of the Holland company; the members of this Court, after great
consideration of the subject, were divided in their opinions. The
Chief fustice seemed to be of opinion, that if the warrantee was
by force of arms of the enemies of the UnitedStates, prevented
"from making an actual scttlement, as described in the act, or
"was driven therefrom, and should per-sist in his endeavours to
"make such actual settlement thereafter," it would amount
to a performance of the condition in law. Two of us (YEAT S
and SnITH) thought, that in all events, except the death of the
party, the settlement and residence contemplated by the act,
should precede the vesting of the complete and absolute estate,
and that "1every warrant-holder should cause a settlement to be
"made on his lands within two years next after the date of the
-. warrant, and a residence thereon for five years next following
"the first settlement, on pain of forfeiture, by a new warrant;
but if, nevertheless, he should be interrupted or obstructed by
•the force of the enemy from doing ibose acts within the limited periods, and should afterwards persevere in his efforts in a
"reasonable time after the removal of such force, until these ob"tjects should be accomplished, no advantage shall be taken of
him, for the want of a successive continuation of his settle"ment."
To this opinion Judge BRACKENRIDGE subscribes.
It would ill become us to say, which of these constructions is
entitled to a preference. It is true, that in the preamble of the
act of the 9d of April 1802, (p. 154.) it is expressed, that " it
appears from the act aforesaid, (3d of April 1792) that the commonwealth regarded a full compliance with those conditions of
-' settlement, improvement, and residence, as an indispensable
part of the purchase, or consideration, of the land itself." But
t is equally certain, that the true test of title to the lands in question must be resolve(. into the legitimate meaning of the act of
1792, extr-act1'l ex viceribus suis, independent of any leg;s atve
•xposition thereof. I adhere to the opinion which I torme-ly
,1eli\'ered in Bank; yet, if a different interpretation of the law
mhall be made by Courts of a competent jurisdiction in the dernier
,isort, I shall be bound to acquiesce, though I may not be able
to diange my sentiments. If the 'neanip:g of th, fhrt question
be,
"

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

be, are titles under warrants issued under the law of the 3d of 18)2.
April 1792, for lands north and west of the rivers Ohio and Al- t r.
leghany, and £oneivango creek, good and available against the
commonwealth, so as to bar the granting of the same land to
other applicants, where the warrantees have not fully and fairly,
complied with the conditions of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by the law, at any time before, or within two
years after, the dates of the respective warrants, in time of profound peace, when thcy were not preventedfrom making such actual settlement by force of arms of the enemies of the United
States, or reasonable and well-grounded fear of the enemies of
the United States? The answer is ready in the language of the
acts before us, and can admit of no hesitation.
" No warrant or survey for those lands shall vest any title, tin"less the grantee has, prior to the date of such warrant, made,
"or caused to be made; or shall within the space of two years
"next after the date of the same, make, or cause to be made, an
" actual settlement thereon, by clearing, &c. and in default there"of, it shall and may be lawful to and for the commonwealth to
"issue new warrants to other actual settlers for the said lands, or
"any part thereof, &c." (Act of the 3d of April 1792, sec. 8.) For
"the commonwealth regarded a full compliance with the condi"tions of settlement and residence as an indisputable part of the
"purchase or consideration of the lands so granted." (Preamble
to Act of 1802.)
But if the true meaning of the question be, Whether under all
given, or supposed, circumstances of peace or war, of times of
perfect tranquillity, or imminent danger, such warrants are not
ipso facto void and dead in law, ze are constrained to say, that
our minds refuse assent to the general affirmative of the proposition. We will exemplify our ideas on this subject. Put the case,
that a warrant taken out early in 1792, calls for an island, or describes certain land, with accuracy and precision, by the course
of waters, or other natural boundaries, distant from any military
post, and that the warrantee, after evidencing the fullest intentions of making an actual settlement on the lands applied for, by
all the necessary preparation of provisions, implements of husbandry, labourers, cattle, &c. cannot, with any degree of personal
safety, seat himself on the lands within two years after the date
of the warrant, and by reason of the just terror of savage hostilities? Will not the proviso in the 9th section of the act of the
3d of April 1792, excuse the temporary non-performance of an
act, rendered highly dangerous, if not absolutely impracticable,
by imperious circumstances, over which he had no controul?
Or: Suppose another warrant, depending, in point of description, on other leading warrants, which the district surveyor, either
from the state or the countr%, the hurry of the business of his
office, or other cause-, could not surve, until the two years were
VoL. IV.
I
nearly

242

CASES RULED

AmD

ADJUDGED IN THE

1802. nearly expired, and the depredations of the Indians should interLr
vene for the residue of the term, will not- this also suspend the
operation of the fdrfelture? Nothing can be clearer to us, than
that the terms of the proviso" embrace and dad such cases; and
independent of the strong expressions made use of, we should
require strong proof to satisfy our minds that the legislature
could possibly mean to make a wanton sacrifice of the lives of
her citizens.
It is said in the books, that conditions rendered impossible by
the act of God, are void. Salk. 170. 2 Co. 79. b. Co. Lit. 206.
a. 290 b. 1 Roll. Abr. 449. 1. 50. 1 Fonb. 199.
B-dt conditions precedent must be strictly performed to make
the estate vest, and though become impossible, even by the act
of God, the estate will not vest; aliter of conditions subseyuent.
12 Alod 183. Co. Lit. 218. a. 2 Vern. 839. 1 Ch. Ca. 129. 138.
Salk: 231. 1 Vern. 183. 4 .'od. 66. We desire to be understood
to mean, that the "prevention by force of arms of the enemies of
, the -UnitedStates," does not, in our idea, absolutely dispense
with, and annul the conditions of actual settlement, improvement,
and residence, -but' that it suspends the forfeiture by protracting
the limited periods. Still the conditions must be performed cy
pres, whenever the real terror arising from the enemy has susided, and he shall honestly persist in his endeavours to make
such actual'settlement, improvement, and residence, until the
conditions are fairly and fully complied with.
Other instances may 'be supposed, wherein the principles of
prevention may effectually be applicable. If a person, under the
pretence of being an actual settler, shall seat himself on lands,
previdusly warranted and surveyed .within the period allowed,
under a fair construction of the law, to the warrantee, for the
making his -settlement, withhold the possession, and obstruct him
from making his settlement, he shall derive no benefit from this
unlawful act. If the party himself is the cause, wherefore the
condition cannot be performed, he shall never take advantage.
Co. Lit. 206. Doug. 661. 1 Roll. Abr. 454. p1. 8. Godb. 76.
5 Vin. 246. pl. 25.
*We trust that-we have said enough to -convey our sentiments
on the first point. Our answer to the question, as proposed, is,
that such warrants may or may not be valid .:ad effectual in law
against the commonwealth, according to the several times and
existing facts accompanying such warrants. The result of our
-opinion, founded on our best consideration of the matter is, that
every case must de.pend on, and be governed by, its oWn pecu'liar -circumstances.
The second question for decision is, Are the titles that have
issued from the land-office under the act aforesaid, whether by
warrant or patent, good and effectual against the commonwealth,
or anyperson claiming under the act aforcsaid, in cases where
1uch

24T

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

such titles have issued on the authority, and have been grounded 1802.
on the certificates of two justices of the peace, usually called L-y-j
prevention certificates, without any other evidence being given of
the nature and circumstances of such prevention, whereby, as is
alleged, the conditions of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by the said act, could not.be complied with?
It was stated in evidence on the motion for the mandamus,
and proved on this trial, that the board of property being desirous of settling a formal mode of certificate, on which patents
might issue for lands north and west of the rivers Ohio and
Alleghany, and Conewango creek, required the opinion of Mr.
Ihgersoll,the then attorney-general thereon; and on due corisideration, a form was afterwards adopted on the 21st of December
1797, which was ordered to be published in the Pittsburgh ga.
zette, and patents issued of course, on the prescribed form being
complied with.
The received opinion of the supreme executive magistrate,
the attorney-general, the board of property, and of a respectable
part of the bar, (whose sentiments on legal questions will always
have great and deserved weight) at that da§, certainly was, that
if a warrant-holder Was prevented bV force of arms of the enemies of the United States from making his actual settlement,
within two years after the date of his warrant, and afterwards
persisted in his endeavours to make such settlement, that the
condition was extinguished and gone. Persistingin endeavours,
was construed to mean something; attempts, essays, &c.; but that.
did not imply absolute success, or accomplishment of the objects
intended to be effected. By some it was thought, that the endeayours wyere only to be commensurate as to the time of making the
actual settlement, and were tantamount, and shQuld avail the
parties," in the same manner as if the actual settlements had
been made and continued."
The decisions of the Court in Iorris'sLessee v. Neighman (1)
and others at Pittsburgh, .Afay 1799, tended to make the former
opinion questionable; and two of the justices of the Supreme
Court adopted a. different doctrine, in their judgment between
the Hollandcompany and Tench Cox. (2)
In the argument in that case, it was insifted by the counsel for
the plaintiffs, that the board of property in their resolves, and the
governor by his patent, represented the commonwealth pro ha.
vice; and that interests vested under them, which could not afterwards be defeated.
We cannot subscribe hereto. Tf the conditions of settlement,
improvement, and residence, are - 'ispensable at all events; they
become so by an act of the differ- branches of the legislature.
The governor who has a qualified negative in the passing.of laws,
.1) See ante. p. 209.

(2) See a;,t, p. 170.

cannot

244

CASES AIULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1802. cannot dispense with their injunctions; and it cannot be said that
L-y-.j this case falls within the meaning of the 9th section of the second
articlc of the constitution. " The governor shail have power to
"remit fines and forfeitures, and to grant reprieves and pardons
except in case of impeachment." It relates merdy to penalties consequent on public offences. Nor can it be pretended that
the board of property, by any act whatever of their own, can derogate fiom the binding force of law. But the fact is, an intention of dispensing with the law of 1792, cannot with any degree
of justice be ascribed to the governor, or board of property, ior
the time being. They considcred themselves in their different
functions virtually discharging their respective duties, in carrying the act into execution, according to the gtneral received
opinion of the day; they never intendgd to purge a forfeiture if
it had! really accrued, nor to excuse the non-performance of a condition if it had not been complied with; agreeably to the public
will expressed in a legislative contract.
The rule of law is thus laid down in England. A false or partial suggestion by the grantee of the king to the king's prejudice,
whereby he is deceived, will make the grant of the king void.
Hob. 229. Cro. E. 632. Tel. 48. 1 Co. 44. a. 51. b. 3 Leon. 5.
2 Hawk. 398. Black. 226. But where the words are the words
of the king, and it appears that he has only mistaken the lan',
there he shall not be said to be so deceived to the avoidance of the
grant. Per Sir Samuel Eyre, 'fust. Ld. Ray. 50. 6 Co. 55. b.56 b. accord. But if any of the lands concerning which the question arises, became forfeited by the omission of certain acts enjoined on the warrant-holders, they do not escheat to the governor for the time being, for his benefit, nor can he be prejudiced
as governor by any grant thereof, they become vested in the
whole b6dy of the citizens, as the property of the commonwealth,
subject to the disposition of the laws.
Me are decidedly of opinion, that- the patents, and the prevention certificates recited in the patents, are not conclusive evidence
against this commonwealth,or any person claiming under the act of
3d of April 1792, of the patentees having performed the conditions
enjoined on them, although they have pursued the form prescribed by the land-officers. But we, also, think, that the circumstance
of recital of such certificates will not ipso Jhcto avoid and nullify the patent, if the actual settlement, improvement, and residence, pointed out by the law, can be established by other proof.
We must repeat on this head, what we asserted on the former,
that every case must be governed by its own peculiar cirrumstances. Until the facts really existing, as to each tract of land,
are ascertained with accuracy, the legal conclusion cannot be
drawn with any degree of correctness. Ex facto oritur jus.
2d. Here we feel ourselves iiresistiblv impelled to mention a
difficulty, which strikes our minds forcibly. Our reflections on the
suhiet

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

subject have led us to ask ourselves this question on our pillows:

245
1802.

What would a wise, just, and independent, chancellor decree on t.-N-the last question? Executory contracts Are the peculiar objects of
chancery jurisdiction, and can be specifically enforced by chancery alone. Equity forms a part of our law, says the late Chief
Justice truly. I Doll. 213.
If it had appeared to such a chancellor, by the pleadings, or
other proofs, that the purchase money had been fully paid to the
government by the individual for a tract of land, under the law
of the 3d April 1792; that times of difficulty and danger had intei-

vened; that sums of money had been expended to effect an actual,
settlement, improvement, and residence, which had not been accomplished fully; that by means of an unintentional mistake, on
the part of the state-officers, in granting him his patent (the officers
not led to that mistake by any pecies of fraud or deception on
the part of the grantee) he had been led into an error, and hlled
into a confidence, that the conditions of the grant had been legally
complied with, and, therefore, he had remitted in his endeavours
therein: Would not he think, that under all these circumstances,
thus combined, equity should interpose and mitigate the rigid law
of forfeiture, by protracting the limited periods? And would it
not be an additional ground of equity, that the political state of
the country has materially changed since 1792, by a surrender of
the western posts to the government of the United States, and
peace with the Indian nations, both which render an immediate
settlement bf the frontiers, in some measure, less necessary than
heretofore?
But it is not submitted to us to draw the line of property to
these lands; they must be left to the cool and temperate decisions of others, before whom the questions of tide may be agitated: We are confined to the wager on the matters before us;
and on both questions 7le have given you our dispassionate sentiments, formed on due reflection, according to the best of our
judgment. We are interested merely as common citizens, whose
safety and happiness is involved in a due administration of the
laws. We profess, and feel, an ardent desire, that peace and tranquillity should be preserved, to the most remote inhabitants of
this commonwealth.
The jury found a general verdict in favour of the attorneygeneral, on the feigned issue; and judgment was rendered in
these words: " Whereupon it is considered by the Court here,
" that the said attorney-general do recover of the said grantees,
"his damages, costs, and charges, aforesaid, amounting in the
"whole to two hundred dollars and six cents, and the Court ac" cordingly render judgment thereon for the plaintiff, subject.to
" the proviso in the 9th section of the act of assembly, passed the
"third day of April 1792."

