SUPREME .CouRT OP THE UNITED STATEB.

a joinder in error entered here. The rule was, therefore, changed
to the following: " that unless the plaintiffs in error appear and
argue the errors to-morrow, a non-pros. be entered." The plaintiffs
not appearing, the writ of-error was non-prossed, according to the
rule.

Turner, Administrator, versus Enrille.

E RROR
from the Circuit Court of South-Carolina. The record, as abridged for the Judges, presented the following
case:
" The Marquis de Caso Enrille instituted an action on the case
against Thomas Turner, the administrator of Wright Stanley,
in the Circuit Court of North-Carolina,of Yune term 1795.
", A declaration in case was filed ' by the Marquis de Caso
Enrille, of
in the island of
' of 7une term 1796,
in which it is set forth, that Wright Stanley (the intestate) and
John Wright Stanley and Yames Greene were ' merchants and
part-ers at Newberin in the said district? that Wright Stanley
survived the other partners; that on the 4th of iune 1791, in the
lifetime of all the partners, they were indebted ' unto the said
Marquis in
dollars;' and in consideration thereof, assumed
to pay, &c. The 2d count insimul computassent, when the said
partners 'Iwerefound in arrearto the said Marquis in other
dollars,' &c. The plaintiff concludes with the usual averments of
non-payment, 'to the damage of the saidMarquis
dollars' &c.
" On the 30th of November 1796, the defendant appeared, and
pleaded, 1st. Non assumpsitintest. Replication and issue. 2d. The
statute of limitations as to the intestate: Replication, an account
currentbetween merchant andfactor. Rejoinder and issue. 3d. Set-,
off, that the plaintiff was indebted'to the intestate, on the 1st of
January 1792, in more than the damages by the plaintiff sus.
tainedi &c. to wit, in 4000 dollars, for money had and received
by the plaintiff to the intestate's use, which sum is still due to the
defendant, as administrator. Replicition that .plaintiff csved nothing, &c. Rejoinder asid issue. 4th. The statute of limitations
as to the administrator. Replication that the demand was made
within three years, &c. Rejoinder and issue. 5th. Plene administravit. Replication assets. Rejoinder and issue.
" On the 1st of 7une 1199, the issues were tried, a verdict was
given on all the 'issues for the plaintiff, and the jury assessed
damages at 3289 65 dollars. Judgment for damages, costs and
charges;
" Writ of error. Errors assigned:- 1st. That it does not appear
on the pleadings,&c. that either plaintiff or defendant was an alien
or that they were citizens of different Itates. 2d That there are
blanks in the declaration for places, dates, and suins. 3d. The
general erwrors. Plea, In nullo e.st erratum. Replication and issue."
For

r'.

3

CAsE s RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THP

1799.
For the defendant in error, Dallas lamented the obvious irre.
L
gularities on the face of the record, though the merits were incontestably established in his favour, by the verdict and judgment.
He thought, however, that the Court would give every reasonable intendment to the allegations of the record, in support of the
judgment and verdict; and, therefore, endeavoured to distinguish
the present case from the case of Bingham v. Cabot et al. 3 Dall.
Rep. 382. In Bingham v. Cabot et a!. the defendant's place of
residence was not even stated; here the defendants are stated
to be merchants of Newbern, in the district of North-Carolina.
There the plaintiffs were described generally of MAfassachusetts,
&c.: here the plaintiff is described specially of an island; and the
cause of action is found to arise on accounts between merchant and
factor. It has not been judicially decided that the averment of
alienage, or of citizenship of different states, as a foundation for
the federal jurisdiction, must be positive; and it is sufficient, in
reason, if circumstantial evidence of the fact can be collected from
the record. As to the blanks in the declaration, in relation to the
sums, Dallas requested an opportunity to consider how far the
defect was cured by the verdict, or might be amended, if the
Court was not decisively against him on the first point.
Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, observed, that the case was
so very desperate, that it had been virtually abandoned by the opposite counsel. He should, therefore, decline troubling the Court.
By the COURT. The decision in the case of Bingham v. Cabot et
al. must govern the present case. Let the judgment be reversed
with costs.

Turner, Administrator of Stanley, Plaintiff in Error, versus
the President, Directors, and Company, of the Bank of

North-America, Defendants.

E

RROR from the Circuit Court of North-Carolina. This was

an action upon a promissory note drawn, in Philadelphia,
by Stanley, the intestate, in favour of Biddle & Co. and indorsed
by Biddle & Co. to the bank of North-America. The declaration
(which contained only a count upon the note itself) stated, that
the president and directors of the bank were citizens of the
state of Pennsylvania; and that Turner the administrator, and
Stanley, the intestate, were citizens of the state of North-Carolina; but of Biddle & Co. the payees, and indorsers of the note,
there was no other designation upon the record, than "that they
used trade and inerchandize in partnership together, at Philadelphia, or North-Carolina." The error assigned, and insisted upon,
to wit, an insufficient description of Biddle & Co. was founded

on

