155

CAsxs RULED AID ADJTDGED, &C,

vice of the declaration in ejectment upon the defendant, was a 1798;
'commencement of the suit within six months, according to the '-,-'
spirit and intention of the law; that the declaration was the only
process in ejectment; 2 Sell. Pr. 164. tl)at it might be served on
the tenant himself, in any place; though if the service was on a
165.
wife, or servant, it must be on the premises; 2 Cromp. -Pr.
Runn. Eject. 155. that the sheriffs of the several covnties were
now obliged, by law, to serve declarations in ejectment; 3 State
Laws, 170. s. 10. Dal. Edit. that the return is the certificate of
the sheriff, stating what has been done touching the execution of
the writ; Compi. Sheriff, 144. Dall. 162. and that the proceedings of a special bailiff, being recognised by lair, as a competent
person to serve the process in ejectment, must be as effectual as
the proceedings of the sheriff.
After consideration, the COURT were of opinion, that the
cjectment was well brought, within the six months allowed by
the.act of assembl,: and ordered that the rule to show cause be
discharged.
Rule discharged.

Keppele et at. versus Carr et al.
Carr et al. versus Keppele et al.

T

HE case was, briefly, this: Kepple and Zantzinger, Phila-"
deiphia merchants, being indebted to Carr and Sons, English merchants, for goods sold and delivered, bought a bill of
exchange from (tohn S-wamvich for the amount, drawn in their
favour and indorsed by them; delivered the bill to one of the
partners of Carr and Sons, who was in Philadelphia, but whp
expressly refused to remit it, on the account and risque of
his house; and informed Carr and Sons by'letters, dated, respectivelv, the 20th of aiy, and 20th of june 1796, "that the
" bill, wihen paid, will be in full for merchandize (high cbarged)
" to ourG. Keppeh',by your invoice dated the 31st ofY.March 1795."
The bill was duly presented and protested for non-acceptance,
on the 27th of juzne, and for non-payment, on the 29th of August
1796; and, on its being returned, with the protest, n6tice was regularIy given to the drawer and indorsers. Keppele and Zant;zinger then (about the 5th of Novembcr 1796) tendered to Carr
the principal and interest of the bill, and demanded restitution
of it, with the protest; but Carr refused to accepx the tender, or
to deliver up the bill; saying "that he would settle the bill him" self with Swanzvick:" whereupon Zantzinger declared,
We
*
" shall consider the bill at your risque, from this day." Carr
then entered into an arrangement with Swanivick, took his
promissory note for principal, damages, and charges, and delivered to him the bill and protest. Before the note became due,

S'7anLick

156

CAss RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE:

1798. Szvannzvick had failed; and Carr demanded pntyment from Keppete and Zantzing'er, on the footing of the original account for
goods sold. On the other hand, KAeppee and Zantzinger dema-nded ifrom Carr, the twenty per cent. damage s, included in
.Swanzvich's note, with interest from the date of the note. And,
upon tiRse adverse claims, the present actions were instituted,
and tried at the same time.
At the trial of the cause, three grounds were taken in favour
of Carr and Sons: ,st. That the language of the lettu rs, written
b) Kqp'pelc and Zantzinger, was not meant to retain an interest
in the !,il!
of t-xchangc; but to preserve, unimpaired, the original
CoItract, ilthe bill was not honoured; cr, at most, to protect
them, as indorsers, from being liable for damages; but not to
enutde them to receive any. Carr and Sons had a complete
power over the bill; they might have cancelled it after acceptance,
for the a:-ceptor's note; or the) might have released it upon any,
or no consideration to the drawer's agent in England; the only
effect of which would be, to render the bill payment of the preceding debt, as in fwats v. Willing, 2 Dall.Rep. 100. And Chapman v. Steininetz, 1 Dai. ep. 261. differs from this case; because the suit i as there against the drawer of the bill, who was,
also, the original debtor, expressly stipulating, that he should
not be liable for dlamages; and here 6arr and Sops do not sue
.Keppele and Zantzinger on the bil, for damages. 2d. That
whatever might be the olieration of the original comract, the
claim of Keppele and Zantzinger to damages was extinguished,
when Zantzinger declared, that " the bill would be considered
" for the future, at the risque of Carr ani Sons;?' changing essentially the relative responsibility of the parties. 3d. That the
stit brought by Keppele and Zantziwer, for the dam-ges, was a
disaffirmance of any implied contract, that the bill of exchange
was paid, or received, in satisfaction of the preccdent debt; and,
consequently, Carr and Sons are entitled to recover upon the okl
accou-t, whatever may be their responsibility for the principal, as
welt as :h= damnigfs, of the bill. In that respect, too, Keppele and
Zcntziger have chosen to regard the m as agents; and can cnly
be en-ided to rcover, what Gazrr and Sons received, to wit,
Swanwek'.a promisbory note.
In favour of Keppele and Zantzinger, it was urged, 1st. That
the remittance ot wie bill oi excfhange was, by express stipulation,
upon their account, and at their risque; and the terms of the remittance came, pointediy, within the principle of Mattu v. Willing, and Cl7apnzan v. Steinmetz. Till the bill was paid in England;
or, in case of a protest, till it was recovered from the drawer
here, it was, exclusively, at the risque of Kepple and Zantzinger; and they, who were exposed to the whole risque were entitled, in law and equity, to the whole benefit of an indemnity.
2d. That

&PREXE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

151,

2d. That the declaration of Zantzinger, does not, either in the 1798.
intention, or the expression, amount to a waiver of the claim for
damages; nor can it, in any respect, impair, or alter, the conditional contract on which the remittance was made. 3d. That the
conduct of Carr and Sons has made the- bill of exchange an absolute fund fbr the payment of the precedent debt; and that debt
was eventually extinguished and satisfied, by taking Swanwick's
note: but their conduct creates no right to receive, more than
the amount of the precedent debt; and, consequently, they are
liable for the damages in one suit, though they cannot recover
upon the account, in the other suit.
(1) SHirPPE,
ustce. The sum in controversy is small; but
the principle of the decision, is of great and general importance.
What is the law, the justice, and the usage, upon the subject?
It appears from two cases, that have been cited (1 Dall. Rep.
261. 2 DalL. Rep. 100.) to be the settled law, that where a bill
of exchange is not paid and received, in satisfaction of a debt,
due from a merchant to his correspondent, it goes at the risque
of the debtor; and the creditor who remits it for acceptance and
payment, stands on the footing of an agent only, until the bill is
aczually paid. Then, in point of justize, it seems but fair, to allow every incidental, or casul, profit and emolument, to the party who is exposed to all the hazard and inconveniende of the remittance. As to the usage, the jury are best able to ascertain
it from personal experience; but so far as I have been able to
collect information, there appears to be only one opinion among
commercial men; to wit, that he is entitled to the damages, on
whose account and risque the bili of exchange is remitted. To
disturb this usage, would, obviously, operate very injuriously to
the Ancrican merchant, in favour of foreign merchants; but, if
the usage were not established, or if it were an unreasonable o ne,
our decision would not depend upon considerations of that nature: we should say,fat jistitia,ritat cwam!
Let us, then, consider the facts of the present case, under this
general view of the law, justice, and usage, of merchants. The
debt was due and payable in London. The creditor refused to
accept payment here, on account of the rate of exchange. The
immediate loss and expense of the remittance f'ell, therefore, on
the debtor, as well as the contingent risque of the bill. The creditor, also, refused to take the hazard of the remittance to himself; and, in effect, agreed to act as the agent of the debtor, in
all that related to the [)ill of exchange. There is not, in short,
the least doubt on this important fact, that the bill was remitted
on account of Kppel and Zantzinger, though indorsed by them
(1) The Judges difficring in opinion, each addressed the jury; but the chij
Yustlce, (n acc nt of indisposition, added only a few words, in aflirniance mt

the sentiments of -jt i Ppr-%, Ytust-

158

CASES RULED

ANm

ADjUDGED IN THE

1798. to Carr and Sons. When the bill returned protested, the debtor
Sdemanded it, tendering the amount of principal mad interest; but
this overture to a payment was peremptorily rejected by Carr;
and he assumed the sole management of settling the business with
Sivanvick. Whether it was settled by a cash payment, or by a
promissory note, is not material; the bill being delivered up
without the authority, or consent, of Kppele and Zantzinger;
and Carr and Sons becoming, consequently, responsible to them,
for the full value of their interest in the bill. That interest was
the amount of the danages, on the principles, which have already
been suggested; particularly, because Keppele and Zantzinger
defrayed the whose expense, and run the whole risque, of the remittance. Suppose, produce had been shipped to Carr and Sons,
to be sold on account of the shippers, but the proceeds were to
be applied to the payn.ent of their debt, could it be pretended, that
the consignees would be entitled to any profit on the sale; or that,
in case of a loss, it must be borne by them? No: in that instance,
and I think, with a parity of reason, in the instance before the
Court, Carr and Sons are neither to know profit nor loss, in the
transaction. It is surely enough for the British merchant, to enjoy the fair profit charged upon the goods, which he sells and
transmits to his American customers; without being allowed to
speculate upon the damages on bills of exchange, the usual medium for paying his account, in a way, that enables him to pocket
all the gain, and to cast upon. them- all the loss.
Injustice to Carr and Sons, however, it is proper to take notice of another ground, on which their cause has been placed;
the only ground, indeed, that has created any doubt, or difference,
in the minds of the Judges. On the 5th of November 1796, when
they refused to accept a tender of principal and interest, Keppele
and Zantzinger made a declaration, which, at the first view,
looked as if they relinquished every pretension to the bill of exchange: " We shall consider the bill as at your risque from this
day." This expression, however, cannot, in law, be regarded ais
constituting a new contract, or agreement; for, cert-ainly there
was no mutuality of bargain; no coincidence of proposition and
assent: 'But it may, in point of fact, be regarded as an extinguishment of the conditional terms of the remittanqe; as an abandonment of all claim upon the bill of exchange; a fact which the jury must decide. It appears to me, however, that if law, justice,
and usage, had previously vested the right to damages in Kepple
and Zantzinger, it is too light, too equivocal, an expression, to
be construed into a waiver of that right; particularly, when it may
with, at least, equal propriety be consfrued to mean, that they
should consider Carr and Sons responsible, if Swanwick failed
in payment.
On the action by Carr and Sons, against Kepplele and Zant.
zinger, it is unnecessary to detain the jury with any explaniatory
remarks.

•SI'PREM£ COURT OF PENNSYLNANIA.

15.9.

Pemarks. The account was settled; and, by the conduct of the 1798.
plaintiffs, it has been completely paid, in law and justice.
SMITH, 7ustice. I concur in the opinion of n'v venerable
brother, as to the second action; and subscribe, indeed, to all
the general principles, which he has stated, in reference to the
first. But it is my misfortune to view in a different manner
from him, the important transaction of the 5th of November 1796:
for, whatever may have been the antecedent rights of Keppele
and Zantzinger, the conversation of that day, does, in my opinion, essentially change the situation of the parties. The bill was
thenceforth entirely at the risque of Carrand Sons; and if Swanwich had failed the very next day, before any arrangement for
payment, or before an laches in the endeavour to obtain payment, Cart and Sons could never have recovered from Keppele
and Zantzinter, either*on the original account, or on the indorsement of the bill. The risque of Keppele and Zantzinger being
thus at end, all their legal and equitable claim to the damages,
on account of risque, must, also, be extinct.
In an early stage of the transaction, too, I think there is some
fallacy in treating Carr and Sons merely as the agents of their
debtor, in relation to the bill of exchange. If they had lost, or
destroyed, it; if, on the protest, the diawer's friend had paid it
in London for his honour; or, if Cart and Sons, after an acceptance, had released the acceptor, with, or without, a consideration; surely, in none of these instances could a claim to twenty
per cent. damages arise; and all that Keppele and Zantzingei"
could insist upon in.law, justice, or usage, would be, that the bill,
under such circumstances, should be deemed a payment of their
debt, notwithstanding the conditional terms of the remittance.
In these sentiments, I am uninfluenced by any considration of
attachment to the American merchant, or of enmity to the British
merchant: and, I think, they will be found to conform best to the
honour of all merchants, N-hich, like the chastity of a female,
should be free from suspicion, as well.as free from taint.

M'KAN, Chief Yustice. U pon the ref usal of the tender in rovenber 1796,.Zantzingerdeclared, that the bill of exchange should
be at the risque of Carr and Sons for the future. The meaning
of this declaration, I understand to be (at least, it is a reasonable
interpretation) that Carr and Sons themselves should be answerable to .Keppelg and Zantzinger, for the principal, interest, and
damages) even if Swanwich should become insolvent. Under the
view of the case, I concur with my brother SiiiD.EN, in all his
remarks which lie has delivered to the jury.
Verdict for Ke.pele and Zantzinger in both actionr,
?'.
Ingersoll and Brinton, for Ktlte/e and Za.,tzh1e.'
Dallas, for Carr and Sonsz.

