SUPRE

x COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

455

They have full power to see that sales are made fairly, and with 1806.
due notice, and to exact security from the administrator, in proportion to the increased funds which may come to his hands.
These precautiors, assisted by the attention of the creditors to
their own interest, will, I flatter myself', produce sales to the greatest advantage, and faithful application of their proceeds.
MV opinion is, that the defendant, the purchaser at the sale
ordered by the Orphan's Court, holds the hind, discharged from
the plaintiff's judgment.
YEATES, yustice, who was present at the argument, informed
the chief justice that he concurred with this opinion; and
BRACKENRID GE, Yustice, expressed his concurrence, generally.
Judgment to be entered for the defendant.

Morgan et al. versus The Insurance Company of North
America.

T

HIS was an action upon a policy of insurance, on the freight
of the brig Amazon, valued at 3,500 dollars, upon a voyage
from Philadelphiato Surinam. The policy contained a warranty
of American property, and the usual clause against illicit trade. "
On the trial of the cause, before the chief justice, at N.isi Prius,
in Yulq 1806, it appeared that upon the 7th of August 1799,
when Surnarm was in possession of the Dutch, the vessel sailed
on the voyage insured, and arrived at the river of Surinam, on
the 17th of September following; that the brig was detained at the
entrance of the river, by the commander of the British fbrt, who
informed the captain, that the colony of Surinam had been in possession of the British forces about twenty days; that the captain,
and a passenger of the name of 7. G. Richter (who was an inhabitant of Surinam, and to whom the cargo was deliverable there,
on his paying 25,310 dollars, in pursuance of a contract with the
plaintiffs, Morgan and Price)proceeded to the town of Paramanto,
and the cargo was there tendered and agreed to be accepted by
Richter; who gave security for paying the stipulated price, as soon
as possible after the delivery, in conformity to the contract.
On the 19th-of September, the'governor of the colony gave permission for the brig to be brought up to. town, where she, accordingly, arrived the'next day, for the purpose of discharging her
cargo; that on reporting, however, to the custom.house, the collector declared, that he would not permit any article to be'landed,
excepting the provisions, (which did not amount to more than
one-eighth of the cargo) and that .permission to land the cargo
generally, was repeatedly solicited by the captain, but reftused by
the governor; in consequence of which, it was brou.ght back to
Philadelphia.

456

CAsEs RULDD AND ADJUDGED IN TUE

1806.

Phtladelphia. Upon these facts, related in the captain's protest (1)

Jthe plaintiffs abandoned, and claimed for a total loss of the freight

insured. And it was agreed- to state them in a case, for the
opinion of the Court.
The general question was, whether the plaintiffs were entitled
to recover, either for 'a total, or for a partial, loss of fi-eight?
And the solution was considered, by the counsel on both sides,
as depending upon the inquiry, whether the freight had bcen
earned, in whole, or in part; and if not, whether the loss was occasioned by a.peril enumerated in the policy.
For the plaintif. By the bill of lading, the master is obliged to
deliver the goods, (the danger of the seas only excepted) and
freight is only payable on the delivery. Beawes, Lex lkerc. 137.
Ab. 179. 183. If a foreign government prevents a landing of the
cargo, it prevents an earning of the freight, by an arrest, restraint,
and detainment; as much, surely, as in the decided case, of the
foreign government refusing to permit a cargo to be shipped, for
which the vessel was sent. 3 Bos. andPull. 295. 8 T. Repl. 267. 1
Brown!. 21. 7 T. Rep. 385. Abbot, 261. 3 Bac. 610. Lex .Merc.
267. Park, 292. 3 Rob. Rep. 152, S. 7 7. Repi. 383. 2 Vern. 176.
Perot v. Penrose, in Supreme 6'ourt of Pennsylvania. A policy
on goods continues in force till the goods are landed. 1 Mlarsk.
162. and all policies should be liberally construed, for the benefit
of trade. Ibid. 164., 5. Inthe present case, there is no proof of the
delivery of the cargo at STurinanz; but, on the contrary, it appears,
that Richter agreed to pay for it, as soon as possible after it was
delivered; and as the delivery depended upon the landing, it is
virtually disproved by the evidence, that the governor always refused to grant a permit for the landing.
For the defendant. On the evidence, there was an arrival of tha
vessel at her port of discharge; and the tender and acceptance of
the delivery of the cargo, entitled the owner to his freight. The
owner of the ship was not bound to procure a permission to land
zhe goods. Besides, it is.not denied, that seamen's wages were
paid; and xwgcs are never payable, but in cases where the freight
is earned. But even the Toss, if established, was not occasioned
by a peril insured against. There was no arrest, no restraint, no
detainment; but merely the refusal of a right of entry. Ord. L. 14.
1 V l. 656. Art. 15. lb. 626. Art. 7. Doug. 622. 626, 7. Potli. 60.
.v. 69. 2 March. 434., 5, 6, 7. 1 Marsh. 162. 164, 5. Ab. 161. 2
Br'r. 887.
(1) When the protest was oflt.'i- to be read, the defendant's counsel ohserved, that the Circuit Court ofthe Uudce! States had refused to admit thcprotest in evidence, and submitted the competency of' such evidence on the
present occasion. But by the Co-URT, The practice of P1nn.,vyemnia has been
long settled. The protest has invariably been received as e-idecme in thue state
Cburts:

SOPREME

COURT o0 PENNSYLVANIA.

41W

The chief justice delivered the following opinion, in which 1866.
justice, concurred.

BRACKENRIDG_.

TILcGMAN, Chief-justice. This is an action on a policy of
insurance on freight of the brig Amazon, from Philadd/hia to

Surinam, valued at

3500

dollars.

The brig sailed from Philadelphiaon the 7th of Atugust 179?
with a carg6 consisting of provisions and merchandize, and arxived in the river Surinam, on the 17th of September following.
During the voyage, the colony of Surinam wag conquered by the
forces of th e king of GreatBritain. Permission was obtained from
the British commander, for the brig to go up to the to- i of Paramanto, and she arrived there with her cargo, on the 20th September. On her arrival, the captairr of the brig, in pursuance of
instructions from the owners, as well as in pursuance of an
agreement between the owners and a certain 7. A. Richter, who
was a passenger in the said brig, offered to deliver tlh. cargo to
the said Richter, upon his paying, or givibg security to pay,
25,310 dollars. Richter agreed to pay that sum as soon aspossiblp
after the delivery of the cargo, and actually gave good security
for the money. But the British colector of the customs, rerised
permission to land any article of the cargo, except the provisions,
nor could such permission be obtained, although repeated petitions
were presefited to the goveinment. The consequence was,-that the
cargo was not landed, and the captain entered his protest. The
brig r~mained at Paramnantotill the 2th of September. The plaintiffs were owners both of the brig and cargo.
The question is, whether the plaintiffs are entitled to recover
either for a total loss, or for a partial loss, on this policy?
The plaintiffs' counsel 'Contend, that they are entitled to recover
for a total loss; that the landing and delivery of the cargo, is an
essential part of the contract between the owner and freighter, and
not beingcomplied with,no part of the freight has been earned; and
that the circumstance of the same persons being owners of the brig
and cargo, is immaterial in a question between the assurers and
assured. On the other hand, the defendants' counsel say, that there
has been no loss, because the freight was completely earned..
No adjudged case, in point, has been cited on either side. The
defendants' counsel relied on the case of Blight v. Page. 3 B.,s.
and P1ll. 295. (not.) but I do not think that case applicable. The
owner of a vessel agreed to go to a certain port, and take in a
cargo of barley, to be carried on freight. Vvhen the vessel arrived
at the port, the defendant, could not furnish the cargo according
to his agreement, because the government refused to permit the
exportation of barley. The owner sued the d~fendant, for not comply ing with his 'contract, and recovered damages equal to the
amount of the freight. This only shews, that the interfi.rcncc of
the government did not txcuse the defendant frrm complying
with
f N'
VOL. IV.

CASES
U58 RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

t

1806. with his contract. The plaintiff had done every thing necessary on his part, and was prevented from earning his freight, by the
breach of contract on the part of the defendant. No.conclusion can
be drawn from this case, under what circumstances freight may
be earned, or not earned. For, it was not an action for the recovery
of freight, but of damages, for not -being. permitted to earn
freight.
But, although there is .no adjudged case, the subject has not
escaped the notice of writers on the marine law. In one of the
ordinances of Lewis XIV. (A. D. 1681) (1) it is declared, that

on a charter party to carry goods out and in, if, during the voyage,
the commerce is prohibited and the vessel returns, the outwaird
treight only is earned; and Valin, in his commentary on this article, says, the law is the same, if the vessel is freighted outward
only. These ordinances,and the commentaries on them, have been
received with great respect, in the Courts both' of Englknd. and
the United States; not as containing any authority in them'selves'
but as*evidence of the general marine law. Where they are.contradicted by judicial, decisions in our own corn try, they are'not
to be respected. But on points which have not hen decided;they
are woftby of great consideration. I am strongly inclined to adopt
the rule laid down by Vain, because I think it reasonable. The
owner of the ship has been in no fautt whatever. When he took
the goods on freight, there Was an open commerce between 1'lziladelphia ana .Surinam; the goods, were carried to. the port of
delivery; the -vessel waited there seven days, and the cAptaih

offered to deliver the, cargo to the consignee, wh6 refused to receive it. Nothing prevented it, but the prohibition of the British
government. It is not like the case of a vessel which is prevented
from entering the port of delivery, by a blockading squadron; fr
there the ,oyage is not performed, and it is impossible to say,
certainly, that it would have been safeJy performed, if there had
been no blockade. I think it most agreeable to reason and justice,
that the obtaining permission to land the cargo, should, in this
case, be considered as the"bisiness of the consignee. That being
established, it follows that the freight was earned.
Upon the wumoe ot this case, I 6m of oninion, that the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, either for a total or a partidl
loss.
(1) 1 Vol Ord. L&evig XIV. 66. Art. 15. title Frgt,-ctedy A6,ot..

