360

CasEs RDtLED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1802.
Knox et al. versus Greenleaf.

C

ASE. The defendant filed the folowing plea in abatement:
" The said eames. Greenleaf,who is impleaded by the addi.
'tion and description of a citizen of the-state of .lfariland by
"7ared Ingersoll, his attorney, comes and defends the'force and
fc injury, &c. and says, that he, long before the arrest in the present
" action, and at the same time, as well as twelve months preced"ing the said arrest, and continually afterwards, was, and yet is, a
" citizen of the state of Pennsylvania, having his permanent ,lomicil. and residence in tne said state, or district, or PennsylSvania, and not a citizen of the state of'lMaryland. And the
" said yames Greenleqf by his attorney aforesaid, further saith,
"that according to the constitution and laws of the UnitedStates,
"a citizen of Penn-yivania cannot be impleaded or compelled
"to answer, by another citizen of the same state, before the
"Judges of the Circuit Court, but only in the Courts of the
"state, having competent jurisdiction of the case. And this he
c is ready to verify: therefore he prays judgment, if he ought
to be compelled to answer the said William to the said plea in
" Court, &c."
The plaintiffs filed a replication, averring that the defendant
was a citizen of Maryland; and issue being thereupon joined, the
question was tried before GRIrITHs, and BAss*-T, Associate
7tdges, the CuiEr JUDGE declining, on account of a family connexion with the defendant, to take a judicial part in the cause.
Upon the evidence, it appeared, that the defendant was a native of Afasvathusetts; that he came to Philadelphiain 1796, and
purchased a valuable house in C'esnut-street,in which he lived,
until his pecuniary embarrassments and consequent-imprisonment
occurre in 1798; that his clerks and servants continued afterwards to live there, until the house was sold to Mr. Tilghman;
.that being discharged by the Pennsylvania insolvent acts in
iflarch 1798, he went to the southward, and returned to Philadelphia before the yellow fever of 1798 had subsided; that between the 5th of November 1798, and the 20th of .anuary 1799,
le applied to th'e legislature of Maryland, styling himself of-that
state, for the benefit of an insolvent act, in the nature of the
bankrupt lawsi that, on the 10th of 7anuary 1799, an act was
passed accordingly, in which he was described as "of Prince
George county," and by which it was provided, that the chancellor, before granting the benefit of the act, should be satisfied, by
competent testimony, 'that the defendant was, at the time of
pas sing the act, "a citizen of the UnitedStates,and of this state;,"
that

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA

361

DISTRICr.

that the defendant was discharged under this act, on the 30th of 1802.
Augus-t 1799; that he returned to Philadelphiain February 1800; k
that he removed from PRiladelphia to Northanipton county, in
rune of the same year, has paid taxes there, and has never left
the state since; and that he was arrested, in the present suit, on
the 20th of February 1801.
The principal point discussed, upon these facts, was, whether
"he defendant was a citizen ofPennsylvania, so as to exclude the
jurisdiction of the federal Court, the plaintiffs being themselves
citizens of that state? (1)
For the plaintiffs, it was contended, by ffloylan, that the defendant could only be regarded as an inhabitant, not as a citizen,
of Penns.ylvania; that he had represented and proved himself to
be a citizen of 3laryland,in August 1799, or he could not have
enjoyed the benefit of the act of that state; and thut he had not,
upon the most liberal calculation of time, resided in Pennsylvania long enough to acquire the- rights of permanent citizenship,
upon the principle of the constitution. 1 vol. Acts Cong. p. 55.
5-.11. Const. Penn. art. 3. s. 1.
For the defendant, it was contended, by Ing-ersoll and Dalkis,
that a citizen of one state, was, constitutionally, entitled to be a
citizen of every state; that the acts of congress prescribe a mode
for naturalizing aliens, but none fbr communicating the municipal rights of citizenship, io a citizen removing from one state to
another; that as to the naturalization of aliens, Pennsylvania
leaves the subject to the acts of congr'ess; and for the exercise
and enjoyment of every right of citizenship, her constitution only
stipulates, that the party shall be a citizen, shall have resided for
a specified time, and shall have paid taxes; that the three requisites must be complied with, in the case of a native, as well as of
an adopted, citizen, foi the purposes contemplated; that, being a
citizen, absence from the state does not disfranchise, except as
to the right of electing and being elected, which depends on residence, as well as citizenship; that a citizen of i7Iassaclusetts
coming into Pennsylvania, with a view to settle, acquiring real
estate, and paying taxes, is a citizen of Penmnylvania, to every
purpose, but that, of electing, or being elected, within the respective periods prescribed by tle constitution; and that the laws of
31hryland communicate, instanter, the rights of municipal citi(1) Thiz; aetion was brought ngaiinst Mr. Grec:!eaf, as i'ndor~er of notes is-ued by Ml.rriv and icholsom, mhich he had plcd.,.d ., sccurhy 1br his on n
notes, given to the plaintiff. 1-1is own notcs were dw hetoi'rel'C was discho-rged, under the insolvent act; but the notes, of which he was inclorsor, bedid not appear
caine due afterwards. This allbrded m:tter 1or *.'.1;1k1l11, bIM:
t. ited 4 T.
"i
to enter into the decision of the Cou:t. Th." plain:!; ,.;el
.'p. 714.

VOL. IV.

IA

7.enship.

3u.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1802. zenship, to a citizen going thither, from another state, without
L.,-.j impairing the p~rmanent domiciliated citizenship, to which he is
entitled in his own state. Const. art. 4. s. 1. 2 Dall. Rep. 370.
Const. Penn. art. 1. s. 3. 8. art. 2. s. 4. 8. art. 3. s. 1. art. 6.
s. 1. art. 9. s. 20, 21. 4 vol. State Laws, 332. s. 1. 1 Dall. Rep.
152.. 158. 24.L Mlfaryland Laws, 7uly 1779. ch. 6. Nov. 1789.
ch. 24. Nov. 1792. ch. 14. Nov. 1793. ch. 26.
The COURT were clearly of opinion, that the defendant was

entitled to be considered as a citizen of Pennsylvania; and the
jury found a verdict accordingly.
Verdict for the defendant.

