226

C

S

ES

RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1801.

Wainwright et al. versus Crawford.

T

HIS was an action on the case, brought by foreign merchants, against the defendant, to recover the amount of money lent to the captain, to pay for disbursements in repairing, and
supplying, his ship, in a foreign port. It was proved, by the evidence of the captain, that he had no funds belonging to his owner,
or to himself; and that.hc borrowed the money from the plaintiffs,
to make the necessary repairs- of the ship, for the prosecution of
her voyage.
Ofooylan, for the defendant, observed, that the power of the
master of a ship, extended no fatther, than to authorise him to
hypothecate the ship herself, in a foreign port, for absolute necessaries: but, he contended, that the master could not, under any
circumstances, personally bind the owners. Afoll. c. 1. 6. 2. s. 10.
s. 14. Beau-te's L. Nt. 95. 6. 1 .7. Rep. 2 Dall. Rep. 195.
1 Sall. 35. 2 1d. Raym. 984.
ingersoll and Franklin, for the plaintiis, insisted, that every
person who supplied a ship had a triple securit; to wit, the master, the owner, and" the ship; that, by the maritime law, the
master was the authorised agent of the owners, in foreign ports;
and that, independent of his power 'to bind the ship herself, he
might bind the owners personally, upon proof that the money, or
supplies, went to their*use. Cowp9. 636. 1 Vez. 443. 1 72. Rep.
73. 2 Vern. 643. 14 Vin. Abr. 300. p1. 9.
SHIPPEN, Chief Yustice. If the jury are satisfied (and the evidence is strong upon the point) that there was an actual necessity
for borrowing the money, to repair the ship, the plaintiffs ought
to recover. The lender is bound, it is true, to make due inquiry,
whether the repairs are necessary; and whether the captain has
effects in his hands, sufficiefit to defray the expense of repairing,
without resorting to a loan: but he is not bound to know, nor to
inquire, what is the state of the accounts, between the owner and
the captain. If, therefore, the case of necessity existed; and the
plaintiffs did not know (for,we fix on their knowledge as the test)
that the.captain had sufficientfunds, in possession, to relieve the
necessity; we think that the contract of the captain will bind his

owners, personally.
Verdict, accordingly, for the plaintiffs.

