94
1803.
.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

of March 1796, evidently restricts the location, under the WFtoming certificates, to those lands, for which the land-officers were
previously authorised to giant warrants; and no authority- was
ever given to the land-officers to sell city lots, till the act of the
5th of Aprii 1797. 4 vol. 165. Dall. edit.
Here, Dallas was stopped by the COURT, -%%ho declared, that
fhey could not conjecture upon what ground the rule was tenable; and desired to- hear the opposite counsel. Ingersoll and
Rawle, however, acknowledged, that they saw the subject in a
point of view different from that, in which it was presented, when
they made the motion; and declined any further argument.
By the CoURT: Let the rule be dischargcd.
Crousillat versus Ball.
(

ASE, on a policy of insurance upon ship and cargo, containing a warranty against seizure or detention, for any illicit,
or prohibited, trade. (1) It appeared, in evidence, that the vessel
and cargo were owned by the plaintiff, and were insured on a
voyage from Philadel)hia to Cape Francois; thence to. New
Orleans; thence back to the Cape; and from the Cape back to
Philadeplja. When the vessel had arrived at the Cape, on the
return voyage, war bad broken out between Great Britain and
France; and the calamities of St. Domingo compelled a number
of its inhabitants, to seek an asylum in the United States. The
captain of the vessel (who was addressed to merchants at the
Cape, and only ih case of their absence was entrusted with the
disposition of the cargo) undertook to cover, as American propety, a considerable quantity of coffee and cash, belonging to
two of the fugitive F renchmen; under a bargain, that they should
pay to the owner of the ship a certain sum for passage money,
and for the freight of the coffee; and to the captain, for his own
separate emolument, 50 half-johannes in hand for covering the
cash, with a contingent of 200 half-johannes more, on its safe
arrival in the LUnted States; and a sum equal to.the freight, for
covering the coffee. The vessel was captured and carried into
tnzaica, and both vessel and cargo libelled as prize, in the Court
,if
Vice-Admiralty. The captain filed a claim, for the ship, and
the plaintiff's part of the cargo, and for freight on the covered
(1) This cause had been tried twice before, upon a declaration, containing
*&single count, charging the loss to have happened bythe capture, arrest, and
d!etention of a foreign prince. On the first trial, the jury could not agree; and on
the second trial a special verdict was found, but so imperfectly, that judgment
could not be rendered upon it. A venirr facias de ,nmoawas, therefore, awarded;
and the plaintiff bad leave to add a cou;t to his dcclaration, averring the loss
b6 have happened by the barratry of the master; on which point new evidence
.ras row given.

SUPEME COURT Or PErNSYLVANIA.

295

part of the property; but in his answers to the standing inter- 1803.
rogatories, he had sworn, that the whole cargo belonged to the %
plaintiff, and that there were no papers on board, except such as
he had delivered. On searching the vessel, however, the bills of
lading, letters, and other papers, relative to the covered property,
were found concealed; the whole cargo, including the master's
own adventure, was condemned; and though the vessel was acquitted, upon further proof of American ownership, sent by the
plaintiff from Philadelphia, it was expressly without freight, on
account of the master's fraud. When notice of the capture
was received, the plaintiff abandoned to the underwriters, stating
"that the voyage was defeated, and the cargo takeir out of the
"hands of my agent," the captain.
On two former trials of this cause, the argument turned entirely upon the question, whether the underwriters were responsible for a loss thus occasioned by the misconduct of the captain.
who was the agent of the owner? And the COURT were clearly
of opinion, that by taking on board the property of Frenchmen,
and covering it as the property of the plaintiff, the risque had
been increased; that the perjury of the captain had, also, involved the neutral property, in the jeopardy of the belligerent masked property; and that, in fact, his misconduct, from beginning
to end, had produced and justified a condemnation. Considering
him, therefore, as he must, in law, be considered, in the light of
the plaintiff's agent, the Court thought, that the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover.
On the present trial, the plaintiff rested his right to recover,
on the barratrv of th, captain; and urged, 1st. That although
fraud is essential to constitute barratry; yet, if a captain of a
vessel is guilty of a fraudulent act, with intent to benefit his
owner, who is ignorant of the act, and neither authorised, nor
assented to it, it is a case of barratry, within the indenmity of a
policy of insurance. 1 Stra. 581. 2 Raym. 1349. Coupt. 154.
1 T. Rep. 259. 3 7. Rep. 278. 4 T. Rep. 36. 6 T. Rep. 379.
2 Dall. Rep. 137. 2d. That the captain acted, on the present
occasion, as captain; and was guilty of a fraud, with a view to
his own separate interest and emolument; which clearly amounted to barratry, though the ordinary freight and passage-money,
were secured for his owner. And if barratry is committed, the
insurers are answerable, although the loss is not 'the direct and
necessary consequence of the barratrous act. 3d. That the cap.
tain was not the general agent and consignee of the plaintiff; and
when he undertook to cover the property, he manifestly acted a"
captain, for his own benefit, and not as agent, for the benefit of
his principal, upon a commission to be paid by the principal.
4th. That a warrantry against a seizure for illicit trade, means a
seizure in the trade, in which the owner cnonloys the ship; not a
'e 2ur e

29V6

6CASES

RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TH'L

1803. seizure in a barratrous trade carried on by the master, without
k.y..J the owner's knowledge, or consent. 3 T. Rep. 278.
The defendant contended, l'st. That the plaintiff was estopped
from alleging barratry, after he had approved the conduct of the
captain (whom he expressly recognised as his agent, in the letter
of abandonment) and endeavoured, by further evidence sent
from America, to maintain the claim in the Court of Vice-admiralty at 7amaica. 2d. That the captain intended to benefit, and
not to defraud, his owner, so no barratry was committed. 3d. That
the captain, being the consignee of ship and cargo, was not capable of committing barratry; which furnishes a conclusive distinction between the present case, and the cases cited from the books.
1 Emerig. 370. 2 Marsh. 442. 2 Dall.Rep. 137. 9. Parh, 91.
6 T. Rep. 7 T. Rep. And 4th. That the seizure detention and
condemnation of the cargo, was on account of an illicit and prohibited trade, by covering belligerent property, in violation of the
law of nations, and the good faith of neutrals; as vell as by a
prohibited intercourse with a Spanish colony.
YnATES, .ustice, delivered the charge of the Court, to the
following effect. In this action,- evidence has now been given
upon a ground distinct from any, that was taken on the former
trials; fand the only question to be decided is, whether the cargo insured was lost by the 'barratry of the master?
Barratry is 'an act committed by the master of a vessel, of a
t'riminal nature, without the license, or consent of the owner.
There must be fraud in the transaction; a selfish and sinister
design, for the master's own interest; for, if the act is done
:iolely to benefit the owner, it does riot constitute barratry.
It is the province of the jury to decide upoh the credit of thq
witnesses, and the amount of the evidence. The enormity of
the doceur, the lapse of time, and other circumstances, are calculated to excite doubt and suspicion. If, however, the jury
think, that the captain meant to take the premium, for covering
the property, to his own private benefit, in exclusion of his owner; and not, in the first instance, to pay it to the owner, expecting from him a gratuitous compensation, or reward; the act of
barratry is proved, and the plaintiff must recover; unless the
evidence shall satisfy the jury, that the captain was the general
agent and consignee of the plaintiff, and acted as such. In that
case, the law is equally clear, that the acts of a general agent,
cannot, any more than the acts of the principal himself, be denoninated barratry.
The other objections that have been made by the defendant's
counsel, appear to be satisfactorily answered, in the course of
the evidence and the argument. The proof of interest in the cargo is strong; and mos*t clearly, the case is not a case of illicit
trading, within the meaning of the warranty. The nature of the
indirect

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

indirect intercourse with New-Orleans, a Spanish colony, was
well known to the underwriters; and, in truth, the trade would
not be illicit, if it was fairly carried on. Even, in that respect,
therefore, the objection cannot be sustained; and as it respects
the violation of neutral character, it is the very ground of the
plaintiff's right to recover, if the violqtion was committed, for
the private purposes of the master of the vessel. For, here we
repeat, the sole question to be decided, is, whether the master,
in breach, or evasion, of his orders, did a fraudulent act, in the
course of the voyage, tending to hL own benefit, and to the prejudice of his owner? If he did, the verdict must be for the plaintiff. If not, or if what he did, was in the character of a general
agent, the verdict must be for the defendant.
Verdict for the plaintiff.
For the plaintiff, B. Tilehman, Dui Ponceau, E. S. Burd, and
..Dallas.
Fqr the defendant, Inversoll and Raivle.

"Vo-. IV.

09-

1803.

