354

CASES RU:LED AND ADJUDGED IN TIE

1801. thc.verdict was given, it appeared that one of the jurors was an
.... * alien; and Dallas obtained a rule to show cause, why the verdict
should not be set aside for that reason.
On the argument, in support of the rule, it was contended,
1st. Thattlie trial by jury, entire, was anxiously adopted by the
United States, as well as by this state; including the right, and
causes, of challenge as at common law, in civil and in criminal
cases. 1 vol. State Laws, App. 55. s. 9. 11. (Dall.edit.) Ibid. 58.
s. 25. 3 vol. 36. s. 9. 6. 4 vol. Acts Cong.p. 25. art. 8, 9. 1 vol.
,ftateLaws, _p. 134. s. 4. Dall. edit. 2 vol. 802. s. 2. 3 Vol. 606.
s. 16. 2 vol. 264. s. 9. 12. 3. 1 vol. Acts Cong. 113. s. 30. Ibid.
68. s. 29. 2d. That on principle, as well as on authority; alienage was a cause of challenge to a juror before verdict. 3 State
Laws, Const. art. 8. 1 vol. Acts Cong. Const. art. 6. Ibid. 67. s.
29. 1 Roll. Abr. 657. Co. Litt. 156. b. 3 Bl. Com. 362. Gilb. P.
C. 94. 1 Dall. Rep. 74. 3d. That if the cause of challenge was
unknown when the jury was qualified, it may be used to set aside
the verdict, as for a mistrial. 3 Dall. Rep. 515. 11 .Mod. 119.
2 Wood. 352. An. Reg. 1790. p. 46. 2 Ld. Raym. 1410. 1 Stra.
640. 1 vol. Acts Cong. 6. s. 17. 2 Stra. 1000. 593.
B. Tilghman and Ingersoll,in opposition to the rule, contended,
1st. That, in Pennsylvania, alienage was not a cause of challenge
t67 a juror. But, 2d. That the objection was too late after the
juror was sworn, and the verdict was given.
The COURT, after a long advisement upon the subject, seemed
to think, that alienage might have been a cause of challenge, before the juror was sworn; but, upon an extensive review of the
authorities, they decided, that advantage could not be taken of it,
after verdict.
Rule discharged. (1)

Penn versts Butler.
Butler versus Penn.

Penn versus Penn.
Same versus Same.

rT HESE were bills in equity, involving a great variety of facts,
I respecting the disposition of the estates of the late propric.
tary family: but the principal object of all of them, was submitted for the opinion of the Court, on the following agreement:
" It is agreed, that these suits be submitted for the opinion ol
"the Court, upon the following statement of facts, admitted by
(1) Since the discussion of this case, the marshal has been directed not V.
return aliens upon the panel; and, in many instances, when aliens have been
returned, the state, as well as the federal, Courts have discharged them, upon
their own application.

" all

CIRCUIT 'COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

355

" all the parties, except the fact, that Anthony Butler, for his 1801.
own accomnmnodation, and -without the consent, Anowledge, or ap".probation, of John Penn the elder, took, inter alia, in part pay" ment of certain sales herein after mentioned, certain-bonds and
"mortgages, in the joint names of John Penn the elder, and
"7ohn Penn the younger, as obligees and mortgagees; which
"fact, it is agreed, shall be decided by the Court, oxi evidence to
U be produced; and that such formal decrees be eventually drawn
and entered in each, as will effectuate the opinion which the
"

"

Court shall pronounce.

" Case. John Penn the elder, and J7ohn Penn. the younger,
"after the act of assembly of Pennsylvania, passed Nrovember
"27th 1779, entitled "an act for vesting the estates of the late
"proprietaries of Pennsylvania in this commonwealth," remained seised and possessed, as tenants in common, of all their
"manors, reserved tracts, &c. in Pennsylvania, with power too
"sell in fee: three-fourth parts being the property of 7ohn Penn
"the younger; and one-fourth part being the property of John
"Penn the elder. On the 19th of Novenber 1787, John Penn the
"elder appointed John F. MVin his attorney, with power to
"sell and convey, &c. to receive payment for lands sold either
"in money or securities; and to substitute any agent or agents,
"And on the 23d of December 1787, Yohn F. Mifflin substi"tuted Anthony Butler. On the 29th day of J7une in the year
1-'87, 1ohn Penn the younger, appointed Robert Millegan and
" John F. .Ztiffin his attornies, with power to sell, and convey,
" &c. to receive paynent for lands sold, either in money or se" curities; and to substitute any agent or agents. And on the
"29th day of June in the year 1787, Robert Millegan and Johnz
"F. lIifflin substituted Anihony Butler. John Penn the younger
"aftenvards revoked the power of attorney, which he had grant-.
"ed to Robert MOillegan and John F. Mifflin. And on the 29th
"of April 1788, John Penn the younger appointed the said An" thony Butler his attorney, with powers to sell and convey, and
"to receive in payment money or securities.
" By virtue of the several powers above stated, Anthony Bat"ler did, at sundry times, sell several tracts of land, belonging
"to the said John Penn the elder, and John Penn the younger
"as tenants in common, in the proportions aforesaid; and in
"payment therefor (inter alia) took, 'for his own accommodation,
"without the consent, knowledge, or approbation, of the said
" 7chn Penn the elder, certain bonds and mortgages, in the joint
"names of John Penn the younger, and John Penn the elder,
"as obligees and mortgagees. After the time of taking the said
"bonds and mortgages, to wit, on the 9th of February 1795,
"John Penn the elder died, leaving Anne Penn and Yohn F.
" Mifflin executrix and executor of his last will and testament.
" There

356
1801.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE-

"There are in the hands of Anthony Butler, a number of
bonds and mortgages, taken as aforesaid, in each and all of
which bonds and mortgages, the said 7ohn Penn the younger
is interested three undivided fourth parts; and the aforesaid
executors of 7ohn Penn the elder are interested the other one
undivided fourth part.
" Questions. 1st. Wrhether 7ohn Penn the younger, as sur"4 viving obligee and mortgagee, is entitled to have and receive
"from Anthony Butler, all the said bonds and mortgages, for the
"purpose of collecting and distributing the money thereby se"cured and made payable, according to the respective interests
of the parties?
"2d. Or, whether the executors of Yohn Penn the- elder, are
"entitled to receive one fourth part in value of the said specific
" bon~ds and mortgages, for their separate use and benefit?
" 3d. Or, whether the Court will consider the bonds and mort" gages, under the circumstances of the case, as several, as well
" as joint, to be -followed with the consequences inferable from
" such principle?"
1
"
"
"
"

On the hearing, Mr. Butler's testimony stated, " that he was,
at first, the separate agent of 7ohn Penn, the younger, when Mr.
T. Franciswas the separate agent of . ohn Penn, the elder; that
during this period the bonds, for purchase money of lands sold,
were separately taken, according to the interests of the parties;
that in September 17a7, he became the agent of both the Penns,
but continued, for sometime, to take'separate bonds; that the
purchasors complained of the expense of giving separate bonds
and mortgages, and he 'then determined to take them for the
joint use of his principals; that he received no instructions upon
the subject, from either party; and that he was not, in fact, aware
of any difference between taking the bonds jointly or severafly."
It, also, appeared, that Mr. Y. R. Coates had been appointed the
agent of .7ohn Penn, the younger; hnd the general question was,
whether Mr. Butler should be directed to deliver up the joint
bonds and mortgages to him, as the agent of the surviving obligee?
Ingersoll and.Zfffffljn contended, against the claim of the surviving obligee, 1st. That it was founded merely on the mistake,
and misapprehension, of the agent, acting for two parties, having
distinct interests, and giving separate powers, 2d. That, under
such circumstances, a Court of equity can, and ought to, apportion the securities, by a fair division of them; so that each party
may possess the entire interest and remedy in his proportion.
3d. That even if an apportionment could not be made, the Court
will appoint a receiver, to collect and divide the joint fund, in the
regular proportions. On these points, the following books were
cited: 3 P. Mins. 158. 21 Prin. Abr. 509. ph 4. Carth. 16. 1 Eq.
Ab'

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA

.Abr. 293. 3 Vez. jun. 628. 6S1. 399.
1 Bq. Abr. 290. A.

DISTRICT.

2 Com. Dig-. 255. 258.

Rawle and Dallas, in support of the claim of the surviving
obligee, urged, 1st. That the point of law is clearly in favour of
of the claim; and to set aside a plain rule of law, there must be
strong, controuling, principles of equity, in favour of the opposite
party. 2d. That the act of taking joint securities was not a mistake, or error; but a deliberate act for the accommodation of
purchasors. 3d. That there was no suggestion of a fraud, a
breach of trust, wilful laches, or probable insolvency, in reference
to the surviving obligee. 4th. That there is, therefore, no foundation for the interposition of the Court to appoint a receiver;
nor to justify a Court of equity in compelling the parties to accede to an arbitrary apportionment of the securities. On these
points were cited, relv. 177. Vent. 34, 3 Dy. 350. Sheph. 363.
356. 2 .Brown/.207. 1 Eq. Abr. 290. 2 Pow. 263. Ambl. 311.
I .Dal. Rep. 248. Wallace v. Fitzsimons. 2 Corn. Dig. 110. 209.
213. 255.

2 Vern. 556.

The COURT were decidedly of opinion, that, at law, the surviving obligee was entitled to the possession of the joint securities, that he might recover the amount; and that there was no
ground laid, on the present occasion, for the interposition of a
Court of equity. (1)
(1) On this clear intimation of the opinion of the Coprt, Mr. Coameeliberall,
declared, that if the executors of 7ohn Penn, the elder, would concur in givinghim immediate possession of the securities, he wouhl not charge a comnnissihn.
for collecting and paying their proportion of the amount; and the propositi'.was, accordingly, agreed to

35

1801.

