HIGH COURT
or

ERRORS AND APPEALS
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

January Session 1804.
Present CHEw, President of this Court.
RuSH,
Presidents of the Circuits of Common
RIDDLE,
Pleas.
HENRY, and
ROBERTS,

Lea, Execitrix, et a!. versus Yard.
Hazlehurst et a. versus Dallas, Secretary of the Coin"monveahth.
,V RROR from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. These
li actions depended, chiefly, on the same facts, and principles;
and were argued together, both in the Supreme Court, and in
this Court. The facts were these:
J7ohn Chaloner was appointed an auctioneer for the city of
Philadelphia,on the 1st of Ato-ust 1791, and gave a bond to the
secretary of the commonwealt , in the penal suin of 20001., with
two sureties, namely, Leonard Dorsey, and Thomas Lea, who
are both since dead. Richard S. Footman was, also, V'ppointed
an auctioneer on the 9th of June 1795; and gave a similar bond,
with Isaac .Fazlehurst, and 7ohn D. Coxe, as his sureties. The
conditions of the bonds were of the following tenor:
In Chaloner's case: "Whereas the above bounden ohn Chalo"n er was on"the first instant re-appointed aubtioneer, with au" thority to makie sales by auction at any place or places within
t, the

CASES AriFltEJi

OR

REVERSED IN THE

1804. " the city of Philadelphia,the district of Southwark, or the town.
ship of the Northern Liberties, or Mdyanmensing, according to
"law: JNow the condition of this obligation is such, that if the
"said Yohn Chaloner shall well and faithfully execute the afore"said office of auctioneer according to law; and shall from time
"to time well and truly account for all public monies, which
"shall come into his hands, and pay the same into the treasury
of the state, agreeably to the directions of the several acts of
'1 assembly of this commonwealth, which relate to aucti6ns and
" auctioneers; then the above obligation to be void, and of none
"effect, or to be and remain in full force and virtue."
In Footmazs caxse: " Whereas by a commission bearing even
" date with the above written obligation, the above bounden R.
"S. Footman has been duly appointed one of the public auction" eers in and for the city of Philadelphia:Now' the condition of
" this obligation is such, that if the above bounden R. S. Footman shall well and faithfully discharge and perform all the du"ties of an auctioneer, and in-all things truly and fully comply
"with, and execute the laws relating to the office of auctioneer,
"then the above written obligation to be void, otherwise to be
"and remain in full force and virtue."
While these bonds, respectively, were in force, Mr. 7ames
Yard delivered to Chaloner, as public auctioneer, a considerable
qluantity of goods to be sold for him. The goods were, accordingly, sold; but Chaloner retained 5,011 dollars of the proceeds,
which he never paid over, or accounted for, to Mr. Yard. And,
at the same time, he was considerably indebted to the state, for
duties received upon sales at auction. Mrs. Gapper,in like manner, delivered to Footman, as a public auctioneer, a quantity of
goods to be sold for her; which were, accordingly, sold; but the
proceeds never accounted for; although Footman had punctually
paid into the state treasury, all the duties, which he had collected.
Chaloner being dead, an action was brought upon his bond,
against his executor, &c. for the use of the commonwealth, in
which judgment was rendered,and the amount of the duties (being
less than the penaity) was recovered. (1) Mr. Yard, thereupon,
issued a scire facias, returnable to December term 1798, against
the executors of Thomas Lea, one of Chaloner's sureties; while
Mrs. Gapper instituted a suit upon Footman'sbond, in the name
of the secretary of the common.wealth, for her use. Cases, comprising the foregoing facts (redenda singula singulis) were filed
in the actions respectively, with an agreement to consider them
as special verdicts, for the purpose of a writ of error; and the
gemeral question submitted to the Court, was, Vhether an auctneer's bond is a security for his priv.Tte customers, as well as
!or the payment of the duties to the st~te ?
Aeft0.
(1) See . Val.
"
Afte'.
S"

HIGH COURT or ERRORS AND ApPEAs.

9

After argument, the opinion of the Supreme Court, was deli- 1804.
vered, seriatim, on the 24th of March 1802, by SMITH and
BRACKENRIDGE, Yustices, (Chief Justice SHIPPEN, and YEATES,
Yustice, declining to take a part in the decision, on account of

their relationship to the defendants) conformably to which, judgment was entered for the plaintiff, in both suits: (1) And writs
of error were brought upon these judgments.
The
(1) I have been favoilred with a note'of *hat was said by the Judges;
fromr which, in substance, may be collected the following principles.
SMITH, ffu1tce, This is strongly pressed as a case of sureties, against
1hom an obligation ought never, it is said, to be extended, beyond the strict
letter. 2 7'. Rep. 370. But, the truth is, that where there is a joint obligation,
the law does Pot, abstractedly, recognise the character of a surety: and, after
all, sureties must be bound, according to the true construction of the obligation,
whatever
The essential
may bequestion,
the formtherefore,
of the expression.
,
to what
duties,
1 Br.
CA. 87.
does the condition of
the bond refer. It is a general rule, resulting from a view of our whole official system, that where an officer gives a bond for the performance of his
duties, it shall operate to protect the individuals, who are obliged by the law,
to resort to his office, as well as the public, by whom he is appointed. From
many instances, it is sufficient to mention those of sheriffs, coroners, and surveyors. The instance of an auctioneer, independent of the positive provisions
of the statute, seems at least,. to be, as much as any oither, within the reason,
principle, and. policy, of the rule. He is a public agent, with an exclusive
authority to sell at vendue. Individuals cannot employ any other agent for
the purpose of selling their goods; and it is the uniform practice toleave to
him, too, the collection of the purchase money. Indeed, I cannot perceive
how the owner of the goods could consistently with the various provisions of
the laws, maintain an action against the vendee, for the price, in his ow4
name. I gant, that the general rule is, that he who sells by another, is in
contemplation bf law, the seller himself, with the right of action to recover
the price: but thit rule applies only, where the owne" of the goods may
chuse his agent, and not wher he is obliged to employ the agent of the public. 2 Stra. . 1182. Inconveniences might easily be suggested, arising from
the opposite doctrine. Auctioneers often advance money on goods sent for
sale: would it be just that the owner should still have the power to demandI
and recover the price, from the purchaser.? On a sale, the state'acquires a
right to the duty, as well as the owner to the p~urchase money: shall the owner
be allowed to recover the duty, as well as the price; or must the vendee be
exposed to two demands, and two suits.? If, then, upon niotives of public
policy, a puiblic agent is imposed on the citizens for the sale of their goods,
nothing but express words would warrant our supposing, that the legislature,
while they took a bond to protect the collection of a small revenue, meant to
leave unprotect~ed, so great.an amount of private property.
The very smallness of the penalty of the bond, has, however, been urged as
an argument, to show, that it ould not be the intention of the legislature, to
embrace the interests of individuals, as well as the rights of the state. To
this objection, I answer: 1st. That, inproportion to the responsibility, the
penalty is larger, than in the case of sheriffs' bonds. 2d. That there are
several auctioneers, each giving a bond in the same sum; and the vendor
may consider, which of them, and his sureties, may be most safely entrusted.
3d. That by the condition of the auctioneer's bond, the sums collected, are
to be immediatelyv paid over; whereas, in the case of a sheriff, the monies
levied'may be retained for a considerable time.
Upon the whole, I think judgment must be rendered for the plaintiff.
BRxcKEnIDGE, tu~tice. The act of the 23d of September 1780, is the first
that reserves a per centurn for the state, on sales at atuction: but it will not he
said, that adding to the duties of the auctioneer, diminished the effect of the
VoL. IV.
0
pbligation.

D8
1804.
t... .J

CAsEs Ar rI

MED oR REVERSEb IN Txr,

The case was argued on the 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th of
anuary 1804, by T. Levy, E. Tilghman, and Ingeroll,for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Lewis, Ra-Ole, S. Levy, and Dallas, for
the defendants in error. And, in the course of the argument,
both sides referred to the following sections, of the several acts
of the general assembly, relative to auctions.
1st. A.a act was passed on the 14th of February1729, (1 State
Laws, 154." Gall. edit.) " for regulafing pedlars, vendues, &c."
The preamble recites," Whereas of late many idle and vagrant
"persons are come into this province, and, under pretence of
"beisg hawkers or pedlars, and carrying goods from- house to
"ho use within this province to sell, have greatly imposed upon
"many people, as well in the quality as in the price of the goods,
"and under colour of selling their wares and merchandizes,
"have entered into the houses of many honest and sober people,
inthe absence of the owner, or owners, of the said houses,
"and committed felonies and other misdemeanors, to the great
"prejudice of the inhabitants of this province. For remedying
,of which inconveniences, and preventing such evil practices,
"and to the intent that no persons may be admitted to follow
"the business of hawkers and pedlars within this province, but
"persons of known honesty, and civil behaviour," &c. The
sixth section of the act provided, " That no person, or persons
:'whatsoever, exnept as hereinafter is excepted, shall, after, the
"publication of this act, take upon him, her, or themselves, to
"sell, or .expose to sale, by way of vendue, or auction, any wares,
"goods, or merchandizes, within the city of Philadelphia,unless
"such person, or persons, shall be recommended by the mayor,
",recorder, and aldermen .of the said city of Philadelphia, in
"their open sessions, to the governor of this province; and shall
"have given security to the mayor of the said city, for the time
"being, for the use of the coriporation, in such sum as shall be
"agreed upon by the said mayor, &c. provided the same do
"not exceed the sum 5001., for his or their honest and due
obligation. Every duty, which an auctioneer is bound to perform, is embraced
in the terms of the condition; and paying over the proceeds of the sales to
his employers, is expressly a duty.
The reduction of the penalty of the bond from 20,0001. to 2,000!., might
raise a presumption, that when a revenue was contemplated, the revenue
only was to be protected; were not that circumstance rebutted, by considering the relative value of money, at the two periods of passing the laws.
Then, the auctioneer is a pubic agent, who must be employed to sell goods
at public vendhe. He is not only the exclusive agent to sell; but the law, ob.
viously, makes him the exclusive agent to collect the amount of the sales:
the owner of the goods cannot fbrbid the payment to the auctioneer, and recover the purchase money himself. In such a state of.things, it is reasonable
and just, that the law should protect the-private citizens, who are compelled
to trust a public agent, in this, as yell as in any other, instance; and although
the penalty is small, it is in my view a positive provision'to protect the customers of the auctioneer, as well as the revenue of the public.
Judgment must be for the plaintif.

'1executiont

HIGH COURT 0

ERRORS AND APPEALS.

" execution ofthe ojFce of vendue-master 'within the city of Phila. 1804.
" dephia,and for the due observationof the ordinances of the said
" city, touching the. regulatingvendues, orpublicsales, or auctions,
It within the same."
.2d. An act was passed on the 26th of .ovember 1779 (2 State
Laws, 245. MKean's edit.)." for the effectual suppression of
" public auctions and venduesi &c." to expire at the termination of the war.' It provides for.the appointment of a single
"auctioneer of the city of Philadelphia;" and the 9th section
declares, " that the said auctioneer shall, before he enters
" upon the duties of his office, become bound wrth two sufficient
" sureties, unto the president of the supreme executive council
"cof this state, in the sum of 20,0001., conditioned for the fqith"Ifulperformance of the duties requiredof him, andfor the honest
"andjust satisfaction and payment of his employers, and every
"one f them. And besides the usual attestation required of the
' officers of this state by law, shall take an oath that he willi to
"the best of his skill and abilities, faithfully perform and execute
"the duties required of him by this act."
3d. An act was- passed on the 23d of September 1780 (2 State
Laws, 406. JAPKean's edit.) "tto alter and amend," the preceeding act; by the 2d section of which, the appointment of three
auctioneers is authorised, " who shall continue for and during
"the will and pleasure of president, &c. and shall give bond to
the president and his successors, with two sufficient sureties,
"in the sum of 20,000. for thefaithful dischargeof their duties;
"and for well and truly performing .the terms and payments in
tand by this act directed and required:". by the 3d section it is
provided, that the said auctioneers shall have an exclusive right
to sell by public vendue, "rendering andpaying to the state trea.
" surer, for the use of the commonwealth, one per cen'tum oj the
"1gross amount of the sales, so by him, or them, made as afore"csaid, in manner following, - that -is to say; that eaith and every
"4ofthe said auctioneers, shall once in every three months render
"an account upon oath to the said treasurer, &c. of all the effects
" and property by him sold at any time before the said time of"rendering the same account, and since his last settlement, and
"shall then immediately pay to the same treasurer the full amount
,of the said one pound in the hundred pounds upon the same
"account.
And upon any failure in rendering the same account
"upon oath, or of payment of the said sum of one per centum,
"any auctioieer so failing, or neglecting, shall be discharged:
"from his place, and the .said bond put immediately in suit:"
And by.the 8th section,, it is provided, that the fees or recompense of the auctioneers, "for selling at public auction, collecting
"the money, andpaying over the 'ame without loss or waste, shal
"be, &c." -a per centage, more or less, according to the nature
of the specified articles,

4th. A

100

CASES AFRIRMED OR REVERSED IN THE

1804.
4th. An act was passed on the 13th of April 1782 (2 vol. State
"-f-1 Laws, Dall.'edit.) by which the coinpensation of the auctioneers
was reduced, "1for their expences and trouble in selling anypro"perty at public auction, collecting the money and paying over
"the same without loss ;" an additional oneper centum was charg.
ed on the gross sales, for the use of the commonwealth, to be accounted for and paid over, as the preceding law directs, under the
penalty therein mentioned; and it was declared, "that the several
" bonds given by the said auctioneers to the president, for the
" faithfulperformance of the duties of them required by the afore"saidact, shall be a securityfor the payment o/ the one per centum
" imposed by this act."
5th. An act was passed on the 9th of December 1783 (2 State
Laws,, 169. Dall. edit.) by which the previous acts (with certain
exceptions) were made perpetual; auctioneers were prohibited
from buying, at public sales, on their own account; and, it was
repeated, that if an auctioneer failed or neglected to account,. he
should be discharged from his place, and his bond put in suit.
6th. An act was passed n the 19th of March 1789 (2 vol.
State Laws, 680. Dall. eaat.) by which the appointment of an
auctioneer for .lfoyanensing was authorised, who should give
bond, with two sufficient sureties, in the sum of 20001., "for the

"faithful dischargeof his duty, and for well and truly perform" ing the terms andpayments in and by this act, and the several
" acts of general assembly, to which this is a supplement, directed
" and requirea."
Vth. An act was passed on the 27th of March 1790 (2 vol.
State Laws, 777. fall edit.) reducing the duty on sales to one
per cent., and authorising the appointment of two additional auctioneers, who shall give bond" with two or more sufficient sure"ties, in the sum of 20001., conditionedfor the faitdful discharge
"of their and every of their respective duties, and for well and
"truly performing the terms and payments in and by this act,
and the several acts of generalassembly to which this is a sup"plement, directed and required."
8th. An act was passed on the 26th of February 1791, (3 State
Laws, 91. Dall. edit.) by which the restriction upon the auctioneers to sell goods only within the districts, for which they were
respectively appointed, was repealed and annulled.(1)
For theplaintiF'inerror. 1st. It is proper to premise, that the
present suits are instituted against sureties, after the principals
are insolvent and dead. And, independent of any peculiar hard-

(1) It may be pror' r, after this recapitulation, to observe, that the conditions
of the bonds, in the )resent cases, were not drawn strictly in the terms of the
acts of assembly; but it was agreed, to argue and decide the general question,
independent of any objection, that might bo made to the form. of the bonds.
ship

HIrH CouRt'o1r ERRORS AND APPEALS.

101

ship in this case, it is a rule of law, as well as of equity; that the 1804.
responsibility of a surety, shall never be extended beyond the
strict letter of his contract. 2 T. Rep. 370. 2 Wils. 379. 4 Vez.
jr. 788. Nor is the contract to be regarded in the same rigor,
as if it had been expressed by the parties themselves, in their
own terms; instead of being prescribed by a legislative act. In
such a case, the meaning of the terms employed by the legislature,
should be unequivocal, plain, and clear, before it is adopted, as
the meaning of the surety, to bind him in a manner so injurious
and oppressive. -2d. The acts of the assembly of the year 1780,
1782, 1783, 1789, and 1790, were in force, when these auctioneers were appointed; they direct that bonds shall be given, and
they prescribe the terms of the condition of the bonds; but they
do not expressly, in any instance, declare the bonds to be a security for private customers. From the year 1729, until the 26th
of November 1779, although several acts were in force to regulate
sales at public vendue, there is, likewise, no express provision to
be found, declaring the bond of an auctioneer to be for the use
of the individuals, who employed him.. Then, the only act, in
the whole of the system, with all its successive modifications, by
which the bond is expressly appropriated to the protection of an
injured customer, is the act of the 26th of November 1779.
3d. The act of the 26th of November 1779, by adding to a provision, " for the faithful performance of the duties required of
"the auctioneer," a provision "for the honest and just satisfac"tion and payment of his employers, and every ond of them;"
shows it to be the sense of the legislature, that the expressions
of the former, would not embrace the objects of the latter pro.
vision. 4th. The duration of the act of the 26th of November
1779, was limited, by its own teitms, to the continuance of the
war, and the limitation, of course affected the supplemental acts
of 1780, and 1782; but the act of the 9th of December 17831
rendered the supplements perpetual, and so much of the act of
1779, as was not thereby altered, or supplied. Then, it is to be
considered, thA the act of 1780, made expressly
to alter and
" amend" the act of 1779, not only increases the number of auctioneers, but prescribes a new condition to be annexed to their
bonds; to wit; " for the faithful discharge of their duties, and
" for well and truly perfol:ming the terms and payments in, and
" by this act directed and required," totally omitting the passage
in the condition before prescribed, for the honest and just satis" faction and payment of the employers," 6f the auctioneer.
5th. The terms of the condition prescribed in the act of 1780,
supplied and superseded the terms of the condition in the act of
1779; they do not -mean the same thing, and particularly, they
do not both embrace the rights of the individual employers, as
well as the rights of the public. Thus, the duties referred to by the
acf'of 1780, are the duty of keeping a regular register of horses,
and
"

102

CAsns ArivxnI

EDnOp. RPVERSED

IN THE

1804. and of accounting to the state; and of 'acting fairly between bu) cr
and seller; while "the terms and payments" required to be performed, are those which are, specifically, directed and required
" in and by this act;" -nd the act no where directs or requires a
payment to the employers but only to the public. It is true, that
the act of 1780, as well as the act of 1779, declares, that, "for
" selling at public auction, collecting the money, and paying
" over the same without loss or waste," the auctioneer shall be
allowed a per centage; but there is in this provision no duty
prescribed, no terms and payments stipulated; nothing that relates to a surety, or can affect him: it is merely an enumeration
of the services to be performed, by the agent, in consideration
of the compensation which the law allows him to demand and
receive. 6th. The legislative intention to limit the operation of
the bond to a governmental security, may be fairly inferred from
a variety of considerations: the smallness of the penalty; the
change of expression, to exclude as it were, the opposite con.
struction, when a public duty was first imposed by the act of 1780;
the increase of the number of auctioneers, which gave individuals
a selection, and so far rendered a provision -in
their favour unnecessary; the express provision unifocrmly made for individuals by
the legislature in every other case of an official bond; and, finally,
the general understanding of the bar, expressed in various opin.
ions given upon the case of Major Boyd. 3 State Laws. 131.
Dall. edit. 7th. It is not a sufficient answer to these arguments,
that auctioneers are public agents, possessing a monopoly of the
sales at public vendue, to whom private citizens are obliged to
resort; and, therefore, ought to be protected. In the first place,
the regulations of the acts, though they compel individuals to
employ the public auctioneer, do not prevent a special contract
between them, as to the collection of monies, nor ven as to the
rate of compensation. Besides, it is not true, that the acts expressly empower the auctioneers alone to collect the proceeds of
sales; and the general rule of law is well established, that where
the dissenting principal declares himself, a vendee cannot be discharged by a payinent to the agent. 2 Vez. 221. Even in the
case of a compulsive agency, if the employer pays the duty and
commissions to the auctioneer, he may sue the vendee for the
purchase money. 7 T. Rep. 359. And in some cases, a con-ary doctrine would be iniquitous: for, suppose the auctioneer
becomes bankrupt, before the money is collected; may his assignees collect the money, and put the employer to a dividend?
Qr" suppose the sales are made for approved notes, at distant periods, shall it be deemed right and lawful, that the auctioneer
shall take the notes, and hold them, or use them, at the risque of
the employer, till the credit is expired; and, possibly, till thie
money is recovered upon them in an action at law!

t_-

HiGir CO.I;RT or ERRoRs AND APPEALS.

For the defendants in error. 1st. The general questiofi is, whether the official bond of an auctioneer, is a security for'his fidelity t
towards individuals, as well as towards the public? On this question, whatever is the meaning of the legislature in the acts of assembly, is the meaning of the parties in the bond. Both princi.
pal and suret: are bound, according to that meaning; and beyond
it neither of them is bound. The only distinction here-between
the principal and surety is, that the principal may be liable either
at common law, or on the bond; but the surety can only be
liable on the bond. 2 T. Rep. 105. 1 H. Black. 186. On the
true construction of the bond, however, the surety, as well as the
principal, would be liable, even beyond the direct letter (though
the present case requires it not). 4 B. P. 6. 87. Ai.d the obiter
-Rep. 370. must be explained by the subdicta of Buller in 2.
ject matter; while the authority of 2 Wils. 379. yields to the contrarv decision in 1 T. Rep. 291. 2d. Under every modification
of the office, duties, and bonds, of auctioneers, the legislature
b2zeant to protect the customers that employed them, as well as
the government that appointed them. On principle, it must be
meant, since the legislature takes from private individuals the
right of chusingf their own agents; and, from analogy to other
public ofcers, it must be meant; for, there is not a single instance in the whole of our code, where an official bond is not,
either by express words, or the established, practical, construction, held to afford remedy and relief'to injured private persons;
as in the cases of sheriffs, coroners, administrators, &c. Cowp. 140.
(against Ambl. 183.) S Ath. 248. 2 inst. 650. Praugh. 334. 12 Co.
30. b. But the same meaning is clearly, and necessarily derived,
from the words of the legislature, in the acts under immediate
discussion. Thus, the act of 1729, was passed, because street
vendues, &c. had become a nuisance; no revenue, or other public object, than to ensure fair dealing, was contemplated; and the
condition of the bond 'was simply "for the honest and due exe" cution of the office." No other honesty, or dtty, could he in
view here, than honesty and duty towards the customers of the
auctioneer. True, the bond was given for the use of the corporation;and the customefs had no personal remedy upon it; but
still it operated as a penalty for their protection; and if the auctioneer ivad dishonest, or failed, in any way, t3 do his duty, the
forfeiture was absolute under the act of 1729; -while it is now
contended, that under the act of 1780, so far as security is concerned, if he is honest to the public, there can be no forfeiture of
the official bond, le*t him be ever so fraudulent towards the private citizen. The act-of 1779 confirms expressly the legislative
.meaning to be in favour of giving a security to the employers of
auctioneers, both in the terms of the condition of the bond, and
the oaih of the auctioneer; and although the phraseology is
changed, the substance of the provisions remain the same; " an
honest

103
1804.

104

CAsEs ArFIR.IED oR REVERSED IN TH

1804. honest and due execution of the office," under the act of 1729,
certainly including "an honest and just satisfaction and payment
of the employers," as well as a performance of the general duties
of the office. But in the act of 1779 "1the use for the corporation," is discontinued; no other use of the official bond is declared; the penalty, reduced by the scale of depreciation, is nearly
the same as before; certain duties are prescribed in the .th and
10th sections (such as a search for offenders, and cQllecting and
paying over the proceeds of sales) but even under this act no
duty is contemplated to be raised, on sales at auction. Then, the
essential inquiry rests on the act of 1780, which, as well as all
the subsequent acts, passed, not to repeal, but to alter, amend,
supply, or-enlarge, the provisions of the act of 1779; and being,
in pari materia, must be considered together, in order to ascertain the true meaning of the system. The act of 1780, is the
first that contemplates a revenue from sales at auction; but, independent of the provisions to secure the revenue, it continues, in
substance, the provisions to protect the employers; particularly
making it a duty, on which the right of compensation arises, to
collect the proceeds of sales, " and pay over the same, without
loss, or waste." But it is urged, that the act of 1780, when it
prescribes the condition of the bond, omits entirely the previous
stipulation, " for the honest and just satisfaction and payment of
employers;" and claims from auctioneers only " the faithful
" discharge of their duties, and well and truly performing the
" terms and payments, in and by this act directed and required."
The omission suggested, was correct; for, in the previous act,
the stipplation was tautologous and surplusage; as the duties of
the auctioneer (which he was bound to perform) were emphatically to collect the money and make payment to his employers,
no revenue being at that time in contemplation. The appointment of the auctioneer, fixes his- duties, as does the appointment
of a sheriff, &c. without specification, or detail. Selling, collecting, and paying, form the great outline of those duties. The first
and second are common both to the state, and to individuals;
and, as to the third, it branches into a payment of the tax to the
state, and of the purchase money to the individuals. Besides,
" the.terms and payments directed and required in and by this
act," are, 'also, to be performed; and the payment to the employer is rquired by the act, as well as the payment to the state.
In short, the two members of the condition of the present bond,
fortifying and sustaining each other, must embrace all the duties,
all the obligations, which the lhws impose upon an auctioneer, or
the meaning will be constrained, and inconsistent with the general import of the words. 3d. But in opposition to the meaning
of the legislature thus deduced, every kind of inference is offered,
as well from the silence, as the expression, of the laws. It is
said, that neither principal or surety are liable to the employer,
for

HIcH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEAtS.

for a performance of their duty to him; because the act of 1780, 1804.
-and the subsequent acts, do not say so expressly, as the act of
1779 did; and because the penalty of the bond is inadequate to
afford an indemnity for the injury to which, we contend, it applies. If, therefore, the words omitted had been retained, the
controversy must so far have ceased; and the only question is,
whether words equipotent, or even more extensive for the object, are not employed. But as to the second difficulty, it sounds
in this absurdity, that bcause the bond is not sufficient to protect
the employer -entirel, it shall not protect him at all. Is the sheriff's bond, is a surveyor's bond, is every administration bond,
found commensurate with the possible delinquency, or defalcation? And is it conceivable, that because a surety is called on
for less than the loss, that, therefore, he is to pay nothing? But,
the truth is, that the sum is miiore adequate now, than under the
act of 1779, when its application to the relief of the employer,
is admitted. It is raised from the scaled value of 518L. (on
20,0001. at 38. for one) to the specie value of 20001. The increase of the number of auctioneers, virtually augments the
fund for the indemnity of individuals; the restriction to sell in
their respective districts (while in force) limited the quantum
of custom of each auctioneer;. and the obligation to account
quarterly with the state, under the penalty of an immediate
dismission from office, reduced the deinand of the state for an
indemnity to a mere possibility. Neither the first tax of one
per cent., nor its subsequent accumulations, could, under such.
circumstances, require the protection of a penalty of 2000/. from
six auctioneers. Parh. 273. Something more must be protected
than the revenue; the general provision of the act of 1713,
(1 vol. State Laws, 102. Gall. edit.) gives a ground of exposition from all official bonds; and when revenue only is meant
to be protected; or the penalty is to operate as a punishment to
the delinquent, not as a relief to the injured; in the English
statutes, as well as in the Pennyjvania code, the language of
the legislature is appropriate and unequivocal. 19 Geo. 3. c. 56.
s, 7. 1 Anstr. 586. 4th. If arguments ab inconvenienti may avail,
what can be more forcible, than the inconvenience which proceeds from the opposite construction, when the auctioneer is regarded as a public agent, invbsted with the exclusive right to
collect the monies on sales at auction? The rule is different as
to a common law agency; where there are three voluntary parties, the owner, the agent, and the buyer; 2 -cz. 221. and the
difference is not destroyed, though modified, in the case of an
agent del credere. Bull. M P. 150. 7 7. / 0. 359. Here, however, the licensed auctioneer is not onh" a legislative agent, del
credere, (o the buyer, but the state cou'sti.utcs a fourth p-rty,
giving the law to every part of the transaction, to every (k-gret
of the responsibility. The auctionci r is, thus. a trustee for zh.Vol. 11.
P
ztatr.

CASEs

LOG
1804.

APPIRXIED OR RrvsErSm, &c.

state. He, not the owner of the goods, nor the buyer, must pay
duties to the state; and he gives the security, not the owner.
it naturally follows (and so is the practice) that immediately
upon a sale, the auctioneer becomes the debtor to the owner
of the goods, as well as to the state. The owner does not know
the purchaser, and seldom inquires for him. The knowledge, or
the inquiry, would be superfluous, as the auctioneer alone pos3esses the power to collect, as well as to sell: it is a vested right,
by operation of law, and not, in its nature, assignable. 2 Dall.
174. 1 H. Blacl. 81. Willing v. Roland. (1) But, it is an universal
principle, that where a power is given, a duty arises. The sheriff has a power to execute a capias; and, therefore, it is a duty
to do it. The coroner has a power to hold inquests; and, therefore, it is a duty to hold them.

Sthe

After deliberation, the COURT were, unanimously, of opinion,
that the auctioneer's bond was intended, by law, for the benefit
of his private customers, as well as for securing the duties payable to the government:

And, therefore, the judgments of the Supreme Court were
affirmed; and the records remitted for further prc.ceedings. (2)
(1) WIlling et al. v. Rowland et at. in the Supreme Court, 1791, before
M'KEAN., Chieffustice, and Rusa and BRYAN.'.:, *f?'ti*ez. This was an action
of assumnpsit, for goods sold and delivered. The goods were sent by the plaintifls to the store of J7ohn Mease, a license, auctioneer, and were sold., at public vendue, to the defendants. Mlfease becamne, soon aftrwards, a bankrupt;
and the defendants refused to pay the 1,rebchase motey to the plaintiffh, insisting upon a right to set-off a debt due to them, from the bankrupt. The
Cot aT were decidedly of opinion, that the plaintifis could not maintain the
pres,:nt suil; that, by law, the right of action is vested in the auctioneer; and
that the comm,,,-lam rule in the case of factor and principal, did not apply to
the case .;f a public auctioneer.
A %erdict x-a, thc!.eupon, given in favour of the defendant.
BowiLe ar d 1./lo.ell (by the latter of whom this note is obligingly furnished)
for 1hV 'Lm-1.1,,;, toei C11CIn. Dig. title " Merchant." B. 81. 133 in. Albr. 9. Rall.
Rep. 337; SVern. 638. 3 Bac. 519. 2 Stra. 1182. Co. B. p. 236, 7. Brad!oqfrd and
'AEt,,, fir the defenlants, who cited Bull. M P. 130. 280. 12 Ma1d. 514. 5.
Mot,',y, 466.
(2) In the case of Dallas v. Hzlehurst et at the defendants paid the
an..,mt of the penalty of the bond into the Supreme Court, to be disposed of,
as the Court should airect. To.ld, for several creditors who had not brought
suits, or whose suits were subsequent in date, to Mrs Gapper'ir suit, asked
the opinion of the Cowot, whether the creditors of Footinan were not entitled
to share in the fund, pro rata? Dallas and S. Levy urged, that upon principle
and -.uthority, the creditor first suing, was entitled to be first, and completely
paid
beoreothr cedis rs %%
ere admitted. The COURT wre clearly of' that
opinion; aniL Mrs. Gappir'.s debt wvith interest was, accordingly, satisfied;
leai ing only the surplus of the fond for other creditors.

