132

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1793.

]-Edgar's Lessee versus James Robinson, junior, and AV nHam Robinson:

SJECTMENT,

tried at 21ork-Tow-, in which defence was
taken for one.thlrd part of the premises. The title of the
lessor of the plaintiff was deduced from a patent, dated the 10th
of .Jtene 1734, to Thomas Lenton, who conveyed, on the 8th of
January 174,1, to James Rowland, and James Rowland afterwards conveyed to Robert Rowland, who devised the premises
to his sons James, Yohn, :nd Matthew, by a will dated the 9th
of January 1779. A sheriff's deed was then read, dated the
29th of April 1785, which recited a judgment and execution, at
the suit of Andrew Leiper agiinst Matthew Johaston and Jamcs
Robinson for 30l.; and a sale of one-third part of the land, as the
estate of anes Robinson, to Samuel Edgar (the lessor of the
plaintiff) for t0l. And parol evidence was offered to show, that
Yames Rowland had conveyed one-third of the premises to James
Robinson, senior, (uncle of the defendants) who was the defend,
ant in a former ejectment; and who was in possession of the
land at the time of the judgment and sale. It was, thereupon,
objected, that no parol proof could be given of a conveyance of
real estate; nor, generally, of any instrument, without previous
notice to produce it.
But, by the COURT: The present defendant, 'fames Robin.on,
junior, is not the party to the alleged deed; andt, therefore, no
notice could be given to him, within the general rule, for the
production of deeds: nor, if he stands merely in the character
v, a witness to the deed, is he compellable to produce it. There
is, therefore, no way of getting at the title, but the one proposed,
if the defendant in an action, chuses, under such circumstances,
to conceal the muniments of the estate.
The witnesses were, accordingly, examined; and the plaintiff
obtained a verdict, conformably to the charge of the Court.

Zantzinger versus Ketch.

T

HIS was an action of debt on articles of agreement to pay
1351., in two instalnents, for lands bought by the defendant from the plaintiff; and in the articles it was stipulated, that
" thae deed of conveyance shall be made to the said Olichael
4 Ketch at the first payment."
The defendant ofered the parol testimony of a witness, who
was present at the execution of the articles, to shew that by the
expression, " the deed of conveyance," the parties meant and
understood, "a deed conveying the land free of all incun,1 berauccs."

