SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

21

dower) was not discussed, as the judgment was reversed, for 1800.
want of a sufficient description of the parties to the suit, on the
authority of Bingham v. Cabot, 3 Dall 382. and Turner v. The
Bank of .rorth-America. .'nt. But an important point of practice
was previously settled, relative to the mode of ascertaining the
value of the matter in dispute, in actions like the present.
I.or the plaitif in error, it was admitted, in answer to an objection, that the value of the matter in dispute did not appear
upon the record; but it was urged, that, from the nature of the

subject, the demand of the plaintiff could not ascertain it; nor
from the nature of the suit (like a case of ejectment, where
damages are only given for the ouster) could it be fixed by the

finding of a jury, on the judgment of the Court. 3 BI. Com. 35, 6,
As, therefore, there was no act of congress, nor any rule of the
Court, prescribing a mode to ascertain, in such cases, the value
in dispute, that the party may have the benefit of a writ of
error, it was proposed to continue the cause, to afford an opportunity to satisfy the Court, by affidavits of the actual value of
the property.
By the CouRT: Be it so. Let the value of the matter in dispute
be ascertained by affidavits, to be taken on ten days notice to the
demandant, or her counsel in Georgia. But, consequently, the
writ of error is not to be a supersedeas.
Ingersoll and Dalkw, for the plaintiff in error.
E. Tilghman, for the defendant in error.

Blair et al.Plaintiffs in Error, versus Miller et 1.

W

RIT of error from the Circuit Court of Virginia. The
judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court on the 28th
of May 1799, and a writ of error issued returnable to August
term 1799; but the record, was not transmitted, nor the writ returned into the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court, till the
4th of February 1800. Swift objected to the acceptance and return of the record and writ: And,
By the COURT: The writ has become a nullity, beciuse it
was not returned at thetproper term. It cannot, of course, be a
legal instrument, to bring the record of the Circuit Court before
us for revision. (1)
(1) See post. 22. Cource v. Stead e: at.

Rutherford

