CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

April Term 1805.
Present WASHINGTON, a4i Associate Judge of the Supreme Court.
PETERS, District Judge.

Huidekoper's Lessee versus Douglass,
HIS was an ejectment brought for a tract of land, lying north
r and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conewango
creek. The lessor of the plaintiff made title under the Hollandcompany, to whom a patent was issued, upon a warrant and survey.
The defendant claimed as an actual settler, under the act of the 3d
of April 1792. A great many ejectments were depending' upon
the same facts and principles; (1) and on the trial, of another
ejectment, at a former term, WASHINGTON, ',ustice,had delivered a charge to the jury, coinciding, generaly, with the construction given by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, to the
act.of April 1792, from which Judge PETras dissented. It was,
therefore, upon the recommendation of the Court, determined
to submit the questions, upon which the opinions of the Judges
were opposed, to the Supreme Court of the United States, under
the provision made, in case of such a disagreement, by the act of
the 29th of April 1802. 6 vol. 89. s.. 6. The questions were, accordingly, stated, at the last October term, in the following f6rn:
"1st. Whether under the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania
passed on the 3d day of Aeril 1792, entitled " an act for the
sale of the vacant lands within this commonwealth:" the grantee
by warrant of a tract of land lying " north and west of the
(1) For a general view ofthis important controversy, sce the cases reported
ante. p: 170. The Cnnmonwiealth v. '. Coxe, 237. Attorney General v. I'h
Grantees under the Act of 4pril 1792. and ante, p.3 63. Balfours Lessee v. Meade.

rivers

CAsES RULED

AND ADJUDGr.-D,

&C.

.GQs

4 rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conezvangv creek," who, by 1805.
force -f arms of the enemiesof the United States, was prevented %-v-J
from settling and improving the said land, and from residing
thereon, from the 10th day of April 1793, the date of the said
warrant, until the 1st day of '/anuary1796, but who, during the
said period,'persisted in'his endeavours to make such settlement
and residence, is excused from making such a.ctual settlement, as
the enacting clause of the 9th section of the said law prescribes,
to vest a title in the said grantee.
"2d. Whether a warrant for a tract ofland, lying north and west
of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Coneivango creek, granted
in the year 1793, under, and by virtue of the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, entitled " An Act for the sale of vacant
lands, within this commonwealth," to a person, who by force of
arms 'of the enemies of the United States, eWas prevented from
settling and improving the said land, and from residing thereon,
from the date of the said warrant, until the first day of 7anuary
1796, butwho, duringthe said period, persisted in his endeavours
to make such settlement and residence, vests any, and if any,
what title in or to the said land, unless the said grantee shall
after the said prevention ceases, commence, and within the space
of ,two years thereafter clear, fence and cultivate, at least two acres
contained in his said survey, erect thereon a messliage for the
habitation of man, and reside or cause a family to reside thereon,.
for the space of five years next following his first settling the same,
the said grantee being yet in full life.
"3d. Whether a grantee in such warrant as aforesaid, who
has failed to make such settlement as the enacting clause of the
said ninth section requires, and who is not within the benefit of-the
proviso, has thereby forfeited his right and title to the said land,
until the commonwealth has taken advantage of the said forfeiture, so as to prevent the said grantee from recovering the possession of said land in ejectment, against a person who, at any
time after two years from the time the prevention ceased, or at
any subsequent period, has settled and improved the said land
and has ever since been in possession of the same."
The questions were argued in the Supreme Court, at February
tdrm 1805, by E. Tilghman, Ingersoll, Lewis and Dallas, for
the plaintiff; and by M'Kean (attorney general of Pennsylvania)
and IV. Tilghman, for the defendant.
The opinion of the Court was delivered by the ChiefYustice,
;i the following manner.
MARSHALL, Chief Jzu.licc. The questions which occurred in
this case, in the Circuit Court of Plen sylvania, and on which the
opinion of this coprt is required, grow out of the act passed by
the
"F
VOr.. IV.

CASES RUI ED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1805. the legislature of that state, entitled " An Act for the sale. of the
%
vacant lands within this commonwealth."
The ninth section of that act, on which the case principally
depends, is in these words: " And be it further enacted by the
authority aforesaid, that no warrant or survey, to be issued or
"made in pursuance of this act, for lands lying north and west of
"the riversOhio and Alle-ahanyandConewan.gocrelekshallvest any
"title in or to the lands therein mentioned, unless the grantee has,
U prior to the date of such warrant, made, or caused to be made, or
" shallwithin the space of two years next after the date of the same,
" make, or cause -to be made, an actual settlement thereon, by
"cleaiing, fencing and cultivating at least two acres for every
"hundred acres contained in one survey, erecting thereon a
"messuage for the habitation of man, and residing, or causing a
"family to reside thereon, for the space of five years next fol" lowing his first settling the same, if he or she shall so long live;
"and that in default of such actual settlement and residence,
"it shall and may be lawful to and for this commonwealth to
" issue new warrants to other actual settlers for the said lands,
"or any part thereof, reciting the original warrants, and that ac,
" tual settlements a.Jr.residence have not been made in pursu"ance thereof, and so as often as defaults shall be made, for the
" time and in the manner afbresaid, which new grants shall be
uider and subject to all and every the regulations contained
in this act. Providedalways, nevertheless, that if any such ac"tual settler, or any grantee in any such original or succeeding
"warrant, shall by force of arms of the enemies of the United
States, be prevented from making such actual settlement, or be
"c.driven therefrom, and shall persist in his endeavours to make
C'such actual settlement as afbresiid, then, in either case, he
a and his heirs shall be entitled to have and to hold the said
"lands, in the same manner as if the actual settlement had beeti
"made and continued."
The questions to be considered, relate particularly to the pro.
-visoof this section; but, to construe that correctly, it will be necessary to understand the enacting clause, which states what is to
be pertormed by th ptrchaser of a warrant, before the title to
the lands described therein, shall vest in him.
Two classes of purchasers are contemplated.
The one has already'performed every condition of the sale, and
is about to pay the consideration money; the other pays the consideration money in the first instance, antis, afterwards, to perform the conditions. They are both described in the same sen.
tence,'and, from each, an actual settlement is required as indispensable to the completion of the title. In describing this actual
settlement, it is declared that it shall be made in the case of a
warrant previously granted, within two years next after the date
of such warrant, "tby clearing, fencing, and cultivating at least
" two

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

391

"two acres for every hundred acres contained in one survey, 1805.
"erecting thereon a messuage for the habitation, of man, and re"siding or causing a family to ieside thereon -for the space of
"five years next following his first settling of the same, if he or
" she shall so long live."
The manifest impossibility of completing .a residence of five
years within the space of two years, would lead to an opinion,
that the part of the description relative to residence, applied to
those only who had performed the condition before the payment
of the purchase money, and not to those who were to perform it
afterwards. But there are subsequent parts of the act, which will
not admit of this construction, and, consequently, residence is a
condition required from the person who settles under a warrant,
as well as from one who cntitles himself to a warrant by his settlement.
The law, requiring two repugnant and incompatible things, is
incapable of receiving a literal construction, and mhst sustain
some change of language to bc rendered intelligible. This change,
however, ought to be as small as possible, and with a view to the
sense of the legislature, as mairifested by themselves. The reading, suggested by the counsel for the plaintiff, appears to be most
reasonable, and to comport best with the general language of the
section, and with the nature of the subject. It is by changing the
participle into the future tense of the verb, and instead of " and
"residing or causing a familyto reside thereon," reading, and shall
reside, &c. The effect of this correction of language, will be to
destroy the repugnancy which ezsts in the act as it stands, and
to reconcile this part of the sentence to that which immediately
follows, .4nd which absolutely dpemonstrates that, in the view of
the leg'slature, the settlement and the residence consequent
thereon, were distinct parts of the condition; the settlement to
be made within the space of two years from the date of the warrant,, and the residence in five years from the commencement of
the settlement.
This construction is the more necessary, because-the verywords
which prove that resi" such actual settlement and residence,
dence is required from.the warrantee, prove, also, that settlement
and residence are, in contemplation of the law, distinct'operations.
In the nature of things, and from the usual import of words, they
are; also, distinct. To make a settlement, no more requires : residence of five, than a residence of five hundred, years: and, of
consequence, it is much more reasonable to understand-the legislature as requiring the residence for that term, in addition to
a settlement, than as declaring it to be a component part of a
settlement.
The meaning of the terms, settlement and residence, being
understood, the Court will procced to consider the proviso. That

,596.•

CASES RuLED -AND ADDJUDGE5 I;

i.E

1805.
That part of the act treats of an actual settler, under whict.
k
term is intended as well tho person who makes his settlement the
foundation of his claim to a warrant, as a warrantee, who had
made an actual settlement in performance of the' conditions annexed to his purchase," and if "any grantee in any such original
" or succeeding -warrant," who must be considered as contradistinguished from one who had made an actual settlement. Persons thus distinctly circumstanced, are brought together in the
same sentence, and terms are used appropriated to the situation of *each, but not applicable to both. Thus, the idea of "an
" actual settler," "prevented from making an actual settlement,"
and, after "being driven therefrom," "persisting in his endcayours" to make it, would be absurd. To apply to each class of
purchasers, all parts of the proviso, would involve a contradiction
'in terms. Under such circumstances, the plain and natural mode
of construing the act, is to apply the provisions, distributively, to
the description of.persons to whom they are adapted, redde'ado
singula singilis. The proviso, then, would read thus," .Provided
". always, .nevertheless, that if any such actual settler, shall be
"driven from his Settlement, by force of arms oS the enemies of

,the United States; or any grantee, in any such original or 4ucceeding warrant; shall by force of arms of the enemies of the Uni." tedStates, be prevented from making suich actual settlement, and
shdl persist in his endeavours, to make such actual settlement as
'"aforesaid, then, in either case, he and his heirs shall be entitled
".to have and to hold the said lands, in the same manner as if
'tthe actual settlement had been made and continu'ed." The
two cases are" the actual settler, who has been driven from his
settlen'e.nt," and the warrantee, who has been prevented from
making a settlement, but has persisted in his endeavours to make
One.
It is perfectly clear, that in each case, the proviso substitutes
something .for the settlement to be made within two years, from
the date.of the warrant, and for the residence to continue five
years, from the commencement of the settlembnt, both of which
were required in the enacting clause. What is that something?
The proviso answers, that in. case of "an actual settler," it
is his being " driven from his settlement, by force of arms of the
enemies of.the UnitedYtates," and in case of his being a gmntee of

a war -ant, not having settled, it is " persisting in his endeavours
to make such actual settlement." In neither case is residence, or
persisting in his endeavours at residence, required. Yet the legislature had not forgotten, that by .the enacting clause, residence
was to be added to settlement; for ifa
the same sentence they say,
that the person who comes within the proviso, shall hold the land
"as if the actinA settlement had been made and continued."
It is contended on the part of'the defendant, that as the time,

during which persistance shall continue, is not prescribed, the perSQ't

Cir.CYIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA

DrSTRICT.

397

ion claiming the lafnd,, must persist until he shall have effected
both his settlement and residence, as required by the enacting

clause of the act: that is, that the proviso dispenses with the
time, and only with the time, during which the condition iito
be performed.
But the words are not only inapt for the expression of such an
intent; they absolutely contradict it.
If the proviso be read so as to be intelligible, it requires nothing from the actual settler who has been driven from his settlement. He is pot to persist in his endeavours at residence, or in
other words, to continue his settlement, but is to hold the land.
From the warrantee who has been prevented from making a settlement, no endeavours at residence are required. He is to
" persist in his endeavours," not to make and to continue such
actual settlement, but "1 to make such actual settlement as aforesaid." And if he does persist in those endeavours, he is to hold
the land " as if the actual settlement had been made and continued." The construction of the defendant would make the
legislature say; in substance, that if the warrantee shall persist in
endeavouring to accomplish a particular object, until he does accomplish it, he. should hold the land as if he had accomplished it.
But, independent of the improbability that the intention to dispense
only with the time, in which the condition was to be performed,
would be expressed in the language which has been noticed,
there are terms used, which seem to restrict the time, during
which a persistance in endeavours is required. The wartantee
is to persist in his endeavours "'to make such actual settlement
"-as afbresaid:" now, "such actual settlement as aforesaid" is an
actual setdement within two years from the date of the warrant,
and as it could only be made within two years, a persistance in en.
deavouring to make it, could only continue for that time.
If after being prevented from making an actual settlement, and
persisting in endeavours, those endeavours should be successful
within the two years; after which the person should be driven oft;
it is asked what would be his situation?
The answer is a plain one. By persisting, he has become an
actual settler; and the part of he proviso which applies to actual
settlers protects him.
If after the two years he should be driven off, he is still protected. The application of external violence dispenses with residence. The court feels itself bound to say so, because the proviso
contains a substitute, which, in such a state of things, shall be
received instead of a performance of the conditions required by
the enacting clauge; and of ihat substitute residence forms no
part.
In a great variety of forms and with great strength, it has been
argued, that the settlement of the country was the great object ot
the act; and that the construction of the plaintiff would defeat
that object.
That

1805.

398

I

1805.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDaGED IN 'HE

That the exclusive object" of an act to give lands to settlers,
would be the settlement of the country, will be admitted;.but
that an act to sell lands to settlers, must have for its exclusive object
the settlement of the country, cannot be so readily conceded. In attempting to procure settlements, the treasury was certainly not forgotten. How far the two objects might'be consulted, or how far
the one yielded -to the other, is only to be inferred from the words
in which the legislative intention has been expressed. How far
the legislature may have supposed the peopling of the district in
question to have been promoted by encouraging actual settlements,
though a subsequent residence on them should be rendered impracticable by a foreign enemy, can only be shown by their own
language. At any rate, if the legislature has used words dispensing with residence, it is not for the court to say they could
not intend it, unless there were concomitant expressions, which
should explain those words, in a manner different from their ordinary import. There are 6tber considerations in favour of the
construction to which the court is inclined.
This is a contract, and although a state is a party, it ought to
be construed ac~ording to those well established principles which
regulate contracts generally.
The state is in the situation of a person, who holds forth to the
world the conditions, on which he is willing to sell his property.
If he should couch his propositions. in such ambiguots terms
that they might be understood differently: in consequence of
which sales were to be made, and the purchase money paid, he
would come with ai ill grace into court to insist on a latent and
obscure meaning, which should give. him back his property, and
permit him to retain the purchase money.. All those principles
of equity and of fair dealing, which constitute the basis of judicial
proceedings, require that courts should lean against such a construction.
It being understood that the opinion of the court on the two
first questions, hAs rendered a decision of the third unnecessary,
*nodetermination respecting it has been made. (1)
It is directed that the following opinion be certified to the cirbuit court.
1. That it is the opinion of this Court, that under the act of
the legislature of Pennsylvania passed the third day of A.pril,
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninetytwo, entitled " An'act for the *sale of vacant lands within this
commonwealth," the grantee, by a warrant, of a tract of land
lying ndrth and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany and Conevvango creek, who by force of arms of the enemies of the United
(1) Although no opinion was iublicly delivered..on the third question, it
was understod, that the subject had been generall' considered by the Court;
and my information (which cloes nut, however, proceed from the judges themselves) states the result t6 have been favourable to the grantee.

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

S.99

States was prevented from settling and improving the said land, 1805.
and from residing thereon from the tenth day of April one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, the date of the said warrant,
until the first day of 7anuary in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninetv-six, but who during the said period persisted
in-his endeavours to make such settlement and residence, is excused from making such actual settlement as the enacting clause
of the ninth section of the said law prescribes, to vest a title in
the said grantee.
2. That it is the opinion of this court, that a warrant for a tract
of land lying north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany and
Conewango creek, granted in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, under, and by virtue of the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, entitled, "An act for the sale of vacant
"lands within this commonwealth," to a person who, by force of
arms of the enemies of the United States, was prevented from settling and improving the said land, and from residing thereon, from
the date of the said warrant until the first day of Yanuary in the
year 1796; but who, doring the said period, persisted in his endeayours to make such settlement and residence,vestsinsuch grantee a
fee simple inthe said land; althoughafterthe said prevention ceased,
he did not commence, and, within the space of two years thereafter clear, fence, and cultivate, at least two acres for every hundred acres contained in his survey for the said land, and erect
thereon a messuage for the habitation of man, and reside, or
cause a family to reside thereon, fbr the space cf five years hext
following his first settling of the same, the said grantee being yet
in full life.
Upon this opinion "ofthe Supreme Court, the cause was again
brought before a jury; the title was legally deduced from the
state to the lessor of the plaintiff; and the facts of a prevention
from making an improvement and settlement, under the 9th section of the act of April 1792, by a subsisting Indian war, as well
as the facts of a prsistance in the endeavour to make such improvement and settlement, were established, in detail, as they
appear in the case of The Commonwealth v. Coxe, ante. p. 170.
After argument, by In?gersofl, E. Tilghnzan, Lewis, and Dallas,
for the plaintiff; and by .M'Kean, TV. Tilghman, and 1. Levy,
for the defendant, the Tollowing charge was delivered to the jury.
WASHINGTON, 7ustice. The plaintiff appears before you with
a regular paper title from the warrant to the patent.
When this cause was tried before, the counsel for the defendant insisted, that the plaintiff's title was built upon a contract,
which he had not complied with, that he was to make a settleinent, such as the enacting clause of the 9th section requires, unless prevented frbm doing so, by the enemies of the UnitedStates;
inwhich latter case, he was not only to prove a persistance in endeavours

400

CASES RULED AND ADjUDGED I# TE-

1805. ddayours to make the settlemaent, during the period &f the war;
but was to go on to make it, after the prevention ceased. This
question was so difficult, as to divide, not only this Court, but
the Courts of this state. The question was adjourned to the Supreme Court, who have decided, that a warrantee, who,from April
1793, to the 1st of 7anuarq 1796, was prevented, by the enemies
of the United States, from making such settlement as the law required, but who, during that period, persisted in his endeavours
to make such settlement, is entitled to hold his land in fee simple, although, after the prevention ceased, he made no attempt to
make such settlement. This we must consider as the, law of the
land, and govern our decision by it.
The *questionsthen are,
1st. Was the Holland Company, from April 1793,"to Yanuary
1796, prevented from making their settlement? and,
2d. Did they persist in endeavours, during that period, to
make it?
What is the legal meaning of prevention, and persistance in
endeavours? Were they prevented, and did they persist, within
this meaning? The first are questions of law, which the Court
are to decide; the latter are questions of fact, proper for your
determination. What were they prevented from doing, in order
to excuse them? The answer is, from -clearing, fencing, and culti-ating, two acres of land in every hundred acres contained in their
warrant, from building a house thereon,. fit for the habitation of
man, and from residing, or causing a family to reside thereon.
To what extent were their endeavours to go? The answer is, to
effect these objects. It was not every slight or temporary danger,
which was to excuse them from making such settlement, but such

as a prudent man ought to regard. The plaintiffs stipulated to
settle as a society of husbandmen, not as a band of soldiers. They
were iot bound to effect every thing which might be expected
fiom military men, whose profession is to meet, to combat, and
to overcome danger. To such men it would be a poor excuse, to
say, they were prevented by danger, from the performance of
their duty. The husbandman flourishes in the less glorious, but
not less honourable, walks of life. So far from the legislature expecting, that they were to brave the dangers of a savage enemy,
in order to effect their settlements, they are excused from making
them, if such dangers, exist. But they must persist in their endeavours to make theu, that is, they are to persist if the danger
is over, which prevented them from making them. For it would
be a monstrous absurdity to say, that the danger, which, by preventing them from making the settlements, wouMl excuse them,
would not, at the same time, excuse them from endeavours to
make them, so long as it existed. It would be a mockery to say.
that I should be excused from putting my finger into the blAze oi

this candle/Mrovided I would persevere in my endeavours to do
it.

-CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

401

it, because, by making the endeavours, I could do it, although 1805.
the consequeixces would be such as I was excused from incurring. L
If, then, the comprny were prevented from making their settlements, by dangers from a public enemy, which no prudent man
would or ought to encounter, and if they made those endeavours,
which the same man would have made, to effect the object, they
have fully complied with the proviso of the 9th section. How
then are the facts? That a public war between the United States
and the Indian tribes, subsisted from April 1793, and previous to
that period, until late in 1795, is not denied; and, though the
great theatre of the war lay far to the nonh .west of the land in
dispute, yet it is clearly proved, that this country, during this period, was exposed to repeated irruptions of the enemy, killing
and plundering such of the whiteg as they met with, in situations
where they could not defend themselves. What was the degree
of danger produced by those hostile incursions, can only be estimated by the conduct of those, who attempted to face it. We find
them sometimes working out in the day jinme in the neighbourhood of the forts, and returning within their walls, at night, for
protection; sometimes giving up tht- pursuit in despair, and retiring to the settled parts of the country; then returning to this
country, and again abandoning it. We- sometimes meet with a
few men hardy enoug, to attempt the cultiyation of their lands,
associfiting implements of husbandry, with the instruments of war,
the character of the husbandman, with that of a soldier; and yet
I do not recollect an.y instance, where, with this enterprising, daring spirit, a single individual was enabled td make such a settlement as the la* required. You have heard what exertions were
made by the Holland company, you will consider vihat was the
state of that country during the period in question, you will ap.
ply the, principles laid down by the Court to the evidence in the
cause, anAl then say, whethez the title is with the plaintiff or not.
Verdict for the plaiitiff.

VOL. IV.

