214

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800.

Anonymous.
pERTIORARI, to remove the proceedings in a case of forci'-'ble entry and detainer. Ingersoll urged the immediate hearing of the case, in order to avoid the inconvenience of a sentence
of restitution, when great error existed on the record.
By the COURT: It has often been decided, that a certiorari
does not operate as a supersedeas, in a proceeding under the
landlord and tenant act. 1 vol. State Laws, 617. Dall.edit. But
it has never been so decided, in the case of a proceeding, under
the statutes against forcible entry and detainer.

Freeman versus Ruston.
j7BEADITIONI EXPOVAS. A rule being obtained on the
sheriff of Philadelphiacounty, to bring into Court, the money levied on this execution; another rule was, also, entered, to
show cause why Samuel Coates.should not receive out of the money, an equal dividend, or proportion, with other judgment creditors, whose judgments were entered on the same day, and who
have not issued writs of ca. sa. And, thereupon, a case was stated
for the opinion of the Court, comprising the following facts:
11 On the 21st day of March 1796, Samuel Coates obtained
"judgment in the Supreme Court against Thomas Ruston. A
"writ of error was taken out by the defendant, returnable to
"7uly 1797, and judgment affirmed in the High Court of Er"rors and Appeals; and the record being remitted, a ca. sa. was
" sued out of the Supreme Court, returnable to December 1797,
" on which (and other writs of sa. sa. issued at the suit of other
"plaintiffs) the defendant was committed to gaol; and remained
"in custody until the 21st day of November 1798, when he was
discharged from confinement, by virtue of the several acts of
"assembly, for relief of insolvent debtors, for the benefit of all
"of which he petitioned.
" Prior to his said discharge, the above venditioni exponas was
issued returnable to September term 1798; and on the 12th dav
of Yzuly 1798, certain messuages, &c. were sold by the sherif'
"by virtue of the said execution, for 13,320 dollars.
1 The purchasers at these sales were themselves, judgment cre" ditors of the said Thomas Raston. The sum of 11,431 dollars
"'was paid on account of the purchases, before the discharge of
" Dr. Ruston; and the puschasers have retained in their hands
"1869 dollars, part of the purchase monies, on account of their
own judgments; which judgments are, however, subsequent in
1 date

