CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

Conframp et al. versus Bunel.
CAPIAS. On a rule to show cause, why the defendant should
not be discharged on common bail, the following facts were

established by the plaintiff: That in the year 1787, the defendant
gave his note for 55,000 livres, to a person of the namd of Horguetand, payable in two instalments, for value received in 55 negroes. On the 8th of February 1787, the note was assigned to
the plaintiffs, and several partial payments were afterwards indorsed upon it. In November 1789, a suit was instituted at Portau-Prince, to recover the balance; and a judgment, by default,
was entered for 36,666 livres; to recover which was the object
9f the present action.
For the defendant it was shown, that all the parties to the con.
tract were French subjects, resident in the island of St. Domingo,
at the time the contract was made; that they continued French
subjects at this time; that in Augu.st of the year 1793, the French
commissioners (Pulverel and Santhorax)had proclaimed, at Portau-Prince, tde abolition of slavery, and the freedom of the negroes; which the national convention ratified in the February
ensuing; 4 Edw. IHist. West 1nd. 14.6. 219. that, in consequence
of this emancipation, the very negroes, who had been purchased
by the defendant, had been taken from him; and that with a view
to the calamitous situation of the colony, he following laws had
been enacted by the French-government:
1st. Extract from the law of the 6th of Septe;nber 1802.
" Sect. 1.Until the Ist of Vendernaire 16th year all suits are sus-.
pended as weil against the principal debtors as their securities br
" debts contracted prior to the ist of Yanuary 1792, for the pur" chase of real property, or of negroes.
" Sect. 6. The creditors may however take all conservatory
steps for the preservation of their rights, and even have the
C amount of their debts liquidated by judgments, but the execu" tion thereof shall be stayed according to the first section."
2d. Supplement to the above law, of the 12th of April 1803.
The preamble states that doubts have arisen, as to the con.
struction of the 6th article; and the supplement declares,
, Sect. 1. That by the words "conservatory steps" (actes con" servatoire.) are not to be understood any acts, which would
"1 prevent the effect of the suspensive clause of the law, such as
cc attachments of property, levies on real or personal estate, oppoL sitions to the payment of rents, or other debts, &c.
" Sect. 2. Oppositions (in nature of attachments) made to
the payment of principalsums due to the dchtois, shall not pre" vent such payments, but the debtor shall be bound to make it
" appear

419
1806.

420

CASES RULrD AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. 14appear within six months, that he has employed those capitals,

9 in Improving his St. Domingo plantation, otherwise he will not
" be entided to the benefit of the law."

Upon these premises, the defendant's counsel contended, ist.
That the contract of the parties was to be vkpounded and enforced,
according to the laws of Prance. I Bo.. & Pull. 138. z3 Pez. jun.
446. 4 Vez.jun. 577. 1 B. Rep. 258. 1 H. Bl. 665. 690. 4 T. Rep.
184. 2d. That upon the general principles of the French law, the
dei~ndant was not liable to be personally arrested on this contract, which does not constitute a commercial debt. 7. Tit. 1. Art.
Ord. of Corn. p. 386. 3d. That the right of action, to recover the
debt, was expressly suspended by the law of the 6th of September 1802; and it was as irregular to commence the suit, be.4)re
the suspension had run out, as it would be to obtain judgment
and issue execution.
The plaintiff's counsel answered: 1st. That this was a commercial debt, within the terms of the authority cited, for which a
persbnal arrest was authorised by the law of France. 2d. That
the law of the .6th of September 1802, applies to original causes
of action, and'not to cases in which judgment had been previously rendered. 3d. That even where the lex loci governs the
contract, it is the law of the country in which the suit is brought,
that must furnish the form of the remedy. Kaim's P. E. 567, 8.
2 Vern. 540. 3 Dall. Rep. 373. 1 Bos. & Pull. 139, 140.
4th. That the utmost benefit, which the defendant can reasonably
claim from the law of.September 1802, is a stay of execution till
the specified period has elapsed: but, in the mean time, the plaintiffs should be permitted to proceed to obtain judgment, and to
secure the defendants appearance eventually to answer it.
The COURT were clearly of opinion, that the parties were
bound by tht law of the 6th of September 1802; that the present
case was within the law; and that the suspension of the law, ap.
plied as well to the commencement of the suit, as to the issuing
of an execution.
The rule made absolute. (1)
Moylan, for the plaintiffs.
Du Poncean, and Dallas,for the defendant.
(1) The defendant's counsel, proceeding on the grounds above stated, did
not make, on this preliminary question, the objection, that the Circuit Court
has no jurisdiction of a cause, in which both parties are aliens; an objectim.
tbat has, repeatedly, been adjudgea to be fatal.

