SUPREME COURT
OF

THE

UNITED STATES.

August Term 1799,
Present ELLSWORTH, Chief Justice.

j

PATERSON,

). Justices.
CHASE, and
WASHINGTON, J

The State of New-York versus The State of Connecticut

et a.
B ILL in equity. "The State of New-Torh, one of the United
D States of America, by 7osiah Ogden Hoffman, the attorneygeneral of the said state," filed this bill in consequence of the
rejection of the motion, lo grant writs of certiorari,for the re-

moval of Fowler et al. v. Lindsey et at. and Fowler et a?. v.
Miller (3 Dal. Rep. 411.) froin the Circuit Court of Connecticut into the Supreme Court. The plaintiffi in those suits were
made defendants to the present bill; and the complainant, after
setting forth the title of New-Torh to the lands in question, prayed
(inter alia) for an injunction against them. The notices to the
defendants, that the injunction would be moved for, were delivered on the 25th and 26th of Yuly; but, on the 6th of August,*
Ingersoll, who appeared for the individuals, though not for the
state, referred to the act of congress, which provides, that " no
" writ of injunction.shall be granted, in any case, without reason" able previous notice to the adverse party, or his attorney,
"9of the time and place of moving for the same;" 2 vol. 228.
s. 5. Swift's edit. And he contended, that reasonable notice had

not been given in this case.

0 The term coinmenced on the 5th of August, but a quorum of the judges did
not attend till the day following; and CusaING and IREDELL, yustices, were
prevented by indisposition from taking their seats on the Bench, during the
whole term.
VOL. IV.

B

Hoffman,

2
1799.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

Hof7'man, (the attorney-general of NeW-ork) contended that
notice was reasonable in relation to its present object; though
it might not be sufficient for requiring the defendant to put in
an answer, or demurrer, to the bill. The injunction prayed for, is
not a perpetual one, but only till answer, and further order of the
Court. Nor ought the section of the act of congress to be extended by construction; for, a universal application of the rule,
would be unreasonable, and, in many -cases, enable the party to
defeat the very purpose of an injunction. It is questionable, indeed, whether the section at all relates to a motion, either in the
Supreme Court, or the Circuit Court, for an injunction; since
its only object seems to have been, to vest in a single Judge the
same power that the Courts previously possessed, to grant the
writs of injunction and ne exeat. But, at all events, if the Court
shall think notice of such a motion necessary, they will construe
the shortest notice to be reasonable notice, for the purpose of
preserving peace, and effectuating justice.

Sthe

Ingersoll, in reply. With respect to the state of Connecticut, it
is a fact, that since the decision on the motion for a certiorari,
at the last, term, there has not been a meeting of the legislature;
so that it is impossible to ascertain what course she will adopt
on the occasion: and with respect to the individual pltaintiffs in
the Circuit Court, it is a matter of great importance that a trial
on their rights should not be suspended, by the interposition of a
state, whose interests cannot be affected by any decision that
may be given below. It is enough, however, that by the positive
provisions of the act of congress, it is contemplated, that no injunction shall issue, in any case, unless satisfactory reasons are
assigned; and that, therefore, reasonable notice of an application
for the writ, must be given to the adverse party.
The opinion of the COURT was delivered by the Chiefrtustce.
ELLSWORTH, Cl7ief 7ustice; The prohibition contained in the
statute, that writs of injunction shall not be granted, without reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, extends to injunctions granted by the Supreme Court, or the Circuit Court,
as well to those that may be granted by a single Judge.
The design and effect, however, of injunctions, must render a
s9horter notice reasonable notice, in the case of an application tu a
-Court, than would be so construed, in most cases of an application to a single Judge: and, until a general rule shall be settled,
the particul r circumstances of each case must also be regarded.
Circumstanced as the present case is, the notice, which has
been given, is, in the opinion of the Court, sufficient, a it respects
the parties against whom an injunction is prayed.

The

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Same Cause.

T

HE bill in this case contained an historical account of the

title of New-or to the soil and jurisdiction of the tract of
land in dispute; set forth an agreement of the 28th of -November
1683, between the two states on the subject; and prayed a discovery, relief, and injunction to stay the proceedings in the Connecticut ejectments. 3 Dall. 411. As the state had not appeared,
the question of injunction was the only one now argued.
Hlonan (the attorney-general of New-Tork), in support of
the prayer for an injunction, and the general merits of the bill,
urged varous points, with great force and ability. 1st. It is necessary to execute the special agreement between the states. It is a
princi ple of equity, that wherever there is an agreement, as to
a right, whether it is a mere franchise, or a right of soil, it shall
be enforced, and rendered conclusive upon the parties, by the interposition of the Court. The agreement admits that the tract
of land belonged to New.orh; and the bill states, that notwithstanding this admission, Connecticut has since undertaken to grant
a part of i to the plaintiffs in the ejectments. Hence; it became necessary (or the bill would have been incomplete) to make those
plaintiffs, parties tothe present suit. The agreemeht, indeed,
only gives-the equitable title to N~ew.rorA; while the plaintiffs
below possess the legal title, and must, of course, recover in
the ejectmets. A specific performance of the agreement being
decreed against Connecticut, would not be an adequate and complete remedy; and all parties in interest, however remote, must
'be brought before the court, or they cannot be affected by its
proceedings. 2d. It zvilpresent a multiplicit of suits. The bill
is emphatically a bill of peace; since, -considering the character
of the petohe
principal controversy, withoutthhis remedy,
the consequences upon the public tranquillity can hardly be conjectured. It is true, however, that the right of the state of ew'ore cannot be affected by a decision in the Circuit Court; but
till that right is law frlly settled, the number of suits, by individuals, must be indefiItely great; and merely to avoid a multiplicity
of iuits, to cut off, by one decision, various sources of strife and

litigatiOn, is a substantive ground for the exercise of a chancery
jurisdiction. 1 At. 282. 2 AtA. 484. 3d. It is a billfor the discoery of title, which parties in interest, as well as parties in possession, may certainly maintain. 1 ez. 249. (1) 4th.
it
is is a bill to
(1) WASetTOur,
dt.c.-Does
the bill state that the pamtiti gnorant
I&A.9.8.
2Ath 48.
3. I isa bllfr
te s-t
qf the defendant'sjursditio.
title?
Hoffman.. Yes, expressly.
WgsHNOsbe, indutice.Then you aramre, thatifdthenjunction should be
granted upoi tha utof,
must, of course, be dis soues on as the dis.
coven,is obstained
set
ne

V99.

It

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1'99. settle a question of boundary between two states. Of this question
"

the Court can, incontestably, take cognizance; and it will not allow
the decision of the principal matter to be interrupted, or prevented, by collateral considerations; particularly, when the decision of
the. principal, will settle all the inferior matters in disptue. In
Pennv. Baltimore, I Vez. 454. the bill was sustained upon similar
principles; and the jurisdiction there assumed upon principle, in
a case of contested provincial boundary, may surely be exercised
here under the additional sanction of the constitution. 2 Dal.
442. 415. 419. 3 Dall. 1.412. But it is not simply abill to settle
a question of boundary between two states: it involves the right
of soil, which, in relation to a great part of Ne--ork, results
from the right of jurisdiction; so that deciding the latter, is virtually a decision of the former. In this respect New-21ork is, perhaps, distinguished from her sister states, whose claims of territory are, generally, founded upon positive grant; while her claim
of soil is a mere incident of the sovereignty and jurisdiction, with

which the revolution invested her. (2)
Ingersoll, against granting the prayer for an injunction. In the
suits below, the state of Arew-TorA is not a party, and cannot be
affected by their decision; while the defendants below are not
parties to the present bill, though they are the persons most likely
io be injured by those suits. But no part of the bill states, that

any of the land belongs to Nezv-Tork ; so non constat that she is
interested in the question of soil; and the question of state boundary cannot be decided, as between the states, in the Circuit
Court. (3)

There is no instance of the interposition of a court

of
(2) PATERSON, Yustice. Generally speaking, the proposition is true, that,
as to states, jurisdiction and the right of soil, go together.
(3) ELLSWORTH, 'Chief uStice. If the bill contains no averment of a right
of soil in New-rork, I think it must be defective, and lays no foundation for an
injunction. To have the benefit of the agreement between the states, the defendants below (who are the settlers of N.e-2ork) must apply to a court of
equity as well as the state herself; but, in no case, can a specific performaice be decreed, unless there is a substantial right of soil, not a mere political
jurisdiction, to be protected and enforced. Besides, is not the bill, likewise,
defective for want of making the defendants below parties to it?
CHASE, Yustice. The validity of the grant of either state must depend upon
the question of boundary; for, neither JewV-ruork, nor Connecticut, could grant
land, which it did not own. Hence, I think, the question of boundary must necessarily arise in the suits below.
PATERSOk, qUtice. On the question just proposed by the Chief justice, it
may be remarked, that some difficulty would occur in sustaining a bill in this
court, at the suit of the defendants below. But it does not appear to me, that
any of the cases in the books apply to the present case. What does the bill
present? A case of disputed boundaries between two states; and the question
of soil, on their conflicting grants, must be decided by the question ofjurisdiction. The state of Connecticut has granted out the dore. The state of .Newn2"ork has, also, granted out the Gore. The grantees of Connecticuthave brought
suits in Connecticut against the grantees of Wess-a'ork, and will obtain possession
of the land. If the grantees of Xerw.Tork are thus cvicted, they will bring suits
ift

SUPREME .COURT OF THE UNITED STATVS.

5

of equity, by way of injunction, unless upon the application of 1799.
a party immediately interested in the subject of the common law
suits, or there is property likely to be withdrawn. 1 Ch. Prec.
186, 7. Gilb.' Ch. 19. 2 Dall. 402. 5 Bot. Car. Canc. 439.
Rind. Ch. 585. Besides, there is a regular course, in which
the judgment of this court, independent of its equity character,
may be obtained; as by a writ of error, on a demurrer to evidence,
the construction and effect of the alleged agreement between the
states, might here be revised, and*authoritatively declared; and
" suits in equity cannot be sustained in any Court of the United
" States, in any case where plain, adequate, and complete remedy,
" may be had at law:" (4) 1 vol. 59. s. 16. Cowp. 215, 6. 2 H.
Blach. 187. An eventual responsibility cannot constitute a party
to the suits below. The several states should, in justice, refund
the price of the confiscated estates, if those, wbo have now brought
suits against the purchasers under their respective laws, should
succeed; and Pennsylvaniawas bound, in honour, to compensate
Gineral Irwine, for the loss of Montour's island, on the failure of
the title derived from her grant: 3 Dall.Rep. 425. but, surely,-such
considerations will not constitute parties to a judicial proceeding.
As to a discovery of title, by whom, and against whom, is it
sought? One party to the suit, does not require it from another;
but a third pers6n requires it, in a suit, to which he is not a
party, and the decision in which cannot affect his right, whatever
it may be.
Lewis, for the complainant, in reply. The difficulties of the case
are obvious to all; and, unless the present remedy is applied, the
difficulties will dangerously increase. If the lands are not in
Connecticut, the ejectments are coram non judce. If they are
tiot in New-Torh, suits there would be equally objectionable.
Neither state will be satisfied, however, by the judgment of a
Court held in the other and for want of a peaceful forum to
decide the controversy, an odious and vindictive litigation may
be perpetuated. But this Court has a constitutional jurisdiction on
a question-of boundary between'states; and, upon such an occasion, will be eager to exercise it. The interest of New-Torh, too,
is sufficient to justify the exercise of it, upon her application. The
right and possession of a sovereign state, are not to be treated
like the usufructuary right, the possessio pedis, of a farmer. A
sovereign state possesses what she governs. But is not NAew-rorh
'interested, even in a pecuniary point of view, so-as to claim the inin 2evwrohr, and, in their possession. But where will this feud and litigation
end? It is difficult and painful to conjecture, unless this Court can, under the
constitution, lay hold of the case to decide the question of boundary, which
will be a decision of all the appendages and consequences.
(4) PATzasOr, yusdtlce. The rule was so before, and is so independent of
the provision in the act of congress.

terposition

6

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGEL

1799.

.N THE

terposition of this Court, to which her settlers, the defendants
Sbelow, cannot originally resort? It is a fundamental principle of
the law of nature and of nations, that every government is bound
to preserve peace and order, to protect individuals, to indemnify
those who trust to its faith, and to prevent a dismemberment of
its territory. This political and moral obligation, enforced by a
regard to her public improvements, and fiscal operations, creates
an interest of the highest character in the government ofNe-r orh;
and such as the Court will cherish with all its benevolence and
authority. 21 Vin. Abr. 181. p1. 1. Ibid. 183. p1. 4, 5. 7. Ibid.
p1. 8. 11. a Black. Com. 255, 6.
The CoURT, after advisement, delivered their opinion, that as the
State of New-2 ork was not a party to the suits below, nor inter-,
ested in the decision of those suits, an injunction ought not to
issue.
Injunction refused. (5)

The same Cause.
S the state of Connecticut did-not appear, Hofman moved that
appear on the first day of next term, or that the
plaintiff be then at liberty to proceed ex parte. 3 Dal.335. But
Lewis observed, that the rule required that a subpoena issuifig
in a suit in equity, should be served sixty days before the return;
which had not been done in the present case. The first motion
was, thereupon, waived; and an alias subpoena awarded. 3 Dal.
320.

Ashe should

Hazlehurst et al. versus The United States.
N error from the Circuit Court for the district of South-Carolina. A rule had been obtained by Lee, the attorney-general,
at the opening of the Court, that the plaintiffs appear and prosecute
their writ of error within the term, or suffer a non-pros.: hut it
was found, that errors had been assigned in the Court below, and
(5) Hof-man. In every grant by New-1art, there is a reservation of gold and
silver mines, and of five acres per cent. for roads. The bill might, besides, be
amended, by averring the state to be interested in a residuum of the land, if
that would be sufficient to sustain the prayer for an injunction.
WASHINGTON, .fusticte The amendment would "not satisfy me; fbr, my
opinion is founded upon the fact, that New-Tork is not interested in. the suits
below.
CHAsE, %Mdeice. It is a mere bill to settle boundaries; and we must take it
as we find it; not as it might be made.
ELLSNOaTH,

ChiefyztYia.

If there had been a quorum of jdges, without

my attendance, I should have declined sitting in this cause. As it is, I am glad
that the opinion of my brethren, dispenses with the necessity of my taking a
part in the decision.
a joiiider

