SUPREME COURT OF P'ENNSYLVANIA.

1802.

Fitzgerald versus Caldwell's Executors.
VTIHE original cause being remitted to the Supreme Court,
upon the decision of the High Court of Errors and ApI
peals, (1) this scirefacias was brought to enforce the judgment
against Caldwell's executors, returnable to September term 1798;
and issue was therein joined upon the plea of "Payment. "
To maintain the plea, the defendant's counsel, recapitulated
the facts set forth-in the report of Fitzgeraldv. Caldwell, 2 Dall.
Rep. 215.; and contended, that, while the attachments were depending, Caldwell was not liable for interest; that as soon as the
original question had been decided, upon the trial of one of the.
attachments, (in 7anzary 1793) favourably to the claim of the
present plaintiff,. Caldwell, at his own peril, paid the principal
sum, due at the time the note was given to Fitzgerald;(2).that no
question of interest was decided by the High Court of Errors
and Appeals; and that the judgment of that Court, is not a bar
to the inquiry, in the present suit, whether any thing is due,
either for principal, or interest.
For the plaintiff, it ,was urged, that by the agreement of the
parties, the judgment nisi, rendered on the report of the referees,
in 7anuary 1791, was made absolute, with a stay of proceedings,
till one of the attachments should be tried; that this judgment,"
being for asum certain, to wit, 5009L 5s. ld. carried interest, of
course, unless the terms of the agreement, or the operation of
13.
right;
1 StateLawr,
attachment,
affected the
law, inedit.
cases
of in
Dall.
that
point of morality,
as well
as raw,
Caidwell, who
had long detined, and advanageously employed, the money of
another mafi, was bound to make a reasonable compensation for
the use; that the decision of the Supreme Cuurt, releasing Ca/dwell from the payment of interest, was the very foundation of the
writ of error; and that the High Court of Errors and Appeals

(.1) Seet thasthe
writ of error waayinstituled, 2 Dell. Re
215. And the judgment of the High Court of Errors and Appeals, Iid.
216. (')
(2) The principal sum paid, was the amount due in
1782
saril the
or
amou t reported to be due by the refeiees (50091. 5*. Id.) and tbr which the
judgment was rendered absolute as of nuast 1791. The claim of the plaintiff, on the :cirefad, was therefore, founded upon thE
rbowin calculation:

Report ofreferees in
tanuary
1791of e.......
Two years interest, till payment in
1793,
Reduct thc amount paid inanuary 1793..

..
.

£.

5009 5 1

.anuar,
. .
601 0 0
5610 05 01
. 3250
2360 3 1

Interest on the ,alance till payment.

(whose

252

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN ThE

1802. (whose sentence could not now be revised, modified, -or annulled) had not only affirmed the judgment rendered in January
1791, for the fixed sum of 50091 5s. id., but had expressly reversed the order to discharge Caldwell, on payment of the principal sum.

t-,-.'

SHIPPEN, Chief Yustice. We have neither the power, nor the
inclination, to impair the judgment of the High Court of Errors
and Appeals, by asserting a contrary opinion, in point of law;
nor by admitting evidence to undermine its authority with the
jury. The judgment of J1anuary 1791, with all its legal inci-.
'dents, can only now be affected, by proof of actual payment and
satisfaction. As to the principal sum for which the judgment is
affirmed (5009/. 5s. Id.) there must be no dispute; and we can
only now consider that part of the defendant's argument which
insists, that, at.least, upon the amount of the judgment, no in
rest ought to be allowed.
An act of the general assembly has declared, "that lawful in"terest shall be allowed to the creditor, for the sum, or value,
"he obtained judgment foi, from the time the said judgment
"was obtained, till the time of sale, or till satisfaction be made.'
I State Laws, 13. Interest is, therefore, generally speaking, a le.
gal incident of every judgment: but, it is contended, that the
present case ought to be excepted from the rule, because an immediate payment was not contemplated by- the parties themselves; and because the judgnent was made absolute, on-the express condition, that it should wait the trial of certain foreign attachments.
The agreement, on which the judgment was made absolute,
is recognised in the decision of the High Court of Errors and
Appeals, "1according to its terms." The genuine meaning of its
terms can only be ascertained, by considering what was the real
subjett in dispute under the attachments. In the attachment that
was tried in January 1793, the dispute appeared to be simply,
whether the evidence of 1Moore's interest in the debt, due from
Caldwell to Vance, Ca/dwvell and Vance, amounted to an assign.
ment, legal or equitable. The meaning of the agreement, there.
fore, must have been to stay proceedings on the judgment, till
that subject was investigated. Now, the subject was completely
-investigated on the trial, to which I allude; and the jury determined, that the debt did not remain subject to attachments, as a
debt stilld':e to Vance, Caldwell, and Vance; but had been previously
appropriated and assigned to _11oore and J7ohnson. It is true, that
the decision of the High Court of Errors and Appeals recognises the. agreement generally"; and that the agreement, in its
own general terms, embraces a trial of all ihe attachments: but,
if the -first attachment could not prevail, it is improbable that any
-ubsequent attachment would succeed; and, I repeat, that in the
spirit

254

SUPRE14E COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

sipirit of the agreeement, a discussion and decision of the princi- 1802.
pie, was alone contemplated.
In this vicw of the case, the only point to exercise the discretion of the jury, will be (not whether any interest shall be allowed upon the judgment, but) from what period the interest shall
begin to run. The judgment being made absolute by the agreement, a reasonable time should, perhaps, be allowed for a trial,
as contemplated by the terms of the agreement; but when the
trial in January 1793, had fixed the right of Moore andj7ohnson to the debt, as assignees of Vance, Caldwell and Vance; and
when Caldwell himself had acquiesced, in the verdict, by paying
what he thought due, without demanding an indemnit7; the
Court cannot perceive any legal, or equitable, ground, upon
which the right of interest'should be longer suspended.
Upon the whole, we think, that interest ought not to be allowed, upon the sum -fixed by the judgment of 7anuary 179[, until
the decision in January1793; but that the interest ought to run
from that period. Although Caldwell himself asked no indemhity, on the payment which he made, we shall think it proper, in
aid of the executors, to direct an indemnity against the attachments to be given, before the amount of the verdict, on this oceasion, is paid.
Verdict for the plaintifT. (1)
E. Tilghman, Lewis, and Dallas, for the plaintiff.
Ingersoll, and sfiKean, for the defendants.

The Commonwealth versus Gibbs.

T

HIS was an indictment, on the 17th section of the election
law (4 State Laws, p. 342. Dall. edit) which provides
(among otl er things) that "if any officer of the election shall b&
c threatened, or violence used to his person, or interrupted in
" the execution of his duty, every person who shall be guilty of
" such intimidation, threats, violence, or interruption, being con" victed thereof, shall be fined and imprisoned for the same, at
"the discretion of the Court, not exceeding six months imprison.
"ment, nor exceeding one hundred dollars fine."
The facts were briefly these: Mr. Beckley, the prosecutor,
was appointed a judge, at the general election in October 1801.
Mr. Gibbs, the father of the defendaut, presented his ballot, but
before accepting it, Mr. Beckley insisted, that he should answei

the following questions: 1st. Did you, at any time during the
(1) The indemnity was given to the satisfaction of the Judges, and the ex.

ecutors paid the amount of the verdict into Court. Thus i'irminatcd in 1802.
a suit commenced, in fact, t\%enty ye- --s before..n 178el

American

