CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

April Term 1806.
Present WASHINGTON, an Associate Judge of the Supreme Cojurt.
PF.TrTS District Judge.

Th1e United States versus Richard Joluis.
T p-HIS was a prosecution, on the 2d section of the act of con..Lgress, of the 26th of March 1804, (7 vol. 126.) which is
expressed in these words: c4 Be it'fitrther e acted That if any
"c person shall, gn th& high seas, wilfully and corruptly, cast away,
" buni, or otherwise destroy, any ship or vessel of which he is
cc owner, i part or in whole, or in anywise direct or procure the
" same to be done, with intent or design to prejudice any person
"c or persons that hath underwritten, or shall underwrite, any
"policy or policies of insurance thereon, or if any merchant or
merchants that shall load goods thereon, or of any other owner
"or owners of such ship or vessel, the person or persons offending therein, being thereof lawfully convicted, shall be deemed
and adjudged guilty of felony, and shall suffer death."(1)
In the course of the prosecution and frial, the following points
occurred.
1. The defendant was brought, by habeas corpus, before the
Court, holdin, an adjourned session, on the 8th of Yanua'y
1806, when it appeared that, on the 27th of December 1805, he
f I) The second member of the section is so inaccurately expressed, that the
attorney of the district thought, at first, there must have been some error of
the press; butthe secretary or state inibrmed him, that the printed copy was
fatind, upon a comparlson, to agree ciactly iith the rolL Sce the analogous

Euglirh stj~tutcs, 4. Geo. 1. c. 12.

3. 11 Geo. 1. c. 29.

CAS s RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

41.s

had been committed by the mayor of the city of Philadelphia, 1806.
"charged on the oath of Andrew Glarke with having on the 20th %
day of August last, or thereabouts, on The high seas, scuttled
" tnie schooner Enterprizeof Baltimore, with intention to defraud
the underwriters, as he believes."
The prisoner's counsel objected, 1st. That the commitment was
vague, and did not describe the offence, within the words of the
act of Congress. 2d. That the offence was hot committed within
the district of Pennsylvania;,and no demand having been made
for his surrender by the executive of any other state, there was
no law to warrant his arrest, or detention. 3d. That the evidence
was not siifficientlystrong, to found an indictment against hini
and he was entitled, at all eveits, to be discharged on bail.
It was answered, by the attorne, of the district, Ist. That whatever might be the formal defects of the original commitment, the
Court, being now satisfied with the evidence, would remand thtprisoner for trial. 2d. That it was not nedetsary, for that purpose,to give positive proof of guilt; but to show probable cause
for the accusation. 3d. That the case did not come, at all, under
the constitutional, or legislative, provisions, for the surrender of
a fugitive from the justice of another state; but it was the case
of a crime against the United States, committed on tha high seas;
when the trial is directed to be in the district, where the offender
is apprehended. 1 vol. 103. s. 8. 1 vol. 72, 3. s. 33.
By the COURT: Upon a habeas corpus, we are only to inquire,
whether thewarrantof commitmeht states asufficient probablecause
tobelieve, that theperson charged,has committed the 0ffencestated.
We have heard the evidence; and cannot ddiubt of its sufficiency
td that extent. We do not think, that the prisoner ought either to
be discharged, or bailed. He must be remanded for trial.
Il.When the panel of jurors was called over, the prisoner's
counsel claimed the right of challenging thirty-five jurors peremptorily, as the offence, charged iii the indictment, had been created, since the act of the 30th of April 179Q (1 vol. 113. s. 30.)
and the right of challenge remained as at common law. 4 Ha.,.
S89. 4 B!. C.
. The clause, respbcting challenges is in these'
words: "If any person, or persons be indicted of treason against
" the Unitcd States, and shall, stand mute, or refuse to plead, or
shall challenge peremptorily above the number of thirty-five of
thejury; orifanyotherperson, orpersons, beindictedof anyrother
" of the offences hereinbefore setforth, for which the punishment
"is declared to be death, if he or they shall so stand mite, or
" will not answer to the indictment, or challenge peremptorily
"above the number of twenty persons of the jury; the Court, in
anv of the czsm aforesaid, shall rietwithstanditig proceed to the
,.rhii

414

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDgeD IN THE

1806. " trial of the person or persons so standing mute, or challenging,
~1"as if he or they had pleaded not guilty, and render judgment
" thereon accordingly."
The attorney of the district said he was indifferent which way
the Court decided the point; but it was proper to remark, that the
29th section of the judiciar act referred, generally, to "the state
law, for the rule relating to juries; (1 vol. Ml) that the state
law limited the right of peremptory challenge, in cases like the
present, to the number of twenty; that the 30th section of the
penal act (1 vol. 112.) obviously considers the whole law of peremptory challenge provided for, in future, as well as existing,
capital cases; and that it was improper to refer to a common law
rule, if a rule was prescribed by statute.
PETERS, tustice. The words of the penal act, when they restrain the common law right of peremptory challenge, also expressly confine the operation of the restraint, to the offences before set forth in the act. For offences not set forth in the act, the
only rule is furnished by the common law; and it is the'privilege
of the prisoner, that it should be applied and enforced.
WASHINGTON, Y/ustice. The right of challenge was a privilege

highly esteemed, and anxiously guarded, at the common law; and
it cannot be doubted, but that at the common law, a prisoner is
entitled, on a capital charge, to challenge peremptorily, thirtyfive of the jurors.' If, therefore, the act of congress has substituted
no other rule (and, in the present irstance, it is clear that none
has been substituted) the common law rule must be pursued.
It is not easy, indeed, to assign a reason, for introducing the
words, that confine the provision, respecting peremptory challenges, to offences before set forth in the act; but it is enough to
bind our judgments, that the words are actually introduced. (2)
II. The indictment contained four counts: 1st Count. That the
prisoner being owner, in whole, of a certain ship, or vessel -called
the .nterprize of Baltimore, "the Baltimore Insurance Compa"ny, by their president, and under their corporate seal attested
"1by their secretary did subscribe and underwrite a certain policy
"Of insurance upon the said ship, or vessel, called the Enterprize
" in the sum of 2700 dollars upon a certain voyage &c. And the
" said Richard /ohns well knowing the premises wkh intent and
" design wilfully, corruptly, unlawfully and feloniously.to preju" dice the said Baltimore Insurance Company &c. and by means
(2) In the case of the UMited State v. Ru, rel, on an indictment for murder
on the high reas, tried at October term 1806, the prisoner's counsel, at first,
claimed the right of peremptorily challenging thirty-five jurors; but, that being an offence set forth in the penal law, was expressly embraced by the provision limiting the peremptory challenges to twenty'; and the claim was, acn:.,'dingly, oicr-ruled.
"(
Of

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA T]STRICT.

415

of the aforesaid insurance unjustly to acquire to himself unlaw- 1806.
"ful and corrupt gain and advaitage on the &c. with fcrcr and t
,arms on the high seas &c. wilfully corruptly unlawfully and
"feloniously did cast away and destroy the said ship or ,essel
"called the Enterprize in and upon the voyage in the said policy
"of insurance mentioned &c. to the great damage of the said
"Baltimore Insurance Company, against the form of the-act of the
" congress of the United States &c." 2d Count. That he coinmitted the felony, by feloniously boring auger holes through the
bottom of the vessel. 3d Count. That he feloniously directei and
procured. the vessel to be cast away and destroyed. 4th Count.
That he feloniously -directed and procured the vessel to be casi
away and destroyed, by feloniously
boring auger holes through
"
vessel.
the bottom of the
1st. The president of the-Baltimore Insurance Company wa!
offered as a witness, to prove the order for insurance, and the
subscription to the policy. The prisoner's counsel objected to his
competency; and cited 1 P. Wins. 595. 1 l'NiVall. 52, 3. But the
objection was over-ruled.
2d. A copy of the manifest of the outward cargo of the Experiment, certified under the hands and seal of the custom-house
officers of Baltimore, was offered in evidence, after proof by the
witness, that he had himself compared it with the record. The
prisoner's counsel objected, that there was no evidence, that the
original manifest was subscribed by the prisoner, or even delivered
by him. The district attorney answered, that by the 21st sectit-n
of the impost law (4 vol. 311, 312.) it was made the duty of the
collector of the port, "to record, in books to be kept for that
purpose, all manifests ;" and that, being a record, the proof offered
was unexceptionable.
By the COURT: In that point of view, the evidence is clear'l
admissible.
3d. The policy of insurance, under the corporate seal of the
company, signed by the president and attested by the secretary,
was offered in evidence. The prisoner's counsel objected, that
the charter of incorporation must be produced, before any corporate act, or instrument, could be given in evidence. The attorney
of the district opposed the objection, on account of the difficulty,
which the precedent would create-in future prosecutions: but the
COURT deeming it necessary to establish the corporate capacity of
the Insurance Company, he read the acts of the'legislature of
farymand on that subject, from*the statute book, published by
authority; and these beingiimited in their du.ration, he offeredt
an exemplification of a 'ecent act, protracting the existence of the
corporation at, and beyond, the time of subscribing the policy in
question.

416'

CAStS RULED AND ADJUbGED IN THR

1806. question. The exemplification, however, was under the groat
seal of 7faryland, but was not attested by the governor, or any
other principal officer, of the state. The prisoner's counsel ob.
jccted to the want of such attestation; but the objection was overruled.
By the CoURT: The act of congress declares, "that the.acts of
"3the legislaturesof the several states shall be authenticated,byhav41ing the seal of their respective states affixed thereto." 1 vol. 115.
It docs not require the attestation of any public officer in this
case; although in all the cases afterwards provided for, such an
attestation is required. There is a good reason for the distinction.
The seal is in itself, the' highest test of authenticity; and leaving the evidence upon that alone, precludes all controversy, as to
the officer entitled to affix the seal, which is a regulation very
different in the different states.
4th. On' the evidence in the cause, various grounds of defence
were adopted by the prisoner's counsel, Levi., Rawle, S. Levy,
.. 'Ewing, and C. Ingersoll,and controverted byDallas,attorney
of the district, of which the principal were these: 1st. That the
second section of the act of. congress does not expressly authorise an indictment against an Aneican citizen; and it would be
an usurpation of legislative power, to extend its operation tO
aliens, committing offences on the high seas. 2d. That the act
does not expressly embrace the case of an insurance by a corporation;, and a corporation is not included in the description of
Persons. 3d. That the *ndictment describes the Experiment to be
a ship or vessel, which is not sufficiently specific. 4th. That in
fact, and in law, the vessel was not cast away and destroyed.
5th. That if the vessel were feloniously destroyed, the evidence
does not prove the prisoner to be the felon. (3)
The COURT, in the charge to the jury, having reviewed and
commented upon the facts, observed, that the objections, in point
of law, would appear on the record, and'might be taken advantage of, upon a motion in arrest of judgment. On the law, therEfore, the COURT avoided giving any opinion at present, except in
relation to tho question,-wlat constituted the destruction ;f a
ship, or vessel, within the meaning of the act of congress? On
this question, they haddeliberated much; and, as the result, reduced to writing 'an opinion, which they delivered, in 'charge to
4

() In the coutse or the defence, the following authorities were cited:
2 East, . C. 1097,8S. - fahnsan's Dict. "~Cast-away." 83Mad. 67. ca. 48. 16. M4
cm. 52. 4 Hawk. 67- 62. 2-Bzirr. 1037. PlozAS 177. 1 Leach, 215. Rex v. Harrison.
"2 Stra. 124f. 8 Md. 66. 1 Hate, 635. 2 Hale, 389. 8 Inst. 202. 4 Bl. C. 881.
Leach, 109. Con. Iterp. 2 .Anth. c. 25. z. 58, 59. Ab.c. 23. s. 8 2 Rol. Ar. 30.
5
M d. 137, 8. The attorney of the district cited I Leach, 215. 1 Bl. C. 467.
2
.Zrst. 702. 1 Woodes. 195.

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNcSYLVANIA DISTRICT-.

417

the jury, in these words: "To destroy a vessel, is to unfit her 1806.
"1for service, beyond the hopes of recovery, by ordinary means.
" This, in extent of injury, is synonymous with cast away. It is
1' the generical term: casting away is a species of destroying, as
" burning is. Both mean such an act, as causes a vessel to perish,
" or be lost, so as to be irrecoverable by ordinary means."
The defendant was acquitted, owing, it is believed, to a doubt,
whether he had bored himself, or directed any other person to
bore, the auger holes in the bottom of the vessel; which was a
new vessel, picked uii at sea, after she was abandoned, carried
into St. _ago de Cuba, and there (the holes being discovered)
soon repaired, and fitted again for sea.

Symonds versus The Union Insuance Company.
TJHE plaintiff had effected, at the office of the defendants, three
policies of insurance, dated the 12th of Septenber 1803.
The first on the schooner Diana,.Nicholas master, valued at 4500
dollars; the second on the freight of the schooner, valued at 1500
dollars, and the third on her cargo, valued at 4000 dollars; on a
voyage, "at and from New--Tork to Cape Franyoiswith liberty to
"proceed to another port, should Cape Franfoisbe blockaded, and
cc the vessel prevented entering that port, from that, or any other;
" cause, and at and from thence back to New-rork." The order
for the insurance, declared "that the assured is not to abandon,
c if she cannot enter the Cape from blockade or-other cause, but
9 liberty is given to proceed to some other port."
The schooner sailed from New- 2ork, on the 19th of September
1803, with instructions "to proceed to C'ape Franfois; and, if she
"could not enter, from blockade or other cause, to steer towards
the Bite of Leogane, and enter either into Port-au-Prince,or
"some other port in the bite." On the 8th of October,shewas boarded, off the island of St. Domingo, by an officer from the Blanche,
a British frigate, who sent her papers on board the Bellerophon,
another British ship of war. On the next day capt. Nicholas was
taken oii board the Bellerophon, and was informed, "that the
°9 island of St. Domingo was blockaded by an English squadron,
11in consequence 'of which no vessel would be permitted to enter
"any port or harbour, in the said island;" and, to that effect, the
register and papers of the schooner were indorsed. It appeared,
also, from the captain's testimony, "that he was told he was not
"permitted to proceed on his intended voyage, nor to go to Gtba;
but should proceed down to TZingston, .7amaica;that he was
ordered to keep near the frigate Desire, until they had cleared
CL the island of St. Domingo; that on his arrival at Kingston, he
"' was, also, told by the custom-house officers, that he could not
"clear
3H
%'or.IV,

