1,9b
1793.

CAsEs RULED

AND ADJUDGED IN THE

subject, for the sake of certainty and uniformity, in the adminis.
Stration of justice: and, perhaps, (such is the rapid progress of
population and public improvement) the Court may, in future,
incline to adopt it.

Stansbury versus Marks.
ASE. Plea, Non .Assumpsit. The defendant offered to give
infancy in evidence on this plea; to which the plaintiff objected. But
By the COURT- The evidence is clearly admissible. Under
the general issue, however, the jury may decide, whether the
evidence is sufficient to discharge him, or not. The position is
generally true, that an infant can only bind himself for necessaries; yet, in the Court of Chancery, cases occur, in which a
payment would be decreed, contrary to the strict rule of the common law. In this form of action, equity is the principal consideration; and, from necessity, the Courts of law, in Pennsylvania, adopt the principles of the English Courts of Chancery.

J.Conrad versus Conrad et al. Administrators of
G. Conrad.

HIS was an action on the case, brought by 7amnes Conrad
the natural son of George Conrad, against the administrators
of his father, in which a declaration was filed, containing two
counts: 1st. Upon a special agreement, that if the plaintiff would
live with the intestate, and work his plantation for six years, the
intestate would give and convey to him 100 acres of the land.
2d. Upon a quantumnmeruit, for work and service. Pleas, Non
assunpsit, and the statute of limitations.
Upon the trial of the cause, it was proved, that .7acobConrad
having expressed an intention to leave his father's and learn a
trade, the father said to him, with some solicitude, "Stay and
" work the plantation till you are of age, and I will give you a
" hundred acres of it." It also, appeared, that 7acob did remain
with his father, and worked the plantation ably and diligently;
that the father had three legitimate children, two sons and a
daughter, and three illegitimate children, ,acb, and two daughters; that the two legitimate sons worked with Yacob on the
plantation; that the father once intimated an intention of putting
Yacob on footing with his other children; that the plantation consisted of about 260 acres, and was appraised at 750L.; and that
Zacob Conradwas well maintained, clothed, and schooled, while
,- remained with his father.

