SUPREME COURT
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1795.
Respublica versus Mulatto Bob.
NDICTMENT for murder of the first degree. The charge
of the COURT was delivered by the Chief 7ustice, who stated
the facts and the law to the following effect: (1)
M'K.AX, Chief f.ustice. The evidence in this case may be
comprised in a few words. It appears, that a wedding being
fixed for Baster Monday, a considerable number of negroes assembled; and, about 10 o'clock at night, a quarrel arose between
mulatto Bob, the prisoner at the bar, and negro. David, the deceased. For awhile, the parties fought with fists; and the prisoner was heard to exclaim ccEnough.!" The affray, however;
became general, and continued so for some time.- When it was
over, the prisoner went to a neighbouring pile of wood, and
furnished himself with a club. He was advised not to use it, but
he declared that he would, and entered the crowd with it in
his hand. After remaining there about ten minutes, he left the
crowd, without his club; and, again repairing to the wood-pile,
took up an axe. Being, likewise, dissuaded from returning to
the crowd with the axe, he said " he would .do it; and striking
the instrument, with great passion, into the ground, "€swore,
" that he would split down any fellows that were saucy." Accordingly, he mixed once more among the people; a struggle
(1) DurIng the trial the counsel for the prisoner offered a negro slave as a
witness in his favour; but, the attorney-general objecting to his competency,
he was rejected, witiout argument: and it was said by M'KEAN, "Chiefyugtice, That it was a settled point at common law, that a slave could not be a
witness, because of the unbounded influence of his master over him; which
was, at least, equal to duress: that the act of assembly was in aid of the common law, not to change its principles: and that it would be difficult to administer an oath to a slave, for wanta fknowing any religion he professed.

VOL. IV.

U

was

[46

CAgEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

17:" . was ,.nmediately heard about the axe; the prisoner then struci.
deceased with it on the head; the deceased fell; and as he
was ottempting to rise, the prisoner gave him a second blow on
the head with the sharp edge, which penetrated to the brain.
After languishing three days, death was the consequence of this
wound.
From these facts, we are to inquire, what crime the prisoner
has committed? Murder, in the first degree, is the Zvilful, deliberate, and premeditated killing of another.* There are various
inferior kinds of homicide; but, on the present indictment, our
attention is confined to a consideration of the highest, and most
aggravated, description of the crime. Then, let us ask, did the
prisoner wilfuly kill the deceased? It is not pretended, that there
was any accident in the case; and, therefore, the act must have
been wilful. Was the killing deliberate and premeditated? or
was it the effect of sudden passion, produced by a reasonable
provocation? There had been a combat with fists; but this was
over, when the prisoner, without any new provocation, first procured a club, and, losing that weapon, afterwards armed himself
with an axe. It cannot surely be thought, that the original combat, was a sufficient provocation for the prisoner's taking the life
of his antagonist. An assault and battery may, indeed, be resisted and repelled, by a battery more violent; but the life of a
fellow creature must not be taken; unless in self-defence.
It has been objected, however, that the amendment of our penal code, renders premeditation an indispensable ingredient, to
constitute murder of the first degree. But still, it must be allowed, that the intention remains, as much as ever, the true
criterion of crimes, in law, as well as in ethics; and the intention
of the party can only be collected from his words and actions.
In the present case, the prisoner declared, that he would split
the skull of any fellows who should be saucy; and he actually
killed the deceased in the way which he had menaced. But, let
it be supposed, that a man, without uttering a word, should
strike another on the head with an axe, it must, on every principle by which we can judge of human actions, be deemed a
premeditated violence.
The construction which is now given to the act of assembly on
this pont, must decide, whether the law shall have a b~neficial,
or a pernicious, operation. Before the act was passed, the prisoner's offence would clearly have amounted to murder; all the
circumstances, implying that malice, which is the gist of the definition of the crime at common law: and if he escapes with impunity, under an interpretation of the act, different from the one
which we have delivered, a case can hardly occur to warrant a
conviction for murder in the first degree.
Sthe

I Sec Fel,.

LalS, 3 Vol 599, 600. s 2 Dall. cdit.

Tenderness

SUPREME COUKT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

141

Tenderness and mercy are amiable qualities of the mind; but 1795.

if lhe,. are exercised andindulged beyond the controul of -easonr,

and the. limits of justice, for the sake of individuals, the peace,
or.er, and happiness of society, will inevitably be impaired and
end(angered. As jar as respects the prisoner, I lament the tendency of these observations; but as far as respects the public, I
have felt it a sacred duty to submit them to your consideration.
Verdict, guilty (1).
Holloback versus Van Buskink,
tor, &e.

surviving Administra

Racroth et Ux. versus The Same.

T

HESE were actions bn the case, in which the plaintiffs declared on a general indebitatus assumpsit, for money had
and received by the defendant (who was the surviving administrator, cum testamento annexo, of Catharine H-olloback) to their
use, respectively. They claimed distributive shares in the residuum of the estate of CatharineHollobach, under her will: but
it was questioned, whether such actions would lie, without proving an assumption, on the part of the defendant?
The COURT, however, declared their opinion, that the actions
might be maintained, without proof of an express assurpsit;
and .verdicts were, accordingly, given for the plaintiff§, with
leave to move for new trials.*
Anonymous.

T

HIS was an action on the case for obstructing a water
course, by which the plaintiff's meadow was watered. On
the trial, it appeared, that the defendant had purchased a mill,
with notice that the vendor had before sold the meadow in
question to the plaintiff, covenanting that th plaintiff might use
the water, over and .above what was necessary for the mill. The
defendant obstructed the water course; and it seemed to have
been his object, by so doing,'to compel the plaintiff to sell the
meadow to him.
On these facts, the CoURT recommended (with thei concurrence of the counsel on both sides) that the defendant should do
(1)

This indictment was tried at Easton, on the 21st of yznze 1795, before

.,
M'KaA.
*

Chieffustice, and S-IT31,

Decided before YEATES

Priubin October 1795.

ittce.

and SN'UTri

.tstices,

at Xrorthainpton, Nisi

