SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA..

September Term 1791.
Donaldson versus Means.

T-HIS

was an action brought by the indorsee of three bills of
exchange, against the indorsor. On the trial, it appeared,
that the bills were drawn in 4pril 1776, at thirty days'sight, by
NathanielNewton, on Wilt and Hobson of London, in favor of T.
Arrstrong,andindorsed successively byArmstrongandby l$eans,
the defendant; that the bills were presented, and noted for nonacceptance, on the 24th of _Zkarch 1777; and that they were presented, and protested for non-payment, on the 26th of April 1777.
The question to be decided, was, whether due notice had been
given to the defendant of the protest of the bills; or he had done
any act, which amounted to a waiver of notice?
On this point, a letter was produced from the plaintiff to his
father, dated the 10th of May 1778, advising of the protest, and
inquiring where Means resided. It was proved, that the father
showed this letter to Means, as soon as possible after it was received, and Means repeatedly promised to remit the amount of
the bills; but the protest was not exhibited to him, and never asked for; nor was any application made to the drawer, or to the first
indorsor, for payament. Another letter was produced, dated the
12th of August 1779, written by the defendant at Philadelphia,
to the plaintiff at St. .Eustatia, in which he mentioned, that he
had received a letter of the year 1776, referring to the protested
bills; expressed a hope, that they would soon be paid; observed,
that for want of a protest he had not been able to get payment
from the drawer; but promising, nevertheless, to paythe amount
to the plaintiff, whenever it was in his power to make a remittance.
For the plaintTl, it was contended, 1st. That during the war,
when continental money was a tender, the holder of a bill of exchange

110
1791.
---.

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

change should not be required to pursue that strict punctuality,
which might properly be exacted from him in a time of peace,
and when his debt was not liable to be discharged in a depreciated paper correncv. 1 Dall. 271. That notice being in fact received of the dishor.oured state of the bills, it was not necessary
in law to produce the bills and the protests; and that since the
letter of A,tgust 1779, the plaintiff relied upon the defendant's
new promises of payment. 2d. That even if a protest ought to
have been transmitted, yet, as the defen.dant, with a full knowledge of all the circumstances, has made a new assumption, it is
too iate for him to take advantage of the omission in that respect.
For, aichough want of notice may be considered, originally, as
tantamount to payment; there are many cases in which. the rule
doc s not apply, or is dispensed with. As, where the drawer of a
bill has no assets in the hands of the drawee; or where the drawer himself waives the right and benefit of notice. 1 T. Rep. 408, 9.
ButlL. N. P. 272. 276. 2 T. Rep. 713. And in the latter case, if
he knows the fact, though he is ignorant of the law, he shall be
bound by his waiver. Doct. and Stud. 303.
For the dejendant. Independent of the special promise alleged
by the plaintiff, the defendant cannot be charged on the bills of

exchange; for, a protest is essential to enable any of the parties
to recover against the others; and it must be exhibited. The law,
in this respect, is founded on good sense.. By exhibiting the protest, the holder of the bill shows, that he looks to the person,
whom he addresses, for paymerit; and by delivering the protest,
upon receiving satisfaction himself, he enables that person to
pursue his remedy against those who are ultimately responsible.
But- 1st. There is nothing in the letter of August 1779, which
can be regarded as an express, unqualified, promise. The whole
letter must be taken together. It complains of a want of the protest; and its general spirit is no more, than a declaration, that
" although the protest ought to have been sent, as it is presumed
"to have been received, yet the holder shall not be permitted to
2d. Even regarding it, however, as a promise, it is
" suffer."
not legally binding, if it was made under a mistake. 5 Burr. 2670.
2 T. R Ip. 64M8. Cop.287. 1 P. 1,ny. 357. 2 Chant. Cas. 154.
By the COURT: The law upon the subject is so clear, that the
whoie case rcso1v,:s itself into the question of fact, on which the law
is' to arise. If the proof is satisfactory, that the defendant, under
a knowledge *ofall the circum';tanccs, absolutely promised to pay,
he is, incotites:ably, bound by his promise. But, if his engagement was of a conditional naiure, that he would pay, when the
protest was transni-ted; or if any material fact was unknown to
h:m at the time of making the promise, the verdict should certainly be in his favour.
Verdict for the plaintiff.

Ccxe, for the plaintiff.
E. Ti1ghman, tor the defendant.

