304

0

ASE

RILED AND ADJUDGED IN THF.

1804.

Rundle versus Murgatroyd's Assignees.

k

HE point agitated upon the trial of this cause, turned on the
validit) of a mortgage given to the plaintiff by Ikhurgatroyd,
to secure to his wife, the amount of a legacy, which had been
bequeathed to her, by her grandmother. It appeared, that in the
year 1784, Alurgatroyjdhad entered into articles of agreement
with trustees, by which he engaged to secure the legacy, in case
he should become insolvent. He received the money, and mixed
it with his other pecuniary funds; but took no steps to secure
the amount for his wife, until the execution of the present mortgage, in .farch 1802, when he was insolvent, and was soon afterwards duly declared a bankrupt.
T

The case was considered, as a case of marriage settlement, by
the counsel on both sides.
In support of the settlement, the following authorities were
cited: 6 T. Rep. 154. 2 Bous. & Pull. 582. 6 T. Rep. 80.
.2 Atk. 558. 1 Ath. 192. 1 P. Wms. 459. 2 Dall. Rep. 199.
In opposition to the settlemerit were cited, I FbnbL. 271, 272.
2 Atk. 480, 1. 8 T. Rep. 82.
SHiPPEN, Chief ustie. The mortgage given by AMurgatroyd
is resisted on behalf of his creditors, upon the general ground,
that it was given in contemplation of bankruptcy. There is but
one exception to the rule, which declares a conveyance so given
to be void; namely, where a creditor obtains a preference, by
urging his debtor for payment, and threatening him with legal
process. Th6 only question, therefore, is a matter of fact, whether 3lurgatroyd,at the execution of the mortgage, contemplated
bankruptcy, and meant voluntarily t6 prefer the particular creditor? If the evidence proves the affirmative, the mortgage is void;
but, if otherwise, it is lawful and valid.
It has been urged, in favour of the plaintiff's claim, that whatever may have been the situation of Murgatroyd, at the time of
executing the mortgage, the act was done, in pursuance of a
previous agreement, entered into for a valuable consideration,
when he was perfectly solvent. It would be grateful to our feelings on the present occasion, could we express sentiments favourable to the maintenauce and fortunes of a wife and children;
but we cannot seek that gratification, through a sacrifice of the
established prindiples of law. The agreement was executory;
and although it had relation to a possible insolvency, it might,
perhaps, independent of the bankrupt law, have been carried into
effect. But no antecedent contract, can make the mortgage valid,
upon the provisions and principles of the bankrupt law, if Maurgatroyd

J

SuPRtr. COURT OF PEtNNSYLVANIA.

gatroyd actually gave it, wheni he was insolvent, upon the eve of 1804.
a legal banki'uptcy. The general creditors had then acquired an
interest in his estate; and it was too late to perform an engagement for giving preferences and securities, at their expense, to
any particular creditor.
The law respecting marriage settlements, is the same in England and in Pennsylvazia. It requires a fair motive, as well as a
valuable consideration; and the interest must be actually declared
and vested, at the time of a settlement, or it cannot prevail
against the rights of honest creditors.
The present case, by no means resembles the case ot general
Stewart'ssettlement. There, Mr. lIP Clenachan, on his daughter's
marriage, delivered to general Stewart a large sum in certificates
of public debt, expressly stipulating, that those certificates should
be held and appropriated to the use of Mrs.' Stewart and the
'children of the marriage. General Stewart always kept the fund.
represented by the certificates, distinct from his own immediate
funds; and although he subscribed them, first to the new loan
of Pennsylvania, and afterwards to the"general loan of the United
States, constituting the funding system, it was traced and ascertained, that the real estate specified in the deed of settlement
(which, it is true, was made long after the marriage) had bean,
iu fact, purchased with the actual proceeds of the original certificates, delivered by Mr. 3M'Clenachan upon the marriage. But.
here, the bequest of the legacy was made without stipulation, or
condition; the money being received by 2.'urgatroyd,was blended with his other property, so that a separate existence, or application, could never be traced; and, under these circumstances,.
he acquired a credit, which would be false and delusive indeed,
were the property now withdrawn, upon an obsolete and latent
pretence, from the creditors who trusted to it.
-u
.tice. I am, likewise, of opinion, that the mortgage
S1t 1,
must yield-to the superior legal and equitable claims of the general creditors. It is a sound and uniform rule, that settlements
made upon a wife and children, by persons who have 'not a sufficient estate to pay all their debts, are void against creditors. The
decision upon general Stewart's settlement was not a departure
from the rule; but simply a recognition of the marriage portion
of Mrs. Stewart, transformed and ascertained in -a new shape.
The late, as well as the present, Chief Justice, and myself, delivered our opinions at large in that case; and united in the restilt, for the reasons that have been suggested; none of which
can be assigned in favour of the present claim, under the'mort.
gage.
' The jury, according to the charge, found a verdict for the
defendant. (1)
(1) The validity of general Stewart's settlement was tried in Decemberterm
1799, in an amicable ejectment brought by Blanchard's Lessee v. lngersoll. The

.p: tri.l may b reduced lo the followig case-:
fhcts proved mponh
P
Vo. IV

n

306
1804.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE
On the marriage of genera! Steivart iith the daughter of Mr. J1'Clenacha;:,
in the y.ear 1781, he received, in real and personal estate, a portion of 40,0001.
Pennylvaniacurrency; of which loan office certificates, for money loaned by Mr.
.M'C'enachanin 1777, constitttted about a moiety, bearing interest at six per
ceult. per annum. In delivering the certificates, Mr. M'Cenachantold general
Stewuart, "that he might use the interest, but that the principal of the certificates should be settled on his wife and children, and appropriated sacredly to their exclusive use and benefit;" and general Steivart promised expressly
to make the stipulated settlement and appropriation Soon afterwards general Stevoart entered into partnership with Mr. A. Aresbit, and prosecuted
an extensive scene of commerce, upon funds chiefly furnished y Mr.
MU'Clenachan. In the yeai 1785 general Stewart went to Enigland, leaving the
certificates in the hands of his partner (with whom they had been spccitic..ly
-deposited several years before) and taking a written receipt and promise. to
return them to him, or to his order, on demand. While in .England, he made
a will, dated the 7th of October 1787, which bequeathed the certificates to his
wife and children, but did not refer to any previous agreement, or promise to
do so. lie returned to America in 1787, and soon afterwards, assigned the certificates in trust to Mr. .M'clenacanand his partner, for the use of his wife
and children, by a deed dated the 9th of yune 1788; which was, also, silent
as to any previous agreement upon the subject; but referred to the will of
1787, or any other last will which he might make, for the apportionment of
the ftund. The certificates were subscribed to the new loan of Pennsedeania;
but were re-exchanged, and finally subscribed to the loan ofthe Unitet State.
The public stock having risen to.its full nominal value, general Steirt proposed to Mr. 1M1'Clenachan (Mr. Zcobit being dead) to sell it, and vest the
proceeds in houses, and city lots, as oftering a better speculation; to which
Mr. 3f'Clczachan assented, upon the original principle, that the investment
should be for the use and benefit of general Stewart's wife and children. The
stock was, accordingly, sold and transferred, between Yune 1791, and April
1792; and the property in question was purchased, between ufarck 1792, and
Iebrumy 1793, to the value of about 25,000 dollars. On the 20th of Xzy 1793,
general Stoeart executed a deed before two witnesses, conveying this properly toMr. .M'Clenachan, and his son, George PI'Clenachan,in trust; and after
recitin. the deed of trust of 1787, the subsequent sale of the certificates, the
investment of the proceeds, and the intention, that the real estate, shall be.
held to the same uses, as the certificates, according to the apportionment of
the will of 1787, or such other last will, as general Stewart might make, it
concludes with reserving a power of revocation, by consent of both parties, to
sell the trust estate, and to vest the proceeds in other funds, but in the name
ofthe same trustees, and fin' the same uses. The deed being executed, general Stewart delivered it to Mr. 2M'Clenachan, who deposited it, for safe keeping (as le resided in the country) with other valuable papers belonging to
hims-lf in an iron chest, kept by general Steivart in his counting-louse. General Stcsart died on the 14th of Yune 1796, having, a few hours previously,
made a will devising -and bequeathing all his estate, real and personal, with a
power to sell and convey, for the payment of his debts, and constituting Mrs.
Sterwart an executrix, anl Messrs. VM'Cenachan, JP' Tilghman, and F Vest exe.
cutors, without referring to the deed of settlement, or any previous agreement
upon the subject. In Ala1, 1793, and ,tthe time of his death, lie was generally supposed to be in affluent circumstances; but about four months after his
death, a contrary suspicion arose, which subsequent events have confirmed.
In taking the inventory of his efilcts, the deed of settlement was found; but
the executors regarde'd it as incomplete and invalid. While, too, the executors thought the estate rich, Mr. X'Cenachan himself requested that the
deed should be laid aside; and he and Mrs. Stc-.art joined the other execu!
tors in selling and conveying part of' the trust piopertA, for the payment of
debts, under the pou1 er given in the will of 1796. The falilure of Afurris and
2icholson's notes (in which general Stewart and Mr. N 'Clcnachan had specolated largely) and other disappointments, proved fatal to the estate; and it
estimate, the general balance of general
wvas even ascertained, that, on a fair
Stewart's account of property and debts, was against him, at the time that he
executed the deed of 1793: but, on t4e other hand, lie was dearly sovent
hen
%c

3O'A

SUPREMiE COURT OP PENNSYLVANIA.
when he executed the deed of 1788. Under these circumstances, Mrs. Ste-art
consulted her counsel, on the validity of the deed of 1793, representing all the
previous facts (which had not been adverted to, while general Stevart's estate
was thought solvent) and was advised to prove and record it. This was done,
i;nthe 27th of February 1797, before any judgment had been obtained against
general Stequart; and the trustees, having surrendered and assigned the trust
estate, to Mr. InZersoll in Yune 1797, an amicable ejectment wvas instituted, for
the purpose of settling-the conflicting claims of the widow and the creditors.

1804.

The counsel for Mrs. Stewart, (IF. Tilghman, Levis, Ingersoll, and Dallar)
contended, that marriage was in itself a valuable consideration, to entitle
the wife to a provision even out of her husband's estate, independent of her
own; that a voluntary settlement, after marriage, by a husband, nut indebted,
is valid, with, or without, a consideration on the part of the wife, against
all subsequent creditors; that an agreement for a settlement made in writing,
before, and in contemplation of, marriage, will always be carried into effect; that a parol prcmise of a settlement, made before, and in contemplation
of, marriage, is equally valid in Pennsylvania, although the law upon the
subject has been altered in England, by an act of parliament; and that even
where there is no previous agreement bet ecen
the parties, a Court of Equity
will never grant a wife's personal property to her husband, until he has
made an adequate settlement upon her. As to the facts of the present
case, it was argued, 1st. That before the marriage, a contract was entered
into between Mr. M'Clenachan and general Stewart, bond -fide, and upon
tvaluable consideration. 2d. That the settlement, now controverted, waq
made in pursuance of that contract, from the proceeds of the certificates, spe.
cifically traced, which constituted the original consideration. 3d. That the perThrmance of the contract, was enforced by the principles of moral and social
obligation; and is in strict conformity to the direction, which a Court of equity,
or of law, would give to the appropriation of the fund thus ascertained. 4th.
That it was not essential to the validity of the deed, that it should be proved
and recorded, except as against purchasers and judgment creditors, whose
rights
interests
are not in question.
"The and
folloti
ing authorities
were classed and cited by the counsel for Mrs.
Ste-vart. I Atk 15. 2 Vez. 18. 2 Eq. Abr. 51. .21.3. Cro. Y. 454. 1 Vez. jun. 196
1 Dall. R p.193. 430. 1 Atk. 168. 2 Atk. 519, 520. Ainbl. 121. 2 Ath. 448.
Ambl.506. 1 Eq. Abr. 19. lunb. 187. 2 P. Wrns. 316. 1 frent. 194. Cro. Y. 158.
Coup. 432. 2 Vern. 167. Prec. Ch. 208. 1 Fonbl. 88. 2 .tL. 419, 420. 1-P. Irmn.
382. Prec. Ch. 548. Prec. Ch. 22. 1 Dall 414. 2 P. T15. 414. AmbL 409.
The aounsel for the genertd creditors, (E. Tilghlnan and Leiy) urged the
great inconvenience and injustice of allowing a mere verbal conversation, of
eighteen years standing, 'to be the foundation of withdrawing from creditors,
sto
great a mass of the debtor's apparent property. The inception oftbe alleged
contract, is without writing, and without any witness; but the father, who was
a party to it It is admitted, however, that even a parol agreement, iffairly pro'.
ed, anfd legally carried into effect, must prevail inPennsylvania.But transactions,
honest between the parties themselves, often become fraudulent, in relation to
others; and the purest e2ecutory bargains between individuals, are liable to be
defeated, upon general principles of public policy, unless they are executed
with strict legal publicity and fbrm. In the present instance, every thing con;.pres to beget caution, in the admission of the widow's claim. The trust deed
of 1788, makes no allusion to a subsisting contract, between general Stcluart
and Mr. M 'Clenachan; nor does it make an apportionment of the fund among
the widow and chilten. The subject of the trust was apaper medium, as negotiable by delivery as a bank note; and shifting as it did from new loan to
federal stock, fiom stock to money, on what rational ground (considering, particularly, that general Stewart held similar certificates and similar stock in his
own right) can it be sustained, that the purchase ofthe real estate, was made
with the proceeds of the identical certificates delivered on tbd marriage? But
the settlement, being made of land, it is a voluntary settlement, within the
principles and the provisions of the statutes; and it is not to be conceded, that
a verbl agi eement t) settle certificates, constitutes a aluable consideration,
for

308
1804.

CAsEs RULED A-li ADJUDGED IV THE
for the settlement of lanzls', by the ostensible owner, having become actualit"
indebted. The deed is not only void, as it contains a clause of'revocation, ant
cannot be regarded as a legal settlement; but it is fraudulent, as it remained
in the possession and power of the grantor. In the course of this argument,
the following authorities were cited: 2 .Bu.t.
226. 3 Co. 81. 1 Burr. 475. 2 Vrer;.
510. 1 At. 168. 2 Ath. 481. 1 Aek. 15. 2 Vez. 10. 11. 2 Vern. 510. 3 Co. 82. b

2 Freem. 236.
The CounT (composed of MIKEA-,, Chief justice, and SHiiPpt. an':
SMITH, yustice:) delivered their'opinions, unanimously, in favour ofthe set-

tlement; and the jury found a verdict accordingly.

Duncason versus M'Lure.
T 'HIS was an dction of trover for the ship B
),"ezon,
,ent
which the defendant had purchased, under a sentence of
condemnation as prize, pronounced by the French Provisional
Tribunal of Prizes, established in the city of St. Domingo. The
material facts of the case were these: (1)" Mr. Duncanson, an
English gentleman, came to the United States with a view to
settle; and, in order to manifest his intention, took an oath of
allegiance to the state of Penfisylvania, though he had not been
long enough in the country to entitle himself to naturalization,
under the act of congress. Contemplating a circuitous voyage
from America to England,and thence to the East-Indies, he applied to Messrs. Willings and Francisto procure a ship for him ;
and those gentlemen agreed absolutely with Mr. Thomaw Mfur,gatroyd,for the purchase of the ship Mlount Vernon, owned bvhlim;
the bill of sale being made out, and delivered to them, upon terms
of payment precisely ascertained. It, then, however, occurred to
Mr. Duncanson, that as he had not yet acquired the rights of
.American citizenship, he could not enjoy the advantages, which
he proposed to derive from his projected voyage. For, the trade
from England to the East-Indies is, by the law of that kingdom,
a monopoly; no British subject can, individually, embark init,
without incurring a forfeiture of his vessel and cargo; though it
has recently been adjudged in England,that an American citizen
is entitled to carry on the trade, by virtue of express stipulations
in the treaty of amity and commerce between the United States
(1) This introductory statement of the facts, is transcribed from the charge
ofthe Court, in the action brought upon a police: of insurance, on the AfMroun.
Vernon. 3 .Dall.Rep. 491. Upon more mature consideration, the opinion there
delivered, was over-ruled in the present cause, by the same Court; nnrl,
was,
virtually, condemned in the Circuit Court of the United States, where an action of replevin had been first instituted, in the name of"murgatroydv.
L'.Lure.
See post. The name of Mr. Duncanson was now used, without his knowledge,
or consent, for the benefit, it was suggested, of the underwriter', who had
paid a total loss, under the former decision, and Messrs Willingw,
a"
nd,
who were in advance fur the outfits of the ship. It %%asobjected, that the
names ofthe real parties should zmppear on the record. but the .l,ertion v a.not sustained by the C6urt.

