SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

March Term 1800.
The Commonwealth versus Tench Coxc, Esq.
September term last, a rule was obtained, on behalf of a
number of persons, who had associated under the lenomination of" The HollandCompany," for the purchase and 3ettlement
of lands, lying in the county of Aliegl-hmy, north and west of the
rivr, Ohio and Alleglhany, and west of bnewango creek,by which
the secretarv of the iand office was directed to show cause, why a
mandamus should not be awarded, commandinlg him to prepare
and deliver patents to the company, for various tracts of land, for
which warrants had previously issued in their favour, under the
act of the general assembly, passed the 3d of April 179 . The
attorney-general (.i'Kean) l. Levy, TV. TilgA:X:an, and Cooper,
now showed cause for discharging the rule; and Lewis, E. Tilgh.
man, Ingersoll, and Dallas argued for making it absolute. In order, however, to introduce, with perspicuity and advantage, a discussion of the important question involved in this case, it is necessary to give a general view of the facts and circumstances,
which produced the controversy.
By the charter granted to Wfilliam Penn, on the 14th of 0March
1G81, (1)he became the proprietor of the soil embraced within the
boundaries of Pennsylvania. The charter title, however, was fortified, as well since, as before the revolution, by successive purchases from the Indians; whose claim may be considered as fairly
and finally extinguished, throughout the territory of the state, by
the treaty of fort Stanvix, on the 23d of October 1784; and the
treaty of fort [1'Intosh, on the 21st of Yanuary 1785. (2) IndcIN

(1) See 1 vol. State Lat,, in Appendix, p. 1. Dall.edit.
(2) For a referenci to the purchases from the Indians, and to the laws re.
4pecting lands and the land office, see 1 ,ol
p. 5. S9. 248. 503. 891. 908. 2 vol.
21201. (e)3 -ol. 209. and, generally, the proper titles to the index in Dal-

pendent,

17]

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

pendent, too, of the charter, the boundaries of the state have been 1800;
defi nd and enlarged, by judicial decisions, by compact, and by
purchase. A controversy on the subject early arose between the
proprietaries of Pennsylvania and Maryland; which was finally
adjusted in the year 1750, by a decree in the Chancery of England, enforcing the specific performance of an agreement, which
the parties had entered into in the year 1732. (3) The visionary
and extravagant pretensions of Connecticut, extending to lands
westward, as far as the South Sea, began to annoy th'e peace of
.Pennrzlvania so earlv as the year 1753; (4) and although the
ligh:s of sovereignty and jurisdiction, after much irritition, and
conflict, were at last, in the year 1782, authoritativelydecided to
belong to the latter state, the intruders under the spurious title
of Connectcut, continue to assert a private right of soil, over a
considerable tract of Pennsylvania.(5) The western line of the
charter boundary, corresponding with the meanders of the river
Delaware, remained undefined by actual survey; and it was, for
a while, difficult to ascertain the limits between the jurisdiction
of Pennsylvania and Virghna; but the two states, actuated by a
just and friendly spirit of compromisei appointed commissibners
to run a line of separation; and their repoit upon the subject was
adopted and established in the year 1784. (6)- On similar principles, the jurisdiction and property of the islands in the river Dela-warehad been.settled between Pennsylvaniaand .ev-jerse.y in
the year 1783. (7) And in the year 1792 the state completed the
present range of her territory, by obtaining a formal grant from
the United States of a triangular tract of land, bounded by lake
Brie: which tract had been ceded and relinquished by resolutions
of congress of the 6th of 7une, and 4th of September 1788; and
the Indian title was purchased, and extinguished by commissioners, appointed by the state, in )anuary 1789.
The settleme nt and cultivation of Pennsyltania, have, at all
times, been the favourite objects of her government. The pro.
plietaries, while the soil and jurisdiction were vested in them,
resisted every attempt of individuals to purchase lands from the
Indians: but permitted a free access to the land office, or board
of commissioners, which they instituted, either for the purpose of
obtaining original grants, or for the purpose of comlileting equ.18'.
8"o Cases in Chancery temnp.
(3) See Proud's letr"ofPem::.;.h, aa 1
Ld. Hardwicke, 332. Peina v. Baltimore, 1 Vez. 444. S. C.
(4) For a history of the rise and progress of the claim, see a pamphlet published in the year "1774,by Dr. I/lliim Snjtith, the late provost of the college
of Philadelphia.
(5) For the proceedings, which terminatcd in the decree of Trenton, see the
Yournals qfCongress, for the year 17.81, 7 ',ot. p. 160. 171, &c.
(6) See 2 vol. p 207.
(7) See 2 Tol. p. 143

table

172

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED I1 THE

1800. table titles, within the territory over which they had themselves
"
extinguished the [ndian claim. The ownership of the unappropriated soil, naturally passed with the political sovereignty, from
the proprietaries to the commonwealth, upon the principles of the
revolution; and accordingly the legislature, on the 27th of Noveniber 1779, assumed the general territorial rights of the proprietaries; but, at the same time, confirmed to them all their private estates, and sach proprietary tenths or manors, with the rents
reserved on them, as had been surveyed and returned into the
land office, belbre the 4th of 7uly 1776: granting also a sum of
130,0001. sterling to the Penn family, as a mark of gratitude for
the services of the founder of Pennsylvania.(8). This change in
the o,%nership of the soil, rendered in necessary to provide, under
the authority of the state, 'for pre-existing claims to particular
tracts of land, taken up and located tnder the proprietary grants,
warrants, and other office rights. With that view, exclusively, a
land office was opened in the year 1781; (9) and in the ensuing
year a board of property was instituted, with power " to hear and
"1 determine in all cases of controversy or caveats, in all matters
41 of difficulty, or irregularity, touching escheats, warrants on es(4 cheats, warrants to agree, rights of pre-emption, promises, im"t perfect titles, or otherwise, which heretofbre have, or hereafter
CC may, arise, in transacting the business of the land office." (10)
The earliest direct appropriations of any of the territoryof the state
for public use, subsequent to the revolution, were two provisions;
the first for laying off a tract of land, to redeem the depreciation
certificates, which had been issued to the officers and soldiers of
the Pemuylvania line; and the second for laying off another tract
of land, to satisfy the donation, which had been promised to the
same troops, by a legislative vote of the 7th of A/arch 1780; both
tracts lying north and west of the rivers Ohio ard Alleghany, and
Conewango creek. (11) On the 13th of April 1784, however, the
land office was opened, for granting and disposing of such of the
unappropriated lands,'as had been previously purchased from the
Indians, at the rate of 10/. per hundred acres: (12) and soon af.
wards, it was extended to the sale of lands within the purchase
then made, or about to be made, at the rate of ;301. per hundred
acres; (13) the proceedings being regulated, so as to secure impartiality in the treatment of applicants, by an act of the 8th of
April 1785. (14)
From this operation of the land office, thus opened, the reservations were confined, 1st, to islands within the rivers Susquehanvah, and its branches, the Ohio, the Alleghany, and the Dela.
(12) See 2 co.p. 201.
(8) See 1 otl p. 822.
2
(13) See 2 vol. p. 234. 1st Dec. 1784.
(9) See I col. p. 891.
(10) See 2 vol. p. 21. 5th April 1782. (14) See 2 vol. p. 311.
(11) Sce 2, vol.p. 88. 12th

. arcl 1783.

wa:re;

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

173

ware; 2d, to the appropriated lands north-westward of the Ohio 1800.
and Alleghany; 3d. to the triangular tract on lake Brie, purchased L-r-0
from the UnitedStates; and, 4th, to certain bounties, or gifts, conferred on religious, or scholastic, institutions, and pre-emptive
rights granted, or recognised, by law. But a great port16n of
the valuable land of the state being sold, an act was passed on
the 3d of April 1792, for the sale of all the remaining vacant
lands .within the commonwealth. By this act the price of the vacant land within the purchase of the year 1768, and all prior purchases from the Indians, was reduced to 50 shillings for every hundred acres; the price of the vacant land within the limits of the
purchase of the year 1784, and lying east of the river Alleghany
and Conewango creek, was reduced to 51. for every hundred acres;
and all other lands belonging to the commonwealth, lying north
and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conewango creek
(not specifically appropriated) were offered for sale, "to persons
" who will cultivate, improve, and settle the same, or cause the
" same to be cultivated, improved, and settled," for the price of
V. 10s. for every hundred acres, with an allowance of six per
centurn for roads.
The manner of locating, surveying, and securing, to the respective purchaser , the tracts of land, claimed, either upon warrants, upon actual settlements completed, or upon actual settlements commenced, may easily be traced in the several sections
of the act: but as the present case depends particularly on a construction of the ninth section, it is proper to recite it here at large:
"And be it further enacted, &d. that no warrant, or survey, to
ccbe issued, or made, in pursuance of this act, for lands lying
" north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conecczwango creek, shall vest any title in or to the lands therein men"c tioned, unless the grantee has, prior to the date of such war" rant, made, or caused to be made, or shall, within the space of
" two years next after the date of the same, make, or cause to
c be made, an actual settlement thereon, by clearing, fencing,
"and cultivating, at least two acres for every'hundred acres con"tained in one survey, erecting thereon a messuage for the habi"tation of man, and residing,-or causing a family to reside there"on, for the space of five years next following his first settling
" of the same, if he or she shall so long live; and that in default
" of such actual settkment and residence, it shall and may be law" ful to and for this commonwealth, to issue new warrants to other
" actual settlers for the said lands, or any part thereof, reciting
" the original warrants, and that actual settlements and residence
"have not been made in pursuance thereof, and so as often as de"fault shall be made, for the time and in the manner aforesaid,
" which new grants shall be under and subject to all and every
1 the regulations contained in this act: Provided ahays never" theless, That if any such actual settler, or any grantee in any
44such

CASES RULED AND ADTUDGED IN THE

1800. " such original or succeeding warrant shall, by force of arms of
c the enemies of the United States, be prevented fi'om making
" such actual settlement, or be driven therefrom, and shall persist
" in his endeavours to make such actual settlement as aforesaid,
then, in either case, he and his heirs shall be entitled to have
"and to hold the said lands, in the same manner as if the
"actual settlement had been made and continued." 3 vol. 212.
Dall. edit.
As the dispensation contained in the proviso, was to operate
only in the case of an existing warfare, it was stated, in the discussion of the present case, that, in fact, hostilities between the
United States, and the Indians, were never so entirely discontinued, from the period of the revolutionary contest, until general Wayne's treaty in the year 1795, as to render it practicable,
with safety, to make actual settlements upon the lands in question. The position was shown historically, from the military operations of the federal and state governments; judicially, from the
opinions of the Courts of justice; and experiment'tlly from the
evidence of disinterested individua!s. Thus,
After the European peace of 1783, an army was always maintained on the western frontier. During several years, general
.fTarmer was employed in making hostile incursions into the Indian country; and, in the year 1790, he was defeated. The progrcss of general St. Clair terminated, also, in defeat, on the 4th
of Yovember 1791, only five months previously to the date of
the law. General Wayne succeeded to the command, prosecuted the war with vigor, and completely routed the enemy in
the year 1794. This victory produced a treaty, which was signed
on the Sd of August 1795, and was ratified on the 22d of December following. While these events occurred, the north-western frontier of Pennsylvania was constantly exposed to the sanguinary incursions of the Indians; many lives were lost; and, in
the very descrlption of the proviso to the 9th section of the act,
every actual settler, or grantee, was " by force of arms of the
Seinemies of the United States, either prevented from making an
"actual settlement, or driven from it." The state of Pennsylvania, co-operating with the federal government, before the act
passed, in the very session in which it passed, and so late as
-December1795, called out parties of the militia, raised regular
troops, and established military posts: and, at one period, while
negotiations for peace were carrying on, the state suspended hersettlements, and plans of defence, in the country bordering on
lake Erie, at the request of the federal government, lest the enemy might take umbrage and break off the treaty. (15) In fine,
the
(15) For the various military measures pursued by the state government, and
the general opinion of danger, see the following lavs, and the entries in the
journals of the senate: 3 vol. 19. 17th March 1791. 1 JournalSen. 272, 3.24th
August 1791. ibid. 27. 29. 37.47. 54. December 1791, and January 1792. 3 Stdte
Laius,

17,6

SUPREME COURT Or PENIVSYLVANIA.

the result of these circumstances to prevent making, and continu- 1800.
ing actual settlements, during the Indian war, has been repeatedly t-Y-0

recognised in the western county Courts, and in the Courts of
Nisi Prius, held by the Judges of the Supreme Court in Alleghany county, subsequent to the ratification of general Wayne's
treaty. (16)
But the dispensation, contained in the proviso, is, likewise,
qualified with a stipulation, that the actual settler, or grantee, in
any warrant, "shall persist in his endeavours to make such actual
" settlement" as the law describes. The perseverance of the
Holland company, in time, in labour, and in money, was, therefore, exhibited in detail upon the present occasion. It appeared
from various official documents, and depositions, that the company had purchased and paid for 1162 tracts, of 400 acres each,
situated in districts No. 1,2, 3, 6, and 7, and that for these tracts
warrants of survey were issued, dated respectively, in the months
of April 1792, and of April and August 1793. From the day of
issuing the warrants until the present day, the endeavour of the
company and their agents, to occupy, improve, and settle the
lands, has been incessant. Thus, as soon after the dates of the
warrants, as the deputy surveyors could be prevailed upon to attempt to execute the surveys, in the years 1794, and 1795, a
general agent was appointed tc superintend the business of the
company, a large store was built at Cassewago, or Mfeadeville,
and a sum exceeding 5000 dollars was actually disbursed. In the
year 1796, comanies of settlers were invited, encouraged, and
engaged; ample supplies of provisions, implements, utensils, &c.
were sent into the country; the expense of transporting families
was liberally advanced; a bounty of one-hundred acres was given
for improving and sittling each tract; and a further sum of about
22,000 dollars was actually disbursed.
In the year. 1797 a sum of about 60,000 dollars.was further expended in promoting the same objects, including payments on
Lafes, 177. 20th 7anuary1792. 2 Yourn. Sen. 8th December 1792. 3 State Lawr,
335. 3d April 1793. 2 Ydurn. Sen. 288. 29th Agu.st 1793. b. 294.4th September
1793. 16. 5th December 1793. 3 State2 Lavs,'464,
e. 2, 3. 28th February 1794.
16. 483. 8th April 1794. 2 fYourn. Sen, 6 4, 5. 2d September 1794. 3 State Laws,
757. 13th April 1795. rb. 763. t. 13, 14. (16) See .walt': Lessee v. Highland, ante, p. 161. .11'rLaughlin': Lessee v.
Da-r:on, and Morl's' Lessee v. Neighman, post.
. Since this report was prepared, the same question has been agitated in the
Circuit Court of the United States, in the Lessee of Balfour v. .feade, ".tApril
term 1803. The evidence was conclusive, that until the spring of 1796, it was
not safe to prosecute settlements in the country, lying north and west of tile
rivers Ohio and llehaqz, and Conewango creek: and'although the cause was
decided in favour ot the defendant, who claimed as an actual settler, upot
other grounds, Judge Mashington, in his charge to the jury, admitted the fact
to be proved, and declared, that where the fact of prevention could avail the
party, it operated during the whole war and for a reasonable time (according
to the circumstances of the case) after the treat) of peace. The case is reported in a subsequent part of the present voh::me.

contracts,

176

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE,

1800. contracts for settlement, and quieting adverse Piaims. In the
year 1798, mills were erected, roads were opened, and other exertions were made, at a charge of not less than 30,000 dollars.
In the year 1799, the sum of 40,000 dollars and upwards was
expended in improvements and settlements; in the salaries and
wages of agents and workmen; in opening and repairing roads;
and in patenting 876 tracts of land. And in 1800 the operations
and advances of the company will, at least, be equal to those of
any preceding year. In short, at the close of the present year,
near 400,000 dollars will be expended, according to the following view of the subject.

..

The amount of the purchase of the late lames
Wilson, Esq. including the purchase money paid to
the state, at the period of obtaining warrants, was 222,071 10
The amount of disbursements for making im157,000
provements, settlements, &c. was
The amount of taxes and expenditures, for the
year 1-800 will be
18,00
Dollars, 397,071 10
And regarding the operations of the company, in another aspect, we find, that the gross amount of the expenditures, upon
the quantity of land, which remained for them to improve and
settle, will furnish an average at the rate of 230 dollars, for each
and every tract. For instance:
Tracts.

1162,
The original number of warrants called for,
But, from this aggregate there must be deducted,
113
On account of prior occupants of the land
On account of tracts lost upon re-surveys in district
11
No. 1
On account of tracts lost upon re-surveys in district
3
No. 6
On account of bounties to actual settlers, who improved under the company, but at their own charge,
259
one-fourth of 1021 tracts
386

776
Then,, it is seen, that the gross amount of the expenditure to
the present period, of 178,000 dollars being equally apportioned
to 776 tracts, furnishes, as has been stated, an average disbursement of about 230 dollars, for improving each tract; a sum which,
in ordinary times, would certainly have been competent to accomplish every improvement designated in the act of the 3d of
April 1792.

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLV'ANIA.
But leaving these details, for a moment, to contemplate ihe 1800.
general effect of the capital, industry, -and enterprise, which the
Holland company have thus employed and displayed; and, it is
found, that by a conduct the most upright and conciliatory,
they have avoided, or adjusted, every conflicting claim to any
part of their purchase; so that there does not now exist a single
caveat on the files of the land office, against the issuing of any
patent they demand. The benefit of their exertions has extended,
too, far beyond the limits of their own property: nor are they
merely their neighbours, who are accommodated and enriched;
but the opulence, population, and security, of Lhe whole range of
western frontier, have been augmented'beyond all calculation.
Nay, the influence of the example has been diffused throughout
the state, and is felt in every quarter of the union.
Considering the terms of the act of the 3d of April1792, it became a question at the land office, in what-manner the accomplishment of an actual settlement and residence, within the meaning of the enacting part of the 9th section, should be proved; and,
also, upon what evidence, the dispensation of the proviso, was to
be allowed. On the first object, the board of property, on the
16th of December 1797, prepared and published tht form of
a certificate in the terms of the law, to be signed by the deputy
surveyor of the proper district, and by the district judge, or two
justices of the peace, residing in the vicinity of the land: (17)
and on the second object, they took the precaution of consulting
the attorney-general, upon the form which they had drafted; and
that gentleman, as it appears from the minutes of the board, dated
the 21st December 1797, declared "the certificate proposed by
" them, respecting the lands lying north and west of the rivers
(17) The minute of the board of property, is in these words:
At a special ineeting of the Board of Property, 16tl Dec. 1797.
of the
CD ANIEL BRODHEAD, S. G.)
Land Offie.
Present, JOHN HALL, Sdcretary,

(FRANCIS

JOHNSTON, R. G.L

Resolved, That the following be the form of the certificate to be produiced
to tfie secretary of the land office, before any patents shall issue for land lying
north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany and Cone4angocreek, and that

the same be signed by the proper deputy surveyor of the district where the
land lies, and by the district judge, or two justices of the peace.in the vicinity
of the said land, and that the secretary cause the said form, with this resolution, to be published in the Pittsburgh Gazette.
bath made,. or caused to be made,
We do hereby certify, that
an actual settlement on a tract of land, containing

acres, lying north

and west of the rivers Ohdo and 1leghany, and Conewango creek, situate, &c.
(here describe the land) by clearing, fencing, and cultivating, at least .two
acres for every hundred acres, contained in the survey of said tract; dat he
hath erected thereon a messuage for the habitation of man, and resided, or
caused a family to reside thereon, for the space of five years next following
his first settling of the same.
JOHN HALL,
Secretary of tie land office.

(A true copy)

Voi.. IV.

2 A

Ohio

178
1800."

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN Tm
Ohio and Allcglany, and ,cnezvango creek, to be unexceptionable; if there was added a clause, conformable to the proviso
" contained in the ninth section of the act, that where thc settler,
"or grantee, has been prevented making such settlement, or hath
" been driven therefrom, by force of arms of the enemies of the
" United States, and has persisted in his endeavours to make
" such settlement, he is entitled, as if such settlement had acUpon
"tually been made and continued." (18)

(18) The proceedings on this subject are as follow:
December 21st, 1797.
The board, desirous of establishing a legal form of a certificate, to be produced to the secretary of the land oAce, blefore patents shall issue for lands
lying north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany and Conewango creek,
w'rote to 7ared Ingersoll, Esq. attorney-general, for his opinion and directions
on this subject, to which they received the following reply, viz.
11 Gentlemen,

The certificate proposed bryoii, respecting the lands lying north and west
" of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany and Conesango creek, appears to me to be
"unexceptionable in its form, provided you add a clause confbrmable to the
'. proviso contained in the 9th section, that where the settler or grantee has
"been prevented making such settlement, or bath been driven therefrom by
"force of arms of the enemies of the United States, and has persisted in his
endeavours to make such settlement, he is entitled as if such settlement had
"actually been made and continued."
Whereupon, the board made the following resolution, adopting the annexed
form of certificates, viz.
C

.Resol-ed, That the following be the form of the certificate, or certificates,
to be produced to the secr~tary of the land'office, before any patent or patents
shall issue for lands lying north and west of the rivers Ohio and .4lleghany and
Conequaugo creek, and that the same be signed by the proper deputy surveyor
of the district where the land lies and by the district judge, or two justices of
the peace, in the vicinity of the said land; and that the secretary cause the
same form, with this resolution, to be published in the Pittbwygh Gazette:
We do hereby certify, satisfactory proof having been made to us, That
hath made, or caused to be made, an actual settlement on a
acres, lying north and west of the rivers Ohio
tract of land, containing
and Allegheny and Conewango creek, situate, &c. (here describe the land) by
clearing, fencing, and cultivating, at least two acres for every hundred acres
contained in the survey of the said tract: that he hath erected, or caused to
be erected, a messuage for the habitation of man, and resided, or caused a
family to reside thereon, for the space of-five years next following his first settling the same."
Or,
the grantee, or settler, hath
We do hereby certify, That
been prevented fiom making a settlement on a tract of land, containing
conformable to the proviso, contained in the 9th sec.
situate, &c.
tion of the act, entitled "An act for the sale of'vacant lands within this Commonwealth," passed the third day of April, 1792, by force of arms of thc ene, hath permies of the United States; and that he, the said
sisted in his endegvours to make such settlement."
I certify, That the above, and foregoing, is a true copy of a minute of the
Board of Property of Pennsylvania, entered in minute of property book, No. 5.
pages 259 and 260, remaining in the office of the secretary of the land office
of

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Upon such deliberation, and with such uniformity of opinion,
in all the officers of the government, the forms of patents, as ,vell
qfPennsylvania. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal
of the land office aforesaid, at Lancaster, this 14th day of February 1803.
ANDREW ELLICOTT,
(L.S.)
Secretary of the land office.
The form of Patent adopted in case of Prevention, and issued to the Comfiai~r.
THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
To all to whom these presenta shall come, Greeting:
KNOW YE, That in consideration of -the
(L.S.) THO. MIFFLIN. monies paid by Yohn Melbeck, into the receiver
general's office of this commonwvealth, at the
granting of the warrant herein after mentioned, and of the sum of three pounds
eight shillings and nine pence, lawful money, now paid by WilhemL Willink,
Xicolaas Van Staphorst, PieterStadniteki, Christiaan an .Eegken, Hendrick Vollen.
heven, and Rutgert 7,an Schimmelpenninck, into the said o' ice; and also in consideration of the said Withe= Wilink, Nicolaas Van Staphorst, Pieter Stadnitski, Christinan Vran .Eeghen, Hendrick Vollenhoven, and Rulg4ert Yfan Schinimelpenninck, having made it appear to the board of property, that they were, by
fbrce of arms of the enemies of the United States, prevented from -making such
.settlement on the herein after described tract of land, as is required by the 9th
of this commonwealth, passed the
section of an act of the general assembly
"
third day of .4pril 1792, entitled An act for the sale of vacant lands within
this commonwealth," within the time therein mentioned, and that they the said
7VilhemnV i//ink, Nicoluas Van Staphorst, Pieter Stadnitski, Chlristiaan'VanBeghen, Hendrick rollenhoven, and .Rutgert an Schinmelpenninck, have persisted ill
their endeavotrs to make such settlement, there is grapted-by the said commonNicolaas Van Staphorst, Pieter Sta.tnitski,
wealth unto the said Wilhim lWillink,
ChristiaanVan Leghen, Hendrick Vollenhoven, and Rutgert _7a: Schimnmelpenninck,
of the city of i nsterdam, a certain tract of land called Normandy, situate ill
district No. 2, north and vest of the rivers Ohio and lleghany, in lleghny
county, beginning at an ironwood; thence by land of Charles W. Peale, south
three hundred and twenty perches, to ared oak; thence by land ofMichaelCanner, west two hundred and thirteen perches, to an oak; thence by land of
William Cameron and land of Peter Bavnton, north, three hundred and twenty
perches, to a white oak; and thence by land of IsaacPaxton, east, two hundred
and thirteen perches, to the beginning, containing four hundred and one acres
one hundred and fifty perches, and the allowance of sixper cent. for roads, &c.
[which said tract was surveyed in pursuance of a warrant, dated the eighteenth
the
vhosaid
by deed,
1792, gr'anted
to the said
day
Wrilink,
Wli/hemdated
said Melbeck,
tract to the
thefon
1797, conveyed
of fanuary
fifth of
dayAlpril
Nico/aaa Van Staphorst, P~ieter Stadnitski, Christiaan Vran 2Reghen, H-endrick Vol.
lenhoven, and Rutgert fan Sehimmelpenn~nck) with the appurtenances. To have
nd to hold the said ti-act or parcel ofhand, with the appurtenances unto the
said Wi/hem
Wi//ink, Nicolaas Van Staphors, .PieterStadnitski, christiaan Van
.Leglhen, Hendrick Vrollenhoven. and .Rutgert ffan Schi~7e/pennk, their heirs
and ,assigns, to the use of thle said Wri/hem i/ilnk, N¢ico/aas Van Staphorse,
Pieter Stadnitski, Christiaan Van Leghen, Hendrick Vollenhoven, and Rutgere
Yan Schimne7penninck, their heirs and assigns forever, free nd clear of all re.atrictions and reservations as to mines, royaltids, quit-rents, or otherwise, excepting and reserving only the fifth part of all gold and silver ore, f-jr the use
of this commonwealth, to be delivered at the pit's mouth, clear of all charge.
IN WITNESS whereof, THOMAS MIFFLIN, governor of the said commionwealth, hath hereto set his hand, and caused the state seal to be hereunto affixed, the seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand
!icven hundred and ninety-nine, and of the commonvealth the twenty-fourth.
Attcst,
JAMES TRIMBLE, Dep. Se'ry.

179
1800.

180

CAsEs RULrD AND ADJUDGED 1N THE

1800. as the forms of the certificates of settlement, or of prevention,
were fixed and declared. The Population Company (an associL
ation formed on similar principles and with similar views) received on the 4th of February 1799, patents for numtrous tracts
of land, upon exhibiting the proofs of prevention prescribed by
the board of property. The Holland company applied for p.vt'nts
for all their tracts, and have actually received pa.tcnts for 876
tracts; the other"patents. being then withheld, mcrelN for the rurpose of a re-survty, hich the surveyor gene.ral directed to be
nnde, in consequence of the inaccuracy of the deputy surveyor.
But before the re-survey could be executed, a change had taken
place in the land officers; a new construction was given to the
proviso, attached to the 9th section of the a, t; it was insisted,
that no pattnt could issue unlcss the terrms of settlement :nd resi.dence were, at some pcriod, completed, though the obligation
to complete them, during the Indian vwar, vas suspended; and
the resolutions and proceedings of the former board of propert-,
on he subject, were not deemed authoritative wid conclusive upon
the present board. A: the saree time, a nuaiber of persons intruded upon the lands of the warrante(s, -.n the pretence that the
forfeiture for non-settlement, was aLsolute, at the exp;ration of
two years from the date of the warrants, and set up claims as actual settlers. When, therefore, the Holland company renewed
their applications, ibr the rest of their patents, the secretary of
the land office refused to issue them; and the present motion
was made to compel him to do so, as an official duty, by a writ
of mandamus. (19)
Such were the circumstances (collected fiom evidence, of unquestionable n6toriety, from testimony in the cause, or from colcessions of counsel) upon which the controversy arose. The general question was, whether the kioland company had performed
the condition of improvement, settlement, and residence, ann-xed
to the sale of the lands: or were released, by the operation of
the proviso to the 9th section of the act, from the obligation to
perform it? And the arguments in support of the rule, embraed
three distinct objects of inquiry: 1st. The facts relative to the
hostile state of the country, and the persevering endeavours of
the Holland company to accompiish the settlement prescribed by
the act. 2d. The construction of the proviso, attached to the 9th
section. of the act. 3d. The propriety of proceeding, in this case,
by mandamus.
1st. Of the facts relative to the hostile state of the country; and
the persevering endeavours of the Eolland company, to accomplish the settlement prescribed by the act.
(19) Several objections were made, in the course of the srgument. to the
form of the certificates produced Dy the Imul/and company; but these, and

other objections in point of form, eventually yielded to a discussion and de.
er
cision of the general question.

SUPRFnt1

COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

181

Whatever may be the effect of the proviso in suspending, or 1800.
releasing, the obligation to settle and improve the land, the case
in which it operates cannot be mistaken. If a grantee in any
warrant is preventcd, by force of arms of the enemies of the
Un'ted States, from making an actual settlement, it is the express case of the proviso: but, it will not be contended, that the
force of arms, here mentioned, means an actual, application of
military force, the tomahawk,'or the rifle, either to drive a man
from his settlement, or to prevent his entering upon the landi
-with a view to settle it. A well grounded apprehension of personal violence and danger, from a public enemy; a terror ariging
from the force of arms in the.neighbourhood; are equally within
the spirit and protection of the law.
The actual state, of hostility is proved in ever , possible way.
The army of the United States was opposed to the Indians, as to
a public enemy, and, with various success, from the year 1783,
to the year 1795. At the time of passing the act, ofthe 3d of April
1792 ('and, certainly, this fact furnished the inducement, fof inserting the provisoto the 9th section) the whole of the north western frontier of Pennsylvania was in constant danger and alarm.
For some time after the act was passed, the deputy surveyors did
not dare to venture upon the execution of the duties of their office.
And, until the spring of 1796 , not an actual settler inhabited the
country, except, perhaps, a few bold and enterprising men, in the
vicinity of a garrison. But the constitution of the UnitedStates,
has declared "that no state shall, without the consent of con" gress, lay any duty of tonnage, Aeep troops, or 'ships of war, in
,1time of peace, &c. or engage in war, unlessactually invaded, or
" ifi.
such -imminent danger -is will not admit of delay." Art. 1.
s. 10. Now, the state of Pennsylvania did'raise and maintain
troops, for the defence of her western frontier, from the 17th of
illarch 1791, until the spring of the year 1796, alleging " that
cc there was immibent danger of being invaded by the Indian
ttribes, then at war with the Ufnited States; and that it -was ne" cessary to take immediate and vigorous measures to prevent
" hostile incursions, and to provide fbr the security of the fron"'tier inhabitants of this commonwealth." The military operations of the state, must, therefore, be"regarded, on constitutional
ground, as the best evidence, that a war existed; and the effects
of that war, in preventing the settlement and occupancy of lands
lying north and west of the rivers 0/do afid Alleghany,.and Coneivan.o creek, cannot be more forcibly pourtriyed, thain in the
legislative and executive declartions and acts of the government, The judicial authority, indeed, has already settled the
thct, that hostilities existed from the time.of passing the act, until
the ratification of general Wayne's treaty; and, without limiting
the operation of the fact to a mer e suspension of the c6ndition
of settlement, imptovement, and rmsidence, the operation so far,
at

182

CASEs RuLED AND ADJUDGED IN TH.

1800. at least, was expressly recognised, during the continuance of hos~-itilities, in the case of Mtiorris's Lessee v. Xeighman.
But, notwithstanding the hostile state of the country, the Holland company commenced and prosecuted their attempts to settle and improve the land, during the whole period of the war, in
a -manner coually meritorious md beneficial. It is true, perhaps,
that an attempt was not made to settle each particular tract; but
the generai effort to settle the whole, was all that could be reasonably expected, under such circumstances; a combination of
force and capital could alone diminish the danger to be en -ountered; and the result greatly contributed to establish a l,-..r'ier
against the incursions of the Indians. To the exertions during
the years 1794 and 1795, while the war continued, must be added the perseverence of the company, in their endeavours to settle and improve in every subsequent year. During the war, the
disbursements for purchase money, and charges of improvement,
amounted to near 2:j0,000 dollars; and since the war, besides the
allowance to settlers, the disbursements of cash, have exceeded
178,000 dbllars. Nor, ought it to be fbrgotten, that after the
dangers of war had ceased, another evil, almost as embarrassing,
interrupted, annoyed, and, in many instances, frustrated the endeavours of- the company. Rumours, raised and circulated by
artful and interested men, and countenanced by the obscure and
equivocal language of the law, were heard to insinuate, that the
-wan-antees had incurred a forfeiture of their lands, by the lapse
of two years from the dates of the warrants, notwithstanding the
terms of the proviso. Some of those persons, who had engaged
to settle for the company, began to assert a right of settlement
for themselves. Hordes of intruders were pressing eagerly into
the possession 6f the best tracts: and, in short, such was the
doubt and solicitude, universally excited upon this question of
forfeiture, that the warrantees could hardly obtain assistance, in
the business of settlement and improvement, upon the most liberal terms of participation, in the land, or payment of expenses.
Although these occurrences will sufficiently show the impracticability of settling each particular tract, even since-the peace; and
although they increased the difficulties to be surmounted, in the.
general effort to settle the whole; "vet the integrity, enterprise,
and perseverance. of the company, to effectuate the settlemtnts,
were uniformly displayed, and have, on every occasion, been candidly applauded. Upon motives of interest, as well as upon the
principles of their contract, they "persisted in their endeavours:"
for, even after the board of property had decided, that they had
acquired a legal title to the lands, and issued patents in their favour; even at the moment of the present discussion; they have
been, and are, employed (anxiously, laboriously, and expensively,
employed) in completing the settlement and improvement of every
tract, which, they have purchased.

-

SUPREIE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Let it, then, be recollected, that this controversy does not arise 1800.
between contending individuals, claiming under adverse titles; but k
between individuals, who have long paid for the lands, and the
commonwealth, who anhexed to the sale certain conditions, to be
released on a certain event, which event has actually happened.
Of the forfeiture, if a fbrfeiture has accrued, the state alone can
take advantage; and, independent of the strict legal question,
will it be pretended, that, on any principle of equity, the advantage of a forfeiture ought, in such a case, to be taken? The obstacle to a full compliance with the conditions of sale, proceeded
from a public calamity, against which it was the duty of the government to protect its citizens; the existence and operation of
which the individuals could not avert, or controul; and for the
consequences of which they ought not, upon the soundest maxims of civil policy, to be condemned to suffer. But, if it was
the object of the state to replenish her treasury by the sale of
her western lands, that object has.been promoted by the sale to
the Holland company, far beyond what could reasonably have
been hoped. If the object was to strengthen and secure the
frontiers, that object too, has been more effectually obtained by
the general operations of the company, than it could have been
by the weak and unconnected efforts of particular men: and if it
is the spirit and p6licy of our laws, that the country should be
settled, its soil cultivated, and the arts of social life extended,
what country was ever more rapidly, or more by the exertions of
a single association, converted from a desert and a wilderness,
into a scene of population, industry, and prosperity? Every inhabitant, every traveller, every writer, will be found in unison
upon this subject; and even the secretary of the land office, whose
conduct has occasioned the present motion for a mandamnts, has
appe-ared as the eulogist of the Holland company; exhibiting the
merit and the success of their example, as an instrument to procure the public patronage for his own project of settlement, in
other parts of the state.
Whatever, then, is the law, it must prevail:. but it will not be
denied,'that a claim to a liberal and equitable construction of'a.
ambiguous law, never was better founded. Prevented from accomplishing the settlements designated in the act by a public
enemy; opposed in the prosecution of those settlements by intruders, who derived, indeed, some colour for their pretensions,
from an imperfect expression of the legislative meaning; and
thrown off their guard by the deliberate deccisims of the board of
property, and the authoritative proceedings of the public officers.
under the seal of the commonwealth; can it be conscientious, can
it be just, can it be honourabie, that the Hollandcompany, after
a labour of eigh: years, and an expenditure of 400,000 dollars.
should be condemned to a forfeiture of the lands, for which they
have paid the full consideration, in favour of the state, who hasreceived that consideraticn; who, if the-rc hat been error or mistake,

184
'

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. take, the error or mistake, lies in the persons of her officers; and
who, if the doctrine of forfeiture prevails, will not only retain the
consideration money, but resume the soil, in absolute ownership,
with all its ameliorations and improvement! Strange as it would
appear, to exact a forfeiture, under such circumstances, for the
benefit of the state, the occurrence would be still more extraordinary, if it had only the effect, to take the land from a meritorious warrantee, and to give it to a lawless intruder. Till the forfeiture is regularly established, till the government has determined to take advantage of it, and until a second warrant has issued, reciting the default of the first warrantee, any attempt of
at individual to seize and retain the possession of the land, merits, not reward, but punishment. If such conduct shou]d re,':ive
an execative, a judicial, or- a legislative, countenance, a scene of
conflict, litigation, and tumult, must inevitably ensue, fatal to the
rights of property, and. the peace of the community. The spiit
of interested jealousy, will extend its baneful influence, over
what has been sanctioned with the seal of office; intrusions and
forcible entries will'generpte riots and civil feuds; the company
will be despoiled of every benefit from their patents, their labohrs, and their disbursements; and, if right is not to be passively surrendered to violence, the state will ultimatcly find another insurrection to suppress.
To avert the danger of such a scene, as well as to obtain a
safeand certain guide for their conduct, the Holland company
have anxiously sought the opinion of this Court; and, they trust,
that exceptions to form, will not be permitted to defeat the present opportunity, to place the subject on a permanent foundation,
just to the public, beneficial to settlers, and useful to warrantees. Unless, indeed, a judicial construction of the law can now
be obtained, exertions and success will be in an inverse ratio:
exertions will be greater, but gettlements will be fewer in each
succeeding year; until despair takes the place of enterpiise; and
the whole business of settlement and improvement shall be abandoned to occupants, whose only title is force, without patent,
wvithout warrant, and without purchase.
2d. The construction of the proviso, attached to the 9th section of the act of the 3d of April 1792.
The exposition of the proviso, has produced a variety of propositions. Ist. By some, it has been supposed, that unless the
terms of improvement, settlement, and residence, had been strictlyperforined, within the respective periods of two years, and
live years, a forfeiture accrued, though a war had raged throughout, and beyond those periods. 2d. Others, adnitting a qualilied suspension of the condition during a war, have, nevertheless,
held, that no title could be acquired, until the periormance of the
terms of improvement, settlement, and residence, thughi the
war should last for a century; nor even then, unlcss the warrantee

SUPREIIF COURT OF PENXNSYLV*NfA.

18

rantee had, during the whole wdr, persisted in his endeavours to 1800.
perform them. 3d. A third construction maintains, that if a warrantee has been pievented, by force of arms, from accomplishing
the improvemnerit, settlement, and residence, designated in the act,
but has persisted in his endeavours to accomplish them, during
the time mentioned in the 9th section, the proviso operates as an
extinguishment of the condition, and the title becomes absolute.
And, 4th. It has been asserted, that a warrantee, having been
prevented by war, from making the imiprovement, settlement,
and residence, during the time mentioned in the act, will acquire
an absolute title, if he persists in his endeavours for a reasonable
period, after the expiration of the war, though all his endeavours
should prove ineffectual.
ist. The first opinion is -.t once extravagant, and iniquitous.
No rational man, during the existeice of a war, which he ould
not resist, or terminate, would have formed a contract of such a
nature. Nor is it conceivable, if this were the design and meaning of the legislature, that the provio wotild have found any
place in the act, unless, indeed, fraud and deception can be inmputed to its authors; and, it is to be presumed, that an inconsistent, repugnant, and ambiguous, proviso, has been employed, as
the instrument to effectuate them. The enacting part of the 9th
section prescribes a settlement to be finished in two years, and a
residence to be continued for five years; and unless the lproviso,
either dispensed with the settlement and residence altogether, or
enlarged the periods for accomplishing them, it is utterly impossible to ascribe to it a motive, or a use.
2d. The second opinion.is, also, pregnant with inconvenience,
injustice, and absurdity. If it aflords the legitimate construction
o1 the act, it applies equally to the case of the actual settler before wanant, and to the case of the warrantee, with a view to actual settlement. The price of the land could not, therefore, be
collected for the use of the state, nor could a title be acquired
by the individual for a century, if the war should last -o long;
nay, even at the termination of a long prou acted war, the individual would be without remedy, unless he could prove, that,
whatever might be the intermediate expense, or danger, his endeavours to accomplish a settlement, had never been suspended,
or remitted. Consider the state of the country, and such a condition annexed to the purchase of lands, would inevitably frustrate
the primary intention of the legislature.
2d and Sd. But it is not directly denied, that the right of the
Holland company is alive; and it is .insinuated, that the opposite
arguments, do not militate against future grants, if the company
shall go on to complete the settlements and residence described
in the act. It is proper, therefore, to consider the second and
connccted with each other,
of the 9th section,
constructions
third
Vol..
IV.
- I11
an:i

186.
1800.

CASES

RULED AND ADJUDGED I,';THe

and with the facts arising in the present case. The concetsion
the opposite counsel, is, indeed, an acknowledgement of the
inception and progress, but a denial of the maturity, of the company's title: while, it is contended, for the company, that although
the enacting part of the 9th section constitutes a condition precedent, to the vesting of a legal title in the warrantees, that condition is totally superseded, or extinguished, if the case of the
warrantee is embraced by the descriptions of the proviso; so that
he thereupon acquires a legal title, without settlement, improvement, or residence.
By the act, two descriptions of settlers are contemplated: 1st.
Those who have made improvements and settlements without
warrants; and, 2dly. Those who apply for warrants, with a desire to settle and improve. On both descriptions it is imposed
as a condition precedent, that the, shall pay the price of the
land, when warrants are taken out; that they shall pay the expense of surveys; and that they shall improve, settle, and reside,
in the manner, and for the period, prescribed. It is to be re.
marked, however, that a distinction is made, in one respect, be.
tween the settler, and the warrantee; the former b .ing bound to
fulfil the condition precedent personally; and the latter being authorised either to do it himself, or to cause it to be done by others.
This; which, at the first blush, might appear an advantage to the
warrantee, is onverted into a hardship and an injury, the moment the'suspicion of forfeiture insinuates itself among the class
of people, who are to form the actual settlers. There is another
distinction, also, that the actual settler must pay interest from the
date .of the improvement; and he was bound to apply for a warrant within ten years after passing the act; (20) but, on the other
hand, the land and personal property of the warrantee and actual
settler were equally exempt from state taxes, for the same period;
and~it is urged, that the price of the land was trifling, compared
with its .real value. Let it be answered, however, that the exemption from taxes can hardly be regarded as a favour. and the
lowness of the price affords no reasonable ground of argument.
The settler without warrant is charged an interest, and the settler with warrant advances his money. From the fund created
by warrantees, invested in the bank of Pennsylvanfia nd in pub
lic stock, the state has drawn a great portion of that revenue,
which has been adequate, for many years, to all her objects of
public expenditure and improvement. Besides, no state tax was
then imposed, there was none likely to be imposed for ten years;
and the fact is, that even at tliis day a state tax is not in existence, nor in contemplation. The lowness of the price, too, arose
from an avowed consciousness that a great part df the public lands
would not sell higher; and, as to the rest, the price would be ex-

Sof

(2@) The period has been enlarged. See .61o1. p. 25.

orbitant

SUPREME COURT OF PE,..SYLVANIA.

187

orbitant, indeed, on the principles of the opposite construction. 1800.
After all, the wealth of the state consists in its population, and
advancement in the arts of agriculture, commerce, and manufactures, not in the mere accumulation of coin.
These preliminary remarks are suggested, with a view to place
the controversy on its real footing; on the footing of a bargain,
in which the seller and the purchaser equally consulted their respective interests, and are equally bound (though the one is .a
state, zind the other a private person) by the terms of the contract. It is agreed, that there was a condition precedent, which
must be performed, or be dispensed with, upon the terms of the
contract, before any title could vest in the warrantees. It is,
also, agreed, that the condition precedent has not been strictly
performed; for, more that two years have elapsed since the date
of the warrants, but no such settlement, improvement, and residence, have been made and continued, as the enacting part of the
9th section describes. What, then, is the operation of the contract, under such circumstances, connected with the Indian. wai?.
The adverse counsel will not explicitly aver, that the result is an
absolute forfeiture of the lands; but they peremptorily deny, that
it amounts to a release, or extinguishment, of the condition precedent. Where, however, is the expression to be found, that, the
predicated event, dispenses with the condition in part, and ad.
heres to it in part; that dispenses with the limitation of time, for
,performing the act, but, nevertheless, insists upon the act being
performed? Even in the condition precedent, a residence of five
years is not, in every case, necessary: for, it is only required,
(independent of hostilities) if the warrantee, or settle; "shall so
long live." That cause of absolute dispensation, with respect to
residence, must often occur; and it is reasonable to conclude,
that the existence of hostilities was, likewise, considered, and intended as entitling the party'to an equal degree of indulgence.
But, after all, it must be agreed, that the wording of 'the act
is, in some places, incoherent and absurd. Thus, on a grammatical construction, the actual settlement described by the 9th section, comprises a residence of five years; and, yet, the same actual settlement is required to be made within two years fiom the
date of the warrant. Subsequent passages, indeed, treat actual
settlement and residence, as distinct objects; but, another confusion of ideas is introduced: for, we find that the party is called
such actual settler," though he ha been "prevented making
' such actual settlement," and, it is provided, that "if he is preccrbented from making an actual settlement, but persistsin his en" deavours to make it, he and his heirs shall have and hold the
lands, hi th' same manner, as if the actualsettlement haa een
' made and continued." From -the difficulties of tie language ol
the act, therefore, we must endeavour to rescue ourselves, by
ascribing to the lei.islature a meanipg, which, while it coniports

wxt1

188

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. with a rational exposition of the words, shall be consistelit with
,-

public policy and the principles of justice.

The state, having received the money of the warrantees, was
naturally led, from the existing hostilities, to contemplate the injury to which their purchase was exposed. Whether the hostilities would prevent the settlement, or not, it might be difficult to
foresee; but the legislature, in offering the lands for sale, must
have held out the probability, that there would be a safe opportunity to settle; or the condition of settlement could never rationally and fairly have been proposed. If, therefore, the opportunity, implied in this overture, was defeated, it seems to follow
as a legitimate consequence; that the condition ought not to be
enforced. Consider, for a moment, the situation of a warrantee,
bound by the strict condition to settle, or, by the dispensing proviso, to persist in his endeavours to-settle. He must explore,
locate, and survey, each tract, before he can attempt to settle.
He must collect, appropriate, and apply, the funds necessary to
'Jefray the various expenses of settlement, improvement, and
-esidence. He must be in constant preparation to seize and employ the opportunity for settling. Under such obligations the
mere pecuniary charge of watching, for a safe occasion to enter
upon his lands (independent of time, labour, and anxiety) would,
in most instances, be greater, than 'the cost of actual settlement,
in a season of public tranquillity. Exhausted in money, perplexed by doubt and suspense, grown old and infirm in a course of
exertion, or persistence, what pretext could justify an accumulation of such disappointment, injury, and less, by exacting a forfeiture of the lands? The peace warrantee, who has waited till
the storm has passed away; or the intruder, who, at the close of
a war, usurps the name of actual settler, has none of these caLmities to encounter; and, yet, no greater price has been paid,
no other conditions are imposed, in either of those cases, than in
the case of the warrantee, who is defeated in all his exertions,
and drained of ,1l. his resources, by the unavoidable operations
of a public war!
Is-there, then, no principle of justice and humanity, to claim
relief from the legislature, upon the construction, for which the
Holland company contend? Would it be unreasonable to suppose,
that under such circumstances, the legislature intended to vest in
the persevering, but unsuccessful, warrantee, an absolute estate
in the land, upon which he might establish a credit, to furnish
means for renewing his exertions, and ultimately compensating
his advances and his labours• If the supp6sition involves nothing
unjust, or irrational, the frame of words will sufficientlv serve to
give it body and effect. Thus: it is declared, that should the
grantee "be prevented from making such actual settlement," and
persist in his endeavours to make it, he shall hold the lands, a.s
if it were made and continued: but the word prevented, implies
that

SUPREME COURT O PENNSYLVAXA.

189

that he had failed; and persisting in an endeavour, does not ira. 1800.
port succeedin'r in it. Again: the grantee is to have the lands,"
if he persists in his endeavours to mahe such actual settlement:
but this does not involve a condition, that he shall persist until
he has made it, or so as to make it; and " endeavouring-to male,"
is an expression that designates an attempt, not a performance.
Again: If the grantee is prevented, but persists in his endeavours
to. settle, he is entitled "to have and to hold the lands, in the
"same manner, as if the actual settlement had been made and
"continued:"
but no title could vest in the grantee, unless the
condition precedent was performed; and, yet, by force of the
proviso, he is to have the lands (not merely the benefit of a prolongation of the time for settlement) in a case, where from the
hypothetical terms employed, it must be clearly understood, that
the condition had not been performed. Again: The grantee,
being prevented, but persisting in his endeavours to settle, is, by
force of the proviso, to have and to hold the lands, " in the same
"9 manner," as if the condition precedent had been performed:
but if the condition precedent had been performed, the grantee
would have held the lands in fee, discharged from any limitation, contingency, or incumbrance whatsoever; and, consequently, in this case, to enable the grantee to hold in the same manner, persisting in his endeavours to settle, must be considered as
tantamount to actual settlement and residence. In short, in eversentence of the proviso, the legislature plainly points at a certain
state of things, at some concurrence of circumstances, when the
grantee would be absolutely entitled to the land before, and without, making and continuing, an actual settlement.
The only question, then, must be, what is the nature 6f the
endeavours prescribed; during what period the endeavours are
to be made: and how long the grantee is bound to persist? The
actual settlement must be made, or excused, within two years
from the date of the. warrant; and the residence must not only
be five years, but five years next followingthe first settlement. The
time, therefore, is a characteristic of the condition precedert;
an ingredient in the definition, as essential to the contract, as the
nature of the act required to be performed. If the time is as
essential, it is as limited, as the nature of the act to be performed; and hence, does it not follow, that at the expiration of two
years, as to the settlement, and of five years, as to the residence,
the condition must be actually performed, or virtually annulled?
The excuse for non-performance is, also, limited; since, on an'
allegation of being prevented from settling, or residing, thL
grantee must state the force of arms, which prevented him, to be
within, and until the end of two years (as to the settlement) next
immediately after the date of his warrant; and within and until
the end of five years (as to the residence) from the date of his first
.ettlement; or his plea shows no dispensation from the condition.

190

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. tion. Thus, the time, within which performance is to be effected, or an apoogy for non-performance to be received, is the
same, or, at least, commensurate: and if the period, within which
the substitute for performance is exacted, within which the endeavour "to perform must be shown, cannot be extended in favour
of the warrantee, what right, express or implied, can there be,
on the part of the state, to insist on a continuance of the endeayour, beyond the period, within which the contract obliged her
to accept it, as a commutation for the perfonnance? Equality is
equity, whoever may be the parties to the bargain; states, or individuals: but it would be a doctrine of arbitrary prerogative, if
performance, or endeavours to perform, should only avail the
grantee, to release him from the condition, within a limited period; yet, that the obligation to perform, or to persist in the endeavour to perform, should be indefinite and perpetual. Nor is
the idea correct, that the war excused the warrantees from endeavouring to effect a settlement, during its continuance; and
.that the law contemplated a perseverance only when it could be
effectual. On the contrary, the law obviously required a perseverance in the endeavour to settle, during the war; but left the degree
of persverance to be regulated, by considerations of a reasonable
discretion, and personal safety. That this was the construction of
the Hollandcompany, appears incontestibly from the immediate
steps which they pursued to complete.their surveys and improvements: and this is, in truth, the material ground of complaint
against the opposite doctrine; that, by the contract, the grantees
were obliged to make laborious, hazardous, and expensive exertions, during the war; and, yet, at the conclusion of the war, derive no advantage from those exertions, in consummating the legal title to the lands.
On the doctrine, that the grantee, or settler, must persist in
his endeavours to improve and reside, for any other periods, or
beyond the respective periods, of two and five years, let it be
asked, when those other periods are to commence, and how long
are they to be protracted? The law itself is silent; and, yet, if
an intention of that kind had been entertained, how easily, and
how certainly, would the legislaturc have said, that " the
grantee shall have the lands, if the settlement is completed,
" within two years, after the cessation of hostilities, and the resi"dence continued for five years subsequent to the same epoch."
But by whom shall the silence of the kuw be supplied? What
power exists to add the slightest circumstance to the terms of
the contract? The legislature, as a party, cannot explain, or expound, it. The Courts of justice can only declare the meaning,
from the fair and genuine import of the language of the act:
they cannot diminish, or enlarge, the vested rights of individuals,
any more than they can supersede the rights of the state. And,
on this occasion, the officers of the land-office, have only a ministerial function ti perform. Let it, therefore, be repeated, that
tile

'.

SU Rzrr COURT or P.ENSYLVANIA.

191

the proviso to the 9th section, having rested the consummation 1800.
of the grantee's title, simply, upon the persisting in an endeavour, it would be creating a new contract, making a new law, introducing another principle, and amplifying the words of the legis.
lature, to require, not a persevering endeavour, but an actual
performance. Besides; would it be just to fix upon the close of
the war, as the period for commencing the endeavour, without
giving some credit for the exertions of the grantee, or the settler,
fagrante bello ? And, yet, who shall make the apportionment, of
time, of labour, and of expense; and upon what principle can it
be made? It often happens, that what is intended to afford an
undue preference to a favourite, in a remote consequence, provespeculiarly injurious to him. .The merits of the actual settler have
sometimes been" enhanced, in order, by an invidious comparison,
to depreciate the claims of the purchaser, or warrantee: but, it is
obvious, that a deternhinition, upon the ground taken by the opposite counsel, would operate more severely, with greater cruelty,
towards the actual settler, than any consequence that can flow
from the construction urged in favour of the Holland company.
For instance: A man enters upon his lands in the year 1792,
with a view to ipake the improvements, which the act requires.
He is attacked by the Indians, and driven from his cabin and
and his field, before he has time to make any visible progress in
building, clearing, and cultivating; but, he observes, in the words
of the act, that being driven from hii settlement, he shall, nevertheless, have title, as if he had completed his improvement, and
continued, his residence, if he persists in his endeavours: he,
therefore, returns the next year, and is again driven away, re irfecta; and so on, for a succession of years. Shall such a perseverance be accounted as nothing? And, is it not obvious, that to
require thai the actual settler shall be driven away, and constantly
kept away, .and yet shall complete the settlement. and residence,
places him in a condition more grievous, than even the case of
the warrantee, who is merely prevented from entering and improving the land?
Upon the whole, then, let the proviso operate as a release of
the condition precedent, or let it be taken as qualifying the condition, and requiring a reasonable perseverance during, or after,
a war, the claim of the Holland company must be established.
They persisted, in spite of every danger, jyhile hostilities raged;
and more than five years have elapsed, since the Indian treaty,
during which they have, also, persisted.
3d. Of the propriety of procoeding, in this case, by a J1landamnurs.'
In entering upon this part of the discussion, it is proper to inquire, whether the construction given by the board of propert:.to the proviso, is not conclusive. It vas given after great dellberation.

192
t

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THD

1800. beration, and upon the legal advice of the law officer of the state.
Patents have been issued, iti pursuance of the construction; and
transfers have been made and accepted upon the faith of the public
grants, under the great seal. Stare decisis, is a maxim to be held
forever sacred, on questions of property; and, in the present instance, applies with peculiar force, as the rule was given by the
state herself, through the medium of her officers; and with her
alone, not with any individual, can a conflict arise. The board
of property is of a judicial character, and had jurisdiction in the
present case.

2 vol. State Laws, p. 21. s. 2, 3.

3 vol. 2. 456.

4 vol. 476. 3 vol 213. 311. There is no revisionary, or appellate, authority established for questions of this nature: and, certainly, the secretary of the land-office, though a constituent member of the board of property, is merely, as secretary, a ministerial officer, bound by the decisions of the board, though contrary
to his own opinions. His ministerial duties (of which it is one,
that he shall obey the orders of the board of property) are stated
in the several laws, relating to the land-office, and they have received a practical exposition, which devolves on him the care of
preparing patents for the governor's signature, and the seal of
the state. He is bound, then, to execute the public laws, relating
to the land-office; and, if he refuses to do so, the Court will compel him by mandamus, on general principles, as well as on the authority of particular cases.
The general principle of the mandamus, points at cases, in
which there is no other legal, specific, remedy, for a satisfaction
in damages is not regarded, in such cases, as an adequate reparation: and then it may be awarded to any public, or private.
person. 1 Woodes. Lect. 118. 3 Black. Com. 110. 3 Burr. 1267.
1659. 4 Burr. 2188. 2 Burr. 1045. 3 T. Rep. 651. 1 T Rep.
404. Douglas-, 568. The particular instances are numerous. It
lies to compel the ordinary to grant letters of administration:
1 Black. Rep. 640. To compel the delivery of an administration
bond to be put in suit: 4 Bac. Abr. 508. Cowp. 140. To compel the grant of a licence to a curate, if refused without just reason: 4 Bac. Abr. 502. 506. 2 Stra. 797. To compel the proper
officer to affix a seal: 4 Bac. Abr. 509. Or to register a certificate, being merely a ministerial act: Id. 508. 1 Wils. 283. To
compel the party to proceed in proving a will: Raym. 235. 15
Vin. Abr. 203. To oblige any officer to do his duty: 4 Corn. Dig.
207. To compel obedience to things enjoined by statute: 2 Stra.
992. To compel the enrolment of a testament, which by custom
ought to be enrolled: 2 Roll. Abr. 106. 1 Sid. 443. To compel
a clerk of a company to deliver up books: 1 Stra. 879. To compel an old officer to deliver records to a new one: 1 Sid. 31.
The arguments in opposition to the motion for a mandamus,
were arranged under three considerations: ist. What is the real
import

193

SUPREME COURT OF PEMNSYLVANI.3

import of the condition precedent: 2d. What the Holland cotn- 1800.
pany had performed, to vest in them a legal title to the lands:
and, 3d. Whether a-mandamus does lie to the secretary of the
land-office, even if the company are entitled to patents.
1st. What is the real import of the condition precedent.
This general inqui ,, naturally, divides itself into a vieiv of
what must be accomplished, by persons, who meet with no prevention from the enemies of the United States; and of what
must be done, even by persons who are so prevented; in order
to obtain a legal title to the land. The policy and object of the
legislature, are to be ascertained, by the circumstances which induced them to pass the act of the 3d of April 1792. Before it
was passed, tind at the time of pasalng it, there was a subsisting
Indian war; and the treaty of 1794, between the United States
and GreatBritain,had niot removed the causes of irritation, and
apprehension, in relation to that power, which extended along the
northern and western boundaries of the state. Hence, it became
of the greatest importance, to advance the range of settlement;
and to interpose the barrier of a bold and hardy population, in.
the quarter, where danger was so apparent. Treagure was, obviously, only a secondary consideration; and settlement itself
was only stipulated where the danger existed. Thus, the lands
east of the Alleghany were offered for sale, unshackled with conditions of settlement; while those on the west, could never be
vested in any individual, upon any other terms, than those of actual settlement and residence. The steady caution of the legislature on this point, is conspicuous in almost every section of the
act. The sale is only offered to persons, who will cultivate, im.
prove, and .settle the lands. 3 vol. p. 209. s. 2. An actual settler,
without warrant, is so highly regarded, that although the law
would deem him a trespasser, on general principles, the act prohibits any deputy surveyor from surveying anly settled land, but
for the owner of the settlement. s. 5. p. 210. A period of ten
years credit is given to an actual settler for the price of his land.
s. 10. p. 210. The land is exempt from direct taxes for an equal
term. s. 12. p. 213. Anl when the legislature, in the year 1794,
closed the land-office, it was with an express exception in favour
of actual settlers. 3 State Laws, 637..(21) In addition to these
proofs of the policy and design of the legislature, it must be of
great force to recollect, that shortly before the time of oflering
the land for sale at the rate of 71. 10s. per 100 acres, the state
had paid to the United States, at the rate of three-fourths of a
(21) The land bffice appears to have been closed, upon the suggestion of
the governor, that warrants had issued for a greater quantity of land, than the
state owned; and not with a view to favour actual settlers. See the governor's
message of the 2d of Sept. 1794.

VOL. IV.

2C

doliar

194
1800.

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

dollar for every acre, contv.ined in the triangular tract bordering
on l:k, Erie. (92)
Th- ;nwguagt of the act ought, then, to be expounded, in consistec- with the Folicy,-th'at gave it birth; and this can only he
done, by considering the effect of a prevt ntion, by a public enemy, to be a suspension, and not an extinguishm-nt, of the obligation, to settle and reside rpon the land. The legislature must
have presumed, that, notwithstanding the existence of the Indiall
war, there would be an extension of the western settlements; the
accom.ishment of a settlement was made a shze qua non, to the
invesun(nt of a legal title; and the proviso declares nothing more,
in effezt, tban that the war shall be an excuse for non-settlement,
while it continues, and the warrantee sincerely persists in his endeavour to settle. But an endeavour to settle must be shown,
whether war raged, or not; and the endeavour must be to settle
every tract, (each being the subject of a separate grant) not a
general effort to inmp.rove an extensive and indefinite range of
country. It being the spirit of the contract, that the land should
be settled, no argument ought to avail on the score of the warrantee's having paid the stipulated price; and the word settlement, wherever used, is pregnant with all the consequences, of
building, cultivation, and residence, described in the 9th section
of the act. It is now too late to complain of hard terms. Whatever was intended, and undertaken, by virtue of the law, it is
just and lawful to enforce. Say, even that a forfeiture has been
incurred, and insisted on, it can be no reason, at this day, to reproach the government. That point, however, is not urged; for,
every argument, used on the present occasion, to oppose the
mandamus, is perfectly consistent with the idea of future grants,
or patents, being issued to the Holland company, if they persevere, and, in a reasonable time, comply with the requisites of the
condition precedent.
2d. What have the Hollandcompany performed to vest in them
a legal title to the lands.
It must be repeated, that every tract is the subject 6f a distinct
grant; and that the condition precedent attaches to each tract.
Nor does it affect the obligations of the condition, that the lland company are the holders of all the warrants in question; for,
the law is the same, as if each warrant belonged to a separate
individual owner. Have the company, then, shown an actual
settlement, or even an endeavour to settle, upon each of the t-accs?
The cvidence exhibited by the company themselves, establishes
a contrary position. Can it be sufficient to say, that they have
improved a. great deal of the country, and, therefore, are entidted
to hold what they have not improved? The spirit of monopoly,
(22) The payment was made in public certificates; which, it was insisted,

Were greaty aepreciated in value

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

195

was an evil against which the legislature meant to guard, by d,. 180O.
viding the teriitory offered for sale into tracts, and restricting
the right of purchase to a single tract. It is true, that the contrivance of opulent speculators has evaded the legis'ative precaution; and instead of each settler being the owner of the tract
on which he resides, he is the mere instrument of an associadion
of foreigners (who never have visited, and, probably, never w-'ill
visit, America) to obtain, for their emolument, the "lands, whkih
the state had offered for sale, with very different views of policy
and benefit.
Let it be admitted, however, that the Indian war, operated as
an excuse, for not settiing each tract, till the spring of 1795, yet,
the ratification of general Wayne'.. treat)y removed every obstacle,
and was a warning to every warrantee, that the season had arrived, when, by persisting in his endeavours, he might consummate his legal title. If, indeed, no industry, or care, could have
enabled the company to comply with their contract, the condition
would still, perhap-, be suspended: but it is not clear, that a settlement was impracticable at any time, and certainly it has been
practicable for five years past. The comi-any have aiready ob.
tained 876 patents, without a performance of the condition; and
it is remarkable, that until the re-survey in 1799, they could iot
even ascertain, what tracts were embraced by the remaining 153
warrants. As to the lands, therefore, for which patents are now
claimed, nothing more has been done by the conipaty, than to
locate and survey them; and unless the Indian war operated as
a release of the condition, there is no title agquired.
3d. Whether a mandamus does lie to the secretary of the
land office, even if the Holland company are entitled to patents.
The: board of property is a Court of Justice; and should he
governed by the principles of law, in relation to the proof of mat.
ters, within their jurisdiction. The certificate of prevention,
framed by the order of the 21st of December 1797, is destiute
of every characteristic of evidence; and it has even been evaded
in the manner of returning it; for, the order required the signature of the proper deputy surveyor, and two Justices; but, in
many instances, the certificate is signed by the same person twice,
once as deputy surveyor, alid again as a justice. Consider the
order as a rule of practice; rules of practice are forever in the
power of the Court, to alter or rescind; and the succeeding board
of property could not be restrained in this respect, by the acts of
their predecessors. Besides, the order of the 21st December
1797, is radically defective in other points. The board of pro.
perty was bound to inquire for themselves, whether settlements
had been completed, or prevented, within the meaning of the
law; it was a judicial authority, which could not be delegated;
and, yet, by this order, it was actually transferred to the deputy
surveyors

1,66
1800.
t

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TI1E

surveyors and justices; nor was the'sanction of an oath required
for the fidelity of their certificate; which, indeed, is not a statement of facts, but the declaration of a result. The introduction
of such an order was, therefore, an error, and its revocation became a duty.
The secretary of the land office, in his judicial capacity, as a
member of the board of property, decided against the force of
the certificate of prevention, to. entitle warrantees. to patents:
and the effect of the mandamus would be to compel him to do, as
an executive officer, what he has declared, as a judge, ought not
to be done. Nor is the act required witb'n the duties of his office. The patent is an act of the governor; and affixing the state
seal, is an act of the secretary of the commonwealth: but the
secretary of the land-office Can neither issue a patent, nor affix
the seal, nor compel others to do so. It is to be remembered,
likewise, that the board of property is established expressly as a
tribunal, to advise and regulate the proceedings of the land office;
and a mandamus ought not to issue to any of the ministerial officers;- requiring an act to be done, which the board has prohibited. 2 State Laws, 21. 3 State Laws, 3. s. 3. 3 BI. Con. 111.
But there is, both in law, and in practice, a specific, appropriate, and adequate, remedy, which supersedes any pretext for issuing a mandamus. If the secretary of the land office refuses to
perform a duty, an application may be made to the board of property, whose orders he must obey; and if the decision of the
board of property is not satisfactory to the applicant, he may institute an ejectment. By this course, order will be preserved,
justice will be administered, and the interests of the state, as well
as of individuais, will be protected.
After taking time for deliberation, the Judges (23) delivered
their opinioiii seriatim:
SHi'PF.N, Chief Yustice. The legislature, by the act of the 3d
of April 17 92, meant to sell the remaining lands of the state, particularly those lying on the north and west of the rivers Ohio and
Alieghany. The consideration money was to le paid on issuing
the warrants. They had, likewise, another object, namely, that,
if possible, the lands should be settled by improvers. The latter
ferms, however, were not to be exacted from the grantees at all
evcn.,s. The act passed at a time when hostilities existed on the
part of the Indian tribes. It was uncertain when. they would
cease: the legislature, therefore, contemplated, that warrants
might be taken out during the existence of these hostilities,
which might continue so long, as to make it impossible for the

(23) Mr. Yustice BRACXEznTDOE, having been retained, while he was at
the bar, as counsel for the Rtolland company.' declined taking any part in the
decision of this cause.
warrantees

SUPRME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

197

warrantees to make the settlements required, for a length of time; 1800.
not, perhaps, until after these hostilities should entirely cease.
Yet, they make no provision, that the settlements should be made
within a reasonable time after the peace; but expressly within
two years after the dates of the warrants. As, however,. they
wished to sell the lands, and were to receive the consideration
money immediately, it would have been unreasonable, and, probably, have defeated their views in selling, to require settlements
to be made on each tract of four hundred acres, houses to be
built; and lands to be cleared; in case such 'acts should be rendered impossible by the continuance of the Indian war. They,
therdfore, make the proviso, which is the subject of the present
dispute, in the following words: " P r ovidedalways, nevertlieless,
"That if any such actual settler, or any. grantee, in any such origi"nal or succeeding warrant, shall by force of arms of the enemies
"of the UnitedStates, be prevented from making such actual set" tlement, or be driven therefrom; and shall persist in his en"deavours to make such actual settlement, as aforesaid; theu,
"in either case, he and his heirs, shall be entitled to have and
"to hold the said lands, i the same manner, as if the actual set"tlement had been made and continued."
When were such actual settlements to be made? The same
section of the ac't which contains the above proviso, gives a direct and unequivocal answer to this question, "Within the space
"1of two years next after the date of the warrant." If the settlements were not made within that time, owing to the force, or
reasonable dread, of the enemies of the United States, and it was
evident that the parties had u~ed their best endeavours to effect
the settlement; then, by the express words of the law, the residence of the improvers for five years afterwards, was expressly
dispensed with; and their title to the lands was complete, and
'patents might isstxe accordingly. It is contended, that the wordi
"' persist in their endeavours" in the proviso, should be extended
to mean, that if within the two years, they should be prevented
by the Indian hostilities from making the settlement; yet, when
they should be no longer prevented by those hostilities, as by a.
treaty of peace, it was incumbent on them, then to persist to make
such settlement. The legislature might, if they had so pleased,
have exacted those terms; (and they would not, perhaps, have
been unreasonable) but they have not done so: they have expressly confined the time of making such settlements, to the term
of two years frbm the date of the warrant. Their m-aning and
intention can alone be sought for, from the words they have used,
in which there seems to me, in this part of the act, to be no great
ambiguity. If the contrary had been their meaning, they would
not have made use of the word "endeavQurs," which supposes
a possibiiity, at least, if not a probability, as things then stood, of
those endeavours failing on accouht of the hostilitics; and would,
therefore,

198

CASES RULEI. AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. thcretore, have expressly exacted actual settlements to be madc,
%-v--- wh-n the purchasers should no longer run any risk in making
them.
The state having received the consideration money, and require-1 a settlement within two years, if not prevented by enemi-s; and in that case dis1pensing with the condition of settlement and residence, and declaring that the title shall be then
good, and as effectual, as if the settlement had been made and
continued: I cannot conceive they could mean to exact that settlement at any future indefinite time. And, although it is
said, they meant that condition to be indispensable, and that it
must be complied with in a reasonable time; we have not left to
us th-,t latitude of construction, as the legislature have expressly
limited the time themselves.
It is urged, that the main view of the legislature was to get
the country settled and a barrier formed: this was, undoubtediy,
one of their views, and for that purpose, they have given extraordinary encouragement to individual settlers; but they had, likewise, 'evidently, another view, that of encreasing the revenue of
the state, by the sale of the lands. The -very title of the act is
" For the sale of the vacant lands within this commonwealth;"
this latter object they have really etffected, but not by the means
of the voluntary settlers: it could alone be effected by the purses
of rich men, or large companies of men, who would not have
been prevailed upon to lay out such sums of mone.4 as they have
done, if they had thought their purchases were clogged with such
impracticable conditions.
I have hitherto argued upon.the presumption, that the words
" persist in their endeavours," relate to the grantees, as well as
the settlers; but, in considering the words of the proviso, it may
be well doubted, whether they relate to any-other grantee, or
settler, than those who have been driven from their settlements.
The word "persist," applies very properly to such. The words of
the proviso are, "If such actual settler, or any grantee, shall, by
" force of arms of the enemies of the UnitedStates,be prevented
" from making such settlement, or be driven therefrom, and shall
" persist in his endeavours to make such actual settlement; then,
" in either case, lie and his heirs shall be entitled, &c." Here,
besides that the grammatical construction of referring the word
" persist," to the last antecedent, is best answered; the sense
of it is only applicable to settlements begun, and not to the condition of the grantees. There are two members of the sentence,
one relates to the grantees, who it is supposed, may be prevented
fr9m rhtking their settlements: the other to the settlers, who are
supposed to be driven iway from the settlements. The latter
words, as to them, are proper; as to the grantees, who never begari a settlement, improper. The act, says, in eithercase, that is,
if the grantees, are prevented friom making their settlements, or
if

SuPRFX

COURT or PENNSYLVAhfiA.

M

if the settlers are driven away, and persist in their endeavours 1800.
to complete their settlements, in either case they shall be entitled
to the land.
I wiI not say this construction is entirely free from doubt: if
it was, thtre would be an end of the question.
But taking it for granted, as it has been done at the bar, that
the words relate to the grantees, as well as to the settlers; yet,
althou~gh inaccurate, with regard to the. former, it seems to me,
the legislature could only mean to exact from the grantees, their
best endeavours to make the setilemetnts, Nv
ithin the space of two
years from the date of deihc warrants; at the end of which time,
if they have been prevented from complying with the terms of
the law, by the actual force of the enemy, as they had actually
paid for the land, they are then entitled to their patents. If the
legislature really meant differently, all I can say, is, that they have
very unfortunately expressed their meaning.
the propriety of awarding. a mandamus, is another question,
which I mean not to discuss, as I presume a decision of a majority of the Court will make it unnecessary.YEATES, yuetice. I have long hoped and flattered myself, that
the difficultied attendant on the present motion, would have been
brought before the justice and equity of the legislature for solution, and not come before the judicial authority, who are compelled to deliver the law as they find it written for decision. The
question has often occurred to our minds, under the. act of the
3d of April 1792, which has so frequently engaged our attention
in our western circuits.
.The Holland company have paid to the state, the consideration money of one thousand one hundred and sixty-two warrants,
and the surveying fees, on one thousand and forty-eight tracts of
land; besides making very considerable expenditures by their exertions, honourable to themselves, and useful to the community
(as has been correctly stated) in order to effect settlements.
Computing the sums advanced, the lost traFts, by prior improve.
ments and interferences, and the quantity of one hundred acres
granted to each individual for making an actual settlement on
their lands; it is said, that averaging the whole, between two
hundred and thirty and two hundred and forty dollars, have been
expended by the company, on each tract of land they now lay
claim to.
The Indian war, which raged previous, to, atid at the time of
the passing of the law, and until the ratification of the treaty at
fort Grenville, must have thrown insurmountable bars in the way
of those persons, who were desirous of sitting down imimediately
on lanas, at an*v distance from the military posts. These obstacles na.st neccssarily have continui d for sonic time after the removal of impending dangur, from imperious circumstances;
the
scattered.

M00

CASEs RULED AND AD JUDGED IN TAE

1800. scattered state of the inhabitants, and the difficultv of early col%---.' lecting supplies of provisions: besides, it is obvious, that settlements, in most instances, could not be made, until the lands were
designated and appropriated by surveys, and more especially so,
where warrants have express relation to others, dep-nding on a
leading warrant, which particularly locates some known spot of
ground.
On the head of merit, in the Holland land company's sparing
no expense to procure settlements, I believe there are few dissenting voices beyond the mountains: and one would be induced
to conclude, that a variety of united, equitable, circumstances,
would not fail to produce a proper degree of influence on the
public will of the community. But we are compel!,Ld by the duties of our office, to give a judicial opinion, upon the abstract legal question, Whether if a warrant-holder, under the act of the
3d'of April 1792, has begun to make his actual settlement, and
is prevented from completing the saie: ' by force of arms of the
" enemies of the United States, or is ariven therefrom," and shall
make 'new endeavours to complete the same; lut fails in the accomplishment thereof, the condition of actual settlement and residence is dispensed with and extinguished?
I am constrained, after giving the subject every, consideration
in my power, to declare, that I hold the negative of the proposition, for the following reasons, collected from the body of the
act itself:
1st. The motives inducing the legislature to enact the law, are
distinctly marked in the preamble, that "the prices fixed by law
" for other lands," (than those included in the Indian purchase
of 1768) " are found to be so high, as to discourage actual set" tiers from purchasing and improving the same." 3 State

Laws, 209.

2d. " The .lands lying north and west of the rivers -0doand
"Alleghany, and Cone-wango creek, are offered for sale, to per" sons who will cultivate, improve, and settle the same, or ca.Tsr
"the sane to be cultivated, improved, and settled, at and for
"the price of 7. lOs. for every hundred acres thereof." 3y sect.
2. The price of lands is thus lowered, to encourage actual settlements.
3d. By sect. 3. " Upon the application of any, person who
"may have settled and improved, or is desirous to settle and
improve, a plantation within the limits aforesaid; there shall
"be granted to him a warrant not exceeding four hundred
acres," &c.
The application granted, is not to take up lands; but it must
be accompanied, either by a previous settlement and improvemerit, or expr,'ssions of a desire to settle an, improve a plantation; and in this forra all such warrants have issued.
4th. By

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

201

4th. By sect. 5. " Lands actually settled and inpro;.ed, pridr 1800.
"to the date of the entry of a warrant with the deputy surveyor
"of the district, shall pot be surveyed; except for- the owner
"of such settlement and improvement."
This marked preference of actual settlers over warrant-holders, who may have paid their money into the treasury for a par.
ticular tract; even, perhaps, before any improvement of the land
was, meditated, shows, in a striking manner, the intention of the
legislature.
5th. By sect. 8. " The deputy surveyor of the district, shall,
" upon the application of any person, who has made an actual
"settlement and improvement on these lands, survey and mark
"out the lines of the tract of land, not exceeding four hundred.
"for such applicant."
The. settlement and improvement alone, are made equivalent
to a warrant; which may be taken out, by section 10, ten years
after the time of passing this act.
6th. I found my opinion, on what I take to be the true and
legitimate construction of the 9th section; in the close of which
is to be *foundthe proviso, from whence spring all the doubts on
the subject.
It has been said at the bar, that three different constructions
have been put on this section.
ist. That if the warrant-holder has been prevented by Indianz
hostilities, from making his settlement within two years next
after the date of his warrant, and until the 22d of December 1795;
(the time of ratification of general Mayne's treaty) the 'condition
of settlement and residence is extinct and gone.
2d. That though such prevention did not wholly dispense with
the condition, it hindered its running within that period; and
that the grantee's persisting in his endeavours, to make an actual
settlement and residence for five years, or within a reasonable
time thereafter, shall be deemed a full compliance with the condition: And,
3d. That in all events, except the death of the party, the settliment and residence, shall precede ihe vesting of the 6omplete
and absolute estate.
Though suqh great disagreement has obtained, as to the true
meaning of thii 9th section, both sides agree in this, that it is
worded very inaccurately, inartificially, and obscurely. Thus jt
will be found towards the beginning of the clause, that the words
" actual settlement," are used -in an extensive sense, as inclusive
of residence for fiVe years: because its constituent parts are enumerated and described, to be'bvr "clearing, fencing, and culti" vating, at least two acres for every hundred acres, contained
in one survey; erecting thereon, a messuage for the habitation
of Man, and residing, oi causing a family to ifeside thereon,
t fol
2D
VoL. IV.

MO2

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN ThE

1800. ,"for the space of five years, next following his first settling the
4 same, if he or she shall so long live." In the middle of the
clause, the same words are used in a more limited sense, and
are coupled with the expression "and residencel" and in the
close of the section, in the proviso, the same words, as I understand them, in a strict grammatical constr'uction of the whole
clause, must be taken in the same large and comprehensive sense,
as they first conveyed; because the terms "such actual settle"cment," used in the middle of the section, are repeated in the
proviso, and refer to the settlement described in the foregoing
part: and the words "actual settlement, as aforesaid," evidently
rqlate .to the enumeration of the qualities -of such settlement.
Again, the confining of the settlement to be within the space of
two years, next after the date of the warrant, seems a strange
provision. A wa" with the I2dian natives subsisted when the
law passed, and its continuance was uncertain. The state of the
coufitry might prevent the making of surveys for several years;
and until the lands were appropriated by surveys, the precise
places" where they lay, could not be ascertained generally.
Still, I apprehend that the intention of the legislature may be
fairly collected from their own words. But I cannot accede to
the lirst construction, said to have been made of the proviso in
this 9th section; because it rejects as wholly superfluous, and assigns no operation whatever, to the subsequent expressions " if
any grantee shall persist in his endeavours," &c. which is taking an unwarrantable liberty with the law. Nor can I subscribe
to the second construction stated, because it appears to me to
militate against the general spirit and words of the law, and distorts its great prominent features in the passages already cited,
and for other reasons, which I shall subjoin. I adhere to the
third construction, and will now again consider the 9th section.
It enacts, in the first instance, that "no warrant or survey for
"lands, lying north and west of the rivers 0/do and Alleghany,
and Ctoer'wango creek, shall vest any title, unless the grantee
"has, prior to. the date -of such warrant, made, or caused to be
" made; or shall within the space of two years next after the
" date of the same, make, or cause to be made, an actual settle" ment thereon, by clearing, &c. Provided always, nevertheless,
" That if any such actual settler, or any grantee, in any such
original or succeeding warrant, shall by force of arms of the
" enemies of the United States, be prevented from making such
" actual settlement, or be drii en therefrom, and shall persist in
"his endeavours to make such actual settlement as aforesaid;
" then, in either case, he and his heirs, shall be entitled to have
" and to held the said lands, in the same manner, as if the actual settk-mcnt had been made tind continued." - Perbizt" is the correlative of :t tmpt or endeavour, and signifies 1"h ui en." "prsevr." &c. The beginning words of the
section.

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

V20A

section, restrict the settlemept, "to be within two years net 1800.
"after the date of the warrant, by clearing, &c. and by residin" for the space of five years, next followinq- his first settling Of
"the same, if he or she shall so long live;" and in default th ereof,
annexes a penalty of forfeiture in a mode prescribed. But the
proviso relieves against this penaltv, if the grantee is prevented
from making such settlement by force, &c. and shall per-.vit in
his endeavours to make such actual settlement, as aforesaid. The
relief, then, as I read the words, goes merely as to the timics of
two years next after the date of the warrant, and five years next
following the party's first settling of the same; and the proviso
declares, that persisting-, &c. shall be equivalent to a continuation of the settlement.
To be more intelligible, I paraphrase the 9th section thfis:Every warrant-holder shall cause a settlement to be made on his
lands within two years next after the date of Iis warrant, and a
residence thereon for five years next following the first settlement, on pain of forfeiture by a new warrant. Nevertheless, if
lie slall be interruptcdor ohstrutted, by external force, fi'om doing these acts within the limited periods, and shall afterwards
persevere in his eflorts in a reasonable time, after the removal of
such force, until those objects are accomplished, no adv.mtiage
shall be taken of him, for the want of a successive contlnuatio,
of his settlement.'
The construction I have adopted, appears to me to restore perfect symmetry to the whole act, and to preserve its due proportions. It affords an easy answer to the ingenious question, pro.
posed by the counsel of the Holland conipaw. If,' say they,
immediately after a warrant issues, a settler, without delay, gods
on the ground the 1.1 th of April 1792, and stays there until the
next day, when lie is driven off by a savage .nemv, after a gallant defence; and then fixes his residence as near the spot, as lie
can, consistently with his personal safety, does the warrantee
lose all pretensions of cquity? Or, suppose he has the good tbrtune to continue there, firmly adhering to the soil, for two o-"
three years, during the Indian hostilities; but is, at length, conpelled to remove by a superior force: is all to go for nothing,
and must he necessarily begin again? I answer to both queries,
in the negaitive ;-by no means. The proviso supplies the chasm
of successive years of residence; for every da and week he resides on the soil, he is entitled to credit in his account with the
commonwealth: but, upon a return of peace, when the state ok
the country will admit of it, after making all reasonable allowances, lie must resume th'h occupation of the land, and complete
his actual settlement. Although a charity cannot take place .iccording to the letter, yet it ought to be perlorned Ct,-pres and
the substance pursued. 2 Irern. 266. 2 Fonb. 221.

204
1800.
L.-

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGF.D IN TIMV

It has been objected, that such a contract with the state, is ur.
rcasonable, and hard on those land-holders, and ought not to be
insisted upon. It will be said, in rel)ly, they knew the terms before
they engaged in the bargain, and must abide by the consequences:
The only question is, whether the interpretation given of it be
correct or not.

7th. A due confoi n-ity to the provisions of the act, is equally
exacted of those who found their preference to lands on their
personal labour, as of those Who ground it on the payment of
money. I'know of no other distinctions between these two sets
of land-holders, as to actual settlement and residence; than that
the claims of the former, must be limited to a single plantation,
and the labour be exerted by them, or under their direction;
while the latter may purchase as many warrants as they can, and
nake, or cause to be made, the settlements required by law.
Addison, 340, 34:1.
It is admitted, on all sides, that the terms of actual settlement
and residence, art, in the first place, precedent conditions, to the
'esting of absolute estates in these hinds; and I cannot bring myself to believe, that they are dispensed with, by unsuccessful efforts, either in the case of warrant-holders, or actual settlers. In
the latter instance, our uniform decisions have been, that a firm
adherence to the soil, unless controlled by imperious circumstances, was the great criterion, which marked the preference in
such cases; and I have seen no reason to alter my opipion.
8th. Lastly, it is obvious from the preamble, and section 2,
that the settlement of the country, as well as the sale of the
lands, was meditated by this law; the latter, however, appears
to be a secondary object with the legislature. The peopling of
the country, by a hardy race of men, to the most extreme frontier, was certainly the most powerful barrier against a savage
enemy.
Having been thus minute, and I lear tedious, in delivering iny
opinion, it remains for me to say t few words, respecting those
persons who have taken possession of part of these lands, supposing the warrants to be dead, according to the cant word of
the day, anc" who, though not parties to the suit, are asserted to
be implicated in our decision. If the lands are forfeited in the
eye of the law, though they have been fully paid for, the breach
of t'he condition can only be taken .ad. mtlge of by the commonwealth, in a method prescribed by law. Innumerable mischiefs,
and endless confusion, would ensue, from individua's taking upon
themselves to judge when warrants and surveys cease to have
validity, and making entries on such lands at their will and pleasure. I will repeat what we told the jury in Alorris's Lessee v.
Neig/hian and Slwines, ItIf the expressions of the law were not
as particular as we find them, we should have no difficulty in
41pirnouncilng

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

:.Cpronouncing that no person should take advantage of their own 1800.
, wrong, and that it does not lie in the mouths of men, like those k-d-4

"we are speaking of, to say the warrants are dead; we will take
" and withhold the possession, and thereby entitle ourselves to
"reap benefits from an unlawful act." On the whole, I am of
opinion, that the rule should be discharged.
SMITIT, 72ustice. I have had a full opportunity of considering
the opinion delivered by my brother YrATES; and as I perfectly
concur in all its principles, I shall confine myself to a simple declaration of assent. I could not hope, indeed, to add to the argument; and I am certain I could not equal the language, which
he has used on the occasion.

By the COURT: Let the rule be discharged. (24)

Jackson et al. versus Vinchester.
HE following points occurred in this case:
1st. The issues in this case were joined on pleas of non
assumip.it, and payment. When the july were about to be impanneled, the detelndlant's counsel moved to strike out the former
plea, by which (leaving only the affirmative plea of payment) he
would be entitled to the conclusion, in addressing the july. The
plaintiff's counsel objected, with an allegation, that upon the is.
sues, as they now stood, they had been obliged to send a commission into another state, to prove the sale and delivery of the
goods, for which the action was brought.
And the COURT refused to allow"the plea of non assumpsit to

T

be struck off. &

)
2d. The

(24) Since this decision %.as pronounced, the subject hag been revived and
mpitated in various interestin; forms. In the winter of 1401-2, several petitions were presented by the intruders to the legislature, requesting their interposition, but the committee of the senate, to whom these petitions were referred, reported against them, and admitted, that the controversy belonged
excihsivelv to the Courts of justice. But soon after this report was made, a
billwas itroduced, entitled " An aot," &c. which recites the existing controversies, gives a legislative opinion against the claim of the warrantecs, and institutes an extraordinary tribunal, to hear and decide between the parties.
The appearance of this" hill produced two remonstrances from the Holland

companv, but without effect. As soon as it became a laxv, the attorney-general and the counsel fbr the company were invited to a confbrence with the
Judges, on the carr)ing of it into effect; but, upon mature consideration, the
counsel for the company declined taking any part in the business, and assigned their reasons in a letter addressed to the judges, dated the 24th of Yw.
1802. An issue was then formed, by the direction of the judges, which was
tried at Sunbury, on the 25th of Niembcr following, before YE.a'rEs, S..%'Tl,
and BRACKEtNUIDGE, istice,, anti a report of the proceedings and decision
on that occasion wiU be found in a subsequcnt part of the present volume.

(25) While this work is in the press, the same question has just occurred
ill the Circuit Court of the Enijt,'d st.,t,*; and the Judges decided, that whl-erc
tII(-

