3

CAsE s RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THP

1799.
For the defendant in error, Dallas lamented the obvious irre.
L
gularities on the face of the record, though the merits were incontestably established in his favour, by the verdict and judgment.
He thought, however, that the Court would give every reasonable intendment to the allegations of the record, in support of the
judgment and verdict; and, therefore, endeavoured to distinguish
the present case from the case of Bingham v. Cabot et al. 3 Dall.
Rep. 382. In Bingham v. Cabot et a!. the defendant's place of
residence was not even stated; here the defendants are stated
to be merchants of Newbern, in the district of North-Carolina.
There the plaintiffs were described generally of MAfassachusetts,
&c.: here the plaintiff is described specially of an island; and the
cause of action is found to arise on accounts between merchant and
factor. It has not been judicially decided that the averment of
alienage, or of citizenship of different states, as a foundation for
the federal jurisdiction, must be positive; and it is sufficient, in
reason, if circumstantial evidence of the fact can be collected from
the record. As to the blanks in the declaration, in relation to the
sums, Dallas requested an opportunity to consider how far the
defect was cured by the verdict, or might be amended, if the
Court was not decisively against him on the first point.
Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, observed, that the case was
so very desperate, that it had been virtually abandoned by the opposite counsel. He should, therefore, decline troubling the Court.
By the COURT. The decision in the case of Bingham v. Cabot et
al. must govern the present case. Let the judgment be reversed
with costs.

Turner, Administrator of Stanley, Plaintiff in Error, versus
the President, Directors, and Company, of the Bank of

North-America, Defendants.

E

RROR from the Circuit Court of North-Carolina. This was

an action upon a promissory note drawn, in Philadelphia,
by Stanley, the intestate, in favour of Biddle & Co. and indorsed
by Biddle & Co. to the bank of North-America. The declaration
(which contained only a count upon the note itself) stated, that
the president and directors of the bank were citizens of the
state of Pennsylvania; and that Turner the administrator, and
Stanley, the intestate, were citizens of the state of North-Carolina; but of Biddle & Co. the payees, and indorsers of the note,
there was no other designation upon the record, than "that they
used trade and inerchandize in partnership together, at Philadelphia, or North-Carolina." The error assigned, and insisted upon,
to wit, an insufficient description of Biddle & Co. was founded

on

SUPREME COURT 01 THE UNITED STATES.
on that part of the 11th section of the judicial act (1 vol. 55.) 1799.
Which declares, that no District or Circuit Court " shall have t
"1cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promis.
"sory note, or other chose in action, in favour of an assignee,
"unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such Court, to
"c recover the said contents, if no assignment had been made,
" except in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, argued, that unless it was
averred upon the record, that the original parties to the note, as
well as the parties to the suit, were of different states, or one a
citizen, and the other an alien, it could not judicially appear,
that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the"cause. Though
the federal Courts are not to be regarded as inferior Courts,
they are Courts of a limited jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of
the state Courts is general; but the jurisdiction of the federal
Courts is special, and in the nature of an exception from the
general jurisdiction of the state Courts. That the parties are
citizens of different states, is one ground for the exception;
and so far as respects the immediate parties to the suit, the
ground for the exception sufficiently appears upon the record.
But if an action is brought by the indorsee of a promissory note,
he cannot have the benefit of the exception, unless he shows
that his indorser, as well as himself, was entitled to resort to a
federal tribunal. Congress knew, that the Engli.qh Courts had
amplified their jurisdiction, through the medium of legal fictions;
and it was readily foreseen, that by the means of a colourable
assignment to an alien, or to the citizen of another state, every
controversy arising upon negotiable paper, might be drawn into
the federal Courts. Hence, the original character of the debt is
declared to be the exclusive test of jurisdiction, in an action to
recover it. Unless the original character of the note furnished a
subject of federal jurisdiction, it is emphatically declared, that
"no District or Circuit Court shall have cognizance of the suit;"
and a court of special jurisdiction cantiot take cognizance of the
suit, unless the case judicially appears by the record to be within
its jurisdiction. 9 .Moll. 95. Lord Coningseb's case. So, wherever
a party takes advantage of a clause in a statute, to which a proviso is attached, he must not only bring his case within the general clause, but show that it is not affected by the proviso. 5 Bar.
.4br. 666. Piowdi. 410. Raym. Nor is the present, too late a period, to take advantage of the defect. Silence, inadvertence, or
consent, cannot give Jurisdiction, where the law denies it. In
Binghan v. Cabot. 3 ball. 382. the ground of jurisdiction was
more strongly laid; and yet a similar defect was successfully assigned for error.
Rawle, for the defendant in error. It is not intended to contrcvert the general proposition, that where a suit is brought before
an inferior Court, the circumstances that gave it jurisdiction,
must
C
VOL. IV.

10

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED 1N THE

1799. must be set forth on the record; and, if they are omitted, it
may be taken advantage of upon a writ of error. But the Circuit
L
Court is not, in technical language or intendment, an inferior
Court; and this consideration alone destroys the'application of
most of the English authorities. It is, then, to be remarked that
the judicial pow-er, is the grant of the constitution; and congress can no more limit, than enlarge, the -constitutional grant.
In the 2d section of the 3d article, the constitution contemplates
the parties to the controversy, as alone raising the question of
jurisdiction; and if the existing controversy is "between citizens
of different states," the judicial power of the United States expressly extends to it. (1) By the opposite construction, however,
congress has imposed a limitation upon the judicial power, not
warranted by the constitution, when, without regard to the immediate parties to the controversy, the law excepts from the cognizance of the federal Courts, suits upon promissory notes, which
by assignment, have placed the immediate parties, in the relation of citizens of different states. If the Circuit Court is not an
inferior, neither is it, in the sense asserted, a limite Ijurisdiction,
but it is a Court of general jurisdiction, having some cases expressly excepted from itp cognizance. It may be compared to
the King's Bench in England, from whose general jurisdiction
is excepted the cognizance of cases, belonging to the counties
palatine.

Carth. 11, 12. 354. 1 Saund. 73. 2 .Mod. 71, 2, 3.

As to such Courts, it is sufficient if it appears to the appellate
authority, that from the subject matter, the Court below might
have jurisdiction; and, at all events, it would be too late, in a
writ of error, to take the cxception-an objectiQn not suggested
in Binghzam v. Cabot. Then, here the parties are stated to be
citizens of different states; the place was not exempt from
federal jurisdiction; and the nature of the controversy did not,
ot itself, deprive the Circuit Court of its general cognizance of
suits, between citizens of different states.
The Chiif Yustice delivered the opinion of the CouRT, in the
following terms:
ELLSWORTH, Chief Yustice. The action below was brought by
the president and directors of the bank of North-America, who
(1) ELLSWOmRT', Chiefyustice. How far is it meant to carry this argument!
'Vill it be affirmed, th at in every case, to which the judicial power of the Vinited States extends, the federal Courts may exercise a jurisdiction, withouf
the intervention of the legislature, to distribute, and regulate, the power?
CH Es, _7ustice. The notion has frequently been entertained, that the federal
Courts derive their judicial power immediately from the constitution; but the
political truth is; that the disposal ofthe judicial power, (except in a few specified instances) belongs to congress. If congress has gien the power to this
Court, we posess it, not otherwise: and if congress has not given the power
to us, or to any other Court, it still remains at the legislative disposal. Besides,
cengress is not boufnd, and it would, perhaps, be inexpedient, to enlarge the.
jurisdiction ,;f tl.€- federal Courts, to every subject, in ever. form, which the
coatituti,-i might . arrant.

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

1]

are well described to be citizens of Pennsylvania, against Turner 1799.
and others, who are well described to be citizens of North-Caro.
-. a
lina, upon a promissory note, made by the defendant, payable to
Biddle & Co., and which, by assignment, became the property of
the plaintiffs. Biddle & Co. are no otherwise described, than as
" using trade and merchandize in partnership together," at Philadelphia or North-Carolina. And judgment 'was for the plaintiff.
The error assigned, the only one insisted on, is, that it does
not appear from the record, that Biddle & Co. the promisees, or
any of them, are citizens of a state other than that of NorthCarolina,or aliens.
A Circuit Court, though an iniferior Court, in the language of
the constitution, is not so in the language of the common law;
nor are its proceedings subject to the scrutiny of those narrow
rules, which the caution, or jealousy, of the Courts at MeVestininster, long applied to Courts of that' denomination; but are entitled to as liberal ifhtendments, or presumptions, in favour of their
regularity, as those of any Supreme Court. A Circuit Court,
however, is of limited jurisdiction; arid has cognizance, not of
cases generally, but only of a few specially circumstancqd,
amounting to a small proportion of the cases, which an unlimited
jurisdiction would embrace. And the fair presumption is (not
as with regard to a Court of general jurisdiction, that a case is
within its jursdction unless the contrary appears, but rather)
contrary appears.
cause is' without its jurisdiction till the
that
This arenders
it necessary, in as much as the proceedings of
no
Court can be deemed valid further than its jurisdiction appeai-s,
or can be presumed, to set forth upon the record of a Circuit
Court, the facts or circumstances, which give jurisdiction, either
expressly, or in such manner as to render them'certain by legal intendment. Among those circumstances, it is necessary,
-vhere the defendant appears to be a citizen of one state, to show
that the plaintiff is a citizen of some other state, or an alien; or
if (as in the present case) the suit be upon a promissory note, by
an assignee, to show, that the original promissee is so: for, by a
special provision of the statute, it is his description, as well as
that of the assignee, which effectuates jurisdiction.
But here the description given of the promissee only is, that
"* he used trade" at Philadelphia or North-Carolina; which,
taking either place for that where he used trade, contains no
averment that he was a citizen of a state, other than that of
North-Carolina,or an alien; nor an) thing which, by legal in'tendment, can amount to such averament. We must, therefore,
say that there is error.
It is exceedingly. to be regretted, that exceptions which might
be taken-iim abatement and bften cured in a moment, should be
reserved to the last stage of a suit, to destroy its fruits.
Judgment reversed.

