SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

:.Cpronouncing that no person should take advantage of their own 1800.
, wrong, and that it does not lie in the mouths of men, like those k-d-4

"we are speaking of, to say the warrants are dead; we will take
" and withhold the possession, and thereby entitle ourselves to
"reap benefits from an unlawful act." On the whole, I am of
opinion, that the rule should be discharged.
SMITIT, 72ustice. I have had a full opportunity of considering
the opinion delivered by my brother YrATES; and as I perfectly
concur in all its principles, I shall confine myself to a simple declaration of assent. I could not hope, indeed, to add to the argument; and I am certain I could not equal the language, which
he has used on the occasion.

By the COURT: Let the rule be discharged. (24)

Jackson et al. versus Vinchester.
HE following points occurred in this case:
1st. The issues in this case were joined on pleas of non
assumip.it, and payment. When the july were about to be impanneled, the detelndlant's counsel moved to strike out the former
plea, by which (leaving only the affirmative plea of payment) he
would be entitled to the conclusion, in addressing the july. The
plaintiff's counsel objected, with an allegation, that upon the is.
sues, as they now stood, they had been obliged to send a commission into another state, to prove the sale and delivery of the
goods, for which the action was brought.
And the COURT refused to allow"the plea of non assumpsit to

T

be struck off. &

)
2d. The

(24) Since this decision %.as pronounced, the subject hag been revived and
mpitated in various interestin; forms. In the winter of 1401-2, several petitions were presented by the intruders to the legislature, requesting their interposition, but the committee of the senate, to whom these petitions were referred, reported against them, and admitted, that the controversy belonged
excihsivelv to the Courts of justice. But soon after this report was made, a
billwas itroduced, entitled " An aot," &c. which recites the existing controversies, gives a legislative opinion against the claim of the warrantecs, and institutes an extraordinary tribunal, to hear and decide between the parties.
The appearance of this" hill produced two remonstrances from the Holland

companv, but without effect. As soon as it became a laxv, the attorney-general and the counsel fbr the company were invited to a confbrence with the
Judges, on the carr)ing of it into effect; but, upon mature consideration, the
counsel for the company declined taking any part in the business, and assigned their reasons in a letter addressed to the judges, dated the 24th of Yw.
1802. An issue was then formed, by the direction of the judges, which was
tried at Sunbury, on the 25th of Niembcr following, before YE.a'rEs, S..%'Tl,
and BRACKEtNUIDGE, istice,, anti a report of the proceedings and decision
on that occasion wiU be found in a subsequcnt part of the present volume.

(25) While this work is in the press, the same question has just occurred
ill the Circuit Court of the Enijt,'d st.,t,*; and the Judges decided, that whl-erc
tII(-

206

CASES RULED AND ADJUDiED IN THE

2d. The defendant alledged, that the plaintiffs had agreed to

1800.

L-.-a take payment of the debt, for which the action was brought, in

Tennessee militia certificates, if David Allison approved of it.
Allison approved, in writing, of the proposed payment, and the
certificates were delivered to him; but it became a question, how
far that delivery was satisfaction to the plaintiffs? And Allison
being dead, J. Levy, offered himself as a witness to prove, that
on a question of bail, before M'KEAN, 6 7. Allison deposed,
that the plaintiffs had debited him with the amount 'of the certificates, in their account current. The plaintiffs' counsel objected
to the evidence.
And, by the COURT: Nothing that passed before the judge,
on the question of bail, can be evidence on the trial, unless it was
clearly admitted, as a fact, by the party.
T . Tilghnan and Hallowell, for the plaintiffs.
,11. Levy and Dallas, for the defendant.

Bussy versus Donaldson.

T

HIS was an action on the case, against the owner of the ship
Edwvard, for running foul of, and sinking, the brig Katy, at
the piers in the river Ddaware, by negligence, and improvident
and unskilful management, &c. The defence was made on three
grounds: 1st. That the injury was occasioned by an unavoidable
accident, for which no reparation ought to be exacted. 2d. That
as the ship Edward was in the charge of a public pilot of the
port, (a person not the choice, nor the voluntary agent, of the
owner) when the injury was committed, the owner was not legally responsible. And, on this point, the following authorities
were cited: 3 Bac. Abr. 591, 2. 7 Geo. 2. c. 15. 3 State Laws, 422.
.v. 8. 10. 15. Wesc. 395. Beawes, 122. 1 Emirig. 402, 3. 1B. Con,.
4"31, 2. 1 Dora. 241. Tit. 16. s. 3. Salk. 442. 4410. 3 Bac.Abr.560.
3d. That the amount of the injury actually sustained, is not the
measure of damages, in the present action. 1 Dall. Rep. 18o.
Purviance et al. v. Angus.
After argument by TV. Tilhnzan, -41"'Levy, and Razule, for
the plaintiff, afd by Ingersoll, E. Tilg'hman, and Lewis, for the
the pleas were non a.-s'utssit, and payment, the defendant might, of course,
strike out the plea of non asvinpsit, without applying to the Court, at any
time .before the jury were actually sworn. They said, it operated to relieve
tle plaintiff, from the necessity of-proving tile assumption, and was, therefore,
for his advantage. But they listinguished it from the case of adding a plea,
as essentially diffrrent; that case requiring the authority ofthe Court. ruyton V.
Brieulle, October term 1806. Dallas,for the plaintiff. Ingermol and.Du.1onceau,
for the defendant.

defendant.

