342

CASES RULED AND ADJUDdED IN TH,

1800.

Murgatroyd versus M'Lure.
R E P E VIA, for the ship Mlount Vernon. The defendant
claimed property, under a capture and condemnation as
-prize, in the French Court of Prizes, established at the city of
St. Domingo, in the island of St. Domingo, under the circumstances stated in the reports of the trials, relative to the same
ship. 3 Dall. Rep. 491. Murgatroyd v. Crawford. Ante, 308.
Duricanson v. Zf'Lure. After hearing the evidence,
CHASE, 7ustice, declared, that'the whole trasaction, between
B/hurgatroyd and Duncanson, was a mere cover, to evade the
laws of the United States; that the former was a mere trustee for
the latter; and that having been paid the full price for the ship,
he had no property, on which the replevin could be maintained.
The plaintiff suffered a non-suit.

Evans, qui tam, &c. versus Bollen.

T

HIS Was a qui tam action, in which the following declarawas filed:
" October Session 1797.
"Jn the Circuit Court of the United States for the Pennsylvania
" District of the Middle Circuit.
" District of Pennsylvania, ss.
" George Bollen, late of the district of Pennqylvania,yeoman,
"was 'summoned to answer to the United States and to 7ohnA
" Evans, who sues in this behalf, as well for the said United
" States as for himself, of a plea that he render to -the said
" UnitedStates, and to the said Yohn who sues as aforesaid, the
" sum of two thousand dollars, which to them he owes, and from
" them unjustly detains: and whereupon the said 7ohn, who sues
" in this behalf, as well for the said UnitedStates, as for himself,
" by 7oseph Thomas his attorney, saith that the said George, on
"s the first day of-4pril in the year of our Lord one thousand
" seven hundred and ninety-seven, at the port of New-Torl, to
" wit, at the district aforesaid, was aiding and abetting, in pre"paring and sending away from a port within the said United
"States, to wit, from the port of New-ork, a certain vessel
"called the Betsey, intending that the same should be employed
"for the purpose of procuring from a foreign country, to wit,
" from the coast of Africa, the inhabitants of such foreign coun"try, to be transported to a foreign country, to wit, to the island
"of Saint Croix, to be disposed of as slaves, against the form of
"the statute in such case made and provided; by means where"cof,

