SUPREME COUKT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

141

Tenderness and mercy are amiable qualities of the mind; but 1795.

if lhe,. are exercised andindulged beyond the controul of -easonr,

and the. limits of justice, for the sake of individuals, the peace,
or.er, and happiness of society, will inevitably be impaired and
end(angered. As jar as respects the prisoner, I lament the tendency of these observations; but as far as respects the public, I
have felt it a sacred duty to submit them to your consideration.
Verdict, guilty (1).
Holloback versus Van Buskink,
tor, &e.

surviving Administra

Racroth et Ux. versus The Same.

T

HESE were actions bn the case, in which the plaintiffs declared on a general indebitatus assumpsit, for money had
and received by the defendant (who was the surviving administrator, cum testamento annexo, of Catharine H-olloback) to their
use, respectively. They claimed distributive shares in the residuum of the estate of CatharineHollobach, under her will: but
it was questioned, whether such actions would lie, without proving an assumption, on the part of the defendant?
The COURT, however, declared their opinion, that the actions
might be maintained, without proof of an express assurpsit;
and .verdicts were, accordingly, given for the plaintiff§, with
leave to move for new trials.*
Anonymous.

T

HIS was an action on the case for obstructing a water
course, by which the plaintiff's meadow was watered. On
the trial, it appeared, that the defendant had purchased a mill,
with notice that the vendor had before sold the meadow in
question to the plaintiff, covenanting that th plaintiff might use
the water, over and .above what was necessary for the mill. The
defendant obstructed the water course; and it seemed to have
been his object, by so doing,'to compel the plaintiff to sell the
meadow to him.
On these facts, the CoURT recommended (with thei concurrence of the counsel on both sides) that the defendant should do
(1)

This indictment was tried at Easton, on the 21st of yznze 1795, before

.,
M'KaA.
*

Chieffustice, and S-IT31,

Decided before YEATES

Priubin October 1795.

ittce.

and SN'UTri

.tstices,

at Xrorthainpton, Nisi

