SUPREME COURT
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

March Term 1799.
M'Clay versus Hanna et a.

T

HIS was an appeal from the Orphan's Court of Daupht
county, under the following circumstances: Yohn Harris,
by his will dated the 25th of May 1790, proved 2d of Azugst
1791, bequeathed all his personal estate to his sons David, Robert, and Yames-, and his daughters Alary AI'Clay and Juary
Hanna, to be equally divided between them. He, also, ordered
his executors to sell all his lands not otherwise disposed of by
his will, and divide the proceeds as aforesaid: He directed his
executors to settle their accounts, in the Orphan's Court, in one
year after his decease, and continue to settle an account annually
until the estate was finally settled.
In _anuary 1795, a citation was issued.at the request of WilNam Mi'Clay, one of the executors of Yohn Harris, against David Harris,Robert Harris, Yohn Andrew Hanna, 7o.-ep/ Mori,
and Yohn 1IJ'Clay, the other executors, to appear at 'the next
Orphan's Court for Dauphin county, to make a full disclosure of
all effects and estate of the deceased, which have come to their
hands, possession, or knowledge, and settle and abide the order
and judgment of the Court on the premis-s. The cause came to
a hearing in the Orphan's Court, in Septemltber 1795; when a
motion was made by Af'Clay's counsel that Robert Harris and
,ohn A. fanna should answer,, on oath, to a charge of having
received money for the sale of sundry lots, which had been conveyed to them by the testator, by absolute deed, on a secret trust,
to be accountable for the proceeds of the sales: and that they
should bring the said proceeds into their administration account,
and charge themselves therewith. The Court deternined, 1st.
That the said Harris and Hanna, should not be obliged to answer on their oath to the saxid charge: and, 2d. That the plaintiff
should

CASES RULED AND ADJUDOED, & c.

161

should not be allowed to produce evidence, to substantiate the 199.
truth of his charge against the said 7ohn A. Hanna; but that

the account of the said Harris and Hanna, as then exhibited
to the Court, should be received and passed. The plaintiff appealed from this judgment; and the cause comes upon the appeQ'

After argument by W. Tilghman and Dallas, for the appellant; and by Ingersoll, for the appellees, the COURT dismissed
the appeal, because it did not appear, that the Orphan's Court
had pronounced a definitive decree.

Ewalt's Lessee versus Highlands. (1)
E

JECTMENT for 400 acres of land at Gerty's Run, across

the Alleghany, the plaintiff claiming under settlement and
survey. From the evidence it appeared, that, on the 30th of
April 1792, the lessor of the plaintiff passed the Alleghany, with
two hands, to make an improvement; that they deadened about
one acre of wood, returned, and, about two weeks afterwards,
went over again, and deadened a little more wood; that a cabin
was erected, with a clap-board roof, eight feet square; and logs
cut out for a door; that a few peach stones, apple seeds, and potatoes were planted; but no other improvements were made; and
neither the lessor of the plaintiff, nor any tenant for him, resided
on the land. On the 9th of April 1794, a survey was made by
7onathan,Leet, the deputy surveyor of the district, under this settlement. On the 10th of February1796, Ewalt leased the land
to P. Smith, who went over the Alleghany, kindled a fire in the
cabin, staid there an hour, and'then removed; but Ewalt, and
his family, constantly resided on the east side of the river; while,
on the other hand, the defendant and his family lived for three
years on the premises.
1st. When Leet's survey was offered in evidence, the defendant's counsel objected; but it was admitted by the COURT, upon

the ground, "that in cases of title, under settlement and improvement of lands, north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany
and Conewango creek, the deputy surveyor must, in the first instance, judge of the right; though subject to the opinion of the
Court and jury."
2d. In delivering the charge, the following sentiments were
expressed,
By the COURT: It is now the province, and the duty, of the
Court and jury, to decide, whether the survey in question, was
properly made, under the act of the 3d of April 1792. (3 State
Laws, Dall. edit.) The act itself has laid down no general rule,
(1)Tried at -Pittburgh,.1fav 1799, before YEATES and SMITH, 7ustkce:.

VOL. IV.

Y

ascertaining

