SUPRXME COURT 07 PENNSYLVANIA.

1803.

Mitchell, Plaintiff in Error, versus Smith.

ERROR
from the Court of Common Pleas of Luzerne cou.ty; where an action of debt had been brought by Smith, for
the use of Cash, against Mitchell, upon a single bill, or sealed
note, dated the I1th of lklrarch 1796, for 483 dollars and 33 cents.
payable in three years with interest. The defendant pleaded payment, with leave to give the special matter in:evidence: and
thereupon issue was joined. On the evidence, it appeared, that
the note was given for 1500 acres of land, lying in the township
of Smithfield, in the county of Luzerne, out of the seventeen townships, which Smith conveyed to jitchell,at the time of-the sale;
that the land had been granted to Smith by the committee of the
Susquehanna company; that M71itchell had been in the actual and
peaceable possession of the land from the time of the sale; and
that he had a full knowledge of the law of A1pril 1795, against in-

trusions uhder the Connecticut title, as well as of the general dispdte, relative to lands in Luzerne county. On the trial in April
term 1802, the defendant below insisted upon thfee .points:
1st. That the. consideration of the contract was illegal; and,
therefore, the bill, or note, was void. 2d. That the transaction
was against the policy of the law. 3d.'That the consideration
had failed. Rtgrii, President, in his charge to the jury, delivered
an opinion against the defendant, on all the points; and concluded with stating, that " if the jury are of opinion that the de"fendait knew, and was acquainfed with, every material cir"cumstance, relative to the bargain, it is their duty to make him
"pay the money, with the interest thereon. But if they are of
" opinion, that he was, in any degree imposed upon,' or pur" chased ignorantly; in that case, they ought to find a verdictin
" hisiavour." (1) To this charge, a bill of exceptions was ten.
dered
(1) The following was published, as a copy of Judge Rusa's clarge.
Risit, President. With respect to the first point, that is, the illegality of
the bond, this depends upon a sound construction of the Intrusion La., and
has already been decided by this Court.* - The act is penal and madLt the
offences~described in it indictable. The offiences being wholly new and created
by the act, the parties can be punished in no other way. The law sa. s aut a
word with respect to the contract; but points its penalties onl. against
the PFeson: of the offenders. Laws similar to this have been enacted in
England, against forestalling, regrating, and selling prhendcd titles; all
which iiflict penalties'on the persons of those who shall transgress them; but
it has never been supposed, that they affected, or impeached, the validity of'
tile contract between the parties, in the smallest degree. For these reasons, it
is the opinion of thi court, that the Intrusion law has not destroyed or vitiated
the contract between Dabid Smith and Reuben Mitchell.
The 2d feason assigned by- the counsel for the defendant to set aside the
contract, is, that it is against general or public policy.

* 14qry's Executcrs V. Yeirin..

When

270

CASES RULED AN35 ADJUDGED IN THE

1803. dered and allowed; and thereupon the present writ of error was
instituted.
The argument, for the plaintff in error, turned upon this
single proposition: " That as the transaction, on which the debt
" arose, was prohibited by the law of Pennsylvania, the bill, or
"note (being made the evidence of the debt) contravened the
"policy of the law, and was, in its nature, a nullity: so that no
"Court of Pennsylvaniawould sustain an action upon it; though
"the statute did not expressly declare it to be void." 3 State
Laws, 703. Dall. edit. Cowp. 39. 729. 7m4. 3 Burr. 1568. 1 T.
Rep. 55. 1 Vez. 276. 3 Burr. 2234. ev. 197; 2 Lev. 174. 1 P.
Wins. 185. 5 T. Rep. 120. Doug. 671. 3 T. Rep.456. 4 T.Rep.
When the legislature pass a law upon a particular subject, it is the duty of
the Court to see it carried into execution in the manner described in the law,
and in no other. Thus, when the .English-parliament enacted, that whoever
shall buy any ;oods, wares, &c. on the way to market, &c. shall be liable to
fine and imprisonment, the Judges did not think proper to go 'a step beyond
the law; though there cannot be the least doubt, that the crime of forestalling,
was repugnant to sound public policy, ahd against the policy of the law itself.
The contract wasadmitted to be valid and binding between the parties, though
they were punishable for their conduct.
It is readily acknowledged, that every such contract and sale of land, with delivery of possession, is contrary to the interests ofthe conmonwealth of PenntylVania; and so is every forestalling contract, or sale of a pretended title, repugnant
td the interesti of that country, where thelaws forbid such contracts, and inflict
penalties on those who enter into them. The law itself supposes the contract
to be injurious to the interests of the country, and against the policy of the law
which forbids the act to be done. But, unless the law expressly destroys the
contract, I do not conceive a Court of justice is authorised to do it, on the
ground of its being against the good of the public. It would be an assumption
of legislative power.
The 3d and last reason, for setting aside this contract is, that the consideration has failed. When we speak of the consideration of a contract failing, it
is understood, that the bargain turns out different from what was expected.
The rule is, where the party is deceived, or imposed upon, he is not obliged to
pay his money. For example, if .. sell a Susqeueannatitle to B. who is ignorant
of the total defect of such title; there is no doubt B. may avoid the sale, bn
the ground of want of consideration, and imposition. But that is not the case
now before the Court. Here it is admitted that Mitchell knew of the intrusion
law, and the circumstances of the dispute relative to titles in this county.
Mitchell, therefore, bought with his eyes open, and now comes forward to be
i-elieved from his contract.In such case what-is the language of a Court of Chanceryl If both parties ieant what they did, and were acquainted with the whole
circumstances of the bargain, and if neither was deceived, the agreement
must stand.
The maxim oflaw is true, that where two persons engage in an illegal transaction, the condition of the defendant shall be preferred; but as this maxim
supposes the contract to be illegal, it cannot apply here.
Upon the whole, gentlemen, fyou are ofopinion, that the defendant knew and
was acquainted with every material circumstance relative to the bargain, it is
your duty to make him pay the money, with the interest thereon; but if you
are of opinion he was in any degree imposed upon, or purchased ignorantly,
in that case you ought to find a verdict in his favour.
The jury retired a few minutes, and returned with a verdict in favour of the
plaintiff, for the amount of the sum mentioned in the note, with interest.
466.

SuP! E E COURT Or PENNSYLVANIA.
466. 5 T. Rep. 599. Cowp. 341. Carth. 252. Cro. E. 788. 11o.
165. .Esp. 88. 2 Wils. 133. 32 H. 8. c. 9. Zkoore, 564.

For the defendant in error, his right to recover the debt was
maintained on various grounds: 1st. Because the bill, or note, is
good at common law. 2d. Because the drawer of the note, received a consideration for it. 3d. Because it was given witiout
fraud, or imposition, under a knowledge of all the circumstances.
4th. Because it would be good even as a voluntary bond. 5th.
Because it is not rendered void by any statilte; the acts of assembly subjecting an intruder to indictment and eviction, but never,
in any instance, declaring a contract for the land, or a security
for the price, to be unlawful and void. 6th. That it is not
against the policy of the law (as in the cases cited upon smuggling) to allow a recovery of the debt. 3 State Laws, 703. Dall.
edit. 4 Ibid. 198. 1 Burr. 545. Cro. 1. 643. 1 Show. 398. Cowp.
524. 650. 2 Atk. 251. 2 Vez. jun. 422. 1 Wis. 229. 4 Burr.
2069. 3 T. Rep. 418. 2 Burr. 1077. 3 T. Rep. 456. 6 T. Rep.
61. 7 T. Rep. 601. Doug. 670. Bous. &? Pull. 3. Esp. 18.
After great consideration, the Judges delivered their opinions
at large, seriatim, pronouncing the contract, on which the bill, or
note, was given, to be unlawful, immoral, and against the public
policy of the law. They, therefore, decided, that no Court of
justice in Pennsylvania could lend its aid to effectuate such a
contract; and, consequently, reversed the judgment of the Court
of Common Pleas. (2)

Judgment reversed.
IV. Tilghman, for the plaintiff in error.
Rawle., for the defendant in error.

Passmore versus Pettit and Bayard.

T

HIS case came before the Court, on exceptions to the feport of referees, who had exercised the right of appointing
an umpire, under the rule of reference. After argument by A.
Levy, for the plaintiff, and by MKean and Dallas, for the defendants, the Chief 7ustice delivered the unanimous opinion of
the Court, for setting aside the report, on the following grounds:
By the COURT: 1st. When an umpire
he stands in the same situation, precisely,
selves, both with respect to powers to be
to be performed. He may examine, and

is chosen by referees,
as the referees themexercised, and duties
he ought to examine,

(2) The same principle has been decided in .Aaybin, surviving Partner,E,:
v. Coulon; and in Duncznson v. MLure; both cases of contravening the act of'
congress, for registering vessels of the United State3.

.071
1803.

