SUPREME COURT
Or

PENNSYLVANIA.

December Term 1798.
Nicholson's Lessee versus Wallis.

T

HIS cause had been decided, by the board of property, in
favour of the defendant, upon a caveat, respecting lands
in Northumberland county, on the 14th of February 1796; but
the patert was staid for six months, within which time, the party
is allowed, by the act of assembly, to enter his suit, at common
law, in the nature of an appeal. 3 State Laws, 213. s. 11. Dall.
edit. For that purpose, a declaration in ejectment was framed,
entitled as of April term 1796; it was served by a private hand
(not the sheriff) on the defendant, in Philddelpha, on the 10th
of August 1796; and it was entered on the docket of the Supreme
Court, on Saturday, the 20th of August 1796: but the Court had
risen (contrary to the usual practice, and the expectation of the
bar) on the preceding day, when, of course, the term ended.
In April 1797, a rule was obtained, by'the defendant, to show
cause, why the ejectment should not be struck off the docket; on
the ground, that it was not entered, within the six months allowed by the act of assembly. And, upon the argument, in chief,
at the present term, it was contended, that the cause was not in
the possession of the Court, until the process was returned. 6 7'.
Rep. 617.; that, in the case of the sheriff, the Court might have
called for a return, but not in the case of a special agent, emploved by the plaintiff to execute a writ; 4 T. Rep. 119.; and
that a service of the declaration in ejectment upon the defendant,
is not an entry of the suit, within the terms, or meaning, of the
law.
The plaintiff's counsel, urged the injustice, that would be done,
by a mere matter of accident and surprise, if the rising of the
Court, a day earlier than the usage, shoUld be the ground ol
quashing the present suit. They further insisted, that the servicc

155

CAsxs RULED AID ADJTDGED, &C,

vice of the declaration in ejectment upon the defendant, was a 1798;
'commencement of the suit within six months, according to the '-,-'
spirit and intention of the law; that the declaration was the only
process in ejectment; 2 Sell. Pr. 164. tl)at it might be served on
the tenant himself, in any place; though if the service was on a
165.
wife, or servant, it must be on the premises; 2 Cromp. -Pr.
Runn. Eject. 155. that the sheriffs of the several covnties were
now obliged, by law, to serve declarations in ejectment; 3 State
Laws, 170. s. 10. Dal. Edit. that the return is the certificate of
the sheriff, stating what has been done touching the execution of
the writ; Compi. Sheriff, 144. Dall. 162. and that the proceedings of a special bailiff, being recognised by lair, as a competent
person to serve the process in ejectment, must be as effectual as
the proceedings of the sheriff.
After consideration, the COURT were of opinion, that the
cjectment was well brought, within the six months allowed by
the.act of assembl,: and ordered that the rule to show cause be
discharged.
Rule discharged.

Keppele et at. versus Carr et al.
Carr et al. versus Keppele et al.

T

HE case was, briefly, this: Kepple and Zantzinger, Phila-"
deiphia merchants, being indebted to Carr and Sons, English merchants, for goods sold and delivered, bought a bill of
exchange from (tohn S-wamvich for the amount, drawn in their
favour and indorsed by them; delivered the bill to one of the
partners of Carr and Sons, who was in Philadelphia, but whp
expressly refused to remit it, on the account and risque of
his house; and informed Carr and Sons by'letters, dated, respectivelv, the 20th of aiy, and 20th of june 1796, "that the
" bill, wihen paid, will be in full for merchandize (high cbarged)
" to ourG. Keppeh',by your invoice dated the 31st ofY.March 1795."
The bill was duly presented and protested for non-acceptance,
on the 27th of juzne, and for non-payment, on the 29th of August
1796; and, on its being returned, with the protest, n6tice was regularIy given to the drawer and indorsers. Keppele and Zant;zinger then (about the 5th of Novembcr 1796) tendered to Carr
the principal and interest of the bill, and demanded restitution
of it, with the protest; but Carr refused to accepx the tender, or
to deliver up the bill; saying "that he would settle the bill him" self with Swanzvick:" whereupon Zantzinger declared,
We
*
" shall consider the bill at your risque, from this day." Carr
then entered into an arrangement with Swanivick, took his
promissory note for principal, damages, and charges, and delivered to him the bill and protest. Before the note became due,

S'7anLick

