SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

April Term 1790.
Geyer's Lessee versus Irwin.

T

S ejectment, depending in Alleghany county was marked
br trial, on the list of causes at Nisi Prius. The defendanes attorney, after looking at the papers of the opposite party,
confessed judgment.
TIt

Bat now Lewis, producing an affidavit of a just and legal defence, moved to set aside the judgment, on the ground, principally, that the defendant was a member of the general assembly,
attending his public duty at Philadelphia,at the time of marking
the cause for trial, and confessing the judgment. He said, that
the attorney had been compelled, either to go to trial, or to con.
fess judgmrent; and that not being possessed of his client's proofs,
he had preferred the latter course: but, he insisted, that, during
the session of the legislature, every member was privileged
against the necessity of attending to his private suits; and that.
therefore, the cause had been irregularly placed upon th.e trial list.
Ingersoll, for the plaintiff, denied, that the legislative privilege
extended to the present case; and urged, that even if it was a
case of privilege, the attorney had waived it, by omitting to object at the proper time.
By the COURT: A member of the general assembly is, undoubtedlv, privileged from arrest, summons, citation, or other
civil process, during his attendance on the public business confided to him. And, we think, that upon principle, his suits cannot be forced to a trial and decision, while the session -of the
legislature continues.
But every privileged person must, at a proper time, and in a
proper manner, claim the benefit of his privilege. The judges
arc

108
1790.
t.-.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

are not bound, judicially, to noice a right of privilege, nor to
grant it without a claim. In the present instance, neither the defendant, nor his attorney, suggested the privilege, as an objection
to the trial of the cause: and, this amounts to a waiver, by which
the party is forever concluded.
We are, therefore, unanimously of opinion, that the judgment
cannot now be set aside, or opened.

Carson versus Hood's Executors.
4' 1,
7h "721

"-EBT. Plea, nil debet. The principal point in this case was,
D
whether debt would lie against executors, on a simple contract of the testator?
Bradord, for the- plaintiff, stated the rule to be, that if the
executors demur to the action, they are entitled to judgment;
but, if they plead to issue, they cannot, afterwards, make the objection:. and the following authorities were cited to maintain the
distinction. Cro. B. 600. 557. Cro. C. 187. Cro. .E. 121. 1 4nd.
182. Golds. 106. Leon. 165. Vaugh. 99. 1 Sid. 333. Plowd.
Rep. 182. Palm. 32. Cro. E. 435. 459. Telv. 56. 1 Lev. 200.
1 Vent. 139. Vaugh. 97.

The COURT, being unanimously of this opinion, gave judgment,
for the plaintiff: having, on a preliminary point, decided, that
after a verdict, they vilj presume, every thing was done, at the
trial, which was necessay to support the action, unless the contrary appeared upon the record. 3 Burr. 1725. 1729. 1 Wils.
:Z25. 2 Stra. 1180.

