168
1790.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THr.
suffering goods to remain in the hands of the defendant, after
Sthey were levied upon, furnished no presumption of fraud here,
as it did in England; and that this departure from ihe English
rule arose from sentiments of humanity, and the peculiar necessities of the country. In the interior of the state, particularly, it
was the universal practice not to remove the goods after a levy.
If, however, the intention of leaving them with the defendant
was fraudulent, a subsequent execution would be preferred, in
Pennsylvania, as well as in England. In the present instance,
there is no proof of fraud; the first levies are, of course, good;
and the sheriff must pay the money arising from the sales accordingly. (1) •

Pemberton's Lessee versitS Hicks.
HIS cause (which was argued in Decemberterm 1 798, 3 Dall.
Rep. 479.) was kept under advisement till the 23d of December 1799, when SIPPElm, Chief .ustice, and YFATr.5, Yustice, were of opinion with the plaintiff, and SMITH, YU6stiCe, was
of opinion with the defendant.
judgment for the plaintiff. (1)

Kesselman's Lessee versus Old.

B

Y the statute of 4 Anne, c. 16. s. 21. it is enacted, that "all
" collateral warranties, which shall be made after the first
ic day of Trinity term, of any lands, tenements, or hereditamnents,
" by any ancestor, who has no estate of inheritance in possession
" in the same, shall be void against his heir."
In the present ejectment, the point was, whether the plaintiff
was estopped by a collateral warranty of his ancestor, who had
no estate of inheritance, in possession, of the premises?
After argument, and taking time to deliberate, the opinion of
the COURT was delivered by SIIpIp,, Chief Y'ustiee, that there
was no trace of the extension of the statute of the 4 Anne, c. 16. to
Pennsylvania, by legislative authority, or judicial practice: and,
(1)in Chancellor v. Philips etaL September term 1800, and several other
cases, the law has been stated in a similar manner. But in the case of the
v. Cunninghant, in the Circuit Court, belbre ffudges TILoGuNAJ~,
United State-.
BASSET,

and

GRIFFITH,

the same subject was fully discussed; and the

Court adhered to the common law rule., notwithstanding the decisions in
Pennsylvania.
(2) M'KEAx, G0.Y., presided at the argument of the cause; but, being
clected governor of the commonwealth, in October 1799, he took no part in the
decision. He informed the Reporter, however, that his opinion was decidedly
in favour of the defendant.
consequentlz

