CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

April Term 1800.
Present CHASE, an Associate Judge of the Supreme Court,
I-ETERS, District Judge.

O'Harra versus Hall.
This was an action brought by the assignee of a
C ASE.
bond, against the assignor, upon a written assignment, in

general terms. On the trial, I2gersoll, for the plaintiff, offered
parol testimony to show, that the defendant had expressly
guaranteed the payment of the bond. W. Tilghman objected,
that as the contract of the parties was in writing, no parol testimony could be admitted, on a trial at law, to vary iti expressions
and import. Ingersollreplied, that wherever there is an oral misrepresentation at the time of a sale, or transfer, even though the
principal bargain is reduced to writing, the misiepresentation
may be proved. A Court of equity would, in such case, grant
relief; and even the Courts of law are now accustomed to regard
actions on the case, like the present, as bills in equity. Mkioses v.
.i1'Farlan. 2 Burr. 1005. 1 Dall. Rep. 428.
CHASE, yustice. You may explain, but you cannot alter, a
written contract, by parol testimony. A case of explanation, implies uncertainty, ambiguity, and doubt, upon the face of the
writing. But the proposition now, is a plain case of alteration:
that is, an offer to prove by witnesses, that the assignor promised
something, beyond the plain words and meaning of his written
contract. Such evidence is inadmissible; and has been so adjudged by the Supreme Court, in Clarke v. Russel, 3 Dall. Rep.
415. As to the authority of ZIosecs v. M1'PFarlan, it has always
been suspected, and has lately been over-ruled, on the principle..
that

CAs Es. RULED

A

6 ADJUDGED,

341

&c.

that the previous decision, ther brought into question, was pro-

nounced by a competent Court.
I grant, that chancery will not confine itself to the strict rule,
in cases of fraud, and of trust. But we are sitting as Judges at
common-law; and I can perceive no reason to depart from it.
PETERS, yustice. If we were sitting as Judges in a state
Court, I should be inclined to admit the testimony, in order to
attain the real justice of the cause; as theie is no Court of equity
in Pennsylvania. But there is no such defect in the federal jurisdiction; and, therefore, when the party comes to the common
law side of the Court, he must be content with the strict common law rule of evidence.

The United States versus Cooper.

T

HE defendant, being indicted for a libel on the President,
applied to the Court, for a letter to be addressed by them,
to several members of congress (congress being in session) requesting their attendance as witnesses, on his behalf. In support
of.the application, a variety of similar cases arising under the
government of Pennsylvania, were referred to.
CHASE, Yustice. The constitution gives to every man, charged
with an offence, the benefit of compulsory process, to secure the
attendance of his witnesses. I do not know of any privilege to
exempt members of congress from the service, or the obligations,
of a subpxna, in such cases. I will not sign any letter of the kind.
proposed. If, upon service of a .ubpwna, the members of congress do not attend, a different question may arise; and it will
then be time enough to decide, whether an attachment ought, or
ought -not, to issue. It is not a necessary consequence of nonattendance, after the service of a subpwna, that an attachment shall
issue. A sAtisfactory reason may appear to the Court, to justify,
or excuse, it.
PETERS,

tusticc. I know the practice in Pennsylvania to bt

as it has been stated; for, I have received such letters, from th6
Supreme Court, while I was speaker of the house of representatives, fequesting 'that members might be permitted to attend as
witnesses. In the present case, I should have no objection to
acquiesce in the defendant's application, with the concurrence of
ihe presiding Judge.
Motio'n refused.

Murgatroyd

1800.

