7;S

CASS RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THr.

i803. the witnesses, and.the docufhents, for himself, in the presence
k-.-i of the parties, without relying solely upon the information or
facts reported by the referees. This rule was settled in the case
of Falconer v. Mdntgornery; (1) and it is highly important to
the administration of justice, that it should be observed. It has
not been observed upon the presenft occasion; and, therefore,
the report cannot be confirmed.
2d. Again: it is essential to the fair and satisfactory investigation of facts, that an opportunity should be afforded to obtain
and produce the necessary evidence, however distant the scene
of the transaction may be. A Court of justice will always allow
time, for the execution and return of a commission, wh en witnesses reside abroad. In the present case, the question turned
upon the sea-worthiness of a ship; and time Was asked by the
defendants to produce testimony from Halifax, where she had
undergone a survey and repairs. This was refused, without any
reason to suppose, that the object in asking it was mere delay
and vexation. The refusal has deprived the party of the means
of defence before the referees; and we cannot think it just, to
place him out of the reach of all .remedy, by confirming the
fiport.
3d. Ori the subject of the reference, all the testiinony should be
heard, all the documents should be seen, by both the parties, in the
presence of the referees. But it appears, that a paper, or ex pArte
affidavit, was produced before the referees and umpire, respecting
the sea-worthiness of the ship (the very gist of the controversy)
which the defendants never had an opportunity of reading, or examining. The referees and umpire are, undoubtedly, honest men;
but they have .erred in judgment; and their errors cannot be sanctioned, by an affirmance of the report, which their errors alone
may have produced.
The report was, accordingly, set aside, and the judgment
entered upon it, opened.

Bell versus Beveridge.
HIS was an action upon an open policy, dated the 10th of
LMarch 1793, on goods on board the Andrew, capt. Macken,
bound from Charleston to Amsterdam. The ship, sailing on the
voyage insured, was captured,' on the l1th of April 1793, by a
French privateer, and carried into L'Orient, where, after a few
days deteption, she was acquitted and restored. On the 26th of
April 1793, however, the French government seized the cargo,
for public use, promising to pay a Hiberal fixed price for it to the
owners; but, after repeated bolic:tations, the consignee, in 1796,
T

(2j See a.e, P. 232.'

abandoned

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA2

27.3

abandoned the hope of seeing a performance of the promise, and 1803.
returned to America. It appeared, on the trial of the cause, that

the captain's protest, dated the 17th of May 1793, had been
transmitted to the owners of the ship, in Philadelphia,under
cover of a letter from Amsterdam, dated the 17th of May 1793;
and'the notice of the capture was given by them to the plaintiff,
at least, as early as the month of August 1793. The yellow fever
soon afterwards made its appearance in the city; and the plaintiff retired, with his family, into the country, on the 10th of September; but, in common with the rest of the citizens, he returned, after the calamity had ceased, about the 19th of Arovember;
and then went on a journey of business to South Carolina. It
was not, however, until the 21st of _anuary 1794, that he intimated to the underwriters an intention of abandonment; and,
even then, he did not directly abandon, but only stated, in a letter,

'"

that he meant to abandon."

The general question was, whether the abandonment, had been
made in due season, to entitle, the plaintiff, in this case, to recover for a total loss?
The defendant contended, that the words of the" letter from
the plaintiff, did not amount to an actual abandonment; but only
imported an intention to abandon; that by such equivocalilanguage, he was enabled to take for himself all the chances of an
advantageous settlement in France: while the defendant was not
empowered to pursue the property on account of the underwriters; that, independent of the ambiguity of the letter, intimating his intettion to abandon, the abandonment was not made
in a reasonable time, on the 21st of 7anuary 1794, notice of the
loss having been received in August 1793; and that the excuse
of the yellow fever, though it would apply to a personal interview, Would not apply to a communication by writing. Parh,
161, 2. 2 Dall. Rep. 284. 1 Burr. 349. 2 Burr. 697. 5 Burr.
1241. 3 Atk. 195.. 2 Burr. 683. 2 Burr. 1198. 1214. Doug.
219. 1 T. Rep. 608. 1 Esp. N. P. Rep. 237. Parh,192. 2 Z'ag.
175. 416. Parh, 92. 82. 81. (a) 172.
The plaintiff's counsel insisted, that under the peculiar circumstances of the case, the abandonment was made in due season; *flad that the terms of the abandonment were sufficiently
positive.
The COURT, in the charge to the jury, stated, that no particular form of words was necessary to constitute an abandonment;
that by declaring he meant to abandon, the plaintiff had made
his election, and could never afterwards retract. That an abandonment must be made within a reasonable time; but that what
constituted a reasonable time, was a question of fact, depending
upon the relative situation of the parties, the time, and the place,
after
'2N
Vo.. IV.

2ASES

274

RULED AND ADjIuDGED IN THF,

1803. after notice to the assured of the loss; and that, in the present
.
case, there did not appear to have been any design to .waive the
right of abandonment, though its exercise was suspended by a
public calamity, and other fortuitous occurrences.
Upon the whole, the opinion of the Court was in favour of the
plaintiff, and the Jury'gave a verdict accordingly.

t.

Kingston.versus Girard,
ASE, on a policy of insurance, to recover for a total loss,
by capture. On the trial bf the cause two points of defence
were urged: 1st. That there had been a deviation; inasmuch as
the vessel tradedat the port to which she was carried by the captor. -Park,311,312, 313. 295. 2d. That the extra expenses for
wages, provisions, &c. during a capture and detention, were
not a subject of general average; but a charge on the freight.
Pa4, 54, 55. Abb. 285. 3. 1 East, 220. .7ones et al. v. The In.
surazc Company of North Anzerica. (1).
(

It was admitted, by the plaintiff's counsel, that after the vesse was carried into the port of the captor, and before she was
liberated, the extra-expenses were not a subject of general
average; but, they insisted, that the expenses, subsequent to the
liberation, were general average. Parh,54. 2 Marshal, 462. 1. 4.
By the COURT: If the vessel, after her release, remained at
Martinique,to which she was carried by the captor, longer than
was necessary to prepare for her voyage, and for the purpose of
trading, it was a deviation; and the policy is void.
Whether the e;Ktraordinary expense incurred for seamen's
wages, provisions, &c. during the detention of the vessel, upon a
capture as prize, is a subject of general average, forms an important question. In the case of. Yones et al. v. The Insurance Company of North-Ainerica, we decided, unanimously (and' our
opinion is strengthened by mature reflection) that such expenses,
during an embargo in a foreign port, in the course of the voyage
insured , are not general average, but a charge upon the freight,
for which the underwriters upon the freight alone, must furnish
an indemnity. We think, that the same principle embraces the
case of detention for the purposes of a quarantine. In the case
of detention, by capture as prize, there is not, however, any
direct authority to decide the responsibility; and the principle of
the other cases, does not embrace it. Elementary writers,
Beawes and Magens, differ in opinion. It is, upon the whole, a
safe, and the best, rule, to consider, whether the expence is incurred, for the general benefit of all the parties interested, in
(1) Since reported, ante p. 246.

ship,

