SX3PR 'ME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

221

;ign, or conversation, or action, to depreciate the estate, and to 1800.
secure it for himself at an undervalue? No: he employed another
person, secretly, to bid for him, while he deceitfflly threatened
his own bidder, and seriously threatened every other bidder, with
a law suit. And, wherever there is an appearance of fraud, the
inadequacy of price, though hot conclusive in itself to avoid a
sale, affords an argument of great weight against a purchaser, to
whom the fraud is imputed.
Here, then, it is important to remark, that fron the special nature of the proceeding under the trieasurer's precept, the defendant had no opportunity of applying to any Court, for immediate
relief: but we do not hesitate to declare, that if a case were
broughtbefore us, under such circumstances, we should certaim.
ly set aside the sale.
It now, however, becomes the province of the jury to decide
upon the evidence, whether Richeson's cqnduct was fair and proper; without a sinister view t& get the land at an under.price.
If they think it was, the verdict will bi in his favour.. If they
think otherwise, the defendant must prevail..
Verdict for the defendant. (1)

M'Laughlin's Lessee versus Dawson. (2)'
JECTMENT for 400 acres.of land, lyihnk north-west.of the
river Ohio. Both parties claimed unddi ettlement rights.
'The defendant's improvement commenced one 'day earlier than
the plaintiff's; but the -plaintiff had the first warkant; and he had
been constantly resident on the land, .except when he left it,
through imminent danger from the Indians. The defendant's
improvements 'were greater than- those of the plaintiff, (for, he
was a richer "man) but. he was often absent fro m the premises,
sometimes as a volunteer in the jdublic service, and sometimes.
living, at a distance, with his father, or brothers.
E

The, COUT, in the charge to the jury, strongly preferred the
cliim of the plaintiff, on accounit of his constant residence on the
premises;- except wNhen "obliged to retir, -from a reasonable :apprehension of danger. They tneitioned the case of EivalsLes.fee v. Fighlands, (ante, p. 162.) and.
a said, that the maturest re*lection'sa:tisfied them of the propriety and correctness of the principle" there laid d6wn: to wit; that to c6nstitute a legal settlement, it must be accompanied with personal residence; unless
(t) Tried in the Circuit Court, Xorta zmerland ;ounty, on the 17ith of Oa..
1800, before Snzrpmv, C.Y., and BRACKENRID'G,
.
(2) Tricd at .P.ttsbi,rh, %.*,
i 'rhia,'Oto!.er 1800; bcfore Y ITEs and SXIIT!r.

!2

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. such danger exists, as would operate on the mind of a man of
Sreasonable firmness.
Verdict, accordingly, for the plaintiff.
Woods, for the plaintiff.
Ross, for the defendant.
Pollock versus Hall.

Same versus Same.

T HESE
causes were referred, on the 22d of january 1800,
by agreement of the parties, and several meetings were
held by the referees, at which the parties exhibited their respective proofs, and were heard by themselves or their agents. The
plaintiff conceiving, however, that he had more evidence, which
might be produced at a future period, or conjecturing, that the
referees were unfavourable to his claims, ordered the actions to
be discontinued, on the 21st of April 1800, and gave notice of
the discontinuance to the defendant. But the referees proceeded to decide upon the matters referred; and, on the 10th of May
1800, filed a report, finding for the defendant the sum of 2,300
dollars. To this report exceptions were exhibited, alleging,
among other objections to a confirmation, that the actions-were
discontinued. It became, therefore, a leading question, whether,
under the circumstances stated, the plaintiff had a right to discontinue?
Dallas argued in the affirmative: 1st. That a plaintiff has a
right to discontinue his action, at any time before the merits are
judicially decided. It is true, that the English authorities say it
must be done by leave of the Court; but before, or after, decla.
ration filed; after demurrer joined and-entered; after verdict on
a writ of inquiry; and even after a special verdict; the leave of
the Court is granted as matter of course. Sherd. Pr. 534, 5.
Barn. 170. 6 T. Rep. 616. Cro. Y. 35. 1 Salh. 178. Gilb. 272.
7 T. Rep. 6. Barn. 169. Carth. 87. 2d. That the case of a trial
by jury, and the cahe of a reference, do not, in this respect, differ. The act of assembly places a report of referees on the same
footing as a verdict; and does not affect, in any manner, the
power of the plaintiff over his suit. 3d. That the practice of Pennsylvania, both on general principles, and under the statute, has
been uniform, in favour of the plaintiff's right. A discontinuance, indeed, no more requires the act of the Court, than a non
pros, when the plaintiff prevents a verdict, though he could not
prevent a trial. The records of the Court will establish the right
:of discontinuance, before and after issue joined, by the mere act
of' the plaintiff: Lloyd's Lessee v. Taylor. Sept. T. 1764. Plym's
Lessee

