C SES RULED- AND ADJUDGED, &C.

12t

I1st. Sergeant and Ingersoll, for the defendants, moved to non- 1792.
suit the plaintiffs, because there was no proof of a lease from
Pemberton to -ancarrow, as the declaration averred. The only
ground of recovery in this action, is either, that the defendants
actuallv opcupied the premises; or that the plaintiffs, in pursuance of the bargain, had vested them with a right of occupancy.
Now, the'lease of the defendants was made dependent upon the
lease of Pemberton; and non constat that such a lease existed,
as it has not been produced, or any regular account given of it.
Doug. 642, 3.
But, by the COURT: *Whether it is necessary, or not, in this
action, to prove the existence of a lease from Pemberton, there
is no ground for a nonsuit.. The plaintiffs have offered some
evidence to show, that- .Aancarrow possessed a term in the
house; and of the operation and effect of that evidence, how,tver it applies 'to the issue, the jury must judge and decide;
2d. In the charge to the jury, it was stated by the COURT, that
the cause depends upon a single fact, whether Nancarrow had
a right of passage through the front, into the back, cellar? The
affirinative, it was incumbent on, the plaintiffs to prove; but
they had not proved it, either by written, or parol, evidence.
Then, the law declares, that such an inteiruption, in the.enjoyment of the premises, demised, will. suspend the rent.
Verdict for the defendants.

The Commonwealth versus Margaret Biron.
NDICTMENT for the murder of Yane ZPlIGlaughlin. - It
appeared in evidence, on the trial,, that Hugh 1cGiaughlin,
the husband of the deceased, rented from the prisoner, a part of
the house, in which she lived; that on the 10th of 'une 1792,
while it rained hard, a noise was heard at the house, and the
deceased waA attempting to get in; that she said, "You whore,
let me come in;" and the prisoner said, " You whore, you

sh'"nt;" that the deceased appeared to be then in liquor, though
by all accounts, she was a very quiet woman; that the prisoner
op ned the door, and she and the deceased began to struggle,
when the former pushed the latter down the steps, and her head
struck the wall; that the deceased seemed to be bent by her
fall, and the prisoner came out of the house, saving, " Ah!
" this is the way I am troubled with this kind of people'. her
" husband, has just left her -in this situation;" that th witness observed, " You pushed her down," to which she answered,
44 I did not;" but, after the deceased was carried into the house,
she acknowledged that she had done it, and said she was in a
great passion; and that the deceased and the prisoner used before

126

C~sts

RULED ANb ADJUDGED, &C.

1792. fbre to quarrel, but had not been seen to strike each other. On
L.-v.j examining the deceased, Dr. Hutchinson said, that he found
considerable injury done to the bone on one side of the head;
but that the wound was not necessarily mortal; and he thought,
from appearances, that the deceased must have been intoxicated,
at the time of her fall.
By the CouRT: The circumstances present to the consideration of the jury, a case of atrocious manslaughter; but, in our
opinion, no more.
Verdict, guilty of manslaughter, but not guilty of murder. (1)
(1) The indictment was tried in a Court of Oyer and Terminer, in Philadeida county, on the 19th of roenher1792.

