S

E E COURT OP PENNSYLVANrA.

tract: so that, it would seem, one might begin on one quarter,
and another on the other quarter, till they meet.
But if the priority of improvement is clear, that being the spot
designed by the improver, ought, perhaps, to be assigned to him.
It no other rule can be taken, the priority of date, ought to
give the preference to the party whose warrant is oldest, to lord
it as he chuses.
Verdict f6r the plaintiff, &c.

Massey et al. Executors of Massey versus Learning. (1)

D

EBT. Plea, payment, with leave to give the will of testatrix
in evidence.
The case was, simply, this: Mrs. -assey, the testatrix, was
in a low state of health for some time before her death; the defendant took the charge of her affairs, and had some accounts
against her; but he borrowed 1501. from her, for which he gavb
a bond payable in one year, with interest. On the 5th of Yune
1784, she made her will, which was proved on the 21st of June,
containing, among other things this bequest: " I give to T.
Leaming, in consideration of his many services to me, 2001. in
real specie; provided he brings no account against me and my
estate; and if he happen to bring any account against me, or my
estate, then this bequest to be -'oid;" with a devise over of the
testatrix's estate. The legacy was paid tq T. Learning; the
present action was brought upon his bond; and the question of
law arose, whether the bequest operated as a rele.ise?
The plaintiff's counsel suggested, that they were ready to
prove, that there was a deficiency of assets to pay debts.
Upon this suggestion, it was agreed, that a verdict be given
for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the Court whether the
bequest was an extinguishment of the debt? If it was so considered, then the plaintiff shall be at liberty to prove a deficiency
of assets, for the payment of debts.
After depending for a great period on the docket, the suit
was, finally, marked " not to be brought forward."
Tilghman and Levy, for the plaintiff.
Sergeant, for the defendant.
(I)Tried at Nisi Prius, iladp!da county, in qa;,
1792

123
1792.

