300

CASES

RULED

AND ADJDCGD IN TIME

1804. report of the referees. -Hence, we listened, with part;'ilar atten.
tion and favour to the attempt of the plaintiff's counsel to distinguish the origin of the sum reported, from the general mass
of the illicit transaction. The attempt has not, however, been
successful; -so that we must decide the question on the principles
of law, which are clearly estaulished by the authorities that have
been cited.
The positive provisions of the laws of the United States, respecting Ame.ican registered. vessels; the national policy of our
navigation system; good faith towards the belligerent powers;
and the very foundations of morality; have been violated in the
course of tle transaction, now exhibited to us. The act of the
Court is necessary to give effect to the report of the referees:
but no Court of justice of the United States can lend its aid, at
ant time, or in any degree, to recover a debt originating in a
source so forbidden, so tul, and so pernicious. The report cannot,-therefore, be affirmed. (1)
Report set aside.
Ingersoll, E. Tilghman, and Levy, for _4aybin.
Du .Ponceau"
and Dallas,for Coulon.

Deshler versus Beery.

T

HIS was an action of dower, by the widow of David D'sh/er, against the tenant of the premises, tried at Ea'ton.
N'orthampton county, the"27th of yine 1804.
In point of fact, it appeared, that Lesher died, leaving a will.
dated the 2d of .November 1796, in which he bequeathed to his
wife a legacy of 10001., his hous'ehold goods, and a house for
Ilie; and "appointed her executrix, and jVeuhart and Schrudder
executors. Befdre his death, he had sold and conveyed the premists to George Eddy, taking bonds and a mortgage for the purchase money; but Eddy's conveyance was not recorded. The
ex-cutorb instituted a suit, obtained judgment, and issued execution against Eddy; in consequence of which, the same property
was levied upon, and advertised for :,ale. At the instance of the
wvidow (the present plaintiff) Neulhart, one of the executors, be(l-)
It appcared, that one of the refercc% upon discovering the illicit nature
t'i.e
transacti,, declined pioceeding; but was persuaded to resume the
biN'-ness of the reterence, in consequence of an urgent letter firom May'in,
al pealing particularly to the sympathy and benevolence of the referee. One
of Cmno,'s exccptions to the report, %as pointed at this ex parte communica.
tion; and the Covr'r, in delivering their opinion upon the general question,
Ctatec, in strong terms, their disapprobation of one of the prties addressing
the v-Coees, h%way ot'cohfidene, oi- soliciation, pending the ieference, though
the letter should not contain any retuarks on the merits of the controversy.

came

STT" REVM

COURT OF PENNSY

VLA..A.

30O

vAme the purchaser, for the use of the estate; and the sheriff 1804.
executed a deed to him, on the 9th of 7une 1801. And, with
the knowledge, consent, and approbation, of the widow, he resold and conveyed the property, to Beery (the present defendant) on the 30thi of .7uly 1801. During these transactions, the
widow never suggested a claim of dower; but there were several judgments against Deshier'sestate, at the time of the sheriff's
sale; and his debts, generally, far exceeded the assets for paying
them.
The plaintif's counsel insisted, that there was no relinquishment of the right of dower, on the sale to Eddy; that the sheriff's sale, on the judgment against Eddy, for the pri,e of his
purchase, could not extinguish the right of dower; and that the
present tenant, if he had not direct notice of the widuow's claim,
had notice by a legal and equitable presumption, as his title depended on deeds, that naturally led to the inquiry. 2 BI. Corn.
132. Co. Lit. 32, 3. 1 F1%)bl. Eq. 22. 2 Fonbi. 147. 159. 9 Mdod.
37. 2 Atk. 83. 3 Br. Ch. 264.
For the defendant, it was urged, that in Pennsylvania there is
no claim of dower in lands sold by legal process, for the'payment of debts; that dower is barred, even in the case of a mortgage for a debt, -though the wife does not join in the deed. 2 Dall.
Rep. 127.; (1) that the money recovered from Eddy has been ap-

plied to the payment of debts; that there is no difference, as to
the claim of dower, between the case of a power by will, to sell
for the payment of debts, and the case of the widow's consent to
make such a sale; and that the widow's silence, on the subject
of this claim, throughout the transaction, operates as a bar and
estoppel, to her enforcing it, against a bona fide purchaser, for. a
valuable consideration, without notice. 1 P. T1rns. 393. 1 Ponbl.
Ea. 151. 18 rin. Abr. 112. Finch. Rep. 103. Prec. Chan. 35.
1 Eq. Abr. 355, 356. Ca. 8. 10. 9 iVdd. 37. 2 Vern. 370. 580.

Cowlp. 201.
YrATES, 7ustie.
rs. Deshler is entitled to recover her
dower in the premises, unless the peculiar circumstances of the
case operate as a bar. The circumstances relied upon to produce
that effect, are these: she made Neuhart her agent to buy the
land at the sheriff's sale; and she approved of the purchase,
after it was made. She, also, knew and approved of the re-sale
to the defendant, at a full price, and uncharged with dower; and.
until the defendant had paid the price, she never set up the pre(1) E. Tilghman, on the trial, reported Lacock's case, referred to in 2 Dall
Rep. 127 to be a (lecisitn, "thatldower was bar;ed, where the husband aine
inortgaged land; and Ids executor,, under a po .,er in the will, withs the cl.sent of the mortgagee, sold the land. fbr the paL ment of debt"

502

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1804. sent claim. The motives of Mrs. Deshler, in observing this siU
lence, cannot be positively ascertained; but she might think, that,
if the land sold high, in consequence of appearing clear of every
incumbrance, there would be the better prospect, that her legacy
of 1000/. would be paid.
LIpon the whole, the jury will decide, whether Mrs. Desiler's
line of conduct held up to the public, and, particularly, to the
parties, that she meant to waive the claim of dower. If it did,
the verdict should be against her. If it did not, and the jury
think, that she alwa3 s meant to assert her right of dower; thert
the verdict must be in her favour.
Verdict for the defendant

Commonmealth versus Lyon.

T

HE defendant, having made an affidavit in the usual form,
applied to SIMITH, 7ustice, for the allowance of a certiorari

to remove this indictment from the Quarter Sessions of

Aorth-

umberlandcounty, into the Circuit Court.
Cooper (acting for the attorney-general) stated the reasons,
which had induced him to decline consenting to the removal;
and the following authorities were- mentioned. The removal of
an indictment, at the instance of the'defendant, is discretionary
with the Court; but the discretion ought not to be exercised,
without special cause. 2 Hawk. 407, 8. s. 27. 4 Burr. 2458. The
removal is not usually allowed in cases of peijury, forgery, &c.
because such offences should be discouraged; and removals not
only tend to delay justice, but to discountenance prosecutions.
Ibid. 408. c. 28. The act of assembly contemplates the same
principle; for, if the attorney-general does not consent to the removal, writs of certiorariare only to be specially allowed, and
certified in writing upon the writ, by the Supreme Court, or one
of its judges, upon sufficient cause shown. 3 State Laws, 92.
Dall.edit.
SM ITH, .7ustice. It is not the practice to enter into an argument
upon applications of this nature. The defendant has made the
usual oath, as a ground for allowing the certiorari;and I shall,
of course, allow it, unless something is shown, in relation to his
character and conduct, which will induce me to suppose, that
public justice is likely to be impaired, or defeated, by the re-

n oval.

C6ooper declaring that the defendant's character was good, independent of its implication in the present charge; the Judge
immediately signed the allocatur.

