HIGH COURT
or

ERRORS AND APPEALS
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

July Session 1799..
Present MKEAN, Chief Justice.
SHIPPEN and

} Justices of the Supreme Court;

aid

RSIH,
RIDDLE,
ADDISON, and

}Presidents of the Circuits of Common
Pleas,

Ludlow, Plaintiff in Error, versus Bingharn.:
This was an action by the indorsee, against the draw.IN er,error.
of a promissory note; and the following case was submit
ted for the opinion of the Court:
I " Sometime about the end of December 1192, the defendant,
cc for a full and valuable consideration, that is to say, in conside"ration of Win. Duer, of the city of Ncvw-Tork, relinquishing to

"'him (the defendant) his the said Min. Duer's right to a certain
"portion of a contract, made with the state of faMssachusetts, for
The question involved in this cause had been argued in the Supreme
Court; but before any opinion was given by the Judges, -and in order to avoid

delay, a judgment was entered, by consent, for the defendant, on %hich the
present writ of error was brought, with an agreement, that the decision of
the High Court of.Errors and Appeals, should, also, be binding in the cases
of M'1.Eer1 v. Bingham, Service v. Bitgha'n, and M'lrrea v. Bipgham, all depending in the Supreme Court am the same facts. The present report comprises the arguments in both Courts.

is

C.8CSEs

APFIRMED OR REVE-RSED IN TAt

1799. "the purchase of a large tract of land, caused to be paid and de;
..
"livered at the city of -w-2ork to the said Win. Duer, the se" veral promissory notes in the declaration mentioned; all of
"which were drawn by the defendant, payable at the bank of
"the United States, to the order of Henry Knox, esq. a citizen of
( Massachusetts, and indorsed in blank by him to the said Win.
c. Duer, whose property they became by the said deliverT; andI
t continued so to be, until he parted therewith, as hereafter menc tioned. Ori the I1th of MAfay 1793, a foreign attachment issued
" out of the Court of Common Pleas for PhiladelphiaCounty, at
c the suit of Nicholas Fish, a citizen of the state of New-Tork,
c against the said fn. Duer, which was, on the same day, duly
i served in the hands of the defendant, with notice to him as garc nishee; and on executing a writ of inquiry, in the said attachccment, the sum of 41031. 15s. 6d. Pennsylvania currency was, on
, the 8th of Msarch 1794, found dire to the plaintiff therein, from
cc the said [Vin. Duer, and judgment thereupon rendered, which
c judgment still remains in full force and unsatisfied. At the
c time of issuing and serving the said attachment as aforesaid,
c the said notes remained in the possession, and were the property
ccof the said Win. Duer, and continued so to be, until some time
-afterwards, in the same year, when they were paid away by
c him in ANer-2ork to citizens of New-York, for a full and valu, able consideration, by delivery, and without his indorsement
c thereon; and, afterwards, they were severally paid away and
" delivered in New-Tork, by the persons so receiving them res-pectively (before the bringing of the actions) citizens of NUwi
'Crea,parts
who is a citizen ofPennsylvania) respecT ork (excepton PI
Sknowledge
their
of considerations
said attachment
having beeri
any
and without
tively for full and valuable the
C( to result
from the record of
the knowledge
as maybe deemed
such
"served
issued, other
nceedingsor thereon;
attachment,
and than
without said
any knowledge
proofand
thethe
agree"ment so as aforesaid made between the said Wim. Bingham
and Vi. Duer. It is agreed that promissory notes were, at the
"time of negotiating the said promissory notes, and still are,
"negotiated and considered in New-ork,upon the same footing
"as foreign bills of exchange, according to the custom of
"merchants.
"Questions submitted to.the opinion of the judges: Were the
"sums of money, or any part- thereof, due on the said notes,
" liable to the said attachment, and bound thereby in the hands of
" the defendant? Or, -is he bound to pay the plaintiffs in these
" causes, notwithstanding the said attachment, and proceedings
" thereon, the amount of the said notes, or any part thereof?
" After an opinion shall be given on these questions,.it is agreed,
"that the Court shall be authorised to give such judgment itt
"the several actions, as the facts here stated, and as the facts

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.

Ar'

4*that shall be brought fotward, under*ihe subjoined agreement, 1199.
cc shall induce them to deem tight."
The case was argued by Ingersolland Dallas, for the plaintiff,
and by Lewis and E. Tilghman, for the defendant.
For the plaintiff, Dallas premised, that the case admits all the
facts essential to constitute a legal right of recovery: the note
was originally issued for a valuable consideration; it was deliveied in New-21ork; all the parties to the note and the attachment,
except Bingham, are citizens of New-TorA or JI'assachusetts; it
was attached before it was due; the note vested in Duer by- the
delivery, and was afterwards divested for' a valuable consideration, without notice of the attachment, by delivery and without
Duer's indorsement; and promissory notes are on the same footing in New-Tor as foreign bills of exchange. Whether, then, we
cbnsider, 1st, the nature of the contract between the original'
parties to the note; or, 2d, the operation of the transfer, by delivery, from Duer to the purchasers of the note, the plaintiff is entitled to recove'1st. The original contract was an agreement by Bingham, to
give his own note, payable to Knox, or order, indorsed in blank, by
Knox, to Duer; and such a note is transferable merely by delivery.
Doug. 633. 9. This quality of transfer by delivery, was the essence of the contract; so that the person holding the note on the
day of payment might be entitled to receive the amount. As long
as it remained in the hands of Duer,it was susceptible of such a
transfer; the right could not be changed, modified, or defeated,
by Bingham hiniself; and though a creditor of Duer's might attach a debt due to him, he could not alter the conditions of the
contract on which the debt arose; on the one hand, to release
Binghama from the obligation of those conditions; or, on the
other hand, to injure him for performing them.
But the place of negotiating the contract was New-Tor, and
the note was actually delivered there. The law of New-rork,
therefore, is to be regarded if construing the contract and obligation of the parties. It is true, that the note is dated at Philadelphia, and is made payable at the bank of the United States:
but Philadelphiamerely designates the place of the drawer's residence; •the note is not payable at his house; and being payable
at the bank
of the United1States,
doesSwift's
not necessarily
it
payable
in Pennsylvania.
vol 284.
edit. Acts make
of Congress. The note nnever passed from the drawer in Pennsyvania;
but continued in his hands, in the nature of an escrow, till it was
delivered in New-rorh. The delivery there, first gave life to the
note. It was, of course, contemplated (as the event has proved)
that the note shbuld be negotiated where it was delivered; that it
should circulate there till the day of payment; and that on the
day of payment it should be presented at the banl,, of the United
Vol.. IV.
H
States.,

50

CASEs ArFIRMED OR REVERSED IN THE

1799.. States. Referring, therefore, to the lex loci as our guide, a promist
sory note must be regarded as a foreign bill of exchange, which
can never be affected in the hands of a bonfifide indorsee, on account of any circumstances, not appearing on the face of the instrument itself. 2 Dal!. Rep. 396. But even considering Philadelphia
as the place of executing the contract, what would be the effect?
It is the place where Binghamisto pay accordingto theterms of the
contract; that is, to pay to any bondfide holder by the indorsement
of Knox, and the delivery of Duer; so that it could not be ascertained to whom he wAs debtor on the note, till the day of payment.
There is no analogy between the present case, and the case of
.MCullough v. I-I71ston. 1 Dal. Rep. 453. There the equity allowed was between the drawer and payee, arising on a note,
which was not like a foreign bill of exchange, but was of a restricted negotiable character under an act of assembly. Even if
this had been, strictly, a Pennsylvaniatransaction, Ludlow would
only have taken the inote, on the principle of M'Cullough v. Hus.
ton, subject to the equity existing between Bingham, the drawer,
and Knox, the payee. Besides, the Court have repeatedly decided,
that the principle of that case did not apply to accommodation
notes. It is, likewise, tobe observed, that by the act of assembly
the drawer is liable for no more than is due upon the note at the
time of the first assignment; and there is no question in the
present case as to the amount, but merely as to whom the amount
is payable.
2d. The operation of Duer's transfer by delivery is conclusive.
It is a great rtling principle, that circumstances existing between
parties to a contract, shall not affect the rights of third persons.
Nothing that passed between Bingham and Duer, which the face
of the instrument does not show; no right which Fish acquired
against Duer, ought to affect Ludlow, without notice express or
implied. A latent bar ought never to impeach the validity of an
apparently good transfer of negotiable interests. 1 Lofts. Gilb.
.Evid. 194, 5. On the face of the note, the contract of Bingham
has no relation at all to Duer; it does not appear that Duer was
ever interested in it; and though it may be presumed that the first
purchaser, who took the note by Duer's delivery, was apprised of
the fact, the presumption, will not in any degree, apply to the
plaintiff. The case admits, indeed, that there was no express notice of the attachment, and there is no ground to argue an implied
notice from the record: for, even if a citizen of JN'ew-2orl, purchas.
ing a note, or a bill of exchange in New-2ork, is bound to respect
the laws of Pennsylvania, and to examine the records of all our
Courts, before his purchase, to ascertain whether an attachment
has not issued against every indorser of the note, what was there
that could lead to such an examination, in relation to Duer, who
is not a party to the note, and might be an utter stranger to the
present plaintiff? Again: if notice is to be presumed_ from the
li

51

HIGH COURT Or ERRORS AND APPEALS.

fis pendens, it applies to a negotiation in London, or Amsterdam, 1 99.
as well as in.New-orI; to a bill of exchange, or any other con- k
tract, as well as to a promissory note; and to a negotiation through
a hundred persons merely by delivery, as well as to such a negotiation by an individual. It is obvious, therefore, that the credit
and facilities of commerce would be destroyed, should such a
doctrine prevail.
The consequences of allowing the attachment as a bar would,
likewise, be peculiarly unjust and injurious to the present holder
of the note, who did not take it on the credit of Duer, and to
whom Duer is in no wise bound; If, indeed, payment to Fish is
a good payment of the note, it is a payment by the drawer; and,
of course, it extinguishes all remedy against the indorsers, whose
undertaking is merely a collateral one, to pay on the drawers default: so that the plaintiff, the last indorsee, taking the note, perhaps, on the credit of the indorsers, more than on the credit of the
drawer, is deprived of every security, without any imputable
laches on his part. But a fair holder, for a valuable consideration,
of a bill of exchange, or note payable to bearer, is protected even
against the true owner, who has been robbed, or has lost the instrument. 1 Burr. 452. 3 Burr. 1516. 1524. 1 BI. Rep. 4854 Bac. Abr. 705, 6. The attachment cannot surely amount to more
than a legal assignment: let it, therefore, be supposed, that Duer
had assigned the note to Fish, with notice to Bingham; still the
plaintiff, a purchaser of a negotiable instrument, for a valuable
consideration, without notice, would be entitled to recover. Or
let the stronger case be supposed, that on such an assignment, the
note itself had been delivered to Fish, but that he had lost it, or
had been robbed of it, that Duer had found, or had stolen it, and
afterwards had sold it, the purchaser would be entitled to receive
is exthe assignee.
notconsidering
and by
Bingkam,
moneyinfrom
the
as payable
note rule
the The
manner,
the fullest
enmplified
he is
payable,
to bearer; for, unless Duer keeps it till it is due and
there is permits
no engagenot the bearer contemplated by the contract; our
the
law
ment to pay him at all. Though, therefore,
unless
that
manifest
it is
and payable,due,
of debtstilldue
attachment the
payable
be
it could not
it was actually
note
Duer held
to him, and if not payabl0 to him, it could not be attached as
his debt. If the instrument of contract had expressly provided
that something being done by a third person, the debt should become the property of that third person, when the act was done,
remain
would Though
nothing
and could
escape, him
surely against
interest
Duet's
operate.
attachment
an must
upon which
efsame
the
not by the words, yet by the nature of the contract,
fect is produced: for, a third person being the bearer on the day
of payment, and presenting the note, at the place of payment, the
contract is to pay him; and every antecedent transmissible interest,
of which Duet was possessed, is effectually extinguished.
For

CASES AYFIRmED OR REVERSED IN TED

1799.
ty

For the defendant, E. Tilghrnan and Lewis* contended tha,
Fish, having attached, while the note was in Duer's hands, obtained a legal lien upon the money mentioned in it; although the
money was not then due from the drawer, nor had the note ever
been in the possession of the attacher; and that having pursu on
his lien, without laches, he is now entitled to the money. The
general principle of the attachment law, is clearly in favour of Fish;
and his claim must prevail, unless the plaintiff in error shows, that
the note was a species of property not liable to an attachment.
In attempting to maintain this exemptien from attachment it
has been urged, that the note is subject to the laws of A'ew-2*rk,
where promissory notes are upon the same footing with bills of
exchange; and, therefore, it was not attachable: but the fact, and
the inference deduced from it, are alike denied. The note was
executed at Philadelphia; it is dated there; it was there indorsed
by Hcnry Knox; and it is payable at the bank of the United
States. It is true, that the note was delivered to Duer in NewYork, agreeably to Bingharn's contract; but Duer well knew that
it had been previously executed in Philadelphia, and by the dclivery in Philadaiphia,Knox's indorsement took effect. An express stipulation on the face of the note, made it payable, at the
bank of the United States; and it is an established principle,
that a contract for the payment of money is to be governed by
the laws of the place, where it is payable. Prac.in Chan. 128.
2 Burr. 1083, 4. 1 Bi. Rep. 258, 9. It is not a sufficient answer,
that the bank of the United States is not permanently fixed at
Philadelphia; for, the parties to the contract, in making it the
place of payment, considered it as at Philadelphia; and there
could be no idea of a removal of the bank, while Philadelphiacontinued the seat of the federal government; inasmuch as it is expressly provided, that the officer at the head of the treasury department shall be furnished with weekly statements of the affairs
of the institution, and should be entitled to inspect the general
accounts in relation to such statements: 1 vol. 293. sect. 7. art. 16.
(Swift's edit). The place of payment was, evidently, fixed for
the drawer's convenience: and although, if there is a place appointed for payriient, a personal application need not be made to
the drawer of a note (2 Hen. B!. Rep. 509.) yet, stipulating
that payment should be made at the bank of the United States,
shows that the law of Pennsylvania was to furnish the rule, fnir
construing the legal effect of the contract.
Again, it is urged,,,that' the note was in the nature of an escrow
till it was delivered to Duer at New-Fork; and that receiving its
life in New-Torh, it must b6 governed by the law of the place of
* Tllghman having embraced in his argument on the present occasion,

41 that had been suggested by Le-vis in the Supreme Court, the latter de-

clined .ntering again into the discussion on the writ of error.

53

HIGH COURT or ERRORS AND APPEALS.

it existence. But the note is payable in four years from its date; 1799.
and, therefore, even considering it in the. nature of an escrozv, .- rwhen the condition was discharged, it took effect, with relation
to its date and execution in Philadelphia. There is nothing to
show, that with regard to this note, more than with regard to
any other note executed and payable in .Philadelphia,but delivered to the indorsee in"New-T2orh, it was in the contemplation of
the parties, that New-Tork should be the scene of negotiation.
It is in vain for the counsel to assert, that it could not have been
put in circulation at .?ew-rorh, with a view to the laws of another
state; for, the date of the note, and the place prescribed for its
payment, are premises from which the legal inference is insurmountable, that the law of Pennsylvania was contemplated. Let
it be supposed, that on the day of paymentBingham had tendered
the money at the bank of the United Ytates, when no person was
ready to receive it: the tender, if legal, would discharge him
from any claim for future interest; but by what law would the
validity of the tender have been tried? Or suppose, that the note
had been inyalid by the law of Pennsylvania, could it have been
rendered valid by reference to the law of New-TorA?
It has been objected, however, as another ground of opposi.
tion to the lien of the plaintiff in the attachment, that even an
attachment cannot prevail against the bondfde holder of the note,
for a valuable consideration, and without notice: while it remained in the hands of Duer, the adverse counsel admit, that it
was subject to an attachment; but they contend, that the defbndant in the attachment might defeat the lien, whenever he plea'sed,
by the mere delivery of the note. It will hereafter be shown,
,however, that the concession and the argument cannot be reconciled. But the corner-stone of the defence is, that notes of this
description are to be governed only by what appears on the fa~e
of the paper; and this, undoubtedly, is the law in England(whence
the authorities have been adduced) except as to attachments. In
Pennsylvania, however, the face of the paper is not the criterion,
on which a bonfifide purchaser is to judge. The distinction arises
on this grdund, 'hat in Englandthe holder of a promissory note
is not considertd as an assignee, but in Pennsylvania he is so
considered; Doug. 614. and although an indorsee in England is
discharged fi'om all equitable circumstances existing between the
original parties, which do not appear on the instrunent itself, an
ass,'ignee of a note, in Pennsylvania, is bound to resort to the
drawer, to know whether there is any defenceequitable or legal.
Showing, then, that the face of the note is not the criterion, we
destroy the very foundation of the plaintiff's claim. That the indorsee takes the note subject to all the equity between the drawer and indorser has been expressly adjudged. I Dall. Rep. 442,
3, 4. The negotiability of the note is qualified, not absolute.
The first indorsee, indeed, is- as innocent, as any subsequent one;

and

54
1799.

CAs s

AFFIRMED oR REVERSED IN THt

and if the equity of the drawer's defence against the indorser is
affect the first indorsee, there can be no just reason why it
should not equally affect the second: the face of the note is the
same in the one case, as in the other; the second indorsee can
recover no more from the drawer than the first; and it may as
fairly be contended that a payee could defeat an attachment by
indorsement, as an indorsee by delivery.
It is asked, whether it is reasonable to expect that the purchaser
of the note in market, should inquire after attachments, or liens
against Duer, whose name does not appear on the note? And
yet the plaintiff himself relies on the supposed terms, on which
the note was delivered to Duer in -New-Torh. But the fact is,
that the note came to Duer for a valuable consideration, as a
common note, not merely as an accommodation note; and our
argument is, that the face of the note affording no criterion to
protect the holder from a set-off, or attachment, against Duer, it
was incumbent on the person purchasing it, to apply to the drawer
for information, not, particularly, as to the right of Duer, but,
generally, as to the validity of the note.
The adverse counsel urge, that if payment by Bingham to Fish
will be good, then the note will be extinguished, and the holder
can have no remedy against any of the indorsers. But might
not each indorser recover from the person with whom he dealt,
in an action for money had and received? At all events, each
party to the note runs his risque; it is nothing more than the
risque run in the case of notes given in England, upon usurious
and gaming contracts; nor is it harder than the operation of the
principle in A-' Cullough v. Huston, which would have produced
the same decision, had there been twenty indorsers on the note
then in controversy.
That Fish's right could not be stronger, as plaintiff in an attachment, than as the assignee of Duer, is a position not true to
every intent. For instance; Fish might attach the debt before it
was due. Again; in the case of an assignment he would be
guilty of laches, and ought to answer, for not taking possession of
the note, or for suffering it to be lost, or stolen; but from the
very nature of the attachment, a hostile process against Duer,
Fish could not obtain the possession of the note, and the law
will aid.and supply the want or it. Nor is it correct to say, that
Bingham was a debtor to no man till the day of payment; and
then only to the bearer of the note; for, the obligation of the
drawer was coeval with the execution of the note, which was
debitum in prcesenti, solvendum in futuro; and a debt of that description is clearly attacihable. 2 Dal. Rep. 21f. Though the
drawer is guilty of some negligence in making a payment, without indorsing it on his note; yet, even in his case, it has been
shown, the payment will be allowed in Pennsylvania against a
bond fide holder, without notice: and, surely, the case against
the
Sto

HIGH COURT

or

5

ERRORS AND APPEALS.

tl~e garnishee is much stronger, the plaintiff in the attachment I 99.
being in the prosecution of a legal right, and founding his demand against the garnishee upon the positive provisions of the
act of assembly, which, though it is in some respects analogous,
in others extends further than the custom of London. The words
of the original act speak oniy, it is true, of goods, chattels and effects; but they were always construed to include debts, and even
lands; and the supplement expressly extends to the goods, chattels,
monies, effects) and credits of the defendant: 2 vol. 733. Dal. edit.
The attachment, ipso facto, secures the effects attached, to abide
the judgment of the Court: 1 vol. Penn. Laws, p. 60. Dall. edit.
The words of the domestic attachment law (a law made in pari
?nateria, and, therefore, to be regarded on the present question
of construction) expressly recognise "lands, goods, chattels, and
effects, " as objects of attachment; and among the powers vested
in the auditors under such an attachment, they are authorised "to
i grant and assign, or otherwise to .order or dispose of, all or any
" of the debts due, or to be due, to and for the benefit of the said
"defendants [in the attachments] to the use of their creditors.
"And, that the same grant, assignment, or disposition, of the
"said debts so to be made, shall vest the property, right, and
"interest, thereof, in the person or persons, to whom it shall be
" so granted, assigned, or ordered, by the auditors; so that such
" assignees may sue for and recover the said debts in their own
" names, and detain the same to their own use. And that after
"such grant, assignment, or dispbsiton, made of the said debts,
"neither the defendants, nor any other to whom such debts shall
"be due, shall have power to recover the same, nor to make any
-"release or discharge thereof." Ibid. s. 2. 7. p. 194, 5, 6, 7.The
domestic attachment has, indeed, the effect of a bankruptcy; but
if the plaintiff's doctrine is true, a bankrupt's agent may effectually, by mere delivery, pass away notes indorsed in blank.
In Carthew,26, it is said, that bills of exchange are attachable,
according to the custom of London; and the adverse counsel admits, that the note was attachable, while it remained in the hands
of Diter. But if so, how can the attachment be dissolved, without appearing to it, on the terms-of the law? There is no laches
on the part of the plaintiff; and if the note could be attached at
all, it must be effectually attached. It -is idle to allege, that the
success of the attachment must depend on the note's remain.
ing with the defendant, till the attachment had run its course.
Suppose a judgmtnt had been obtained against the garnishee before the note was due, with a stay of execution till it became
due, could this lien be defeated by a subsequent sale and delivery of the note? Suppose a suit instituted by the indorsee of a
note against the drawer, and the note afterwards lost, or stolen;
would the claim of a bona fide purchaser, in such'cases, supersede the suit, or prevail against the plaintiff in it, after he had

obtained

56

CAsEs AFrIRMED oR REVERSED IN TI-E

1799.

obtained a judgment? Suppose a bill of exchange protested for
a suit and judgment upon it, and afterwards, but
before the day of payment, it was lost; a bill may be negotiated
ifter such a protest (2 Dall.Rep. 396.) and, yet, would a purchaser be preferred to the plaintiff in the suit, or could he recover a second time from the drawer? The attachment ought, in
short, to be regarded in the nature of a suit brought by Duer
himself.
The hardship of the case is not so great, or so unprecedented,
as to require an extraordinary interposition of the Court, to
change, or modify, on equitable principles, the operation of a positive law. In .England,notes, and other securities, given upon usurious, or gaming, considerations, are void in the hands of a bond
,flde holder, for a valuable consideration, without notice, even as
against the drawer, who was accessary to the injury and embarrassment by issuing the note. In those instances, as well as in
the present instance, no warning appears on the face of the paper;
and the bar is, emphatically, a latent bar, no record existing by
wfich it could be traced, or ascertained. Is it not as reasonable,
as just, that the attachment should operate in favour of a bond
.fide creditor of Duer, who had no power to obtain possession of
the note; as that the original taint in the consideration, of a gaming, or an usurious, contract, should operate in favour of a party
to the illegal transaction?
Upon the whole, Fish has attached when the property and the
possession of the note, were both in DJuer; and his opponents
must convince the Court, that an attachment, once operative, can
be legally done away, without some laches, or relinquishment, on
his part.

.non-acceptance,

Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, in reply. The question under consideration is novel, curious, and, in its consequences,
most extensive: it is not too much to say, that the negotiable
paper of Philadelphia,depends, for its circulation abroad, upon
the event of the cause. The subject may be considered, with a
view to support two positions: 1st. That the note, under the circumstances of the case, was negotiable, the property of which,
after the indorsement in blank, passed by delivery as a bill of exchange payable to bearer. 2d. That negotiable paper of this description, is not within the spirit, intent, and meaning, of the attachment law of Pennsylvania; especially when put into circulation and negotiated out of the state.
1st. The note passed by delivery as a bill of exchange, payable
to bearer. Under this general proposition, we derive the title of
the plaintiff immediately from Henry Knox, not through William
Duer: but against the proposition several objections have been
urged. It is said, that in Pennsylvania promissory notes are not
within the law merchant; that they are regulated by the common
law principle, in pu,'suance of which every assignee takes the instrument

HIGH COURT OF ERRoRs AND APPEALS.

51

wument subject to every equitable consideration that affected the 1799.
assignor; that the act of assembly places notes on a footing with
bonds, enabling the indorsee to recover only what shall appear to
have been due at the time of assignment; and that these doctrines
have been exemplified and enfbrced by legal decisions. But the
answers to these suggestions, will satisfactorily show, either
that they are riot founded in fact, or that they are inapplicable on
the present occasion.
Promissory notes in Pennsylvaniaare governed by the statute
of Anne, as far as respects the payee's remedy against the drawer,
in an action upon the notes themselves; and, therefore, they are
within the law merchant. The act of assembly, when it provides
a further remedy for the indorsee, implies and recognises the
law to be so. At common law, a promissory note could not be
declared on; all the declarations on record upon promissory
notes, state the liability as arising under the statute of Anne; and
the distinction in this particular has been repeatedly recognised
by our Courts. The statute of 9 & 10 W. 3. c. 17. placed inland bills of exchange upon a footing with foreign bills; and the
statute of 3 & 4 Anne c. 9. placed promissory notes upon a
footing with inland bills: after an indorsement, therefore, promissory notes are to be regarded as foreign bills of exchange. It is
true, that our act of assembly limits the drawer's responsibilitq
to an indorsee, by the measure of his responsibility to the payee;
but nothing can be more extravagant, or unjust, than the deductions which have been attempted, at different times, from that provision, as recognised in M'Cullough v. Huston. 1 Dall. Rep. 444.
It was once, indeed, introduced as an authority to release-the
friendly indorser of an accommodation note, from all obligation
to pay the indorsee: but the Court declared, that the determination only applied to the case of a drawer's being cheated by the
payee (when, as in the instances of gambling and usurious notesin Enoland) he should. not be made liable to the indorsee. What
analogy, however, can be suggested between MI'Cullough v. Hus.
ton, and the present case? The defendant is not called on to answer the holder of the note further than if the payee was plaintiff; there is no idea that the defendant has been defrauded; the
consideration for which the note was given has not failed; the
defendant has made no payment; he owes the full nominal
amount of the note; and, in short, he is a mere stake-holder.
-In the cases that have been hitherto decided, the dramatis
personce were the drawer, the payee, or indorser, and the indorsee: here a new corps of actors appears, the creditors of an
intervening holder of the note, as plaintiffs in the attachment.
In those cases, there was fraud; in the present case, the contest
is between an innocent holder of the note, and a claimant by legal process. In those cases, if the remedy failed against the
drawer, it might be pursued againstthe indorser; in the present
case, the debtor in the attachment is not an indorper, the person
who
I
VOt. IV.

CASES AFFIRMED OR REVERSED IN THE

1799. who sold to the plaintiff is not an indorser; and, as far as appears
L...-- by the state of the case, we are without remedy, unless this action
succeeds.
The nature of the promissory note in quetion re'mains, then,
to be ascertained on abstract principles, public policy, general
convenience, the reason of the case, and the design of the attachment law. On the face of it, the note appears calculated for
general circulation, unaffected by local circumstances: it is payable at the bank of the United States; and that institution was
not stationary, for its commencement of business only was fixed
at Philadelphia. A demand at the bank of the United Statis,
wherever its business was transacted, when the note became due,
was the only condition that remained to be performed. 2 H. B1.
509. The note took effect and became operative by the delivery
only, which was in New-21orh: IM'Kimm v. Elton.* And there
promissory notes are on footing with bills of exchange. It was
the intent and meaning of the parties that the note should circulate there, and be governdd by the law of that state. Conventio
vincit legent. Reed v. Ingraham. Post. The act of assembly, indeed, cannot refer to notes delivered and put in cir ulation out of
Pennsylvania; and surely, the objection arising under our local
law, ought not to proceed from the plaintiff in the attachment, a
citizen of XNew-Torl, a party to, and bound by, the laws of that
state. The note was originally in the form of a bank post note;
and after the indorsement in blank, it assumed the character of
a common bank note. It has, likewise, all the distinguishing
characteristics of a bill of exchange: it is entititled to three days
grace; the indorser is ansverable to the indorsee, without express
covenant, though the note be forged; and immediate notice must
be given to the indorser, if the note is dishonoured.
2d. But negotiable paper of this description, is not within the
spirit, intent, and meaning of the attachment law of Pennsylvania.
The opposite doctrine would render our act of assembly a perfect snare; and inevitably prevent the extra-territorial negotiation
of any note, or bill of exchange, on which any citizen of Pennsylvania was drawer or acceptor. For, if Duer had purchased the
note one hour, and sold it the next after the attachment was laid,
the rule contended for would equally apply. Such is the absurd and
monstrous inconvenience to which this pretension leads, that nei*JMKIinn v. Elton. This case was decided in the Supreme Court some
years ago. The defendant proposing to give a preference to the plaintiff, in al
arrangement with his creditors, drew a note in the plaintiff's favour, and signed

it; but, doubting afterwards the propriety of the measure, he put the note into
his own desk. The plaintiff heard of this circumstance and applied to the dethndant's wife, in the defendant's absence, for the note; who having a key of
the desk, unlocked it, and delivered the note to the plaintiff. It was adjudged,
that the mere signing of the note, without a delivery by the drawdr to the
payee,

;ave

it no effbct; artd that the plaintiff could not take advantage of a

possession, surreptitiously obtained.

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.

55

ther the person who sells, nor the person who buys, can know the 1799.
injustice that they are concurring to practise: the one has'sold what k
Ile had. no right- to part with, and the other has paid a valuable
consideration for nothing; and, yet, the former shall be innocent,
and no negligence can be imputed to the latter! The lis pendens
has no extra-territorial operation, and cannot he regarded as
implied notice to citizens of other countries.
But the attachment cannot, surely, give a better right to Fish
to claim payment from the drawer, than a sale for value, with
notice to the frawer, though without delivery of the note; or
in the cases already put) a sale and payment, with delivery of
te note, which is afterwards, however, lost or stolen, and negotiated bond fide. By the act of assembly debts may be attached,
and so may money: but suppose a sum of money had been
specifically attached, and the garnishee had afterwards paid it
away, could the money have been followed into the hands of a
bondfide receiver? If goods, indeed, are attached, and afterwards
lost, or stolen, they may be pursued, and if found again, will still
be liable to the attachment: but not so, in the case. of money; a
distinction which exemplifies and establishes the rule on our
part. For, notes payable to bearer are regarded as money;
and the refison applying equally to both Qbjects, the law must be
the same. Nor can an attachment alter the nature and conditions
of a contract; as, in the present instance, the negotiable nature.
. of the instrument, and the condition that it shall pass by delivery. It is the same thing, whether the condition is expressed by
the parties, or implied by law. An attachment of real estate
would not prevent a springing use, or a resulting trust; the
estate, might, therefore, change its owner pending the attachment.
And why not the property of a note, liable, by the nature of the
contract to this contingency, that it shall cease to represent a
debt owing to Duer, and become a debt owing to Ludlow, if
Ludlow is the bearer on the day of payment? Debts, in general,
are not liable to such contingencies and conditions; they are not
negotiable; and, therefore, (thdugh it is only by implication our
lawis extended to them) they may with celtainty be subjects of
attachments.. But even stock-contracts, or bonds, payable to a
man, or his assigns, cannot be affected by an attachment made in
another state,
Does it, then, require a greater latitude of construction, than
is authorised hy precedent, to exempt negotiable paper, circulating abroad, from the meaning and operation of the attachment
law? It is not to controul our Act 6f assembly by the law of Newrork, but to give to our Act a reasonable interpretation. While
paper credit remains in use, it should be regulated by plain and
uniform rules; 1 Dall. Rep. 270. and that the bond fde purchaser
should only be affected by what appears on the face of the instrument, is the characteristic of negotiable-paper. 1 Loft's Gill.
195.

6M
1799.

CAsEs AFFIRMED OR RflVERSED IN THE

195. 2 Dall Rep. 396. The departure from the strict terms of
a law, in a variety of other instances, will authorise a much
greater latitude of construction than the prestnt case requires.
The cases of the sick sailor, who remained in a foundering ship,
of the surgeon who bled a man in the street, and of ecclesiastical
leases, in England; 1 BI. Com. 60. as well as the case of unrecorded mortgages here, 1 Dall. Rep. 434. are strong examples.
But construction on one side or the other forces itself upon the
Court. An indorser is guarantee for the payment of the note to
the holder, if it is not paid by the drawer; a payment to one not
the holder, is not an exception known to the law merchant; and
can a municipal regulation alter the general law, operating on a
negotiation out of the state? A statutory assignment by bankruptcy (which is an assignment of rights of action, and stronger
than an attachment) will not enable the assignees to claim from
the drawer against a bond fide holder. A judgment in an attachment is not conclusive evidence of a debt out of the state,
in which it is rendered' 1 1)all. Rep. 261. and the death of the
defendant, after interlocutoryjudgment, destroys the attachment,
because there is not any party in Court; because executors, or
administrators are not liable to enter special bail; and because
no foreign attachment can issue against executors or administrators. 1 Dall.Rep. 248.'(1)
The attachment law of Pennsylvania is a copy, in some measure, from the original mode established as the custom of London;
and that the currency of bills and notes in London (which even
pass under a bequest of money in a will. 1 Burr. 358. 3 Burr.
1516. 1524, 5. 1530. 1 Bi. Rep. 485. 4 Bac. Abr. 705, 6. 2 Burr.
675. 1225.) should be impaired and endangered in this way, is
so improbable, that the most authoritative precedents are necessary to induce belief. A precedent is, however, cited, but of so
light a texture, 'that it will hardly bear examination: it is cited,
too, against a bond fide holder, who never knew of Duer's interest, "or possession .of the note; who may fill up the blank indorsement as he pleases; 1 BI. Rep. 296. who may deduce his
title immediately from Knox; 2 Burr. 1225. 1216. and who, in
that way, can never be injured by any thing which Duer has
done. The solitary precedent is cited from Oarthew 26. where
it is said, that a bill of exchange is liable to attachment. But
this was not the point of the cause, and ought, therefore, to be
disregarded; 1 -Burr. 526. 3 Burr. 1730. the only point tuniing on the question, whether a prohibition ought to issue. The
debt due, and the debt attached, were both upon bonds, not on
a bill of exchange. Holt. 179. The incidental observations. re(1)The defendant died after final judgment, but before the money actually
I)ald by the garnishee: qztery, the effect of his death, since the attachment
might be dissolved by entering special bail at any time before such payment
This point was stated, but not relied on, by the plaintiff's counsel.
"
lied

HIGH COURT

or

ERRORS AND APPEALS.

61

lied on, did not proceed from the Court, or any member of it; 1799.
and the same case is reported in three other books, of superior
character, without a word of a bill of exchange, even by way of
allusion, from the Court, the counsel, or the reporters. Holt. 179.
1 Shov. 9. Comb. 109. But even this precedent might be explained, consistently with our doctrine, by supposing it meant,
that a bill of exchange might be attached after it was due; for,
if negotiated after it is due, it can only be in a limited degree, liable to all ixceptions as paper not negotiable. 2 Dall.
Rep. 396.

After consideration the unanimous opinion of the COURT was
who, having stated the case,
u
delivered, by the Chief 7tice,
proceeded as follows:
M'KEAN, Chief .ustice. The first inquiry, which it is necessary to pursue, is, where was the note in controversy made, in
Pennsylvania, or in New-2ork? For, whether the act of assembly,
relating to promissory notes, is to be introduced, or excluded,
in forming our judgment, depends upon the answer, that shall
be given to this preliminary question.
It appears, then, that, although the note was signed in Philadelphia, it was not delivered in Pennsylvania; but that the delivery was made by the order, or direction, of Henry Knox, the
payee, to William Duer in the city of Xew-Torl, in pursuance of
a contract, and for a valuable consideration. It is certain, that
the bare signing of a note will not, give it efficacy. It may be
signed with a view to deliver it to the payee, on his complying
with some previous stipulation; so that in case of a refusal, it
would become useless, and might be cancelled by the drawer.
A note is not, therefore, obligatory and valid, until it has been
actually delivered to the party, for whose use it is drawn; and
as it receives its life, existence, and negotiable character, at the
place where it is so delivered, the law of that place must regulate all its subsequent operations. Hence, we consider the pre.
sent note, as having taken effect in New-Torh, as being liable to the
lex loci of that state (whether depending on positive statutes, or
the adoption of the general commercial law) and'as exempt from
the provisions of our act of assembly, by which an indorsee is
liable to all the equity, that the drawer could enforce against the
payee.
The note having been thus paid, or delivered, in New-rerA,
was deemed by the lav of that state to be as negotable as a foreign bill of exchange; and it is the nature of a bill of exch.age,
when indorsed in blank, to pass from hand to hand, by mere delivery, like bank notes payable to bearer. It is .true, that the negotiability of the bill may be restrained by the qualified tirms of
an indorsement; but there must be express words to produce.
such an effect. In the present case, there was no restraint upon
the

CAsEs A rIRmrD oR R-VEItSED IN TIIE

1799. the negotiability of the note; and in a due and fair course of
circulation, it was delivered to Duer, he sold it to a bond ftde
L
purchaser, that purchaser sold it to others, till, at last, it became
the property of the plaintiff. While, however, it was in the
hands of Duer, an attachment issued at the suit of his creditors,
and the drawer of the note was summoned as garnishee.
And here the second great question arises, whether, under
these circumstances, the money due at that time, but not payable till long after, on a negotiable note, could be attached as the
property of Duer, so as to defeat a subsequent purchaser, bond
fide, 'indfor a valuable consideration? In England,I believe, there
would be no hesitation in deciding, that it could not. On the
paper credit of that nation, much of its power and prosperity, (if
not its very existence) will be found to depend; and, therefore,
every thing that can impede, or injure, the circulation of bills
of exchange, promissory notes, and bank notes, is anxiously
guarded against. The situation of this country, however, is not
tht same; so that the legislature of Pennsylvania has not found
it necessary to hold in equal respect the negotiability of promissory notes. When the act of assembly was passed, promissory
notes were little used; they were given for small debts; and they
seldom passed out of the hands of the payee before payment.
The object of the act was, simply, to enable the indorsee to sue
the drawer in his own name; but in giving this benefit, it was
expressly provided, that he should recover no nore, than was
due at the time of the indorsement. This, therefore, lets in the
equitable claims of the drawer against the payee, when he is sued by the indorsee; and even in England,there is no doubt, the
consideration of a note may be inquired into, in an action between
the payee and the drawer.
The present case, however, arises from a commercial transaction in the city of Vew-2orh, where the note was regarded in the
light of a foreign bill of exchange. There is no judgment, or
authoritative dictum, to be found iin any book, that money due
upon such a negotiable instrument, can be attached before it is
payable; and in point of reason, policy, and usage, as well as
upon principles of convenience and equity, we think it would be
dangerous and wrong to introduce and establish a recedent of
the kind. To adjudge that a note, wvhch passes from hand to
hand as cash; on which the holder may institute a suit in his
6wn name; which has all the properties of a bank note payable
to bearer.; which would be embraced by a bequest of money;
and which is actually in circulation in another state; should be
affected in this way, by a foreign attactment, would be, in effect,
to overthrow an essential part of the commercial system, and to
annihilate the negotiable quality of all such instruments.
It has been said, that the purchaser of the note (toties quoties)
was bound to inquire into its validity, by applying to the drawer before he bought it. But I cannot perceive the propriety, nor, indeed,
the

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.
the utility, of imposing such a duty in this, or any similar, case. 1799.
The distance between the place of the drawer's residence, and the %
place of the note's circulation; and the frequency of the transfers
of negotiable notes, payable at long dates; would render such a
course highly inconvenient, if not impracticable; while the information to be derived from it, could only assure the purchaser,
that an attachment had not issued at the very moment of his application; but could not protect him from an attachment which
might issue in less than an hour afterwards, and sooner than his
purchase could be accomplished.
Upon the whole, we are, unanimously, of opinion, that the attachment cannot be sustained; and that the bearer of the note
on the day of payment, is entitled to recover the money from the
drawer. The judgment for the defendant must, therefore, be reversed; and judgment entered for the plaintiff.
SMITH, 7ustice. The opinion of the Court is certainly pnanimous on the points that have been stated; but I wish it to be
remarked, that my concurrence refts entirfly on the particular
circumstances of this case. The delivery in Xew-Cork, which
gave effect to the note, and introduced the law of that state as
our guide, is, exclusively, the ground of my assent.
ADDISON, 7ustice. To me, it would have made no difference,
had the delivery and circulation of the note been entirely in Pennsylvania. It is expressed in commercial form, and was negotiable upon commercial principles. On general grounds, therefore, as well as for the particular reasons that have been assigned, I think the judgment of the Court is right: and I should be
surprised to find any doubt upon the subject in a great commercial city like Philadelphia.

SHiPPEN, .7ustice. It is evident, that on the abstract question,
the Court do not agree; nor is it necessary that they should, as
we are unanimous in the judgment pronounced, upon the grounds
peculiar to this case. If, however, I were called upon to give
an opinion, I should incline to the one expressed by Judge Addison.
. The judgment below reversed; and judgment to be entered
for Daniel Ludlow, the plaintiff in error. (2)
(2) A question arose, whether this Court should enter the judgment forthe
plaintiff in error, or merely remit the record to the Supreme Court, that the
judgment might be entered there? In the present case, a decision was immaterial, as Mr. Bingham, being a mere stake-holder, Was ready, at*once, to
pay the money, on the opinion which had been delivired; but a a precedent it
was thought important, and the Court kept the point under advisement till the
next adjourned session.

