SUPREME COURT 0; PE-NSYLVANrA.

45Q
1806.

Sansom versus Ball.

C

ASE on a policy of insurance, upon the freight of the ship
Richmond, for a voyage, at and from Philadelphiato Batavia, and thence back again. The premium was 20 per cent. " to
" return five per cent. if the ship proceeds only.to Batavia and back
to Philadelphia,and no loss happens;" and the insurance was declared to be "on freight advanced here, and-which, by agree" ment, is valued at 13,500 dollars." The policy, also, contained
the usual clause, that there should be no average loss recovered,
if less than 5 per cent. unless it was general.
On the trial of the cause, it appeared, tjbat the Richmond was
owned by Messrs. Ye.tse and Robert Wfraln; that the plaintiff purchased from the owners, three-eighths of the tonnage of the ship,
for the voyage, at the price of 10,837 dollars 50 cents, which
was paid before the ship sailed; that the Richmondproceededsafely
to Batavia, btt, on her return thence to Philadelphia, she was
captured by aFrenchprivateer, who ordered her to Guadaloupe,and
she was afhprwards re-taken by a British ship of war, who carried
her into Martinique;that upon a libel forsalvage at .Martinique,one
half ofthe full value of the ship and cargo was decreed to the recaptors,and the claimants charged with all costs; and that by agree"nent between the captain and the supercargo, on the one hand,
and there-captors,on the otherone half of the cargo was specifically -delivered to the- latter, and 2750!. fixed- for the salvage on the
ship, which was paid by a draft on the owners at Philadelphia,secured by an hypothecation.
The present suit was brought to recover an average loss; and
the case being submitted for the opinion of the Court, two. questions were discussed: 1st. Whether the subject described in the
policy was an insuiable interest. 2d. Whether, under all the circumstances of the case, the insurers were liable for a -general
average. (1)
1st. The plaintiff's counsel, contending that the interest was
insurable, urged, 1st; That it was a lawful interest. It is the
pa, ment of a sum of money, for the benefit of bringing home a
return cargo, either as owner, or upon freight. There is no general law, no law of America,.or of -Engkind,against the payment
of freight in advance, whatever may be* the law of France; 2
Mfarsh. 644. and there is scarcely a subject of property, for which
(1) Mr. Fitzshn,onr,a merchant and underwriter of great intelligence and

.xperience, proved, at the. trial of the cause, that the intercst, acquired by the

plantiff in the tonnage of the ship, was a well known subject of insurance in
.Philadeplpa.He, also, proved, that ac adjustment of the average loss, on the
preseot niage, bad been made; in which the insurance companies, and-most
of the private underwrite,, had acquiesced. On the effect ol the adjustment,
price
the plaintiffs c;ted P4chk 118. JMars1z ?.

60

CASE's RULED AND ADJUDGED I1 THE

1806. a price is paid and'received, that may not be the subject of insuranc', unless where general policy forbids; as in the case of
seamen's wages. Park. 9. (5 Edit.) lb. 103. Nor, can this be
cnnsidered as a double instirance; for it is a distinct interest; and
different insurances may be effected by different persons, having
different rights, in the same property. 1 Harsh. 282. Park. 103.
Nor is it a loan upon bottomry; for it was not advanced on the
pledge of the ship herself, but for the use of her tonnage; and it
is immzterial, that the valuation in the policy, exceeds the actual
cost; as the plaintiff had a right to cover the premium, charges,
interest, and profit, as well as his advance." 2d. -The interest insured was liable to hazard and loss; and, therefore, it was insurable. If the ship had been totally lost, the plaintiff's use of the
tonnage, for which he had paid, was gone, and .the owner of the
ship could .not be compelletd to refund. 3d. The interest is wdll
described in the policy. It is not a purchase of a share in the vessel;
but of a right to convey goods in her, upon the voyage insuted; and
the transacion does not violate .the registering act,.on the -point
.of ownership, (2 vol. 147. s. 14. Swivft'" Edit.) or evefi, on the suppositiori of its aniotuiting to a sale of a part of the vessel, it only
for:feifs the -Americanprivileges; :it does not affect the insurable
quality of the intcresi acquired. But, again: wheAit is objected,
that n6ne but the owneis of a ship tan recover upon an insurance
of freight; the objection obviously ari~es from confounding the purchase of the right of freight, paid in advance, with freight t6 be
earned and received, at the end of tie voyage. It is clear, that
the owners of the ship could not insure, (and certainly they did
not attempt it). as freight, the tonnage purchased by the plaintiff.
And when the plaintiff proposed the insuiance, the inAtention of
the parties, according to the facts disclosed, without objectiop at
the time, ought to govern the construction of the policy. Park.
439. (4 Edit.)
2d. On the second point, the plaintiff's counsel insisted, that
whether the salvage was considered as freight, or as a charge upon
goods, the interest insured was liable to a general average; and,
if so, the underwriters on the present policy were bound to furmish
an indemnit.
Ship, freight, and cargo, contribute to. general
average. Park. 121. .bbot 215.(Am. Edit.) 1 East, 220. If it is
essential to a general average, that the loss should be voluntarily
incurred, surely the payment of salvage, upon a re-capture, is an
act as voluntary, as throwing goods into the sea, upon the coercion of a tempest. Nay, it is within the express stipulation of the
policy, that the assured shall'labour to recover the property from
any jeopardy, in which it is involved, by a risque insured against.
Park. 140, 1. 123. Ab. 218. .2 Burr. 1213. 1 7iliag. 245. 1 Rob.
Rep. 86. And, if ship, freight, and goods, should all contribute
to a general average, the plaintiff's interest in the use of the ship
could oniy contribute in this way; and, contributing at all, is entitled

4.61

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVAN'IA.

tided to an indemnity. 2 .Afarsh. 460. Park. 124, 5, 6. (4 Edit.)
Ab. 29o, 1.

N

I'--

1st. The defendant's counsel contending thatthe interest was
-not insurable, argued, that it was in the.nature of bottomry; and,
therefore, not insurable, unless specifically; and even then, there
could be no recovery for an. average, but only for a total, loss; that
the idea of freight, is inseparable from a completion of the voyage, and none but the owner of the ship can recover freight; and
that there is no instance of a person, who .is merely liable to pay
freight, being liable to contribute to the pa ment of a general
average; Ab. 179. 2 JBos. and Pu!l. 321. 2 AMarsh. 644. 1 rarsvh..
-93. If the purchase is considered as a purchase of part of the vessel, then no It gitimate contract can be foundied on it, unless the
vessel is registered anew. 2 vol. 147. s. 14. (Laws of U. SSzbft's

Idit.)
2d. On the second point, the defendant's counsel contended,
that the decree of the Court only affected the ship and cargo (not"
the freight) with the payment of salvage; that nothing but a general average can affect freight; and a general average calls or a
voluntary sacrifice of a part, to preserve the rest, of thie property;
whereas the loss on the salvage was compulsory. 1 _7ohns. 406,
410. Ab. 220. Park. 122. 130.
The chief justice, after stating the general facts, delivered the
unanimous opinion of the Court, in the following terms.
TILGHMAN, Chief Yuste. In this case two questi6ns have
been made:
1st. Had the plaintiff an insurable interest?
2d. If it was insurable, was it liable to a general average?
1st. In order to determine whether the plaintiff's interest was
insurable, we must first ascertain the nature of it. It seems to
be a kind of interest, not much known in Europe, though well
known in this city. The plaintiff advanced a sum of money to
the owners of the ship, in consideration of which; they gave him
a right to fill up three-eighths of the tonnage of the ship, for that
voyage, with goods, either his own, or the property of others. It
is called in the policy, " frei4it advanced," an expression well
calculated to shew its meaning. All countries, and even all cities,
have singularities of expression. All new inventions, eitler in
commerce or the arts, give rise to new modes of speech, which,
when once introduced into contracts, are recognised by Courts
of justice, whose duty it is to carry into execution the intention
of the contracting parties. Now, what is there in this interest,
which should exciude it from the benefit of insurance? there is
nothing unilawful in it. It is subject to loss; for, whether the plaintiff used the tonnage fbr the transportation of his own goods,
or of the goods of others, he would lose his money, unless the ship
performed the 'vo: age in safety. Indeed, I think Mr. Ingersoll,in
arguing

1806.

U2

CAsEs

RULED AND ADUDGED vn Tim

1806. arguing for flit, defendant, conceded that the plaintiff's interest
might have been insured, if it bad been properly described; hut
he conceived it to be in the nature of bottomrv. This it certainly
cannot be; there was no loan of money. Messrs. Walns .were
obliged to make no payment to the plaintiff, but the plaintiff was
entitled to make what he could from the tonnage he had purchased.
Whether it was more, or less, Messrs. Malns had nothing to do
with it. The testimony of 'lfr.Fitzsimmons goes far towards
proving, that the plaintiff's interest was well described, and was a
proper object of insurance. In the case of Gregory v. Christie,
should
(Parh. 11.) my Lorid Afan feld thus expresses himself, "1I
-"think thatthe words-Lgoods, specie, and effects," did not extend
"to the plaintiff's interest, if we were only to consider the words
"by'themselves. But here is an express usage, which must go.
"vern our decision. A gr at many captains in the East India
"s ervice swear, that this kind of interest is always insured in
"this way." Now, though there have not been a great many witnesses in this cause, yet there has been. one, very much conversant
in the business of insurance, who stands uncontradicted. Upon
this firsf point, therefore, the insurability of thie plaintiff's interest,
whether it is considered on principle, or on usage, I have. no
doubt but the law is with the plaintiff. -2d. BLt was the plaintiff's interest liable to general average?
General average, or general contribution, is founded on principies of justice and sound policy. It arises, when a sacrifice of part
has been made for the preservation of the residue, or, when money
is.expended, to preserve the whole. Thus, the loss occasioned
by cutting away of masts, or throwing, goods overboard to lighten
the ship, in a storm, or money paid to' redeem .ship and cargo,
which had been capruird, are subjects of general average; ship,
cargo, and freight, have been benefited, and therefore all muAt
contribute. In the present instance, a compromise was made with
the recaptors? Was it for the benefit of all persons concerned in
ship, cargo, and freight? for, if it was, it falls within the rule of
general average. It appears to me that it was for the benefit of all
concerned. 'It prevented a sale of both ship and1 cargo, which must
have injured all concerned. It would certainly have injured the
plaintiff, who had goodson board tof large amount, and he had paid
in advance, for the freight of these goods. Of whatever nature the
plaintiff's interest was, it was liable to salvage. Sir William Scott's
opinion(l) is, that salvage is dub, for ship, cargo, and freight. But
the defendant's counsel object, that general average never arises
but from the volufntarv act of 'man, and here, say they, was no
\'6luntary act; for, salvage was decre.ed by the Court. This argument
is rather too refined. Let'us consider it. It is true, that the agency
and consent of man, must intervene, to prodice a general average;
but this igency and consent,thon'gh in one sense voluntary,are upon
the whole, involuntary. When life is at stake, thi mariner wiLlingly
(1) 3 BLob.. 86.

403

SUPRE ZE COURT OP PENNSYLVANIA.

lingly throws gold and diamonds into the sea. But was he willing 1806.
to encounter the storm, which produced this (lire necessity?
General average always arises fiom actions produced by necessity.
In the case before us, there was a capture, re-capture, and decree
of salvage. The master and supercargo conented, under these
circumstances, to a measure, which produced a general benefit.
They surely exercised as much volition, as if they had thrown
half the cargo over board in a storm. Suppose they had stood still,
and suffered the ship and cargo to be sold, the underwriters would
then have had to answer for the -wholefreight. It is better lbr
them lo be subject to a general contribution.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to recover on this
.olicy, according to his demand.
Lervis, .Rawle, and .7.Sergeant, for the plaintiff.Of'Kean (Attorney-General) and Ingersoll,for the defendant.
Donath et at. versus The Insurance Compaiy of North
.America.

T

HIS cause was argued, in M1arch term last, on the following
case, stated for the opinion of the Court.
Case. (1) The plaintiffs were in advance for money lent, and
goods delivered, to DoA Alvarez Calderon, according to their account stated, (including commissions and premium of insurance)
to the amount of 13,750 dollars;'and addressed to-the defendants
the orders of insurance, dated respectively the 22dof .une and 6th
of 7uly 1799, in these words:
" Philadelpbia,June 22d 1799.
" President and Directors of the
" Insuranc.e Company of Worth America.
"GENTLEMEV,

," Agreeably to your answer, we request you to insure 13,750
"dollars, on sundry effects, shipped on board the schooner Daphne,
"captain Ripley, bound for Iavanna.
, This insurance is declared to be made by us, for and in be"half of Don Alvarez Calderon, king's attorney in the island of
Cuba, on goods, or rather effects, !hey not being merchandize
"intended for trade, but wholly his property, consistinig in cloth'_ ing and wearing apparel, library, a vast quantity of house furni"ture, coaches, &c. amounting together to 18,733 dollars, of
"which we only cover the above sum of 13,7,50 dollars, the same
"being the amount of our advances, inclusive of premium,
"commission, &c. at and from Philadelphiato Havanna,on board
(1) The case was stated win a reference to the various documents, re;ad in
evidence; but it is necessary to incorporate the substance ofthem here, with the
statement.

"the

