SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

April Term 179-3,
The Bank of North-America v'ersus Petfit.

C ASE
against the payee and indorser of a promissory note,
drawn by George Henry, for 1100 dollars, payable in 45
days, and dated the 26th of March 1785. The defence was,
that due notice had not been given of the drawer's non-payment
of the note; and the following evidence was produced pre
and con.
For the pWlantiff, the runner of the bank stated, that he be.
lieved he gave the drawer notice when the note became due, as
it was his custom to do; that it'was also his custom, at the expi.
ration of the three days grace, to give the indorser notice; and,
he conceived, he must have called on the defendant on the even.
ing of the last day of trace; but, if not then, he was very clear
.he called the next day, or the second succeeding day at farthest;
that he thinks he spoke to the defendant's son, and supposes he
mentioned his business; that his reason for thinking he gave notice is, that he has a memorandum of Henry's notes lying over;
and the president of the bank was very particular about them,
and the indorsers; that when he called at the defendant's counting-hotise, he gave verbal notice, that the indorsement was unpaid,
and the person he saw, told him that he would inform the defendant of it; that it was not then a practice to leave written
notice; and, finally, that he was not doubtful, but very clear, that
he gave the notice.

For the defendant, his clerk declared that it was usual to leave
notice of the protest of notes in writing; and that he did not
recollect that either written, or verbal, notice was given in the
present case. The defendant's son declared that he had no recollection of receiving any notice; but, on the contrarv, he remembered%

128
t

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1793. bered, that, upon making an estimate of his father's indorsements
at the bank, the cashier said they amounted to 2,300 dollars; and
this be;ng denied, Henrys note was produced; which was the
first intimation that the son ever had of its existence, or of its
being protested.
It was argued by Tilghman and Lewis, for the plaintif,that
although the cause turned upon a mere matter of fact; and that
fact being established, the decision must be governed by the
principles of the mercantile law, which, generally considered, are
the same throughout the mercantile world; yet, that there are
special usages, arising from local circumstances, or municipal
policy, that must prevail, in modifying the operation of the general law of merchants. Thus, the general law of merchants declares, that the acceptor of a bill of exchange is bound by his
acceptance; but how far he is bound, varies at different places.
Burrow v. Yemino, 2 Strange, 733. So, notice of the protest of a
bill of exchange must be given, upon the principles of the general
law; but there is a different usage, in different places, as to the
strictness of the time, within which the notice must be given.
The statute of Anne, introduced the negotiable character of
promissory notes, and the process of declaring upon them as
instruments. The practice of giving notice, in the case of promissory notes, soon followed in England, though the statute
speaks nothing of the time; but, at first, a great latitude was
allowed; and it is only, step by step, that the present degree of
strictness on the subject, has been there established. In Pennsylvania, however, promissory notes were scarcely to be regarded as a currency before the revolution; ins.omuch that it is
difficult to trace a suit on the records of the Courts, by the indorsee against the indorser. The act of assembly of 1715, which
gave the indorsee an action against the drawer, in his own name,
made no positive provision on the subject of notice; and the
English practice was not adopted under the act. Punctuality,
indeed, in paying such engagements was rare, and, almost, impracticable, from the state of the country. The bank of NorthAmerica began the rule of punctuality; and originated the usage
of notice; and upon that usage, a period of six, seven, or eight,
days has been allowed for giving the notice. What, then, is the
evidence of a demand of payment from the indorser, is a reasonable time, is the only question. The runner of the bank gave
notice of the protest; and this, by the common understanding
of our merchants, amounts to information, that the holder of
the note looks to the indorser for satisfaction. The cases cited
ibr the plaintiff were, 2 Stra. 1175. 1248. Ld. Raym. 744"
1 Dall.252. Robertson v. Vogle. Ibid. Banh v. 2Th'Knight.
It was argued by Ingersoll and Sergeant, for the defendant,
that the holdtr of a dikhonoured note. must conform to the law
merchant.

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

xuerchant, which requires notice to be given to the indorser; as 1793.
even the declaration shows, by the averment that notice was
given: and, they comtended, that the notice in this case (if
given at all) not being given to the defendant on the very next
day, after the expiration of the days of grace; and not being accompanied with an explicit demand for payment; was not a
sufficient notice, according to the law of merchants; which being,
in this respect, founded on general principles of reason and
equity (to prevent the indorser from suffering by the indulgence,
or negligence, of the holder) was as applicable in Pennsylvania,
as in any other country. They cited 1 Wils. 47. 2 Bi. Rep. 747.
Doug. 650. 2 T. Rep. 1 Dal 252. Bull. N. P. 274. 6.
1 Stra. 508.
By the CoVrnT: The defence is want of notice of the protest
of the note in question, within a reasonable time. The law in
England is very stict upon this subject. Before any statute existed there, to render promissory notes negotiable, such notes
were often made; but they were only regarded as evidence of a
debt, and could not, as instruments, be declared upon in an action
at law, till the provision was made in the statutes of W. 3. and
Anne. It is not material, however, to review the history of this
paper medium either here, or in England; sinc6 it is clear, that
-in both countries, at this day, the law requires, that notice must
be given by the holder, to the indorser of a promissory note, with
a demand of payment, in a reasonable time, after the note is dishonoured by the drawer. What constitutes a reasonable time,
was fqrmerly ctnsidered, by the English Courts, in most cases,
as a matter of fact, for the decision of a jury: and since it has
been deemed by those Courts, a matter of law, they lKave held,
that if the parties live in the same town, an allowance of even a
single day to the holder is quite sufficient. But in Pennsylvania
the question of reasonable notice still remains a fact for the jury
to determine. Before the institution of the bank of North Ame.
rica, promissory notes were few; there was no time fixed for
giving notice; and two, or three, months have often elapsed, before it was given. The bank had, however, a right to introduce*
new rules, for transacting business with their customers; and
those rules being understood and enforced, formed a law of the.
contract, binding on both the parties. Indeed, the punctuality, and
other beneficial consequences, flowing from those rules, seeTi to
have given them a more general operation and force;' so'as to
constitute a general usage, and not merely a usage of the bank.
But notwithstanding the necessitji of giving notice exists, on general principles, as weli as upon the usage, its reasonabienes, we
repeat, still depends here upon the ve'rdict of the jury. As soon
as we can, consistently with the state of the couniry, its roads,
and its posts, it will be wise to adopt the English law upon the
subject,
S
VOL. IV.

1,9b
1793.

CAsEs RULED

AND ADJUDGED IN THE

subject, for the sake of certainty and uniformity, in the adminis.
Stration of justice: and, perhaps, (such is the rapid progress of
population and public improvement) the Court may, in future,
incline to adopt it.

Stansbury versus Marks.
ASE. Plea, Non .Assumpsit. The defendant offered to give
infancy in evidence on this plea; to which the plaintiff objected. But
By the COURT- The evidence is clearly admissible. Under
the general issue, however, the jury may decide, whether the
evidence is sufficient to discharge him, or not. The position is
generally true, that an infant can only bind himself for necessaries; yet, in the Court of Chancery, cases occur, in which a
payment would be decreed, contrary to the strict rule of the common law. In this form of action, equity is the principal consideration; and, from necessity, the Courts of law, in Pennsylvania, adopt the principles of the English Courts of Chancery.

J.Conrad versus Conrad et al. Administrators of
G. Conrad.

HIS was an action on the case, brought by 7amnes Conrad
the natural son of George Conrad, against the administrators
of his father, in which a declaration was filed, containing two
counts: 1st. Upon a special agreement, that if the plaintiff would
live with the intestate, and work his plantation for six years, the
intestate would give and convey to him 100 acres of the land.
2d. Upon a quantumnmeruit, for work and service. Pleas, Non
assunpsit, and the statute of limitations.
Upon the trial of the cause, it was proved, that .7acobConrad
having expressed an intention to leave his father's and learn a
trade, the father said to him, with some solicitude, "Stay and
" work the plantation till you are of age, and I will give you a
" hundred acres of it." It also, appeared, that 7acob did remain
with his father, and worked the plantation ably and diligently;
that the father had three legitimate children, two sons and a
daughter, and three illegitimate children, ,acb, and two daughters; that the two legitimate sons worked with Yacob on the
plantation; that the father once intimated an intention of putting
Yacob on footing with his other children; that the plantation consisted of about 260 acres, and was appraised at 750L.; and that
Zacob Conradwas well maintained, clothed, and schooled, while
,- remained with his father.

