SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

December Term 1802.
Jones et al. versus The Insurance Company of NorthAmerica.

on a policy of insurance, dated the 30th of
C OVENANT,
November 1792, upon the freight of the brig, called the Ben-

jamin Frankin, valued at 3000 dollars, for a voyage "at and fi-om
"Bourdeaux to a port in the United States," against "the seas,
" &c. arrests, restraints, detainments of all kings, &c.e in the
usual terms of the printed policies. The premium was six per
cent.; and, it was declared, "that this insurance is made on the
" freight of the above brig, valued at the sum insured, for two
" thirds thereof, &c."
On the evidence, it appeared, that the brig sailed from Bourdeax on the 17th day of November 1792, bound for Philadephia;
but, on the 20th of November, before she had reached the mouth
of the Garonne, she was embargoed by the French government.
The embargo continued until the 10th of 7anuary 1793; when
the brig'prosecuted her voyage; arrived at PIiladelphiaon the
5th of Miarch; and there, on delivery of the cargo, the assured
received the amount of the freight, originally stipulated to be
paid, from the respective shippers.
During th6 embargo, however, an expense ws incurred, for
the seamen's wages and provisions, and extra-pilotage, amounting to 875 dollars and 13 cents, for two thirds of which (according to the proportion of freight insured) the plaintiffs claimed to
be indemnified, by the underwriters upon the present policy: and
the validity of this claim, was the only matter in controversy,
upon the trial of the cause.
For the plaintifr,it was contended, that the expenses incurred
during the embargo, were a direct consequence of the embargo,
operating as a partial loss upon the freight; that, therefore, the
9um1

'247

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

-sum ought to be paid, or reimbursed, by the defendants,, so far 1802.
as the interest of the plaintiffs extended; that the expenses of the
embargo, might either be estimated by the jury, upon a consideration of the time, and the burthen of the vessel; or from the
actual disbursement (which the counsel for the defendants agreed
and admitted) and that the premium, being paid for an insurance against the peril of an embargo, applied to a partial, as well
as to a total, loss of the frieght. In the course of the plaintiffs' argument, the following books were cited: PMill. on Ins. 339. Park,
121. 124. Abb. 274, 5. 282, 3, 4, 5, 6. 2 Marsh. 620. 628. 2 T.
Rep. 414. 1 Val. Com. 168, 169, 170. 1 Emerig. 539. Park, 53.
1 T. Rep. 127. 129. 132. 4 T. Rep. 208. 210, 211. 6 T. Rep.
413. 419. 422, 423. 425. Park, 127. 1 Afqg-. 250.254. 7 2. Rep.
1 Bous. & Pull. 203. Doug. 268.
421. Park, 78. 2 East, 544.
696.
586. 1 East, 228. 2 Burr.

For the defendants, it was insisted, that on this policy upon
freight, specifically, the expenses of seamen's wages, &c. during
the embargo, were not recoverable; for, the brig, coming to her
port of delivery in safety, had earned, and actually had received,
her whole freigJit. Besides, it was contended, that such an allowance would be contrary to an established and uniform usage,
among merchants and underwriters; and it was attempted to prove
by the testimony of witnesses, and the certificates of insurance
brokers (admitted by consent) that such an.usage existed. The
attempt failed, however, on the investigation; and the verdict of
the jury gave a negative to the usage. In the course of the argument for the defendants, the following books were cited. 1 T.
Rep. 127. Park, 59. 2 Marsh. 628. 4 T. Rep. 210. Abb. 221, 2,
3. 2 Marsh. 570. 625, 6.628. 1 Ernerig.539. Pothier, " Charter
-arty." 35. Park, 116. Abb. 228, 9. 2 11arsh. 467. Park, 124.
Wesk. 252, 3.499. 135. 244. Beawes. L. M. 137. 4 T. Rep. 208.
1 mag.168, 61 170.
The CHIEF JUsTc E delivered the unanimous opinion of the
Court (all the Judges being present) in the charge to the jury.
SHIPPEN, Chiefyustice. There is no direct judicial authority
in the books, upon the case now before the Court. The easev
must, therefore, be decided either upon principle, or upon usage.
The present policy isan insurance upon freight, against the
peril o n emb~irgo, as well as against the other enumerated
perils. 3e expense for seamen's wages and provisions, claimed
upon the policy, was an imamediate consequence of the embargo
atBourdeaux. That expense, it has been often decided,does notf di
upon the underwriters of the ship, or the cargo; but, it is remarkable, that Judge BLI.Lr. (a Judge of uncommon understanding
and precision) when, concurring in that opinion, emphatically
adds, "the freihrht must bear it:" and. if the freight must bea
3T

24b
1802.
t

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED INT THE

it, the implication is strong, that the policy upon freight, must
be the appropriate. instrument of indemnity.
Considering the point, .however, abstractedly, upon principle, it
is naturally a"ked, why the law should admit, upon every other
subject of insurance, a recovery against the underwriters, for
a partial, as well as for a total, loss; and exclude such a recovery,
in the instance of freight? Freight is exposed to a partial diminution of its value, as well as the ship, or the cargo; and, equally with those, contributes to the payment of a general average,
arising from a loss, in its nature partial. The assured on freight,
too, may abandon to the underwriters, in th( same cases of a
loss, not actually, but constructively, total, in which the abandonment is permitted to the assured upon the ship, or cargo. Where,
then, is the ground of descrimination, upon the present question?
Though the assured receive, nominally, the amount of the
freight, from the shippers, they receive, in fact, so much less of
the valued freight, than they would have received, if there had
been no embargo, as is the amount of the expense, which the
embargo occasions. The injury is done exclusively to the freight;
and if the detention were long, it might, in some cases, amount
to the whole freight. Now, every insurance is meant to be an
indemnity; but refuse to pay the assured upon freight, the extracharge, a charge not contemplated in the ordinary course of the
voyage, which falls upon freight, in consequence of an embargo
(a risque insured against) and how can the insurance be called
an indemnity? In short, though the case has not hitherto been
expressly decided; and though we have not had much time for
deliberation; yet, we think, that as far as the opinion of the
judges of England can be ascertained, by a fair inference, from
the expressions of the books; and, we are confident, by a fair
application of the principle of insurance; the plaintiffs are entithL4I
to a verdict, unless there is a settled, uniform, usage.of conimerce, to the contrary.
The existence of such a usage was strongly stated, in the
opening of the defence; and we expected to receive light and
satisfaction from the evidence upon the subject: for, the usages
of any trade; but, above all, the usages of trade and commerce,
in giving a practical construction to policies of insurance; are of
so high a consideration, that they are deemed to be a part of the
express and written contract, whenever they are proved with sufficient certainty. Nor is a usage of trade, to be scanned by the
strict rules, for the allowance of a common law custom. If it exists;
if it is known and uniform; and if it is not, in itself, unlawful;
it ought to prevail in the decision of a commercial controversy.
But, we confess, that we have been disappointed in our own
general expectations; though we leave it to the july (whose exclusive province it is).to decide upon the proof of the usage, in
ihe present case. It appears, that the question has seldom occurred

SUPRF1IE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

249

curred among the merchants and underwriters of Pi'iladelphia; 1802,
and, in the few instances, in which it has occurred, the demand
has been as often allowed, as it was rejected. Still, however,
we repeat, the jury have a right to pronounce their own sense
of the evidence. If they think, a commercial usage upon the
subject has been proved, in opposition to the claim of the plaintiffs, their verdict must be for the defendants. But, in the absence of any commercial usage, the weight of authority and principle, seems to call for a contrary decision.
Verdict for the plaintiffs.
,Dallas, for the plaintiffs.
.hzgersoll, E. Tilghman, and Mioylan, for the defendants.

The same Cause.
THE

charge was deliV'ered on Friday evening, the 17th of
December, and the Court immediately adjourned. On the
next morning, when the jury were at the bar, ready to deliver a
verdict, the defendant's counsel, for the first time, tendered exceptions to the charge of the Court. The counsel for the plaintiff insisted, that the exceptions were tendered too late; and the
Court kept the subject under advisement, that the parties.might
examine the precedents.
At a subsequent day, the plaintiffs' counsel, admitted that there
was a variance in the precedents; and that the statute of W-est.
2. 13 Ed. 1..(which gives the bill of exceptions) is silent on.the
point. But he contended, that as all the books of practice declare, that the exception must be taken at the trial; and that the
bill itself must be tendered before the verdict; the notice of the
exception must be taken, instanter,when the exceptionable. matter occurs, though the form may be afterwards drafted. B!ll. X.
P. 315. 319. Tidd. 312. 314, 315. 317. 1 Salk. 288. 2 B!. Apy/.
929. Cowp. 494. 1 B. Rep. 556. 11 Mod. 175, 6. 8 XM-it 220, 1.
2 H. B!. 200. 8. 2 T. Rep. 54. 3 Burr. 1692. 1 B/.Conz. 556, 7.
Lilly's Ent. 249, 250. 275. 1 Bots. & Pull. 32. Cro. C. 341.
Doug. 12-.
The opposite counsel, referring to the same precedents, rel.ed
upon the the form in Bull. N. . and insisted, that a bill of exceptions to the charge, might be tendered at any time before thv
verdict.
By the COURT: On a consideration of the authforities cited,
anti of our own practice, we do not think, that the dc'fendants
were too late in tendering their exceptions. The bill, therefore,
ma" be reduced to form, and will be allowcd. Even if we had
doubte
'Voi.. IV.
2 K'

250
s

CASES RULED AND ADJTYDGED IN TUt

1802. doubted on this point, we should have been inclined to afford an
opportunity, for the revision of our opinion on the principal
question; however satisfied we are, in our 'own minds, that it is
correct in principle and law. (1)

C

'Cochran et al. verus Cummings.

ASE, for goods sold and delivered. There was a special defenco, that the defendant had sold, and conveyed to the
plaintiffs, a quantity of land in the county of -Aorthumberland,in
sa:isfhction of their demand; and the deed of conveyance, dated
in Yuzme 1799, was produced. But the plaintiffs insisted, 1st. That
they took the conveyance only as a collateral security: and, 2dly.
That they were imposed upon by the defendant, as to the quality of the land.
On the first point, the evidence was contradictory; and the
left it, implicitly, to be Aecided by the jury.

COURT

On the second point, it was proved, that the defendant had
represented the land as very valuable; saying, that it was such
as would sell, in two or three years, for a price, -from two to six
dollars an acre: but, in fact, the land was a part of a mountain,
commonly called "11ra ch ' s Second Mountaiz;" so rude, that it
could not be cultivated; and 'so steep, that it was inaccessible,
even to take off the wood, without incalculable expense and labour. In the charge of the COURT, on this'point, it was said,
By SHIPPEN, Chief 'rustice: Wherever there is a gross misrepresentation of facts, relating to the subjeci of a contract, the
contract is fraudulent and void. If, therefore, the jury shall be
of opinion, that sucha misrepresentation was made, in the present
instance; they should consider the conveyance as no payment,
although the plaintiffs agreed, under the deception, to accept it
in satisf-ction; and the verdict must be for damages to the whole
amount of the demand.
Verdict, accordingly, for the plaintiffs' whole demand.
Ingersoll, and Heady, for the plaintiffs.
J1. Levy, and Porter, for the defendant.
(1) In the case of Kingston v. Girard, the Court declared, that, after long
and mature consideration, they Acre pei rectly satisfied with their decision in
.-,'res et al. v. The I:;uuranre rompanr of Xrirth Anerica. The case is still dcpenlding in the Hzgh Court of Errofts and Appeals, upon .the bill of exceptions.
It has been once argulcd thert; but a second argument has become neces.
-ary, in consequlwnce of se:erd changea on the bench.

Fitzgerald

