!2

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800. such danger exists, as would operate on the mind of a man of
Sreasonable firmness.
Verdict, accordingly, for the plaintiff.
Woods, for the plaintiff.
Ross, for the defendant.
Pollock versus Hall.

Same versus Same.

T HESE
causes were referred, on the 22d of january 1800,
by agreement of the parties, and several meetings were
held by the referees, at which the parties exhibited their respective proofs, and were heard by themselves or their agents. The
plaintiff conceiving, however, that he had more evidence, which
might be produced at a future period, or conjecturing, that the
referees were unfavourable to his claims, ordered the actions to
be discontinued, on the 21st of April 1800, and gave notice of
the discontinuance to the defendant. But the referees proceeded to decide upon the matters referred; and, on the 10th of May
1800, filed a report, finding for the defendant the sum of 2,300
dollars. To this report exceptions were exhibited, alleging,
among other objections to a confirmation, that the actions-were
discontinued. It became, therefore, a leading question, whether,
under the circumstances stated, the plaintiff had a right to discontinue?
Dallas argued in the affirmative: 1st. That a plaintiff has a
right to discontinue his action, at any time before the merits are
judicially decided. It is true, that the English authorities say it
must be done by leave of the Court; but before, or after, decla.
ration filed; after demurrer joined and-entered; after verdict on
a writ of inquiry; and even after a special verdict; the leave of
the Court is granted as matter of course. Sherd. Pr. 534, 5.
Barn. 170. 6 T. Rep. 616. Cro. Y. 35. 1 Salh. 178. Gilb. 272.
7 T. Rep. 6. Barn. 169. Carth. 87. 2d. That the case of a trial
by jury, and the cahe of a reference, do not, in this respect, differ. The act of assembly places a report of referees on the same
footing as a verdict; and does not affect, in any manner, the
power of the plaintiff over his suit. 3d. That the practice of Pennsylvania, both on general principles, and under the statute, has
been uniform, in favour of the plaintiff's right. A discontinuance, indeed, no more requires the act of the Court, than a non
pros, when the plaintiff prevents a verdict, though he could not
prevent a trial. The records of the Court will establish the right
:of discontinuance, before and after issue joined, by the mere act
of' the plaintiff: Lloyd's Lessee v. Taylor. Sept. T. 1764. Plym's
Lessee

223

SUPREXE COURT OT PENNSYLVANIA*

Lessee v. Skillenbergen. Sept. T. 1765. Chew v. Yones; Sept. T. 1800.
1767. Kerston v. reager. Sept. T. 1766. Neave v. Forbes. Sept.
T. 1771. So after reference. Davis v. Porteer. Sept. T. 1798.
Foulk's Lessee v. Rennicks. Sept. T. 1767. So after judgment,
plaintiff may open the judgment, and discontinue. Pringle v.
Vaughan. Dec. T. 1797. So after special verdict. Leech's Lessee
v. Armitage. Sept. T. 1773. (1) So even after a report of referees actually filed. Sterret v. Chambers et al. Sept. T. 1757. (2)
TV. Tilghman and Morgan argued against the right to discontinue. 1st. That, on general practice, there could be no discontinuance, without leave of the Court, which would only be grant.
ed on payment of costs. 2d. That after a jury was sworn, the
plaintiff could not discontinue, though he might suffer a non pros,
which had consequences differing from those of a discontinuance.
.3d. That the statute reference was of a peculiar character; which
implied the agreement of the parties to receive the report of the
referees; and which, by the operation of a set-off, frequently converted the defendant into the real plaintiff, with the remedy of a
scire facias. In the course of the argument they cited Styles, 198,
199. Cas. Temp. Hard. 200 Gilb. C. . 219. Crom. Pr. 119.
Carth. 87. 2 BI. Rep. 815. 1 Dal. Rep. 430. 143. 355. 514.
By the COURT: The case of Sterret v. Chambers et al.induced
us to pause, before we decided- the point now submitted to our
consideration. It does not appear, however, that the right to discontinue was at all contested in that case; and the other cases,
cited from our records, do not ihnport any judicial decision, that
would be binding upon us, as authority, on the present occasion.
In this situation, we think we are at liberty to deny the right
for which the plaintiff contends; and that the policy of the legis-

. (1) The special verdict was found on the 21st of pril 1775; and 6n the 22d
of April, "the plaintiff by Mr. Reed his counsel, discontinues the action."
(2) The following is the docket entry in this case
2?to.

September 1757..
Yames Sterret

v.

At a Court of Nii T.riu:, held

/ at carlisle,"the 18th day of Maj

yame Ciambers, NathanielSmith,

and Elizabeth his wife, Randle

1768. By order of C6urt and con-

sent of parties, the matters in'va-"

Ce, Chambers. Wiliam Chamnber:, ('ance between them are referred
.Tal.
ean Chamber,, .MarpChambers, tothe finaldetermination ofnamer
("al.*
yohn Chambers, 'and Margaret Galbraitlt ohnByer:, yamesMaxChambers.
J well, fohathan Rogge, and yohn

Montgomery, or any three of them,
vwho are to make report to the Supreme Co6ut in next September. Rules that
the yeferees proceed ex parte on twel'e days notice.
21st September.1T168. Report of referees returned into the office, finding
that the plaintiff hath no cause of action against the defendants.
24th Septminer 1768. Before the sitting of the Court, plaintiffcame into the
office, and discontinued his action.

hature,

22

CAszs

RuLED AND ADjUDoD ix Tr

1800. lature, as well as the principles of justice, will sanction the deniL
al. The act of assembly sought to compose strifes, to shorten
litigation, by assigning an amicable tribunal, to which the parties
might voluntarily resort: and when both have agreed to resort
to that tribunal, it would be inconsistent with the general nature
of an agreement, to permit one of them alone to withdraw from
its jurisdiction. Feuds would be inflamed, instead of being allayed; and suits multiplied, instead of being diminished, by such
a construction of the law. There may be cases, however,•in which
a plaintiff alleging surprise, or mistake, would be allowed by the
Court to discontinue his suit: but after an agreement to refer. .
disclosure and hearing before, the referees, and an opinion expressed, or intimated, by them, upon the merits, a discontinuance
cannot be regarded as a matter of right, and would only be permitted upon very cogent feasons, such, perhaps, as would invalidate the report itself. In th, present case, we are of opinion,
that the plaintiff had not a right to discontinue the suits; and
that no sufficient reason appears, for- allowing a discontinuance "
upon the authority.of the Court.
On the discussion of other exceptions to the report (one of
which was, that a single report was made, though two suits were
referred) it was agreed to consolidate the actions, and to refer
the disputed points again to the same referees.

Mather versus Pratt et a,

T

HIS was an action brought by the plaintiff, as indorsee and.
holder of several promissory notes, drawn by Dorey and
Bayhir, in favour of Yoseph ilussi, .against the defendants, to
whom Dorey and Bdyhir had assigned all their estate, in trdst
for the payment, pro rata, of such of their creditors, as should,
within a certain period, execute a general release; and the dividend of the non-assenting creditors was to be paid to them.
The plaintiff had not executed the release; and, it was objected,
that he could not sue the trustees, even for a dividend, in his
own name, without performing the condition precedent.
The COURT were unanimously, and clearly,- of this opinion;
and the plaintiff suffered a .non-.suit. (1)
.HM Levy, for the plaintiff.
Dallas, for the defendant.
(1) After this non-suit, the plaintiff issued a foreign attachment against

Dnrey and Bayhir, and attached the dividend in the hands of th defendants;
which was, eventually, recovered.

