54

CA.sEs RULED

AND

ADJUDGED IN THE

2d. In answering the second general inquiry (to what does the
1800.
k
true meaning of the 33d section refer?) it is proper more particularly to observe, that the 19th section clearly provides for the
case of a transportation by land carriage; because it speaks of a
transportation "Iacross a state," which (as no canal is established) must be by land. If by land, it cannot involve the agency of
a ship, or vessel; and as the proviso of the 03d section refers to
the forfeiture of a ship, or vessel, and not of a waggon, or stage,
as it does not describe goods, generally, but a lading, or cargo,
on bohrd, it is utterly inapplicable to a case of internal land carriage; and must be considered as referring only to cases of water
transportation; or, in other words, to the coasting trade.
On the 15th of August, the Judges briefly delivered their opinions, seriatim, concurring in the following result.
By the COURT: The case stated comes clearly within the
19th section of the act of congress, for enrolling and licensing
vessels to be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries. The
provisions of the section are salutary, and were made to guard
against frauds upon the revenue, in the transportation of goods,
of foreign growth, or manufacture, across the several states.
Public policy, national purposes, and the regular operations of
government, require, that the revenue system should be faithfully observed, and strictly executed. It is obvious that th6 claimant, is an offender within the purview of the 19th section. To
purge the offence, he relies upon the 33d section of the same act.
But it is too plain for argument, that ihis section cannot, by -.ay
fair and rational construction, be made to refer to the 19th section.
It is inapplicable, because the objects are entirely different.
Judgment affirmed.

Talbot versus The Ship Amelia, Seeman, Claimant.

ERROR

from the Circuit Court of New 2"ork. It appeared on
the record, that Capt.-Talbot,of the frigate Constitution,having re-captured the Anzelia, "an armed Hamburgh vessel, which
had been captured by 6 French national corvette, and ordered to
St. 17o'ngo, for adjudication, brought her into the 1ort of Newrork. A libel was thereupon filed in the District Court by the
re-captor, setting forth the facts, and praying that the vessel and
cargo might be condemned as prize; or that such other decreemight be pronounced as the Court should deem just and proper.
A claim was filed by I. F. Seenan, for Chapeau Rouge &
Co. of Hdmburgh, the owners, insisting that the property had
not been changed by the capture, and praying restitution with
damages and costs. The District Yudge, HOBART, decreed
one-half of the gross amount of sales of ship and cargo,
without

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES..

.'Tithout deduction, (a sale having been made by consent) to be 180D.
paid to the re-captors, in the proportions directed by the act of congress for the government of the navy; and the other half, deducting all costs and charges, to be paid to the clainlants. The
cause iias brought by appeal before the Circuit Court, WASHXNGTON, yusticL, presiding, who reversed the decree of the .District Court, so far as it 6rdered payment of one half of the gross
sales to the re-captors, "considering that as the nation to which
"the owners of the said ship and cargo belong, is in amity with
"the French republic, the ship and cargo could not, consistently
"with the laws of nations, he condemned by ihe French as a
"lawful prize; and that, therefore, no service was rendered by
"the Constitution, or by the commandef, officers, or crew there.
"of, by the re-capture aforesaid;" and affirmed-the rest of the
decree. On the decree of the Circuit Court the present writ of
error was instituted; and the following statement of facts made
a part of the record by consent.
" The following case is agreed upon by the parties, to be an"nexed to the writ of error in this cause, viz.
1 The ship Amelia sailed from Calcutta, in Bengal, in the
"month of April 1799, loaded with a cargo of the produce and
"manufactory of that country, consisting of cotton, sugars, and
"dry goods, in bales, and was bound to Hamburgh.
" On'the sixth of S"eptember in the same year the same was
"captured, whilst in the pursuit of her.said voyage, by the French
"national corvette La Diligeite, L. I. Dubois, commander, who
"took out her Zaptain and'part of her crew, together with most
,rof her papers, and placed a prize master and Frenchsailors on
board 6f her, ordering the prize master to conduct her to St.
"Dom Mn o, to be judged according to the laws of war. On the
"fifteen
of the same month of September, the Unitcd States
"ship of war, the Constitution, commanded by Silas Talbot,
"Esquire, the libellant, fell in with, and re-captured,.the Amelia,
she being thin in full possession of the French, and pursuing
"her course for St. Domingo, according to the orders received
"from the captain of tlhe French corvette.
" At the time of the re-capture, the Amelia had eight iron
" cannon mounted, and eight wooden guns, with which she had
"left Calcutta, as before stated.
"c From such of. the ship's papers as were found on board, and
"the testimdny in the cause, the ship Amelia, and her cargo,
"appear to have been the property of Chapetn Rouge, a citi"zen of Ramburgh, residing, and carrying on cdmmerce, in
"that place. It is conceded that the republic of Franceand the
"city of Hamurgh are not in a state 9f hostility to each other,
"ana that Hamburgh is to be considered as neutral betveen the
" present belligereit powers.
"tThe

36
1800.
kr- . 1

CASS RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

"The Amelia and her cargo, having been sent by captain Talbot to New-2orl, were there libelled in the District Court, and
"such proceedings were thereupon had in that Court, and the
" Circuit Court for that district, as may appear by the writ of
"error and return.
" Alexander Hamilton, of counsel for plaintiff in error.
"'B. Livingston, of counsel for defend,ant in error."
The cause was argued on the 11th, 12th, and 13th of August
1800, by Ingersoll and Lewis, for the plaintiff in error; and bV
2A Levy and Dallas, for the defendant in error. The general
points of the discussion were these:
1st. Whether the Amelia could be considered, at the time of
the re-capture, as a French armed vessel, within the meaning of
the act of congress, which authorises the seizure of Frencharmed vessels? 4 vol p,
2d. Whether captain Talbot was authorised to make a re-capture, the Amelia belonging to d power, equally in amity with the
United States, and with fraiice?
3d. Whether, on positive statute, or general principles, a salvage was due to the re-captors, for rescuing .he Amelia from the
French?
On the 18th of August, PATERSON, ,ustice, stated, that it was
the wish of the COURT to postpone the cause for further argument, before a fuller bench. It was, accordingly, argued again at
Washington, in August term 1801, by Ingervoll and Bayard (of
Delaware) for the plaintiff in error; and by M. Levy, 7. T. Xason (of Maryland) and Dallas for the defendant in error. And
MARSHALL, Chief justice, delivered the judgment of the Court;
"that the decree of the Circuit Court was correct, in reversing
"the decree of the District Court, but not cbrrect in decreeing
c the restoration of the Amella, without paying salvage. This
c Court, therefore, is of opinion, that the decree, so far as the
" restoration of the Amelia without salvage is ordered, ought to
" be reversed: and that the Amelia and her cargo ought to be
" restored to the claimant, on paying for salvage one.sixth part
" of the net value, after deducting therefrom the charges, which
" have been incurred." (1)
(1) A full report of the arguments, on the first hearing of this cause, was
prepared; but they are found so ably incoriorited with the argum.ents on th 9
second hbafing, in Mr. Cranch't Reports, that it has been thought unnecessary
to plablish it in this voIumne 1 Cranch. Rep. L1

]as,

