CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA

DISTRICT.

October Term 1800.
Present PATrRsoN, Associate Judge of the Supreme Court.
PETERs, District Judge.

Hollingsworth 'versus Fry.
N equity. The bill, after setting forth a variety of transactions
between the parties, relative to a tract of land, mills, and mill'
race, in Dauphin county, states, that on the trial of a writ of
partition for the premises, they consented to withdraw a juror,
and entered into the following agreement, dated the 19th Qf
November 1790:
" It is mutually agreed, that judgment shall be entered for the
defendant on the day in bank, on the 3d of 7anzary next, un" less the said plaintiff, or Robert Ralston, his assignee, shall
previous thereto, bN such good and unexceptionable securities,
"in such sum, and in such manner, as shall be approved of by the
"honourable Judges of this Court, engage for, and secure, the
" payment of one moiety of all monies, which the defendant
'hath advanced, or expended, or shall appear to be reasonably
" entitled to, for, or by reason of, his improvement of the lands
' in question, or for any matter relative thereto, or of any other
"lands held in common, or jointly, between the said parties,
" within six months from the said 3d day of 7anuary next. But,
" in case such unexceptionable security shall be given, and a
c question shall :,rise as to the quantum of the-monies, to which
" the defendant shallbe enthld, then 7ohn Kean, Joshuan Elder,
atid John C'ar.son, gentlunen, or any two of th.'in, shall deter" mine the said sum. on full hearing of the said pairtics, their
witnesses, and proofs. And in case'of a full conformity there" to
2Y
Vo.. IV.

346
1800.

CASES RULED AND ADJuDGED IN THE
to, and the money being fully paid and discharged as afore4 said, within the said period of six months, and not otherwise,
"that then judgment shall be entered in this action, not only for
" the lands in the declaration mentioned, but of all lands and
" mills held jointly, or in common between them the said par" ties. by virtue of any article between them, or between them
" and Yohn Fisher,made. But if the monies so due shall notbe
It paid and discharged within tne said period, the defendant shall
"hold the said lands free and discharged -from the claims of the
c"said plhintiff, and all persons claiming under him; and judg"ment shall in such case be entered for him in this action."
'.

It, also, appeared from the pleadings and exhibits that the
bond, required by the agreement, was duly executed on the part
of the plaintiff; that the referees undertook the business of the
reference; and that on the 13th of April 1791, the following report was filed:
. " We the referees, &c. report that, after hearing the-parties,
" their allegations, and witnesses, and investigating their accounts
" and vouchers, we are of opinion, that GeorgeI-y is reasonably
" endtWl to the sum of 36461. 6s. .d. specie; that being the one
"nkiety, or half part, of his expenditures on the lands, mills, and
"their appurtenances, in question, after giving 7ohn Hollings"worth credit for the money'by him expended on the same
lanis.' "
It; also, appeared, that the plaintiff filed a number of exceptions, which the Supreme Court, after argument, over-ruled on
the 2d of Yulq 1791, and gave judgment on the report; and that,
on the 26th of September 1796, the complainant sent his son, to
tender to the defendant, the amount of the report, in his favour;
Which the defendant refused'to accept.
Upon these general premises, the bill proceeded to complain,
that the defendant had appeared in the Supreme Court, by his
counsel, on the 2d of July 1791, alleging the exceptions to the
report to be untrue, whereas the complainant avers that they were
true; that although notice had been given to produce books and
accounts, none were produced-on the hearing in 'Court; that the
conduct of the referees was improper in various particulars;
that the books, accounts, and statements, laid by the defendant
before the referees, were untrue abd fraudulent; that the defendant suppressed several material documents, which he alone possessed; and that the valie of a moiety of the property in dispute
is at least 10,0001.
The bill concluded with a prayer for a perpetual injunction,
ag:.inst all proceedings on the judgment; ibr a discovery and
account; for a partition of the premises; and for general relief.

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

341

To this bill, the defendant filed a plea and answer: Ist. Plea 1800.
in bar, a former bill in equity, for the same cause, filed by the
complainant on the 24th of April 1792; demurrer to the bill, and
joinder in demurrer; and a decree, in April term 1796, pronouncing the demurrer to be sufficient, and dismissing the hiil;
which decree remains unreversed and in full fbrce. 2d. Plea in
bar, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,(a 'oinpetent tribunal) upon the agreement, reference, and report, which
judgment remains still in fbrce; with an averment that the complainant did not, 'vithin six months after making, or filing. ie
report, nor after the exceptions were over-ruled (which exceptions contained all the matter alleged in the bill) and the judg.
ment rendered, pay, or offer to pay, to the defendant, the said
sum of 36461; 6s. 21d, or any part thereof. 3d. Answer, That the
judgment was fairly obtained; that the defendant did not submit to the referees any books, accounts, or statements, that were
untrue, or fraudulent, nor suppress any material documents; that
on the 26th of September 1796, the complainant's son came to
him with a bank bill; but never before that time; and that the
defendant had been exposed to all intermediate expenses and
casualties, &c.
A general replication was filed; and, after argument, the following opinion a's delivered, judge PETERS, declining to take a
part in the decision:
PATERSON, Justice. The great rule of interpretation, with respect to deeds and contracts, is to put such a construction upon
them as will effectuate the intention of the parties, if such intention be consistent with the principles of law. In the presLnt case.
there is no difficulty in coining at the intention, as it is cl'!arlv
mid fbrcibly expressed in the agreement, and is capable of receiving one construction only. The time of payment is m.'ude a
substantial, and not a mere formal, circumstance; it enters into
the essence of the contract; and, therefore, must be observed.
The Court cannot decree against the legal and express stipulation of the parties themselves. The situation of the parties, the
nature of the property, and the speculative spirit of the projvct.
were powerful inducc,nents for drawing up the agreement, in the
plainest and strongest terms, so as to leave no doubt as to the intention, and to rendur the time of performance a cardinal point.
Again, if the agreement would admit of another construction,
the cohiplainant, under the circumstances of the case," cois too
late to avail himself of it. The door of equity cannot rcii::t:n
open for ever. The complainant (lid not make a tender of"the
money, till a lapse of five years after the termination of the time
limited by the contrict. So far was he from using legal dil;gt nece,
that he has been guilty of gross delay. In cases ol the present
kind, equity will not suffer a party to lie by tul the event oi the
experiment

348

CASES RULED AND ADJUDG :D IN THE

1800. experiment shall enable him to make his election with certainty
L
of profit one way, and *ithout loss any way. This mode of procedure is unfair; contrary to natural justice, and in exclusion of
inutu:ditV.
There is a sfrange mixture of legal and equitable powers, in
the .Courts of law of -this state. This arises from the want of a
distinct forum to exercise chancery jurisdiction; and, therefore,
the common law Courts equitise'as far as possible. Whether, if
relief be proper,.the Supremr Court of this state could bave extended it to the complainant, it is unnecessary to determine.
Thus much, however, might .and ought to have be'n done, on
the part of the complainant; he ought, when notice was given for
him to show cause why judgment should not be entered, to have
laid the equity of the case before the judges of that Court, who,
if they thought proper, might have deferred the entering of judgment, or ordered it to be entered on terms, to wit,'to be vacated
on payment of the awarded sum, by a limited period. But tiie
complainant, although he had previous notice, did not avail himself pf an appeal to the discretion of the Court; but suffered
judgment to pass against him, without making any objection.
There being no equity in the complainant's case, his bill must
be dismissed, with costs.

Thurston versus Koch.

T

HIS cause came before the Court on the following case,
. stated bv the counsel, Condy, for the plaintiff, and Ingersoll,
for the defendant.
CL"On the 13th of October 1196, William L Vredenburgh, of the
"city of New-Tork, merchant, caused himself to -be insured, at
"the city of NewTYor4," in a certain policy of -insurance, which
"was subscribed by the plaintiff, in the sum of 14,500 dollars,
upon any kind of goods and merchandise, laden, or to be
"laden, on board the brigantine Naicy, captain King, master,
"lost' or not lost, at and from any port and ports in the West"'CCIdies, and at and from thence to Arew-21or,, and there safely
" landed, beginning the adventure upon the said goods and merchandises, from the lading thereof on board the said vessel, at
" the West-Indies.
" On the 17th of October 1796, the said William I. Vreden,bztrgIh, by 7acob Sperry and Co. his agents, caused himself to
"be insured, at the city of Philadelphia,in a certaih other policy
"of insurance, which was subscribed by the defendant, in the
"sum of 1300 dollars, with other underwriters, in the whole
"amounting to 12,000 dollars, upon all kinds of lawful goods,
and merchandises, lost, or not lost, laden, or to be laden, on
" board

