436

4ASES

RULED AND ADJUDtED IN T1TE

1806.

LBender

versus Fromberger.

C

OVENANT. On the trial of the cause in lMiarch T. 1806,
it appeared, that the defendant and his wife bad sold and
conveyed a tract of land to the plaintiff for 23.0 dollars, by deed
dated the 8th of September 1797; and had therein covenanted,
"that the defendant was lawfully seised of a good, sure and in" defeasible estate of inheritance, in fee simple, in the said land,and
"had good right, full power, and authority, in his own right, to
"grant and convey the same to the plaintiff in fee." The deed,
also, contained a special warranty against the grantor and his heirs,
and all persons claiming under them. Bender took possession of
the premises and made considerable improvements, as well in
fences and buildings, as in the cultivation of the soil; so that the
property was valued, in May 1802, at 5000 dollars. An ejectment
was brought, however, at the suit of Benjamin Hilton against
Bender, in the Circuit Court of the UnitedStates; and, after a trial,
verdict, and jtidgment for the plaintiff, a Hab. Pac. Possess. issued
returnable to M1lay T. 1802, upon which the possession was delivered on the 4th of February 1802. Bender then instituted the
presett suit, in which the declaration stated the covenant, that the
defendant was seised of an indefeasible estate in fee simple, and
that he had a good right to convey the same to the plaintiff; and
assigned as a breach, that the defendant was not so seised, nor
I.ad he good right to convey the said land in fee to the plaintiff.
Profert of the deed was made, but oyer was not demanded. The
defendant pleaded Non infregit conventionem, on which issue ivas
Joined; and, also, performance with leave, &c. to which the plaintiff replied, generally, non-performance, and issue was thereupon
joined. At the trial of the cause, in March term 1806, upon the
recommendation of the Court, and with the consent of the parties,
a verdict was taken- in these terms: " The jury find for the plain.
"tiff 6232 dollars 50 cents: but if the Court shall be of opinion,
"that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover the value of the im"provements made by. him, after he purchased of the defendants,
"then they find damages 2979 dollars 14 cents, and 6 cents
" costs." (1)
Before
(1) At the trial of the cause, a question of some importance occurred. The

defendant claimed under a sale by the commonwealth of the premises as the
forfeited estate o? 7oeh Gri.wold, who, it was alleged, 1 .d be, n attainted, by
proclamation, during the revolutionary war. His counsel, with a view to maintain.the validity of his title, offa.ed to read the proclamation in evidence. The
opposite counsel proved, that the defendant had due notice of Hilon's ejectment; took part in preparing evidence for the trial; and had, in fact, acceded
to a settlement, in consequence ofthe eviction: And, they contended, therefore,
that the verdict in that ejectment was conclusive to establish a defect of title.
After argument, (in which the plaintiff's counsel cited, Cro. 1 304. Sid. 289. 2
Siow. 460. 9 Cu. 60. Bradlhau.'ccase, and the defendant's counsel cited,.l'Stra-

400.

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

437

Before the argument, on the point, which the jury had thus 1806.
submitted to the court, a motion was made in arrest of judgment, %--...
on the following grounds:
1st. That the declaration was vicious, inasmuch as it did not
assign a legal breach of the covenant.
2d. That there was not, in any part of the pleadings, sufficient
xnatter, for the court to render judgment in favour of the plaintiff.
3d. That it is apparent on the record, that the plaintiff has no
cause of action.
In support of these objections, it was argued,for the defen-dait,
1st. That the declaration does not aver, that the recovery in Hilton's lessee v. Binder, was upon a title paramount. .Freem. 122.
Hob. 12. 4 Co. 80. Cro. 7. 674, 5. Rob. 34. Ca. temp. Ilardw.
271. Cro. B. 917.. Cro. 7. 315. Cro. B. 823. Cro. Car. 5. Vauffh.
118. 2 Vent. 61. Cro. _. 444. 1 IT od. 292. 1 Lev. 301. 3 fod.
135. 3 T. Rep. 584. 2d. That although the modern authorities
admit, that it is sufficient, if the breach is assigned in the same
general words, as the*covenant; yet, in that case, it is necessary,
that the replication should be more specific and particular. Cro.
E. 544. Cro. _7. 171. 4. T. Rep. 620. For. non infregit conventionem is no plea, unless the breach is assigned affirmatively. Co.
Litt. 303. 6. And it IS a rule in pleading, that you cannot go to
issue on a general averment of performance. 3 fWroodes. 93. Cowp.
5.78. 3d. That the declarat ion contains a profert of the deed; and,
according to the practice of Pennsylvania,oder must be presumed,
R.
.. ep. 6. 28. 287. 8 T. Rep. .278.) the chief justice deliverpd the
400. 2
unanimous opinion of the court:
TILGHIAN, Chief.7ustice. Some difficulty has occurred in deciding tis
point; but the court have formed an unanimous opinion, that the etidence offerto tho land in question,
ed by the defendant, to prove that he had a good title
is inadmissible. The title has been alreadv decided in an ejectment, the only
ingde inwhich title to land can be directly decided; and of that e.lectment, the
defendant had full notice. If the defendant'shouldlnow be permitted to give his
title in evidence; and the jury should find a verdict in favour ofit, the plaintiff's
remedy, by action of covenant on the deed, would be gone; and if his title
should ultimately fail, on the trial of another ejectment,,to be brought by him,
lie would lose both land and money. But, on the other hand, if the plaintiff
recovers in the present suit, it is in our power, by imposing terms upon him,
to do justice to the defendant. Indeed, the plaintiff has made our interference
,innecessarv, by a voluntary oflr to execute a conveyance to the defendant of
allhis right, upon rec iving the damages awarded by the jury. He was not
obliged (as the diifendant's counsel allege) to tender tills conveyance, before
Le .rou.lit the suit: it is sufficient if the conveyance is executed, when thte
def'-nda,,t pays the damages.
We do not decide, whether the defendant might have gone into evidence oi
the title, if lie had given notice to the plaintiff, immediately after liuton's recovery, thathe was dissatisfied with the verdict, and meant,at his own expence,
to prosecute an ejectment against Hilton, to try the question a second time.
But, so far from pursuing tlii.s' course, the defendant's conduct has sh6wn an
Acquicsccncc in the. verdic: and jiudgment, which Hilton obtained.
The evidence refused.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED iN THE

38

1806. ed, which spreads the deed upon the record. Then, as it will
that the deed contains a special warranty, in the conclusion, the antecedent express covenant, that the grantor was steised
of an indefensible estate, &c. is thereby ristrained and controuied.
8 Lev. 43. ! 1ex. 57. Rep. ten,p. Finch 9G. 2 Bos. and Pull. IS.
3 Bos. and Pull. 565. 575. Thus, independent of general authorities. the words " grant, bargain an:I sell," which by themselves,
are declared in an act of assembly, to import'a q-eneralrarranty,
have always been considered as qualified and limited, if the deed
contains a sublequent 'pecialwarranty. 1 St. LaW., 109. And on
this construction of the deed, the plaintiff had no cause of action,
when the suit was instituted.

Sappear,

For the plaint , it was answered, 1st. That the declaration is
correct, in tech::i:::tt form; for, in covenanit, the breach may be
assigred in as genera- word&, as the coven:rt. 6 Vin. 42l. PI. 2.
&i.
3: 2 Show. 460. Sir 7.
(,,,.
60. G'o. 5"S01. 6 Vin. 424.
z69. 2 B:,e. Abr. 84. 6 Fin. A'lr. 4-22. p1 1.
14. C:o.
1m.
R
H'b. 12. 2 Bos. and Pill.14. (in notc)3 f'oode-s. 92. 5 Bac.58. "0.
2d. That the cases cited fir the defendant arose upon)a covt nant
for quiet enjoyment, which cannot be broken withot,t an actual
eviction; but a vcwenant of title, mar be broken without eviction,
upon proof that the grantor had not an estate in fee; an4, in an
action for the br-ach, it is neither necessary to allcge, noi'to prove,
an eviction. 3d. That the declaration assigns the breach on the
firs-t covenant only; and as oyer was nt:ver prayed, the second
covenaunt is not even before the court. 2 Saund. 228. 1 Saund.233.
"1Lev. 88. 1 Saund. 9. 307. 1 T. Rep. 149. 1 Stra. 227. Besides,
the covenants, though they cannot be regarded as one (which was
the case in 2 Bo:. and Pull. 1S.) are neither inconsistent, nor dontradictory: the one being a covenant, that the grantor hat a good
estate the other being a covenant of warranty; the latter is ntroduced into deeds by the scrivener, of course; but th6'n3iheir is
only inserted upon 'the agreement and instruction of parties. A
special covenant injfact, may restrain an implied covenant; but
here are two express covenants, whiLh mav operate together;
and.each.shouid be onstrued most strongly against the grantor.
2 Keb. 10. 15. 1 Sid. 289. 1 Lev. 183. 1.Sid 215.
The chief Justice, after stating the pleadings, and .the reasons
assigned in arrest ofjudgment, delivered the opinion of the court,
in the following terms:
As to th~e "irstpoint, although it
the couric
counsel, yet, I think, ifi
of the argiamcnt, it wvas nearly abandoned. It certainly has not
been supported; for mny cases have been produced, proving
that it is sulicient to assign the breach in terins as general as
those in which the covenant is expressed; (2)and more than bne

TILGMIA., (Wief Yustice.
.was opened by the 1: l'cidanCs

(2) 5 Bar.

43%

SUVPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

of those cases, were upon the very same kind of covenants as the
one now in question.
The second point, amounts, in substance, to this, that the issues were altogether immaterial.
It is an undoubted principle, that verdicts, after a trial of the
merits of a cause, are, if possible, to he supported. For this reason, many things are good after verdi't, whieh would be bad, on
demurrer. Iany things, not alleged in the pladings, may be presumed to have been proved on the trial; because, unless they had
been proved, the jury could not, properly, have given a verdict
in the manner they did. One of the authorities (3) cited by the
plaintiff's counsel, went to the point; that, upon a breach assigned, that the defendant was not seised of a good estate in fee, &c.
to which the defendant pleaded ncn infrqrit conventionem, and
thereupon issue was joined, the issue, though informal, was sufficient for the Court to enter judgment on. Now, this is the very
same issue as one of those joined in this cause.
But let us consider the other issue, joined on the plea of per-.
formance, with leave, &c. This kind of plea is peculiar to Pennsyl.
vania, and is unknown in England. It was invented to save the.
trouble of special pleading, and has been sanctioned by too long a
practice, to be now shaken. In fact, it gives the defendant every
advantage which he could derive from special pleading, and saves
all the labour and danger: for, upon notice to the plaintiff, without
form, he may give any thing in evidence which he might have
pleaded.. A great number of issues, in actions of covenant, hav6
been joined precisely as this is; and if this judgment miay be
arrested,on account of the immateriality of the issue, all. udgmients
founded on similar issues, are liable to be reversed, on writs of
error. In considering th.. present mot.on, the Court know nothing
but what appears on the record. Now, how can they say, that an
issue is immaterial, in which the defendant might, for aught that
appears, have given evidence of all those special matters, on
which the merits of his defence rested.
The defendant has conu nded, that it ought to have appearedither in the plea, or the replication, that the plaintiff had been evicted. But, it is to be observed, that if the cases cited by him, arc
examined, they will be found to be most, if not all, of them, on
covenants for quiet enjoyment, where the covenant was not broken
withouit an eviction by better title. But a covenait, that one is
sei'ed of an indejeasible e,.tate in fe, may be broken without an
eviction; and, in such case, the jury will. giv such damages as
they .hink proper. Upon the whole, I am ciear y of dpinicn,.that
this issue is not immaterial.
I will now consider the defendant's third point, which is, that
it appears, by the record, that the plaintiff has no cause of action.
:) 5 Bac. Pleas, title,

Imnatcrial and bifrmnal -"me,p. 59, GO

The

1806.

440

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGEDIN TITE

1806. The defendant's arg-mt nt is founded on this-zhat the plaintiff,
by making a profcrt of the deed, has hro-igbt its whole- contents
before the Court; that part of its contents, is a ciause of special
warranty, by which they say, the general covenant on which the
plaintiff has declared, is qualified and restrained; and, of course,
that the plaintiff has no cause of action, because the defendant
only warranted iagainst h'imsclf, and these who should claim under him. To this it has been answered, by the plaintiff's counsel,
and, I think, truly, that, oyer not having been prayed, no part of
the deed appears to the Court, but that which the piaintiff has
declared on; and, consequ. ntly, the Court can take no noti-e of
the special warranty. But I thifik it best to deliver my opinion
on the effect of the special warranty, that the defendant may not
be disquieted, by supposing that he had a good defence, which
he has lost the advantage of by a slip of his counsel. I subscribe
to the principle laid dowii by Lord Eldon, in the case of Browning v. Wright, (4) cited on the part of the defendant, that where
it manifestly appears, from a consideration of cvery part of the
deed, that no more than a special warranty was intended, it shall
be so construed, although the deed, in one part, contains words
of covenant of more general import. To this rule, I add the two
following ones: That, in construing a deed, no part shall be rejected, unless it produces contradiction or absurdity; and that, in
doubtful cases, a deed is to be construed in favour of the grantee.
The deed in question contains a conveyance by the words grant,
bargain, and sell; a covenant that the grantor is seised of a good
estate in fee simple, subject to no incumbrances, but a certain
ground rent; and a covenant of special warranty.
It has been the prevailing opinion, that by virtue of an act of
assembly, passed in the year 1715, (5) the Words " grant, bargain
and sell," have the force of a general warranty, unless restrained
by subsequent expressions. To qualify the general warranty, it
has been the custom of scriveners to insert a clause of special
warranty. And, I believe, it is inserted pretty much as a matter
of course, unless in cases where the parties agree on a general
warranty. I believe, too, that, in Pennsylvania, the greater part
of conveyances have, as Mr. Ingcrso/l has stated, been made with
special warranty. Still it remains to be considered, what was the
intent, of the grantor in the present instance? The defendant contends that his intent was, to give no more than a special warranty,
because the clause of special warrantv is inconsistent with, and
contradictory to, a general warranty. Now, in this, I cannot agree
with him. It is certain that the special waranty, and more, is
included in the general one. It is an inaccurate mode of conveyancing; but there is no absurdity or contradiction, in making one
covenant against yourself and your heirs, and another against all

L

(4) 2 Bos. tL Pull 14.

(5 1 St. Late, 109. s. 6.
mankind,

SUPI nE,

Couir

or Pm'hs'I.A.I1,

4. 1:

tankind. Th. special warranty was unnecess;miy, a'xl i.to., be Io6.
attributed to theignorance of the scrivener, who, probably, thou ;ht
it was a matter of course, without intending to affect the more
general preceding covenant; or, perhaps, he might think it necessary to guard against the effect of the words " grant, bargain, and
sell," used in the first part of the deed; because the estate was
subject to a ground runt, as appears from the general covenant,
in which it is said that the estate is free from all incumbrances,
except the said ground rtnt. It has been urged, that it is all one
covenant, because the special warranty is connected with the preceding general covenant, by the words and that. It is very
common, to c )nnect a covenant of -t'arranty, and a covenant for
further assurance, by these expressions. But what I rely. on, is
the intent of the parties, manifested in the deed considered altogether. I do not conceive it is possible -for a man of common
sense to declare, that he engages that he had a perfect estate iiy
fee simple, and had a good right to convey such perfect estate,
without intending to warrant to a greater extent, than against himself and his heirs. There are no technical expressions, but such as
every man understands, which is not the case with a special
warranty. To a common man it is not verv intelligible, that there
should ever be occasion to warrant and defend against himself,
and all persons claiming under him; for, it is verv natural to suppose, that when a man has. used words sufficient to convey his
estate to, a third person, he has necessarily done enough to bar
himself and all persons claiming under him, without calling in the
aid of a special warranty. In short, th6 insertion of the clause of
special warranty, is gonerally the act ofscrivehers; but I presume,
that no scrivener could be so stupid as to insert a coven'nt, that
" the gran:or was s 'ised of an indefeasible e3tate in fie," unless
he had been told by the parues, that a general warranty wais intended. I am, therefore, of opinion, that the special warrant, in
this deed, has not the effect of controiing the precedent general
covenant, and that judgment should be entered for the plaintiff.
It is proper to add, that after the conclusion of the argument
last night, I consulted with mti brither 2-eates, N ho enctu, s with
IN opinion, both with respect to the pleadings aud the conbtruction of the deed.

The Same Cause.

T

HE case now came before the court, on the point submitted
by the verdict; And this turned upon the question, whether
in an action of covenant, foundcd upon a deed,in which the grantor
covenants, that he has a good title to the land conveyed, the grantee, being evicted, is entitled to recver the price of the premises
1 L
VOL. IV.'

442
Ic-06.

%-r.j

CASE.S RULED

AND ADJUDGED IN THE

at the date of the deed, or the improved value, at the time of
the eviction?
Forthe plaint, it was contended, that the measure of damages,
on all covenants, is the amount of the loss actually sustained, and
though it would seem from the old books,that,in cases ofwarranty,
the recovery is to be according tb the value of the land, at the
time of the warranty; it was a recovery, in those cases, of land
only, and not (as ii this case) of money for damages. This position was illustrated and supported by an elaborate argiment, and
these authorities: 2 BI. C. 299, 300. 304. 22 Vin. 115, 146.
"1Vouchee." 3 Bl. C. 156. 1 Bac. Abr. 526. 3 Woodes. 91. 2. 1 Ld.
Raym. 107. 2 Ld. Raym. 1126. T. Rayn. 77. 30 Ed. 3. 14. 6. 19
R'. 6. 45. 6. 19 H. 6. 61." Sayre on Dam. 3, 4,-5, 6. 2 Caines 111.
4Nez-2"ork. Bay's Rep. 18. 263. South Carolina.
For the defendant, it was taken as conceded ground, that on a
wuarranty, strictly speaking, the value of the land, at the date of
the warranty, could alone be recovered, according to th.e law of
England; arid, it was contended, that there was r o legal, or equitable, dittiuction between that ease; and the gene;al case of covenanmt, further than the enlargement of the remedy; which was
limited, by the former, to a recovery in land; but, by the latter,
'the personal estate, also, becomes liable. 2 BL. C. 304. Godb. 152.
ohns. . 2' ReJ. 379.
The opinion of the court, upon great consideration, was deli.
\:ered, at an adjourned session, on the 17th of yanuary 1807.
The chief justice, after stating the facts, proceeded in the foliow.
ing terms:
TILGH3.MAt., Chief Yusti'e. The question submitted to us by the
jixry, hai never been decided in this court. It is of importance, and
has been well argued.
It may be taken for granted, that on a strict warranty, where
the remedy for the party who loses the lands, is either by voucher,
or writ of warrantia chartc, the recovery is oily according to
the value of the land at the time the warranty was created. This
is conceded by the plaintiff's counsel, and ver. properly; for, many
authorities were cited directly to the point. But this kind of war.
ranty, which is a covenant real, has long ceased, and has been
succeeded by the covenants personal, introduced into modern
conveyances. The latter have two advantages: the remedy by
action of covenan- is more easy in its form, and more comprehensive in its effects; for, it extends to the personal property of
the warxantor in the hands of his executors; whereas the ancient
recovery, in value, was confined to land. I know of no case in
England,where it has been decided,whether a recoveryin an action
of covenant, could be carried so far as to include damages, toi im.
provements made after the purchase; but, I must suppose, that
Sir William Blackstone was of opinion, that such damages could
not

SUPREIN

COURT OF P FNNSYLVANIA.

4-,3

not be included, otherwise he ought certainly to have mentioned 1806.
it, when he was comparing the ancient warranty with the mod.rn
covenants, which, he says, have superseded them. His expressions
are these: " If he covenants for his executors and administrators,
his personal assets, as well as his real, are pledged for the per" formance of the covenant, which makes such covenant a better
security than any warranty, and it has, therefore, in modern
practice, totally superseded the other." A general warranty,
is as comprehensive in its expressions, as any wyords made use of
in modern covenants. It undertakes to defend the land to the
warrantee, his heirs and assigns, against all persons whatever. It
is in its nature a covenant real; and since the recovery on it extended no farther than the value of the land, at the time of the
warranty made, the inference is very strong, that in these personal
covenants, which have succeeded to it, the extension shall be no
greater. But the plaintiff's counsel contend, that the reason
why the recovery in value, on the ancient warranty, was confined
to the value, at the time of its creation, is, because in real action.v
no daiiages can be recovered. This reason is unsound. The value,
at the time of the voucher, might have been recovered, without
recovering damages; and this is evident, from some of the
cases which have been cited; particularly, the Aase of Ballet v.
Ballet; where it is decided, that in a warralita chartae, if there be
new buildings, of which the warranty is demanded, which were
not at the time of the warranty made, the defendant must take
care to shew the special matter, and enter into the warranty, only
fbr so much as was at the time of .he making of the deed, otherwise the plaintiff will recover, according to the value, at the time
of entering into the warrantyi. The true reason, 'therefore, appears to be. that the intention of the parties was so understood,
that the warranty should be limited to the value of the land, at
the time of executing the deed.
The plaintiff's counsel cited a case from 22 Vin. -b. 145. pl.
;. in order to prove, that upon the implied warranty, which arises
on an exchange of land, the recovery in value, after eviction,
is according to the actual loss sustained. As this seemed to
be at variance with the general principles of warranty, I have
examined it since the argument of the cause, and fiid that the
case was not properly explained. The words of the abridgment
are as follow: '1If a man recovers in value upon a warranty in
4c law, on an exchange, he shall have in value, according to the
" vahte -wieh/ he ha. lost." In support of this, the case of Bustard,
4.Coke 121. is cited. In the first place, it is to be remarked, that in
the marginal note to p.1. 6. in the same page of ftner, it is said,
that the same case is reported in Crohe Elizabeth, illoore, and Telverton, in neither of which is such point mentioned; and it is
certain, from my Lord Cohe's report, that the decision must have
been extra-judicial; for Bustard's case turned on a different point.
Busztard

.444

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TIM

1806. Bustard, being evicted of the land received by him in exchange,
. . entered upon that which he had given in exchange, by virtue of
the impliedcondition in law,
i.shch
annexed to an exehan-e- and
a re-entry was made on him; in consequence of which he brought
an action of trespass; and whether he could recover in that action,
was the question: so that the court had nothing to do with the
value of the land. But according to my Lord Coke's account of
it,.what they did decide concerning the value, is not applicable to
the point now before the court. The decision is,--that if A. who
has received three acres in exchange, is impleaded for one acre,
and vouches B. from whon" he received them, and then the demandant recovers the one acre, A. shall recover in value from B.
according to the loss, that is one acre; but not a word is said
concerning the time, to which the value of this acre is to re;
late. And that is the only question now under consideration.
It has been coiitended,-that the true measure of damages in all
actions of covenant, is the loss actually sustained. But this rule
is laid down too generally. In an action of covenant for non-pay.
ment of money, on a bond, or mortgage, no more than the principal and legal interest of the debt cau be recovered, although the
plainiff may have suffered to a much greater amount by the de.
.hultofpayment. The rule contended for by the plaintiff's counsel.
in its utmostlatitude, applied to cov6nants like the present, would,
in many instances, produce excessive mischief. Indeed, the counsel have, In some measure, given up this rule, by confessing, tha
when buildings of nagnzfcence are erected to gratify the ltxur
of the wealthy, it would be unreasonable to give damages to tht
extent of the loss; but the ruinous consequences would not be ies,
to many persons, who have sold lands, on which no other thar
Isfitl buildings have been erected. The rise in the value of land
not only in towns on the sea coast, but in the interior part of thc
United-States, is such, that it can hardly be supposed any pruden
man wotild undertake to ainswer the incalculable damages, ihicl
migh't overwhelm his family, under the construction conten'd(d fol
by the plaintiff. I have taken pains to ascertain the opinion o
lawyers in this state, prior to the American revolution, and I thinl
myself warranted in asserting, from the information I have re
ceived, that the prevailing opinion, among the most eminen
counsel, was, that the standard of damages, was the value of th(
land at the time of making the contract. The title of land rests a:
much within the knowledge of the purchaser as the seller; it de
pends upon writings, which both Parties have an equal opportu
nity of examining. If the seller makes 'use- of any fraud
concealment, or artifice, to mislead the purchaser in examining tlhi
title, the case is different, he will then be answerable for all losse
which may ensue.
Cases have been cited from the civil law; but I throw them out o
view, because this case can be decided only on the principles a
the common law.,
Case

45

SUPREXE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Cases have, also, been cited from law reports, in the states of 1806.
South-Carolina and NArew-Torh. Though they are not authority ih
this Court, yet we shall alway% be happy to rcceiv informatioh
of the opinions of the learned judges, in our sister states, and always treat them with due respect. Upon the point now in question,
it seems there is a difference of opinion. In South-Carolinait has
been held, that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, according to the
value at the time of the action: In Yew-lork, that he can only
recover according to~the value at the- time of the contract. On
these cases I will only remark, that the opinions of the judges in
South-Carolina,hia:Ving been given during the hurry of a jury trial,
do not appear to have been founded on such mature deliberation
as those of the .New-llorh judges, who made their decision in the
Supreme Court, sitting in bank.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion, that by the true construction
of the covenants in the case before us, the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover the value of the improvements made by him, after he
purchased of 7ohn Fromberger,and, therefore, that judgment beentered for 2979 dollars 14 cents, and costs.
I am authorised to say, that judge Teates, whose absence is
occasioned. by sickness, concurs in this opinion.
'.

S.1TMIT, yustice. The question now to be decided by this Court
is of great importance. I understand that it has long been discussed among the most eminent counsel in Pennsylvania,and opinions
have been given by some of them; but that it never has received
a judicial decision. I believe, on inquiry, that it never came before any Court in Pennsylvania,until th& 24th of May 1804, when
it came before the Circuit Court, holden for the county of Norin the case.of Wiland myself,We
thumberlandbyjudgcBracenrde
11am
Bonham v. John WI~lker's a Iministrator;
saidthat "it
" solemn
decisionquestion,
in bank; and
we therefore
propose,it that
should
the ieceive
it isproper.that
measurea
is an important

" of damages should b.e
left to the jury, on each of these grounds,
" which is done accordingly."~ The jutr found "a verdict for the
" plaintiff, for 1092 dollars 17 cents damages, on the ground of
" the original purchase money; "and on the ground of the value
" of the land at the time of the execution, (eviction) 1602 dollars
"t 21 cents.".
After my return, I was induced to make diligent in quirw
whether the point had ever been decided, and what had been the
general opinion of eminent counsel~on it, and the result was that
expressed by the chief justice. Upon a very attentive perusal of
the cases on the stubject; the notes of which, taken by me thn,
and annexed to that case, are now before me; they did uot, in my
opinion, warrant mc in drawingf a different conclusion; but I saw
dificulties, whether the question was decided one way or the other,
which made me anxous to hear it deliberately argued: ready to
alter

446

CAsEs RULED AxD ADJUDGED IN THEf

1806. alter my opinion, if I should discover, that it was not well founded; or if the opposite opinion should be supported by law, be
more conducive to the general interest, and be more agreeable
gener.ly- to th- intentions of the parties to such contracts.
I have heard it i'nry well argued. If the very well arranged and
able argument of the ingenious young gentleman who began (Mr.
Ser'geant) has not been able to shake the opinion which I had lormed,.I am :i.hIuced to btlieve that it is well founded, on solid principles , law. I must, therefore,adhere toit upon the present occasion;
it not being suggested that there was anvfraudorconcealment on
the part of the vendor, nor an%, knowledge when he sold, of any defect in his title. Had any oi these circumstances occurred, I should
be of opinion, that he would be liable to the amount of the loss.
Although the vendor, on a covenant like that in question, be
liable to damages only to the value at the time of the deed; yet,
he may enter into such a special express covenant, as will make
him liable to the value at the time of eviction, and so much will
the vendee on such event be intitled to. In the present case I
agree, that judgment be entered for the plaintiff for 2979 dollars
14 cents&
. BRACKENRIDGE, Justice. I concur in the decision of the other
judges, for the reasons which have been assigned.

Lv...

Judgment to be entered in favour of the plaintiff, for 2979 dollars 14 cents, and costs.
Lewis, Rawle, and 7. Sergeant, for the plaintiff.
M'Kean (Attorney-Genera) and Ingersoll, for the defendant.

Dutilh versus Gatliff.

T ,Case.

HE following case was stated for the opinion of the Court:
On the 24th of September 1799,the defendant, Samuel
Gatlff, underwrote scven hundred and fifty dollars upon a policy
of insurance on the schooner Little Vill, belonging to 7ohn Duti/k and Thomas Lillibridge, for whom the plaintiff was agent, on
voyage at and from Philadelphiato Ilavanna.
On the 26th of September 1799, the Little Will sailed on her
voyage; from Philadelphia for liavanna, and on the 8th day of
October following, she was captured by three British privateers,
and carried into the port of Nassau, NAev-Providence, where she
arrived on the 12th of the same month.
Upon her arrival in Nassa,, the said schooner was libelled in
the Admiral:y Court, anl on the 9th day o November following,
was regularly .mquitted; and in the who'le, she remained thirty
seven days at Nassau, during toi't, five of which she was in cus:odv of the captors; but the fact of her acquittal .was not known
to

