CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA

DISTRICT.

May Term 1802.
Present

TILGHMAN,

BASSET,

and

(IRIFFITIIS

Chief Judge.
AssociateJ

JA

The United States versus Conyngharn et a.
T HIS cause came before the Court, on a case stated for their
opinion, in the following terms:
" At the term of September 1798, judgment was obtained in
" the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, at the suit of 7on Travis
*c et al.v. Francis and Yohn ,est, for 1365. 3s. 9d. debt qnd
" 6d.ocosts.
" A f9eri facias issued under the said judgment, returnable to
"December term 1798, under which certain goods and chat" tels, (1) belonging to the defendants, were levied on and taken
" in execution, by the sheriff of the county of Philadelpia,on
" the 8th day of .'anuary1799.
" The 8th of Yanuary 1799, the said 7ohz Travis and others,
" plaintiffs in the said action, for a full and valuable considera" tion, to them paid by the defendants in this action, assigned
" the judgment, and all the monies due thereon, to them the said
" David H. Conyngham and )Joh ffl_Nesbitt.
" The goods and chattels so as aforesaid levied upon, were,
CC
with the assent and approbation of the Said plaintiffs in the said
judgment before the said assignment, and by the defendants in
"his action since the said assignment, and by the sheriff, with
"the assent and approbation aforesaid, permitted to be and re(1) It was agreed on the argumeut to state, that the goods were, princi-

pally, household furniture.

- mahi

CASEs RULED AND ADjUDGED, &c.

359

main in the possession of the said Francis and 7ohn West un. 1802.
til the levying of the execution hereinafter mentioned.k-...
" At the August sessions 1797, of the ditrict Court of the
" United States, for the Pennsylvania district, judgment was obtained, at the suit of the United States, against the said Francis and Joohn West, under which judgment a writ of fieri faC cias was issued, and on the 13th day of January 1800, was
' levied on the same goods and chattels, then being in the pos.
"session of the said Francis and John lfrest, or one of them.
" On or about the 20th day of April 1801, after a time had
"been fixed, by the marshal of the United States, for the sale of
" the property so levied on by him, at the suit of the United
"States, and after advertisements had been put up in the most
public places, of the city of _Philadelphia, notifing the time and
place of such sale, the present defendants, for the first time,
" gave notice of the prior execution before mentioned.
" Notice was given to the marshal, that if he proceeded on thc
-'' sale, an action would be brought against him; and it was.
"therefore, agreed, that the goods should be appraised by sworn
appraisers, which was done, and the value tlereot, according
"to the appraiiemeni amounting to 1557 dollars 75 cents, is
"admitted to be in the hands of the difendants in this action.
C The question sul'mitted to the Court is, whether, on the
preceding circumstances, the execution issued by John Travi.
"et al. can be supported against the execution subsequently is"sued by the United States.
" If the Court shall be of opinion in the affirmative, then
"judgment to be given for the defendant, otherwise for th:e
"plaintiff.
"A. J. DALLAS, for plaintiff.
"MOSES LEVY; for defendant.
" 7anuary 30th 1802."
The question was discussed by Rawle and Dallas, for the
plaintiff, and by Lewis and Levy, for the defendant; the formel
relying on the authorities in the English books: I YVez. 245, 6.
1 Wils. 44. 7 filod. 37. 10 Vin. Abr. 561. 568. Peake. . P. 65.
1 Salk. 320. Carth. 420. 2 Vern. 238. Ld. .Raym. 251. cowl.
712. 1 T. Rep. 729. 1 Esp. 205. And the latter relying on thc
decisions of the Courts of Pennsylvania, varying the English
rule of law, according to the peculiar circumstances of the country. See-ante, p. 165. 208. 213.

The CouRT after great deliberation and research, delivered
elaborate opinions, seriatim, upon the principles and authorities,
connecte.a with the discussion; expressed their regret at differing from the decisions of the state Courts; and, unanimously,
gave judgment for the plaintiff.
Knox

