2ASES

274

RULED AND ADjIuDGED IN THF,

1803. after notice to the assured of the loss; and that, in the present
.
case, there did not appear to have been any design to .waive the
right of abandonment, though its exercise was suspended by a
public calamity, and other fortuitous occurrences.
Upon the whole, the opinion of the Court was in favour of the
plaintiff, and the Jury'gave a verdict accordingly.

t.

Kingston.versus Girard,
ASE, on a policy of insurance, to recover for a total loss,
by capture. On the trial bf the cause two points of defence
were urged: 1st. That there had been a deviation; inasmuch as
the vessel tradedat the port to which she was carried by the captor. -Park,311,312, 313. 295. 2d. That the extra expenses for
wages, provisions, &c. during a capture and detention, were
not a subject of general average; but a charge on the freight.
Pa4, 54, 55. Abb. 285. 3. 1 East, 220. .7ones et al. v. The In.
surazc Company of North Anzerica. (1).
(

It was admitted, by the plaintiff's counsel, that after the vesse was carried into the port of the captor, and before she was
liberated, the extra-expenses were not a subject of general
average; but, they insisted, that the expenses, subsequent to the
liberation, were general average. Parh,54. 2 Marshal, 462. 1. 4.
By the COURT: If the vessel, after her release, remained at
Martinique,to which she was carried by the captor, longer than
was necessary to prepare for her voyage, and for the purpose of
trading, it was a deviation; and the policy is void.
Whether the e;Ktraordinary expense incurred for seamen's
wages, provisions, &c. during the detention of the vessel, upon a
capture as prize, is a subject of general average, forms an important question. In the case of. Yones et al. v. The Insurance Company of North-Ainerica, we decided, unanimously (and' our
opinion is strengthened by mature reflection) that such expenses,
during an embargo in a foreign port, in the course of the voyage
insured , are not general average, but a charge upon the freight,
for which the underwriters upon the freight alone, must furnish
an indemnity. We think, that the same principle embraces the
case of detention for the purposes of a quarantine. In the case
of detention, by capture as prize, there is not, however, any
direct authority to decide the responsibility; and the principle of
the other cases, does not embrace it. Elementary writers,
Beawes and Magens, differ in opinion. It is, upon the whole, a
safe, and the best, rule, to consider, whether the expence is incurred, for the general benefit of all the parties interested, in
(1) Since reported, ante p. 246.

ship,

SuPREME COURT 07 PENNSYLVANIA.

27!

ship, cargo, and freight. If it is, then all the patties should con- 1803.
tribut6 to defray it. If it is not (as in the cases of embargo and %
quarantine, where the delay and expense are submitted to, merely
that the vessel may earn her freight) then, the party who alonp.
enjoys the benefit, should alone sustain the loss.
Lewis and Hare, for The plaintiff.
Ingersolland Rawle, for the defendant.

M'Fadden versus Parker et al.
HIS was an action brought against Parker and Wharton, the,
indorsers of a promissory note, instituted at the same time,
that an action was brought against George Eddie, the drawer of
the note. There had been a trial, and verdict for the plaintiff,
in December term 1801, subject to the opinion of the Court upon'
a case stated, involving two questions: 1st. Whether a plea
puis darein continuance, had not been entered too late by the
defendants? And 2d. Whether the new matter pleaded, 'was
sufficient to bar the plaintiff's recovery? After some argument
on the case, at December term 1802, the parties made the folIowing arrangement:
" That the judgment shall remain as a security, and an issue
" be formed and tried under this agreement. That the defendants
" be permitted to enter, at this time, a plea puis darein continu.
"ance, with like effect, as if it had been entered at the day
given for their next appearance, after the new matter occurred.
" That the plaintiff be allowed to give evidence of all facts and
"circumstances to show, that the new matter pleaded ought not
"to operate as a discharge of the defendants. That the de"fendants be allowed to give evidence of all facts and circumstances to repel such evidence, on the part of the plaintiff,
"to show that such new matter ought to operate in their dis" charge; and to establish that the plaintiff has received actual
" value, or security, for the debt, from the drawer of the note.
" And that it be admitted, on the trial, that notice, in due form
" of law, was given to the defendants, by the plaintiff, of the
" non-payment of the aote, on which the suit is founded."
Under this agreement, the defendants relinquished all former
pleas, and entered puis darien continuance, the plea of payment,
with leave to give the special matter in evidence.
T

On the trial of the cause, it appeared, that a testatum ca. sa.
had issued into Northampton county, returnable to December
term 1797, in the case of ZI'Fadden v. Eddie, upon which the
defendant was arested; that, while he was in custody, he gave
a bond and warrant of attorney to confess judgment to the plaintiff,

