421

CIRCUIT COURT, PNNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

1806.
Russel, for the use of Crucet, -versus the Union Insurance

Company.

on an open policy, for 10,000 dollars, at a preC OVENANT
mi urm of 10 per cent. upon goods on board the ship Hibberts,
on a voyage at and from the Havanna to lVew-r1orh. The case
was this: the ship -Iibbertsand her cargo, the property of British
subjects, were captured by a French privateer,. and carried 'into the
H vanna. They were there claimed by Mr. C. Frazier, (an' En-

glish merchant) on the .recommendation of captain Va-sittart,
commanding a British frigate, for the British owners, and an
order for restitution was granted by the Spanish government, on
security being given, for the appraised value, (to wit, the ship 9655
dollars, and ,he cargo 22,400 doll-,s,) to abide the issue of.an
appe'al, made by the captor, from the order of restitution. The
captain had been removed at sea, at the time. of the capture, and
sent to the United States; but the first and second mates, whd"
went in the ship to the -avanna, offered the security; which
was given, at their instance, by Mr. Felix Crucet (a Spaniard,
constituted their attorney) and the ship and cargo were thereupon
delivered to him, on account of the original owners'; but accompanied by a written declaration from Mr. Frazier, "that ship
"and Lai-go were subject to 6'rucet'sorders until he shall be finally
"indemnified, fbr his disbursements for costs of suit, outfits, corn"missions, &c. aid be released from his security." 6'rucet having
determined to send the ship and cargo to the UnitedStates,wrote
two letters, dated, respectivel., the 7th and 23d of yuhf 1804,
to his correspondent, Henry IJ.ll, at Nezu-rork, in which, after
representing the facts above stated, and ordering insurance, he
proceeds in these wofds: "In my letter of the 7th inst. ordering
"insurance on the ship Hibberts and cargo, I stated fully the
"footing on which she was delivered to 'me, by the governor and
"auditor of war, on security and mortgage.; 'and'she now pro-'
"ceeds to your address, with all the papers then mentioned on
"board, besides the invoice, and bill of lading of the cargo.
"From what are herewitli inclosed, you will observe, that the
"mortgage and security have been given for 22,410 dollars, value
"of the cargo, and 9655 dollars, value of the ship Hibberts,tohold
dthat amount of stock, being 32,065 dollars, subject to the brder of
"the court here, dntil the appeal, entered to the supreme council of
"war in M11adrid, shall be decided. You will also observe, that
"my account of advances for law costs, repairs, sails, rigging,
"provisions, advance wages, &c. for the ship, in this port, amounts
"to 6444 dollars 1. cents ;.my commission of guarantee, on-giving
"the security and mortgage, 5 per cent, on 32,065 dollars, is
" 1653 dollars 1 cent; and my commission for agency and trouble,
3621 per cent, 826 dollars 4 cents, ma s total 8923 dollars 7-.
"cent-,

C4sEs RULED AND ADjun nE IN THE

4"22

1806. " cents, and that the last mentioned sum of 8923 dollars 72, cents,

,-

"must be paid to me here,. and I must be entirely freed -and re" leased in this city, for the security and mortgage I have given
"for the ship and cargo, before giv'ing up any part of the proceeds
"thereof. I hai'e wrote to the concerned in England, apprizing
"them of these circumstances, and that I shall give them due
"advice, from time to time, of the progress of the appeal. You
"iwill, I hope, exert yourself to dispose of the ship and cargo to
"the best advantage, for the benefit of the concerned, sending the
"account sales to me here, as soon as conveniknt, in order to be
"transmitted to them in England."
The letter of instructions from Crucet to the captain of the
.libberts, directed him "to proceed direct to New-Tork, and there

"deliver the letters, and other papers, to Mr. Henry Bill, jun.;
"and, in his absence, to Mr. Samuel Russel, merchant there, to
"whom the cargo is consigned. These gentlemen will, also, take
charge of the .ship in New-Tork, and will furnish you with
"money to pay off the officers and crew; and will pay vou"any
"balance that may be due to yourself." And the invoice was
headed, "Invoice of the cargo on board the ship Hibberts, of
London, 7ohn Baines, master, bound for New York, and con"signed to Mr. Henry Hill, jun. merchatit there, by Felix
Crucet, on account and risque of the owners, underwriters, or
"others in England,.or those who may be concerned in said ship

"and cargo."
On the 13th of _August 1804,.1 S. Waln, for Samnuel Russel,
(the consignee appointed by Crucet, in case of Hill's absence) eflected the insurance, which is the ground of the present action.
The ship sailed on the voyage insured; but was captured by tht: Leander off Sandy Hook, on the 16th ot lugust 1804,and sent to Halifax, where she arrived on the 31st of August: The vessel and cargo
were there libelled in the court of vice-admiralty as prize, and
claimed by the captain- for Crucet: but by the decree of the court,
pronounced on the 10th of October, the claim was rejected, and
the judge "pronounced the ship and cargo to be the property of
"B-iti"h subjects, re-captured. by his majesty's ship of war
"Leauder, and decreed the said ship and her cargo to be restored
"to the originai British owners,, on payment.to the re-captors of
,"one-eighth part of the value thereof, and the claimant to pay
" costs." (1) From this decree he claimant appealed; but the
vessel and cargo were delivered, on security, to the agent of th6
original British owners, and sent by him to England.
When the ship was captured, it was notified to the defendants,
who agreed to pay a just proportion of the expence of recovering
(1) In speaking of the deeree of restitution, taking the property from the
hands of a Spaniard,who had so fkirly obtained a lin upon it, the court was
reminded, that although war was declared between Great Britain and France
1803, Spain did not become a party to it till the 1Ilt
on the 16th of M3fay
'faauary 180&

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICr.

423

the property; but no actual abandonment, or offer to abandon, was 1806.
made, until the 2d of November, when the decree of the vice-ad- t
mir.*lty had been received by the plaintiff.
On the trial 6f the cause, the plaintiff's counsel read to thejury,
the policy, the orders of Crucet and his agents for insurance,
(which had been communicawted to the defendants at the fime of
effecting the insurance) and the Nhole of the record of the proceedings in the court of vice-admiralty; but neither, the original
hypothecation to 'rucet,nor the original bill of lading, nor the
briginal invoice, nor any other proof of the special property of
the plaintiff, in the ship and cargo was produced: and as
soon as the plaintiff's counstA began to argue upon the papers
found on board the ship, and spread upon the record, (to wit, the
hypothecation, bill of lading, and invoice,) as proofof property,
the opposite counsel objecttd, that although the whole record must
be read, it was only evidence of the sentence of restitution.
The general defence was then placed on these grounds: 1st.
That the abandonment was not made in due season; which, however, was an objection mentioned, but not strenuously urged.
Parl.82. 81. Ea.) 172. 1 T. Rep. 608. 2d. That the insurance
was effected up6n ship and goods, on account and risque of the
original British owners, not on the special interest of Crucet, for
his use and indemnity. Park. 267. 8. 1 T. Rep. 309. Sd. That
the decree is conclusive to prove that the property was not in
Crucet; and the restitution to the original owners, was restitution
to him as their agent. 4th. That the *tatements of Crucet and his
agents, to the underwriters, are not evidence of the facts contained
in them upon the present trial; nor are the papers set forth in the
record of the court of vice-admiralty, legal, or conceded, proofs
of property.
For the plaintiff, it was contended, 1st. That his interest was of
an insurable nature. 2d. That the nature of his interest was communicated to the defehdants, at the time of effecting the insurance.
3d. That the loss of Iiis possession, on the capture and restitution,
was the loss of his lieh, and, in its effect, total. 4th. That the record
being read, without previous objection, or restriction, every part
of it became evidence in itsif; and the property of the plaintiff
was provt:d by it. 5th. That, however, the question of property
was a question of fact; and the papers on the record must, at least,
be iegarded, as corroborating the statements of the plaintiff and
his agents, to prove his interest in the subject insured.
The charge of the court was delivered by the presidingjfidge,
irn substance as follows:
WAsHINGTON, 7iustice. Though the case involves points of
some novclty, and of consider.able difficulty. we have so f'r satisfied our minds, that we will not request the jury, to reserve any
thing

4,24

CASEs RuLED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. thing for fhture consideration, although either party is at liberty
to move for a new trial.

'Yd

The first and principal difficulty is, whether Crucet has proved
his interest-in the subject insured, by proper evidence. The record
of a court of admiralty is always evidence to prove a condenna.
tion; but, certainly, in cases between the insurer and insured, it is
only evidence, according to the general rule, to prove the cause
of condemnation. On the prescnt occasion, however, the record
was read to the jury without opposition; and, on this ground alone,
we decide it fo be an exception to the rule. For, if the objection
had been made, the plaintiff would have enjoyed an opportunity
to supply the proof by other means.
".The record is, therefore, considered as proof of facts, so far
as
it exhibits documents, which, if now produced, would be evidence
in the cause. This still excludes, on the one hand, letters written
by Crucet; while, on the other hand, it admits those papers, authenticated by other soiirues, that show the extent of his advances,
the nature of his engagements, and the lien which he acquired
upon the ship and cargo.
Upoi the evidence, thus admitted, Crucet appears clearly to
have acquired a contingent interest in the property; but it was,
at first, a question oi great doubt with us, whether it was an insurable interest. As to his actual advances of money, there could
be no doubt, provided there was (as there is not) satisfactory
evidence on that point, independent of what proceeds from him.
self. But to the right of insurance, the obligation of abandonment,
incase of loss, would seem to be an inseparable incident; and we
doubted, 'whether Crucet had any thing in the pi-opertv, which he
could abandon upon a loss, and, of course, which he was entitled
to insure.; On reflection, however, we conclude, that, upon an abandonment, the underwriters acquire all Crucet's rights and remedies
against the Britishowners: And, as to the manner of insuring his
interest, it is clear, that a person having a lien upon a cargo, may
cover it by an insurance on goods.It is true, that the assured should communicate to the underwriter, the nature of his interest in the subject'insured, though it
need iiotbe specified in the policy; and, on this ground, a question
of fact arises, for the consideration o. the jury. If the insurance
of the special interest, and not of the pricipal ownership, inade
a material difference in the. risque, or would have altered the
amount of the premitim; and the fact was not sufficitntly disclosed
to the'defendants, the omission would vacate *thepolicy.
After this view of the case, it only remains to inquire, whether a loss has hhappened, which entitles the plaintiff to recover? He
has lost his posssession: aid aiffhough we will not decide, whether
the capture and senteneb hav' destroyed his lien; we think, that
as they have rendered it necessary to pursue the property, through
an

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

425"

-in expensive, troublesome, and doubtful, medium; he has a right to 1806.
consider the occurrence as a total loss, and to recover the amotuit
of the insurance.
Verdict for the plaintiff. (1)
Ingersoll and Rawle, for the plaintiff.
P. Tilghman and Dallas, for the defendants.
(1) A motion was afterwards made for a new trial, on the single ground, that
there was no proof ofproperty in the plaintiff; except the. ship's papers, spread
upon the record of the court of vice-admiralty. An affidavit was filed, stating
that Mr. Ingersoll had applied to Mr. Dallas, before the jury were sworn, to
admit the record as proof of property, which was refused; nd that the application of the record to that purpose (after it had been read) was opposed, as
soon as it was attempted. But the motion was rejected, as Judge W.sHn.O,Toz; adhered to the opinion delivered in the charge, and Judge PETERS -:aid,
that he had decided as well on that ground, as on the corroborati%e evidence,
arising from the sameness of the documerai found in the ship, atd tl.1se described in the communications to the defendants, when the insurance wras
fffected.

VOL. IX.

