SUPREME COURT
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

December Term 1806.
Present TILGHMAN, Chief Justice.
SiIITH, and

BRACKENRIDGE,

-

u

.

jusUces.

Lyle versus Baker et at.
r'HIS action was ir1 stituted, in the Common Pleas of Philaldelphia county, at September term 1806; and a habeaT corpUs was taken out by the defendants on the 1st of Decenber'fdllowing, to remov'e it into the Supreme Court. Tod, for the
plaintiff, alleged that the habeas corpus had issued too late, and.
moved for a procedendo, on the 20th section of the act of the 24th.
of February 1806 (7 vol. 342.) which provides, "1that no action
"shall be remo-ed from any of the Courts of Common Pleas, to
the Supreme, or Circuit Courts, by consent, or otherwise, un" less the same is removed, on, or before, the first day of the
gr next term, after the said action shall have been commenced."
After argument in a full Court (but Judge YEATEs being now
absent, owing to indisposition) the Chief 7ustice, on the 17th of
7anuary 1807, delivered the following inanimous opinion.
TILGHMAN, C. _. The case turns entirely upon the construction of the 20th section of the act, "to alter the judiciary system
Ccof this commonwealth." Where the intention of the legislature is
clearly expressed, it must prevail, whatever may be the consequences. But, in the endeavour to discover the legislative intention, we must so co~strue the law, as not to reject any of its
words;
3K
VOL. IV.

'B4

CAsEs RULED -AND ADJUDGED IN TIHZ

1806. words; and if there appf ars to be a contradiction in the expresL
sions, we must seek and pursue, upon the whole, the prevailing
object and intent of the-law. ViLwing, then, all the parts of the
section under consideration, I am of-opinion, that an action may
be removed to the Supreme Court, at any time before, or on, the
first day of the term, succeeding that to which the original writ
is returned. The expression, " first day of the next term after
" the action shll have been commenced," taken by itself would,
certainly, limit the: remov:il to the firs. day of the first term:
but other expressions (I mcn, particularly, the words, "on or
" bfrre") must, also, he considered; and they cannot be satisfied,
if the right of removal is rt stricted to the first dai of the first
term. It is impossible to remove an action, bejre the first
day of the term, to which the wirit is returnable; as the writ of
removal is directed to the Court. in which the attion is brought,
and the Court can have no knowledge of the action, until its session, at the term, ext succeeding its commencement.
I On this view of the stbject, we are of opiinion, that the intention of.the legislature cannot be carried into effect, without so
construing the act, as to admit of the removal of an action; on,
or before, the first day of thb term next after that, to which the
9riginal writ is returnable.
Procedendo refused.

Ozeas versus Johnson; Administrator of Foulke.

for money had and received, &c. The plaintiff, and
C ASE
Foudke, the intestate, had been jointly concerned in a mercantile adventure from Philadelphia to Ecv-Orleans; but there
was no evidence, at the trial, that they had ever settled their accounts; and this action was brought to recover a balance claimed
by the plaintiff. The jury, accordingly, gave a verdict, in his favour, for 320 dollars, subject to the opinion of the Court, on a
point reserved; to wit, whither the plaintiff, being a partner of
Foulke's, and equally concerned in the adventure, could recover
in'the present form of action?
On arguing the point reserved, S. Levy, for the plaintiff, urged
that the action of account render was almost obsolete; that the
action for money had and received, was in nature of a bill in
equity; that, having no distinct Court of equity, equity had be.come, in effect, a part of the common law of Pennsylvania,administered through her common law Courts; and that the sense
of the legislature, on the subject, %vasmanifbstcd in the 6th sec.
tion of the act of the 1st of Mawch 1806 (7 vol. p. 562.) which
provides, " that in all cases where any suit has been brought in
" any Cburt of record witbin this commonweaith, the same shall
"

not

