308
1804.

CAsEs RULED A-li ADJUDGED IV THE
for the settlement of lanzls', by the ostensible owner, having become actualit"
indebted. The deed is not only void, as it contains a clause of'revocation, ant
cannot be regarded as a legal settlement; but it is fraudulent, as it remained
in the possession and power of the grantor. In the course of this argument,
the following authorities were cited: 2 .Bu.t.
226. 3 Co. 81. 1 Burr. 475. 2 Vrer;.
510. 1 At. 168. 2 Ath. 481. 1 Aek. 15. 2 Vez. 10. 11. 2 Vern. 510. 3 Co. 82. b

2 Freem. 236.
The CounT (composed of MIKEA-,, Chief justice, and SHiiPpt. an':
SMITH, yustice:) delivered their'opinions, unanimously, in favour ofthe set-

tlement; and the jury found a verdict accordingly.

Duncason versus M'Lure.
T 'HIS was an dction of trover for the ship B
),"ezon,
,ent
which the defendant had purchased, under a sentence of
condemnation as prize, pronounced by the French Provisional
Tribunal of Prizes, established in the city of St. Domingo. The
material facts of the case were these: (1)" Mr. Duncanson, an
English gentleman, came to the United States with a view to
settle; and, in order to manifest his intention, took an oath of
allegiance to the state of Penfisylvania, though he had not been
long enough in the country to entitle himself to naturalization,
under the act of congress. Contemplating a circuitous voyage
from America to England,and thence to the East-Indies, he applied to Messrs. Willings and Francisto procure a ship for him ;
and those gentlemen agreed absolutely with Mr. Thomaw Mfur,gatroyd,for the purchase of the ship Mlount Vernon, owned bvhlim;
the bill of sale being made out, and delivered to them, upon terms
of payment precisely ascertained. It, then, however, occurred to
Mr. Duncanson, that as he had not yet acquired the rights of
.American citizenship, he could not enjoy the advantages, which
he proposed to derive from his projected voyage. For, the trade
from England to the East-Indies is, by the law of that kingdom,
a monopoly; no British subject can, individually, embark init,
without incurring a forfeiture of his vessel and cargo; though it
has recently been adjudged in England,that an American citizen
is entitled to carry on the trade, by virtue of express stipulations
in the treaty of amity and commerce between the United States
(1) This introductory statement of the facts, is transcribed from the charge
ofthe Court, in the action brought upon a police: of insurance, on the AfMroun.
Vernon. 3 .Dall.Rep. 491. Upon more mature consideration, the opinion there
delivered, was over-ruled in the present cause, by the same Court; nnrl,
was,
virtually, condemned in the Circuit Court of the United States, where an action of replevin had been first instituted, in the name of"murgatroydv.
L'.Lure.
See post. The name of Mr. Duncanson was now used, without his knowledge,
or consent, for the benefit, it was suggested, of the underwriter', who had
paid a total loss, under the former decision, and Messrs Willingw,
a"
nd,
who were in advance fur the outfits of the ship. It %%asobjected, that the
names ofthe real parties should zmppear on the record. but the .l,ertion v a.not sustained by the C6urt.

30

SUPRE.tIL COURT OF PENNISYL17ANIA.

P.nd Great-Britain.(2) Hence it was deemed necessary to enter 180,1.
upon another operation. The bill of sale was sent back, and a
new contract was formed between the parties, upon these principles: that Mr. .Murgatroydshould remain the owner of the
.ship, and as such retain the register and make the insurance; (3)
that she should, however, be delivered to Mr. Duncanson, or
his agents; that Messrs. Willings and Francis should procure a
freight for her on Mr. Duncanson's account; that Mr. il3itrgatroyd should empower Mr. SAirrow (a gentleman who went as
a passenger) to assign and transfer the ship to Mr. Duncanson in
England,on the 1st of September ensuing, at which time Mr.
Duncanson would be duly naturalized as an Amer.can citizen;
and that the consideration money should be secured by the notes
of Messrs. Wii/ings and Francis, payable, at all events, in certain
instalments."
The .1funt Vernon sailed trom Philadelphiaon the 10th of
june 1796, with the usual documents of an Amcrican vessel..
As soon as she had cleared the capes of the Delazare, she was
boarded and taken possession of by " the F lying Fi.yh," a French
privateer, and carried into the port of St. 7ohn, in the Sanish
island of Porto Rico. While she remained there, the ship and
,:rgo were libelled by the captors, in the Provisional Tribunal of
Prizes, at the city of St. Domingo, in the island of St. Doming1o;

a Court established by the republic of France in that cit,-, for the
determination of questions of prize. And on the 30th of August
1796, after various proceedings, the following sentencd was pronounced, by the Court:
" Thirteenth Fructidor,fourth year.
Condemnation of the Znglish ship M1ount PVernon.
" Extract from the books of the office of the provisional tri.
bunal respecting prizes established in St. Donin.o.
We Francis1,n', Judge of the provisional tribunal respecting prizes established in St. Domingo, having looked over our
" sentence of the seventh Thernzidor last, where all the papers
exhibited by citizen

-'

Kctdal, captain of the privateer Flier,

against the ship 01ount V7ernon, are duly noticed, through
which we had submitted the decision of this prize to the civil
'-'commission of Guai-ico, which applies again to our tribunal
C"br pronouncing sentence on this subject; having noticed also
" instructions which were officially given us by the citizen agent
" of the French .Republic in tiffs
city, issued by the civil corn' mission aforesaid, in whose archives they have been duly re'

(2) See 8 T. Bep. 31.
(3) The premium of insurance, however, was paid by Mr. Duncanson; the
ship actually s.iled on the foyage insured at his risque; and the recovery
:ggainst the underwriters (3 DalL.Rep. 491.) was applied to the reimbursemernt
of the purchase money-, paid by -e-srs. 4iiing, and Frandiron account of Mr.
Dunc.rn.

0- cordedt

C.Asr~s RutED

010
1801.
.

AN.D ADjvDG;ED IN THY,

corded, from which it appears, first, that the papers having beeii
" thrown into the sea by the captain in sight of the privateer
"which captured him, secondly, that the captain aid supercargo
"having precipitately abandoned their ship, in spite of the good
"treatment received by them from the French captain, and the
"hints he gave them about remaining there in order to plead
, their own cause, and thereby avoid her confiscation, thirdly,
" the behaviour of the captured crew, fourthly, the captain being
"a Portuguttesc, without a certificate of his naturalization, fifthly,
" that the United States, in the last treaty which they concluded
" with Bngland,having suffered to be added to the articles which
" have been looked upon till at-present as contraband of var,
staves, tackles, sail-cloth, iron hoops, and finally all which can
"be made use of for vessels, are sufficient motives to condemn
said ship; after a serious examination we have judged and do
C

"judge that the ship Afount Vernon, captain George Dominico,

Portugveze, with her cargo, has been duly'and justly captured
"by the French privateer commanded by citizen Nadul, to whom
" we adjudge her as property belonging to him, and of which
"he may dispose under the clauses and conditions made with
"his officers and crew, he being accountable for the duties of
" invalids and the costs of the .tribunal, which he shall pay to
" the bearer of our'notary's order. Santo Domingo, Fructidor
" thirteenth (August thirtieth). Fourth year of the French Republic, one and indivisible. Signed in the Register, Ports Judge,
"and Despzqjeaux Notary Public.
" (Signed)
Pois Judge.
"Despqjeaux Notary."
Under this sentence of condemnation, the Alount Vernon and
her cargo were delivered to the captors by the ,SPaish governor
of Porto Rico, with permission to sell them there. At the public
"

sale, Rous'reau, a naturalized ilmerican, purchased the ship; and
afterwards sold her for 22,000 dollars, to ilI'Lure,the present defendant, an American citizen, who brought her to lhi/add/hia.
A replevin was then issued for the ship, in the name of Jlhirr"a-

".roijd,from the Circuit Court, for the Penns!vawnia district; but
it appearing on the trial, that efurqatroydhad received payment
of all the notes, which Messrs. Wiiihus and Francis gave for
the purchase money, the CouRT declared, that he had no property in the ship, to maintain a replevin; and directed a nonsit.
[n consequence of that defeat, the present action of trover was
brought in the name of Mr. Duncanson.
The cause was arg~ied, at great length, upon the 1ilowing

general points: (4)

1s.t. Whether

(4) The trial of the cause, first came on, in March term 1804; but after all
the evidence iias heard, and part of the arguments of counsel, some of th
jury

SUPREME COURT o

PENNSYLVANIA.

311

*st. Whether the ship Mount Vernon, at the time of her sail- 1804.
ing and capture, was the bona fide property of
ifurgatroyd, a
citizen of the United States; or was only registered and held in
his name, in trust for Duncanson, an alien.
2d. Whether the capture of the lfount Vernon was a lawful,
or a piratidal act; considering the commission of the privateer,
and the circumstances of the capture.
3d. Whether the French Court, established at St. Domingo,
was a competent tribunal, to decide, in this case, the question of
prize, or no prize; the city of St. Domingo then belonging to
Spain, or not being surrendered to France; the ship lying in a
Spanish port, at another island, belonging to Spain; and the
United States being at peace, both with France and Spain.
In relation to these points, the plaintiff's counsel contended,
1st. That the property of the M11ount Vernon confinued iniffur.
gatioyd,'until the power 'was executed by Skirrow; or, at least,
until the last of the instalments of the purchase money was actually paid; that the execution of the power, being prevented by
superior force, capture, and detention, ought not to affect the
original rights and interests of the parties; that the contract with
Duncanson was merely executory (a species of contract recognised by the law) and until the specified event had actually occurred, to wit, an arrival in England,and a transfer by Siirrowz,
no property could vest; and that there was no fraud upon belligcrent rights, no violation of neutral duties, in .the formation, or
affirmance of such a contract. 2 Pow. oil Contr. 79. 3 Dail.Rep.
491. Adnz. Inst. 218. 2 Journ. Cong. 114. 3 Rob. 24. 31. 39.
Treaty bet-ween. the United States and France (1778) 1 vol. Acts
Cong.p. 378. art. 6. 15. 21. 23.
d. That the capture of the Mount Vernon was piratical; for it
is piracy, not only when a man robs without any commission at
all, but when, having a commission, he despoils those whom he
is not warranted to fight, or meddle with;" such as are in alliance,
july stated to the Court, that they felt themselves embarrassed from the de-

cla'ation of three of their brethren, " that, consistently with their religious
priciples, iid conscientious scruples, they could, not, uider any circum" stances of proof, or any course of reasoning, find a verdict in favour of the
.ialy, who cl~med the ship, under a condemnation as prize of war." It was
wilhed, nuboth sides, to reconcile the objecting jurors, to the discharge of a
public dnty, in which their consciences ouiht to be governed by the law of the
land, and ilot by personal considerations: but evet'y effort being ineffectual for
"hat purpose,' the CoVr" observed, that they could not, on thle one hmd,
exercise the oppression of coercing a juror to act in contradiction to his real
religious, and conscientious scruples; nor, on the other, would they Cxpose
the defindant to the consequences of a trial, in which he might lose, but
could not possibly obtain, a verdict. Lamenting that so much time had been
consumed before notice ,uthe objection, the Court directed a juror to he
withh'rawn.

312

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IR THE

1804. or friendship, with that state, which has given him his commission.,
2 Woodes. 422. That at the time of the capture, the UnitedStates
k
and Francewere in alliance and friendship; and, therefore, it Was
piracy even in a French commissioned vessel to seize, spoliate,
and sequester, _A1merican property. And that whenever the piratical taking is succinctly ascertained, it becomes a clear and indisputable consequence, that there is no transmutation of property;"
no right to the spoil vests in the piratical captors; no right is
derivable from them to any re-captors, in prejudice of the original owners. Ibid. 429. 9.
3d. That capture, without condemnation, does not work a
change of property. 2 Burr. 693. 2 Doll. Rep. 5. That a condemnation to be la'Wful, must be pronounced by a Court of the
captor, in the country of the captor, or of a co-belligerent. 1 Rob.,
Sir [Vin. Scott and AMr. iVicholl's letter to Mr. yay. That neither
the island of Porto Rico, to which the ship was canied, nor the
city of St. Domingo, where the condemnation was pronounced,
belong to the country, or jurisdiction, of the captor; nor were
Franceand Spain allies in the war, at the time of the capture.
5 vol. Debr. Col. Stat. Pap. 18-21. That foreign judgments
may be inquired into, wherever the Court, pronouncing them,
has not jurisdiction of the subject, on principlesof the law of nations, as well as on principles of the common law. 2 Stra. 1078.
Doug. 1. Park, 353. (4 edit.) 1 Rob. 114. 3 Dall. Rep. 15.
2 Rob. 174. 3 Rob. 53. 3 Rob. 82. Doug. 555. Parh, 363. 7 T.
Rep. 523. 2 S5how. 232. 1 Emerig. 232. 438.
In relation to the general points of the cause, the defendant's
.counsel contended,
1st. That the case exhibits a manifest violation of the registering act;. and militates against the duty of a neutral character,
by masking the real property of a belligerent alien. That the act.
of congress not-only prohibits all open, avowed, ownership of ant
alien, in a registered vessel of the United States; but every species of secret or latent ownershin in the ship, and her issues and
profits, " by way of trit.t, conqkdence, or other-wise." 2 vol. 131.
&.1. s. 2. s,. 4. s. 7. st~ 16. (&Oift s edit.) I vol. 79. s. 6. (Child's edit.'s
That an ownergfhp in trust, could never be mol-e strongly characterised: 'for, the ship was bought for him, and the price wai.
paid by him, through his agents; she was insured at his charge;
she sailed at hIis risque; and an agent name'd by him, was ro5sessed of an ,bsolute power to transfer her to him. That the contract was not executoryjin'the sense contended for; as the intention was to pass an immediate right of pioliert., an absolute usufructuary enjoyment, keeping back the formal title only for a specific, unlawful, purpose;.as there was no covenant to convey,d,-pending on any eyent, but -an absolute power and mandate to tr.,nsl'er;
as there was no Mutuality, the price being payable at all events,
and

SUPRrIE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

3I3

and .inrgatroyd was never again capable of sharing in the profit 1804.
or loss of the ship. That the property was so changed, at the time L
of sailing, that the ship would have been liable as Duncanson's
to execution and attachment, and to the statutory assignment of
the insolvent, or the bankrupt, law. That if such a mask could secure impunity, in violating the registering act, aliens, and particularly belligerent aliens, would soon be the owners of a great
portion of the American tonnage. iifaybin v. Coulon. ant. 5 T.
Rep. 112. 3 Dall. Rel. 495. 3 Rob. 243. (a) 4 Rob. 91. 93. 95.
That, indee j,in every aspect of the cause, an Anzerican common

laiw court ought not to interpose: not, if it is a breach of our
navigation laws; not, if it is a cover of belligerent property; not,
ifDuncanscn is an Eng'lishmnan; and not if it is a question of
prize, which is exclusively of admiralty cognizance. 2 Rob. 111.
114. Me.'k. 359. 1 111ag. 437. 3 Rob. 269. 2 Dall. Rep. 165.
-I.T. Rep. 382. 3 Dall. Rep. 6. 3 Dall.Rep. 25. 32. 7 T: Re1.
(;96. 8 T. Rep. 444. Par.', 71. 2 Dali. 4. 2 Burr. 693,'4. 2 Dall.
1.ip. 2-0.
2d. That the capturing privateer had a lawful commission
from the French republic; captured the Mount Ve'rnon as prize,
on the high seas; and sent her for adjudication to a Court, established by the nation of the captor. Such a capture may be
tortious, but it can never be piratical. In the present instance,
however, the appearances at the time, and the result of subsequent investigation, must equally justify the proceeding: for, it'
ic now notorious, that the Jlfount-kVernon was an English owned
ship, going to a belligerent port, and with false papers, describing a false destination. If, then, .Dt1aCWsonz was the owner of
the ship, and was an enemy of FPranre, who had not acquired the
rights of neutral domicil, the capture was lawfal; and the Courts
of this country could not interfere, before condemnation; nor, a
ftrtiori, can they interfere after condennatioi and sale. Iatt. b.
.3. c. 14. s. 208. p. 583.
-ad. That the city of St. Domwingo was either to he considered as
belonging to 'rance, under the cession of the treaty between her
,nd .5pain; or as the country of Ypain, .an ally of France, on the
eve of engaging in the war against Great Britain. Treatyt oJ 22
Yuzy 1795, art. 9. That the French constitution hrid regarded
the cession as complete, and the legislature of France had actually divided the Spanish side of St. Domingo into departments.
(.onst. art. 3. That Great Britain, in her manifesto, had, also,
considered the cession from Spain to Franci as absolute. Metv
AnnualReg. p. 121. 1796. That a recurrence to dates will satisf-ctorily show.the relative situation of France, Spa.hi, .ld England. 3n the co-operation of the two former in hostilities against"
the last. Thus; the ,1ount Vernon was taken on the 9th of 7une,
carried into Porto Rico on the 4th of 'hil.t, condemned at St.
l.)omingo on the 30th of August, pold on the 26th of October
Vi.. IV.
2 S
1796,

314
t

CASEs$RULED

AND ADJUDGED T? THE

1804. 1796, and kept under embargo until the 27th of May 1797. A
tre.,ty of alliance between France and Spain, was signed on die
19th of Aztgust, and ratified on the 6th of September 1796, in
which a joint war with England is contemplated; and, accordingly, on the 5th of October 1796, Spain published a declaration
of war. Thus, when the Mount Vernon was captured and condemned, Franceand Spain were in alilance, with a view to a war
against England; and the joint war was actually declared and
waged, while the ship remained within the territory :nd Fo e
of the allies. That, independent of the qu,stion of alliance and
hostility, neither the place of condemnation, nor the place where
the ship lay, can avail the plaintiff, if Spain permits, and England
does not complain. That the institution of Courts for prize
causes, in countries not belonging to the captors, nay, in neutral
countries, has been practised, as well as recognised by England;
and has been practised as well as recognised by America. 2 Eas.t,
473. 2 Rob. 174. 4 Rob. 34, 5. 44. Carth. 474. 2 Danv. AIr.
269. p1. 8. 2 .rownL 11. 29. Godb. 386. Parhe, 353. 5 vol.
Yourn. Cong. 4,j. (30 tov. 1779.) ochzin. 708.
The COURT delivered a long and elaborate charge to the jury,
on the two principal points in the cause. 1st. They expressed
considerable doubt, whether the condemnation of 'the Mount
Vernon was pronounced by a competent Court; inasmuch as the
ship was not within the jurisdiction of the country of the captors;
as the evidence did not satistactorily prove, that France had
taken possession of St. Dzomingo, in pursuance of the treaty of
cession; and as Spain and Francedid not appenr to be actually
allies in the war, at the time of the capture and condemnation.
2d. But they were clearly and decidedly of opinion, th:,t the
charge delivered in the case of Ofurgatroyd v. Cr-auford(3 Dall.
Rep. 491.) was erroneous and untenable.' Acknowledging and
retracting, therefbre, with candour, the error which they had
then committed, they declared that the verdict must be in favour
of the defendant; inasmuch as the plaintiff's claim to the ship
was founded upon a transaction, in fraud of the positive laws and
public policy of the United States, which exclude an alien, from
any degreic of interest in an American registered vessel, by wray
of trust, confidence, or otherwisL.
Notwithstanding the explicit decision and direction of the
Court, one of the jurors refused, during four days, to concur in
a general verdict for the defendant; declaring, in open Court,
" that althoqgh he stood alone, he would only lay down his
1 opinion wi Ii his life: for, he never could consent to cast the
"property 'if the ship upon the defendant, through the medium
' of such a capture and condemnation." At length, the form of
a spec;al verdict was submitted to the jury, by each side; and
,he jury doLpted and returned the formt'prepared by the defendant's counsel.
When

'SiPRPM-E

COURT OV PENNSYLVANIA.

When the special verdict was brought before the Court,- for 1804.
argument, at December term 1804, the d, fendant moved for a
new trial, on the ground, that although the facts were sufficiently
found, for a judgment, on the point of a breach of the acts of
congress; they were not sufficiently found to enable this Court,
or the High Court of Errors and Appeals, to decide upon the
objections to the condemnation, hecause St. Doningo was Spanish territory, v-ithin which a French prize Court was not competent to act; and because the ship was not within the jurisdiction
of St. D.;ningo, but at Porto Rh'o, when she was condemned.
Besides, in an action of trover, the jury are bound to give the
actual Value of the property if th'v find for the plaintiff; and in
this case they have given only prime cost of 22,000 dollars on
the sale to the defendant; whereas the value, according to the
only evidence before the jury, was 40,000 dollars.
After repeated arguments, the COURT determined that the
Yacts were not sufficiently found, on the whole case; and, although
they adhered to their opinion, as delivered in the charge, in justice to the plaintiff, who had a right to a writ of error, as well as
in' consilderatio of the impoetance of the decision, it became necessary and proper to award
A new trial. (5)
(5) Y .TES, :/UStiCe,l)tlught that enough was fond, upon the special vetdict, to give jIdgment 'brIthe dei'miclant, on the paramount, and controuling,
qucestiol; of a iolation of tile acts of congress. He was, therefrbe, opposed
to a new trial, though the lfacts on the other qucstion:s were, he admitted,
defectively fiund, ansd lhough lie did not approve of the estimate of the
daimages, for which no evidence had been adduced at the trial. ,
SMI i'i and 13hc',V"-'Vae., .7,3tice, however, pronowced the decisiono

the Coor.-

