SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1803.
Sharpless versus Welsh et al.
SCIRE FACIAS against 7ohn Welsh, Redman Byrne, and the
Bank of the United States, garnishees in a foreign attachment, issued by the plaintiff against A. Moore, of Charleston.
The facts were these: Moore, being indebted to several persons
in Philadelphia, remitted to Redman Byrne, a bill of exchange,
dated the 13th of November 1800, drawn by .oseph Byrne, m
favour of Redman Byrne, on 7ohn Welsh, at 60 days sight, for
1700 dollars; saying; in the letter that inclosed the bill," I will" send the duplicate, in a few days, with directions what to dd
" with it." Accordingly, on the 22d of November, he wrote
again to Byrne, ordering the following disposition of the bill:
.....
.
70h
" To Martin Bernard ...
"To Moore, surviving partner of Goldthwaite . 29 Dollars.
" To Yesse Sharpless
4........400
Dollars.
3o Dollars.
"To M Shiels.
..........
400
" To Robert Campbell .............
"The balance to be divided equally between Mr. Cart and
'Mk'Gofn."
0

Soon after the receipt of his letter, Byrne showed it to the
plaintiff, and, also, to Yohn Shields; told each of them of the appropriations; and promised to pay each the sum specified, when
the cash should be received. And, on the 26th of December
1800, he wrote to Moore, that the bill "should be disposed of,
" as his last letter directed." Subsequent to these communications, the plaintiff issued a foreign attachment, on which the present scirefacias is grounded. Byrne informed Mfoore, of the occurrence, and called for instructions, on the 8th of 7anuary
1801;

2W

CASES RULED AND AIJUtDGED IN THE

1803. 1801; and on the 6th of February following, Moore answered,
._ I would rather, if by any means you could have it done, that
"Sharpless should be got to put up with 8 or 900 dollars; and
"the rest to be paid to the other people mentioned, as far as it"
"will go." But Byrne, conceiving himself bound to pay, according to the first appropriation, did not mention this proposition to Sharpless. In the meantime, the bill of exchange, which
had been accepted on the 28th of November, was regularly pro.
tested for non-payment; Welh assigning the attachment, as the
cause of his refusal to pay.
On the trial of the cause, it was contended, for the plaintif,
that the property in the bill continued to be Moore's, at the time
of the attachment; and that the creditors had acquired no lien
upon it. 4 Burr. 2174. The letter of appropriation, is nothing
more than a private order, to pay the money, when it was received; and Modre had a power to revoke, or alter it (as, in fact,
he did, in his letter of the 6th of February)at any time before
actual payment to the creditors.
But it was insisted, by the counsel for the defendants, that the
letter of the. 22d of November, amounted to an irrevocable appropriation and transfer of the fund; that Pyrne became a trustee,
for the creditors named in the letter; and that the trust.fund
was not liable to .a foreign attachment. Anibl. 297. 1 Atk. 124.
2 Atk. -207. 1 F. ,ez. 280. 1 Vez. 331, 2. 1 East. 550. 5 T. Rep.
215. 494.
By the COURT: (1) The plaintiff had a legal right to institute
the attachment, which cannot be divested, by any irregular attempts to obtain a preference, from the trustee himself. The
only-question is, whether the fund attached, can be regarded,
under the circumstances of this case, as the property of Moore?
The facts are few, but powerful. Moore remits the bill to
B.yrnc, with express directions to apply the money, to the payment of specific creditors in P!iladelphia; and Byrne undertakes to do so. Independent of the communication to the plain.
tiff, Byrne mentioned the general appropriation to Shields, with
a direct and positive promise, to pay Shields his proportion of
the money.
Under these circumstances, it is clear, that there could be no
revocation of the appropriation, in favour of Shield%; to whom
Byrne himself had become responsible: but the doubt arises,
as to the situation of those creditors, who had received no inti.
mation of the remittance. If, indeed, no notice had been given
to any of the creditors, we do not think that any of the creditors
(1) The cause. was triec at M6j Pri, PAhiladelphia, or, the 16th of fune
before SMITrH and BRACKENRIDGE, UtieC.

'803,

%yould

.2&1 -

SUPREMIE COURT or PErNSSYlVA$IA.

.would have acquired a vested interest in the fund, by the terms 1803.
of the correspondence between Afoore and B~yrne. - But it is a
material fact, for the consideration of the jury, that the plaintiff
received information, not only of his own apportionment, but of
the distributive shares of all the creditors; and that he never
objected to this appropriation of the fund, until he issued his attachment. If thejury shall think, from this fact, that the plaintiff
ratified, or acquiesced, in the distributive appropriation; the aw
will not permit him, afterwards to monopolize the fund, in the
way, that the present suit contemplates.
BrtA cKENrIUDGE, 7ustice. The equity of the case izstrongly
in favour of the defendants; but I find it difficul to surmount
the strict rules of law, as to those creditors, who, receiving no
notice, acquired no right. The creditors who received notice,
and assented to the appropriation, had clearly a vested interest. But, I incline to think, the law in favour of.the creditors stops there; unless the fact is sufficiently asceriafned, to
satisfy the jury, that the plaintiff, by his conduct, approved
and assented to the whole appropriation, after he was fully apprised of it. That fact, the important one in the cause, if found
affirmatively, by the jury, must be decisive in favour of the defendants.
On the day, succeeding that, upon which the charge was delivered, the jury returned to the bar, and declared, that theycould not agree upon a verdict; proposing, at the same time,
several legal questions, for the solution of the Court.
But SttTYI, usrtice, observed, that it would, probably, extricate the jury froni their embarrassment, as well as relieve his
own mind, to infbrm them, that since the adjournment, he had
entirely changed his opinion, upon the principal legal point in the
cause. He said, that he had always thought it more honourable
to retract an erroneous opinion, when the error was discovered,
than to persist in it, upon the suggestions of a false and pernicious
pride. He then declared, that on full reflection and research,
during the -recess, he had been convinced, that from the time of
receiving .tfoore'"letter, ordering specific payments, to the enumerated creditors, Byrne became a trustee fbr those creditors;
and that the creditors thereupon acquired such an interest in the
trust fhnd, as could not be divested, or affected by the plaintiff's
attachment. (1).
The jury, having again retired, soon agreed upon a verdict,
in favour of the plaintiff, for 400 dollars; being the sum to which
lie was entitled by the.original appropriationof the bill of exchange.
(1) BReucKPKIDG . fusthee, expressed no opinion upon this occasion;
but seemed, silently, to assent to the statement now made by Judge $) *-.-.

VoL. IV.

20

The

