SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

December Term 1804.
Conmnonwealth "OcrsusFranklin ez al.
FrI"HE gncral question, upon the constitutionalit 7of the intru.1. sion act (3 .State Lines, 703. Dall. edit.) having been detided at the last term,' in the affirmative, this case came again
.before the Court, upon the remaining exceptions in arrest of
judgment, as they are stated ante, p. 257.; but the counsel for
the defendants abandoned the third and fourth, and the argument and decision turned entirely upon the sixth and seventh,
exceptions.
For the cfindants.. If the cause was never ptnding in the
Circuit Court, as the sixth and seventh exceptions allege, all the
proceedings there, are, of course, coram non judice; and the
judgment must be arrested. 'rhese exceptions will, therefore, be
first considered. Then, 1st, The certiorariis directed to a wrong
Court. 2d. It is returned by unauthorised judges. 3d. It does
not describe and identify the indictment, which is annexed to
the return.
!st. The Courts of Quarter Sessions, and of Common Pleas,
are Courts of distinct, and independent, jurisdiction; though the
same judges officiate in both Courts. Each. has its own seal, its
own record, and its own clerk; and the subjects of their cognizance are essentially different; the one relating to *criminal
prosecutions; and the other to civil suits. Const. art. 5. s. 1. 7.
4 T. Rep. 499. 1 Bac. dbr. .572, 573. 2 Hazv- P. C. c.2f.
Z.80, 81. 72.

2d. The return is made by the.associate Judges of the Comino4 Pleas, to the Judges of the Supreme Court, and not to the
J:udcs of the Supreme Court sitting as a Circuit Court. And
the

C: mrs

RULrD AND ADJUDGED, &C.

i'e atho ites already cited, show that a writ wrong directed,
,"ru rong returned, will remove nothing.
3d. The indictment consists of t.vo distinct cou~nts, ccnainin.
•wo distinct charg-, ofi two distinct offences. Three of the dcrndants only are iinplicated in the charge of the first count: anJ
".etthe certi5,,'r dirccts the removal of an indictment against
ihe four defendants for both offences. This is not such an indictment,
tnd,therefore, the proper record has never been removed. 2 Ld. Ray:,z. 1199. 1 I.d. Raym. 609. 2 EUwk. c. 27.
82. 2 Ld. Raym. 1803.
,'r the convnOJ2,ealth. The pracipe for the removal of the
:ndictment, was written by the counsel of the delendant; thu
c,-tiorari was worded conformably to the priecwpe; the writ was
specially allowed, and issued, at the instance of the defendants:
and, yet, the defendants endeavour now to defeat the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, by the irregularity of their own process. It is
a general rule, in civil cases, that no man shall take advantage of
his own wrong. In criminal cases, too it is a rule, that errors in
form shall be taken advantage of as soon as is reasonable after
they occur, or a waiver of the advantage shall be inferred; and
an indictment may be removed, without certiorari,by delivery
of the Justices, 15er manu propria. Here, the defendants appeared gratis, and never objected to the imputed errors, for a year
after their trial. kawk. B. 2. c. 27. s. 102. 2 Stra. 843. 2 F-ale,
213. 2 Id. Raym. 1518, 9.
But, independent of this general course of reasoning and authority, the certiorari -s well directed and returned. The true
designation and official style of the Judges must be "Judges of
the Court of Common Pleas;" for, their commissions are only
in that character; and "Judges of the Court of Quarter Sebsions," is a style of office unknown to the constitution and laws.
The certiorariis directed "to the Judges of the Court of Common pleas, for Luzerne county, and every of them, to remove
"the indictment depending before them, or some of them."
'Now, the indictment must have been depending before them, or
some of them, sitting as a Court of Quarter Sessions. The only
t- of a description is,. to ascertain the 1 erson required to do ant
act; and here the description does ascertain the persons, wh6
composed the Court of Quarter Sessions; who are, therefore,
the persons, before whom the indictment was .found; who ought
to transmit the record to the superior Court; and who have suficientlv done so, by returning it to the Judges of the Supreme
Court, those Judges being the constituent members of the Cir*
cuit Court, sitting in the county of Luzerne.
Nor is the objection to the description of the indictment more
Nalid, than the objection to the description of the Judges. The
certiqraridoes not, in fact, call for the removal of an indictment
zi, .inst

31,

180-.

.18

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1804. against four persons for two offences; but it issued "to remove
"an
"s indictment for combining and conspiring for the purpose of
" conveying, possessing, and settling on lands, &c. And also for
"combining -and conspiring for the purpose of laving out town"ships, &c. wherein the commonwealth is plaintiff, and 7ohn
C' Franklin, Elisha Satterlee, 7ohn .enkins, and 7oseph Biles,
" are defendants:" that is to say, an indictment wherein the
commonwealth is plaintiff, and those four persons are defendants,
although it may contain a count, in which three only are charged;
and an indiciment which does, indeed, charge two offences to
have been committed, though three of the defendants committed
the first, and all of them committed the second. Even, however,
suppose, that the certiorarihad described an indictment against
four persons, when only three were, in fact, indicted; yet, the
record being transmitted, and the three persons indicted, actually
appearing, and being tried, there can be no injustice, or irregularity in the proceeding. 4 Vin. Abr. 337. (B. -.) p1. 2. 1 Roll.
Abr. 395. 4 Fin. Abr. 338. pl. 6. in note. Ibid.pl. 7. 2 H. H.
P. C. 214. 4 T. .Rep. 499.
SHIP? EN, Chief _7ustice. The objection to'the direction of the
certiarariis fatal. The power and cognizance of the Judges of
the Court of Common Plenis, do not extend to criminal cases.
Those Judges are, indeed, ex olcio, members of another Court,
which possesses a criminal jurisdiction; but, when sitting there,
they are Judges of the Court of Quarter sessions, not of the
Common Pleas.
I am, also, inclined to think, that a certiorari,calling for the
removal of an indictment against four, generally, will not remove
an indictment, which charges only three persons, in 6ne of its
counts. It it true, that the Circuit Court may obtain the removal and cognizance of an indictment, as well upon the delivery of the record, by"one of the Judges of the Court of Quarter
Sessions, per propria manu, as upon the return to a certiorari.
The present case, however, rests upon the authority of the writ;
and, though it is not without doubt, I am disposed to hold, that
not only the direction and the return are irregular; but that the
body of the writ is defective, in the description of the indictment
to be removed.

YEATES, yutice. The authdrities cited for the commonwealth
are in point, to show that the certiorarifor the removal of an indict-ent against four, is sufficiently descriptive, to remove an
"ndictrent against three only, under such circumstances, as appear upon the present occasion. My only difficulty, therefore,
arises from the direction and the, return of the writ; which, on
a question of jurisdiction, in a criminal case, must, I think, be
-eemed ftatlly irregular.
SItki .

319

SUPRrME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

S-MITH, 7ustice. I have hitherto declined taking any pait in 1804.
the judicial proceedings against the defendants; because, I am
personally interested in the lands, on which, it is charged, they
h:tve unlawfully intruded. But as my opinion is fiavourable to
them, on thq present point, I will not abstain from delivering it.
The last objection is fatal, I think, to the proceedings. The
direction of, the certiorariwas to the Judges of a wrong Court;
and the return of the writ is, also, made by the judges of a wrong
Court. The Judges of the Court of Common Pleas never had
cognizance of the indictment; nor could they have any power
over the record of the Court of Quarter Sessions, to transmit it
to the Circuit Court. The trial was, therefore, coran non jud;*c.

Judge BRAcrMNRIDGE and myself determined the same point,

the same way, in Centre county, upon the removal of an indictmont by the commofiwealth.
BRACKrNRIDGr, Fztstice. Having already decided
qut sti.n, in the case referred to by Judge S3ArxTH, it
cessary to add, that I have heard nothing, upon the
casion, to induce me to change my opinion.
Judgment

the leading

is only nepresent ocarrested.

