450.

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. actuallydecided,whichwasvery different from that we are nowconL-y-J sidering. Some period mustbefixed fordeterminingthe right of the

parties. To limit it to the time of commencing the actibnwould be
of little service to the insurers; for the law being once so established, an action would be brought in every instance on the first
default of payment. The time of abandonment seems the most
natural and convenient period; because the assured must make
his election to abandon or not, in a reasonable and short time after
he hears of the loss, and the property, being transferred by the
abandonment, can never after be reclaimed by the assured. Want
of mutuality is want of justice. There is no reason why the assured should be bound, but the assurer left free, to take advantage
of events subsequent to the abandonment.
It has been contended by the plaintiff's counsel, that the right
to abandon would not have been affected, even if the property had
been restored at the time of abandonment, because the restitution
was unknown to the plaintiff. As to this, I give no opinion. It is
unnecessary; because it is stated that the vessel remained in the
custody of the captors at the time of abandonment. The defendant's counsel iave urged, that this was the fault of the captain, or
of one of ihe owners, who was at in.v-Providence;because, after
a dcc.ree of acqtuittal, a writ of restitution might have been sued
out. But it not being stated, that there was any fault or negligence in the captain or owner, I do not think that the Court can
infer it. It being stated that the vessel remained in the custody
of tlhe captors, we mlist presume that the custody was legal.
"Whether for the purpose of giving the captors an opportunity of
entering an appeal, or for what other purpose it was that the restitution was delayed, we are at a loss to determine. But, as restitution
was not actually made, and as the plaintiff was ignorant, even of
,he decree of acquittal, his right to abandon remained unimpaired.
.Upon the whole,
loss.are of opinion, that theplaintif is entitled
totalwe
P.? recover for a
Judgment for the plaihtiff. (1)
Moliere's Lessee versus Noe.

EJECTMENT
for a house and lot in Union street, between
Second and Third streets. The plaintiff's title was briefly
this: George Fudge *as seised of the premises in the year 1796;
when 3"loliere, as the assignee of one Weston, instituted three suits
(1) Since the decision of this case, the case of Rhinelanderv. The In:urance
Company oft'ennVyioania, was arguedin the Supreme Courtofthe UnitedState:,
at Wa:hington, in Februaryterm 1807, upon a writ of error from the Circuji Court
ofthe .Pennmyloaniadistrict; andthat Court (consisting of MAnSHALL, Chiefauxrice, CHASE, JOHNSTONE, and LVIVoSTO E, f,7tice3) were ofopinion, Ihat in
the case of neutr, as well as of belligerent, property, the assured has a right
to abandon, and to claim for a total loss, as soon as the vessel is arrested,

T1en
i
tosession of, and carried out of the c..rse of her voyage.

against

SUPRESIE COURT OF PENNSYLVANia.

45,'

against him, upon several bondsi returnable to March term 1796, 1806.

in which judgments were regularly obtained. Fudge died, and the
judgments were revived against his administrators, by writs of
scirefacias,returnable to December term 1799; judgments were
thereupon entered, on the 27th of De'ember; writs offi.fa. issued,
returnable the 28th of December, and were returned, "levied upol
"1real estate, inquisition held, and property condemned." On the
15th of _7anuary, a Vend. Exp. issued returnable to March term

1800, which was returned, that the premises had been sold to
2kfoliere for 1000 dollars; and on-the 3d of March 1800, sheriff
Penrose executed a deed tV the purchaser.
The defendant was tenant to Mary Beers, who claimed the
premises under a sale made by order of the Orphan's Court, upon
the petition of the administrators of Fudge; the intestate having
left two minor children. The petition was presented in May
1797, with a list of the creditors of the estate, in which Moliere's
judgments were referred t6; the order of the Orphan's Court was
made in rune 1797; the sale was effected in July; and the administrators executed a deed to Mrs. Beers, for the premises
(reciting the proceedings of the Orphan's Court) in consideration
of 1200 dollars, on the 10th of August 1797. Subsequent to the
sale, and receipt of the money, both of the administrators became
insolvent.
On the trial of the cause, at Nisi Prius. in Yu 1 1806, two
grounds of defence were taken, 1st. That oliere had allowed
Mrs. Beers to purchase and repair the estate, without giving her
notice of his claim, though he was apprised of the order of sale,
by the Orphan'g Court, and the proceedings under it. 2d. That
upon the sale of the estate, by order of the Orphan's Court, it
was discharged from all prior judgments, in the hands of the
purchaser. On the first ground, both the chief justice (who sat at
Nisi Prius) and the jury (as appeared from the charge, and the
verdict) were in favour of the plaintiff; and the second ground was
reserved for the decision of the Court in Bank.
The point reserved was argued on the 10th of Decenbe, 1806,
by Levy, "ZiKean,S. Levy, and Y. Sergeant, for the plaintiff, and
Ingersoll and Hophinson, for the defendant: and the following
sections of several acts of Assembly, became material in the discussion.
By the 6th section of the act of 1705 (1) (Galloway's edit. p.
34.) it is provided, "That if any person or persons shall die in" testate, being owners of lands or tenements within this province
" at the time of their death, and leave lawful issue to survive them,
" but not a sufficient personal estate to pay their just deb)ts and
41 maintain their children, in such case, it ",hall be lawful for di.:
(1) YE.v'r~s, .Itttice It has often been decmed, at .i
'd"
no miiuo h~ldren in the cat,"

this a,,. ie Orpian's Court migbht or.',:!' L 41 .

Pri s, th.t tunder

Iioirh there u cre

" administratoi

45

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. "1administrator or administrators of such deceased to sell and
t.r-.-J "convey such part or .parts of the said lands or tenements, for
"c defraying their just debts, maintenance of their children, and
"c for putting them apprentices, and teaching them to read and
"1write, and for improvement of the residue of the estate, if any
"c be, to their advantage, as the Orphan's Court of the county
CC
where such estate lies shall think fit to allow, order and direct,
4"from time to time."
By the 21st section of the act of April1 794, (3 vol. Doll. edit.
530.),it is provided, "that no lands, tenements, and hereditaments,
" so as aforesaid sold by the Orphan's Court, shall be liable, in
" the hands of the purchaser, for the debts of the intestate."
By the 2d section of the act of April 1794, (Ibid 523.) it is
provided, "cThat no debts. -of deceased persons, except they be
,1 secured by mortgage, judgment, recognisance, or other record,
"shall remain a lien on their lands and tenements, longer than
" seven years after the decease of such debtors, unless, &c."
By the 4th section of the act of April 1797. (4 Vol. 157. Dall.
Edit.) the same limitation is imposed on the lien of debts, unless
a suit is brought, or a statement of the demand filed in the office
of the prothonotary of the county where the lands lie, within the
seven years.
For the defendant, it was insisted, that, by'the act of April 1794,
the purchaser, 'under an order of the Orphan's Court, held the
land discharged of all the debts of the intestate, whether secured
by judgments, or not. The word debts includes judgizents; and
the legislature generally uses it, in that comprehensive sense.
Prov. Laws, (1785) 34. s. 3. 6. Ibid. 132. 3 St. L. 522. s. 1. 1b.
523. s. 1. 2. 1b; 529. s. 19. lb. 527. 4 St. L. 157. This construetion, however, does not extend to mprtgages which are a specific
lien created by the act of the party; but only to judgments, to
which, as the law gives the lien, the law may, also, take it away.
1 Dall.Rep. 481. 486. The words of the act are, then, clearly
in favour of the purchaser; and it is not incumbent upon him to
look to the application of the money. 9 Ann. c. 14. s. 1. Lov. on
B. 37. 2 Ti Rep. 645. 2 Fonbi. 153.
For the plaintiff,it was answered, that the object of the act of
1794, was to provide for the sale of real estate, in order to pay
debts at the instance of creditors, who had not obtainedjudgments,
and, therefore, could .not, themselves, coipel a sale of the land;
that from the year 170"5 to the year 1794, the sale was not accompanied with any condition, that the purchaser should hold the
land free from the debts of the intestate; and the inconvenience
to be remedied by that provision, arose from the latent claims.
referred to, in"1 Dall. Rep. 481. not from judgments, mortgages,
or other liens, of record; and that words, however general, must
often

4.53C

SUPREME COURT OV PENNSYLVANIA.

often be construed particular, in order to attain, without exceed- 1806.
ing, the real object of the legislature. 1 Dall.Rep. Levinz v. IVill.
1Plowd. 109. 305. 2 East, 135.
On the 20th of Decenber 1806, the chief justice delivered the
opinion of the Court, in the following terms:
TILGINNIAN, chdef 8ustce. This cause was tried before me at
a Court of Nisi Prius, held last .July,when the point was reserved, which is now to be decided. Without entering into an
unnecessary detail of facts, the question may be stated to be simply
this: whether the purchaser of lands of a deceased person, sold
by order of an Orphan's Court, since the 19th of April 1794, holds
them discharged from the lien of a judgment; obtained against
the intestate in his life.
Ever since the year 1705, the Orphan's Court have had power,
to order sale of such part oF the land of persons dying intestate,
as they judged necessary, for the payment of their debts, 'ducation and maintenance of their infanit children, and improvement
of theresidue of the estate. But it was not, until the passing of the
act of the 19th of April, 1794., (2) that any express provision was
made with respect to the manner in which the purchaser should
hold the land: I mean, -whether it should be liable or not, in his
hands, to the debts of the intestate. Yet, although there was no
legislative provision, the public mind had, probably, received an
impression from the sentiments of the late chief justice Shippen,
delivered, when he was president of the Court of Common Pleas,
in the case of Graffv. Smith's administrators.( ) The qiestion before the Court, in that case, did-not, it is true, regard u judgment
creditor; yet the expressions of the president are very generai,
and seem strongly to intimate an opinion, that the purchaser
should hold the lands discharged even from judlgments. I do not
mean, however, to say, that that point was decided. After thi.s
decision, in the year 1789. came the act of the 19th of APril 179-;,
which I shall now considcr.
(4)The 19th section gives the same power, which had been vested in the Orphan's Court, by the act of 1703 "hat i; to say, to ordei
Sale of such part of the lands, as they' should, from time to time,
think proper, for the payment cf debts, maintenance and education of children, and imrovel ent of the residue or the estate.
The 20th section forbids the Court to order a sale, until they
have ascertained, in the manner therein mentioned, the amount
of the intestate's personal estate, and of the ddbts due from him.
Tile 21st section declares, "1that no lands or tenements so as
" aforesaid sold, by order of the Orphan'sL Court, shall be liable
" in the hands of the purchaser,for the debts oJ'the intestatc.".
If we consider the plain meaning of these words, the land:;
thus sold, are discharged from the lien of judgments. I think no
man, learned or unlearned, would understand the word debts, as
A St 1. 521. (.X31 .Dat. 481. 486.

(4) 3 St. L

26.
excluding

454

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TIM

1806. excluding judgments. The counsel for the plaintiff do not. con,
-v--i tend so; but they argue; that although a judgment is a debt
(taking the word debt in its largest signification) yet, to avoid
great injustice and inconvenience, the legislature.must be supposed to have intended only those debts, which were not a lien, in the
life of the intestate. The avoidance of injustice, and inconvenience, is a most desirable object, and the Court will always strive
to attain it. But they must not overleap the bounds of their duty.
They have power to construe laws, but not to make, or alter them;
and where the meaning of the legislature is plainthe Court have no
right to regard inconveniencies. General expressions have sometimes been construed, so as to be restrained to particular cases;
but to authorise such construction, it must appear that the use of
the words, in their general sense, would produde absurdity, contradiction, or such flagrant injustice, as it could not be supposed
the legislature meant to sanction. Upon a careful examination of
the act in question, I cannot see that the discharge of the lands
from the lien of.judgment in the hands of the purchaser, will
produce any such consequences. No inconvenience will result, ii
the Orphan's Court and the administrator do their duty. The
lands will certainly sell better, for being discharged from liens;
and it makes no odds to the judgment creditors by what person
they are sold, provided they are sold fairly, and the proceeds
flithfully applied. I am clearly of opinion; that they must be applied to the payment, in the first place, of the liens which existed
in the life of the intestate, according to their respective priority.
There is no intimation in any part of the act, to the contrary, and
to say, that judgment creditors should not have a preference, in
the application of such procceds, would produce this monstrous
injustice, that those creditors would preserve the benefit of their
lien, in case a man made a will, but lose it if he happened to die
intestate.

Before I dismiss this subject, I will give my opinion concern
"ing debts due by mortgage, which were mentioned in the course
of the argument. I conceive them to stand on a different footing
1'rom judgments, because the mortgagee, is, strictly speaking, the
owner of the land, and may recover it in an ejectment. The mortgagor has no more than an e4uitv of iedemption; nor have the
Orphan's Court power to sell a gTeater estate than he is lawfully
possessed of. It will be seen, that in the 14th section of the act,
where the order in which debts shall be paid. is designated, there
is no mention of mortgages, which evi.dently shews that the legislature took it for granted, that the mortgagee looked to the land
for his security. The question now decided, is of importance to
the public, particularly as different opinions have been entertained concerning it. As it must henceforth be considered as settled,
I make no doubt but the Orphan's Court, in the several counties,
will use proper vigilance to prevent injury to judgment creditors.
They

SUPRE

x COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

455

They have full power to see that sales are made fairly, and with 1806.
due notice, and to exact security from the administrator, in proportion to the increased funds which may come to his hands.
These precautiors, assisted by the attention of the creditors to
their own interest, will, I flatter myself', produce sales to the greatest advantage, and faithful application of their proceeds.
MV opinion is, that the defendant, the purchaser at the sale
ordered by the Orphan's Court, holds the hind, discharged from
the plaintiff's judgment.
YEATES, yustice, who was present at the argument, informed
the chief justice that he concurred with this opinion; and
BRACKENRID GE, Yustice, expressed his concurrence, generally.
Judgment to be entered for the defendant.

Morgan et al. versus The Insurance Company of North
America.

T

HIS was an action upon a policy of insurance, on the freight
of the brig Amazon, valued at 3,500 dollars, upon a voyage
from Philadelphiato Surinam. The policy contained a warranty
of American property, and the usual clause against illicit trade. "
On the trial of the cause, before the chief justice, at N.isi Prius,
in Yulq 1806, it appeared that upon the 7th of August 1799,
when Surnarm was in possession of the Dutch, the vessel sailed
on the voyage insured, and arrived at the river of Surinam, on
the 17th of September following; that the brig was detained at the
entrance of the river, by the commander of the British fbrt, who
informed the captain, that the colony of Surinam had been in possession of the British forces about twenty days; that the captain,
and a passenger of the name of 7. G. Richter (who was an inhabitant of Surinam, and to whom the cargo was deliverable there,
on his paying 25,310 dollars, in pursuance of a contract with the
plaintiffs, Morgan and Price)proceeded to the town of Paramanto,
and the cargo was there tendered and agreed to be accepted by
Richter; who gave security for paying the stipulated price, as soon
as possible after the delivery, in conformity to the contract.
On the 19th-of September, the'governor of the colony gave permission for the brig to be brought up to. town, where she, accordingly, arrived the'next day, for the purpose of discharging her
cargo; that on reporting, however, to the custom.house, the collector declared, that he would not permit any article to be'landed,
excepting the provisions, (which did not amount to more than
one-eighth of the cargo) and that .permission to land the cargo
generally, was repeatedly solicited by the captain, but reftused by
the governor; in consequence of which, it was brou.ght back to
Philadelphia.

