RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
277

Syllabus.

others. The immunity extends only to compensation for
their services. No question of comparison or reasonableness is involved.
Admittedly the Court now repudiates its earlier decisions upon the point here in issue. The provision defining
tenure and providing for undiminishable compensation
was adopted with unusual accord. There has been unanimity of opinion that, -because in comparison with the
legislative and executive the judicial department is weak,
its independence is essential to our system of government. These safeguards go far to insure that independence. And, from the beginning, statesmen and jurists
have agreed that the clause forbids diminution of judges'
compensation by any form of legislation. The clause in
question is plain: no exception is expressed; none may
be implied. Its unqualified command should be given
effect.
For one convinced that the judgment now given is
wrong, it is impossible to acquiesce or merely to note dissent. And so this opinion is written to indicate the
grounds of opposition and to evidence regret that another
landmark has been removed.
I am of opinion that the judgment of the district court
should be affirmed.
RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE, LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 676.

Argued April 24, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

1. Review is confined to the questions urged in the petition for
certiorari. P. 303.
2. The fact that he is an employee of a corporation of which the
plaintiff in the case is president does not disqualify a notary public
under § 11532, General Code of Ohio, from taking an affidavit
in attachment or garnishment. P. 303.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

3. Under the General Code of Ohio, §§ 11279, 11819, when a civil
action for money has been begun by filing the petition and issuing
summons, an attachment or garnishment is not premature because
obtained prior to personal service or before commencement of
service by publication. P. 306.
4. Under R. S. §§ 646 and 915, where an action has been removed
to the federal court after the state court had acquired jurisdiction
in rem by attachment or garnishment, the federal court, without
prior personal service of summons, has the same jurisdiction to
extend the attachment or garnishmeit to other property as the
state court would have had under the state law if the case had
not been removed. Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read, 229 U. S. 31,
limited. P. 312.
100 F. 2d 844, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 626, to review the affirmance of
a judgment discharging an attachment and garnishment
and dismissing the petition, in an action removed from
a state court on the ground of diverse citizenship.
Mr. George R. Effler, with whom Messrs. H. W. Fraser
and R. B. Swartzbaugh were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George D. Welles, with whom Mr. Fred E. Fuller
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case is here on a writ of certiorari to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
We granted the writ because the court below had decided
an important question of local law in a way probably in
conflict with applicable local decisions and probably had
misconstrued certain federal statutes and a decision of
this Court thereunder.
The basic question here involved is whether a federal
district court, in the absence of jurisdiction in personam
and after removal of a cause from a state court where
jurisdiction in rem over certain property of a defendant

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
299

Opinion of the Court.

has already been acquired, can issue an order of attachment or garnishment against other property of the same
defendant.
Petitioner, a resident of Ohio, brought suit on June
19, 1930, in a state court in Ohio against respondent, a
nonresident corporation organized under Canadian law,
on a contract claim for personal services rendered.' Summons was concurrently issued, but personal service was
never had; and simultaneously, an affidavit in attachment
and garnishment was filed. A second affidavit in attachment and garnishment was filed on June 27, 1930, naming
additional persons; and shortly thereafter certain funds
and property of respondent were garnisheed. Subsequently, service by publication was completed; and soon
afterwards, and before judgment, respondent appeared
specially and obtained a removal of the cause to the
District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Ohio, Western Division. In the District Court
respondent also appeared specially and moved to quash
the service by publication and to dismiss the attachment
and garnishment. Nothing further was done in the cause
for over five years. Then, on February 17, 1936, petitioner, with leave of the District Court, filed a supplemental and amended petition repeating in substance the
allegations of the original petition; and a supplemental
affidavit in garnishment which named as garnishees the
same persons designated in the original affidavits of June
1930 in the state court. On the same day, the District
Court issued an order of attachment and notices to garnishees. Under the latter additional funds in the hands of
one of the garnishees were reached. And on April 11, 1936,
respondents. again appeared specially in the District
' Paris E. Singer was also named a defendant in the original petition but died pending the action. Since subsequent proceedings were
continued against respondent alone, the cause is treated as if Devon
Syndicate, Limited, were the sole defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Court, and moved, inter alia, to dismiss the attachment
and garnishment under the supplemental affidavit of
February 17, 1936. After removal to the District Court
there was neither personal service, nor, so far as appears,
service by publication.
By its motions of January 26, 1931, and April 11, 1936,
respondent asserted that the affidavits in attachment and
garnishment were defective and void under Ohio law;
that there was no property of respondent within the
jurisdiction of the District Court or the state court on
which any valid attachment could be or was levied; that
there was no property of respondent in the possession of
any of the garnishees; that the attachment and garnishment and the service of summons were void by reason of
incorrect designation of respondent; that there was no
lawful service of summons under the supplemental and
amended petition made on respondent; that the supplemental attachment and garnishment under the amended
petition were also void for lack of personal service; and
that the District Court had no jurisdiction over either
the respondent or its property appropriate for the maintenance of this action.
After oral argument on respondent's motions, the District Court entered an order discharging the attachment
and garnishment and striking the petition from the files
of the court, on the grounds that the affidavits in attachment and garnishment, dated June 19 and June 27, 1930,
were defective and void, and that the supplemental affidavit in attachment and garnishment was also void and
ineffective, since no personal service had been made on
respondent. On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
the judgment was affirmed on the grounds that the original attachment or, garnishment in the state court was premature and void; that on removal the federal District
Court could not validate an attachment not perfected in
the state court proceeding; and that attachment may not

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
299

Opinion of the Court.

issue in a federal District Court until the defendant has
been personally served or has voluntarily appeared.
Of the various questions raised below and briefed here,
only those urged in the petition for certiorari and incidental to their determination will be considered on review.
General Talking Pictures Corp. v. Western Electric Co.,
304 U. S. 175; Connecticut Railway & Lighting Co. v.
Palmer,305 U. S. 493.
Before coming to the basic question here involved,
namely, whether the garnishment secured in the District
Court under the supplemental affidavit of February 17,
1936, was void, there are two preliminary questions.
These are (1) whether the notary public before whom
the affidavits in attachment and garnishment of June 19
and June 27, 1930, were taken was disqualified, thus
rendering the garnishment proceedings void and of no
effect; and (2) whether the garnishments obtained in the
state court were premature and void because they were
secured without personal service and prior to the first
publication of notice of constructive service.
First. The Ohio General Code provided that an affidavit
might be used to obtain a provisional remedy such as attachment or garnishment (§ 11523), and that an affidavit
might be made before any person authorized to take
depositions (§ 11524). Sec. 11532 provided-that "The
officer before whom depositions are taken must not be a
relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise interested in the event of the action or proceeding." The
notary in question was D. W. Drennan, a member of the
Ohio bar and of the bar of the District Court. Although
Drennan had some private practice of his own, he was in
the employ of a corporation, of which petitioner was president, and previously in the employ of a predecessor partnership, of which petitioner was a member. But he did
not represent petitioner in this case; nor had he ever
represented him as personal counsel; nor was he consulted

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

by petitioner with reference to this case; nor was he related to petitioner; nor did he have any financial stake
in the outcome of this suit. His sole connection with the
case was that he acted as notary on a few papers. Furthermore, the petition in this case alleged a cause of action
personal to petitioner, not one on behalf of the corporation by which Drennan was employed or on behalf of its
predecessor partnership.
Since Drennan was not a "relative or attorney" of
petitioner, he was not disqualified to take the affidavit
unless within the meaning of the Ohio statute he was
"otherwise interested in the event of the action or proceeding." The District Court held that he was so interested. We, do not so interpret the Ohio law. Absent
some legal or material interest, it seems to us, on the
basis of the Ohio authorities which we have found, that
there must be some immediate interest in the action akin
to that of a relative in order for the notary to run afoul
of the statutory prohibition. Disability thus depends on
the particular circumstances of each case-the degree of
intimacy in relationship between petitioner and notary.
In RhinelanderCo. v. PittsburghCo., 15 Ohio C. C. (N. S.)
286, an Ohio court held that a young man working as a
salaried employee for a firm of attorneys retained in the
case was not disqualified by the foregoing section from
taking an affidavit in the case as notary. The interest
which disqualifies under the Ohio statute, said that
Court, is "some legal, certain and immediate interest
such as formerly disqualified a witness from testifying."
Id., p. 286. Certainly, if an employee of one who himself is disqualified to act as notary is qualified so to act,
an employee of a corporation whose officer is suing not on
behalf of the corporation but for himself would seem to
be similarly qualified under Ohio law. This seems to us
especially persuasive, since the notary in question was in
fact taking not a deposition but an affidavit and since

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.

305

Opinion of the Court.

299

the affidavit was not for use as evidence.! Accordingly,
we conclude that the affidavits of June 19 and June 27,
1930, were not defective because they were sworn to
before D. W. Drennan.3
'There is Ohio authority for the view that § 11532 of the Ohio
General Code under which the notary's disqualification is asserted
was intended only to define and regulate the taking of affidavits to
be" used as testimony in a judicial proceeding. City Commission of
Gallipolis v. State, 36 Oh. App. 258. On the other hand, Leavitt &
Milroy Co. v. Rosenberg Bros. & Co., 83 Oh. St. 230; 93 N. E.
904, squarely held that an attachment was defective because the affidavit was made before a notary who was the attorney for the
plaintiff in violation of § 11532-then § 5271 Rev. Stat. And though
that case, so far as appears, has never been overruled, its holding
and § 11532 were nevertheless before the court in Evans v. Lawyer,
123 Oh. St. 62; 173 N. E. 735. There the Court referred to certain
sections of the General Code (including § 11532) which relate to execution of affidavits and said "The sections of the Code referred to
relate to the mode of taking testimony, and are found under Part
Third, Title IV, Division III, relating to procedure in common
pleas court, in Chapter 3 in regard to evidence. We think these sections of the Code relate to affidavits to be used in the sense of evidence." Id., p. 66. Though we are not justified on these authorities
in concluding that the prohibitions contained in § 11532 are inapplicable to notaries before whom affidavits in attachment and garnishment are taken, nevertheless they lend support to the view
that in considering whether or not a notary is "otherwise interested"
in the event of the action within the meaning of the section, it is
appropriate to give some weight to the function which the affidavit
in question is to perform, in the absence of a contrary ruling by
the Ohio courts.
'Another reason urged by respondent for the invalidity of the
affidavits in question is that the notary was disqualified by § 121
of the Ohio General Code which provides: "No banker, broker,
cashier, director, teller, or clerk of a bank, banker or broker, or
other person holding an official relation to a bank, banker, or
broker, shall be competent to act as notary public in any matter in
which such bank, banker, or broker is interested." Respondent
claims that the corporation of which petitioner was an officer and
by which the notary was employed, as well as the predecessor partnership, was a municipal bond broker; that petitioner, being an
161299°-39-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Second. Sec. 11279 of the Ohio General Code provides
that "A civil action must be commenced by filing in the
office of the clerk of the proper court a petition, and causing a summons to be issued thereon." Sec. 11819 provides that "In a civil action for the recovery of money,
at or after its commencement, the plaintiff may have an
attachment against the property of the defendant" upon
various enumerated grounds. In this case the petition
was filed, summons was issued, and an affidavit in attachment and garnishment was filed-all on June 19,
1930. It would seem, therefore, that § 11819 was satisfied.
But the Circuit Court of Appeals held that an attachment which issued before personal service was obtained,
or before the beginning of publication for substituted
service, was premature and void. Under that test the attachments and garnishments sought in the state court
on June 19 and June 27, 1930, were defective since personal service was never had and since service by publication was not commenced until several months later.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reached this conclusion in
reliance upon its earlier decision in Doherty v. Cremering,
83 F. 2d 388, and upon the decision of the Supreme Court
of Ohio in Seibert v. Switzer, 35 Ohio St. 661.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals erred. The
chronology of events in the Doherty case is the same as
the chronology here-attachment was issued on the day
the petition was filed and substantially in advance of
commencement of service by publication. Personal service was not had. The court relied upon § 11230 of the
Ohio General Code and upon Seibert v. Switzer, supra.
Sec. 11230 is contained in Chapter 2 of Division 1 of
officer of the corporation, was himself a broker; and that therefore
the notary was a "clerk of" or "other person holding an official relation to" a "broker." Suffice it to note (1) that the notary was not
in the employ of petitioner; and (2) that neither the corporation
nor its predecessor partnership appears to be "interested" in the
action. As alleged, the action seems to be personal to petitioner.

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
299

Opinion of the Court.

Title IV of the Ohio General Code. Title IV is entitled
"Procedure in Common Pleas Court." Chapter 2 of Division 1 is entitled "Limitation of Actions." Sec. 11230
provides: "An action shall be deemed to be commenced
within the meaning of this chapter, as to each defendant,
at the date of the summons which is served on him or on
a codefendant who is a joint contractor, or otherwise
united in interest with him. When service by publication is proper, the action shall be deemed to be commenced at the date of the first publication, if it be regularly made." (Italics added.)
It seems clear to us that the words "An action shall be
deemed to be commenced within the meaning of this
chapter" confine the operation of the section to matters
concerning the limitation of actions, the subject to which
the chapter is expressly devoted. The Supreme Court
Commission of Ohio in Bacher v. Shawhan, 41 Ohio St.
271, so interpreted § 4988 Rev. Stats. (now § 11231 of the
Ohio General Code) which provided: "An attempt to
commence an action shall be deemed to be equivalent to
the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this
chapter, when the party diligently endeavors to procure
service; but such attempt must be followed by service
within sixty days." The court held that the trial court
did not lose jurisdiction because service by publication
was not commenced, personal service not being had, until
some seven months after suit was brought and an order
of attachment was issued and levied. The court said:
"It will be observed that the restrictive words 'within the
meaning of this chapter,' confine the operation of the section to matters concerning the limitations of actions. It
seems to us that the legislative intent was to prevent
parties from indefinitely prolonging a suspension of the
statute by a mere attempt to sue." Id., p. 272.
On that authority we conclude that "at or after its
commencement" as used in § 11819 means the commence-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ment described in § 11279, not the commencement described in § 11230. Additional support for this conclusion
is found in Seibert v. Switzer, 35 Ohio St. 661, on which
the Circuit Court of Appeals relied for the contrary conclusion. There the validity of an order of attachment
which had been issued and served prior to the filing of the
petition was in issue. At that time § 11279 (then Civil
Code, § 55) was identically the same as at present. Sec.
11819 (then Civil Code, § 191) was, so far as material
here, substantially the same as it is now; i. e., it allowed
the plaintiff in a civil action for the recovery of money to
have an attachment "at or after the commencement" of
the action. Sec. 11820 (then Civil Code, § 192) at that
time, as now, provided that the order of attachment
should be made "by the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought." And § 11821 (then Civil Code, § 193)
required in case of attachment, as it does now, a bond by
the "plaintiff" to the "defendant" except in case defendant was a non-resident or a foreign corporation. The
court in Seibert v. Switzer, supra, held that the order of
attachment was unauthorized and void, ' and said: "No
action was, in fact, commenced by the filing of a petition, until some three or four hours after the order of
attachment was served and returned."
"The statute does not authorize an attachment except
in an action, and the clerk of the court has no authority
to issue the order of attachment until an action is
brought and the relation of plaintiff and defendant is
established in the case.
"An action is commenced -or brought, within the meaning of sections 192 and 193, by the filing of a petition and
'It should also be noted that § 11230 (Civil Code, § 20) was substantially the same then as now. Though that section provided
that "within the meaning of this section" an action where service by
publication was proper should "be deemed commenced at the date
of the first publication," the court determined the date of commencement by § 11279 without mentioning § 11230.

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
299

Opinion of the Court.

causing a summons to issue thereon. Code, § 55 . .
Id., p. 665.
The Seibert case and the Bacher case thus seem to be
wholly consistent. An order of attachment issued prior to
the filing of a petition and issuance of summons is void;
an order of attachment issued after filing of the petition
and the issuance of summons but prior to the commencement of service by publication is valid, though personal
service is not had.
In view of these Ohio authorities, we conclude that the
attachments or garnishments secured in the state court
were not premature or void because obtained prior to personal service or before commencement of service by publication. See also, St. John v. Parsons,54 Ohio App. 420;
7 N. E. 2d 1013. Those liens, having been obtained in
the state court prior to removal, are preserved intact after
removal. § 646 of the Revised Statutes (28 U. S. C.
§ 79).5
Third. This brings us to the main issue in the casewhether a federal District Court has the power to issue an
order of attachment or garnishment in a removed cause
if jurisdiction in rem has been obtained prior to removal.
The Circuit Court of Appeals relied upon the rule laid
down in Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read, 229 U. S.31, that an
attachment may not issue in a federal District Court
'Sec. 646 provides: "When any suit shall be removed from a
State court to a district court of the United States, any attachment
or sequestration of the goods or estate of the defendant had in such

suit in the State court shall hold the goods or estate so attached or
sequestered to answer the final judgment or decree in the same
manner as by law they would have been held to answer final judgment or decree had it been rendered by the court in which said
suit was commenced. All bonds, undertakings, or security given
by either party in such suit prior to its removal shall remain valid
and effectual notwithstanding said removal; and all injunctions,
orders, and other proceedings had in such suit prior to its removal
shall remain in full force and effect until dissolved or modified by the
court to which such suit shall be removed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

where no personal service has been had upon defendant
or where defendant has made no personal appearance.
One of the earliest antecedents of the Big Vein Coal Co.
case, supra, was Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300. In that
case a citizen of Pennsylvania brought suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Pennsylvania against a citizen of Massachusetts who was domiciled abroad. No personal service was had, but an attachment was levied upon defendant's property in Pennsylvania. See. 739 of the Revised Statutes then provided
that no civil suit should be brought in either the circuit or
district court against any inhabitant of the United States
by any original process in any other district than that
whereof he was an inhabitant or in which he was found
at the time of the serving of the writ. This Court by a
divided vote concluded that an attachment could not be
issued except as a part of, or together with, process served
upon defendant personally. And in Ex parte Railway
Co., 103 U. S. 794, this Court concluded that since the
defendant was an inhabitant of a state outside the jurisdiction of the federal court and was not found or served
with process in that jurisdiction, no attachment could
issue from that court against his property. It was on the
basis of those two precedents that this Court later made
its decision in Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read, supra. In that
case, plaintiff instituted suit in the federal court. A summons was issued and returned not found. Thereafter an
order of attachment was issued. It was held that unless
jurisdiction in personam is obtained over the defendant,
his estate may not be attached in the federal court, an
attachment being but "an incident to a suit" and not a
means of acquiring jurisdiction. Id., p. 38. This conclusion was reached in spite of the fact that § 739 had been
changed since Ex parte Railway Co., supra, by addition
of a diversity of citizenship clause permitting suit "in the
district of the residence of either the defendant or plain-

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
299

Opinion of the Court.

tiff," and in spite of § 915 of the Revised Statutes (28
U. S. C. § 726), discussed hereafter. Nevertheless, this
Court held that since Congress had not explicitly provided
for service by publication in such cases, attachment could
be obtained only in cases where service was adequate for
a judgment in personam.
The argument for extension or application of the rule
followed from Toland v. Sprague to Big Vein Coal Co. v.
Read, supra, to cases such as the instant one loses its persuasiveness. Ingrained in those decisions is the feeling
that it would be unjust for a person to have his rights
passed upon in the absence of the notice afforded by
personal service, so that he might appear and defend
himself. That philosophy was perhaps best expressed by
Mr. Justice Miller sitting in circuit in Nazoro v. Cragin,
3 Dill. 474, 476, where he said, in 1873, that a contrary
doctrine would "compel citizens of the Pacific Coast to go
to New York to defend their property which happened
to be there and would give the great central cities vast
power." But that viewpoint had not been expressed by
the Congress in § 646. That section gave validity in the
federal court to attachments obtained in the state court
prior to removal, by its provision that any attachment
in the state court suit "shall hold the goods or estate so
attached" to answer the final judgment or decree. And
this Court has solicitously protected attachments obtained prior to removal, even though jurisdiction in rem
had not been perfected in the state court by service by
publication. Clark v. Wells, 203 U. S.164. So to a considerable degree, this Court in pursuance of the policy of
the Congress as expressed in § 646, has not adhered rigorously to the philosophy underlying the antecedents of the
Big Vein Coal Company case. For most assuredly a defendant whose property is attached in a state court prior
to removal may not have been given notice of the kind
which personal service would provide, since the state pro-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

cedure as in this case commonly permits attachment or
garnishment where only service by publication can be
made.
But we need not rely merely on inferences drawn from
statutory construction, since the Congress has provided
plaintiffs in federal courts with procedural remedies available in state courts. Sec. 915 of the Revised Statutes
provides:
"In common-law causes in the district courts the plaintiff shall be entitled to similar remedies, by attachment or
other process, against the property of the defendant,
which were, on June 1, 1872, provided by the laws of the
State in which such court is held for the courts thereof;
and such district courts may, from time to time, by general rules, adopt such State laws as may be in force in
the States where they are held in relation to attachments
and other process. Similar preliminary affidavits or proofs,
and similar security, as required by such State laws, shall
be first furnished by the party seeking such attachment
or other remedy."
This section when read with § 646, indicates to us that
where jurisdiction in rem has been acquired prior to
removal, plaintiff may obtain in the federal court after
removal such orders of attachment or garnishment as
would have been available to him had he been permitted
to remain in the state court. Such interpretation merely
makes it possible for a lien obtained in a state court prior
to removal to be extended by the federal court to other
property of the same defendant. It introduces no new
element in the statutory scheme for, as we have said, the
lien which § 646 protects may often have been obtained
without personal service. The policy which recognizes
the validity of a lien preserved by virtue of § 646, though
personal service is lacking, permits extension of that lien
by a federal District Court under like circumstances to
other property of the same defendant by reason of
§ 915.

NEWARK FIRE INS. CO. v. STATE BOARD. 313
299

Syllabus.

This holding can be brought within the rule of the
Big Vein Coal Company case, supra, if that decision is
narrowly limited. For in one sense it can be said that
attachment or garnishment is here used only as an "auxiliary remedy." Id., p. 37. The garnishment effected
under the affidavit of February 17, 1936, if valid under
Ohio law, would merely extend the proceedings in rem
to reach other property of the same defendant. Accordingly, if that extension is permissible under § 915, it is
not defective merely because jurisdiction in personam
is absent. Whether or not such extension is permissible
is a matter of state law on which we do not pass. Since
the case will be remanded, that question and other questions raised by the respondent can be more appropriately
disposed of by the District Court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

NEWARK FIRE INSURANCE CO. v. STATE BOARD

OF TAX APPEALS

ET AL. *

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 449.

Argued April 18, 19, 1939.-Decided May 29, 1939.

A tax assessed under a statute of New Jersey against an insurance
company incorporated under the laws of that State, upon the full
amount of its capital stock paid in and accumulated surplus, less
certain deductions for liabilities and statutory exemptions-re*Together with No. 456, Universal Insurance Co. et al. v. State
Board of Tax Appeals et al., also on appeal from the Court of
Errors and Appeals of New Jersey.

