588

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

H. P. HOOD & SONS, INC. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 772.

Argued April 25, 26, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

1. Objections, on constitutional grounds, to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, and to certain features of an order
of the Secretary of Agriculture made thereunder, overruled upon
the authority of the Rock Royal case, ante, p. 533. P. 595.
2. The finding and proclamation required of the Secretary of Agriculture by § 8 (e) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937 to justify an order based on purchasing power during
the post-war period specified in that section rather than upon the
pre-war period mentioned in § 2-that is to say, a finding and
proclamation that the purchasing power of the commodity regulated can not be satisfactorily determined for the pre-war period
from available statistics of the Department of Agriculture-need
not be repeated in connection with an amendment of the order
which does not involve any change of the base period, although
it is declared by § 8 (17) that the provisions of § 8 (e) applicable
to orders "shall be applicable to amendments to orders." P. 595.
3. A referendum to producers, under § 8c (9) (B) and § Sc (19) of
the above-mentioned Act, of amendments to an order regulating
the handling of milk in the marketing area of Boston and vicinity, was properly restricted to producers who sold their fluid
milk to handling plants licensed by the state law to distribute or
sell fluid milk in the marketing area and which had shipped milk
or cream to that area during the representative period. So held,
in the light of the object of the regulation, which was to remedy
marketing evils caused by a surplus of fluid milk. P. 597.
The referendum election was not invalidated (a) by denying the
vote to producers who sold to handlers not licensed to sell milk,
but only cream, in the marketing area; (b) by allowing the vote
to producers who sold their milk at plants which shipped only
cream to the marketing area during the representative period,
*Together with No. 809, Whiting Milk Co. v. United States et al.,
and No. 865, Branon v. United States et al., also on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Counsel for Parties.

but which were licensed to sell fluid milk in that area and could
.have done so; (c) by allowing the vote to producers not registered
as required by the state law but whose milk was sold in the
marketing area by licensed handlers; or (d) by permitting the
vote to producers who sold to stations which shipped less than 50
per cent. of the milk to the area during the representative period.
4. At such a referendum a coiperative association of producers may
vote for its members. P. 599.
5. An order of the Secretary of Agriculture which regulated the
prices of milk sold by producers to licensed handlers for a marketing area, and which required such handlers to pay through an
equalization fund---construed as including milk bought of unregistered farms and sold in violation of the state law. P. 599.
6. Assuming that, under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937, reinstatement of a suspended order should be supported
by a finding that the reinstatement will tend to effectuate the
policy of the Act, the omission can be supplied by an appropriate
finding on repromulgation of the order with amendments. P. 602.
21 F. Supp. 321; 26 F. Supp. 672, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 627, 629, to review decrees of a
District Court granting mandatory injunctions in two
suits brought by the United States and the Secretary of
Agriculture to enforce a marketing order regulating prices
of milk and milk products in an area comprising the City
of Boston and adjacent settlements. The original defendants were three milk dealers. Two milk producers,
one of whom is the petitioner in No. 865, intervened as
defendants. Upon interlocutory appeal the Circuit
Court of Appeals gave an opinion which is reported as
H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. United States, 97 F. 2d 677.
The writs of certiorari were issued while the cases were
pending in that court upon appeals from the final
decrees.

Mr. Charles B. Rugg, with whom Messrs. Edward F.
Merrill, WarrenF. Farr,H. Brian Holland, and Archibald

Cox were on the brief, for petitioners in Nos. 772 and 865.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Mr. John M. Raymond, with whom Messrs. Lawrence
Foster and Augustin H. Parker, Jr. were on the brief, for
petitioner in No. 809.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Arnold and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, James C.
Wilson, and Robert K. McConnaughey were on a brief in
Nos. 772 and 809, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These cases involve the constitutionality of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 19371 as applied
in an order of the Secretary of Agriculture regulating the
handling of milk in the Greater Boston, Massachusetts,
Marketing Area.
The petitioners, H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc., and Noble's
Milk Company of No. 772 and Whiting Milk Company
of No. 809, original defendants below, are engaged in
handling milk in the marketing area in the current of
interstate commerce or in a manner which burdens that
commerce. Producers intervened as defendants, petitioner E. Frank Branon on the side of H. P. Hood & Sons
and Chester D. Noyes beside the Whiting Company. The
respondents, plaintiffs below, are the United States of
America and the Secretary of Agriculture. The parties
will be referred to as defendants and plaintiffs, respectively.
It is unnecessary to detail the facts of each case. They
are two of many instituted by the plaintiffs to secure
obedience to the Order. On October 1, 1937, bills of
complaint were filed in the District Court for the District
of Massachusetts, 21 F. Supp. 321, for the purpose of
enjoining Hood & Sons, Noble's Milk Company and
'Act of June 3, 1937, 50 Stat. 246.

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

Whiting Milk Company from violating the terms of
Order No. 4 as amended. A temporary mandatory injunction issued on November 30, 1937. A supersedeas
followed soon after, conditioned upon payment by the
three handlers into the registry of the court of the
amounts billed to them by the Market Administrator for
equalization charges and marketing services under the
Order. Answers to the bills asserted constitutional infirmities in the Act and fatal weaknesses in the Order
as amended. A Special Master was charged with the
duty of finding the facts in these and similar suits. His
report was filed on January 27, 1939. Shortly thereafter,
the District Court confirmed the report, sustained both
the Act and the Order, and entered a decree for the plaintiffs. The defendants took an appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals and, after the cases were docketed, filed petitions for writs of certiorari. The writs were granted
because important questions of federal law undecided by
this Court were involved and pending appeals in other
cases with similar issues were ready for argument.
The pertinent provisions of the Marketing Act have
been summarized in United States v. Rock Royal Cooperative, ante, p. 533. They will not be repeated here.
Order No. 4, as amended, which the plaintiffs seek to
enforce, is the culmination of an extended effort by the
Secretary to work out a plan to regulate the marketing
of milk in the Boston area. Order No. 4 was originally
issued on February 7, 1936, under the Agricultural Adjustment Act. 2 All steps leading to its issuance were
taken. On November 30, 1935, the Secretary gave notice
of a public hearing on a proposed marketing agreement
and order. Hearings were held. A marketing agreement
was tentatively approved which handlers failed to accept.
2 Act

of May 12, 1933, 48 Stat. 31, as amended August 24, 1935,

49 Stat. 750.

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

On January 25, 1936, the Secretary found and proclaimed
that the purchasing power of milk could not be satisfactorily determined for the pre-war base period from available statistics in the Department of Agriculture, but
could for the post-war period. August, 1919, to July,
1929, was declared the base period for the purpose of
issuing an order. On February 5, 1936, the Secretary
made a determination, as required by § 8c (9), as to
the necessity for issuing an order. The President approved the determination, and the Order issued. It remained in effect until August 1, 1936, shortly after the
District Court for the District of Massachusetts held that
the Act under which the Order was issued was unconstitutional.' On that day the Secretary suspended the
Order for an indefinite time.
After the passage of the Marketing Act, the Secretary,
on June 24, 1937, gave notice of a hearing upon proposed amendments to Order No. 4. On the following
day he terminated the suspension of the formal and
administrative provisions as of July 1, and of the pricefixing provisions as of August 1. Hearings were held. A
proposed marketing agreement failed of approval by the
handlers. On July 17, 1937, a referendum took place.
It will be discussed later at some length because of contentions which question its validity. On July 27, 1937,
acting pursuant to § 8c (9), the Secretary determined
that the failure of the handlers to sign tended to prevent
effectuation of the declared policy of the Act; that issuance of the proposed amendments to the Order was the
only practical means of advancing the interests of milk
producers in the area; and that the issuance was approved by over 70 percent of the producers who during
May, 1937, were engaged in the production of milk for
sale in the area. The President approved the determinaUnited States v. David Buttrick Co., 15 F. Supp. 655, reversed in

91 F. 2d 66.

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

tion. On July 28, 1937, "Order No. 4, Amendment No.
1" issued. In it the Secretary made findings upon the
evidence introduced at the hearings upon the proposed
amendments and ratified the original findings in so far as
they were not in conflict with the new ones. He made no
finding or proclamation, as he had in the original Order,
that satisfactory statistics were not available for the
pre-war period but were for the post-war period. It is
not disputed that the latter was used as the base period
for the purpose of computing the prices to be used in the
amended Order.
This amended Order is based upon the same principles
discussed in United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative,
ante, p. 533, and companion cases, decided today. It
establishes a comprehensive scheme for the regulation of
milk handled in interstate or foreign commerce in an area
which includes Boston and 36 other cities or towns. A
Market Administrator, appointed by the Secretary of
Agriculture, is in charge. Producers and handlers are
defined, the first as any person producing milk in conformity with the health regulations applicable to milk
sold for consumption as milk in the marketing area, the
second as all, including producers or associations of producers, who engage "in such handling of milk, which is
sold as milk or cream in the Marketing Area, as is in
the current of interstate commerce or which directly
burdens, obstructs, or affects interstate or foreign commerce in milk and its products."
There are two use classifications, roughly, fluid and
non-fluid. A price is stated for Class I or fluid milk;
a formula, based primarily on the price of cream in Boston and casein in New York, is provided for the calculation of the Class II price for each delivery period. Minimum prices determine the value of all the milk delivered
by all producers to all the handlers subject to the Order.
Except to associations of producers for Class I milk, pay161299°-39-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ment to producers is made at a blended price. The Administrator computes the value of milk for each handler
by multiplying the quantities used by him in each class
by the class price, and by adding the two results. Then
the values for all handlers are combined into one total.
Adjustments are made for differentials. The adjusted
total is divided by the total quantity of milk. The result
is a weighted average price somewhere between the two
class prices, known as the "blended price." Each handler
pays his producers at the blended price. The amount
paid to producers may be less, or it may be more, than
the value of the milk sold by the handler. Equalization
is made among handlers. As the Order puts it, after paying his own producers, each handler pays "To producers,
through the Market Administrator, by paying to or receiving from the Market Administrator, as the case may
be, the amount by which payments made . . . are less
than, or exceed, the value of milk as required to be
computed for such handler .
The defendants urge that the decree of the District
Court should be reversed because of error under the
Constitution, under the statute, under the Order itself.
It is contended that the equalization provisions of the
amended Order violate the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment; that the price fixing features of the
Act and Order constitute an invalid exercise of the power
to regulate commerce and an invasion of the powers reserved to the states. under the Tenth Amendment; 4 and
that the Act involves delegation of legislative power.
The amendments to the Order are said to be void because
an essential finding required by the statute is lacking.
The referendum among producers is assailed as improperly conducted. And the defendants in No. 772 raise the
point that the Market Administrator failed to comply
with the provisions of the amended Order.
'Only defendant in No. 809 makes this contention.

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

Constitutionality.-Thereis nothing to be added to the
discussion of the constitutionality of the Act in United
States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, ante, p. 533. The
discussion there of the validity of the amended Order, in
so far as similar issues are raised in this case, is also
determinative.
Order Amended without Finding as to Base Period.Order No. 4, as amended, is the controlling regulation in
these cases. As authorized by § 8e I it used a post-war
period as the base period to determine prices. The finding and proclamation by the Secretary as to the absence
of statistics for the pre-war period, available for use, were
made for the original issue of Order No. 4 but not for
the amendments. Section 8c (17) makes certain sections, including 8e, applicable to amendments of orders.
It reads thus: "The provisions of this section, section 8d,
and section 8e applicable to orders shall be applicable to
amendments to orders. . . ." Defendants contend that
this requires a finding and proclamation under § 8e each
time an order which includes a post-war base period is
amended in any particular.
Ordinarily the base period of § 2 is to be used. It is
only after a finding that the purchasing power of the
commodity during the period fixed in § 2 cannot be satisfactorily determined from available statistics of the
Department of Agriculture that the Secretary by § 8e
"'See. 8e. In connection with the making of any marketing
agreement or the issuance of any order, if the Secretary finds and
proclaims that, as to any commodity specified in such marketing
agreement or order, the purchasing power during the base period
specified for such commodity in section 2 of this title cannot be satisfactorily determined from available statistics of the Department of
Agriculture, the base period, for the purposes of such marketing
agreement or order, shall be the post-war period, August 1919-July
1929,, or all that portion thereof for which the Secretary finds and
proclaims that the purchasing power of such commodity can be
satisfactorily determined from available statistics of the Department
of Agriculture."

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

is authorized to find and proclaim the post-war base
period. By § 8c, (1) the Secretary is authorized to issue
"and from time to time amend" orders. Obviously, as a
general clause to make all the provisions of § § Sc, 8d and
8e applicable to amendments, § 8c (17) was adopted.
Without it questions would have been pertinent as to the
applicability to amended orders of various provisions in
these sections. Doubt would arise as to the power to
change the base period after it was once determined.
There would seem to be no occasion to review the absence
of satisfactory statistics, however, on a proposed amefidment which does not involve any change in the base
period. The requirement for finding and proclamation in
adopting a base period is not intended to force the Secretary to go through a meaningless-ritual. A determination
of the necessity of using the post-war base period once
made and proclaimed satisfies the conditions of §§ 8c (17)
and 8e for amendments, so long as no amendment is made
which involves a change in the base period. This has
been the administrative construction 6 where amendments
have been made to orders which had utilized a post-war
base period. The plaintiffs show this by a series
of references to the Federal Register which are not
challenged.7
'Armstrong Paint & Varnish Works v. Nu-Enamel Corp., 305 U. S.
315, 329.
'"Order No. 2, amended June 5, 1936 (1 Fed. Reg. 549); Order
No. 3, amended April 13, 1936 (1 Fed. Reg. 185), and March 29,
1937 (2 Fed. Reg. 616), and March 31,'1939 (4 Fed. Reg. 1404);
Order No. 4, amended July 28, 1937 (2 Fed. Reg. 1331), and January 13, 1939 (4 Fed. Reg. 249); Order No. 5, amended March 29,
1937 (2 Fed. Reg. 614); Order No. 7, amended October 24, 1936
(1 Fed. Reg. 1662); Order No. 11, amended November 17, 1936
(1 Fed. Reg. 1979); Order No. 12, amended February 24, 1937
(2 Fed. Reg. 354); Order No. 15, proclamation dated September 10,
1938 (3 Fed. Reg. 2222), amendment dated September 10, 1938
(3 Fed. Reg. 2222); Order No. 20, amended August 15, 1938 (3 Fed.
Reg. 2015)."

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

Validity of the Referendum.-The referendum is challenged as conducted contrary to the terms of the Act.
Section 8c (9) (B) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to issue an order, notwithstanding the failure of handlers to approve a marketing agreement, if he makes
certain determinations, one of them that the issuance is
approved by at least two-thirds of the producers who,
during a representative period, "have been engaged in
the production of such commodity for sale in the marketing area. . .
Under § 8c (19) the Secretary
"may conduct a referendum among producers" to ascertain whether two-thirds approve. He restricted voting
in the referendum under scrutiny to producers who had
delivered milk to a station approved for the shipment of
milk to the marketing area and which had shipped milk
or cream to the marketing area during the representative
period.
It is said that the Secretary by this restriction disregarded the language of the statute as to producers eligible
to vote and that the ballot was either accorded to producers not entitled to vote or denied to qualified producers. Specifically, the following errors are urged: (1)
A large number of southern and western producers who
delivered to stations shipping cream were not permitted
to vote. (2) Many New England or Eastern New York
producers voted who delivered to handlers at plants which
shipped only cream in the representative period. (3)
Many voted who produced milk on farms as to which no
certificate of registration had been issued, as required by
§§ 16A and 16C of the Massachusetts milk law." (4) A
number of approving producers delivered milk to stations
which shipped less than 50 percent of their product to the
Boston area. (5) Cobperatives cast votes in favor of the
' The alternative provisions may be disregarded in this case.
'Mass. Ann. Laws, c. 94, §§ 12-48.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

amendments to the Order solely through ballots cast
by their boards of directors. Inclusion of the southern
and western shippers of cream or elimination of any one of
the remaining groups might have changed the result of
the referendum.
It does not seem profitable to expand each of the contentions of the defendants. The question is simply
whether the statute was followed. It seems to us that it
was.
The Act does not supply the Secretary with detailed directions as to the manner of holding a referendum. Its
language is general. The Secretary "may conduct a referendum among producers." 10 What producers? Those
"engaged in the production of [milk] for sale in the.
marketing area. . . ." " Every producer who voted was
so engaged. Each delivered milk to the plant of a handler
licensed 1 to distribute and sell fluid milk in the marketing
area. The Order is aimed at the handling of milk marketed in the area. The problems to be solved are those
engendered by the necessary, yet troublesome, surplus of
fluid milk. Every handler to whom the voters delivered
contributed to that surplus.
The milk of the southern and western producers outside the milk-shed could not be sent into the marketing
area in fluid form, for their handlers were not licensed to
sell milk in the area. The station in Indiana, used in the
hearings as illustrative of the situation, held a license for
the emergency shipments of sweet cream only. The exclusion of the southern and western producers, therefore,
was proper. They are located outside the Boston milkshed; they do not produce any part of the burdensome
surplus of fluid milk.
1o§
'§

Sc (19).

Sc (9) (B) (i).
Mass. Ann. Laws, c. 94, § 40.

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

There was no error in permitting the remaining groups
of producers to vote. That some handlers to whom voting producers delivered milk shipped only cream during
the representative period is immaterial. The farmers, it
was found, cannot tell when they bring in their milk
whether it will be sold by the handlers as milk or cream.
As these handlers could have sent the fluid milk to the
area, and in most instances did, at times other than the
representative period, the milk delivered to them was a
potential part of the surplus. The producers who lacked
certificates of registration were properly included. Their
milk was sold in the area by licensed handlers. " Nor
can it make any difference that less than 50 percent of the
milk of some stations was shipped to the marketing area
during the representative period. There is nothing in the
Act that compels adopting 50 percent as determinative.
It was enough that the handlers of these producers did
send some part, and could have sent all.
Two co6peratives voted for their members in favor of
the amendments to the Order. 4 No poll was taken of
the individual producer members. Nor was there any
subsequent approval by them of the action taken on their
behalf by the co6peratives. Section 8c (12) directs the
Secretary to consider the approval or disapproval of cooperatives as the approval or disapproval of members.
This is complete authority for the action of the Secretary.
He need not require further referendums by co6peratives
themselves. Presumably they will vote with an eye to
the best interest of their members.
Violation of Order. The decree directs the defendants
to pay to the Market Administrator for distribution to
the producers through the equalization fund the amounts
Compare the discussion under the next heading, Violation of
Order.
"See United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, ante, 533, 556.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

which he had billed to them under the Order. The defendants H. P. Hood & Sons and Noble's Milk Company
contend that the bills include in their computation milk
plainly excluded by the terms of the Order because the
product of dairies without the certificates of registration
required by Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 94,
§§ 16A et seq. Under these sections no person may sell
milk known to have been produced on unregistered farms.
It is not disputed that milk from such farms figured in the
operation of the equalization pool. The explanation of
the plaintiffs is that the Order covers this milk.
The Administrator seeks payment on the basis of all
milk received by licensed handlers for use in the Marketing Area. It was found that milk received at a
country plant was included in the computation if the
Administrator knew the plant _was approved for shipment
of fluid milk by a city or town of the marketing area. By
statute handlers are required to have a license to handle
milk in any town where an inspector of milk is appointed
and a permit from the local board of health,15 and they
must register with the director of the dairying division
of the state department of agriculture."
As the action of handlers forms the ground for the initiation of regulation under the Act " and for classification,
" Mass. Ann. Laws, c. 94, §§ 40, 43.
"Id., § 16F.
17§ 8c. "(1) The Secretary of Agriculture shall, subject to the provisions of this section, issue, and from time to time amend, orders
ajplicable to processors, associations of producers, and others engaged
in the handling of any agricultural commodity or product thereof
specified in subsection (2) of this section. Such persons are referred
to in this title as 'handlers.' Such orders shall regulate, in the manner
hereinafter in this section provided, only such handling of such agricultural commodity, or product thereof, as is in the current of interstate or foreign commerce, or which directly burdens, obstructs, or
affects, interstate or foreign commerce in such commodity or product
thereof."

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

Opinion of the Court.

reports, calculation and payment under the Order,18 we
conclude that the milk received by handlers for use in the
area is the proper basis of computation. True, the reports are based on the delivery of milk by defined producers but in view of the terms of the Order as a whole,
'Article III. "Section 1. Sales and Use Classification.-Iilkpurchased or handled by handlers shall be classified as follows:
"1. All milk sold or distributed as milk, chocolate milk, or flavored
milk and all milk not specifically accounted for as Class II milk shall

be Class I milk; and
"2. Milk specifically accounted for (a) as being sold, distributed, or
disposed of other than as milk, chocolate milk, or flavored milk and
(b) as actual plant shrinkage within reasonable limits shall be Class

II milk."
Article V. "Section 1. Periodic Reports.-On or before the eighth
day after the end of each delivery period, each handler shall, except
as set forth in section 1 of article VI, with respect to milk or cream
which was, during such delivery period, (a) received from producers,
(b) received from handlers, or (c) produced by such handler, report
to the Market Administrator in the detail and form prescribed by the
Market Administrator, as follows:
"1. The receipts at each plant from producers who are not
handlers;
"2. The receipts at each plant from any other handler, including
any handier who is also a producer;
"3. The quantity, if any, produced by such handler; and
"4. The respective quantities of milk which were sold, distributed,
or used, including sales to other handlers, for the purpose of classification pursuant to article III."
Article VII. "Section 1. Computation of Value of Milk for Each
Handler.-For each delivery period the Market Administrator shall
compute, subject to the provisions of article VI, the value of milk sold
or used by each handler, which, was not purchased from other
handlers, by (a) multiplying the quantity of such milk in each class
by the price applicable pursuant to sections 2, 3, and 4 of article IV
and (b) adding together the resulting value of each class."
Article VIII. "Section 1. Time and Method of Payment=.-On or
before the 25th day after the end of each delivery period each handler
shall make payment, subject to the butterfat differential set forth in

section 3 of this article, for the total value of milk received during

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

we are of the opinion the milk from unregistered farms
must also be reported. The Act and Order regulate marketing. In violating the state health laws by knowingly
selling. milk from unregistered farms, producers, and
handlers may risk prosecution by the Massachusetts authorities. Nevertheless, the handlers must conform to
the Order. It is the milk handled, not the milk produced,
which is determinative. The Administrator was justified
in using milk received at an approved plant for computation. It may be added that under the state and town
regulations the municipalities in the marketing area,
through their control over licenses and permits, have the
power to supervise the handlers to see that they comply
with the law forbidding sales from unlicensed farms.1
The further contention is made that the Secretary
failed to make a finding as to the tendency of the reinsuch delivery period as required to be computed pursuant to section 1
of article VII, as follows:
"1. To each producer, except as set forth in paragraph 2 of this
section, at the blended price per hundredweight computed pursuant
to section 2 of article VII, subject to the differentials set forth in
section 4 of this article, for the quantity of milk delivered by such
producer;
"2. To any producer, who did not regularly sell milk for a period
of thirty days prior to the effective date hereof to a handler or to
persons within the Marketing Area, at the Class II price, in effect for
the plant at which such producer delivered milk, for all the milk
delivered by such producer during the period beginning with the first
regular delivery of such producer and continuing until the end of
two full calendar months following the first day of the next succeeding calendar month;
"3. To producers, through the Market Administrator, by paying to
-or receiving from the Market Administrator, as the case may be, the
amount by which the payments made pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2
of this section are less than, or exceed, the value of milk as required
to be computed for such handler pursuant to section 1 of article VII,
as shown in a statement rendered.by the Market Administrator on or
before the twentieth day after the end of such delivery period."
" Mass. Ann. Laws, c. 6 and c. 94, §§ 16A, 16F, 40, 41, 43.

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

statement of the original Order to effectuate the policy
of the Act. This is conceded. The Order was reinstated
in part as of July 1, 1937. It was thereafter amended after
hearings and on July 28, 1937, the Order as amended was
promulgated with the finding "That the issuance of the
amendment to the order and all of the terms and conditions of the order, as amended, will tend to effectuate the
declared policy of the act." We are of the view that this
finding cured any omission, if such a finding prior to reinstatement were necessary, as to which we express no
opinion. While Order No. 4 was partly in effect prior to
this amendment, the finding covered the entire Order No.
4 as amended, and the language of the Order promulgating the amendments is an approval of Order No. 4 as
amended, as tending to effectuate the declared policy of
the Act.
Other contentions are made which have been considered but they do not seem to require any statement.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS,

dissenting.

I regret that I cannot concur in the Court's disposition of these cases. I find it unnecessary to consider
whether the order complied with the terms of the Act
or whether the Act or the order deprived the appellees
of their property without due process. I am of opinion
that the Act unconstitutionally delegates legislative
power to the Secretary of Agriculture.
Valid delegation is limited to the execution of a law.
If power is delegated to make a law, or to refrain from
making it, or to determine what the law shall command
or prohibit, the delegation ignores and transgresses the
Constitutional division of power between the legislative
and the executive branches of the government.
In my view the Act vests in the Secretary authority
to determine, first, what of a number of enumerated com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

modities shall be regulated; second, in what areas the
commodity shall be regulated; third, the period of regulation, and, fourth, the character of regulation to be
imposed; and, for these reasons, cannot be sustained.
The statute is an attempted delegation to an executive
officer of authority to impose regulations within supposed limits and according to supposed standards so vague
as in effect to invest him with uncontrolled power of
legislation. Congress has not directed that the marketing
of milk shall be regulated. Congress has not directed
that regulation shall be imposed throughout the United
States or in any specified portion thereof. It has left the
choice of both locations and areas to the Secretary. Congress has not provided that regulation anywhere shall
become effective at any specified date, or remain effective
for any specified period. Congress has permitted such a
variety of forms of regulation as to invest the Secretary
with a choice of discrete systems each having the characteristics of an independent and complete statute.
Section 8c (2) provides that the Secretary may make
orders in respect of eight specified agricultural products.
It embodies no directions as to the specific conditions
which shall move him to issue orders affecting each of the
named commodities. The same section permits the promulgation of orders applicable to specified regions. It
omits any restriction or direction as to the size or location
of the area to be affected by a regional order. It leaves
the Secretary free to determine when regulation shall
become effective, when it shall be terminated throughout
the United States or in any portion thereof.
The supposed standards by which the Secretary is to
be governed turn out, upon examination, to be no standards whatever. All of the choices mentioned are, according to the Act, to be made if the Secretary has reason

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

to believe, or finds, that his proposed action will "tend to
effectuate the declared policy" of the Act.*
We turn, therefore, to § 2, which declares the policy of
the Congress to be: "through the exercise of the powers
conferred upon the Secretary of Agriculture under this
title, to establish and maintain such orderly marketing
conditions for agricultural commodities in interstate commerce as will establish prices to farmers at a level that
will give agricultural commodities a purchasing power
with respect to articles that farmers buy, equivalent to
the purchasing power of agricultural commodities in the
base period," which base period is defined as a period
of years antedating the passage of the Act. The section
further declares the policy to be worked out through the
Secretary to be "To protect the interest of the consumer
by (a) approaching the level of prices which it is declared
to be the policy of Congress to establish in subsection (1)
of this section by gradual correction of the current level
at as rapid a rate as the Secretary of Agriculture deems
to be in the public interest and feasible in view of the current consumptive demand in domestic and foreign markets, and (b) authorizing no action under this title which
has for its purpose the maintenance of prices to farmers
above the level which it is declared to be the policy of
Congress to establish in subsection (1) of this section."
Assuming that any of these proposed ends or aims
were in themselves capable of reasonable definition, it is,
nevertheless, evident that the Secretary is to form a
judgment by balancing a price raising policy against a
consumer-protection policy, according to his views of
feasibility and public interest.
If then the separate objects to be attained were matters susceptible of a definite finding there would still be
*See § Sc (3),8c (4), 8e (16).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

the inescapable result that, after such definite finding as
to each proposed aim, there must be an exercise of judgment as to the extent to which that aim should be accomplished in the light of other and conflicting aims.
And there would still remain the fact that the conclusion
might be against any regulation by reason of the Secretary's unrestrained judgment that, in the circumstances,
regulation is not "feasible."
Enough has been said to show that a law is to come
into being on the basis of the Secretary's sole judgment
as to its probable effect upon the milk industry, its probable effect upon the consumer, its probable consonance
with the public interest, and its feasibility. The resolution of all such problems is of the essence of law making.
But if, as the Act discloses, the supposed standards
whereby the Secretary is to ascertain the elements which
are to determine his ultimate decision are themselves so
vague that neither he nor anyone can accurately apply
them, the unlimited nature of the delegation becomes
even clearer.
The first thing the Secretary is permitted to accomplish by regulation, so the statute declares, is the parity
in purchasing power of the price to be received by producers with that received in the base period. This parity
is to be in terms of things farmers purchase. A moment's
reflection will show that any calculation of such parity
is impossible. The things farmers purchase, the relative
quantities in which they purchase them, and their price in
terms of milk, vary from month to month and from year
to year. Moreover, the Secretary is not to establish a
parity between two past periods but is to regulate the industry in such fashion as will, in his opinion, produce for
the future a parity of the purchasing power of milk with
its purchasing power in the base period. The Secretary's
conclusion must lie in the realm of hope or opinion and
not in that of ascertained fact. The major objective of

H. P. HOOD & SONS v. U. S.
588

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

the Act is in truth to raise prices paid farmers for milk.
The upward limit is really left to the Secretary's uncontrolled discretion.
Turn now to another alleged standard which is to control the Secretary's action. He is not to raise prices so
fast as to injure the interest of the consumer but is to
raise them gradually by correction of the current level at
as rapid a rate as he deems to be in the public interest
and feasible in view of consumptive demand. It is fair
to ask whether this constitutes a standard at all. What is
the public interest? Must not Congress ascertain and
declare it? What is feasible in the way of regulation? Is
not this a matter for legislative judgment. How is any
one to tell whether the Secretary has disobeyed the mandate of Congress in these respects?
There is in the Act a further delegation of power. Congress might, although connitting to the Secretary's will
and judgment the matters above enumerated, have directed him how to regulate the industry if he determined
so to do. It might have considered the possible modes of
regulation and provided which of them the Secretary
should adopt. The Act does no such thing. It leaves to
the Secretary the choice of different and mutually exclusive methods of control.
Section 8c (5) applies to orders affecting milk and its
products. Section 8c (7) refers to orders affecting any of
the commodities named in the Act. The first requires that
any order affecting milk must contain one, and may contain others, of seven specified conditions. The second
requires that in any order there must be included one,
and there may be included others, or four conditions.
These sections give the Secretary the choice of three independent programs for raising the price of milk, namely,
bargaining with handlers, stabilizing the retail price, or
fixing prices to be paid producers.
Within each, variation of the widest sort is allowed. Moreover, the Act permits alternative schemes for distributing amongst the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

producers the dollar value of milk sold in the area to
which the Secretary's order applies. The differences between the permissible schemes are not matters of mere
detail but are basic and fundamental.
In respect of the choice of method, the only guide is
the declaration of policy embodied in § 2. If the Secretary is of opinion that one method is more likely to raise
prices than another he is at liberty to put into the form
of an order what is tantamount to a statute prescribing
the method of his choice. Thus the Secretary is to decide
not only whether there is to be a law but, as well, the
nature of the law to be enacted.
What was said concerning unconstitutional delegation
of legislative power in PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan,293
U. S. 388, and Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States,
295 U. S. 495, applies with equal force here. Comparison
of the provisions of the Act respecting flue-cured tobacco,
which are summarized in Mulford v. Smith, ante, p. 38,
with those applicable to milk, will disclose the fundamental difference between the administrative character
of the powers delegated in the case of tobacco and the
legislative character of those delegated in the case of
milk. No authority cited by the Government presents
a situation comparable to that here disclosed. It would
not be profitable to analyze each of the cases because in
each the question of the nature of the statutory standard and its application in the administration of the statute involved depended upon the field which the legislation covered. Where delegation has been sustained the
court has been careful to point out the circumstances
which made it possible to prescribe a standard by which
administrative action was confined and directed. Such a
standard, as respects milk marketing, is lacking in the
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937.
I think that the decree should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

join in this opinion.

and MR.JUSTICE BUTLER

