MAYTAG CO. v. HURLEY CO.
241

Statement of the Case.

The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals with instructions to entertain the appeal and direct the District Court to reform
its decree in accordance with the views herein expressed.
Reversed.
MAYTAG COMPANY v. HURLEY MACHINE CO.
ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 76.

Argued April 19, 20, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

Unreasonable neglect and delay of a patentee in suing upon or disclaiming a claim not definitely distinguishable from another adjudged invalid for anticipation and disclaimed, avoids the entire
patent. R. S. §§ 4917 and 4922. P. 245.
Snyder patent No. 1,866,779, issued to Maytag Company,
assignee, embracing claims for a washing machine and a method
of washing fabrics, held invalidated.
96 F. 2d 87, affirmed.
100 F. 2d 218, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 666, to review decrees in the Second Circuit denying relief in two infringement suits upon
the ground that the claims sued upon had been anticipated; and (306 U. S. 626) to review a decree in the
Eighth Circuit upholding the same claims as valid. The
claims sued upon were three of thirty-six apparatus
claims, for a washing machine, embraced in the patent.
The same patent included also three claims for a method
of washing fabrics, two of which had been disclaimed; the
third furnished the basis for the present decision.
* Together with No. 77, Maytag Co. v. Easy Washing Machine Co.,
also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit; and No. 661, General Electric Supply Corp. v. Maytag Co., on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Mr. Wallace R. Lane, with whom Messrs. Thomas G.
Haight, Nelson E. Johnson, and Oscar W. Jeffery were on
the brief, for the Maytag Company.
Mr. William H. Davis, with whom Messrs. Dean S.
Edmonds and George E. Faithfull were on the brief, for
respondents in Nos. 76 and 77, and petitioner in No. 661.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are patent infringement suits in which certiorari
was granted because of a conflict of decision.1 Apparatus
claims 23, 26, and 29 of the Snyder patent, No. 1,866,779,
which are here involved, have been held invalid in the
Second Circuit by reason of anticipation; and have been
adjudged valid in the Eighth Circuit. We need not resolve the conflict, since we are of opinion the patent is
void for failure to disclaim claim 39.
The patent, issued July 12, 1932, to the Maytag Company as assignee, contains thirty-nine claims, thirty-six
of which are for a washing machine and three (Nos. 1, 38
and 39) for a method of washing fabrics. In 1935 the
company obtained a decree in a suit against the Brooklyn
Edison Company for infringement of apparatus claims
23 and 26 and method claim 38.2 The Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed as to all three
claims, holding they did not disclose novelty.3 This
court refused certiorari and the company promptly disclaimed two of the method claims, 1 and 38, but did
not disclaim 39. In the instant cases infringement of
apparatus claims 23, 26, and 29, is charged, but claim 39
'Maytag Co. v. Brooklyn Edison Co., 86 F. 2d 625; Maytag Co.
v. Easy Washing Mach. Corp., 96 F. 2d 87; General Electric Supply
Corp. v. Maytag Co., 100 F. 2d 218.
'11 F. Supp. 743.
'Maytag Co. v. Brooklyn Edison Co., supra.

MAYTAG CO. v. HURLEY CO.
243

Opinion of the Court.

is not in suit, nor has it been made the basis of any
other suit.
" There has been unreasonable neglect or delay in entering a disclaimer of claim 39 within the meaning of
R. S. 4917, and R. S. 4922,1 unless that claim is "definitely distinguishable from the parts claimed without
right,'"'-that is, the disclaimed method claims 1 and 38.
This must be so, for the company, by disclaiming those
claims, has confessed that the patentee therein claimed
"more than that of which he was the original or first
inventor or discoverer" and that the company, as assignee
of the patent, therefore, "did not choose to claim or to
hold" the method therein disclosed "by virtue of the
patent or assignment."
Thus the company elected the course it would pursue
with knowledge of the options open to it. Claim 38,
which had been adjudged invalid, need not have been
disclaimed, but, alone or with other claims, might have
been made the basis of another suit against a different
party,-the petitioner in No. 661, for example'
If the
claims were held invalid in such later suit the court might
find the patent wholly void, for failure seasonably to disclaim. To avoid the risk of such a possible outcome, the
company chose the other alternative of disclaiming 38,
and relying on other claims.7 In the Brooklyn Edison
case the district court said concerning claim 1, "The
quoted verbiage is different from that of Claim 38, but
the same method or process is thought to be equally embodied in both." ' This expression presumably caused
the company also to disclaim claim 1 as not "definitely
distinguishable" from claim 38.
'35 U. S. C. §§ 65 and 71.
Triplett v. Lowell, 297 U. S. 638, 642.
Ibid. 645.
'Compare Ensten v. Simon, Ascher & Co., 282 U. S. 445.
' 11 F. Supp. 758.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

If claim 39 describes the same method as claim 38, it
follows that failure either to sue on 39 or to disclaim it
along with 38 invalidates the patent.
The two are copied in the margin.' We think they describe but a single method. The company insists that
the crucial difference lies in the fact that in 38 the moving fluid in the tub is said substantially to suspend the
fabrics, whereas in 39 the same agency is said to cause
the fabrics to be freely moved about. But the difference
'The difference in verbiage relied on to distinguish the claims is
italicized.
"38. The method of washing
fabrics by forcing cleansing liquid
through and around them while
substantially suspended by the
action of the fluid, as distinguished from pulling fabrics
through the fluid against scrubbing corrugations, or otherwise
scrubbing them by mechanical
means, comprising immersing the
fabrics in a washing fluid in a
container, then vigorously and
rapidly impelling the washing
fluid in one and then in an opposite outward circulatory direction away from the plane of the
source of impulsion and through
the fabrics and circumferentially
along the interior of the container
in rapid succession, and causing
these violently opposed currents
of fluid to meet and flow inwardly and toward the central
portion of the container, and toward the source of impulsion
thereby substantially suspending
the fabrics in the fluid and cleansing them while thus suspended."

"39. The method of washing
fabrics by forcing cleansing fluid
through them while substantially
suspended by the action of the
fluid, as distinguished from pulling fabrics through the fluid
against scrubbing corrugations, or
otherwise scrubbing them by
mechanical means, comprising immersing the fabrics in a washing
fluid in a container, then vigorously agitating the washing fluid
and rapidly forcing it toward the
fabrics and away from the plane
of the source of agitation vertically along the interior surface
of the container first in one and
then in an opposite circumferential direction, back and forth
through and around the fabrics,
and causing the violently moving
opposed currents of liquid to
meet and flow inwardly and vertically toward the source of agitation whereby the fabrics are
caused to be freely moved about
by the action of the fluid and
cleansed while thus moved."

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
243

247

Syllabus.

in verbiage describes no difference in operation or result.
We conclude that, when read in their entirety, they
describe the same method.
The decrees in Nos. 76 and 77 are affirmed; that in No.
661 is reversed.
Nos. 76 and 77, affirmed.
No. 661, reversed.

GUARANTY TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, v. HENWOOD,

TRUSTEE,

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 384.

Argued February 8, 9, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

Railroad bonds, secured by trust mortgage, which were sold in this
country for dollars in 1912, were expressed to be payable here in
gold coin of the United States equal to the then standard of
weight and fineness or, at the option of the holder, to be payable
in several foreign countries, including Holland, in specified amounts
of the moneys there current, which amounts were the 1912 exchange
equivalents of American dollar value per bond. In a bankruptcy
reorganization proceeding, holders of the bonds asserted their
option of payment abroad in Dutch guilders, and asked that
their claims be allowed at their guilder value, greater in dollars than
the face of their bonds. Held:
1. In determining the nature of the obligation, bonds and mortgage must be construed together. P. 253.
2. The bonds and mortgage are domestic obligations, to be
interpreted and enforced according to the law of this country.
P. 254.
3. The bonds are obligations "payable in money of the United
States," within the meaning of the Joint Resolution of June 5,
1933, and under that Resolution, are payable dollar for dollar in
present legal tender. P. 256.
*

Together with No. 495, Chemical Bank & Trust Co., Trustee,

v. Henwood, Trustee, also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

