156

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

"grandfather" certificate, the Commission rightly rejected
the application.
But the District Court set aside the Commission's
order on another ground. It held that when the Commission rejected appellee's claim under the "grandfather
clause" another provision of § 206 (a) sprang into relevance, to wit "Otherwise the application for such certificate shall be decided in accordance with the procedure
provided for in section 207 (a) of this part and such certificate shall be issued or denied accordingly." We do
not read the statute as laying a compulsion upon the
Commission to canvass all the questions of public and
private interest that are implicit in an application for a
certificate based on "public convenience and necessity"
when the applicant himself only seeks the favor of the
"grandfather clause" and makes no claim, either before
the Commission or in his bill seeking to enjoin its action,
to have the Commission act outside the "grandfather
clause."
Reversed.
FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION v. PACIFIC
POWER & LIGHT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 508.

Argued March 9, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

Section 313 (b) of the Federal Power Act, forbidding dispositions,
consolidations, acquisitions, etc. of public utility facilities without
prior authorization by order of the Federal Power Commission,
further provides that if the Commission after notice and oppor-

tunity for hearing finds that a proposed disposition will be consistent with the public interest, it shall approve the same. Held:
1. That an 'order of the Commission denying an application of

FED. POWER COMM'N v. PACIFIC CO.
156

157

Opinion of the Court.

two power companies for approval of a proposed transfer, upon the
ground that the applicants had failed to establish that the transfer
would be consistent with the public interest, was reviewable on
questions of law under § 313 (b) of the Act, which provides that
any party to a proceeding under the Act aggrieved by an order
issued by the Commission in such proceeding may obtain review
of such order in the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 159.
2. The objection that review of the order presents no case or
controversy, because the court can not itself approve the proposed
transfer, is rejected, since, without intruding upon the province of
the Commission, the court can adjudicate the legal principles involved and its judgment will be final and binding on the Commission. P. 159.
98 F. 2d 835, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 593, to review an order of the
court below which denied a motion to dismiss a petition
to review an order of the Federal Power Commission.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor

General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold,
and Messrs. Paul A. Freund, Robert M.

Cooper, David

W. Robinson, Jr., and Louis W. McKernan were on the

brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. A. J. G. Priest and John A. Laing, with whom
Mr. Henry S. Gray were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the
Court.

opinion of the

The case is here on certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, granted because of the intrinsic importance of the issue raised and of a conflict
between the decision below, 98 F. 2d 835, and that of the

Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Newport
Electric Corp. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 97 F. 2d 580
(C. C. A. 2d).

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The sole issue before us is whether an order of the
Federal Power Commission, denying an application under
§ 203 (a)1 of the Federal Power Act as amended, [49
Stat. 849] is reviewable under § 313 (b) of that Act.
The Inland Power & Light Company, an Oregon corporation, owns three hydro-electric projects in Oregon
and Washington, two of which are operated under license
of the Federal Power Commission, and the third, under
a permit issued by the Secretary of the Interior. The
Pacific Power & Light Company, a Maine corporation,
is engaged in generating and distributing electric energy
in Washington and Oregon, and owns and operates facilities for interstate transmission of electricity. The Inland
and Pacific Companies filed a joint application with the
Power Commission for approval, under §§ 8 and 203 of
the Act, of a proposed transfer of all the assets, including
licenses, of Inland to Pacific, and of the termination of
Inland's existence. Having found after due hearing and
consideration that "applicants have failed to establish
that said transfer will be consistent with the public interest within the contemplation of § 203 (a) of the Federal Power Act," the Commission ordered that "the application be and the same hereby is denied."
Invoking § 313 (b) of the Federal Power Act, the applicants initiated the present proceedings in the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to review the
"No public utility shall sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of the
whole of its facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission,
or any part thereof of a value in excess of $50,000, or by any means
whatsoever, directly or indirectly, merge or consolidate such facilities
or any part thereof with those of any other person, or purchase,
acquire, or take any security of any other public utility, without first
having secured an order of the Commission authorizing it to do so. ...
After notice and opportunity for hearing, if the Commission finds that
the proposed disposition, consolidation, acquisition, or control will
be consistent with the public interest, it shall approve the same."

FED. POWER COMM'N v. PACIFIC CO.
156

159

Opinion of the Court.

order of the Commission as unwarranted in law and unsupported in its findings. The exact scope of the prayer
is postponed for later consideration. The Power Commission challenged the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of Appeals by a motion to dismiss the petition on the
ground that the court was without jurisdiction under
§ 313 (b), since the order sought to be set aside was negative in character. The denial of that motion brought
the case here.
If the Federal Power Act had formally taken over the
statutory provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Act pertaining to review of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, the decision in Rochester Telephone Corp.
v. United States, ante, p. 125, would dispose of this case
and sustain the assumption of jurisdiction below. But
the Power Act contains a distinctive formulation of the
conditions under which resort to the courts may be made
and Congress determines the scope of jurisdiction of the
lower federal courts. Section 313 (b) provides that "Any
party to a proceeding under this Act aggrieved by an
order issued by the Commission in such proceeding may
obtain review of such order in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States." The denial by the Commission of approval of the application by petitioners of
the transfer of Inland to Pacific as not "consistent with
the public interest" was an "order," and the petitioners
were "aggrieved" by it since without such approval the
transfer was forbidden. § 203 (a). Thus the statutory
scheme of the Power Act only reinforces the analysis
made in the Rochester case.
But it is urged that review of the Power Commission's
order does not present a "Case" or "Controversy," because the court itself cannot lift the prohibition of the
statute by granting permission for the transfer, nor order
the Commission to grant such permission. And so it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

claimed that any action of a court in setting aside the
order of the Commission would be an empty gesture, since
without permission a transfer would be unlawful. But
this proves too much. In none of the situations in which
an action of the Interstate Commerce Commission or of a
similar federal regulatory body comes for scrutiny before
a federal court can judicial action supplant the discretionary authority of a commission. A federal court cannot fix
rates nor make divisions of joint rates nor relieve from the
long-short haul clause nor formulate car practices. So
here it is immaterial that the court itself cannot approve
or disapprove the transfer. The court has power to pass
judgment upon challenged principles of law insofar as
they are relevant to the disposition made by the Commission. ". . . a judgment rendered will be a final and
indisputable basis of action between the commission and
the defendant." Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird,
194 U. S. 25, 38. In making such a judgment the court
does not intrude upon the province of the Commission,
while the constitutional requirements of "Case" or "Controversy" are satisfied. For purposes of judicial finality
there is no more reason for assuming that a Commission
will disregard the direction of a reviewing court than
that a lower court will do so.
Affirmed.

