268

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

307 U. S.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR.
JUSTICE BUTLER and MR. JUSTICE STONE think the judgments in these cases should be affirmed, for reasons stated
in the opinion of MR. JUSTICE STONE in No. 384, Guaranty
Trust Co. v. Henwood, and No. 495, Chemical Bank &
Trust Co. v. Henwood, ante, p. 247.
LANE v. WILSON ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 460. Argued March 3, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.
1. A negro who is denied by state registration officials the right of
registration, prerequisite to the right to vote, under color of a state
registration statute which, in violation of the Fifteenth Amendment,
works discrimination against the colored race, has a right of aciion
in the federal court for damages against such officials under R. S.
1979; 8 U. S. C. § 43. Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475, distinguished.
P. 274.
2. This resort to the federal court may be had without first exhausting the judicial (distinguished from administrative) remedies of
the state courts. P. 274.
3. Oklahoma statutes made registration prerequisite to voting, and
provided generally that all citizens qualified to vote in 1916 who
failed, to register between April 30 and May 11, 1916, should be
perpetually disfranchised, excepting those who voted in 1914. The
effect was that white people who were on the lists in 1914 in virtue
of the provision of the Oklahoma Constitution called the "Grandfather Clause" which this Court in 1915 adjudged unconstitutional,
Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347, were entitled to vote;
whereas colored people kept from registering and voting by that
clause would remain forever disfranchised unless they applied for
registration during the limited period of not more than 12 days.
Held repugnant to the Fifteenth Amendment. P. 275.
98 F. 2d 980, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 591, to review the affirmance of
a judgment, on a verdict directed for defendants in an
action for damages, under R. S. 1979.

LANE v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

268

Messrs. Charles A. Chandler and James M. Nabrit, Jr.
for petitioner.
Messrs. Charles G. Watts and Joseph C. Stone, with
whom Mr. CharlesA. Moon was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case is here on certiorarito review the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
affirming that of the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Oklahoma, entered upon a directed
verdict in favor of the defendants. The action was one
for $5,000 damages brought under § 1979 of the Revised Statutes (8 U. S. C. § 43), by a colored citizen
claiming discriminatory treatment resulting from electoral
legislation of Oklahoma, in violation of the Fifteenth
Amendment. Certiorariwas granted, 305 U. S. 591, because of the importance of the question and an asserted
conflict with the decision in Guinn v. United States,
238 U. S. 347.
The constitution under which Oklahoma was admitted
into the Union regulated the suffrage by Article III,
whereby its "qualified electors" were to be "citizens of
the State . . . who are over the age of twenty-one years"
with disqualifications in the case of felons, paupers and
lunatics. Soon after its admission the suffrage provisions
of the Oklahoma Constitution were radically amended by
the addition of a literacy test from which white voters
were in effect relieved through the operation of a "grandfather clause." The clause was stricken down by this
Court as violative of the prohibition against discrimination "on account of race, color or previous condition of
servitude" of the Fifteenth Amendment. This outlawry
occurred on June 21, 1915. In the meantime the Oklahoma general election of 1914 had been based on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

offending "grandfather clause." After the invalidation of
that clause a special session of the Oklahoma legislature
enacted a new scheme for registration as a prerequisite to
voting. Oklahoma Laws of 1916, Act of February 26,
1916, c. 24. Section 4 of this statute (now § 5654, Oklahoma Statutes 1931, 26 Okla. St. Ann. 74) 1 was obviously
'"It shall be the duty of the precinct registrar to register each
qualified elector of his election precinct who makes application between the thirtieth day of April, 1916, and the eleventh day of May,
1916, and such person applying shall at the time he applies to register
be a qualified elector in such precinct and he shall comply with the
provisions of this act, and it shall be the duty of every qualified
elector to register within such time; provided, if any elector should
be absent from the county of his residence during such period
of time, or is prevented by sickness or unavoidable misfortune from
registering with the precinct registrar within such time, he may
register with such precinct registrar at any time after the tenth day
of May, 1916, up to and including the thirtieth day of June, 1916,
but the precinct registrar shall register no person under this provision unless he be satisfied that such person was absent from the
county or was prevented from registering by sickness or unavoidable
misfortune, as hereinbefore provided. And provided that it shall be
the mandatory duty of every precinct registrar to issue registration
certificates to every qualified elector who voted at the general election
held in this state on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
November, 1914, without the application of said elector for registration, and, to deliver such certificate to such elector if he is still a
qualified elector in such precinct and the failure to so register such
elector who voted in such election held in November, 1914, shall
not preclude or prevent such elector from voting in any election
in this state; and provided further, that wherever any elector is
refused registration by any registration officer such action may be
reviewed by the district court of the county by the aggrieved elector
by his filing within ten days a petition with the Clerk of said court,
whereupon summons shall be issued to said registrar requiring him to
answer within ten days, and the district court shall be a expeditious
hearing and from his judgment an appeal will lie at the instance of
either party to the Supreme Court of the State as in civil cases;
and provided further, that the provisions of this act shall not apply,
to any school district elections. Provided further, that each county

LANE v. WILSON.
268

Opinion of the Court.

directed towards the consequences of the decision in
Guinn v. United States, supra. Those who had voted in
the general election of 1914, automatically remained
qualified voters. The new registration requirements affected only others. These had to apply for registration
between April 30, 1916 and May 11, 1916, if qualified at
that time, with an extension to June 30, 1916, given only
to those "absent from the county . . .during such period
of time, or . . .prevented by sickness or unavoidable
misfortune from registering . . . within such time." The
crux of the present controversy is the validity of this
registration scheme, with its dividing line between white
citizens who had voted under the "grandfather clause"
immunity prior to Guinn v. United States, supra, and
citizens who were outside it, and the not more than 12
days as the normal period of registration for the theretofore proscribed class.
The petitioner, a colored citizen of Oklahoma, who was
the plaintiff below and will hereafter be referred to as
such, sued three county election officials for declining to
register him on October 17, 1934. He was qualified for
registration in 1916 but did not then get on the registration list. The evidence is in conflict whether he presented
himself in that year for registration and, if so, under
what circumstances registration was denied him. The
fact is that plaintiff did not get on the register in 1916.
Under the terms of the statute he thereby permanently
lost the right to register and hence the right to vote.
The central claim of plaintiff is that of the unconstitutionality of § 5654. The defendants joined issue on this
claim and further insisted that if there had been illegality
election board in this state shall furnish to each precinct election
board in the respective counties a list of the voters who voted at

the election in November, 1914, and such list shall be conclusive
evidence of the right of such person to vote."

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

in a denial of the plaintiff's right to registration, his
proper recourse was to the courts of Oklahoma. The District Court took the case from the jury and its action was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. It found no
proof of discrimination against negroes in the administration of § 5654 and denied that the legislation was in
conflict with the Fifteenth Amendment. 98 F. 2d 980.
The defendants urge two bars to the plaintiff's recovery, apart from the constitutional validity of § 5654.
They say that on the plaintiff's own assumption of its
invalidity, there is no Oklahoma statute under which he
could register and therefore no right to registration has
been denied. Secondly, they argue that the state procedure for determining claims of discrimination must be
employed before invoking the federal judiciary. These
contentions will be considered first, for the disposition of
a constitutional question must be reserved to the last.
The first objection derives from a misapplication of
Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475. In that case a bill in
equity was brought by a colored man on behalf of himself "and on behalf of more than five thousand negroes,
citizens of the county of Montgomery, Alabama, similarly situated" which in effect asked the federal court "to
supervise the voting in that State by officers of the court."
What this Court called a "new and extraordinary situation" was found "strikingly" to reinforce "the argument
that equity cannot undertake now, any more than it
has in the past, to enforce political rights." See 189 U. S.
at 487.2 Apart from this traditional restriction upon the
exercise of equitable jurisdiction there was another difficulty in Giles v. Harris. The plaintiff there was in effect asking for specific performance of his right under
'See also, In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200; Walton v. House of Rep.,
265 U. S. 487; 4 PoMERoy, EQuirr § 1743 et seq.; Pound, Equitable
Relief Against Defamation and Injuries to Personality, 29 HRv. L.
REV. 640, 681.

LANE v. WILSON.
268

Opinion of the Court.

Alabama electoral legislation. This presupposed the
validity of the legislation under which he was claiming.
But the whole theory of his bill was the invalidity of this
legislation. Naturally enough, this Court took his claim
at its face value and found no legislation on the basis
of which specific performance could be decreed.
This case is very different from Giles v. Harris-the
difference having been explicitly foreshadowed by Giles v.
Harris itself. In that case this Court declared "we are
not prepared to say that an action at law could not be
maintained on the facts alleged in the bill." 189 U. S.
at 485. That is precisely the basis of the present action,
brought under the following "appropriate legislation" of
Congress to enforce the Fifteenth Amendment:
"Every person who, under color of any statute, . . . of
any State or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected,
any citizen of the United States . . . within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and
laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at
law.

. . ."

3"If
the sections of the constitution concerning registration were
illegal in their inception, it would be a new doctrine in constitutional
law that the original invalidity could be cured by an administra-

tion which defeated their intent. We express no opinion as to the
alleged fact of their unconstitutionality beyond saying that we are
not willing to assume that they are valid, in the face of the allegations and main object of the bill, for the purpose of granting the
relief which it was necessary to pray in order that that object should
be secured." 189 U. S. at 487. Recognition of the difference between
an action for damages and the equitable relief prayed for in Giles v.
Harriswas repeated at the close of the opinion. See 189 U. S. at 488.
Justices Harlan, Brewer, and Brown were of the opinion that it was
competent for a federal court to grant even the equitable relief asked
for in Giles v. Harris.

'The Act of April 20, 1871, c. 22, 17 Stat. 13, which became
§ 1979 of the Revised Statutes, and is now 8 U. S. C. § 43.
161299°-39-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The Fifteenth Amendment secures freedom from discrimination on account of race in matters affecting the franchise. Whosoever "under color of any statute" subjects
another to such discrimination thereby deprives him of
what the Fifteenth Amendment secures and, under § 1979
becomes "liable to the party injured in an action at law."
The theory of the plaintiff's action is that the defendants,
acting under color of § 5654, did discriminate against him
because that Section inherently operates discriminatorily.
If this claim is sustained his right to sue under R. S.
§ 1979 follows. The basis of this action is inequality of
treatment though under color of law, not denial of the
right to vote. Compare Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S.
536.
The other preliminary objection to the maintenance
of this action is likewise untenable. To vindicate his
present grievance the plaintiff did not have to pursue
whatever remedy may have been open to him in the state
courts. Normally, the state legislative process, sometimes
exercised through administrative powers conferred on
state courts, must be completed before resort to the federal courts can be had. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line
Co., 211 U. S. 210. But the state procedure open for one
in the plaintiff's situation (§ 5654) has all the indicia of a
conventional judicial proceeding and does not confer upon
the Oklahoma courts any of the discretionary or initiatory
functions that are characteristic of administrative agencies. See Section 1 of Article IV of the Oklahoma Constitution; Oklahoma Cotton Ginners' Assn. v. State, 174
Okla. 243; 51 P. 2d 327. Barring only exceptional circumstances, see e. g. Gilchrist v. Interborough Rapid
Transit Co., 279 U. S. 159, or explicit statutory requirements, e. g. 48 Stat. 775; 50 Stat. 738; 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1),
resort to a federal court may be had without first exhausting the judicial remedies of state courts. Bacon v. Rut-

LANE v. WILSON.
268

275

Opinion of the Court.

land R. Co., 232 U. S. 134; Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Kuykendall, 265 U. S. 196.
We therefore cannot avoid passing on the merits of
plaintiff's constitutional claims. The reach of the Fifteenth Amendment against contrivances by a state to
thwart equality in the enjoyment of the right to vote by
citizens of the United States regardless of race or color,
has been amply expounded by prior decisions. Guinn v.
United States, 238 U. S. 347; Myers v. Anderson, 238
U. S.368. The Amendment nullifies sophisticated as well
as simple-minded modes of discrimination. It hits onerous procedural requirements which effectively handicap
exercise of the franchise by the colored race although the
abstract right to vote may remain unrestricted as to race.
When in Guinn v. United States, supra, the Oklahoma
"grandfather clause" was found violative of the Fifteenth
Amendment, Oklahoma was confronted with the serious
task of devising a new registration system consonant with
her own political ideas but also consistent with the Federal Constitution. We are compelled to conclude, however reluctantly, that the legislation of 1916 partakes too
much of the infirmity of the "grandfather clause" to be
able to survive.
Section 5652 of the Oklahoma statutes makes registration a prerequisite to voting.' By §§ 5654 and 5659' all
"It shall be the duty of every qualified elector in this state to
register as an 'elector under the provisions of this Act, and no elector
shall be permitted to vote at any election unless he shall register as
herein provided, and no elector shall be permitted to vote in any
primary election of any political party except of the political party
of which his registration certificate shows him to be a member."
§ 2, Oklahoma Laws of 1916, c. 24.
"Any person who may become a qualified elector in any precinct
in this State after the tenth day of May, 1916, or after the closing
of any other registration period, may register as an elector by making
application to the registrar of the precinct in which he is a qualified

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

citizens who were qualified to vote in 1916 but had not
voted in 1914 were required to register, save in the exceptional circumstances, between April 30 and May 11, 1916,
and in default of such registration were perpetually disenfranchised. Exemption from this onerous provision was
enjoyed by all who had registered in 1914. But this registration was held under the statute which was condemned
in the Guinn case. Unfair discrimination was thus retained by automatically granting voting privileges for life
to the white citizens whom the constitutional "grandfather clause" had sheltered while subjecting colored citizens to a new burden. The practical effect of the 1916
legislation was to accord to the members of the negro race
who had been discriminated against in the outlawed registration system of 1914, not more than 12 days within
which to reassert constitutional rights which this Court
found in the Guinn case to have been improperly taken
from them. We believe that the opportunity thus given
negro voters to free themselves from the effects of discrimination to which they should never have been subjected was too cabined and confined. The restrictions
imposed must be judged with reference to those for whom
they were designed. It must be remembered that we are
dealing with a body of citizens lacking the habits and
traditions of political independence and otherwise living
in circumstances which do not encourage initiative and
enterprise. To be sure, in exceptional cases a supplevoter, not more than twenty nor less than ten days before the day
of holding any election and upon complying with all the terms and
provisions of this Act, and it shall be the duty of precinct registrars
to register such qualified electors in their precinct under the terms
and provisions of this Act, beginning twenty days before the date
of holding any election and continuing for a period of ten days.
Precinct registrars shall have no authority to register electors at any
other time except as provided in this Act and no registration certificate issued by any precinct registrar at any other time except as
herein provided shall be valid." § 9, Oklahoma Laws of 1916, c. 24.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
268

Syllabus.

mental period was available. But the narrow basis of the
supplemental registration, the very brief normal period
of relief for the persons and purposes in question, the
practical difficulties, of which the record in this case gives
glimpses, inevitable in the administration of such strict
registration provisions, leave no escape from the conclusion that the means chosen as substitutes for the invalidated "grandfather clause" were themselves invalid under
the Fifteenth Amendment. They operated unfairly
against the very class on whose behalf the protection of
the Constitution was here successfully invoked.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must,
therefore, be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
think that the court below reached the right conclusion
and that its judgment should be affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or disposition of this case.
O'MALLEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WOODROUGH ET UX.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 810.

Argued April 28, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

1. The provision of § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1936, requiring
that there be included in gross income, for the purpose of computing the federal income tax, the compensation of "judges of courts

of the United States taking office after June 6, 1932"--which
provision was a reenactment of a similar provision contained in
the Revenue Act of June 6, 1932, and part of a taxing measure of
general, nondiscriminatory application to all earners of income,held constitutional as applied to a judge who was appointed to

