GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
243

247

Syllabus.

in verbiage describes no difference in operation or result.
We conclude that, when read in their entirety, they
describe the same method.
The decrees in Nos. 76 and 77 are affirmed; that in No.
661 is reversed.
Nos. 76 and 77, affirmed.
No. 661, reversed.

GUARANTY TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, v. HENWOOD,

TRUSTEE,

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 384.

Argued February 8, 9, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

Railroad bonds, secured by trust mortgage, which were sold in this
country for dollars in 1912, were expressed to be payable here in
gold coin of the United States equal to the then standard of
weight and fineness or, at the option of the holder, to be payable
in several foreign countries, including Holland, in specified amounts
of the moneys there current, which amounts were the 1912 exchange
equivalents of American dollar value per bond. In a bankruptcy
reorganization proceeding, holders of the bonds asserted their
option of payment abroad in Dutch guilders, and asked that
their claims be allowed at their guilder value, greater in dollars than
the face of their bonds. Held:
1. In determining the nature of the obligation, bonds and mortgage must be construed together. P. 253.
2. The bonds and mortgage are domestic obligations, to be
interpreted and enforced according to the law of this country.
P. 254.
3. The bonds are obligations "payable in money of the United
States," within the meaning of the Joint Resolution of June 5,
1933, and under that Resolution, are payable dollar for dollar in
present legal tender. P. 256.
*

Together with No. 495, Chemical Bank & Trust Co., Trustee,

v. Henwood, Trustee, also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

307 U. S.

The promises of payment, with interest, in alternative currencies
were not in barter for commodities. Interest is not paid on commodities but on monetary obligations. These promises are not
separate and independent contracts or obligations, but parts of
one and the same monetary obligation of the debtor. P. 255.
4. The proposition that the obligation was never payable in
United States money because the option to receive payment in
dollars had never been exercised, is rejected. P. 256.
5. The proposition that the Resolution, if construed to forbid
enforcement of the option to demand payment in guilders, nullifies
contractual rights in violation of the Fifth Amendment, is rejected.
P. 258.
Domestic contracts between private parties can not create vested
rights restricting the exercise of a power of Congress.
98 F. 2d 160, 179, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 588, 594, to review decrees of the
court below which affirmed orders of the District Court
fixing allowances to holders of railroad bonds in a reorganization case.
Mr. John W. Davis on the reargument, and with Mr.
Ralph M. Carson on the original argument, for petitioner in No. 384. Messrs. Edwin S. S. Sunderland, Malcolm Fooshee, and J. Paschall Davis were with them on
the briefs.
Messrs. A. H. Kiskaddon and Carleton S. Hadley for
Henwood, Trustee, and Mr. George L. Buland, with whom
Mr. Ben C. Dey was on the brief, for the Southern Pacific
Co., respondents in No. 384,-on the reargument and the
original argument.
Mr. Alfred H. Phillips, on the reargument and on the
original argument, for petitioner in No. 495.
Mr. Carleton S. Hadley, with whom Mr. A. H. Kiskaddon was on the briefs, on the reargument and on the
original argument, for respondents in No. 495.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Solicitor General Jackson, Messrs. Paul A. Freund, Ed-

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

249

Opinion of the Court.

ward H. Foley, Jr., Bernard Bernstein, John W. Pehle,
and Joseph B. Friedman,on behalf of the United States,
urging applicability of the Joint Resolution to the obligations involved; and by Messrs. Harry Hoffman and
Clifford R. Schuman, on behalf of Anglo-Continentale
Treuhand, A. G., et al., bondholders.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In the bankruptcy reorganization of the St. Louis
Southwestern Railway Company, a Missouri Corporation, petitioners filed claims for bondholders. They
asserted a right under the bonds to be paid in Dutch guilders, and asked that their claims-based upon guilder
value-be allowed for $37,335,525.12. The trustee in
bankruptcy contended, and the courts below held that
the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933,' made the bonds
dischargeable by payment of current legal tender United
States money,' and petitioners' claims were accordingly
allowed for $21,638,000.00, the face amount of their bonds
in dollars.
These bonds, secured by a trust mortgage, were issued
and sold in the United States in 1912. Purchasers paid
and the railroad received United States dollars, and until
1936 interest was regularly paid in dollars.
The asserted right to guilder payment rests upon a
provision of the bonds concededly granting holders an
148 Stat. 112, 31 U. S. C. 463.
2 98 F. 2d 160, 179. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit

previously held to the contrary, Anglo-Continentale Treuhand, A. G.
v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 81 F. 2d 11, cert. den. 298 U. S.
655, and the Court of Appeals of New York did likewise in Zurich
General & A. L. Ins. Co. v. Bethlehem Steel Co., and Anglo-Continentale Treuhand v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 279 N. Y. 495, 790; 18
N.E. 2d 673; 19 N. E. 2d 89; post, p. 265. Because of the divergence
of views on this important question, we granted certiorari, 305

U. S. 588.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

option to elect payment in dollars, guilders, pounds,
marks, or francs. This multiple currency provision was
authorized by the following terms of the mortgage securing the bonds:
"... the . . . Bonds may be payable, at the option
of the holder, both as to principal and interest, at some
one or more of the following places in addition to the
City of New York, and in the moneys current at such
respective places of payment, at the following rates of
exchange or equivalents of $1,000, viz.: In London, England, £205.15.2 Sterling, or in Amsterdam, Holland, 2490
guilders, or in Berlin, Germany, 4200 marks, D. R. W., or
in Paris, France, 5180 francs; . . ."
The bonds themselves provide:
"St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, . . . for
value received, hereby promises to pay to the bearer, or,
if registered, to the registered holder, of this bond, on
the first day of January, 1952, at its office or agency in
the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York,
One Thousand Dollars in gold coin of the United States
of America, of or equal to the standard of weight and
fineness as it existed January 1, 1912, or in London,
England, £205 15s 2d, or in Amsterdam, Holland, 2490
guilders, or in Berlin, Germany, marks 4200, D. R. W., or
in Paris, France, 5180 francs, and to pay interest thereon,
at the rate of five per cent. per annum, from the first
day of January, 1912, in said respective currencies, semiannually
Since the parties agree that the terms of the bonds
granted holders an option to elect payment in guilders,
we must determine whether, despite this option, the
Joint Resolution operated to make the bonds dischargeable in current United States legal tender-a dollar of
legal tender to be repaid for every dollar borrowed.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

251

Opinion of the Court.

Analysis of the terms of the Resolution' discloses, first,
that Congress declared certain types of contractual provisions against public policy in terms so broad as to include
then existing contracts, as well as those thereafter to be
"JOINT RESOLUTION

"To assure uniform value to the coins and currencies of the
United States.
"Whereas the holding of or dealing in gold affect the public
interest, and are therefore subject to proper regulation and restriction; and
"Whereas the existing emergency has disclosed that provisions of
obligations which purport to give the obligee a right to require
payment in gold or a particular kind of coin or currency of the
United States, or in an amount in money of the United States
measured thereby, obstruct the power of the Congress to regulate
the value of the money of the United States, and are inconsistent
with the declared policy of the Congress to maintain at all times
the equal power of every dollar, coined or issued by the United
States, in the markets and in the payment of debts. Now, therefore, be it
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) every provision
contained in or made with respect to any obligation which purports
to give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a particular
kind of coin or currency, or in an amount in money of the United
States measured thereby, is declared to be against public policy;
and no such provision shall be contained in or made with respect
to any obligation hereafter incurred. Every obligation, heretofore
or hereafter incurred, whether or not any such provision is contained
therein or made with respect thereto, shall be discharged upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which at the time
of payment is legal tender for public and private debts. Any such
provision contained in any law authorizing obligations to be issued
by or under authority of the United States, is hereby repealed,
but the repeal of any such provision shall not invalidate any other
provision or authority contained in such law.
"(b) As used in this resolution, the term 'obligation' means an
obligation (including every obligation of and to the United States,
excepting currency) payable in money of the United States; and
the term 'coin or currency' means coin or currency of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

made. In addition, future use of such proscribed provisions was expressly prohibited, whether actually contained
in an obligation payable in money of the United States or
separately "made with respect thereto." This proscription embraced "every provision" purporting to give an
obligee a right to require payment in (1) gold; (2) a
particular kind of coin or currency of the United States;
or (3) in an amount of United States money measured by
gold or a particular kind of United States coin or
currency.
Having thus unmistakably stamped illegality upon
both outstanding and future contractual provisions designed to require payment by debtors in a frozen money
value rather than in a dollar of legal tender current at
date of payment, Congress-apparently to obviate any
possible misunderstanding as to the breadth of its objective-added, with studied precision, a catchall second
sentence sweeping in "every obligation," existing or future, "payable in money of the United States," irrespecStates, including Federal Reserve notes and circulating notes of
Federal Reserve banks and national banking associations.
"See. 2. The last sentence of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of
section 43 of the Act entitled 'An Act to relieve the existing national
economic emergency by increasing agricultural purchasing power, to
raise revenue for extraordinary expenses incurred by reason of such
emergency, to provide emergency relief with respect to agricultural
indebtedness, to provide for the orderly liquidation of joint-stock
land banks, and for other purposes', approved May 12, 1933, is
amended to read as follows:
"'All coins and currencies of the United States (including Federal
Reserve notes and circulating notes of Federal Reserve banks and
national banking associations) heretofore or hereafter coined or
issued, shall be legal tender for all debts, public and private, public
charges, taxes, duties, and dues, except that gold coins, when below
the standard weight and limit of tolerance provided by law for
the single piece, shall be legal tender only at valuation in proportion to their actual weight.'
"Approved, June 5, 1933, 4.40 p. m."

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

253

Opinion of the Court.

tive of "whether or not any such provision is contained
therein or made with respect thereto." The obligations
hit at by Congress were those "payable in money of the
United States." All such obligations were declared dischargeable "upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin
or currency [of the United States] which at the time of
payment is legal tender for public and private debts."
It results that if petitioners' claims rest upon "obligation[s] .. . payable in money of the United States," by
the terms of the Resolution they shall be discharged upon
payment of current legal tender dollars equal to the number of dollars promised in gold or a particular kind of
money. Decision must therefore turn upon the nature
of the "obligation [s] . . . incurred" by the railroad in its
bond contracts of 1912.
These bonds provide that, "For a description of the
property and franchises mortgaged, the nature and extent
of the security, the rights of the holders of said bonds
under the same and the terms and conditions upon which
such bonds are issued and secured, reference is made to
the . . . Mortgage." In determining the nature of the
railroad's obligation; we, accordingly, look both to the
mortgage and the bonds.
It appears thatThe railroad executed the mortgage in 1912 to the
Guaranty Trust Company of New York as trustee, to
secure forty-year mortgage bonds "limited to an aggregate principal amount of One Hundred Million Dollars
($100,000,000.00) at any one time outstanding . .. to
be payable on the first day of January, 1952, with interest at the rate of five per cent per annum payable semiannually . . ."; the bonds are payable optionally in foreign currencies as indicated above; registration in New
York is required of bonds subjected to registration; to
be valid all bonds must be authenticated by the Guaranty
Trust Company in New York; non-coupon bonds and

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

coupon bonds are interchangeable upon request, but
non-coupon bonds, contain no option for payment in
foreign currencies; the New York trustee is granted broad
supervisory powers (for the benefit of the bondholders)
over finances and operations of the railroad; the railroad
is required to keep an office in New York where bonds
and coupons can be presented for payment, but is not
required to keep any foreign offices; in the event of default in payment of bonds or coupons, the New York
trustee is authorized, through its agents or attorneys, to
take charge of the mortgaged property, to sell under foreclosure proceedings in the United States, and to protect
bondholders' interests by employment of attorneys and
institution of judicial proceedings either in law or equity,
"for the equal benefit of all holders of . . . outstanding
bonds and coupons"; should the Guaranty Trust Company resign as Trustee, the bondholders may designate
another which, however, "must always be a trust company having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, in
the City of New York, N. Y."
The mortgaged property is located in the United
States; the trustee was required to be a New York trust
company; enforcement of the trust security, collection of
bonds and interest, employment of attorneys, institution
of legal proceedings and distribution of assembled assets,
were all responsibilities placed upon the trustee located
in New York, and obviously contemplated that any necessary judicial proceedings would be had in this country
under the governing law of the United States. Both the
mortgage and bonds are domestic obligations, and the
law of this country must determine their interpretation,
their nature, and the obligations enforceable under
them. The Joint Resolution thus must govern if the
'Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 453, 459;
United States v. North Carolina,136 U. S. 211, 222; R. v. International
Trustee, [1937] 2 All E. R. 164; Mount Albert Borough Council v.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

255

Opinion of the Court.

bonds are, within its terms, "obligation[s] . . . payable
in money of the United States."
In their construction of the bonds, petitioners urge
that each of the alternative promises to pay in a foreign currency is a separate and independent "obligation"
to pay. From this, they argue that the only "obligation"
for which enforcement is here sought is one "payable" in
guilders which must be treated as though it were an entirely separate and independent promise of the railroad.
But the railroad undertook only a single obligation to
repay the money it borrowed. Repayment of that money
might be called for in any one, but only one, of
the five different types of money. This, however, did
not divide the railroad's undertaking to repay into five
separate and independent obligations to repay the same
loan. Payment under the contract in any one of the
currencies selected by the bondholder would discharge the
entire single obligation of the debtor. Payment in
guilders, after payment in guilders was elected, would
nonetheless discharge an obligation which prior to such
election and payment was an obligation also payable in
United States dollars. The language of the Joint Resolution was intended to refer to a monetary obligation in
its entirety. That which the Joint Resolution made dischargeable was the debt-the monetary obligation ,to
pay. This debtor's obligation was a monetary obligation.
The foreign currencies promised were not bartered for
as commodities, but their function was that of money to
be paid in countries in which they were legal tender and
upon them interest was to be paid.' Interest is not paid
on commodities but on monetary obligations. And these
Australasian, T. & G. S. Life Assurance Soc., [1938] A. C. 224;
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Sweden, (Jan. 30, 1937), reported in Bulletin de L'Institut Juridique International, April, 1937,
pp. 327, 334.
'Holyoke Power Co. v. Paper Co., 300 U. S. 324, 335-336; Norman v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 294 U. S. 240, 302.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

promises in alternative currencies were not separate and
independent contracts or obligations, but were parts of
one and the same monetary obligation of the debtor.
The point is made, however, that this obligation of the
railroad was never payable in United States money because the option to receive payment in dollars has never
been exercised. Conceding that one meaning of "payable" is "capable of being paid," petitioners nevertheless
urge that the use of this meaning should not be attributed
to Congress, but that instead we must narrow and restrict
"payable" to mean an absolute and unconditional obligation. But the railroad, since the day its bonds were
issued, was under obligation to hold itself prepared to pay
United States money-or any one of the optional currencies. And, on the date the Resolution went into effect,
no election had been made so that the railroad was, at
that time, still under obligation to pay dollars. If prior
to election by the holders the railroad was under no obligation to pay United States money, it was likewise under
no obligation to pay any money, United States or otherwise, although it then had outstanding a $100,000,000.00
mortgage on all of its properties. Neither in logic nor law
can it be said that the railroad's promise, secured by a
$100,000,000.00 mortgage, to pay in any one of five currencies was not an obligation payable in any currency
until express election of payment in a particular currency
was made. Legal rights and obligations came into existence when the contracts for purchase of the bonds were
completed. Since the words "obligation [s] . . . payable
in money of the United States" are clearly broad enough
to require inclusion of these multiple currency obligations,
there is no justification here for restricting the meaning
of these words of the Resolution. Consideration of the
evils aimed at leaves no doubt but that such restriction
would do violence to the intention of the Congress.
The report of the Senate Committee on the Resolution
opens with words revealing its purpose. It is there stated

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.

257

Opinion of the Court.

247

that "Certain questions of interpretation have arisen
with respect to the legislation empowering the President
to prevent the withdrawal and hoarding of gold and the
provision of the Thomas amendment' making all coins
and currencies legal tender for all debts. Additional and
immediate legislation is necessary to remove the disturbing effect of this uncertainty and to insure the success
of the policy by closing possible legal loopholes and re(Italics supplied.) T h e
moving inconsistencies."'
comprehensive language of the Resolution was intendedas by its terms it did-to close "legal loopholes" contributing to "dislocation of the domestic economy which
would be caused by such a disparity of conditions in
which, it is insisted, those debtors under gold clauses
should be required to pay one dollar and sixty-nine cents
in currency while respectively receiving their taxes, rates,
charges and prices on the basis of one dollar of that currency." 8 Here, the admitted purpose of the multiple
currency provision supplementing the gold clause was the
same as that of the gold clause itself, that is, to afford
creditors of United States debtors on domestic money
obligations contractual protection against possible depreciation of United States money. It was a plan, wholly
legal when contrived, specifically designed to require
debtors to pay 1912 gold dollars or fixed amounts in
foreign currencies which were the exact equivalents of
gold dollars in 1912. In purpose, pattern and, as shown
here, in result, the multiple currency provision is identical
with the practice Congress declared to be against public
policy, and it furthers a mischief which the Resolution
was enacted to end.
The mischief Congress intended to end will not end if
the multiple currency provision of these bonds is held to
-48 Stat. 51, § 43.
'Sen. Rep. No. 99, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.
'Norman v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., supra, 315-16.
161299-39-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

be unaffected by the Resolution. Congress sought to outlaw all contractual provisions which require debtors, who
have bound themselves to pay United States dollars, to
pay a greater number of dollars than promised. The
Resolution intended that debtors under obligation to pay
dollars should not have their debts tied to any fixed
value of particular money, but that their entire obligations should be measured by and tied to the actual number of dollars promised, dollar for dollar. A multiple
currency provision was inserted in these bonds in order
to tie this debtor to a fixed value of particular money,
and, relying upon this provision, petitioners demand
more dollars than promised in the bonds. The provision
is thus clearly at cross purposes with the Resolution. By
a simple mathematical calculation translating guilder
value into dollar value, petitioners will, if the Resolution
is not applied to them, enforce the obligations of this
debtor, not dollar for dollar as the Resolution provides,
but more than a dollar and a half for every dollar borrowed, and the purpose of Congress, that no such
premium need be paid, will be completely defeated.
When the Joint Resolution was enacted the railroad
had by its promise assumed obligations to pay its bonds
in dollars; its obligations were therefore "payable in
money of the United States" and so fall squarely within
the letter, as well as the spirit of the Resolution making obligations dischargeable by payment of current
United States legal tender money.
There remains the argument of petitioners that the
Resolution, if construed to forbid enforcement of the
option to demand payment in guilders, nullifies contractual rights in violation of the Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution. But, as has already been pointed out,
the contracts on which the claims for guilders rest are
domestic obligations, controlled by and to be interpreted
under the law of the United States. And contracts be-

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

259

Opinion of the Court.

tween private parties cannot create vested rights which
serve to restrict and limit an exercise of a constitutional
power of Congress.' These bonds and their securing
mortgage were created subject not only to the exercise
by Congress of its constitutional power "to coin money,
regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin," but also
to "the full authority of the Congress in relation to the
currency." The extent of that authority of Congress has
been recently pointed out: "The broad and comprehensive national authority over the subjects of revenue,
finance and currency is derived from the aggregate of the
powers granted to the Congress, embracing the powers
to lay and collect taxes, to borrow money, to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States, to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of
foreign coin, and fix the standards of weights and measures, and the added express power 'to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution' the other enumerated powers." o
Under these powers, Congress was authorized-as it
did in the Resolution-to establish, regulate and control
the national currency and to make that currency legal
tender money for all purposes, including payment of
domestic dollar obligations with options for payment in
foreign currencies. Whether it was "wise and expedient"
to do so was, under the Constitution, a determination
to be made by the Congress.1' The Resolution that
made these creditors' bonds dischargeable in the same
United States legal tender which other creditors in this
country must accept, does not contravene the Fifth
Amendment.
'Norman v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., supra, 306-311; cf., Home
Bldg. & L. Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 435.
"Norman v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., supra, 303.
"'Juilliard v. Greenman (Legal Tender Case), 110 U. S. 421, 448,
450.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
STONE, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

Our conclusion that the Joint Resolution makes petitioners' claims in bankruptcy allowable dollar for dollar
renders consideration of subsidiary questions unnecessary.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

Without considering the question whether the bondholders in these cases have properly exercised their options, I cannot agree that the Joint Resolution of Congress of June 5, 1933, has set at naught the promise of
the bonds to pay guilders to the holders at their election.
In each case the bonds contain alternative and mutually exclusive undertakings. The holder could if he
wished demand payment in United States gold dollars of
a fixed standard or their equivalent in United States currency. The alternative promise is for payment abroad of
specified amounts of any one of several foreign currencies,
without reference to their gold value at the time of payment. Its performance is as independent of gold or gold
value as if it had called for the delivery of a specified
amount of wheat, sugar or coffee, or the performance of
specified services.
Any construction of the gold clause resolution which
would in the circumstances of the present case preclude
payment in foreign money would equally forbid performance of an alternative promise calling for the delivery of a commodity or the rendition of services. Hence
the decisive question is whether the resolution admits
of a construction which would compel one whose contract
stipulates for delivery at his option of a cargo of sugar to
accept instead payment of a specified amount in legal
tender dollars, merely because by the terms of his contract he might have demanded, though he did not, an
equal number of gold dollars.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

STONE,

261

J., dissenting.

When the Joint Resolution was adopted there were
many obligations of American citizens payable abroad
exclusively in foreign currency, and the attendant devaluation of the dollar greatly increased the burden of
performance of such contracts through the necessity of
purchasing with depreciated dollars the foreign exchange
required for their fulfillment. But it must be conceded
that Congress did not undertake to relieve any American citizen of that burden, and it is not contended that
the Joint Resolution provided for the discharge of any
obligations payable in foreign currency, not measured in
gold, except in the case where the promise to pay in foreign money is an alternative for the promise to pay in
dollars. After devaluation of the dollar the burden on
American citizens of meeting obligations abroad by payment in foreign currencies may well have been as great
whether the undertaking was unconditional or to pay
upon a condition which had happened, or whether the
obligation was to pay in a foreign currency or to supply
goods which must be acquired by the expenditure of depreciated dollars.
We can find nothing in the legislative history of the
Joint Resolution or its language to suggest any Congressional policy to relieve from the one form of obligation more than another, or to indicate that the resolution
was aimed at anything other than provisions calling for
payment in gold value or gold dollars or their equivalent,
which Congress explicitly named and described as the evil
to be remedied, both in the Joint Resolution itself and
in the committee reports attending its adoption. See
Sen. Rep. No. 99, 73d Cong., 1st Seas.; H. R. Rep. No.
169, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.
The Joint Resolution of Congress and the committee
reports make no mention of obligations dischargeable in
foreign currencies or by delivery of commodities or performance of services. If it was the purpose of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
STONE, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

to control such obligations through the exercise of its
power to regulate the value of money, that fact must be
discoverable from the language of the resolution or from
some underlying public policy, to which its words and
the records of Congress give no clue. Shortly before the
adoption of the resolution, Congress had authorized the

President to devalue the dollar. By appropriate legislation and executive action, gold payments by the Treasury
had been suspended, the hoarding of gold and its exportation had been prohibited, and all persons had been required to deliver gold owned by them to the Treasury.
See Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 294 U. S. 240,
295 et seq. It was obvious that these measures, aimed at
the suppression of the use of gold as a standard of currency value, would fail of their purpose unless all payments in gold of the established standard or its equivalent were outlawed. The reports of the Congressional
committees recommending the adoption of the resolution
indicate clearly enough that such was its purpose. They
give no hint that more was intended. See Sen. Rep. No.
99, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.; H. R. Rep. No. 169, 73d Cong.,
1st Sess.
The recitals of the Joint Resolution declare that it is
aimed at "the holding of or dealing in gold" and the
"provisions of obligations which purport to give the
obligee a right to require payment in gold or a particular
kind of coin or currency of the United States, or in an
amount in money of the United States measured
thereby." No other purpose is suggested. The enacting
part of the resolution proscribes "every provision . ..

which purports to give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a particular kind of coin or currency, or
in an amount in money of the United States measured
thereby," and declares "Every obligation, heretofore or
hereafter incurred, whether or not any such provision is
contained therein or made with respect thereto, shall be

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. HENWOOD.
247

STONE,

263

J., dissenting.

discharged upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin
or currency which at the time of payment is legal tender . . ." "Obligation," it states,. "means an obligation . . . payable in money of the United States." Thus
the resolution proclaims that it is aimed at gold clauses
and declares, if language is to be taken in its plain and
most obvious sense, that provisions requiring payment in
gold dollars or measured by gold are illegal and that every
promise or obligation "payable in money of the United
States" (not in guilders) shall be discharged "dollar for
dollar" in legal tender currency.
To arrive at the conclusion that the resolution compels the present bondholders to accept dollars instead of
the guilders for which they have contracted, it is necessary to say that "obligation," which the Joint Resolution defines as obligation "payable in money of the United
States" and requires to be discharged "dollar for dollar"
in legal tender, includes the obligation payable in guilders.
This difficulty is bridged by recourse to a major operation
of statutory reconstruction. It is said that "obligation"
means, not the obligation or promise which is defined by
the resolution as that "payable in money of the United
States" and in which the gold clause provision is "contained" and "with respect" to which the provision is
"made," but includes all obligations, although not dischargeable in money of the United States or in gold,
which may be written into the instrument or document
containing alternative promises, one of which is to pay in
dollars. The "obligation" of the resolution "with respect"
to which the gold clause is "made" is thus treated as
synonymous with the instrument containing the multiple
obligations, and all the provisions in it (not alone the
promise to pay dollars) are now held to be dischargeable
in dollars merely because one of the alternative promises
"contained" a provision payable in "money of the United
States," although the bondholder is entitled by his contract to demand performance of a promise to pay guild-

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

ers not measured by gold. Thus, starting with a resolution avowedly directed at gold clauses, we are brought
to the extraordinary conclusion that a promise to pay foreign currency is void if expressed in an instrument containing an alternative promise to pay in money of the
United States whether of gold standard or not.
The argument is not persuasive, because it rests both
upon a strained and unnatural construction of the resolution and upon an assumption that there was a Congressional policy to strike down provisions for the alternative
discharge of dollar obligations by payment in foreign
currency not tied to gold, which finds no support in the
language of the Joint Resolution or its legislative history.
It seems fair to suppose that if Congress proposed to end
all possibility of creating an international market for
bonds payable in dollars or alternatively abroad in foreign currencies, both without gold value, it would have
given some more explicit indication of that purpose than
is exhibited by the Joint Resolution. Even if we assume
that Congress would have struck down such alternative
currency clauses had it considered the matter, we are not
free to do what Congress might have done but did not, or
vhat we may think it ought to have done to lessen the
rigors of our own currency devaluation for those who had
made contracts for payment abroad in foreign currency
without gold value.
In any case it seems plain that if Congress had made
the attempt it would not have chosen to do so in terms
which, if the Court's construction of the Joint Resolution
be accepted, are broad enough to strike down every conceivable provision for payment in foreign currency, delivery of commodities, or performance of services as an
alternative for a promise to pay dollars, whether of gold
standard or not.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur in this opinion.

and

