COLEMAN v. MILLER.

433

Syllabus.

COLEMAN

ET AL.

v. MILLER, SECRETARY OF THE

SENATE OF THE STATE OF KANSAS,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 7. Argued October 10, 1938.

Reargued April 17, 18, 1939.-

Decided June 5, 1939.
1. Upon submission of a resolution for ratification of a proposed
amendment to the Federal Constitution, known as the Child Labor
Amendment, twenty of the forty senators of the State of Kansas
voted in favor of its adoption and twenty voted against it. The
Lieutenant Governor, the presiding officer of the Senate, then cast
his vote in favor of the resolution, and later it was adopted by
the other house of the legislature on a vote of a majority of its
members. The twenty senators who had voted against ratification,
challenging the right of -he Lieutenant Governor to cast the deciding vote in the Senate, and alleging that the proposed amendment
had lost its vitality because of previous rejection by Kansas and
other States and failure of ratification within a reasonable time,
sought a writ of mandamus to compel the Secretary of the Senate
to erase an endorsement on the resolution, to the effect that it
had been adopted by the Senate, and to endorse thereon the words
"was not passed," and to restrain the officers of the Senate and
House of Representatives from signing the resolution and the Secretary of State of Kansas from authenticating it and delivering
it to the Governor. The State entered its appearance and the
State Supreme Court entertained the action, sustained the right
of the plaintiffs to maintain it, but overruled their contentions,
uphteld the ratification, and denied the writ. Held:
(1) The questions decided were federal questions, arising under
Article V of the Constitution. P. 437.
(2) The complaining senators, whose votes against ratification
have been overridden and virtually held for naught, although if
they are right in their contentions their votes would have been
sufficient to defeat ratification, have a plain, direct and adequate
interest in maintaining the effectiveness of their votes. They have
set up and claimed a right and privilege under the Constitution
of the United States to have their votes given effect and the state
court has denied that right and privilege. P. 438.
(3) This Court has jurisdiction to review the decision of the
state court by certiorari, under Jud. Code § 237 (b). P. 438.
161299-39-

28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

307 U. S.

2. The Court being equally divided in opinion as to whether the
question presents a justiciable controversy, or is a political question, expresses no opinion upon a contention that the Lieutenant
Governor of Kansas was not a part of the "legislature," and under
Article V of the Federal Constitution could not be permitted a
deciding vote on the ratification of the proposed amendment.
P. 446.
3. In accordance with the precedent of the Fourteenth Amendment,
the efficacy of ratification of a proposed amendment to the
Federal Constitution by a state legislature which had previously
rejected the proposal, is held a question for the political departments, with the ultimate authority in the Congress in the exercise' of its control over the promulgation of the adoption of the
amendment. P. 447.
4. The legislature of Kansas having actually ratified the proposed
Child Labor Amendment, this Court should not restrain the state
officers from certifying the ratification to the Secretary of State,
because of an earlier rejection, and thus prevent the question from
coming before the political departments. There is found no basis
in either Constitution or statute for such judicial action. P. 450.
5. R. S. § 205; 5 U. S. C. 160, presupposes official notice to the Secretary of State when'a state legislature has adopted a resolution
of ratification. No warrant is seen for judicial interference with
the performance of that duty. P. 450.
6. The Congress in controlling the promulgation of the adoption of
a constitutional amendment has the final determination of the
question whether by lapse of time its proposal of the amendment
had lost its vitality before being adopted by the requisite number
of legislatures. P. 451.
7. In determining whether a question falls within the category of
political, non-justiciable questions, the appropriateness under our
system of government of attributing finality to the action of the
political departments, and also the lack of satisfactory criteria
for a judicial determination, are dominant considerations. P. 454.
146 Kan. 390; 71 P. 2d 518, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 632, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Kansas denying a writ of mandamus,
applied for in that court by senators of the State and
members of its House of Representatives for the purpose
of compelling the Secretary of the Senate to erase an endorsement purporting to show that a resolution for the

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

ratification of a proposal to amend the Federal Constitution had passed the Senate, and to restrain the officers of
the Senate and the other house of the legislature from
signing the resolution and the Secretary of State of Kansas from authenticating it and delivering it to the
Governor.
Messrs. Robert Stone and Rolla W. Coleman, on the
reargument and on the original argument, for petitioners.
Mr. Clarence V. Beck on the reargument, and with Mr.
E. R. Sloan on the original argument, for respondents.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson,
with whom Mr. Paul A. Freund was on the brief, argued
the case on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging affirmance.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Orland S. Loomis, Attorney
General of Wisconsin, Mortimer Levitan and Newell S.
Boardman, Assistant Attorneys General, filed a brief on
behalf of that State, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

announced by MR. JUSTICE

HUGHES,

STONE.

In June, 1924, the Congress proposed an amendment
to ,the Constitution, known as the Child Labor Amendment.1 In January, 1925, the Legislature of Kansas
adopted a resolution rejecting the proposed amendment
and a certified copy of the resolution was sent to the
Secretary of State of the United States. In January,
1937, a resolution known as "Senate Concurrent Resolu1 The

text of the proposed amendment is as follows (43 Stat. 670):

"Section 1. The Congress shall have power to limit, regulate, and
prohibit the labor of persons under eighteen years of age.
"Sec. 2. The power of the several States is unimpaired by this
article except that the operation of State laws shall be suspended to
the extent necessary to give effect to legislation enacted by the
Congress."

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

tion No. 3" was introduced in the Senate of Kansas
ratifying the proposed amendment. There were forty
senators. When the resolution came up for consideration, twenty senators voted in favor of its adoption and
twenty voted against it. The Lieutenant Governor, the
presiding officer of the Senate, then cast his vote in
favor of the resolution. The resolution was later adopted
by the House of Representatives on the vote of a
majority of its members.
This original proceeding in mandamus was then
brought in the Supreme Court of Kansas by twenty-one
members of the Senate, including the twenty senators
who had voted against the resolution, and three members of the House of Representatives, to compel the Secretary of the Senate to erase an endorsement on the
resolution to the effect that it had been adopted by
the Senate and to endorse thereon the words "was not
passed," and to restrain the officers of the Senate and
House of Representatives from signing the resolution
and the Secretary of State of Kansas from authenticating it and delivering it to the Governor. The petition
challenged the right of the Lieutenant Governor to cast
the deciding vote in the Senate. The petition also set
forth the prior rejection of the proposed amendment and
alleged that in the period from June, 1924, to March,
1927, the amendment had been rejected by both houses
of the legislatures of twenty-six States, and had been
ratified in only five States, and that by reason of that
rejection and the failure of ratification within a
reasonable time the proposed amendment had lost its
vitality.
An alternative writ was issued. Later the Senate
passed a resolution directing the Attorney General to
enter the appearance of the State and to represent the
State as its interests might appear. Answers were filed

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

on behalf of the defendants other than the State and
plaintiffs made their reply.
The Supreme Court found no dispute as to the facts.
The court entertained the action and held that the Lieutenant Governor was authorized to cast the deciding
vote, that the proposed amendment retained its original
vitality, and that the resolution "having duly passed
the house of representatives and the senate, the act of
ratification of the proposed amendment by the legislature
of Kansas was final and complete." The writ of mandamus was accordingly denied. 146 Kan. 390; 71 P. 2d
518. This Court granted certiorari. 303 U. S. 632.
First. The jurisdiction of this Court.-Our authority to
issue the writ of certiorari is challenged upon the ground
that petitioners have no standing to seek to have the
judgment of the state court reviewed, and hence it is
urged that the writ of certiorari should be dismissed. We
are unable to accept that view.
The state court held that it had jurisdiction; that "the
right of the parties to maintain the action is beyond question." 2 The state court thus determined in substance
that members of the legislature had standing to seek,
and the court had jurisdiction to grant, mandamus to
compel a proper record of legislative action. Had the
questions been solely state questions, the matter would
' The state court said on this point:
"At the threshold we are confronted with the question raised by
the defendants as to the right of the plaintiffs to maintain this
action. It appears that on March 30, 1937, the state senate adopted a
resolution directing the attorney general to appear for the state of
Kansas in this action. It further appears that on April 3, 1937, on
application of the attorney general, an order was entered making
the state of Kansas a party defendant. The state being a party
to the proceedings, we think the right of the parties to maintain
the action is beyond question. (G. S. 1935, 75-702; State, ex rel. v.
Public Service Comn., 135 Kan. 491, 11 P. 2d 999.)"

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

have ended there. But the questions raised in the instant case arose under the Federal Constitution and
these questions were entertained and decided by the
state court. They arose under Article V of the Constitution which alone conferred the power to amend and
determined the manner in which that power could be
exercised. Hawke v. Smith (No. 1), 253 U. S. 221, 227;
Leser v. Garnett, 258 U. S. 130, 137. Whether any or
all of the questions thus raised and decided are deemed to
be justiciable or political, they are exclusively federal
questions and not state questions.
We find the cases cited in support of the contention,
that petitioners lack an adequate interest to invoke our
jurisdiction to review, to be inapplicable.3 Here, the
plaintiffs include twenty senators, whose votes against
ratification have been overridden and virtually held for
naught although if they are right in their contentions
their votes would have been sufficient to defeat ratification. We think that these senators have a plain, direct
and adequate interest in maintaining the effectiveness of
their votes. Petitioners come directly within the provisions of the statute governing our appellate jurisdiction.
They have set up and claimed a right and privilege under
the Constitution of the United States to have their votes
given effect and the state court has denied that right
and privilege. As the validity of a state statute was not
assailed, the remedy by appeal was not available (Jud.
Code, § 237 (a); 28 U. S. C. 344 (a)) and the appropriate
remedy was by writ of certiorari which we granted. Jud.
Code, § 237 (b); 28 U. S. C. 344 (b).
The contention to the contrary is answered by our
decisions in Hawke v. Smith, supra, and Leser v. Garnett,
'See

Caffrey v. Oklahoma Territory, 177 U. S. 346; Smith v.

Indiana, 191 U. S. 138; Braxton County Court v. West Virginia, 208
U. S. 192; Marshall v. Dye, 231 U. S.250; Stewart v. Kansas City,

239 U. S. 14; Columbus & Greenville Ry. Co. v. Miller, 283 U. S. 96.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

supra. In Hawke v. Smith, the plaintiff in error, suing
as a "citizen and elector of the State of Ohio, and as a
taxpayer and elector of the County of Hamilton," on
behalf of himself and others similarly situated, filed a
petition for an injunction in the state court to restrain
the Secretary of State from spending the public money in
preparing and printing ballots for submission of a referendum to the electors on the question of the ratification of
the Eighteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
A demurrer to the petition was sustained in the lower court
and its judgment was affirmed by the intermediate appellate court and the Supreme Court of the State. This
Court entertained jurisdiction and, holding that the state
court had erred in deciding that the State had authority
to require the submission of the ratification to a referendum, reversed the judgment.
In Leser v. Garnett, qualified voters in the State of
Maryland brought suit in the state court to have the
names of certain women stricken from the list of qualified
voters on the ground that the constitution of Maryland
limited suffrage to men and that the Nineteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution has not been validly
ratified. The state court took jurisdiction and the Court
of Appeals of the State affirmed the judgment dismissing
the petition. We granted certiorari. On the question
of our jurisdiction we said:
"The petitioners contended, on several grounds, that
the Amendment had not become part of the Federal
Constitution. The trial court overruled the contentions
and dismissed the petition. Its judgment was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals of the State, 139 Md. 46; and the
case comes here on writ of error. That writ must be dismissed; but the petition for a writ of certiorari, also
duly filed, is granted. The laws of Maryland authorized
such a suit by a qualified voter against the Board of
Registry. Whether the Nineteenth Amendment has be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

come part of the Federal Constitution is the question
presented for decision."
And holding that the official notice to the Secretary of
State, duly authenticated, of the action of the legislatures
of the States, whose alleged ratifications were assailed, was
conclusive upon the Secretary of State and that his
proclamation accordingly of ratification was conclusive
upon the courts, we affirmed the judgment of the state
court.
That the question of our jurisdiction in Leser v. Garnett was decided upon deliberate consideration is sufficiently shown by the fact that there was a motion to
dismiss the writ of error for the want of jurisdiction and
opposition to the grant of certiorari. The decision is
the more striking because on the same day, in an opinion
immediately preceding which was prepared for the Court
by the same Justice,4 jurisdiction had been denied to a
federal court (the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia) of a suit by citizens of the United States,
taxpayers and members of a voluntary association organized to support the Constitution, in which it was
sought to have the Nineteenth Amendment declared unconstitutional and to enjoin the Secretary of State from
proclaiming its ratification and the Attorney General
from taking steps to enforce it. Fairchildv. Hughes, 258
U. S. 126. The Court held that the plaintiffs' alleged
interest in the question submitted was not such as to
afford a basis for the proceeding; that the plaintiffs had
only the right possessed by every citizen "to require that
the Government be administered according to law and
that the public moneys be not wasted" and that this general right did not entitle a private citizen to bring such
a suit as the one in question in the federal courts.5 It
'Mr. Justice Brandeis.
Id., pp. 129, 130. See, also, Frothingham v. Mellon, 262 U. S.
447, 480, 486, 487.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

would be difficult to imagine a situation in which the
adequacy of the petitioners' interest to invoke our appellate jurisdiction in Leser v. Garnett could have been more
sharply presented.
The effort to distinguish that case on the ground that
the plaintiffs were qualified voters in Maryland, and hence
could complain of the admission to the registry of those
alleged not to be qualified, is futile. The interest of the
plaintiffs in Leser v. Garnett as merely qualified voters
at general elections is certainly much less impressive than
the interest of the twenty senators in the instant case.
This is not a mere intra-parliamentary controversy but
the question relates to legislative action deriving its force
solely from the provisions of the Federal Constitution,
and the twenty senators were not only qualified to vote
on the question of ratification but their votes, if the
Lieutenant Governor were excluded as not being a part
of the legislature for that purpose, would have been decisive in defeating the ratifying resolution.
We are of the opinion that Hawke v. Smith and Leser
v. Garnett are controlling authorities, but in view of the
wide range the discussion has taken we may refer to some
other instances in which the question of what constitutes
a sufficient interest to enable one to invoke our appellate
jurisdiction has been involved. The principle that the
applicant must show a legal interest in the controversy
has been maintained. It has been applied repeatedly in
cases where municipal corporations have challenged state
legislation affecting their alleged rights and obligations.
Being but creatures of the State, municipal corporations
have no standing to invoke the contract clause or the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution in opposition to the will of their creator.' But there
6Pawhwka v. Pawhuska Oil Co., 250 U. S. 394; Trenton v. New
Jersey, 262 U. S. 182; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270
U. S. 378; Williams v. Mayor, 289 U. S. 36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

has been recognition of the legitimate interest of public
officials and administrative commissions, federal and
state, to resist the endeavor to prevent the enforcement
of statutes in relation to which they have official duties.
Under the Urgent Deficiencies Act,' the Interstate Commerce Commission, and commissions representing interested States which have intervened, are entitled as "aggrieved parties" to an appeal to this Court from a decree
setting aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, though the United States refuses to join in the
appeal. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Oregon-Washington R. & N. Co., 288 U. S. 14. So, this Court may
grant certiorari, on the application of the Federal Trade
Commission, to review decisions setting aside its orders.8
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Curtis Publishing Co., 260 U. S.
568. Analogous provisions authorize certiorari to review
decisions against the National Labor Relations Board.9
National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin
Corp., 301 U. S. 1. Under § 266 of the Judicial Code
(28 U. S. C. 380), where an injunction is sought to restrain the enforcement of a statute of a State or an order
of its administrative board or commission, upon the
ground of invalidity under the Federal Constitution, the
right of direct appeal to this Court from the decree of
the required three judges is accorded whether the injunction be granted or denied. Hence, in case the injunction
is granted, the state board is entitled to appeal. See, for
example, South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell
Brothers, 303 U. S. 177.
The question of our authority to grant certiorari, on
the application of state officers, to review decisions of
state courts declaring state statutes, which these officers
'Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 219; 28 U. S. C. 47, 47a, 345.
8 15 U. S. C. 45; 28 U. S. C. 348.

' 29 U. S. C. 160 (e). See, also, as to orders of Federal Communications Commission, 47 U. S. C. 402 (e).

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

seek to enforce, to be repugnant to the Federal Constitution, has been carefully considered and our jurisdiction
in that class of cases has been sustained. The original
Judiciary Act of 1789 provided in § 25 10 for the review
by this Court of a judgment of a state court "where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties or laws
of the United States, and the decision is in favour of
such their validity"; that is, where the claim of federal
right had been denied. By the Act of December 23,
1914,11 it was provided that this Court may review on
certiorari decisions of state courts sustaining a federal
right. The present statute governing our jurisdiction on
certiorari contains the corresponding provision that this
Court may exercise that jurisdiction "as well where the
federal claim is sustained as where it is denied." Jud.
Code, § 237 (b); 28 U. S. C. 344 (b). The plain purpose
was to provide an opportunity, deemed to be important
and appropriate, for the review of the decisions of state
courts on constitutional questions however the state court
might decide them. Accordingly where the claim of a
complainant that a state officer be restrained from enforcing a state statute because of constitutional invalidity
is sustained by the state court, the statute enables the
state officer to seek a reversal by this Court of that
decision.
In Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, 7, the Court
granted certiorari on the application of the State Tax
Commissioner of Connecticut who sought review of the
decision of the Supreme Court of Errors of the State
so far as it denied the right created by its statute to tax
the transfer of certain securities, which had been placed
for safekeeping in New York, on the ground that they
1 1 Stat. 73, 85, 86.
' 38 Stat. 790; see, also, Act of September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

were not within the taxing jurisdiction of Connecticut.
Entertaining jurisdiction, this Court reversed the judgment in that respect. Id., p. 18.
The question received most careful consideration in
the case of Boynton v. Hutchinson Gas Co., 291 U. S. 656,
where the Supreme Court of Kansas had held a state
statute to be repugnant to the Federal Constitution, and
the Attorney General of the State applied for certiorari.
His application was opposed upon the ground that he
had merely an official interest in the controversy and the
decisions were invoked upon which the Government relies in challenging our jurisdiction in the instant case.'"
Because of its importance, and contrary to our usual practice, the Court directed oral argument on the question
whether certiorari should be granted, and after that argument, upon mature deliberation, granted the writ. The
writ was subsequently dismissed but only because of a
failure of the record to show service of summons and
severance upon the appellees in the state court who were
not parties to the proceedings here. 292 U. S. 601. This
decision with respect to the scope of our jurisdiction has
been followed in later cases. In Morehead v. New York
ex rel. Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587, we granted certiorari on
an application by the warden of a city prison to review
the decision of the Court of Appeals of the State on
habeas corpus, ruling that the minimum wage law of the
State violated the Federal Constitution. This 'Court decided the case on the merits. In Kelly v. Washington
ex rel. Foss Co., 302 U. S. 1, we granted certiorari, on the
application of the state authorities charged with the enforcement of the state law relating to the inspection and
regulation of vessels, to review the decision of the state
court holding the statute invalid in its application to
navigable waters. We concluded that the state act had
a permissible field of operation and the decision of the
12See

cases cited in Note 3.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

state court in holding the statute completely unenforceable in deference to federal law was reversed.
This class of cases in which we have exercised our ap-.
pellate jurisdiction on the application of state officers
may be said to recognize that they have an adequate interest in the controversy by reason of their duty to enforce
the state statutes the validity of which has been drawn
in question. In none of these cases could it be said that
the state officers invoking our jurisdiction were sustaining
any "private damage."
While one who asserts the mere right of a citizen and
taxpayer of the United States to complain of the alleged
invalid outlay of public moneys has no standing to invoke the jurisdiction of the federal courts (Frothingham
v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 480, 486, 487), the Court has
sustained the more immediate and substantial right of
a resident taxpayer to invoke the interposition of a court
of equity to enjoin an illegal use of moneys by a municipal corporation. Crampton v. Zabriskie, 101 U. S. 601,
609; Frothinghamv. Mellon, supra. In Heim v. McCall,
239 U. S. 175, we took jurisdiction on a writ of error sued
out by a property owner and taxpayer, who had been
given standing in the state court, for the purpose of reviewing its decision sustaining the validity under the Federal Constitution, of a state statute as applied to contracts
for the construction of public works in the City of New
York, the enforcement of which was alleged to involve
irreparable loss to the city and hence to be inimical to the
interests of the taxpayer.
In Smiley v. Holm, 285 U. S. 355, we granted certiorari
on the application of one who was an "elector," as well
as a "citizen" and "taxpayer," and who assailed under
the Federal Constitution a state statute establishing congressional districts. Passing upon the merits we held that
the function of a state legislature in prescribing the time,
place and manner of holding elections for representatives

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

in Congress under Article I, § 4, was a law-making
function in which the veto power of the state governor
participates, if under the state constitution the governor
has that power in the course of the making of state laws,
and accordingly reversed the judgment of the state court.
We took jurisdiction on certiorari in a similar case from
New York where the petitioners were "citizens and voters
of the State" who had sought a mandamus to compel
the Secretary of State of New York to certify that representatives in Congress were to be elected in the congressional districts as defined by a concurrent resolution
of the Senate and Assembly of the legislature. There
the state court, construing the provision of the Federal
Constitution as contemplating the exercise of the lawmaking power, had sustained the defense that the concurrent resolution was ineffective as it had not been submitted to the Governor for approval, and refused the writ
of mandamus. We affirmed the judgment. Koenig v.
Flynn, 285 U. S. 375.
In the light of this course of decisions, we find no
departure from principle in recognizing in the instant
case that at least the twenty senators whose votes, if
their contention were sustained, would have been sufficient to defeat the resolution ratifying the proposed constitutional amendment, have an interest in the controversy which, treated by the state court as a basis for entertaining and deciding the federal questions, is sufficient to
give the Court jurisdiction to review that decision.
Second. The participation of the Lieutenant Governor.-Petitioners contend that, in the light of the powers
and duties of the Lieutenant Governor and his relation
to. the Senate under the state constitution, as construed
by the supreme court of the state, the Lieutenant Governor was not a part of the "legislature" so that under
Article V of the Federal Constitution, he could be permitted to have a deciding vote on the ratification of the

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

proposed amendment, when the senate was equally
divided.
Whether this contention presents a justiciable controversy, or a question which is political in its nature and
hence not justiciable, is a question upon which the Court
is equally divided and therefore the Court expresses no
opinion upon that point.
Third. The effect of the previous rejection of the'
amendment and of the lapse of time since its submission.
1. The state court adopted the view expressed by textwriters that a state legislature which has rejected an
amendment proposed by the Congress may later ratify.1"
The argument in support of that view is that Article V
says nothing of rejection but speaks only of ratification
and provides that a proposed amendment shall be valid
as part of the Constitution when ratified by three-fourths
of the States; that the power to ratify is thus conferred
upon the State by the Constitution and, as a ratifying
power, persists despite a previous rejection. The opposing view proceeds on an assumption that if ratification
by "Conventions" were prescribed by the Congress, a
convention could not reject and, having adjourned sine
die, be reassembled and ratify. It is also premised, in
accordance with views expressed by text-writers, 4 that
ratification if once given cannot afterwards be rescinded
and the amendment rejected, and it is urged that the same
effect in the exhaustion of the State's power to act should
be ascribed to rejection; that a State can act "but once,
either by convention or through its legislature."
"Jameson on Constitutional Conventions, §§ 576-581; Willoughby
on the Constitution, § 329a.
14 Jameson, op. cit., §§ 582-584; Willoughby, op. cit., § 329a; Ames,
"Proposed Amendments to the Constitution," House Doc. No. 353,
Pt. 2, 54th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 299, 300.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Historic instances are cited. In 1865, the Thirteenth
Amendment was rejected by the legislature of New Jersey
which subsequently ratified it, but the question did not
become important as ratification by the requisite number of States had already been proclaimed."5 The question did arise in connection with the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The legislatures of Georgia,
North Carolina and South Carolina had rejected the
amendment in November and December, 1866.1' New
governments were erected in those States (and in others)
under the direction of Congress." The new legislatures
ratified the amendment, that of North Carolina on July 4,
1868, that of South Carolina on July 9, 1868, and that of
Georgia on July 21, 1868."8 Ohio and New Jersey first
ratified and then passed resolutions withdrawing their
consent."
As there were then thirty-seven States,
twenty-eight were needed to constitute the requisite
three-fourths. On July 9, 1868, the Congress adopted a
resolution requesting the Secretary of State to communicate "a list of the States of the Union whose legislatures
have ratified the fourteenth article of amendment," "
and in Secretary Seward's report attention was called to
the action of Ohio and New Jersey." On July 20th Secretary Seward issued a proclamation reciting the ratification by twenty-eight States, including North Carolina,
South Carolina, Ohio and New Jersey, and stating that
it appeared that Ohio and New Jersey had since passed
resolutions withdrawing their consent and that "it is
" 13 Stat. 774, 775; Jameson, op. cit., § 576; Ames, op. cit., p. 300.
" 15 Stat. 710.
1'Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat., p. 428. See White v. Hart, 13
Wall. 646, 652.
"15 Stat. 710.
"15 Stat. 707.
20 Cong. Globe, 40th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 3857.
Cong. Globe, 40th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 4070.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

433

deemed a matter of doubt and uncertainty whether such
resolutions are not irregular, invalid and therefore ineffectual." The Secretary certified that if the ratifying
resolutions of Ohio and New Jersey were still in full force
and effect, notwithstanding the attempted withdrawal,
the amendment had become a part of the Constitution. "
On the following day the Congress adopted a concurrent
resolution which, reciting that three-fourths of the States
having ratified (the list including North Carolina, South
Carolina, Ohio and New Jersey)," declared the Fourteenth Amendment to be a part of the Constitution and
that it should be duly promulgated as such by the Secretary of State. Accordingly, Secretary Seward, on July
28th, issued his proclamation embracing the States
mentioned in the congressional resolution and adding.
Georgia. 4
Thus the political departments of the Government
dealt with the effect both of previous rejection and of
attempted withdrawal and determined that both were
ineffectual in the presence of an actual ratification."
While there were special circumstances, because of the
action of the Congress in relation to the governments of
the rejecting States (North Carolina, South Carolina and
Georgia), these circumstances were not recited in proclaiming ratification and the previous action taken in
these States was set forth in the proclamation as actual
previous rejections by the respective legislatures. This
",15 Stat. 706, 707.
2115 Stat. 709, 710.
4 15 Stat. 710, 711; Ames, op. cit., App. No. 1140, p. 377.
2 The legislature of New York which had ratified the Fifteenth
Amendment in 1869 attempted, in January, 1870, to withdraw its
ratification, and while this fact was stated in the proclamation by
Secretary Fish of the ratification of the amendment, and New York
was not needed to make up the required three-fourths, that State

was included in the list of ratifying States. 16 Stat. 1131; Ames,
op. cit., App. No. 1284, p. 388.
1612990-39-

29

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

decision by the political departments of the Government
as to the validity of the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment has been accepted.
We think that in accordance with this historic precedent the question of the efficacy of ratifications by state
legislatures, in the light of previous rejection or attempted withdrawal, should be regarded as a political
question pertaining to the political departments, with
the ultimate authority in the Congress in the exercise of
its control over the promulgation of the adoption of the
amendment.
The precise question as now raised is whether, when
the legislature of the State, as we have found, has actually ratified the proposed amendment, the Court should
restrain the state officers from certifying the ratification
to the Secretary of State, because of an earlier rejection,
and thus prevent the question from coming before the
political departments. We find no basis in either Constitution or statute for such judicial action. Article V,
speaking solely of ratification, contains no provision as
to rejection. 6 Nor has the Congress enacted a statute
relating to rejections. The statutory provision with
respect to constitutional amendments is as follows:
"Whenever official notice is received at the Department
of State that any amendment proposed to the Constitution of the United States has been adopted, according to
the provisions of the Constitution, the Secretary of State
shall forthwith cause the amendment to be published,
with his certificate, specifying the States by which the
same may have been adopted, and that the same has
become valid, to all intents and purposes, as a part of
the Constitution of the United States." 27
Compare Article VII.
' 5 U. S. C. 160. From Act of April 20, 1818, § 2; 3 Stat. 439;

R. S. § 205.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

The statute presupposes official notice to the Secretary
of State when a state legislature has adopted a resolution
of ratification. We see no warrant for judicial interference with the performance of that duty. See Leser v.
Garnett, supra, p. 137.
2. The more serious question is whether the proposal
by the Congress of the amendment had lost its vitality
through lapse of time and hence it could not be ratified
by the Kansas legislature in 1937. The argument of
petitioners stresses the fact that nearly thirteen years
elapsed between the proposal in 1924 and the ratification
in question. It is said that when the amendment was
proposed there was a definitely adverse popular sentiment and that at the end of 1925 there had been rejection by both houses of the legislatures of sixteen States
and ratification by only four States, and that it was not
until about 1933 that an aggressive campaign was started
in favor of the amendment. In reply, it is urged that
Congress did not fix a limit of time for ratification and
that an unreasonably long time had not elapsed since
the submission; that tlie conditions which gave rise to
the amendment had not been eliminated; that the prevalence of child labor, the diversity of state laws and the
disparity in their administration, with the resulting competitive inequalities, continued to exist. Reference is
also made to the fact that a number of the States have
treated the amendment as still pending and that in the
proceedings of the national government there have been
indications of the same view.28 It is said that there were
fourteen ratifications in 1933, four in 1935, one in 1936,
and three in 1937.
'Sen. Rep. 726, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.; Sen. Rep. 788, 75th Cong.,
1st Sess.: Letter of the President on January 8, 1937, to the Governors of nineteen non-ratifying States whose legislatures were to
meet in that year, urging them to press for ratification. New York
Times, January 9, 1937, p. 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

We have held that the Congress in proposing an
amendment may fix a reasonable time for ratification.
Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U. S. 368. There we sustained the
action of the Congress in providing in the proposed
Eighteenth Amendment that it should be inoperative
unless ratified within seven years.2 9 No limitation of
time for ratification is provided in the instant case either
in the proposed amendment or in the resolution of submission. But petitioners contend that, in the absence of
a limitation by the Congress, the Court can and should
decide what is a reasonable period within which ratification may be had. We are unable to agree with that
contention.
It is true that in Dillon v. Gloss the Court said that
nothing was found in Article V which suggested that an
amendment once proposed was to be open to ratification
for all time, or that ratification in some States might be
separated from that in others by many years and yet be
effective; that there was a strong suggestion to the contrary in that proposal and ratification were b t- @ucceeding
steps in a single endeavor; that as amendments were
deemed to be prompted by necessity, they should be aoiisidered and disposed of presently; and that there is a
fair implication that ratification must be sufficiently contemporaneous in the required number of States to reflect
the will of the people in all sections at relatively the same
period; and hence that ratification must be within some
reasonable time after the proposal. These considerations
were cogent reasons for the decision in Dillon v. Gloss
that the Congress had the power to fix a reasonable time
for ratification. But it does not follow that, whenever
Congress has not exercised that power, the Court should
take upon itself the responsibility of deciding what con2940

Stat. 1050. A similar provision was inserted in the Twenty-

first Amendment.

United States v. Chambers, 291 U. S. 217, 222.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

stitutes a reasonable time and determine accordingly the
validity of ratifications. That question was not involved
in Dillon v. Gloss and, in accordance with familiar principle, what was there said must be read in the light of the
point decided.
Where are to be found the criteria for such a judicial
determination? None are to be found in Constitution
or statute. In their endeavor to answer this question
petitioners' counsel have suggested that at least two years
should be allowed; that six years would not seem to be
unreasonably long; that seven years had been used by
the Congress as a reasonable period; that one year, six
months and thirteen days was the average time used in
passing upon amendments which have been ratified since
the first ten amendments; that three years, six months
and twenty-five days has been the longest time used in
ratifying. To this list of variables, counsel add that "the
nature and extent of publicity and the activity of the
public and of the legislatures of the several States in relation to any particular proposal should be taken into
consideration." That statement is pertinent, but there
are additional matters to be examined and weighed.
When a proposed amendment springs from a conception
of economic needs, it would be necessary, in determining
whether a reasonable time had elapsed since its submission, to consider the economic conditions prevailing in
the country, whether these had so far changed since the
submission as to make the proposal no longer responsive
to the conception which inspired it or whether conditions
were such as to intensify the feeling of need and the appropriateness of the proposed remedial action. In short,
the question of a reasonable time in many cases would
involve, as in this case it does involve, an appraisal of a
great variety of relevant conditions, political, social and
economic, which can hardly be said to be within the appropriate range of evidence receivable in a court of justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

and as to which it would be an extravagant extension
of judicial authority to assert judicial notice as the basis
of deciding a controversy with respect to the validity of an
amendment actually ratified. On the other hand, these
conditions are appropriate for the consideration of the
political departments of the Government. The questions
they involve are essentially political and not justiciable.
They can be decided by the Congress with the full knowledge and appreciation ascribed to the national legislature
of the political, social and economic conditions which have
prevailed during the period since the submission of the
amendment.
Our decision that the Congress has the power under
Article V to fix a reasonaBle limit of time for ratification
in proposing an amendment proceeds upon the assumption that the question, what is a reasonable time, lies
within the congressional province. If it be deemed that
such a question is an open one when the limit has not
been fixed in advance, we think that it should also be
regarded as an open one for the consideration of the
Congress when, in the presence of certified ratifications by
three-fourths of the States, the time arrives for the promulgation of the adoption of the amendment. The decision by the Congress, in its control of the action of the
Secretary of State, of the question whether the amendment had been adopted within a reasonable time would
not be subject to review by the courts.
It would unduly lengthen this opinion to attempt to
review our decisions as to the class of questions deemed
to be political and not justiciable. In determining
whether a question falls within that category, the appropriateness under our system of government of attributing
finality to the action of the political departments and also
the lack of satisfactory criteria for a judicial determina-

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of the Court.

tion are dominant considerations." There are many illustrations in the field of our conduct of foreign relations,
where there are "considerations of policy, considerations
of extreme magnitude, and certainly, entirely incompetent to the examination and decision of a court of justice." Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199, 260.31 Questions involving similar considerations are found in the government of our internal affairs. Thus, under Article IV,
§ 4, of the Constitution, providing that the United States
"shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government," we have held that it rests
with the Congress to decide what government is the established one in a State and whether or not it is republican in form. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 42. In that
case Chief Justice Taney observed that "when the senators and representatives of a State are admitted into the
councils of the Union, the authority of the government
under which they are appointed, as well as its republican
character, is recognized by the proper constitutional authority. And its decision is binding on every other department of the government, and could not be questioned
in a judicial tribunal." So, it was held in the same case
that under the provision of the same Article for the protection of each of the States "against domestic violence"
it rested with the Congress "to determine upon the means
proper to be adopted to fulfil this guarantee." Id., p. 43.
So, in Pacific Telephone Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118, we
considered that questions arising under the guaranty of
'See Willoughby, op. cit., pr. 1326, et seq.; Oliver P. Field, "The
Doctrine of Political Questions in the Federal Courts," 8 Minnesota
Law Review, 485; Melville Fuller Weston, "Political Questions," 38
Harvard Law Review, 296.
"See, also, United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 634; Foster v.
Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 309; Doe v. Braden, 16 How. 635, 657; Terlinden
-v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 288.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

307 U. S.

J., concurring.

a republican form of government had long since been
"definitely determined to be political and governmental"
and hence that the question whether the government of
Oregon had ceased to be republican in form because of a
constitutional amendment by which the people reserved
to themselves power to propose and enact laws independently of the legislative assembly and also to approve or
reject any act of that body, was a question for the determination of the Congress. It would be finally settled
when the Congress admitted the senators and representatives of the State.
For the reasons we have stated, which we think to be
as compelling as those which underlay the cited decisions,
we think that the Congress in controlling the promulgation of the adoption of a constitutional amendment has
the final determination of the question whether by lapse
of time its proposal of the amendment had lost its vitality
prior to the required ratifications. The state officials
should not be restrained from certifying to the Secretary
of State the adoption by the legislature of Kansas of the
resolution of ratification.
As we find no reason for disturbing the decision of the
Supreme Court of Kansas in denying the mandamus
sought by petitioners, its judgment is affirmed but upon
the grounds stated in this opinion.
Affirmed.

Concurring opinion by

MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

in which

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join.

Although, for reasons to be stated by

and

MR. JUSTICE

we believe this cause should be dismissed,
the ruling of the Court just announced removes from the
case the question of petitioners' standing to sue. Under
FRANKFURTER,

the compulsion of that ruling,1

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

'Cf., Helvering v. Davis, 301 U. S. 619, 639-40.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

BLACK, J., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and I

have participated in the discussion of other questions
considered by the Court and we concur in the result
reached, but for somewhat different reasons.
The Constitution grants Congress exclusive power to
control submission of constitutional amendments. Final
determination by Congress that ratification by threefourths of the States has taken place "is conclusive upon
the courts." ' In the exercise of that power, Congress,
of course, is governed by the Constitution. However,
whether submission, intervening procedure or Congressional determination of ratification conforms to the
commands of the Constitution, calls for decisions by
a "political department" of questions of a type
which this Court has frequently designated "political."
And decision of a "political question" by the "political
department" to which the Constitution has committed it
"conclusively binds the judges, as well as all other officers, citizens and subjects of . . .government." ' Proclamation under authority of Congress that an amendment
has been ratified will carry with it a solemn assurance
by the Congress that ratification has taken place as the
Constitution commands. Upon this assurance a proclaimed amendment must be accepted as a part of the
'Leser v. Garnett, 258 U. S. 130, 137.

'Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 212; Foster v. Neilson, 2
Pet. 253, 309, 314; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 42; In re Cooper,
143 U. S. 472, 503; Pacific States Telephone Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S.
118; Davis v. Ohio, 241 U. S. 565, 569. "And in this view, it is not
material to inquire, nor is it the province of the court to determine,
whether the executive ["political department"] be right or wrong.
It is enough to know that in the exercise of his constitutional functions, he had decided the question. Having done this, under the
responsibilities which belong to him, it is obligatory on the people and
government of the Union.

.

.

.

this court have laid down the

rule, that the action of the political branches of the government in a
matter that belongs to them, is conclusive." Williams v. Suffolk Ins.
Co., 13 Pet. 415, 420.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., concurring.

307 U. S.

Constitution, leaving to the judiciary its traditional authority of interpretation. To the extent that the Court's
opinion in the present case even impliedly assumes a
power to make judicial interpretation of the exclusive
constitutional authority of Congress over submission and
ratification of amendments, we are unable to agree.
The state court below assumed jurisdiction to determine whether the proper procedure is being followed
between submission and final adoption. However, it is
apparent that judicial review of or pronouncements upon
a supposed limitation of a "reasonable time" within which
Congress may accept ratification; as to whether duly
authorized state officials have proceeded properly in ratifying or voting for ratification; or whether a State may
reverse its action once taken upon a proposed amendment; and kindred questions, are all consistent only with
an ultimate control over the amending process in the
courts. And this must inevitably embarrass the course
of amendment by subjecting to judicial interference matters that we believe were intrusted by the Constitution
solely to the political branch of government.
The Court here treats the amending process of the
Constitution in some respects as subject to judicial construction, in others as subject to the final authority of the
Congress. There is no disapproval of the conclusion arrived at in Dillon v. Gloss,5 that the Constitution impliedly requires that a properly submitted amendment
must die unless ratified within a "reasonable time." Nor
does the Court now disapprove its prior assumption of
power to make such a pronouncement. And it is not
made clear that only Congress has constitutional power
to determine if there is any such implication in Article V
of the Constitution. On the other hand, the Court's
opinion declares that Congress has the exclusive power to
'Field v. Clark, 143 U.

'256 U. S. 368, 375.

S. 649, 672.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

BLACK, J., concurring.

decide the "political questions" of whether a State whose
legislature has once acted upon a proposed amendment
may subsequently reverse its position, and whether, in
the circumstances of such a case as this, an amendment is
dead because an "unreasonable" time has elapsed. No
such division between the political and judicial branches
of the government is made by Article V which grants
power over the amending of the Constitution to Congress
alone. Undivided control of that process has been given
by the Article exclusively and completely to Congress.
The process itself is "political" in its entirety, from submission until an amendment becomes part of the Constitution, and is not subject to judicial guidance, ct)ntrol or
interference at any point.
Since Congress has sole and complete control over the
amending process, subject to no judicial review, the views
of any court upon this process cannot be binding upon
Congress, and insofar as Dillon v. Gloss attempts judicially to impose a limitation upon the right of Congress
to determine final adoption of an amendment, it should
be disapproved. If Congressional determination that an
amendment has been completed and become a part of the
Constitution is final and removed from examination by
the courts, as the Court's present opinion recognizes,
surely the steps leading to that condition must be subject
to the scrutiny, control and appraisal of none save the
Congress, the body having exclusive power to make that
final determination.
Congress, possessing exclusive power over the amending process, cannot be bound by and is under no duty
to accept the pronouncements upon that exclusive power
by this Court or by the Kansas courts. Neither state
nor federal courts can review that power. Therefore, any
judicial expression amounting to more than mere acknowledgment of exclusive Congressional power over the
political process of- amendment is a mere admonition to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

307 U. S.

J.

the Congress in the nature of an advisory opinion, given
wholly without constitutional authority.

Opinion of MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.

It is the view of MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS,

MR.

JUSTICE

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and myself that the petitioners have no standing in this Court.
In endowing this Court with "judicial Power" the Constitution presupposed an historic content for that phrase
and relied on assumption by the judiciary of authority
only over issues which are appropriate for disposition by
judges. The Constitution further explicitly indicated the
limited Area within which judicial action was to movehowever far-reaching the consequences of action within
that area-by extending "judicial Power" only to "Cases"
and "Controversies." Both by what they said and by
what they implied, the framers of the Judiciary Article
gave merely the outlines of what were to them the familiar operations of the English judicial system and its manifestations on this side of the ocean before the Union.
Judicial power could come into play only in matters that
were the traditional concern of the courts at Westminster
and only if they arose in ways that to the expert feel of
lawyers constituted "Cases" or "Controversies." It was
not for courts to meddle with matters that required no
subtlety to be identified as political issues.1 And even as
to the kinds of questions which were the staple of judicial
business, it was not for courts to pass upon them as abstract, intellectual problems but only if a concrete, living
contest between adversaries called for the arbitrament of
law. Compare Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346;
Tutun v. United States, 270 U. S. 568; Willing v. ChiBLACK,

1 For an early instance of the abstention of the King's Justices
from matters political, see the Duke of York's Claim to the Crown,
House of Lords, 1460, 5 Rot. Par. 375, reprinted in Wambaugh,
Cases on Constitutional Law, 1.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of

FRANKFURTR,

J.

cago Auditorium Assn., 277 U. S. 274; Nashville, C. &
St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249.
As abstractions, these generalities represent common
ground among judges. Since, however, considerations
governing the exercise of judicial power are not mechanical criteria but derive from conceptions regarding the
distribution of governmental powers in their manifold,
changing guises, differences in the application of canons
of jurisdiction have arisen from the beginning of the
Court's history.2 Conscious or unconscious leanings
toward the serviceability of the judicial process in the
adjustment of public controversies clothed in the form
of private litigation inevitably affect decisions. For they
influence awareness in recognizing the relevance of conceded doctrines of judicial self-limitation and rigor in
enforcing them.
Of all this, the present controversy furnishes abundant
illustration. Twenty-one members of the Kansas Senate
and three members of its House of Representatives
brought an original mandamus proceeding in the Supreme
Court of that State to compel the Secretary of its Senate
to erase an endorsement on Kansas "Senate Concurrent
Resolution No. 3" of January 1937, to the effect that it
had been passed by the Senate, and instead to endorse
thereon the words "not passed." They also sought to
restrain the officers of both Senate and House from authenticating and delivering it to, the Governor of the
State for transmission to the Secretary of State of the
United States. These Kansas legislators resorted to their
Supreme Court claiming that there was no longer an
amendment open for ratification by Kansas and that, in
any event, it had not been ratified by the "legislature" of
See e. g. the opinion of Mr. Justice Iredell in Chisholm v. Georgia,
2 Dall. 419, 429; concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Johnson in
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch 87, 143; and the cases collected in the
concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

307 U. S.

Kansas, the constitutional organ for such ratification.
See Article V of the Constitution of the United States.
The Kansas Supreme Court held that the Kansas legislators had a right to its judgment on these claims, but on
the merits decided against them and denied a writ of
mandamus. Urging that such denial was in derogation
of their rights under the Federal Constitution, the legislators, having been granted certiorarito review the Kansas judgment, 303 U. S.632, ask this Court to reverse it.
Our power to do so is explicitly challenged by the
United States as amicus curiae, but would in any event
have to be faced. See Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v.
Swan, 111 U. S.379, 382. To whom and for what causes
the courts of Kansas are open are matters for Kansas to
determine.' But Kansas can not define the contours of
the authority of the federal courts, and more particularly
of this Court. It is our ultimate responsibility to determine who may invoke our judgment and under what
circumstances. Are these members of the Kansas legislature, therefore, entitled to ask us to adjudicate the
grievances of which they complain?
It is not our function, and it is beyond our power, to
write legal essays or to give legal opinions, however
solemnly requested and however great the national emergency. See the correspondence between Secretary of
State Jefferson and Chief Justice Jay, 3 Johnson, Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay, 486-89. Unlike the r6le allowed to judges in a few state courts and
to the Supreme Court of Canada, our exclusive business
is litigation.4 The requisites of litigation are not satisfied
'This is subject to some narrow exceptions not here relevant. See,
e. g., McKnett v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co., 292 U. S.230.
As to advisory opinions in use in a few of the state courts, see
J. B. Thayer, Advisory Opinions, reprinted in Legal Essays by J. B.

Thayer, at 42 et seq.; article on "Advisory Opinions," 1 Enc. Soc. Sci.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of

463

FRANKFURTER, J.

when questions of constitutionality though conveyed
through the outward forms of a conventional court proceeding do not bear special relation to a particular litigant. The scope and consequences of our doctrine of
judicial review over executive and legislative action
475. As to advisory opinions in Canada, see Attorney-General for
Ontario v. Attorney-General for Canada [1912] A. C. 571. Speaking
of the Canadian system, Lord Chancellor Haldane, in Attorney General for British Columbia v. Attorney General for Canada [1914]
A. C. 153, 162, said: "It is at times attended with inconveniences,
and it is not surprising that the Supreme Court of the United States
should have steadily refused to adopt a similar procedure, and should
have confined itself to adjudication on the legal rights of litigants in
actual controversies." For further animadversions on advisory pronouncements by judges, see Lord Chancellor Sankey in In re The
Regulation and Control of Aeronautics in Canada [1932] A. C. 54,
66: "We sympathize with the view expressed at length by Newcombe, J., which was concurred in by the Chief Justice, [of Canada]
as to the difficulty which the Court must experience in endeavoring
to answer questions put to it in this way."
Australia followed our Constitutional practice in restricting her
courts to litigious business. The experience of English history which
lay behind it was thus put in the Australian Constitutional Convention
by Mr. (later Mr. Justice) Higgins: "I feel strongly that it is most
inexpedient to break in on the established practice of the English
law, and secure decisions on facts which have not arisen yet. Of
course, it is a matter that lawyers have experience of every day,
that a judge does not give the same attention, he can not give that
same attention, to a suppositious case as when he feels the pressure
of the consequences to a litigant before him. . . . But here is an
attempt to allow this High Court, before cases have arisen, to make
a pronouncement upon the law that will be binding. I think
the imagination of judges, like that of other persons, is limited, and
they are not able to put before their minds all the complex circumstances which may arise and which they ought to have in their minds
when giving a decision. If there is one thing more than another which
is recognized in British jurisprudence it is that a judge never gives a
decision until the facts necessary for that decision have arisen." Rep.
Nat. Austral. Conv. Deb. (1897) 966-67.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

FUANKURTR, J.

307 U. S.

should make us observe fastidiously the bounds of the
No
litigious process within which we are confined.'
matter how seriously infringement of the Constitution
may be called into question, this is not the tribunal for
its challenge except by those who have some specialized
interest of their own to vindicate, apart from a political
concern which belongs to all. Stearns v. Wood, 236 U. S.
75; Fairchildv. Hughes, 258 U. S. 126.
In the familiar language of jurisdiction, these Kansas
legislators must have standing in this Court. What is
their distinctive claim to be here, not possessed by every
Kansan? What is it that they complain of, which could
not be complained of here by all their fellow citizens?
The answer requires analysis of the grievances which they
urge.
They say that it was beyond the power of the Kansas
legislature, no matter who voted or how, to ratify the
Child Labor Amendment because for Kansas there was
no Child Labor Amendment to ratify. Assuming that
an amendment proposed by the Congress dies of inanition
after what is to be deemed a "reasonable" time, they
claim that, having been submitted in 1924, the proposed
Child Labor Amendment was no longer alive in 1937.
Or, if alive, it was no longer so for Kansas because, by a
prior resolution of rejection in 1925, Kansas had exhausted her power. In no respect, however, do these
objections relate to any secular interest that pertains to
these Kansas legislators apart from interests that belong
to the entire commonalty of Kansas. The fact that these
legislators are part of the ratifying mechanism while the
ordinary citizen of Kansas is not, is wholly irrelevant to
this issue. On this aspect of the case the problem would
be exactly the same if all but one legislator had voted
for ratification.
'See the series of cases beginning with Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409,
through United States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of

FRANKFURTR,

J.

Indeed the claim that the Amendment was dead or that
it was no longer open to Kansas to ratify, is not only not
an interest which belongs uniquely to these Kansas legislators; it is not even an interest special to Kansas. For
it is the common concern of every citizen of the United
States whether the Amendment is still alive, or whether
Kansas could be included among the necessary "threefourths of the several States."
These legislators have no more standing on these claims
of unconstitutionality to attack "Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 3" than they would have standing here to
attack some Kansas statute claimed by them to offend
the Commerce Clause. By as much right could a member of the Congress who had voted against the passage
of a bill because moved by constitutional scruples urge
before this Court our duty to consider his arguments of
unconstitutionality.
Clearly a Kansan legislator would have no standing
had he brought suit in a federal court. Can the Kansas
Supreme Court transmute the general interest in these
constitutional claims into the individualized legal interest
indispensable here? No doubt the bounds of such legal
interest have a penumbra which gives some freedom in
judging fulfilment of our jurisdictional requirements.
The doctrines affecting standing to sue in the federal
courts will not be treated as mechanical yardsticks in
assessing state court ascertainments of legal interest
brought here for review. For the creation of a vast domain of legal interests is in the keeping of the states, and
from time to time state courts and legislators give legal
protection to new individual interests. Thus, while the
ordinary state taxpayer's suit is not recognized in the
federal courts, it affords adequate standing for review of
state decisions when so recognized by state courts
Coyle v. Smith, 221 U. S. 559; Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S.
175.
161290 -39--30

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

307 U. S.

But it by no means follows that a state court ruling on
the adequacy of legal interest is binding here. Thus, in
Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S. 405, the notion was rejected
that merely because the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts found an interest of sufficient legal significance for assailing a statute, this Court must consider
such claim. Again, this Court has consistently held that
the interest of a state official in vindicating the Constitution of the United States gives him no legal standing
here to attack the constitutionality of a state statute in
order to avoid compliance with it. Smith v. Indiana, 191
U. S. 138; Braxton County Court v. West Virginia, 208
U. S. 192; Marshall v. Dye, 231 U. S. 250; Stewart v.
Kansas City, 239 U. S. 14. Nor can recognition by a state
court of such an undifferentiated, general interest confer
jurisdiction on us. Columbus & Greenville Ry. Co. v.
Miller, 283 U. S. 96, reversing Miller v. Columbus &
Greenville Ry., 154 Miss. 317; 122 So. 366. Contrariwise,
of course, an official has a legally recognized duty to enforce a statute which he is charged with enforcing. And
so, an official who is obstructed in the performance of his
duty under a state statute because his state court found
a violation of the United States Constitution may, since
the Act of December 23, 1914, 38 Stat. 790, ask this Court
to remove the fetters against enforcement of his duty
imposed by the state court because of an asserted misconception of the Constitution. Such a situation is represented by Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, and satisfied the requirement of legal interest in Boynton v.
Hutcheson, 291 U. S. 656, certioraridismissed on another
ground in 292 U. S. 601.'
'A quick summary of the jurisdiction of this Court over state court
decisions leaves no room for doubt that the fact that the present case
is here on certiorariis wholly irrelevant to our assumption of jurisdiction. Section 25 of the First Judiciary Act gave reviewing power to
this Court only over state court decisions denying a claim of federal

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of

FMANKFURTER,

J.

We can only adjudicate an issue as to which there is a
claimant before us who has a special, individualized stake
in it. One who is merely the self-constituted spokesman
of a constitutional point of view can not ask us to pass on
it. The Kansas legislators could not bring suit explicitly
on behalf of the people of the United States to determine
whether Kansas could still vote for the Child Labor
Amendment. They can not gain standing here by having
brought such a suit in their own names. Therefore, none
of the petitioners can here raise questions concerning
the power of the Kansas legislature to ratify the
Amendment.
This disposes of the standing of the three members of
the lower house who seek to invoke the jurisdiction of
this Court. They have no standing here. Equally withright. This restriction was, of course, born of fear of disobedience
by the state judiciaries of national authority. The Act of September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726, withdrew from this obligatory jurisdiction cases where the state decision was against a "title, right, privilege, or immunity" claimed to exist under the Constitution, laws,
treaties or authorities of the United States. This change, which
was inspired mainly by a desire to eliminate from review as of
right cases arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, left
such review only in cases where the validity of a treaty, statute or
authority of the United States was drawn into question and the
decision was against the validity, and in cases where the validity of a
statute of a state or a state authority was drawn into question on
the grounds of conflict with federal law and the decision was in
favor of its validity. The Act of February 13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936,
937, extended this process of restricting our obligatory jurisdiction
by transferring to review by certiorari cases in which the state court
had held invalid an "authority" claimed to be exercised under the laws
of the United States or in which it had upheld, against claims of
invalidity on federal grounds, an "authority" exercised under the
laws of the states. Neither the terms of these two restrictions nor
the controlling comments in committee reports or by members of
this Court who had a special share in promoting the Acts of 1916
and 1925, give any support for believing that by contracting the
range of obligatory jurisdiction over state adjudications Congress

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTR,

J.

307 U. S.

out litigious standing is the member of the Kansas Senate who voted for "Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 3."
He cannot claim that his vote was denied any parliamentary efficacy to which it was entitled. There remains
for consideration only the claim of the twenty nay-voting
senators that the Lieutenant-Governor of Kansas, the
presiding officer of its Senate, had, under the Kansas
Constitution, no power to break the tie in the senatorial
vote on the Amendment, thereby depriving their votes
of the effect of creating such a tie. Whether this is the
tribunal before which such a question can be raised by
these senators must be determined even before considering whether the issue which they pose is justiciable. For
the latter involves questions affecting the distribution of
constitutional power which should be postponed to preliminaxy questions of legal standing to sue.
enlarged the jurisdiction of the Court by removing the established
requirement of legal interest as a threshold condition to being here.
Nor does the Act of December 23, 1914, 38 Stat. 790, touch the
present problem. By that Act, Congress for the first time gave
this Court power to review state court decisions sustaining a federal
right. For this purpose it made certiorari available. The Committee reports and the debates on this Act prove that its purpose was
merely to remove the unilateral quality of Supreme Court review
of state court decisions on constitutional questions as to which
this Court has the ultimate say. The Act did not create a new legal
interest as a basis of review here; it built on the settled doctrine
that an official has a legally recognizable duty to carry out a statute
which he is supposed to enforce.
Thus, prior to the Act of 1914, the Kentucky case, post, p. 474,
could not have come here at all, and prior to 1916, the Kansas case
would have come here, if at all, by writ of error. By allowing
cases from state courts which previously could not have come here
at all to come here on certiorari the Act of 1914 merely lifted
the previous bar-that' a federal claim had been sustained-but left
every other requisite of jurisdiction unchanged. Similarly, no
change in these requisites was affected by the Acts of 1916 and
1925 in confining certain categories of litigation from the state courts
to our discretionary instead of obligatory reviewing power.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

The right of the Kansas senators to be here is rested
on recognition by Leser v. Garnett, 258 U. S. 130, of a
voter's right to protect his franchise. The historic source
of this doctrine and the reasons for it were explained in
Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, 540. That was an action
for $5,000 damages against the Judges of Elections for
refusing to permit the plaintiff to vote at a primary election in Texas. In disposing of the objection that the
plaintiff had no cause of action because the subject matter of the suit was political, Mr. Justice Holmes thus
spoke for the Court: "Of course the petition concerns
political action but it alleges and seeks to recover for private damage. That private damage may be caused by
such political action and may be recovered for in a suit at
law hardly has been doubted for over two hundred years,
since Ashby v. White, 2 Ld. Raym. 938, 3 id. 320, and has
been recognized by this Court." "Private damage" is the
clue to the famous ruling in Ashby v. White, supra, and
determines its scope as well as that of cases in this Court
of which it is the justification. The judgment of Lord
Holt, is permeated with the conception that a voter's
franchise is a personal right, assessable in money damages, of which the exact amount "is peculiarly appropriate
for the determination of a jury," see Wiley v. Sinkler,
179 U. S. 58, 65, and for which there is no remedy outside
the law courts. "Although this matter relates to the
parliament," said Lord Holt, "yet it is an injury precedaneous to the parliament, as my Lord Hale said in the case
of Bernardiston v. Soame, 2 Lev. 114, 116. The parliament cannot judge of this injury, nor give damage to the
plaintiff for it: they cannot make him a recompense."
2 Ld. Raym. 938, 958.
The reasoning of Ashby v. White and the practice
which has followed it leave intra-parliamentary controversies to parliaments and outside the scrutiny of law
courts. The procedures for voting in legislative assem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

blies-who are members, how and when they should vote,
what is the requisite number of votes -for different phases
of legislative activity, what votes were cast and how they
were counted-surely are matters that not merely concern
political action but are of the very essence of political
action, if "political" has any connotation at all. Field
v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 670, et seq.; Leser v. Garnett,
258 U. S. 130, 137. In no sense are they matters of
"private damage." They pertain to legislators not as
individuals but as political representatives executing the
legislative process. To open the law courts to such controversies is to have courts sit in judgment on the manifold disputes engendered by procedures for voting in legislative assemblies. If the doctrine of Ashby v. White
vindicating the private rights of a voting citizen has not
been doubted for over two hundred years, it is equally
significant that for over two hundred years Ashby v.
White has not been sought to be put to purposes like the
present. In seeking redress here these Kansas senators
have wholly misconceived the functions of this Court.
The writ of certiorari to the Kansas Supreme Court
should therefore be dismissed.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER,

dissenting.

The Child Labor Amendment was proposed in 1924;
more than 13 years elapsed before the Kansas legislature
voted, as the decision just announced holds, to ratify it.
Petitioners insist that more than a reasonable time had
elapsed and that, therefore, the actioil of the state legislature is without force. But this Court now holds that
the question is not justiciable, relegates it to the "consideration of the Congress when, in the presence of certified ratifications by three-fourths of the States the time
arrives for the promulgation of the adoption of the
amendment" and declares that the decision by Congress
would not be subject to review by the courts.

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

In Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U. S. 368, one imprisoned for
transportation of intoxicating liquor in violation of § 3
of the National Prohibition Act, instituted habeas corpus
proceedings to obtain his release on the ground that the
Eighteenth Amendment was invalid because the resolution proposing it declared that it should not be operative
unless ratified within seven years. The Amendment was
ratified in less than ,a year and a half. We definitely held
that Article V impliedly requires amendments submitted
to be ratified within a reasonable time after proposal;
that Congress may fix a reasonable time for ratification,
and that the period of seven years fixed by the Congress
was reasonable.
We said:
"It will be seen that this article says nothing about the
time within which ratifiation may be had-neither that
it shall be unlimited nor that it shall be fixed by Congress. What, then, is the reasonable inference or implication? Is it that ratification may be had at any time,
as within a few years, a century or even a longer period;
or that it must be had within some reasonable period
which Congress is left free to define?
"We do not find anything in the Article which suggests
that an amendment once proposed is to be open to ratification for all time, or that ratification in some of the
States may be separated from that in others by many
years and yet be effective. We do find that which
strongly suggests the contrary. First, proposal and ratification are not treated as unrelated acts, but as succeeding steps in a single endeavor, the natural inference being
that they are not to be widely separated in time. Secondly, it is only when there is deemed to be a necessity
therefor that amendments are to be proposed, the reasonable implication being that when proposed they are to be
considered and disposed of presently. Thirdly, as ratification is but the expression of the approbation of the people
and is to be effective when had in three-fourths of the

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

States, there is a fair implication that it must be sufficiently contemporaneous in that number of States to
reflect the will of the people in all sections at relatively
the same period, which of course ratification scattered
through a-long series of years would not do. These considerations and the general purport and spirit of the
Article lead to the conclusion expressed by Judge Jameson
[in his Constitutional Conventions, 4th ed. § 585] 'that
an alteration of the Constitution proposed today has
relation to the sentiment and the felt needs of today, and
that, if not ratified early while that sentiment may fairly
be supposed to exist, it ought to be regarded as waived,
and not again to be voted upon, unless ,a second time proposed by Congress.' That this is the better conclusion
becomes even more manifest when what is comprehended
in the other view is considered; for, according to it, four
amendments proposed long ago-two in 1789, one in
1810, and one in 1861-are still pending and in a situation
where their ratification in some of the States many years
since by representatives of generations now largely forgotten may be effectively supplemented in enough more
States to make three-fourths by representatives of the
present or some future generation. To that view few
would be able to subscribe, and in our opinion it is quite
untenable. We conclude that the fair inference or implication from Article V is that the ratification must be
within some reasonable time after the proposal.
"Of the power of Congress, keeping within reasonable
limits, to fix a definite period for the ratification we entertain no doubt. . . Whether a definite period for
ratification shall be fixed so that all may know what it is
and speculation on what is a reasonable time may be
avoided, is, in our opinion, a matter of detail which Congress may determine as an incident of its power to designate the mode of ratification. It is not questioned that
seven years, the period fixed in this instance, was reason-

COLEMAN v. MILLER.
433

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

able, if power existed to fix a definite time; nor could it
well be questioned considering the periods within which
prior amendments were ratified."
Upon the reasoning of our opinion in that case, I would
hold that more than a reasonable time had elapsed* and
*CHRONOLOGY

OF CHILD LABOR AMENDMENT.

[A State is said to have "rejected" when both Houses of its legislature passed resolutions of rejection, and to have "refused to ratify"
when both Houses defeated resolution for ratification.]
. June 2, 1924, Joint Resolution deposited in State Department. In
that year, Arkansas ratified; North Carolina rejected. Ratification, 1;
rejection, 1.
1925, Arizona, California and Wisconsin ratified; Florida, Georgia,
Indiana, Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New
Hampshire, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
and Vermont rejected; Connecticut, Delaware and South Dakota
refused to ratify. Ratifications, 4; rejections, 16; refusals to
ratify, 3.
1926, Kentucky and Virginia rejected. Ratifications, 4; rejections,
18; refusals to ratify, 3.
1927, Montana, ratified; Maryland rejected. Ratifications, 5; rejections, 19; refusals to ratify, S.
1931, Colorado ratified. Ratifications, 6; rejections, 19; refusals
to ratify, 3.
1933, Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, New Jersey, North Dakota, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Oregon, Washington and West Virginia ratified as did
also Maine, Minnesota, New Hampshire, and Pennsylvania, which had
rejected in 1925. Ratifications, 20; rejections, (eliminating States
subsequently ratifying) 15; refusals to ratify, 3.
1935, Idaho and Wyoming ratified, as did Utah and Indiana, which
had rejected in 1925. As in 1925, Connecticut refused to ratify.
Ratifications, 24; rejections, 13; refusals to ratify, 3.
1936, Kentucky, which had rejected in 1926, ratified. Ratifications,
25; rejections, 12; refusals to ratify, 3.
1937, Nevada and New Mexico ratified, as did Kansas, which had
rejected in 1925. Massachusetts, which had rejected in 1925, refused
to ratify. Ratifications, 28; rejections, 11; refusals to ratify, 3.
Six States are not included in this list: Alabama, Louisiafia, Mississippi, Nebaska, New York and Rhode Island. It appears that
there has never been a vote in Alabama or Rhode Island. Louisiana

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

that the judgment of the Kansas supreme court should
be reversed.
The point that the question-whether more than a
reasonable time had elapsed-is not justiciable but one
for Congress after attempted ratification by the requisite
number of States, was not raised by the parties or by the
United States appearing as amicus curiae; it was not
suggested by us when ordering reargument. As the Court,
in the Dillon case, did directly decide upon the reasonableness of the seven years fixed by the Congress, it
ought not now, without hearing argument upon the point,
hold itself to lack power to decide whether more than 13
years between proposal by Congress and attempted ratification by Kansas is reasonable.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

joins in this opinion.

CHANDLER, GOVERNOR OF KENTUCKY,
WISE ET AL.

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 14.

Argued October 10, 11, 1938. Reargued April 18, 1939.Decided June 5, 1939.

Suit was brought in a state court to restrain the Governor and other
state officials from sending to the Secretary of State of the United
States a certified copy of a resolution enacted by the state legislature purporting to ratify the proposed Child Labor Amendment
house of representatives has three times (1924, 1934 and 1936)
defeated resolutions for ratification. In Mississippi, the Senate
adopted resolution for ratification in 1934, but in 1936 another
Senate resolution for ratification was adversely reported. In Nebraska, the House defeated ratification resolutions in 1927 and 1935,
but the Senate passed such a resolution in 1929. In New York,
ratification was defeated in the House in 1935 and 1937, and in the
latter year, the Senate passed such a resolution.

