OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

478

Syllabus

307 U. S.

was no longer a controversy susceptible of judicial
determination.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
think that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky should be affirmed on the authority of Dillon v.
Gloss, 256 U. S. 368, and for the reasons stated in the dis-

senting opinion in Coleman v. Miller, ante, p. 470.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

con-

curring:
For the reasons stated in concurring opinion in Coleman v. Miller, ante, p. 456, we do not believe that state or
federal courts have any jurisdiction to interfere with the
amending process.
We therefore concur in the dismissal.

BALDWIN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. SCOTT COUNTY
MILLING CO.

CERTIORARI TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 650.

Argued April 21, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

1. Where a carrier, having been ordered by the Interstate Commerce Commission to make reparation to a shipper for tariff
charges then found by the Commission to have been excessive,
pays the required amount upon demand of the shipper without
waiting to be sued under the disadvantages prescribed by § 16 (2)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, the payment is not voluntary;
and where afterwards, upon rehearing, the Commission sets aside
the reparation order, because the finding of unreasonable rates
upon which it was based was erroneous, the carrier may maintain
a suit to recover the payment from the shipper. This accords
with the policy of the Act. P. 481.
The fact that the shipper paid part of the money to an expert,
who acted for it before the Commission in procuring the repara-

BALDWIN v. MILLING CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

tion, recovery of which is barred by limitations, and has used the
remainder for its own purposes, furnishes no equitable defense
to 'the suit for refund. P. 485.
2. Equitable considerations can not justify failure of a carrier to
collect, or of a shipper to pay, the tariff charges required by the
Interstate Commerce Act. P. 485.
343 Mo. 915; 122 S. W. 2d 890, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 625, to review a judgment of
the court below, which affirmed a judgment of a circuit court of Missouri for the defendant, in an action
brought by the trustees of the Missouri Pacific Railway
Company to recover an amount of money which the company had paid to the defendant in pursuance of an
order of reparation made by the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. H. H. Larimore, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Cole
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. James A. Finch, with whom Messrs. Ralph E.
Bailey and R. F. Baynes were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The decision in this case depends on provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act and orders of the commission.
In September, 1924, respondent and others complained
to the commission that the tariff charges they had been
and were then paying the Missouri Pacific and other carriers for the transportation of coal from mines in southern
Illinois and western Kentucky to destinations in southeastern Missouri and northeastern Arkansas, were excessive. They asked the commission to establish reasonable
rates for the future, to ascertain the amount of damages
they had sustained, and to order the carriers to make
reparation. After hearings the commission, by order of
February 11, 1929, and supplemental order of March 11

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

in the same year, found that the carriers' tariff rates had
been, were, and for the future would be, unreasonable to
an extent indicated, prescribed as reasonable lower rates
to be established for the future, and found that complainants including respondent, having paid excessive charges,
had suffered damages and were entitled to reparation to
the extent of the difference between amounts paid and
what the charges would have been under the rates that
the commission then found reasonable.
On demand of the respondent, made in accordance with
the commission's rules of practice,1 the Missouri Pacific
before April 20, 1929, paid it $23,994.33, being the
amounts directed to be paid by the reparation order on
account of shipments for which the Missburi Pacific, delivering carrier, had collected the charges. After denial
of a number of petitions for rehearing filed by the Missouri Pacific and other carriers, the commission, November 2, 1931, reopened the case. July 3, 1933, after hearings and protracted contest, it found the rates that it had
theretofore condemned were not unreasonable and set
aside all findings and orders that it had made, including
the reparation order on which respondent had collected.
October 30, 1934, petitioners, who had been appointed
trustees of the Missouri Pacific, asked respondent to refund the amount it had received; respondent refused. To
recover with interest the amount the Missouri Pacific
paid, petitioners brought this suit in a circuit court of
Missouri; it gave judgment for respondent. The supreme
court affirmed. It held that, as the Missouri Pacific had
paid the amount of the reparation award with full knowledge of the facts without denying liability or waiting to
be sued, the payment was a voluntary one and that therefore petitioners were not entitled to recover. The court
'The applicable rule is V: Reparation Statements-Formal Claims
for Reparation Based Upon Findings of the Commission. See Rules
of Practice Before the Commission, revised to April 1, 1936.

BALDWIN v. MILLING CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

also held that by the voluntary payment the Missouri
Pacific caused respondent to believe that the matter was a
closed transaction and that in the circumstances, to which
reference will later be made, it would be inequitable to
require respondent to refund.
We think that petitioners are entitled to recover.
1. In absence of prior finding by the commission that
the tariff charges collected for interstate transportation
are unreasonable, there can be no enforceable claim for
damages caused by exactions according to the tariff. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426,
444. Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506,
510. Mitchell Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 230 U. S.
247, 259. And see Lewis-Simas-Jones Co. v. Southern
Pacific R. Co., 283 U. S. 654, 661; Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co. v. Brady, 288 U. S. 448, 458. Prior to the findings
and orders of the commission, February 11 and March 11,
1929, respondent was not permitted to collect, nor was
the Missouri Pacific or other carriers allowed to pay, the
damages claimed by respondent. But when the commission made the findings and reparation orders, the carriers,
in the absence of facts constituting a defense, were in
duty bound to pay in accordance with the orders.
Section 16 (1)2 provides that if the commission shall
determine complainant entitled to an award of damages,
it shall direct the carrier to pay complainant the sum to
which he is found entitled within a specified time. Section 16 (2)1 declares that if the carrier does not comply
2 "If,

after hearing on a complaint made as provided in section 13

of this chapter, the commission shall determine that any party complainant is entitled to an award of damages under the provisions of
this chapter for a violation thereof, the commission shall make an
order directing the carrier to pay to the complainant the sum to
which he is entitled on or before a day named." 49 U. S. C. § 16 (1).
"If a carrier does not comply with an order for the payment
of money within the time limit in such order, the complainant,
or any person for whose benefit such order was made, may file in
161299-39-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

within the time limit, complainant may bring suit setting
forth the causes for which he claims damages. It also
declares that, in claimants' suits in federal courts, the
findings and order of the commission shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated. It allows plaintiffs,
if they prevail, to recover reasonable attorneys' fees. By
thus laying on the carriers the burden of bringing forward evidence to overcome presumptions created against
them, and by compelling them, if defeated; to pay plaintiffs' attorneys' fees in addition to the interest allowed
by law, the Act unmistakably evidences purpose directly
to prevent interposition of pleas lacking merit and so coercively to bring about prompt payment of the commission's awards. In Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R.
Co., 236 U. S. 412, this Court, upholding the clause as
to attorneys' fees, said (p. 433): "The provision is leveled
against common carriers engaged in interstate commerce,
a quasi public business, and is confined to cases wherein
a recovery is had for damages resulting from the carrier's
violation of some duty imposed in the public interest by
the Act to Regulate Commerce. . . . One of its purposes is to promote a closer observance by carriers of the
duties so imposed; and that there is also a purpose to
the district court of the United States for the district in which he
resides or in which is located the principal operating office of the
carrier, or through which the road of the carrier runs, or in any
State court of general jurisdiction having jurisdiction of the parties,
a petition setting forth briefly the causes for which he claims damages, and the order of the commission in the premises. Such suit
in the district court of the United States shall proceed in all respects
like other civil suits for damages, except that on the trial of such
suit the findings and order of the commission shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated, and except that the petitioner
shall not be liable for costs in the district court nor for costs at any
subsequent stage of the proceedings unless they accrue upon his
appeal. If the petitioner shall finally prevail he shall be allowed
a reasonable attorney's fee, to be taxed and collected as a part of
the costs of the suit." 49 U. S. C. § 16 (2).

BALDWIN v. MILLING CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

encourage the payment, without suit, of just demands does
not militate against its validity. And in St. Louis & S. F.
R. Co. v. Spiller, 275 U. S. 156, referring to the same
provision, we said (p. 159): "The purpose of Congress
in making the provision concerning costs was to discourage harassing resistance by a carrier to a reparation
order."
There is nothing in the record to indicate, nor is it suggested by respondent or in the state court's opinion, that
the Missouri Pacific had any defense against respondent's
claim under the findings and reparation order. The liability so established persisted until payment of the claim.
It may not reasonably be held that the Missouri Pacific
was bound to await suit or delay adjudication by false or
frivolous answer while expenses of litigation, interest, and
fees for its adversary's counsel accumulated. Sections
16 (1) and 16 (2) indicate legislative purpose to penalize
failure of carriers, having no defense, to pay damages in
accordance with the terms of the commission's findings
and reparation orders.
But by § 16a,' the commission was empowered to set
aside its orders. That section was drafted by the corn'"After a decision, order, or requirement has been made by the
commission in any proceeding any party thereto may at any time
make application for rehearing of the same, or any matter de-

termined therein, and it shall be lawful for the commission in its
discretion to grant such a rehearing if sufficient reason therefor be
made to appear. Applications for rehearing shall be governed by
such general rules as the commission may establish. No such application shall excuse any carrier from complying with or obeying any
decision, order, or requirement of the commission, or operate in
any manner to stay or postpone the enforcement thereof, without the
special order of the commission. In case a rehearing is granted
the proceedings thereupon shall conform as nearly as may be to the
proceedings in an original hearing, except as the commission may
otherwise direct; and if, in its judgment, after such rehearing and
the consideration of all facts, including those arising since the former
hearing, it shall appear that the original decision, order, or require-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

mission at the request of the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce and was added by the Hepburn Act of
1906. It was "a new section . . . which expressly authorizes the commission to review and modify its own decisions." ' It was expounded by the commission as "intended to give the commission a right to rehear a matter
for the purpose of correcting any injustice in a previous
order." Cattle Raisers' Assn. v. Missouri, K. & T. Ry.
Co., 12 I. C. C. 1, 3. While careful to prevent applications for rehearing from being used to avoid or delay
compliance with the commission's orders, it empowers
the commission at any time to grant rehearings as to any
decision, order, or requirement and to reverse, change, or
modify the same. Respondent made its demand and
collected the money subject to the authority of the commission to set aside the order which authorized payment
of the same.
The clauses of § 16a that authorize the commission to
consider facts arising after the former hearing and that
make its decisions after rehearing subject to the same
provisions as an original order manifest the purpose of the
Act to require carriers to serve for, and the shippers to
pay, the lawful tariff rates. The Act condemns every
deviation from lawful tariff rates. It declares that no
carrier may lawfully collect a greater or less or different
compensation for transportation than the rates specified
in the tariff filed nor refund or remit any portion of the
rates so specified. § 6 (7); see also § 10 (2). Similarly,
it condemns the obtaining of transportation for less than
ment is in any respect unjust or unwarranted, the commission may
reverse, change, or modify the same accordingly. Any decision, order,
or requirement made after such rehearing, reversing, changing, or
modifying the original determination shall be subject to the same
provisions as an original order." 49 U. S. C. § 16a.
Nineteenth Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, p. 12.

BALDWIN v. MILLING CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

the legally established rate. See § 10 (3) and (4). Involuntary rebates as well as those that are voluntary are
prohibited. Lowden v. Simonds-Shields-Lonsdale Grain
Co., 306 U. S. 516. Pittsburgh,C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Fink, 250 U. S. 577, 582. New York Central & H. R. R.
Co. v. York & Whitney Co., 256 U. S. 406. By accepting
delivery of the coal, respondent became bound to pay the
tariff charges. As the commission has found them not
unreasonable -but lawful, respondent is without right to
retain the amount it collected upon the claim that they
were excessive.
The retention by respondent of money collected under
the findings and order that the commission later set aside
and vacated clearly would be repugnant to the policy and
provisions of the Act.
2. The facts on which the state court held it would be
inequitable to require respondent to refund may be
briefly stated. Respondent employed an expert to represent it before the commission and promised to pay him
one-half the amount recovered as reparation. Upon collection, it promptly paid as agreed. When petitioners
asked refund, more than five years had elapsed and suit
to recover back the fee was barred by the statute of
limitations. Respondent used the other half to pay dividends and for other corporate purposes. As above indicated, the court held the payment to be voluntary and
rested its ruling on that fact. But as shown above it was
not voluntary; it was demanded by respondent and compelled by the Act, findings, and reparation order. Moreover, equitable considerations may not serve to justify
failure of carrier to collect, or retention by shipper of,
any part of lawful tariff charges. Pittsburgh, C., C. &
St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, supra. New York Central & H. R.
R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co., supra.
Reversed.

