JAMESON & CO. v. MORGENTHAU.

171

Counsel for Parties.

WILLIAM JAMESON & CO. v. MORGENTHAU,
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 717. Argued May 1, 1939.-Decided May 15, 1939.
1. Section 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937, providing for a court
of three judges and a direct appeal to this Court, is not applicable unless the questions raised as to the constitutional validity
of an Act of Congress are substantial. P. 172.
2. There is no substance in the contention that the Twenty-first
Amendment gives to the States complete and exclusive control
over commerce in intoxicating liquors, unlimited by the commerce
clause, and hence that Congress has no longer authority to control
the importation of these commodities into the United States.
P. 172.
3. A suit challenging the validity of regulations and administrative action under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, but
raising no substantial question of constitutional validity as to the
Act itself, is not within § 3 of the Act of August 24, 1937, providing for a three-judge District Court, and direct appeal to this
Court, in cases of attack upon an "Act of Congress" upon the
ground that "such Act or any part thereof is repugnant to
the Constitution of the Uriited States." P. 173.
4. Lacking jurisdiction to review the merits on an appeal mistakenly taken under § 3 of the. Act of August 24, 1937, this Court
vacates the decree below and remands the case to the District
Court for further proceedings to be taken independently of that
section. P. 174.
25 F. Supp. 771, decree vacated.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying an
application for a preliminary injunction and dismissing
the bill in a suit to enjoin enforcement of provisions of
the Alcohol Administration Act and of regulations thereunder.

Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. John F.
Moore and William E. Stevenson were on the brief, for
appellant.

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Solicitor General Jackson and Mr. Philip E. Buck, with
whom Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
CharlesA. Horsky and John Paulding Brown were on the
brief, for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

Appellant, an importer and distributor of alcoholic
beverages, having been denied the right to import its
product into the United States under the label of
"blended Scotch whisky," upon the ground that it was
improperly labeled, brought this suit against the Secretary of the Treasury and other officials to enjoin them
from refusing to release the product from customs custody
upon payment of the required customs duties. Appellant
also asked for a declaratory judgment that the Federal
Alcohol Administration Act, 49 Stat. 977, 1965, is unconstitutional and void and that Regulations No. 5 promulgated thereunder, and particularly §§ 21 (k), 34 (f) and
46 (a) of these Regulations, are unenforceable as against
appellant and are without warrant of statutory authority.
In the view that the question of the validity of an Act
of Congress was involved and that the suit was within the
purview of § 3 of the Act of Congress of August 24, 1937,
50 Stat. 751, the case was heard below by a court of three
judges, which denied an application for preliminary injunction and dismissed the complaint. 25 F. Supp. 771.
From its decree a direct appeal has been taken to this
Court.
Section 3 of the Act of Congress of August 24, 1937,
providing for a court of three judges and a direct appeal
to this Court, is not applicable unless the questions raised
as to the constitutional validity of an Act of Congress are
substantial. California Water Service Co. v. Redding,
304 U. S. 252, 254, 255.
Here, the Federal Alcohol Administration Act was attacked upon the ground that the Twenty-first Amend-

JAMESON & CO. v. MORGENTHAU.
171

Opinion of the Court.

ment to the Federal Constitution gives to the States complete and exclusive control over commerce in intoxicating
liquors, unlimited by the commerce clause, and hence that
Congress has no longer authority to control the importation of these commodities into the United States. We see
no substance in this contention.
The other contentions of appellant assailed the Regulations and administrative action thereunder rather than
the Act of Congress. So far as the Federal Alcohol Administration Act itself is concerned, no substantial question of constitutional validity was raised.
Section 3 of the Act of Congress of August 24, 1937,
while providing for a procedure analogous to that under
§ 266 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. 380, creates a distinction which we think is controlling. Section 266 of the
Judicial Code provides for a court of three judges where
an injunction is sought to restrain the enforcement "of
any statute of a State" or "of an order made by an administrative board or commission acting under and pursuant to the statutes of such State," upon the ground of
unconstitutionality. The provision in relation to administrative orders was added by an amendment to the
original section. Act of March 4, 1913, 37 Stat. 1013.
While that addition has been said to be unnecessary, as
such orders were previously covered, Oklahoma Gas Co. v.
Russell, 261 U. S. 290, 292, Congress adopted the amendment out of abundant caution. But with these provisions
of § 266 before it, Congress in enacting § 3 of the Act of
August 24, 1937, did not refer to "any statute" or to administrative orders, but confined its requirement to cases
of attack upon an "Act of Congress" upon the ground
that "such Act or any part thereof is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States." This is not an apt
description of administrative regulations or orders. We
must regard the choice of language as deliberate and as
indicating a limitation deemed to be advisable. It does
not appear to have been the intention of Congress that

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

307 U. S.

direct appeal should lie to this Court when administrative
action and not the Act of Congress is assailed.
While we are of the opinion that the Court is without
jurisdiction to review the merits on this appeal, the Court
does have jurisdiction to make such corrective order as
may be appropriate to the enforcement of the limitations
which § 3 imposes, and in the circumstances disclosed the
appropriate action is to vacate the decree below and to
remand the cause to the District Court for further proceedings to be taken independently of § 3 of the Act of
August 24, 1937. See Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas
Co., 292 U. S. 16; Oklahoma Gas Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, 392.
Decree vacated.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 696. Argued March 30, 1939.-Decided May 15, 1939.
The National Firearms Act, as applied to one indicted for transporting in interstate commerce a 12-gauge shotgun with a barrel
less than 18 inches long, without having registered it and without
having in his possession a stamp-affixed written order for it, as
required by the Act, held:
1. Not unconstitutional as an invasion of the reserved powers
of the States. Citing Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S. 506,
and Narcotic Act cases. P. 177.
2. Not violative of the Second Amendment of the Federal
Constitution. P. 178.
The Court can not take judicial notice that a shotgun having
a barrel less than 18 inchds long has today any reasonable relation to the preservation or efficiency of a well regulated militia;
and therefore can not say that the Second Amendment guarantees
to the citizen the right to keep and bear such a weapon.
26 F. Supp. 1002, reversed.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment for violation of the National Firearms Act.

