ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.

125

Counsel for Parties.

ROCHESTER TELEPHONE CORP. v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 481.

Argued March 7, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. Factors involved in reviewability vel non of orders of administrative bodies such as the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Federal Communications Commission are analyzed and the governing principles stated. Pp. 129 et seq.
2. Any distinction between "negative" and "affirmative" orders, as
a touchstone of jurisdiction to review commission orders, serves no
useful purpose, and in so far as earlier decisions have been controlled by this distinction, they can no longer be guiding. P. 143.
3. An order of the Federal Communications Commission determining
the status of a telephone company as one subject to jurisdiction
under § 2 (b) of the Communications Act of 1934, because of its
control by another, and therefore bound by earlier general orders
requiring all telephone carriers so subject to file schedules of
charges, copies of contracts, and other information, held reviewable
on questions of law under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of Oct. 22,
1913, as extended to the Communications Act. P. 143.
4. A finding of the Federal Communications Commission that a
telephone company, engaged in interstate commerce solely through
physical connection with the facilities of another, was under the
other's control within the meaning of § 2 (b) of the Communications Act of 1934,-held justified by the facts before the Commission concerning the relations between the two companies. P. 144.
The existence of such "control" is an issue of fact to be determined by the Commission by the special circumstances of each
case and not by artificial tests.
23 F. Supp. 634, affirmed.

APPEAL from a District Court of three judges dismissing on the merits a bill to set aside an order of the
Federal Communications Commission.
Mr. T. Carl Nixon, with whom Messrs. E. Willoughby
Middleton and Justin J. Doyle were on the brief, for
appellant.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Mr. Hugh B. Cox, with whom Assistant Solicitor General Bell, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and
Messrs. Robert M. Cooper and William J. Dempsey, and
Elizabeth C. Smith were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is an appeal, under § 238 of the Judicial Code as
amended (28 U. S. C. § 345), from a final decree by a
district court of three judges, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913 (28 U. S. C. §§ 45, 47a)
as extended by § 402 (a) of the Federal Communications
Act (47 U. S. C. § 402 (a)), dismissing on the merits a
bill to review an order of the Federal Communications
Commission.
At the outset a challenge to the jurisdiction of the
District Court confronts us. It involves those problems
of administrative law which are implied by the doctrine
of "negative orders." Inasmuch as this phrase is shorthand for a variety of situations, sharp heed must be given
to the precise circumstances-inter alia, the statutory
provisions for review, the terms of the contested order,
the grounds of objection to it-which in this and other
cases have invoked the doctrine.
Section 2 (b) of the Communications Act of 1934 provides that, with certain exceptions not here material, the
Communications Commission shall not have jurisdiction
over any carrier "engaged in interstate or foreign communication solely through physical connection with the
facilities of another carrier not directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, such carrier." The appellant, Rochester Teleph~ne Corporation (hereafter called the Rochester), is a New York corporation maintaining a system
of telephone communications in and around the City of
Rochester. For present purposes the Rochester is to be

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

deemed as engaged in interstate communications solely
because of physical connections with the facilities of the
New York Telephone Company (hereafter called the New
York).
The present controversy grew out of a ruling by the
Federal Communications Commission that the Rochester
owed obedience to a series of orders issued by the Commission. These orders required all telephone carriers
subject to the Act to file schedules of their charges, copies
of contracts with other telephone carriers, information
concerning their corporate and service history, their relations with affiliates, their use of franks and passes. Copies
of these orders were duly served on the Rochester. No
response being had, the Telephone Division of the Communications Commission, on October 9, 1935, ordered the
Rochester to show cause why it should not be required to
file responses to the general orders theretofore served
upon it.' The Rochester answered, claiming to be outside
the requirements of the Act except as to matters not here
questioned.
To ascertain the facts in the contested issue, the Commission appointed a trial examiner. At hearings held
by him the Rochester entered a special appearance, denying the Commission's jurisdiction and contending that
the burden of proof was on the Commission to show that
Rochester did not come within the exclusionary provisions
of § 2 (b) (2). After a thorough hearing 2 and the submission of briefs, the examiner filed his report, to which
the Rochester duly excepted. Upon the basis of these
proceedings and of argument before it, the Commission,
through its Telephone Division, sustained the findings of
its chief examiner, determined that the Rochester was
'On November 13, 1935, the order was amended in matters not
here relevant.
'The hearing before the examiner lasted two days; 221 pages
of testimony were taken and 34 exhibits were introduced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

under the "control" of the New York and therefore not
entitled to the classification of a mere connecting carrier
under § 2 (b) (2). Accordingly, the Commission ordered
the Rochester classified "as subject to all common carrier
provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, and, therefore, subject to all orders of the Telephone Division." A
petition for rehearing before the full Commission was
denied.
The Rochester thereupon filed the present bill, alleging
that the order entered by the Commission on November
18, 1936, pursuant to its Report, was contrary to undisputed facts and erroneous as a matter of law, and that
the Commission's threat to enforce it put the Rochester
to the hazard of irreparable injury, and praying that the
District Court
"make and enter its order and decree setting aside and
annulling said orders of the Federal Communications
Commission hereinbefore mentioned, and each and all
of them, and enjoining the enforcement of said orders,
except in so far as the provisions of said orders . . . have

already been complied with."
The case was disposed of in the District Court on the
pleadings and the record before the Commission.
Below, the Government made no objection to the District Court's jurisdiction, nor did that Court raise the
question sua sponte' It sustained the Commission's action on the merits and dismissed the bill. Here, the Government urges that under the doctrine of "negative
orders" the Commission's order was not reviewable, but,
in the alternative, supports the decree on the merits.
The relation of action by the Federal Communications
Commission to the reviewing power of the courts is here
'Under United States v. Corrick, 298 U. S. 435, 440, and United
States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226, 229, the doctrine of "negative orders"
implies a jurisdictional defect which courts must consider sua sponte.

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

125

for the first time. The jurisdictional objection raised by
the Government in this case implicates other federal
regulatory bodies as well, because the various statutory
schemes for judicial review have either been carried over
from the Urgent Deficiencies Act, pertaining to orders
under the Acts to Regulate Commerce, or because different statutory provisions have by analogy been assimilated to the "negative order" doctrine. That doctrine
has not had wholly plain sailing in the many cases, both
here and in the lower federal courts, since it first got
under way in 1912, in Procter & Gamble Co. v. United
States, 225 U. S. 282.
The important procedural problems with which this
case is entangled therefore call for clarification.
The prior decisions involving the "negative order"
doctrine fall into three categories:
(1) Where the action sought to be reviewed may have
the effect of forbidding or compelling conduct on the
part of the person seeking to review it, but only if some
further action is taken by the Commission. Such a situation is presented by an attempt to review a valuation
made by the Interstate Commerce Commission which has
no immediate legal effect although it may be the basis
of a subsequent rate order.
(2) Where the action sought to be reviewed declines to
relieve the complainant from a statutory command forbidding or compelling conduct on his part. The most
obvious case is a denial of permission by the Interstate
Commerce Commission for a departure from the longshort haul clause.
'All except one of the prior decisions of this Court on the "negative order" doctrine involved review of action by the Interstate
Commerce Commission. United States v. Corrick, supra, note 3,
involved review of action by the Secretary of Agriculture under the
Packers and Stockyards Act.
161299°-39-

9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

(3) Where the action sought to be reviewed does not
forbid or compel conduct on the part of the person
seeking review but is attacked because it does not forbid
or compel conduct by a third person. A familiar ex-,
ample is that of a shipper requesting the Interstate Commerce Commission for an order compelling the carrier to
adopt certain rates or practices which the Commission,
on the merits, declines. Another instance is where the
Commission authorizes the carrier to depart from the
long-short haul clause and a shipper adversely affected
seeks to have the authorization set aside.
In group (1) the order sought to be reviewed does not
of itself adversely affect complainant but only affects
his rights adversely on the contingency of future administrative action. In view of traditional conceptions
of federal judicial power, resort to the courts in these
situations is either premature or wholly beyond their
province. Thus, orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission setting a case for hearing despite a challenge
to its jurisdiction,' or rendering a tentative 6 or final valuation 7 under the Valuation Act, although claimed to
be inaccurate, or holding that a carrier is within the Railway Labor Act and therefore amenable to the National
Mediation Board, are not reviewableY
The governing considerations which keep such orders
without the area of judicial review were thus summarized
for the Court by Mr. Justice Brandeis in denying reviewability of a "final valuation" under the Valuations Act:
"The so-called order here complained of is one which
does not command the carrier to do, or to refrain from
'United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 244 U. S. 82. Compare
Federal Power Comm'n v. Metropolitan Edison Co., 304 U. S.375.
'Delaware & Hudson Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 438.
United States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S. 299.
'Shannahan v. United States, 303 U. S. 596; compare Shields v.
Utah Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177, 182-184.

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

doing, anything; which does not grant or withhold any
authority, privilege or license; which does not extend or
abridge any power or facility; which does not subject
the carrier to any liability, civil or criminal; which does
not change the carrier's existing or future status or condition; which does not determine any right or obligation." United States v. Los Angeles & S. L. R. Co.,
273 U. S. 299, 309-310.
Plainly the denial of judicial review in these cases does
not derive from a regard for the special functions of administrative agencies. Judicial abstention here is merely
an application of the traditional criteria for bringing
judicial action into play. Partly these have been written
into Article III of the Constitution by what is implied
from the grant of "judicial power" to determine "Cases"
and "Controversies," Art. III, § 2, U. S. Constitution.'
Partly they are an aspect of the procedural philosophy
pertaining to the federal courts whereby, ever since the
first Judiciary Act, Congress has been loath to authorize
review of interim steps in a proceeding. 10
'Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409, is the symbol for considerations
which limit the constitutional power of the federal courts, though
that case itself never reached adjudication. See, also, United States
v. Ferreira,13 How. 40; Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346.
"°Prior to § 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891, authorizing an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a decree granting a preliminary injunction, review in a case not involving a final judgment
was unknown in the federal judicial system, except insofar as it was
present in the practice of certification introduced by § 6 of the
Act of April 29, 1802. See United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 267.
For state court decisions the requirements for finality of the original
Judiciary Act have been adhered to. § 237, Judicial Code as
amended, 28 U. S. C. § 344. Review of action of the federal district courts not involving final judgments can be had only in a
limited class of cases dealing with interlocutory injunctions, receiverships, and criminal appeals. §!§ 129 and 238 of the Judicial Code
as amended, 28 U. S. C. §§ 227, 345. This Court, however, may take
jurisdiction on certiorari before the appellate jurisdiction of the
circuit court of appeals is exhausted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Group (2) is composed of instances of statutory regulations which place restrictions upon the free conduct of
the complainant. To rid himself of these restrictions the
complainant either asks the Interstate Commerce Commission to place him outside the statute, or, being concededly within it, he invokes the Commission's dispensing power. In this type of situation a complainant
seeking judicial review under the Urgent Deficiencies Act
of adverse action by the Commission must clear three
hurdles: (a) "case" or "controversy" under Article III;
(b) the conventional requisites of equity jurisdiction;
(c) the specific terms of the statute granting to the district courts jurisdiction in suits challenging "any order"
of the Commission.
Where a complainant seeks the Commission's authority
under the terms of a statute and the Commission's action
is followed by legal consequences, as was the case in Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 412, or
where the Commission's order denies an exemption from
the terms of the statute, as in the Intermountain Rate
Cases, 234 U. S. 476, the road to the courts' jurisdiction
seems to be clear. There is a constitutional "case" or
"controversy," Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447; the requirements of equity are satisfied
if disregard of the Commission's adverse action entails
threat of oppressive penalties; and the suit is within the
express language of the Urgent Deficiencies Act in that it
is one "to enjoin, set aside, or annul" an "order of the
Commission." 28 U. S. C. §§ 46, 47.11 While the penalLehigh Valley case apparently originated the statement,
often made in "negative order" cases, that the risk results from the
statute, not from the order. But this formula hardly squares with
the actualities of the situation in that case. The Panama Canal Act,
paragraphs 19-21 of § 5 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as
amended, forbade community of interest between any common carrier subject to the Act and a competing water carrier. Under
11The

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

ties may be imposed by the statute for its violation and
not for disobedience of the Commission's order, a favorable order would render the prohibitions of the statute
inoperative. The complainant can come into court, of
course, not to review action within the discretionary auparagraph 20, jurisdiction was conferred on the Commission to
determine questions of fact as to the existence of actual or potential
competitive conditions, either on the application of the carrier or on
the Commission's motion, its determination to be filed. Under
paragraph 21, the Commission was given jurisdiction to extend the
time within which operations otherwise prohibited by the statute
might be carried on after July 1, 1914, if such extension did not
reduce competition and benefited the public. After receipt of notice
of the Act from the Commission, the Lehigh applied to the Commission for a ruling that it was not subject to the Act, or, in the
alternative, for an extension. The Commission issued an order subjecting the Lehigh to the Act and denying an extension. Thereupon
the Lehigh brought a suit to set aside this order and to enjoin the
Commission from enforcing it.
As a practical matter the risk of prosecution to which the Lehigh
was subjected if it wished to continue to operate its boats was the
result of the order. Since the Panama Canal Act provided that the
Commission should find the facts under it, there could have been no
prosecution without a previous finding by the Commission that the
Lehigh was within the Act; once such a finding was made it was
subject to the rule of administrative finality. Compare Keogh v.
Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 156. Therefore the Commission's order that the Lehigh was subject to the Panama Canal Act
was responsible for the risk, as much so as if it had expressly commanded the Lehigh to stop running its boat lines. And assuming
the Lehigh was within the prohibition of the statute, the Commission's order denying an exception had the same practical effect as a
direct command. Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476.
Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 280 U. S. 469,
presents a more complicated situation. Section 1 (18-22) of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, prohibits any common
carrier by rail subject to the Act from extending its lines or constructing new lines without a certificate of convenience and necessity.
This requirement did not apply to "interurban electric railways,
which are not operated as a part or parts of a general steam rail-

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

thority of the Commission to render an adverse rather
than a favorable decision but because he urges errors of
law outside the Commission's final say-so. Such an
analysis emerges from a long sequence of cases under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act viewed in the setting of general
doctrines of federal jurisdiction. On the other hand, the
result in the Lehigh Valley case was reached in the earlier
phases of modern administrative law and did not deal
with its specific jurisdictional problems in the perspective
of underlying principles governing federal equitable jurisdiction. In consequence, the phrase "negative orders"
gained currency as though it were descriptive of some
technical doctrine of jurisdiction having peculiar relevance to judicial review of orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission and comparable regulatory bodies.12
road system of transportation." Upon an application for a certificate by the Piedmont & Northern, coupled with a motion to dismiss
on the ground that it was an "interurban electric" railway, for
which no certificate was required, the Commission denied the motion
to dismiss and denied the certificate on the merits. The bill to enjoin the Commission from taking any proceedings against the
Piedmont & Northern under this order attacked the action of the
Commission solely on its assumption of jurisdiction. The Court held
the order was not reviewable, on the ground that the order did not
adjudicate the railroad's status, did not command it to do anything,
but only had the effect of increasing the Piedmont's doubts as to the
correctness of its construction of the statute. To be sure, statutory
construction is a judicial function. But this is to view the matter
too abstractly. For the Commission itself had instituted the system
whereby it requested preliminary submission to it of the status of
"interurban" roads. Such a decision was at least the equivalent of a
threat of. prosecution under the statute, and, in fact, considerable
weight is given to administrative practice in ascertaining the meaning of such legislation. Compare United States v. Village of Hubbard,
266 U. S.474.
12The initial decision in this group of cases, the Intermountain
Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, held reviewable the action of the
Commission in refusing to grant requested consent to depart from
the long-short haul clause. (§ 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

This brings us to the cases in group (3). Here review
is sought of action by the Commission which affects the
complainant because it does not forbid or compel conduct
with reference to him by a third person. This type of
situation is illustrated by Procter& Gamble Co. v. United
States, 225 U. S. 282. Since this case gave rise to the
notion that there is a specialized jurisdictional doctrine
pertaining to "negative orders," it calls for re-examination. Procter & Gamble Co. filed a complaint with the
Interstate Commerce Commission to set aside demurrage
rules that imposed charges on private cars left unloaded
for over forty-eight hours on private tracks. The Commission dismissed the complaint on the ground that the
rules were within the carriers' authority to make conditions for the acceptance of private cars. Procter &
Gamble then petitioned the Commerce Court to annul
the Commission's action and to enjoin the carriers from
enforcing the rules. The Commerce Court took jurisdiction but found the Commission's action to be within its
authority. On appeal this Court held that the Comas amended.) While this case would seem to control the Lehigh
Valley case and at least to be persuasive in the Piedmont & Northern
case, it was not mentioned in them. After these two cases, subsequent decisions in this group indicated that the "negative order"
doctrine might prevent review of the refusal by the Secretary of
Agriculture to accept rates for filing, the Packers and Stockyards
Act prohibiting the charging of rates except those on file with the
Secretary, United States v. Corrick, 298 U. S. 435, and of the refusal
to grant an increase in rates of compensation for carrying of mail,
the Railway Mail Pay Act of 1916 requiring the carrier to carry
the mail at the rate set, United States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226. But
in both these decisions the result reached was supported by factors
irrelevant to the present discussion. On the other hand, in Powell
v. United States, 300 U. S. 276, action of the Commission, striking
from its files a tariff on the ground that a point was not served
by the carrier, was held subject to review as a command to the railway which had filed the tariff not to give the service covered by the
tariff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

merce Court erred in taking jurisdiction and remanded
the cause for dismissal.
Clearly Procter & Gamble was authorized under § 13
of the Act to Regulate Commerce to institute the proceedings before the Commission. Since it asserted a legal right
under that Act to have the Commission apply different
principles of law from those which led the Commission
to dismiss the complaint, the ingredients for an adjudication-constituting a case or controversy-were present.
Compare Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson,
supra; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird, 194 U. S.

25, 38. Judicial relief would be precisely the same as in
the recognized instances of review by courts of Commission action: if the legal principles on which the Commission acted were not erroneous, the bill would be ordered
dismissed; if the Commission was found to have proceeded
on erroneous legal principles, the Commission would be
ordered to proceed within the framework of its own discretionary authority on the indicated correct principles.
The requisites of equity have of course to be satisfied, but
by the conventional criteria. They were satisfied in the
Procter & Gamble case, since the bill sought to avoid a
multiplicity of suits. Finally, the shipper was within the

express language of Congress authorizing suits "to enjoin,
set aside, annul, . . . -any order of the Interstate Com-

merce Commission." To be sure, the opinion in the
Procter & Gamble case partly yielded to the Government's main contention in that case that the jurisdictional
statute only applied where the order complained of was
one which was to be enforced by the Commission. More
recent decisions of this Court, however, have dispensed
with this requisite for review. "
" The Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258; Venner v. Michigan
Central R. Co., 271 U. S. 127; Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S.
153; Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry Co. v. United States, 285 U. S. 382;
United States v. Idaho, 298 U. S. 105.

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

The impelling consideration underlying the decision in
the Procter & Gamble case did not concern technical procedure. It was part of the process of adjusting relations

between the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
courts to effectuate the purposes of the Commission.
This is made abundantly clear by the general atmosphere
of the opinion as well as by its language, 14 particularly
when regard is had to the fact that the Court's spokesman was Chief Justice White, who had such a large share
in developing modern administrative law. 5 While the
.. . we have learned of no instance where it was held or even
seriously asserted, that as to subjects which in their nature were
administrative and within the competency of the Commission to decide, there was power in a court, by an exercise of original action,
to enforce its conceptions as to the meaning of the act to regulate
commerce by dealing directly with the subject irrespective of any
prior affirmative command or action by the Interstate Commerce
Commission. On the contrary, by a long line of decisions, whereby
applications to enforce orders of the Commission were considered and
disposed of or where requests to restrain the enforcement of such
orders were passed upon, it appears by the reasoning indulged in
that it was never considered that there was power in the courts
as an original question without previous affirmative action by the
Commission to deal with what might be temed in a broad sense the
administrative features of the act to regulate commerce by determining as an original question that there had been a compliance or
noncompliance with the provisions of the act." 225 U. S. at 296-97.
the recognition of a right in a court to assert the power now
claimed would of necessity amount to a substitution of the court
for the Commission or at all events would be to create a divided
authority on a matter where from the beginning primary singleness
of action and unity was deemed to be imperative." 225 U. S. at
298-99.
1 See Chief Justice Taft's estimate of the services of Chief Justice
White in "a new field of administrative law": "The capital importance
which our railroad system has come to have in the welfare of this
country made the judicial construction of the interstate commerce
act of critical moment. It is not too much to say that Chief Justice
White in construing the measure and its great amendments has
had more to do with placing this vital part of our practical govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Interstate Commerce Commission had been in existence
since 1887, the enlargement of its powers through the
Hepburn Act, in 1906,16 and the Mann-Elkins Act, in
1910," the establishment of similar agencies in many
states following the lead of New York " and Wisconsin, 19
the widespread recognition that these specific instances
marked a general movement," made increasingly manifest the place of administrative agencies in enforcing legislative policies and called for accommodation of the duties
entrusted to them to our traditional judicial system.
This Court "ascribed" to the findings of the Commission
"the strength due to the judgments of a tribunal appointed by law and informed by experience." Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 206 U. S.
441, 454. Recognition of the Commission's expertise also
led this Court not to bind the Commission to common
ment on a useful basis than any other judge. His opinions in the
case of the Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. The Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
and the cases which followed it, are models of clear and satisfactory
reasoning which gave to the people, to state legislatures, to Congress,
and the courts a much-needed knowledge of the practical functions
the Commerce Commission was to discharge, and of how they were
to be reconciled to existirig governmental machinery, for the vindication of the rights of the public in respect of national transportation. They are a conspicuous instance of his unusual and remarkable
power and facility in statesmanlike interpretation of statute law."
Proceedings on the Death of Chief Justice White, 257 U. S. v, xxv.
"034 Stat. 584.

,36 Stat. 539.
" Laws of New York, One Hundred and Thirtieth Session, c. 429
(1907).
9
" Wisconsin Laws of 1907, c. 499, st. 1797 m.
20 See, e. g., Hughes, Some Aspects of the Development of American
Law (1916) 39 N. Y. B. A. Rep. 266, 269-70; Root, Public Service
by the Bar (1916) 41 A. B. A. Rep. 355, 368-69; Sutherland, Private
Rights and Government Control (1917) 42 A. B. A. 197.
0

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of the Court.

law evidentiary and procedural fetters in enforcing basic
procedural safeguards.2
From these general considerations the Court evolved
two specific doctrines limiting judicial review of orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. One is the
primary jurisdiction doctrine, firmly established in Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.
426. Thereby matters which call for technical knowledge
pertaining to transportation must first be passed upon by
the Interstate Commerce Commission before a court can
be invoked.2 The other is the doctrine of administrative
finality. Even when resort to courts can be had to review
a Commission's order, the range of issues open to review
21

Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44; Inter-

state Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S.
88, 93; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274,
288; compare Douglas v. Noble, 261 U. S. 165, 169. "It is, perhaps,
not too much to say that not a single case arising before the Commission could be properly decided if the complainant, the railroad,
or the Commission were bound by the rules of evidence applying to
the introduction of testimony in courts." Twenty-second Annual
Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 10.
See, also, e. g., Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States ex
rel. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Robinson v. Baltimore & Ohio
.R. Co., 222 U. S. 506; United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co., 228
U. S. 87; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie Co., 234 U. S.
138; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477; Director
General v. Viscose Co., 254 U. S. 498; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v.
United States, 263 U. S. 456; Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Georgia
Public Service Comm'n, 267 U. S. 493; Midland Valley R. Co. v.
Barkley, 276 U. S. 482; Board of Railroad Comm'rs v. Great Northern
Ry. Co., 281 U. S. 412. The doctrine has been given general application, e. g., United States Navigation Co. v. Cunard Steamship Co.,
284 U. S. 474 (Shipping Board); Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding
Corp., 303 U. S. 41 (National Labor Relations Board). Compare,
also, Prentisv. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210; Anniston Mfg.
Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 337.

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

is narrow. Only questions affecting constitutional power,
statutory authority and the basic prerequisites of proof
can be raised. If these legal tests are satisfied, the Commission's order becomes incontestable. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Illinois Central R. Co., 215 U. S. 452,
470; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Union Pacific R.
Co., 222 U. S. 541.
In translating these important objectives for effectuating the Congressional scheme to enlarge the independent
powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission into a
seemingly technical distinction between "negative" and
"affirmative" orders, the opinion in Procter & Gamble v.

United States gave authority to a doctrine which harmonizes neither with the considerations which induced it
nor with the course of decisions which have purported to
follow it." Subsequent cases have made it abundantly
clear that "negative order" and "affirmative order" are not
appropriate terms of art." Thus, the Court has had occa"3In Manufacturers Railway Co. v. United States, 246 U. S.
457, the Court treated as reviewable the action of the Commission
in failing to require an absorption of switching charges or a requested
joint rate but held not reviewable refusal to fix divisions. In part
this may have been on the theory that the issue of the divisions was
not properly before the Commission. See 246 U. S. at 482-483. In
United States v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533, the Court held reviewable the action of the full Commission dismissing a complaint
by a shipper against certain car practices held invalid by one division
of the Commission. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 235,
held not reviewable the action of the Commission refusing to grant
reparations, but the main basis of the decision was not the "negative order" doctrine but the statutory scheme dealing with reparations. In Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287 U. S. 229, the Court
held reviewable the action of the Commission refusing to interfere
with divisions set by a railroad in violation of a previous agreement,
the Court stating that the action of the Commission validated
divisions which were previously invalid. See 287 U. S. at 236-237.
24The only test which can be derived from the cases in notes 11-13,
23, supra, is that an order is "affirmative" if it has the legal effect

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

141

Opinion of the Court.

sion to find that while an order was "negative in form"
it was "affirmative in substance." I "Negative" has really
been an obfuscating adjective in that it implied a search
for a distinction-non-action as against action-which
does not involve the real considerations on which rest, as
we have seen, the reviewability of Commission orders
within the framework of its discretionary authority and
within the general criteria of justiciability.26 "Negative"
of changing the status quo, permitting what was previously not allowed or compelling what was previously not required. But on
this test the order in the Lehigh Valley case was "affirmative." The
decision in the New River Coal Co. case could hardly be hung on
such a gossamer thread as this test, since there the only change in
the status quo resulting from an order considered "affirmative" was
that the order of the full Commission held unobjectionable a car
practice which was the subject of complaint. A division of the Commission in the same proceeding had stated that the practice was
invalid and should be abandoned and it was abandoned. After the
full Commission found the practice not invalid and dismissed the
complaint, the practice was adopted again.
See Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287 U. S. 229, 235.
This becomes clear on analysis of the precise problem presented
in the Procter & Gamble case. It was a dispute between shippers
who owned private cars and those who did not as to the distribution
of the cars owned by the carriers. The Commission was called
upon to resolve that economic conflict by virtue of its authority
to prevent practices which unfairly discriminated against one group
at the expense of the other. Its final decision was based on a
comprehensive policy concerning the place of private cars in our
transportation system. Had the prior practice of the carriers been
inconsistent with this policy, and the order of the Commission compelled a change, the private car shippers would admittedly have
been entitled to test the validity of the Commission ruling in the
courts, subject, of course, to the canons of administrative finality.
It seems capricious that the fact that the Commission's order authorizing the preservation of the status quo should block any review at all.
The force of this reasoning is emphasized when it is realized what
small factors may determine whether the status quo hag been
changed, e. g., a difference of views within the Commission, as in the
New River Coal Co. case, supra, note 24. See the opinion of the

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
307 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and "affirmative," in the context of these problems, is as
unilluminating and mischief-making a distinction as the
outmoded line between "nonfeasance" and "misfeasance."
The considerations of policy for which the notions of
"negative" and "affirmative" orders were introduced, are
completely satisfied by proper application of the combined doctrines of primary jurisdiction and administrative finality. The concept of "negative orders" has not
served to clarify the relations between administrative
bodies and the courts but has rather tended to obscure
them. An action before the Interstate Commerce Commission is akin to an inclusive equity suit in which all
relevant claims are adjusted.2 8 An order of the Commission dismissing a complaint on the merits and maintaining the status quo is an exercise of administrative function, no more and no less, than an order directing some
change in status. The nature of the issues foreclosed by
the Commission's action and the nature of the issues left
open, so far as the reviewing power of courts is concerned,
are the same. Refusal to change an existing situation
may, of course, itself be a factor in the Commission's allowable exercise of discretion. In the application of relevant
canons of judicial review an order of the Commission directing the adoption of a practice might raise considerations absent from a situation where the Commission
merely allowed such a practice to continue. But this
bears on the disposition of a case and should not control
jurisdiction. The nature of judicial relief, that is the
Commerce Court sustaining reviewability in Procter & Gamble Co. v.
United States, 188 F. 221.
' The Restatement of Torts does not employ this nomenclature.

See, also, 7,

LABATT, MASTER AND SERVANT, §

2586.

' 8 Compare Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 157:
" . . the Commission was acting in the interest of shippers gen-

erally and in behalf of the public and the national railroad system."

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

125

form of directions available, in situations like those presented by the Procter & Gamble and the Lehigh Valley
cases, were the Commission's orders reviewed, would be
no different than was that used in the Intermowntain
Rate and the New River Coal Co. cases. 9 In both types
of situations "a judgment rendered will be a final and indisputable basis of action as between the Commission
and the defendant," Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 38. We conclude, therefore, that any
distinction, as such, between "negative" and "affirmative" orders, as a touchstone of jurisdiction to review the
Commission's orders, serves no-useful purpose, and insofar as earlier decisions have been controlled by this distinction, they can no longer be guiding.
The order of the Communications Commission in this
case was therefore reviewable. It was not a mere abstract
declaration regarding the status of the Rochester under
the Communications Act,8" nor was it a stage in an incomplete process of administrative adjudication. The
'In

the Procter & Gamble case the judicial relief asked was that

the order of the Commission dismissing the complaint against the

demurrage rules be annulled and that the carriers be enjoined from
applying those rules. In the New River Coal Co. case the judicial
relief asked was that the car rule under attack be adjudged invalid,
that the order of the Commission dismissing the complaint against
it be adjudged invalid, that the carriers be enjoined from complying
with the rule and that the Commission be enjoined from restricting
the commerce of the complainants by its order and by the rule.
In the Lehigh Valley case the judicial relief asked was that the enforcement of the order of the Commission and the institution of any
proceedings thereunder against the complainant be enjoined. In the
Intermountain Rate cases the judicial. relief asked was that the
order of the Commission be set aside, that § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce be declared invalid, and that the Commission and the
Attorney General be enjoined from taking any proceedings to
prosecute the carriers for violation of § 4.
30 Compare United States v. Atlanta, B. & C. R. Co., 282 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

contested order determining the status of the Rochester
necessarily and immediately carried direction of obedience to previously formulated mandatory orders addressed generally to all carriers amenable to the Commission's authority. Into this class of carriers the order
under dispute covered the Rochester, and by that fact,
in conjunction with the other orders, made determination
of the status of the Rochester a reviewable order of the
Commission.
But while the Rochester had a right to challenge the
order, it cannot prevail on the merits.
The ultimate legal issue is the validity of the Commission's finding that the Rochester "is under the control of the New York Telephone Company." The justification for this finding clearly emerges from a rapid summary of the governing facts adduced before the Commission concerning the relationship between the New
York and the Rochester.
Prior to 1920 an independent telephone company and
the New York (which was part of the Bell system) were
competitors in Rochester. As part of an endeavor to meet
an arrangement which the Bell system had, in 1913, made
with the Department of Justice, the details of which need
not here be recited, the Rochester was formed to consolidate the two previously competing enterprises. The
property of the independent was paid for by bonds of the
Rochester, and the property of the New York by preferred
stock, later designated as second preferred, of which the
New York had the entire issue, 48,140 shares at $100 par.
The Rochester issued 1000 shares of common stock, at
$100 par, of which the New York purchased 335 shares.
The New York also paid the officers of the independent
company $70,000 for their services in consummating the
consolidation, but $66,500 of this amount was to be used
in purchasing the remaining 665 shares of common stock

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

125

for deposit in a voting trust. Other outstanding securities of the Rochester, first preferred stock and bonds,
neither of which had any voting rights, were held by the
public. There were complicated limitations upon the
voting rights of the second preferred stockholders, but
the dominating circumstances touching voting rights
were that in major matters no vote of stockholders could
be effective unless concurred in by eighty per cent of the
common stock and that the Executive Committee and
the Board of Directors were elected by cumulative voting
of the common stock, thereby assuring New York five out
of fifteen members of the Board of Directors and two
members in an Executive Committee of five.
Putting all these factors in the context of the circumstances under which the Rochester came into being, the
manner in which it was financed, the operation of the
voting trust, and the stake of the New York in the
Rochester, the Commission, after full hearing and due
consideration, concluded that
"the New York Company, through stock ownership, is
the dominant financial factor in the respondent company
and also, that this, taken together with their contractual
arrangements and other pertinent facts and circumstances
appearing in the record, unquestionably gives the New
York Company power to control the functions of the
Rochester Telephone Corporation."
The record amply justified the Communications Commission in making such findings. Investing the Commission with the duty of ascertaining "control" of one
company by another, Congress did not imply artificial
tests of control. 1 This is an issue of fact to be determined by the special circumstances of each case. So long
See House Report 1850, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 4-5; compare 78
Cong. Rec. 8446.
31

161299 o-39-1i0

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of BUTLER, J.

307 U. S.

as there is warrant in the record for the judgment of
the expert body it must stand. The suggestion that the
refusal to regard the New York ownership of only one
third of the common stock of the Rochester as conclusive of the former's lack of control of the latter should
invalidate the Commission's finding, disregards actualities
in such intercorporate relations. Having found that the
record permitted the Commission to draw the conclusion that it did, a court travels beyond its province to
express concurrence therewith as an original question.
"The judicial function is exhausted when there is found
to be a rational basis for the conclusions approved by
the administrative body." Mississippi Valley Barge Line
Co. v. United States, 292 U. S. 282, 286-287; Swayne &
Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States, 300 U. S. 297, 303, et seq.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER.

Appellant's complaint shows that prior to making its
final order November 18, 1936, the commission made general orders 1, 2, 3, 5, 6a and 9, directing that every telephone carrier subject to the Act file statements concerning its business and affairs. Declining to recognize the
Act as applying to it, appellant withheld compliance.
The commission ordered it to obey or to file answer setting
forth the facts on which it relied as justification for failure
so to do. Appellant then applied to the commission for determination that it is not subject to the Act or the commission's jurisdiction because exempted under § 2 (b) (2).
After hearing, the commission made the final order declaring appellant subject to all common carrier provisions
of the Act "and, therefore, subject to all orders of the
Telephone Division applicable to wire telephone car-

ROCHESTER TEL. CORP. v. U. S.
125

Opinion of

BUTLER,

J.

riers..." Thus plainly it made the general orders above
mentioned applicable to appellant.
The complaint challenged the validity of these orders
on the ground inter alia that appellant as a matter of law
is, and by the evidence and facts found by the commission is shown to be, not subject to any of them. The
prayer is for decree "setting aside and annulling said orders . . .and each and all of them and enjoining the
enforcement of" them. In the district court, appellees
raised no question as to its jurisdiction. But here they
argue: The commission's determination classifying the
appellant as subject to its jurisdiction and to the general orders is not an order reviewable under the terms of
the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913; the determination
neither commands nor directs appellant to do or refrain
from doing anything; the commission could not have instituted a proceeding to enforce it and consequently the
court has no jurisdiction to set it aside.
The final order is much more than a mere determination that appellant is subject to the Act. When read,
as it must be, in connection with the general orders, it
unmistakably puts appellant under a series of affirmative mandates which, if valid, may be enforced under the
Act. See 47 U. S. C. §§ 401, 409, 501, 502; 28 U. S. C.
§ 47, made applicable by 47 U. S. C. § 402a. These
unequivocally impose upon appellant burden and expense
of preparing and reporting to the commission a vast
amount of statistical and other information.
The case presents no debatable question as to the jurisdiction of the district court. A statement of the facts
alleged conclusively shows that in purpose, terms and
effect the final order constitutes not mere determination
or declaration but affirmative commands. There is no
occasion to review earlier decisions dealing with affirmative and negative administrative orders and obviously

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

none to overrule any of them or to repudiate or impair
the doctrine they establish.* The Court's discussion, extraneous to the issue involved, confuses rather than
clarifies.
The findings of the district court are amply sustained
by the evidence, and its decree should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in this opinion.

UNITED STATES ET AL. V. MAHER, DOING BUSINESSAS INTERSTATE BUSSES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 432.

Argued February 6, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. The Interstate Commerce Commission denied an application of a
common carrier by motor vehicle for a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing him to operate over a designated
route, and ordered him to cease operating, holding inapplicable to
his case a provision of § 206 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act,
upon which he relied, whereby carriers in bona fide operation on
* See e. g.: Procter & Gamble v. United States, (1912) 225 U. S.
282, 292 et seq. Hooker v. Knapp, 225 U. S. 302. United States v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 225 U. S. 306, 320. Lehigh Valley R. Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 412. United States v. Illinois Central R.
Co., 244 U. S. 82, 89. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263264. United States v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533, 539-541.
Delaware & Hudson Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 438, 448. Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v. Peoria Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 580. Colorado
v. United States, 271 U. S. 153, 161. United States v. Los Angeles
& S. L. R. Co., 273 U. S. 299, 309. Gt. Northern Ry. Co. v. United
States, 277 U. S. 172. Piedmont & N. Ry. Co. v. United States,
280 U. S. 469, 475-477. United States v. Atlanta, B. & C. R. Co.,
282 U. S. 522. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 235.
Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287 U. S. 229. United States v. B.
& 0. R. Co., 293 U. S. 454. Powell v. United States, 300 U. S.
276, 284. United States v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 226, 232 et seq.
Shannahan v. United States, 303 U. S. 596, 599.

