MITCHELL v. McCLURE.
Syllabus.

"1st. The provisions of the second clause of section 23 of
the Bankrupt Act of 1898 control and limit the jurisdiction of

4ll courts, including the several District Courts of the United
States, over suits brought by trustees in bankruptcy to recover
or collect debts due from third parties, or to set aside transfers
of property to third parties, alleged to be fraudulent as against
creditors, including payments in money or property to preferred
creditors.
"2d. The District Court of the United States can, by the
proposed defendants' consent, but not otherwise, entertain jurisdiction over suits brought by trustees in bankruptcy to set
aside fraudulent transfers of money or property, made by the
bankrupt to third parties before the institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy.
"3d. The District Court for the Northern District of Iowa
cannot take jurisdiction over this suit as it now stands on the
record."
The result is that the decree of the District Court, dismissing
the bill for want of jurisdiction, must be
Afirmed.

MITCHELL v. MoCLUR-E_
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 237. Submitted April 12,1900.-Decided May 28,1900.

A District Court of the United States has no jurisdiction, without the proposed defendant's consent, to entertain an action of replevin by a trustee
in bankruptcy to recover goods conveyed to the defendant by the bankrupt in fraud of the Bankrupt Act and of his creditors,
Bardes v. HawardenBank, ante, 524, followed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERMM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

.M'. TItomas Patterson and Xr. S. D jjeld. litchell for plaintiff in error.
.MAr. John S. Ferguson for defendants in error.
MR.

'JUSTrCE

GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of replevin in the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania by a
trustee in bankruptcy, appointed by that court, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, to recover a stock of goods, of the value of $2500,
in the possession of the defendants, citizens of Pennsylvania
and residents of that district, and alleged to have been conveyed to them by the bankrupt, within four months before the
institution of proceedings in bankruptcy, in fraud of the Bankrupt Act of 1898, and of the creditors of the bankrupt. The
District Court, on motion of the defendant, held that it had no
jurisdiction to entertain such an action, and therefore ordered
it to be abated. 91 Fed. Rep. 621. The plaintiff sued out a
writ of error from this court, and the District Judge certified
that the question of jurisdiction was the sole question in issue.
For the reasons stated in Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, ante,
524, just decided,
Tlie.judgnent is affirmed.

