OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

SMITH v. REEVES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 242. Argued April 16, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.
Within the meaning of the constitutional provisions relating to actions instituted by private persons against a State, this suit, though in form
against an officer of the State of California, is in fact against the State
itself.
By § 3669 of the Political Code of California, which provides that any person dissatisfied with the assessment made upon him by the State Board
of Equalization, may, after payment and on the conditions named in the
act, bring an action against the State Treasurer for the recovery of the
amoint of taxes'and percentage so paid to the Treasurer, or any part
thereof, the State has not consented to be sued except in its own courts.
It was competent for the State to couple with its consent to be sued on
account of taxes alleged to have been exacted under illegal assessments
made by the state board, the condition that the suit be brought in one
of its own courts.
A suit brought against a State by one of its citizens is excluded from the
judicial power of the United States, even when it is one arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the same rule applies
to suits of a like character brought by Federal corporations against a
State without its consent.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
XrM.C. -. Sterry for plaintiff in error.
.AL?. T rey L. Ford and .r. William -M. Abbott for defendant in error. 3Th. George A. Sturtevant was on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Tnis action was brought in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of California by the Receivers
of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation
created under an act of Congress approved July 27, 1866,

SMITH v. REEVES.
Opiniom of the Court.

with authority to construct and maintain a railroad and telegraph line beginning at or near Springfield, Missouri, thence
by a specified route to the Pacific Ocean.

14 Stat. 292,.o. 278.

The original defendant was J. R. McDonald, as Treasurer of
the State of California. He was succeeded in office by Levi
Rackliffe, W. S. Green and Truman Reeves. in the order named,
The relief sought was a judgment against the defendant "as.
T'reasurerof the State of California," for the sum of $2272.80"
with interest thereon from the date of the payment of that
sum or any portion thereof to the State Treasurer, together
with the costs of the action.
Before brihging suit the Receivers of the Railroad Company
gave written notice to the Comptroller of the State thht they
intended to bring an action against the State Treasurer -to recover from him the amount of the "taxes paid by the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company, and by the Receiver for it, to
the State Treasurer as and for taxes assessed against the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company in the State of California
for the year 1893, by the State Board of Equalization."
The action was brought under section 3669 of the Political
Code of California, which is as follows:
"Each corporation, person or association assessed by the
State Board of Equalization must pay to the State Treasurer,
upon the order of the Comptroller, as other moneys are required
to be paid into the Treasury, the state and county and city and
county taxes each year levied upon the property so assessed to
it or him by said board. Any corporation, person or association dissatisfied with the assessment made by the board, upon
the payment of the taxes due upon the assessment complained
of, and the percentage added, if to be added, on or before the
first Monday in June, and the filing of notice with the Comth
troller of an intention to begin an action, may, not later than
the first Monday in June, bring an action against the State
Treasurer for the recovery of the amount of taxes and percent-age so paid to the Treasurer, or any part thereof, and in the
complaint may allege any fact tending to show the illegality
of the tax, or of the assessment upon which the taxes are levied,
in whole or in part. A copy of the complaint and of the sum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

mons must be served upon the Treasurer within ten days after
the complaint has been filed, and the Treasurer has thirty days
within which to demur or answer. At the time the Treasurer
demurs or answers, he may demand that the action be tried in
the Superior Court of the county of Sacramento. The Attorney
General must defend the action. The provisions of the Code
of Civil Procedure relating to pleadings, proofs, trials and appeals are applicable to the proceedings herein provided for. If
the final judgment be against the Treasurer, upon presentation
of a certified copy of such judgment to the Comptroller, he shall
draw his warrant upon the State Treasurer, who must pay to
the plaintiff the amount of taxes so declared to have been fiegally collected; and the cost of such action, audited by the
Board of Examiners, must be paid out of any money in the
general fund of the treasury, which is hereby appropriated, and
the Comptroller may demand and.-receive from the county, or
city and county interested, the proportion of such costs, or may
deduct such proportion from any money then or to become due
to said county, or city and county. Such action must be begun
on or before the first Monday in June of the year succeeding
the year in which the taxes were levied, and a failure to begin
such action is deemed a waiver of the right of action."
The State Treasurer, represented by the Attorney General
of the 'State, demurred to the complaint upon various grounds
affecting the merits of the case, and also moved to dismiss the
case upon the ground that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction
of the defendant or of the action.
The demurrer was sustained with leave to amend and the
motion to dismiss was denied. Rein art v. loDonald, [Teas'r,
76 Fed. Rep. 403.
An amended complaint was filed but a demurrer to it was
sustained, with leave to amend. No further amendment having been filed, the action was dismissed by the Circuit Court.
Smith.v. Rackliffe, 83 Fed. Rep. 983. That judgment was atfirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. 59 U. S. App. 428.
Is this suit to be regarded as one against the State of California? The adjudged cases permit only one answer to this
question. Although the State, as such, is not made a party de-

SMYITH v. REEVES.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant, the suit is against one of its officers as Treasurer; the
relief sought is a judgment against that officer in his official
capacity; and that judgment would compel him to pay out of
the public funds in the treasury of the State a certain sum of
money. Such a judgment would have the same effect as if it
were rendered directly against the State for the amount specified in the complaint. This case is unlike those in which we
have held that a suit would lie by one person against another
person to recover possession of specific property, although the
latter claimed that he was in possession as an officer of the State
and not otherwise. In such a-case, the settled doctrine of this
court is that the question of possession. does not cease to be a
judicial question-as between the parties actually before the
court-because the defendant asserts or suggests that the right
of possession is in the State of which he is an officer or agent.
Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204, 221, and authorities there
cited. In the present case the action is not to recover specific
moneys in the hands of the State Treasurer nor to compel him
to perform a plain ministerial duty. It is to enforce the liability of 'the State to pay a certain amount of money on account
of the payment &f taxes alleged to have been wrongfully exacted by the State from the plaintiffs. Nor is it a suit to enjoin the defendant from doing some positive or affirmative act to
the injury of the plaintiffs in their persons or property, but one
in effect to compel the State, through its officer, to perform its
promise to return to taxpayers such amount as may be adjudged to have been taken from them under an illegal assessment.
The case, in some material aspects, is like that of -Louisianav.
Aumel, 107 U. S. 711, 726-728. That was a proceeding by
mandamus against officers of Louisiana to compel them to use
the public moneys in the state treasury for the retirement of
certain bonds issued by the State'but which it subsequently refused to recognize as valid obligations and directed its officers
not to pay. This court said: "-It may be, without doubt, easily
ascertained from the accounts how much of the money on hand
is applicable to the payment of this class of debts; but the law
nowhere requires the setting apart of this fund any more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

others from the common stock. In the treasury all funds are
mingled together, and kept so until called for to meet specific
demands.

.

.

.

The remedy sought, in order to be com-

plete, would require the court to assume all the executive authority of the State, so far as it related to the enforcement of.
this law, and fo supervise the conduct of all persons charged
with any official duty in respect to the levy, collection and disbursement of the tax in question until the bonds, principal and
interest, were paid in full, and that, too, in a proceeding in
which the State, as a State, was not and could not be made a
party. It needs no argument to show that the political power
cannot be thus ousted of its jurisdiction and the judiciary set
in its place. When a State submits itself, without reservation,
to the jurisdiction of a court in a particular case, that jurisdiction may be used to give full effect to what the State has by its
act of submission allowed to be done; and if the law permits
coercion of the public officers to enforce any judgment that may
be rendered, then such coercion may be employed for that purpose. But this is very far from authorizing the courts, when a
State cannot be sued, to set up-its jurisdiction over the officers
in charge of the public moneys, so as to control them as against
the political power in their administration of the finances of the
State. In our opinion, to grant the relief asked for in either of
these cases would be to exercise such a power."
We are clearly of opinion that within the meaning of the
constitutional provisions relating to actions instituted by privatd
persons against a State, this suit, though in form against an
officer of the State, is against the State itself. In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 44 ; Pennoyer v. .eeCwnaughy, 140 U S. 1, 10.
But it is contended that by the section of the Political Code
of California above quoted the Sta'e has consented that its
Treasurer may be sued in respect of the matters specified in that
sebtion, and it is argued that this case comes within the decision
in -Beers v. Ar'7ansa§, 20 How. 527, 529, in which it was said
to be an established principle of jurisprudence in all civilized
nations that while the sovereign cannot be sued in its own courts
or in any other without its consent and permission, a State "may,
if it thinks proper, waive this privilege, and permit itself to be

SMITH v. REEVES.
Opinion of the Court.

made a defendant in a suit by individuals or by another State."
So in Clark v. Barnard,108 U. S. 436, -47: "The immunity
from suit belonging to a State, which is respected and protected
by the Constitution within the limits of the judicial power of
the United States, is a personal privilege which it may waive
at pleasuie; so that in a suit, otherwise well brought, in which
a State had sufficient interest to entitle it to become a party
defendant, its appearance in a court of the United States would
be a voluntary submission to its jurisdiction; while, of course,
those courts are always- open to it as a suitor in controversies
between it and citizens of other States."
It is quite true the State has consented that its Treasurer
may be sued by any party who insists that taxes have been illegally exacted from him under assessments made by the State
Board of Equalization. But we think that it has not consented to
be sued except in one of its own courts. This is not expressly
declared in the statute, but such, we think, is its meaning. The
requirement that the aggrieved taxpayer shall give notice of
his suit to the Comptroller, and the provision that the Treasurer
may at the time he demurs or answers "demand that the action
be tried in the Superior Court of the county of Sacramento,"
indicate that the State contemplated proceedings to be instituted and carried to a conclusion only in its own judicial.tribunals. If a Circuit Court of the United States can take cognizance of an action of this character, the right given to the
Treasurer by the local statute to have the case tried in the Superior Court of Sacramento County would be of no value; for, as
the jurisdiction and authority of a Circuit Court of the United
States depends upon the Constitution and laws of the United
States, it could not refuse to take cognizance of the case if right-fully commenced in it and to proceed to final decree, nor could
it, merely in obedience to the laws of the State, transfer it to a
state court upon the demand of the State Treasurer. A Federal
court can neither take nor surrender jurisdiction except pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the United States.
In Beere v. Arkan8a, above cited, it was further said: "As
tbj permission [to be sued] is altogether voluntary on the part
of the sovereignty, it follows that it may prescribe the terms

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and conditions on which it consents to be sued, and the manner
in which the suit shall be conducted, and may withdraw its
consent whenever it may suppose that justice to the public requires it. Arkansas, by its constitution, so far waived the privilege of sovereignty as to authorize suits to be instituted against
it in its own courts, and delegated to its Geheral Assembly the
power of directing in what courts, and in what manner, the
suit might be commenced. And if the law of 1854 had been
passed before the suit was instituted, we do not understand that
any objection would have been made to it.

The objection .is

that it was passed after the suit was instituted, and contained
regulations with which the plaintiff could not conveniently
comply. But the prior law was not a contract. It was an ordinary act of legislation, prescribing the conditions upon which
the State consented to waive the privilege of sovereignty. It contained no stipulation that these regulations should not be modified afterwards, if, upon experience, it was found that further
provisions were necessary to protect the public interest; and
no such contract can be implied from the law, nor can this
court inquire whether the law operated hardly or unjustly upon
the parties whose suits were then pending. That was a question for the consideration of the legislature. They might have
repealed the prior law altogether, and put an end to the jurisdiction of their courts in suits against the State, if they had
thought proper to do so, or prescribe new conditions upon
which the suits might still be allowed to proceed. In exercising this latter power the State violated no contract with the
parties; it merely regulated the proceedings in its oWn courts,
and lifnited the jurisdiction it had before conferred in suits
when the State consented to be a party defendant."
In support of the broad proposition that the State could not
restrict its consent to be sued to actions brought in its own
courts, counsel refer to Railway Company v 11hitton, 13 Wall.
270, 286; Reagan v. Fanmers' Loan & Tust Co., 151 U. S.
362, 391, and Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 516.
Railway Company v. Whitton related to a statute of Wisconsin, giving a right of action, in certain circumstances, where
the death of a person was caused by the wrongful act, neglect

SMITH v. REEVES.
Opinion of the Court.

or default of another person or. of a corporation, and which
statute provided that the action should be brought in some
court established under the constitution and laws of the State.
This court held that in all cases where a general right was thus
conferred, "it can be enforced in any Federal court within the
State having jurisdiction of the parties. It cannot be withdrawn from the cognizance of such Federal court by any provision of state legislation that it shall only be enforced in a
state court.

.-

.

.

Whenever a general rule as to property

or personal rights, or injuries to either, is established by state
legislation, its enforcement by a Federal court in. a case between propel, parties, is a matter of course, and the jurisdiction
of the court, in such case, is not subject to state limitation."
Reagan v. Farmers' .oan & T" 'ust Go. was an action by a
New York corporation against. the railroad commissioners ofTexas and others to enjoin the enforcement of certain railroad
rates established by the statutes of Texas. This court said:
"Nor can it be said in such a case that relief is obtainable only
in the courts of the State. For it may be laid down as a general proposition that, whenever a citizen of a State can go
into the courts of the State to defend his property against the
illegal acts of its officers, a citizen of another State may invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal courts to maintain a like
defence. A State cannot tie up a citizen of another State, having property rights within its territory invaded by unauthorized acts of its own officers, to suits for redress in its own
courts. Given a case where a suit can be maintained in the
courts of the State to protect property rights, a citizen of another State may invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal courts."
Smyti v. Ames was a suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States against the members of the State Board of Transportation of Nebraska and other persons and corporations, to enjoin
the enforcement of certain rates established by a statute of
that State for railroads. In that case it was insisted that the
relief sought could only be had in an action brought in the
Supreme Court of Nebraska, such being the remedy provided
by the statute there in question. That provision, it was contended, took from the Circuit Court of the United States its

OCTOBER TERA,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

equity jurisdiction in respect of the rates prescribed, and required the dismissal of the bills. This court said: "We cannot
,accept this view of the equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States. The adequacy or inadequacy of a remedy
at law for the protection of the rights of one entitled upon any
ground to invoke the powers of a Federal court is not to be
conclusively determined by the statutes of the particular State
in which suit may be brought. One who is entitled to sue in
the Federal Circuit Court may invoke its-jurisdiction in equity
whenever the established principles and rules of equity permit
such a suit in that court, and he cannot be deprived of that
right by reason of his being allowed to sue at law in a state
court on the same cause of action. It is true that an enlargement of equitable rights arising from the statutes of a State
may be administered by the Circuit Courts of the United States.
Case of Broderice's Will, 21 Wall. 503, 520; Hollandv. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, 24; Dick v. Foraker, 155 U. S. 404, 415;
Bardon v. Land and River lnp)rov. Co., 157 U. S. 3'27, 330;
Rich v. Braxton, 158 U. -S. 375, 405. 13ut if the case in its essence be one, cognizable in equity, the plaintiff, the required
value being in dispute, may invoke the equity powers of the
proper Circuit Court of the United States whenever jurisdiction attaches by reason of diverse citizenship or upon any other
ground of Federal jurisdiction. Payne v. I-ook, 7 Wall. 425,
430; AfoConihay v. Wright, 121 U. S. 201, 205. A party,
by going into a national court, does not, this court has said,
lose any right or appropriate remedy of which he might have
availed himself in the state courts of the same locality; that
the wise policy of the Constitution gives him a choice of tribunals. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 201, 221 ; Cowley v. .1orthern
Pacifgc RailroadCo., 158 U. S. 569, 583." In Smyth v. Ames
the court distinctly reaffirmed what was said upon this point
in Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & T'ust Co.
These cases do not control the determination of the present
question. The Whitton suit was wholly between private parties, and involved no question as to the State or the powers or
acts of state officers. In the Reagan and Smyth cases the relief sought was against the proposed action of state officers or

SMITH v. REEVES.
Opinion of the Court.

agents, and they were not in any sense suits against the Statethe relief asked being protection against affirmative action about
to be taken by state officers in hostility to the rights of the respective plaintiffs.
In the present case the suit was one to compel an officer of
the State, by affirmative action on his part, to perform or comply with the promise of the State as defined in its Political
Code, and therefore, as we have said, it is a suit against the
State. Nothing heretofore said by this court justifies the contention that a State may not give its consent to be sued in its
own courts by private persons or by corporations, in respect of
any cause of action against it and at the same time exclude the
jurisdiction of the Federal courts-subject always to the condition, arising out of the supremacy of the Constitution of the
United States and the laws made in pursuance thereof, that the
final judgment of the highest court of the State in any action
brought against it with its consent may be reviewed or redxamined, as prescribed by the act of Congress, if iL denies to the
plaintiff any right, title, privilege or immunity secure& to him
and specially claimed under the Constitution or laws of the
United States.
In our judgment it was competent for the State to couple
with its consent to be sued on account of taxes alleged to have
been exacted under illegal assessments made by the state board,
the condition that the suit be brought in one of its own courts.
Such legislation ought to be deemed a part of the taxing system
of the State, and cannot be regarded as hostile to the General
Government, or as touching upon any right granted or secured
by the Constitution of the United States.. If the California
statute be construed as referring only to suits brought in one of
its own courts, it does not follow that injustice will be done to
any taxpayer.whose case pres6nts a Federal question. For, if
he be denied, any right, privilege or immunity secured by the
Constitution or laws of the United States and specially set up
by him, the case can be brought here upon writ of error from
the highest court of the State.
Again, it is contended that a State cannot claim exemption
from suit by a corporation created by Congress-as was 'the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company-for purposes authorized by the Constitution and laws of the United States. This
contention rests upon the ground that the Eleventh Amendment-which was passed because of the decision in Chisholn
v. Georgia,2 Dall. 419-only declares that the judicial power
of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any
suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against one of
the United States "by citizens of another State, or by citizens
or subjects of any foreign State," and does not forbid an action
against a State by a corporation created by Congress. It is
further said that although the present case may not be embraced by the clause of section 2, article III, of the Constitution, extending the judicial power of the United States to controversies "between a State and citizens of another State" and
to controversies "between a State, or the citizens thereof, and
foreign States, citizens or subjects," this suit having been
brought by a Federal corporation created for national purposes,
Osborn v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Californiav. Central Paceifio
Railroad,127 U. s. 1; Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v. Amato,
144 U. S. 465, is embraced by the clause of the same article
extending the judicial power of the United States, in express
words, "to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Con-stitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority."
If the Conlstitution be so interpreted it would follow that any
corporation created by Congress may sue a State in a Circuit
Court of the United States upon any cause of action, whatever
its nature, if the value of the matter in dispute is sufficient to
give jurisdiction. We cannot approve this interpretation.
This question is controlled by the principles announced in
Hans v. Louisiana, 131 U. S. 1, 10, 14, 16-21. That was an
action brought in the Circuit Court of the United States by a
citizen of Louisiana against that State. It was a case that
could be said to have arisen under the Constitution of the
United States; and the contention was that the Eleventh
Amendment did not exclude from the jurisdictionof the Circuit
Court a suit brought against a State by one of its own citizens,
provided it was one arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States.

SMITH v. REEVES.
Opinion of the Coart.

In the opinion in that case, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley,
reference was made to the question involved in Cisholm v.
Georgia,and to what had been said by leading statesmen, prior
to the adoption of the Constitution, in support of the general
proposition that sovereignty could not, without its consent, bebrought to the bar of any court at the suit of private parties or
corporations. This court said: "That a State cannot be sued
by a citizen of another State, or of a foreign State, on the mere
ground that the case is one arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, is clearly established by the decisions
of this court in several recent cases. Louisiana v. Jumel, 107
U. S. 711 ; Hragood v. Souther, 117 U. S. 52; In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 443. Those were cases arising under the Constitution of
the United States, upon laws complained of as impairing the
obligation of contracts, one of which was the constitutional
amendment. of Louisiana complained of in the present case.
Relief was sought against state officers who professed to act in
obedience to those laws. This court held that the suits were
virtually against the States themselves and were consequently
violative of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, and
could not be maintained. It was not denied that they presented cases arising under the Constitution; but, notwithstanding that, they were held to be prohibited by the Amendment
referred to."
Referring to certain observations made by Hamilton, Madison
and Marshall, in refutation of the doctrine that States were
liable to suits, the court also. said: "It seems to us that these
-views of those great advocates and defenders of the Constitution were most sensible and just; and they apply equally to
the present case as to that then under discussion. The letter is appealed to now, as it was, then, as a ground for sustaining a suit brought by an individual against a State. The
reason against it is as strong in this case as it was in that. It
is an attempt to strain the Constitution and the law to a construction never imagined or dreamed of. Can we suppose that,
when the Eleventh Amendment was adopted, it was understood
to be left open for citizens of a State to sue their own State in
the Federal courts, whilst the idea of suits by citizens of other

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

States, or of foreign States, was indignantly repelled? Suppose that Congress, when proposing the Eleventh Amendment,
bad appended to it a proviso that nothing therein contained
should prevent a State from being sued by its own citizens in
cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, can we imagine that it would have been adopted by the
States? The supposition that it would is almost an absurdity
on its face."
Again: "The suability of a State without its consent was a
thing unknown to the law. This has been so often laid down
and acknowledged by courts and jurists that it is hardly necessary to be formally asserted. . . . 'It may be accepted as
a point of departure unquestioned,' said Mr. Justice Miller, in
Cunningham v. .facon & Brunswick Railroad,109 U. S. 446,
451, 'that neither a State nor the United States'can be sued as
defendant in any court in this country without their consent,
except in the limited, class of cases in which a State may be
made a party in the Supreme Court of the United States by
virtue of the original jurisdiction conferred on this court by the
Constitution.' Undoubtedly a State may be sued by its own
consent, as was the casein Curran v. Arkansas et al., 15 How.
304, 309, and in Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436, 447. The
suit in the former case was prosecuted by virtue of a state law
which the legislature passed in conformity to the constitution of
that State. But this court decided, in Beers et al. v. Arkansas,
20 How. 527, 529, that the State could repeal that law at any
time; that it was not a contract within the terms of the Constitution prohibiting the passage of state laws impairing the
obligation of a contract.

.

.

. It is not necessary that we

should enter upon an examination of the reasons or expediency
of the rule which exempts a sovereign State from prosecution
in a court of justice at the suit of individuals. This is fully
discussed by writers on public law. It is enough for us to declare its existence."
The present plaintiffs, as did the plaintiffs in Hans v. Louisiana, base the argument in support of their right to sue the
State in the Circuit Court of the United States upon the mere
letter of the Constitution. We deem it unnecessary to repeat

EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Syllabus.

or enlarge upon the reasons given in ans v. Louisiana why a
suit brought agairist a State by one of its citizens was excluded
from the judicial power of the United States, even when it is
one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. They apply equally to a suit of that character brought
against the State by a corporation created by Congress. Such
a suit cannot, consistently with the Constitution, be brought
within the cognizance of a Circuit Court of the United States
without the consent of the State. It could never have been
intended to exclude from Federal judicial power suits arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States when
brought against a State by private individuals or state corporations, and at the same time extend such power to suits of
like character brought by.Federal corporations against a State
without its consent.
The Circuit Court entertained jurisdiction of the cause and
dismissed the bill. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
Circuit Court erred in holding jurisdiction, but affirmed the order of dismissal upon the ground of want of jurisdiction in the
latter court to take cognizance of such a case as is here presented. We approve the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and its judgment is
Affirmed.

EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 218. Argued April 11, 1900. -Decided May 14, 1900.

An attachment sued out against a bank as garnishee is not an attachment
against the bank or its property, nor a suit against it within the meaning
of section 5242 of the Revised Statutes.
When the Chestnut Street National Bank suspended and went into the
hands of a receiver, the entire control and administration of its assets
were committed to the receiver and the comptroller, subject, however,
to any rights of priority previously acquired by the plaintiff through the
proceedings in the suit against Long.
VOL. oLxxvIII-29

