DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD CO.

409.

Opinion of the Court.

DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD
PANY.

COM-

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO.
No. 269. Argued April 27, 1900.-Decided May 28,1900.

The act of Congress of March 3, 1891, concerning coal mines, makes three
requirements: (1) Ventilation of not less than fifty-five feet of pure air
per second, or 3300 cubic feet per minute for every fifty men at work,
and in like proportions fdr a greater number; (2) proper appliances and
machinery to force the air through the mine to the face of working places;
(3) keeping all workings free from standing gas; and if either of these
three requirements was neglected, to the injury of the plaintiff's intestates, the defendant was liable.
The act does not give to mine'owners the privilege of reasoning on the
sufficiency of appliances for ventilation, or leave to their judgment the
amount of ventilation that is sufficient for the protection of miners.
It does not allow standing gas, but requires the mine to be kept clear of
it, and if this is not done the consequence of neglecting it cannot be excused because some workman may disregard instructions.
It is the master's duty to furnish safe appliances and safe working places,
and if the neglect of this duty concurs with that of the negligence of a
fellow-servant, the master is liable.
On the issues made, and on the evidence, and regarding the provisions of
the act of Congress, the instructions given by the trial court to the jury
were erroneous.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. lieill B. Field for plaintiff in error.

-'.

F. M Clancy

was on his brief.
.M. Robert Dunlap for defendant in error. -Yr. E. D.
Kenna and -r. R. E. Twitchell were on his brief.
MR. JUsTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is consolidated of three, brought by plaintiff in
error, who was plaintiff in the court below and may be so called

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

'here, as administratrix of the estates respectively of her husband, Henri Deserant, and her sons Jules Deserant and Henri
Deserant, Jr.
The actions were for damages for the deaths of her said intestates by an explosion in a mine owned by defendant, and
which explosion was alleged to have been caused by the negligence of plaintiff in error. The action was based upon a statute
of New Mexico, which gives an action for damages to the personal representatives of a person whose death is caused by the
wrongful act of another, if the person causing the injury would
have been liable to an action for damages if death had not ensued.
There were two trials, both by jury, in the District Court of
the Territory. The first resulted in a verdict and judgment
for plaintiff. They were reversed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory. 49 Pac. Rep. 807. The second resulted in a verdict
and judgment for defendant. They were affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. 55 Pac. Rep. 290. This writ
of error was then sued out.
There is no dispute about the explosion or that the deaths of
plaintiff's intestates were caused by it. The dispute is as to the
cause of the explosion and the responsibility of defendant for it.
The evidence presents long and elaborate descriptions of the
mine, with its "slopes, air shafts, entries, cross cuts, air courses.
conduits and break throughs."
We do not think that it is necessary to repeat the descriptions. There is no controversy about them.. The issue between
the parties is as to the amount and sufficiency of ventilation, its
obstruction, the accumulation of explosive gases, their negligent ignition, whether by a fellow-servant of plaintiff's intestates or by a representative of the defendant, making it liable,
or whether the'explosion was of powder accidentally ignited.
The method of ventilation was by machinery causing a circulation of air through the mine and up to the face of the working places, for the purpose of rendering harmless or expelling
the noxious gases.
It is contended by plaintiff that the machinery was insufficient for that purpose, the .employ~s of the defendant were in-

DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD CO.

411

Opinion of the Court.

efficient and negligent, and that the air shafts had been permitted to become obstructed, whereby gases accumulated, and
stood in the mine and exploded on the 27th of February, 1895,
causing the deaths of plaintiff's intestates.
The means of ventilation was a fan at the entrance of the
mine, which by its revolutions exhausted the air in the mine,
and outside air rushed in and through the passages of the mine,
and was directed where desired by means of curtains called
"brattices."
It is claimed there were defects in those appliances, whereby
there were leaks in the circulation of the air, and besides that
water had been allowed to accumulate in the fourth left air
course, which so interrupted the quantity of air which passed
into room 8 of the fourth left. entry that the air did not go to
the face of that room, but feebly passed around the brattice at
a distance of twelve or fourteen feet, thus permitting the accumulation of a dangerous body of gas, until it passed beyond the
danger signals, which may have been put into the room by the
fire boss, and that Donahue, the day foreman, and Flick and
Kelly, all miners, entered the room on the day of the explosion,
with naked lamps, and ignited the gas before they saw or had
an opportunity to see the danger signal. The employ~s of the
mine consisted of miners, rope riders, mule drivers, track men
and "company men." The latter were paid by the day, and
worked under the order and immediate supervision of the foreman or pit boss, while the miners were paid by the ton, and
were subject to general supervision by the foreman. Besides
these, there was a mine superintendent, day foreman or pit boss,
night foreman or pit boss, day fire boss and night boss. There
was also a mine inspector, who lived in Kansas, and periodically
visited the mine and other mines owned by defendant.
It is claimed that the mine foreman and fire bosses knew of
the gas in room 8, and that the deceased miners.did not know
it, nor have means of knowing it.
The mine was inspected day and night respectively by the
day and night fire bosses, and it was the duty of each to advise
each miner as he came in of the condition of his working place,
and no miner was permitted into the mine to work until so advised.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The gas is explosive when mixed with certain proportions of
atmdospheric air. It is lighter than air, and, therefore, dispelled
by a current of air, and this was the means necessary to be employed *todisperse the gas. The gas when it explodes moves
against the opposing current of air. In other vords, expends
its force in the direction from which the air comes.
On Sunday night Kilpatrick, the foreman, discovered enough
gas in room 8 to crack his safety lamp, but he did not regard
it as sufficient to mark the place dangerous.
On Monday morning (the explosion was on Wednesday) the
day fire boss found gas in room 8, and put a danger mark above
the last cross cut, but did not go back to the room again, although he knew that it was one of the worst rooms in the mine
for gas. He testified that he considered the danger mark sufficient.
On Monday night before the explosion, Ray, the night fire
boss, was at the face of room 8, and found no fire marks, but
found a little gas, and put fire marks in the room. He inspected
the mine on Tuesday, but did not visit room 8.
Donahue, mine foreman, Flick and Kelly, two " company
men," were killed by the explosion, and their bodies were found
in or near room 8.
The conclusion, which plaintiff claimed to be established by
the evidence, is that Flick and Kelly went with Donahue, under
whose direction they worked, into room 8 with naked lights,
and that an explosion was caused by the gas in the room coming in contact with the lights.
The defendant, on the contrary, contended that the "explosion was of some kind or other at or in the neighborhood of
room 16 in the fourth left entry of the mine, where the deceased
were working as coal miners." It is claimed that the cause of
the explosion is altogether of conjecture and surmise, and that
the greatest evidence or effect of explosion and fire appeared
in the neighborhood of rooms 16 and 17, in the entry way
thereabout, and that some powder cans were found exploded,
and coal dust was found coked on some of the pillars on the
back of a car, and a car loaded with coal was moved several
feet off the track. It is hence conjectured that the explosion

DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD CO.

413

Opinion of the Court.

was caused by some negligent or accidental ignition of powder
which instantly set fire to the coal dust, which more or less impregnated the air and the entry ways, and of particles of gas
which might be found in the hollows and crevices; so that
death would be caused by concussion, or by the after damp
caused by the explosion. Or it is conjectured again that the
explosion might have been caused by some miner, while working, suddenly strilng a seam or body of gas, which was ignited
by his light, and thus ignited powder near at hand.
At the close of the testimony the plaintiff and the defendant
asked for peremptory instructions for their respective sides,
which were refused.
The assignments of error are based on exceptions to evidence
and on exceptions to instructions.
In passing on the case the Supreme Court of the Territory
said that it was "unnecessary for us to consider the objections
urged to the instructions given by the court below. In our
opinion they were all in favor of the plaintiff, as the court should
have granted the motion of the defendant, and instructed the
jury to find the defendant not guilty."
In support of this conclusion it stated the theory of the plaintiff to be that the explosion was caused by an "accumulation
of water previous to the explosion in a low place in the fourth
left air course, a sufficient quantity of pure air was not going to the
face of the workings in the fourth left entry to remove and expel the noxious gases; that Kelly and Flick, who were company
men - that is, men who were paid by the day and not according to what work they did - acting under instructions from
Donahue, the day pit boss, went with him or by his direction into
room 8 to remove a railroad track, carrying naked lights, and
that such lights set fire to the gas which had accumulated there
by reason of the insufficiency of air, and caused the explosion.
This theory is purely speculative, and is not supported by the
evidence. It cannot be positively proved what was the initial
point of the explosion or what caused it. In fact, the evidence
goes to show, from measurements taken at various times by the
superintendent of the mine, the pit boss and the United States
inspector, that sufficient air was going through the fourth left

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

air course and mine to make it safe. Indeed, the evidence goes
further, and shows that after the explosion and on the day of
the investigation by the coroner's jury, and while much of the
debris caused by the explosion was still in the fourth left air
course, a sufficiency of air was passing through it over the
water and debris through the low place, w.ich was claimed by
the plaintiff to have been obstructed by water, for the proper
ventilation of the entry and its rooms and the expulsion of all
harmful gases, and for the men and animals working there at
the time of the explosion. There is no evidenc that the condition of the fourth left air course was the direct or proximate
cause of the explosion, and for the plaintiff to recover this must
be proved by a preponderance of the evidence."
The court also held that Flick, Kelly and Donahue were fellow-servants of the deceased ; therefore, if the contention of the
plaintiff was true, that the gas was ignited by their negligence,
the defendant had no cause for action.
We have read the evidence, and we cannot concur with the Supreme Court of the Territory that the trial court "should have
granted the motion of the defendant, and instructed to find the
defendant not guilty." It was for the jury to determine from
the evidence the place of the explosion and its cause, and what,
if any, negligence the defendant was guilty of, and the evidence
offered on the issues required the submission of those questions
to the jury.
The effect of the act of Flick, Kelly and Donahue we will
consider hereafter.
The trial court, in giving instructions to the jury,
read section 6 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1891, which is as follows:
"By section 6 of an act of Congress, approved March 3, 1891,
c. 564, 26 Stat. 1101, it is provided as follows:
"' Ssc. 6. That the owners or managers of every coal mine
at a depth of one hundred feet or more shall provide an adequate amount of ventilation of not less than fifty-five cubic
feet of pure air per second, or thirty-three hundred cubic feet
per minute, per every fifty men at work in said mine and in
like proportions per a greater number, which air shall by proper

DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD CO.

415

Opinion of the Court.

appliances or machinery be forced through such mine to the
face of each and every working place so as to dilute and render harmless and expel therefrom the noxious or poisonous
gases, and all workings shall be kept clear of standing gas.'
The court then instructed the jury as follows:
"If, therefore, the jury believe from the evidence. that the
defendant, the Cerillos Coal Railroad Company, was operating
a coal mine at a depth of more than one hundred feet below
the surface of the earth, and that the plaintiff's intestates respectively were employed by the defendant in the operation of
said coal mine, it was, by reason of said act of Congress, the
duty of the defendant to provide an adequate amount of ventilation of not less than thirty-five cubic feet of pure air per second
and thirty-three hundred cubic feet per minute for every fifty
men who worked in said mine, which air should have been, by
proper appliances or machinery, forced through such mine to
the face of each and every working place therein, so as to
dilute and render harmless and expel therefrom the noxious or
poisonous gases, and all workings of such mine should have
bcen kept clear of standing gas in dangerous quantities; and if
the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant, the Cerillos Coal Railroad Company, failed or neglected to provide an
adequate amount of ventilation so as to dilute and render harmless and expel from the said mine the noxious poisonous gases
which were generated therein, or to keep, the working places
of said mine clear of standing gas, such failure on the part of
the defendant may be considered by the jury as evidence of
negligence on the part of the defendant.
"9. Negligence is defined to be the omission to do something
which a reasonable man, guided by those considerations which
ordinarily regulate the conduct of human affairs, would do, or
the doing something which a prudent and reasonable man
would not do. It must be determined in all cases by reference
to the situation and knowledge of the parties and all the attending circumstances. If an occupation attended with danger
can be prosecuted by proper precautions without fatal results,
such precautions must be taken by the promoters of the pursuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or employers of laborers therein. All occupations producing
articles or works of necessity, utility or convenience, may undoubtedily be carried on and competent persons familiar with
the business and having sufficient skill therein, may properly
be employed upon them, but in such cases where the occupation
is attended with danger to life or limb, it is incumbent on the
promoters thereof, and the employers or others thereon, to take
all reasonable and needed precautions to secure safety to the
persons engaged in their prosecution, and for any negligence
in this respect from which injury follows to the persons engaged,
such promoters and employers may be held responsible and
inulcted to the extent of the injury inflicted, if any. Occupations, however important, which cannot be conducted without
necessary danger to life, body or limb, should not be prosecuted at all without reasonable precautions against such dangers
afforded by science.. The necessary danger attending them
should operate as a prohibition of their pursuit without such
safeguards. Indeed, it may be laid down as a legal principle
that in all occupations attended with great and unusual danger,
there must be used all appliances readily attainable known to
science for the prevention of accidents, and that a neglebt to
provide such readily attainable appliances, and to keep the
same in fit and suitable condition, will be regarded as proof of
culpable negligence..
"10. I charge you, gentlemen, that it is the duty of the
master to use reasonable care and diligence to provide a reasonably safe place in which his servants shall perform their respective. duties, and also to use reasonable care and diligence to
provide reasonably safe appliances for the protection of his
servants, and-to use reasonable care and diligence to keep such
appliances in a reasonably safe condition for the protection of
his servants; and the master cannot, by the delegation of any
part of his duty to an agent, or servant, relieve himself of responsibility for injuries to his servants arising from the neglect
of this duty. Any agent or servant of the master, appointed
by him for the purpose of looking to the safety of such appliances without regard to the rank or station of such agent, or
servant, is the representative of the master for such purpose,

DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.
and the negligence of any such agent or servant in such matters is, in contemplation of the law, the negligence of the
master, and the master is liable for any damage occasioned
thereby.
"11. Although you may believe from the evidence that the
fellow-servants of the deceased by their negligence contributed
to the bringing about of the explosion in which deceased were
killed, yet, if you also believe from the evidence that the
negligence of defendaiit also contributed to the same result,
you must find a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, unless you believe from the evidence that plaintiff's intestates, or one of
them, knew, or had means of knowledge, of such negligence of
defendant, and notwithstanding such knowledge, or means of
knowledge, continued to work-in the mine of defendant.
"12. The law requires that the defendant shall keep the
workings in its mine clear of standing gas, and if you believe
from the evidence the defendant failed to keep the workings
in its mine clear of standing gas, and that such failure contributed to the deaths of the deceased, then you are justified in
believing defendant guilty of negligence and you must find a
verdict in favor of the plaintiff, unless you believe from the evidence that the plaintiff's intestates or one of them knew of the
existence of such gas and continued to work in the mine of defendant with such knowledge.
"13. If the jury believe from the evidence that the plaintiff's
intestates knew or had reason to know that dangerous bodies
of gas. were permitted to accumulate in the open places of defendant's mine and to remain for a period of thirty-six hours
or more, without any effort on the part of the agents and the
servants of defendant to move the same, and that no precau.tions against the explosion of such.gases were accustomed
to be taken except to marl the open place were such gas might
be with a danger mark, and plaintiff's intestates, notwithstanding such knowledge or means of knowledge, continued to work
in said mine, the plaintiff's intestates thereby assumed the risk
incident to such method and cannot recover if their fellowservants ignited such gas by going over or disregarding such
fire mark.
VOL. cLxxvIII-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, ,1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"14. If you believe from the evidence that the explosion
originated in room 8 of the fourth left entry of the mine in consequence of the accumulation in said room of a body of dangerous gas, merely guarded by a fire mark or danger signal for
thirty-six or forty-eight hours before the explosion, and that
plaintiff's intestates did not consent or agree to work in said
mine with places dangerous because of gas merely guarded by
fire marks or danger signals for thirty-six or forty-eight hours,
then plaintiff is entitled to recover in each case, although you
may also believe that said body of dangerous gas was ignited by
the negligence of fellow-servants of plaintiff's intestates."
The main charge of the court was not objected to. The
objections were to certain instructions given at the request of
the defendant. '
They were as follows:
"1. The jury are instructed that what was required of the
defendant in the conduct of its mining. business, in caring for
the 'miners employed by and engaged in working its mine, was
the adoption and use of appliances and methods reasonably
sufficient for the protection of the miners against any dangers
attending the operation of its mine, that were obvious or might
with reasonable diligence have become known; and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it is presumed that the defendant performed its entire duty towards the miners in that respect."
"6. Although the jury may believe from the evidence that
gas of the quantity mentioned in the evidence had accumulated
and was allowed to remain in room 8 for the time stated in the
evidence, and believe from the evidence that the explosion testified to originated in room 8, and further believe from the evidence that signals of the kind described in the evidence warning
against entry into said room were placed in such a manner as
to be observed by the deceased Flick and Kelly, and the meaning and significance of such signal was understood by them,
and such signal was known to be in use by the miners engaged
in working in said mine, and that the use of such signal was
understood by such miners to inform them of the presence of
gas in dangerous quantity ; then, if the jury believe from the
evidence that such explosion was caused by Flick and Kelly

DESERANT v. CERILLOS COAL RAILROAD CO.

419

Opinion of the Court.

entering said room with a naked light, the defendant is entitled
to, and you should render, a verdict in its favor."
"10. The burden of showing negligence on the part of the
defendant, that caused the death of the persons for which this
action is brought is upon the plaintiffs, and evidence has been
introduced for the purpose of showing an obstruction of the air
course through which that portion of the unine where the deceased persons worked was ventilated. The presumption is that
the mine was properly and sufficiently supplied with air, unless
the evidence offered establishes the contrary, and to do this the
jury must find not only a partial obstruction of the air course,
but that the obstruction was of such a nature and to such an
extent as to prevent the passage of the necessary quantity of
air, and if upon the whole testimony the jury believe that notwithstanding the partial obstruction existed, there still was space
enough in the air course unobstructed to allow the proper and
sufficient ventilation of the mine and of the fourth left entry
where such deceased persons were at work, you will find a verdict for the defendant, unless you find from the evidence that
the negligence of the defendant in some other way caused or
contributed to the death of such persons.
"11. If the jury shall believe from the evidence that the defendant permitted fire gas to accumulate in room 8 of its mine,
and that such gas would not produce any injury until ignited,
and that it was ignited by Flick and Kelly, or either of them,
by going into the said room with a naked light, (contrary to the
rules and orders of the defendant,) and by such naked light the
fire gas was ignited and exploded, causing the death of plaintiff's
intestates, such explosion and injxlry were directly and immediately caused by the act of the fellow-servants of plaintiff's intestates, and not by the negligence of defendant, and defendant
is not liable therefor; and a verdict should be rendered for the
defendant."
The act of Congress makes three requirements (1) Ventilation of not less than fifty-five feet of pure air per
second, or 3300 cubic feet per minute, for every fifty men at
work, and in like proportions for a greater number; (2) proper
appliances and machinery to force the air through the mine

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to the face of working places; (3) keeping all workings free
from standing gas. If either of these three requirements was
neglected, to the injury of .plaintiff's intestates, the defendant
was liable.
We think the instructions numbered 1, 6 and 11, given at the
request of the defendant, ignored the obligations of the act of
Congress, and are so far inconsistent with the other instructions
that they tended to confusion and misapprehension-making
the duty of the mine owner relative, not absolute, and its test
'what a reasonable person would do, instead of making the test
and measure of duty the command of the statute. The act of
Congress does not give to mine owners the privilege of reasoning on the sufficiency of appliances for ventilation or leave to
their judgment the amount of ventilation that is sufficient for
the protection of miners. It prescribes the amount of ventilation to be not less than fifty-five cubic feet per second; it prescribes the machinery to be adequate to force that amount of
air through'the mine to the face of every working place. Nor
does it allow standing gas. It prescribes on the contrary that
the mine shall be kept clear of standing gas. This is an imperative duty, and the consequence of neglecting it cannot be excused because some workman may disregard instructions. Congress has prescribed that duty and it cannot be omitted, and
the lives of the miners committed to the chance that the care or
duty of some one else will counteract the neglect and disregard
of the legislative mandate.
But aside from the statute, it is very disputable if the instructions were correct. It is undoubtedly the master's duty to
furnish safe appliances and safe working places, and if the
neglect of this duty concurs with that of the negligence of a
fellow-servant, the master has been held to be liable. Clark
v. Soule, 137 Mass. 380; Cowan, Administrator,v. Thie Chicago,
_Milwaukee & St. PaidRailway Co., 80 Wis. 284; Sherman v.
The 2lenominee River Lumber Co., 72 Wis. 122. See also
Hayes v. Michigan CentralRailroadCo, Ill T. S. 228; Atchison,, . & S. F. R. Co. v. Reesman, 19 U. S. App. 596; Sornmer v. Carlon lull Coal Co., 59 U. S. App. 519 ; Flike v. Boston & Albaniy Railroad,53 N. Y. 550; Booth v. RailroadCo.,

In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 421
Syllabus.

73 N. Y. 38; Grand Trunk Railway Co. v. Cummings, 106
U. S. 700.
The principle was stated in the general charge of the court,
but it was materially modified in the application, and not at
all considered in giving the instructions requested by the defendant.
No exceptions, however, were taken to any portion of the
general charge of the court, and no question arising thereon is
open to our review on this writ of error. But as we remand
the case for a new trial on account of the errors which we have
pointed out irrespective of the general charge, we deem it best
to say that we must not be understood as affirming anything
contained in instructions numbered 11 and 12, or any other instruction which conflicts with the principles announced in Texas
& Pacific Railway Co. v. Archibald, 170 U. S.-665, 671.
We do not intend to express an opinion as to the facts of the
case, or of any fact, or of any of the theories of the explosion.
We only mean to decide that on the issues made and on the
evidence, and regarding the provisions of the act of Congress,
the instructions given by the trial court to the jury were erroneous.
The judgment of the Suvreme Court of the Territoryis reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to reverse
the judgment of the District Court and direct a new t2ial.

Inb re CONNAWAY AS RECEIVER OF THE MOSCOW
NATIONAL BANK.
ORIGINAL.
No.9, Original. Submitted April 9,1900.-Decided May 28,1900.

A national bank was closed by order of the Comptroller of the Currency
and a receiver appointed. An assessment was made upon tile holders of
stock. Overton and Hoffer were among those who were assessed, and
payment not having been made, suit was brought against them. Service

