OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

Congress had made no grant in such circumstances. Here the
victory was that of the navy alone, and the pecuniary fruits
under this statute should not be diminished because the opposing force was partly on shore or under water.
Undoubtedly it is our duty to give effect to the will of Congress, but in ascertaining its will the object Congress manifestly
sought to attain must be recognized, and should be controlling,
unless positively defeated by the language used.
. I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the
court, and am authorized to say that MiR. JUSTICE WHITE and
MNR. JUSTICE MOIKENNA concur in this dissent.

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
APPIEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 503. Submitted January 31,1900. -Decided May 28,1900.

The provisions of the second clause of section 23 of the Bankrupt Act of
1898 control and limit the jurisdiction of all courts, including the several District Courts of the United States, over suits brought by trustees
in bankruptcy to recover or collect debts due from third parties, or to set
aside transfers of property to third parties, alleged to be fraudulent as
against creditors, including payments in money or property to preferred
creditors.
The District Court of the United States can, by the proposed defendant's
consent, but not otherwise, entertain jurisdiction over suits brought by
-trustees in bankruptcy to set aside- fraudulent transfers of money or
property, made by the bankrupt to third parties before the institution.
of the proceedings in bankruptcy.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Ar. Clarence A. Brandendrugfor appellant.

21r. William

filchrist for appellees.

BARDES u. HAWARDEN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.-

MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed April 28, 1899, in the District
Court of the.United States for the Northern District of Iowa,
sitting in bankruptcy, by Fred "Bardes, a citizen of Iowa, as
trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of Frank T. Walker, (who
had by that court been adjudged a bankrupt upon his own petition,) against the First National Bank of Hawarden, Iowa, a
corporation created and existing under the acts of Congress
relating to national banks, and agaihst citizens of Iowa and of
South Dakota, to set aside a conveyance of goods, of the value
of $3500, alleged to have been made by the bankrupt, within
four months before the institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy, to the defendants, and to compel them to account for
the goods or their proceeds, on the ground that the conveyance was in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act of
July 1, 1898, and in fraud of the creditors of the bankrupt.
The defendants demurred to the bill, upon the ground that the
court could not take jurisdiction of the case. .The court sustained the demurrer, and entered a final decree dismissing the
bill for want of jurisdiction, but without prejudice to the plaintiff's right to institute proceedings in a court having jurisdiction. The plaintiff .took an appeal directly to this court; and
the District Judge certified that the bill was dismissed for want
of jurisdiction only, and, to the end that this court might be
fully advised in the premises, stated in his certificate the following questions as having arisen before him, namely:
"1st. Do the provisions of the second clause of section 23 of
the act of Congress, known as the Bankrupt Act of 1898, control and limit the jurisdiction of all courts, including the several District Courts of the United States, over suits brought
by trustees in bankruptcy to recover or collect debts due from
third parties, or to set aside transfers of property to third parties, alleged to be fraudulent as against creditors, including payments in money or property to preferred creditors?
"2d1.Can the District'Court of the United States under any
circumstances entertain jurisdiction over suits brought by trustees in bankruptcy to set aside fraudulent 'transfers of money

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or property, made by the bankrupt to third parties before the
institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy?
"3d. Can this court, being the District Court for the Northern District of Iowa, take jurisdiction over the suit as it now
stands on the record ?"
The record clearly shows, with perhaps unnecessary fulness,
that the case was decided upon questions of jurisdiction only,
and what those questions were. Yuntington v. Laidley, 176
'U.S. 668, 676, and cases there cited.
At a former day of this term, a certificate made by the District Judge of the same question, on which he desired the instruction of this court for his guidance, was dismissed by this
court, because he was not authorized by the acts of Congress to
make such a certificate before deciding the case. Bardes v.
Hawarden Bank, 175 U. S. 526.
By the Bankrupt Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, trustees in bankruptcy, appointed by the creditors of the bankcrupt, or by the
court of bankruptcy, take the place and are vested with the
powers of assignees in bankruptcy under former bankrupt acts.
Among the duties imposed upon such trustees by section 47, are
to "(2) collect and reduce to money the property of the estates
for which they are trustees, under the direction of the court."
By section 70, the trustees, upon their appointment and qualification, are vested by operation of law with the title of the bankrupt, as of the date when he was adjudged a bankrupt, in all his
property, excepting that exempt by law from execution and liability for debts, and including property transferred by him in
fraud of his creditors. And by the fifth clause of section 67,
"all conveyances, transfers, assignments or incumbrances of his
property, or 'any part thereof, made or given by a person adjudged a-bankrupt under the provisions of this act, subsequent
to the passage of this act, and within four months prior to the
filing of the petition, with the intent and purpose on his part to
hinder, delay or defraud his creditors or any of them, shall be
null and void as against the creditors of such debtor, except as
to purchasers in good faith and for a present fair consideration;
.and all property of the debtor conveyed, transferred, assigned
or incumbered as aforesaid shall, if he be adjudged a bankrupt,

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

and the same is not exempt from execution and liability for
debts by the law- of his domicil, be and remain a part of the assets and estate of the bankrupt, and shall pass to his said trustee, whose duty it shall be to recover and reclaim the same, by
legal proceedings or otherwise, for the benefit of the creditors."
30 Stat. 557, 564, 565.
The present appeal fron the final decree of the District Court,
dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction, distinctly presents
for the decision of this court the question whether, under the
act of 1898, a District Court of the United States, in which proceedings in bankruptcy have been commenced and are pending
under the act, has jurisdiction to entertain a suit by the trustee
in bankruptcy against a person holding, and claiming as his own,
property alleged to have been conveyed to him by the bankrupt
in fraud of creditors. This is a question of general importance,
upon which there has been much difference of opinion in the
lower courts of the United States.
Its determination depends mainly on the true construction
of two sections of the Bankrupt Act of 1898, which it may be
convenient to set forth in full, as follows:
"SEc. 2. CREATION OF CouRTs OF BANKRUPTOY AND THEIR
JURISDICTION.-That the courts of bankruptcy, as hereinbefore

defined, viz., the District Courts of the United States in the
several States, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
the District Courts of the several Territories, and the United
States courts in the Indian Territory and the District of Alaska,
are hereby inade courts of bankruptcy, and are hereby invested,
within their respective territorial limits as now established, or
as they may be hereafter changed, with such jurisdiction, at
law and in equity, as will enable them to exercise original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings, in vacation in chambers,
and during their respective terms, as they are now or may be
hereafter held, to (1) adjudge persons bankrupt who have had
their principal place of business, resided or had their domicil
within their respective territorial jurisdictions for the preceding six months, or the greater portion thereof, or who do not
have their principal place of business, reside or have their domicil within the United States, but have property within their

OCTOBEI TERMI[, 1899.
Opinion of-the Court.

jurisdictions, or who have been adjudged bankrupts by courts
of competent jurisdiction without-the United States and have
property within their jurisdictions; (2) allow claims, disallow
. claims, reconsider allowed.or disallowed claims, and allow or
disallow them against bankrupt estates; (3) appoint receivers
or the marshals, upon application of parties in interest, in case
the courts shall find it absolutely necessary for the preservation
of estates, to take charge of the property of bankrupts after
the filing of the petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee
is qualified; (4) arraign, try and punish bankrupts, officers and
other persons, and the agents, officers, members of the board
of directors or trustees, or other similar controlling bodies of
corporations, for violations of this act, in accordance with the
laws of procedure of the United States now in force, or such as
mty be hereafter enacted, regulating trials for the alleged violation of laws of the United States; (5) authorize the business
of bankrupts to be conducted for limited periods by receivers,
the marshals, or trustees, if necessary in the best interests of
the estates; (6) bring in and substitute additional persons or
parties in proceedings in bankruptcy when necessary for the
complete determination of a matter in controversy; (7) cause
the estates of bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and
distributed, and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein otherwise provided; (8) close estates, whenever
it appears that they have been fully administered, by approving
the final accounts and discharging the trustees, and reopen them
whenever it appears they were closed before being fully administered; (9) confirm or reject compositions between debtors
and their creditors, and set aside compositions and reinstate
the cases; (10)' consider and confirm, modify or overrule, or
return with instructions for further proceedings, records and
findings certified to them by referees; (11) determine all claims
of bankrupts to their exemptions; (12) discharge or refuse to
discharge bankrupts, and set aside discharges and reinstate the
cases; (13) enforce obedience by bankrupts, officers and other
persons to all lawful orders, by fine or imprisonment, or fine
and imprisonment; (14) extradite bankrupts from their respective districts to other districts;. (15) make such orders, issue

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

such process, and enter such judgments, in addition to those
specifically provided for, as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this act; (16) punish persons for
contempts committed before referee; (17) pursuant to the recommendation of creditors, or when they neglect to recommend
the appointment of trustees, appoint trustees, and, upon complaints of creditors, remove trustees for cause, upon hearings
and after notices to them; (18) tax costs, whenever they are allowed by law, and render judgments therefor against the unsuccessful party, or the successful party for cause, or in part
against each of the parties, and against estates, in proceedings
in bankruptcy; and (19) transfer cases to other courts of bankruptcy. Nothing in this section contained shall be construed
to deprive a court of bankruptcy of any power it would possess were certain specific powers not herein enumerated." 30
Stat. 545.
"1SEC. 23.

JURISDICTION OF UNITED STATES AND STATE COURTS'.

-a. The United States Circuit Courts shall have jurisdiction
of all controversies at law and in equity, as distinguished from
proceedings in bankruptcy, between trustees as such and adverse claimants, corcerning the property acquired or claimed
by the trustees, in the same manner and to the same extent
only as though bankruptcy proceedings had not been instituted
and such controversies had been between the bankrupts and
such adverse claimants.
"b. Suits by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted
in. the courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them
if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by
consent of the proposed defendant.
"c. The United States Circuit Courts shall have concurrent
jurisdiction with the courts of bankruptcy, within their respective territorial limits, of the offences enumerated in this act."
30 Stat. 552.
- The question of the effect of these two sections, considering
the language of each and their relation to one another, may be
best approached by first referring to the terms and to the judicial construction of the Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867, c. 176,
VOL. CXXVIiI-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which was substantially regnacted in the Revised Statutes, and
afterwards repealed; and by then comparing the provisions of
that act, as so construed, with those of the existing act.
In the act of 1867, the provisions as to the jurisdiction of proceedings in bankruptcy, and as to the original jurisdiction of actions at law and suits in equity, were as follows:
"SEc. 1. That the several District Courts of the United States
be, and they hereby are, constituted courts of bankruptcy, and
they shall have original jurisdiction in their respective districts
in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy, and they are
hereby authorized to hear and adjudicate upon the same according to the -provisions of this act. The said courts shall be always open for the transaction. of business under this act, and,
the powers and jurisdiction hereby granted and conferred shall
be exercised as well in vacation as in term time, and a judge
sitting at chambers shall have the same powers and jurisdiction,
including the power of keeping order and of punishing any contempt of his authority, as when sitting in. court. And the
jurisdiction hereby conferred shall extend to all cases and controversies arising between the bankrupt and any creditor or creditors who shall claim any debt or demand under the bankruptcy;
to the collection of all the assets of the bankrupt; to the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens and other specific claims
thereon; to the adjustment of the various priorities and conflicting interests of all parties, and to the marshalling and disposition of the different funds and assets, so as to secure the
rights of all parties and due distribution of the assets among all
the creditors; and to all acts, matters and things to be done
under and ii virtue of the bankruptcy, until the final distribution and settlement of the estate of the bankrupt, and the close
of the proceedings in bankruptcy." 14 Stat. 517; Rev. Stat.
§§563, 711, 4972, 4973.
"S1Ec. 2. That the several Circuit Courts of the United States,
within and for the districts where the proceedings in bankruptcy
shall be pending, shall have a general superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and questions arising under this act; and,
except when special provision is otherwise made, may, upon
bill, petition or other proper process, of any party aggrieved,

BARDES

HAWARDEN BANK.

Opinion of the Court.

hear and determine the case in a court of equity. The powers
and jurisdiction hereby granted may be exercised either by said
court or by any justice thereof in term time or vacation. Said
Circuit Courts shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with the
District Courts of the same district of all suits at law or in
equity, which may or shall be brought by the assignee in bankruptey against any person claiming an adverse interest, or by
such person against such assignee, touching any property or
rights of property of said bankrupt transferable to or vested'in
such assignee." 14 Stat. 518; Rev. Stat. §§ 4979, 4986.
In Lattrop v. .Drake, (1875) 91 U. S. 516, the jurisdiction
conferred on the District Courts and the Circuit Courts of the
United States by the Bankrupt Act of 1867 was defined by this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, as consisting of "two
distinct classes: first, jurisdiction, as a court of bankruptcy,
-over the proceedings in bankruptcy, initiated by the petition,
and ending in the distribution of assets amongst the creditors,
and the discharge -or refusal of a discharge of the bankrupt;
secondly, jurisdiction, as an ordinary court, of suits at law or in
equity, brought by or against the assignee in reference to alleged
property of the bankrupt, or to claims alleged to be due from
or to him." And the jurisdiction of the District and Circuit
Courts over suits to recover assets of the bankrupt from a
stranger to the proceedings in bankruptcy, brought by the
assignee in a district other than that in which the decree in
bankruptcy had been made, was upheld, not under the provisions of section 1 of that act, giving to the District Court original jurisdiction of proceedings in bankruptcy, and of section 2,
giving to the Circuit Court supervisory jurisdiction over such
proceedings; but wholly under the distinct clause of section 2,
which gave to those two courts concurrent jurisdiction of all
suits, at law or in equity, brought "by the assignee in bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest, or by
such person against such assignee, touching any property or
rights of property of said bankrupt transferable to or vested in
such assignee."
In an earlier case, it had been observed by Mr. Justice Clifford,
delivering a judgment of this court dismissing an appeal from

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a decree of the Circuit Court in the exercise of its supervisory
jurisdiction in bankruptcy, that the jurisdiction conferred by
the later clause was "other and different from the special jurisdiction and superintendence described in the first clause of
the section;" was "of the same character as that conferred
upon the Circuit Courts by the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act" of 1789, and was." the regular jurisdiction between
party and party, as described in the Judiciary Act and the third
article of the Constitution." 2forgan v. Thornhill, (1870) 11
Wall 65, 76, 80.
It was also repeatedly held by this court that the right of an
assignee in bankruptcy to assert a title in property transferred
by the bankrupt before the bankruptcy to a third person, who
now claimed it adversely to the assignee, could only be enforced
*by a p]enary suit, at law or in equity, under the second section
of the act of 1867; and not by summary proceedings under the
first section thereof, notwithstanding the declaration in that section that the jurisdiction in bankruptcy should extend "to the
collection of all the assets of the bankrupt," and "to all acts,
matters and things to be done under and in virtue of the bankruptcy" until the close of the proceedings in bankruptcy. Smith
v. Mason, (1871) 14 Wall. 419; Marshallv. R-ox, (1872) 16 Wall.
551, 557; Eyster v. Gaff, (1875) 91 U. S. 521, 525.
The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States over all
matters and proceedings in bankruptcy, as distinguished from independent suits at law or in equity, was of course exclusive. But
it was well settled that the jurisdiction of such suits, conferred
by the second section of the act of 1867 upon the Circuit and
District Courts of the United States for the benefit of an assignee in bankruptcy, was concurrent with that of the state
courts. In Eyster v. Gaff, just cited, this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Miller, said: "The opinion seems to have been quite
prevalent in many quarters at one time, that, the moment a
man is declared bankrupt, the District Court which has so adjudged draws to itself by that act not only all control of the
bankrupt's property and credits, but that no one can litigate
with the assignee contested rights in any other court, except in
so far as the Circuit Courts havd concurrent jurisdictionj and

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

that other courts can proceed no further in suits of which they
had at that tinie full cognizance; and it was a prevalent practice to bring any person, who contested with the assignee any
matter growing out of disputed rights of property or of contracts, into the bankrupt court by the service of a rule to show
cause, and to dispose of their rights in a summary way. This
court has steadily set its face against this view. The debtor of
a bankrupt, or the man who contests the right to real or personal property with him, loses none of those rights by the bankruptcy of his adversary. The same courts remain open to him
in such contests, and the statute has not divested those courts
of jurisdiction in such actions. If it has for certain classes of
actions conferred a jurisdiction for the benefit of the assignee
in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, it is concurrent with and does not divest that of the state courts."
Under the act of 1867, then, the distinction between proceedings in bankruptcy, properly so called, and independent suits,
at law or in equity, between the assignee in bankruptcy and an
adverse claimant, was distinctly recognized and emphatically
declared. Jurisdiction of such suits was conferred upon the
District Courts and Circuit Courts of the United States by the
express provision to that effect in section 2 of that act, and was
not derived from the other provisions of sections I and 2, conferring jurisdiction of proceedings in bankruptcy. And the
jurisdiction of suits between assignees and adverse claimants, so
conferred on the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States, did not divest or impair the jurisdiction of the state courts
over like cases.
The decisions of this court under the earlier bankrupt act of
August 19, 1841, c. 9, are very few in number, and afford little
aid in the decision of the present case. The one most often
cited in favor of maintaining such a suit as this under the existing law is Eplarte Christy, (1845) 3 How. 292. But section 8
of the act of 1841 contained the provision (afterwards embodied
in section 2 of the act of 1867, and above quoted,) conferring
on the Circuit Courts concurrent jurisdiction with the District
Courts of suits, at law or in equity, between assignees in bankruptcy and adverse claimants of property of the bankrupt.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1899.
Opinien zf the Court.

5 Stat. 446. And Mr. Justice Story in ,Christy's case considerably relied on that provision. 3 Iow. 314. Moreover, the
only point necessary to the decision of that case was that this
court had no. power to issue a, writ of prohibition to the lDistrict
Court sitting in bankruptcy; much of Mr. Justice Story's opinion in favor of extending the jurisdiction of that court at the
expense of the state courts is contrary to the subsequent adjudication of this court in Peek v. Jenness, (1849) 7 How. 612;
and in a still later case this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Curtis, said that the two former cases "are an illustration of the
rule that any opinion given here or elsewhere cannot be relied
on as a binding authority, unless the case called for its expression." Carroll v. Cawrloll, (1853) 16 How. 275, 287.
We now recur to the provisions of the act of 1898. This
act has the somewhat unusual feature of inserting at the head
of each section a separate title indicating the subject-matter.
Section 2 of this act is entitled "Creation of Courts of Bankruptcy and their Jurisdiction," takes the place of section 1 of
the act of 1867, and hardly differs from that section, except in
the following particulars:
First. It begins by describing the jurisdiction conferred on
"the courts of bankruptcy" as "such jurisdiction, at law and
in equity, as will enable them to exercise original jurisdiction
in bankruptcy proceedings; " and it ends by declaring that
"nothing in this section contained shall be construed to deprive
a court of bankrupty of any power it would possess were certain specific powers not herein enumerated."
Second. It specifies in greater detail, matters which are, in
the strictest sense, proceedings in, bankruptcy.
Third. It includes, among the powers specifically conferred on
the courts of bankruptcy, those to "(4) arraign, try and punish
bankrupts, officers and other persons, and the agents, officers,
members of the board of directors or trustees, or other similar
controlling bodies of corporations, for violations of this act, in
accordance with the laws of procedure of the United States
now in force, or such as may be hereafter enacted, regulating
trials for the alleged violation of laws of the United States;"
"(6) bring in and substitute additional persons or parties in

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings in bankruptcy, when necessary for the complete
determination of a matter in controversy; (7)cause the estates
of bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and distributed,
and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein
otherwise provided;" and "(15) make such orders, issue such
process, and enter such judgments, in addition to those specifically provided for, as may be necessary for the enforcement of
the provisions of this act."
The general provisions at the beginning and end of this 'section mention "courts of bankruptcy " and "bankruptcy proceedings."
Proceedings in bankruptcy generally are in the nature of
proceedings in equity; and the words "at law," in the opening
sentence conferring on the courts of bankruptcy "such jurisdiction, at law and in equity, as will enable them to exercise
original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings," may have been
inserted to meet clause 4, authorizing the trial and punishment
of offences, the jurisdiction over which must necessarily be at
law and not in equity.
The section nowhere mentions civil actions at law, or plenary
suits in equity. And no intention to vest the courts of bank-,
ruptcy with jurisdiction to entertain such actions and suits can
reasonably be inferred from the grant of the incidental powers,
in clause 6, to bring in and substitute additional parties "in proceedings in bankruptcy," and, in clause 15, to make orders, issue
process and enter judgments, "necessary for the enforcement of
the provisions of this act."
The chief reliance of the appellant is upon clause 7. But
this clause, in so far as it speaks of the collection, conversion
into money and distribution or the bankrupt's estate, is no
broader than thc correbponding provisions of section 1 of the
act of 1667; and ini that respect, as well as in respect to the
furiher - provision authorizing the court of bankruptcy to "determine controversies in relation thereto," it is controlled and
limited by the concluding words of the clause, "except as herein
otherwise provided."
These words "herein otherwise provided" evidently refer to
section 23 of the act, the general scope and object of which, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

indicated by its title, are to define the "Jurisdiction of United
States and State Courts" in the premises. The first and second
clauses are the only ones relating to civil actions and suits at
law or in equity.
The first clause provides that "the United States Circuit
Courts shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in
equity, as distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy,"
(thus clearly recognizing the essential difference between proceedings in bankruptcy, on the one hand, and suits at law or
in equity, on the other,) "between trustees as such and adverse
claimants, concerning the property acquired or claimed by the
trustees," restricting that jurisdiction, however, by the further
words, "in the same manner and to the same extent only as
though bankruptcy proceedings had not been instituted and
such controversies had been between the bankrupt and such
adverse claimants." This clause, while relating to the Circuit
Courts only, and not to the District Courts of the United
States, indicates the intention of Congress that the ascertainment, as between the trustee in bankruptcy and a stranger to
the bankruptcy proceedings, of the question whether certain
property claimed by the trustee does or does not form part of
the estate to be administered in bankruptcy, shall not be brought
within the jurisdiction of the national courts solely because the
-rights of the bankrupt and of his creditors have been transferred to the trustee in bankruptcy.
But the second clause applies both to the District Courts and
to the Circuit Courts of the United States, as well as to the state
courts. This appears, not only by the clear words of the title
of the section, but also by the use, in this clause, of the general words, "the courts," as contrasted with the specific words,
"the United States Circuit Courts," in the first and in the third
clauses.
The second clause positively directs that "sufts by the trustee shall only be brought or prosecuted in the courts where the
bankrupt, whose estate is being administered by such trustee,
might have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed defendant."

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

Had there been no bankruptcy proceedings,- the bankrupt
might have brought suit in any state court of competent jurisdiction; or, if there was a sufficient jurisdictional amount, and
the requisite diversity of citizenship existed, or the case arose
under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States,
he could have brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States. Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866; 25 Stat. 434. He
could not have sued in a District Court of the United States,
because such a court has no jurisdiction of suits at law or in
equity between private parties, except where, by special provision of an act of Congress, a District Court has the powers
of a Circuit Court, or is given jurisdiction of a particular class
of civil suits.
It was argued for the appellant that the clause cannot apply
to a case like the present one, because the bankrupt could not
have 'brought a suit to set aside a conveyance made by himself
in fraud of his creditors. But the clause concerns the jurisdiction only, and not the merits, of a case; the forum in which a
case may be tried, and not the way in which it must be decided;
the right to decide the case, and not the principles which must
govern the decision. The bankrupt himself could have brought
a suit to recover property, which he claimed as his own, against
one asserting an adverse title in it; and the incapacity of the
bankrupt to set aside his own fraudulent conveyance is a matter affecting the merits of such an action, and not the jurisdiction of the court to entertain and determine it.
The Bankrupt Acts of 1867 and 1841, as has been seen, each
contained a provision conferring in the clearest terms on the
Circuit and District Courts of the United States concurrent jurisdiction of suits at law or in equity between the assignee in
bankruptcy and an adverse claimant of property of the bankrupt. We find it impossible to infer that when Congress, in
framing the act of 1898, entirely omitted any similar provision,
and substituted the restricted provisions of section 23, it intended that either of those courts should retain the jurisdiction which it had under the obsolete provision of the earlier
acts.
On the contrary, Congress, by the second clause of section 23

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the present Bankrupt Act, appears to this court to have clearly
manifested its intention that controversies, not strictly or properly part of the proceedings in bankruptcy, but independent suits
brought by the trustee in bankruptcy to assert a title to money
or property as assets of the bankrupt against strangers to those
proceedings, should' not come within the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States, "unless by consent of the proposed defendant," of which there is no pretence in this case.
One object in inserting this clause in the act may well have
been to leave such controversies to be tried and determined, for
the most part, in the local courts of the State, to the greater
economy and convenience of -litigants and witnesses. See Shoshone Xfining Co. v. TtRufer, 177 U. S. 505, 511, 513.
Two or three minor provisions of the Bankrupt Act of 1898,
sometimes supposed to be inconsistent with this conclusion, may
be briefly noticed.
Section 26 provides that the trustee may, pursuant to the
direction of the court of bankruptcy, submit to arbitration
any controversy arising in the settlement of the estate, and
that the award of the arbitrators "may be filed in court," evidently meaning the court of bankruptcy. But no such arbitration could be had without the consent of the adverse party to
the controversy in question.
The powers conferred on the courts of bankruptcy by clause 3
of section 2, and by section 69, after the filing of a petition in
bankruptcy, and in case it is necessary for the preservation of
property of the bankrupt, to authorize receivers or the marshals
to take charge of it until a trustee is appointed, can hardly be
considered as authorizing the forcible seizure of such property
in the possession of an adverse claimant, and have no bearing
upon the question in what courts the trustee may sue him.
The supervisory jurisdiction over proceedings in bankruptcy,
conferred by the act of 1867 upon the Circuit Courts of the
United States, and by the existing act upon the Circuit Courts
of Appeals, does not affect this case. 30 Stat. 553.
For the reasons above stated, we are of opinion that the questions of jurisdiction certified by the District Judge should be
answered as follows:

MITCHELL v. McCLURE.
Syllabus.

"1st. The provisions of the second clause of section 23 of
the Bankrupt Act of 1898 control and limit the jurisdiction of

4ll courts, including the several District Courts of the United
States, over suits brought by trustees in bankruptcy to recover
or collect debts due from third parties, or to set aside transfers
of property to third parties, alleged to be fraudulent as against
creditors, including payments in money or property to preferred
creditors.
"2d. The District Court of the United States can, by the
proposed defendants' consent, but not otherwise, entertain jurisdiction over suits brought by trustees in bankruptcy to set
aside fraudulent transfers of money or property, made by the
bankrupt to third parties before the institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy.
"3d. The District Court for the Northern District of Iowa
cannot take jurisdiction over this suit as it now stands on the
record."
The result is that the decree of the District Court, dismissing
the bill for want of jurisdiction, must be
Afirmed.

MITCHELL v. MoCLUR-E_
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 237. Submitted April 12,1900.-Decided May 28,1900.

A District Court of the United States has no jurisdiction, without the proposed defendant's consent, to entertain an action of replevin by a trustee
in bankruptcy to recover goods conveyed to the defendant by the bankrupt in fraud of the Bankrupt Act and of his creditors,
Bardes v. HawardenBank, ante, 524, followed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

