WHEELER v. N. Y., N. H. &. H. R'D CO.
Statement of the Case.

WHEELER v. NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN AND HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 534. Submitted May 14,1900.-Decided May 28, 190D.
Under a statute of Connecticut, a contract was entered into between the
city of Bridgeport and a railroad company providing that the city should
pay one sixth of the expense of abolishing grade crossings, and also of
increasing the tracks of the company from two to four. Defendants,
whose lands were sought to be condemned for this purpose, objected
upon the ground that the agreement of the city to pay one sixth of the
expense of increasing the number of tracks was a practical donation by
the city to the railroad company in violation of the state constitution,
and was also a taking of their property without due process of law under
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. Held, that the
Supreme Court of the State having decided that the right to condemn
the land did not depend upon the obligation of the city to pay a part of
the expenses, and that the defendants could not prevent a condemnation
by showing that the company might not afterwards obtain a reimbursement from the city, and also that the defendants, not alleging that they
were taxpayers or specially interested, were not in any position to question the validity of the proceedings, it followed that their property was
not taken without due process of law.

THis was a motion to dismiss the writ of error, and in default
thereof to affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of Errors
of Connecticut.

The case originated in an application by the railroad company to the judge of the Superior Court to appoint appraisers
to estimate the damages that might arise to the plaintiff in
error from the taking of certain real estate in the city of
Bridgeport, for the purpose of carrying out an agretment
between the railroad company and the city of Bridgeport for
the abolition of grade crossings. This agreement, which was
entered into under the provisions of an act of the General
Assembly, "providing for the abolition of grade crossings in
Bridgeport," provided the manner, plans, method and time in
VOL. CLXXVIII-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which the grade crossings should be abolished, and the proportion of the cost thereof to be borne by the city of Bridgeport
and the railroad company-the proportion of such cost to be
paid by the city being one sixth and that by the railroad company five sixths, provided the total cost to be paid by the city
should not exceed the sum of four hundred thousand dollars.
A demurrer to the application of the railroad company having been overruled, and a special defence in the answer having
been stricken out as irrelevant and impertinent, an order was
made appointing the appraisers. An appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of Errors, which affirmed the judgment of the
judge of the Superior Court, and defendant sued out this writ
of error, which defendant in error moves to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction, or to affirm, upon the ground that the question
upon which the jurisdiction depends is frivolous.
.A1r". William D. Bish op, Jr., for the motion.
.Ab'. Robert E. DeForestand Mr. George P. Carrollopposing.
MR. JusTIOE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Plaintiffs assign as error that, in view of the fact that, by
the agreement between the city and the railroad company, it
was provided that the city should pay one sixth of the entire
cost of the land required for the constrution of a four-track
road, as well as of all damages resulting from the changes of
grade, there would be a reimbursement to the company for
expenseg in doing work and acquiring land not necessary or
germane to the work of eliminating crossings at grade of the
two present main tracks over the highways; and that, under
these circumstances, the condemnation of defendants' property
will be in furtherance of a scheme, whereby the city of Bridgeport will contribute and donate td such company the credit,
money and property of the city, and of its property owners
and taxpayers, in aid of the railroad company, contrary to the
provisions of the twenty-fifth amendment to the constitution of

WHEELER v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the State of Connecticut, and the taking and condemnation of
said Wheeler and Howes' said property will be a taking thereof
without due process of law, etc.
1. We cannot say that there is no Federal question in this
case. In their demurrer to the application of the railroad company, plaintiffs in error relied upon the unconstitutionality of
this special act of the Connecticut legislature as contravening
the twenty-fifth amendment to the constitution of the State,
and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.
The amendment to the state constitution provides as follows:
"That no County, City, Town, Borough, or other municipality,
shall ever subscribe to the capital stock of any railroad corporation, or become a purchaser of the bonds, or make donation
to, or loan its credit, directly or indirectly, in aid of any such
corporation."
The claim was, not that it was unconstitutional for the city
of Bridgeport to pay for a part of the work for grade crossing
elimination, but that the pay for work for the benefit of the
company, in the construction of a four-track road, which was
not necessary or germane to the work of grade crossing elimination, would be contrary to the above amendment to the state
constitution; and therefore that, as the land of Wheeler and
Howes was to be taken to carry out a part of the project, to
be paid for in part by the city, not necessary or germane to the
work of grade crossing elimination, their property would be
taken without due process of law. The substance of the defence
seems to have been that the land was not taken solely for the
purpose of abolishing grade crossings, but also for the purpose
of laying two extra tracks, and making the road through the
city of Bridgeport a four-track road instead of an ordinary
double track. It seems that the railroad company had laid a
complete four-track road all the way from INew York to New
Haven, except in that section which lay in the city of Bridgeport-a distance of more than four miles, and crossing at grade
twenty-four streets, some of them the most frequented in the
whole city. There is no doubt that the special act did authorize an increase in the number of tracks, and there was some
reason for saying that in requiring the city to pay one sixth of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the expenses incurred for this purpose, it was making a donation in aid of the railroad company in violation of the twentyfifth amendment to the state constitution, and as Wheeler and
Hlowes were property owners and taxpayers of the city, they
were incidentally affected by this, and therefore their lands were
illegally taken.
2. But assuming that there was color for the motion to dismiss, we are clearly of the opinion that the decree of the Supreme Court of Errors should be affirmed. That court had
already decided, not only that the legislature might compel the
removal of grade crossings and the payment of the.expenses
therefor, either by the railroad company or by the city, or by
both, Tfroodruff v. Catlin, 5 Conn. 277, (a case arising under a
former act,) and that a statute compelling the removal of grade
crossings, as well as imposing upon the railroad the entire
expense of the change uf grade, was constitutional, ff. F. &
-. E. R. R. Co.'s Appeal, 58 Conn. 532; ff. Y.&
. E.
R.
?.
v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; but the very act in question in this
case has also been held to be constitutional. .3looney v. Clark,
69 Conn. 241. That court also held in this case that, whether
the land be taken only for the purpose of abolishing grade
crossings or to straighten its line and construct additional tracks,
the taking is in either case for railroad purposes and for a public use. It also held that the right of the railroad company to
condemn defendants' property did not depend upon the validity
of any part of the special act of 1895, since by the resolution of
the board of directors of the company in July, 1896, and by the
approval of the commissioners in June, 1897, both of which were
alleged in the application, the railroad company was entitled
under section 346 of the General Statutes to take the land for
the uses named in the resolution.
The plaintiffs in error contended before the Supreme Court
of Errors, as they contend here, that the agreement and order
made in pursuance thereof, imposing upon the city a proportion
of the expense of constructing the two additional elevated tracks,
not necessary to the work of eliminating grade crossings, violated the state constitution as well as the Constitution of the
United States. "But," said the court, "if the railroad company

WHEELER v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R'D. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

desires to take this property as one step in carrying out the proposed plan, the defendants cannot prevent it upon the ground
that the company may not afterwards be able to obtain reimbursement from the city. The ability of the defendants to
obtain payment of their damages does not depend upon the right
of the railroad company to collect a part of it from the city.
Before taking the land the company must compensate the defendants." It was further said: That even if the employment
of appraisers had established the liability of the city to pay a
proportion of the expense of laying the additional tracks, such
a defence was not open to the defendants, because they have
not alleged that they were taxpayers or had any right or authority to represent the city in such proceedings, or that they
will be injured in any respect from the payment by the city of
its part of the expense of the work as fixed by the agreement
and order. '. But," says the court, "the appointment of appraisers in this proceeding does hot affect the question of the
liability of the city to pay that part of the expense ordered by
the commissioners. The right of the railroad company to have
appraisers appointed and to take this property does not depend
upon the obligation of the city to pay a one sixth part of the
expense of the whole, or of any portion of the work of this
undertaking. The two purposes of the act of 1895 were: First,
the removal of all existing grade crossings in Bridgeport, and
the construction, in the most feasible manner, after considering
the interest of the public, the rights, responsibilities and duties
of the railroad company, and of the city, and the rights of other
parties concerned, of a four-track railroad through the city, in
such a way as to avoid crossing any highway at grade; and,
second, a just apportiohment of the cost among those who ought
to bear the expense of performing the work in the manner determined. These two purposes are so far distinct and separable, and are so intended to be by the act, that neither the right
of the railroad company to perform the work according to the
plans approved by commissioners, nor the power of the commissioners to compel its performance, depends upon a previous
apportionment of the expense between the parties who should
bear it. Section 12, as we have already said, provides that if
no agreement shall have been made as authorized by section 2,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the commissioners, after the work shall have been completed,
shall apportion the entire expense among the proper parties."
The court intimated no opinion as to whether the agreement
and order fixing the proportionate part of the entire expense
to be paid by the city was of doubtful validity. It thought
the question was one which could not properly be raised in this
proceeding.
The court held in substance (1) that the right to have appraisers appointed did not depend upon the obligation of the
city to pay a part of the expense, and that defendants could
not prevent a condemnation by showing that the company
might not afterwards be able to obtain reimbursement from the
city; and (2) that the defendants, not alleging that they were
taxpayers, or specially interested, were not in a position to question the validity of the proceedings. If this be so, it requires
no argument to show that they are not in a position to contend
that their property has been taken without due process of laWv.
If the court had gone farther, and held that the taking of defendants' property for the purpose, not only of abolishing grade
crossings, but of enabling the railroad company to lay additional tracks, was not a violation of the twenty-fifth amendment to the state constitution, that would have been exclusively a local question, and would have involved no question of
an unlawful taking of defendants' property within the Fourteenth Amendment.
If the fact that the city of Bridgeport contributed to the expense of abolishing grade crossings, and incidentally thereto,
to the construction .of additional tracks, does no violence to the
constitutional provision that no city shall make a donation in
aid of a railroad corporation, as held by the Supreme Court of
Connecticut, much less does it make a case of taking the property of petitioners, whether as property owners or as taxpayers,
without due process of law.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Errors of the State of
Connecticut is, therefore,
Afli-med.
MR. JUsTmoE

in the decision.

GnAY did not sit in this case and took no part

