McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

it can be certain that the railroad company has acquired an
indefeasible title to any tract.
lfor these reasons, we are of the opinion that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State of Utah is erroneous, and it
must be reversed and the case remanded to that court for
further.proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
WHITE dissented.

and MR. JUSTICE

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED .STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 253. Argued April 119,20,1900.-Decided May 21,1900.

The decision in Fsk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, that the words in the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, with regard to the removal of causes from
a state court, (as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,) "at any
time before the trial thereof," used in regard-to removals "from prejudice or local influence," were used by Congress with reference to the
construction put by this court on similar language in the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, and are to receive the same construction, which
required the petition to be filed before or at the term at which the cause
could first be tried, and before the trial thereof.

MATTiE Lee Fennell, a citiz6n of the county of Madison,
State of Alabama, died on the fifth day of August, 1897, leaving a will executed by her December 11, 1895, in which she
*devised and bequeathed all her property, real, personal or mixed,
to her mother, Mrs. M. E. Fennell, for life, and on her death to
Llewellyn Jordan of the State of Mississippi. The will specifically provided that if the mother should die before the death
of the testatrix, Llewellyn Jordan should take. Said Llewellyn
Jordan and Walter E. Jordan, a citizen of Madison County,
Alabama, were nominated and appointed executors of the will,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

to act as such without bond. The mother died in 1896.
February 9, 1897, Walter E. Jordan, one of the executors
named, presented his petition to the Probate Court of Madison
County, Alabama, together with the original will, to have said
will admitted to probate. The petition stated that the sister
of testatrix, Ada F. McDonnell, resident of Madison County,
was her next of kin, and would have been her only heir had
she (lied intestate; that Llewellyn Jordan was temporarily residing at Washington, D. C.; that the attesting witnesses resided at Huntsville, Alabama; and prayed that a date might
be set for the hearing of the petition and due notice thereof be
given as required by law to the next of kin of said deceased,
and that such decrees, orders and other- proceedings might be
had and made in the premises as might be necessary to effect
the due probate of said will according to law.
On the llth day of February, 1897, Ada F. McDonnell, a
sister, and only heir at law, of Mattie Lee Fennell, filed in the
Probate Court her written contest of the alleged will, based on
certain grounds therein set forth, and demanded a trial by jury.
April 1, 1897, a jury was empanelled to try the contest, and
an issue was then made up by the court between Walter E.
Jordan, as plaintiff, and Ada F. McDonnell, as defendant, and
the trial entered upon. On April 15, 1897, after having considered the case, the jury came into court and reported that
they were unable to agree upon a verdict, whereupon the jury
were discharged, and the case was continued.
May 28, 1897, Walter E. Jordan applied to the Probate Court
to amend his petition by alleging: "That the said Llewellyn
Jordan is the sole legatee and devisee under said will, and is
the person really interested in defending the validity of said
will and in answering and defending the contest filed in said
court to annul and make invalid said will; " and to add to the
prayer of his petition the following: "FPetitioner prays that
citation and all proper notice be given the said Llewellyn Jordan of this case and contest, and that he be made a party defendant to this petition."
The following order was entered -thereon by the Probate
Court, August 3, 1897: "In the matter of the petition of W. E.

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

Jordan to make Llewellyn Jordan party defendant to this case,
and that citation and all proper notice be given said Llewellyn
Jordan as such, heretofore filed with the papers in this case,
May 28th, 1897, was set for hearing this August 3rd, 1897.
This day. argued by Shelby and Walker for proponent and
Richardsbn and Cooper for contestant. Motion overruled and
amendment not allowed, and for reason good and satisfactory
to this court the further hearing of this contest continued to
Sept. 3rd, 1897."
On the 4th of August, Llewellyn Jordan, without leave, filed
with the clerk of the Probate Court a paper styled an "answer," which commenced as follows: ' In the matter of the
contest of the probate of the will of Mattie Lee Fennell comes
Llewellyn Jordan, named in the amendment to the petition in
this cause filed by Walter E. Jordan, and intervenes in said
proceeding and files this his answer to the contest of Ada F.
McDonnell ;" and on that day the Probate Court entered the
following order: "In this cause a paper, purporting to be an
intervention on behalf of Llewellyn Jordan, having been indorsed ' filed ' by the clerk of this court, without the knowledge
of the court, and said paper being so indorsed filed without an
order authorizing said Llewellyn Jordan to intervene herein,
and the motion made by Walter E. Jordan, the proponent,
praying that said Llewellyn Jordan b6 made a party defendant
hereto, on the 3rd day of August, 1897, being overruled and
disallowed, it is therefore ordered that said paper purporting to
be an intervention of said Llewellyn Jordan be stricken from
the files in this cause."
August 5, 1897, Walter E. Jordan, the proponent of the will,
filed in the Probate Court a renunciation of his right to have
letters testamentary issued to him, and asked that the same be
issued to Llewellyn Jordan, couched in these terms: "The undersigned, Walter E. Jordan, named in the will of Mattie Lee
Fennell as one of her executors, renounces his right to have 16tters testamentary issued to him. He desires that the said will
shall be probated, but that letters testamentary should issue
alone to the:co-executor named in said will, Llewellyn Jordan."
August 12, 1897, Llewellyn Jordan filed his petition in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern Division
of the Northern District of Alabama to remove to that court
the matter of the proceedings to probate and to contest the will
of Mattie Lee Fennell, then pending in the Probate Court, on
the ground that from prejudice and local influence, he could
not obtain justice in the Probate Court, or any other state court.
The Circuit Court, on the same day, entered an exarte order
removing the cause from the Probate Court of Madison County,
Alabama, to that court. M[rs. McDonnell made motions in the
Circuit Court to remand the cause to the Probate Court, and to
dismiss and strike from the files the petition of Llewellyn -Jordan for the removal of the proceedings and cause from the state
court.
Among the grounds assigned for the motion to remand were
that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of a proceeding to
probate a will; that Llewellyn Jordan was not a party defendant "in any suit, proceeding or controversy in the Probate Court
of Madison County, Alabama, relating to the matter of the probate of the will of Mattie Lee Fennell, deceased," and the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction by virtue of the petition for
removal; that the proceeding to establish the will was not a
separate but a single controversy; that the application for removal was not made in time, or before the trial of the cause in
the state court; and that the application for removal was made
too late.
The Circuit Court maintained jurisdiction, and overruled each
of the motions.
A trial was subsequently had in the Circuit Court, which directed a verdict in favor of Llewellyn Jordan, contestee. A
verdict was returned accordingly, and thereupon the court,
November 8, 1898, entered this judgment: "It is therefore considered by the court that the contest of Ada F. McDonnell of
the last will and testament of Mattie Lee Fennell, deceased, and
the several grounds of said contest be, and the same are hereby,
overruled and denied. It is further considered and adjudged
by the court that the contestee, Llewellyn Jordan, have and
recover of the contestant, Ada F. McDonnell, the costs in this
behalf expended, for which, if not otherwise paid, an execution
may issue."

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

Under the same date the court certified to this court the following questions of jurisdiction:
"1. Whether this court has jurisdiction to hear and determine
the matters of controversy shown in the record between said
Llewellyn Jordan and Ada F. McDonnell.
"2. Whether this court has jurisdiction to hear and determine the cause removed to this court from the state court,
wherein it is squght to establish and probate the will of Mattie
Lee Fennell, deceased, latb a resident citizen of the county of
Madison, State of Alabama.
"3. Whether this court has jurisdiction to remove the proceeding shown in the record from the state probate court upon
the petition of the said Llewellyn Jordan.
"1. Whether this court acquired jurisdiction of the matters
in controversy between the said Llewellyn Jordan and Ada F.
McDonnell upon the petition of the said Llewellyn Jordan to
remove the said proceedings from the state probate court to this
court.
"5. Whether this court has jurisdiction to entertain the petition of the said Llewellyn Jordan for the removal of said proceeding to this court after the mistrial of said cause in the state
probate -court as shown by the record filed herein.
"6. Whether this court has jurisdiction to entertain the petition of said Llewellyn Jordan to remove said cause from the
state probate court to this court after a jury had been empanelled in the state probate court, the trial entered upon, the failure of the jury to agree, and a mistrial of said cause entered in
said probate court.
"'7. Whether this court has jurisdiction of the petition of said
Llewellyn Jordan to remove said cause from said probate court
to this court after filing in said probate court an answer to the
contest of said will."
A writ of error was applied f6r and allowed March 15, 1899,
and the record showed an order on March 16 adjourning "the
Circuit and District Courts of the Uiited States for the Northern District and Northern Division" 8ine die, On the 4th of
April, 1899, the judge of the Circuit Court entered on the certificate a statement that though it was dated Noverber 8, 1898,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

it was actually signed "on the 15th day of March, 1899, at
Birmingham, Alabama."
Xi. Lawrence Co&qper for plaintiff in error.
Richardon was on his brief.

Xr. William

.Nr. Richard W. Walker for defendant in error. -Y. Heber J -May was on his brief.
M R. CHIEF

after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
JUSTICE FULLER,

The question of jurisdiction was certified before the adjournment of the term of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District and Northern Division of Alabama, at
which term the judgment was entered, .and we decline, under
the circumstances disclosed, to discuss what the effect might
have been if the certificate had shown on its face that it was in
fact signed in the Southern Division of the District within
which the presiding judge had jurisdiction.
Petitions for removal and motions to remand are matters of
record proper. Ordinarily papers filed in support thereof are
not so unless made part thereof by bill of exceptions, though
sometimes this is otherwise. England v. Gebhardt, 112 U. S.'
502; Bronon v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410; Railroad Company
v. -Yoontz, 104 U. S.5.
We are not concerned here with the proofs as to prejudice or
local influence.
By section 4272 of the Civil Code of Alabama, it is providedthat: "Upon the death of a testator, any executor, devisee, or
legatee named in the will, or any person-interested in the estate,
may have the will proved before the proper Probate Court."
As Mrs.Fennell was an inhabitant of Madison County at the time
of her death, the Probate Court of that county was the proper
Probate Court, ยง 4273; and as Walter E. Jordan and Llewellyn
Jordan were named executors, and Llewelyn Jordan was the
sole devisee and legatee, either of them could propound the will
for probate. By section 4284: it was provided that: "Whenever

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

an application is made to prove a will in this State, at least ten
days' notice must be given to the widow and next of kin, or to
either of them, residing and being within the State, before such
application is heard." In this case Mrs. McDonnell was the
next of kin and sole heir at law, and was duly notified.
Section 4287 provides that: "A will, before the probate
thereof, may be contested by any person interested therein, or
by any person who, if the testator had died intestate, would
have been an heir or distributee of his estate,- by filing in the
court where it is offered for probate allegations in writing that
the will was not duly executed, or of the unsoundness of mind
of the testator, or of any other valid objection thereto; and
thereupon an issue must be made up, under the direction of the
court, between the person making the application, as plaintiff,
and the person contesting the validity of the will, as defendant;
and such issue must, on application of either party, be tried by
a jury."
Section 4298 reads that: "Any person interested in any will,
who has not contested the same under the provisions of this
article, may, at any time within eighteen months after the
admission of such will to probate in this State, contest the validity'of the same by bill in chancery, in the district in which
such will was probated, or in a district in which a material
defendant resides."
Mrs. McDonnell filed her allegations in writing contesting
the will on the grounds that it was not signed by the subscribing witnesses in the presence of the alleged testatrix; nor by
testatrix in the presence of the subscribing witnesses; nor was
the alleged will signed by the witnesses at the request of the
testatrix; nor by the subscribing witnesses in the presence of
each other and in the presence of the testatrix; that the testatrix at the time the alleged will was signed and executed was
of unsound mind and memory and not mentally capable of
making a will; that the execudion of the will was procured by
fraud and undue influence of Llewellyn Jordan; and that the
paper p,'opoutided was not the last will and testament of Mrs.
Fennell; and she demanded a jury trial. The cause was duly
set down for trial as between W. E. Jordan, proponent, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Ada F. McDbnnell, contestant, and was subsequently tried, the
trial continuing some days, and on April 15, 1897, the jury being
unable to agree upon a verdict, was discharged.
After this mistrial Walter E. Jordan applied to the Probate
Court to allow him to make Llewellyn Jordan a party defendant to his petition that. the will be admitted to probate. As
Llewellyn Jordan was a.co-executor, and the sole devisee and
legatee, the Probate Court, on the third of August, declined to
grant the application. If Llewellyn Jordan had applied to be
formally admitted as co-proponent, it must be assumed that he
would have been permitted to become such of record, but he
made no such application. Then, on August 4, the paper purporting to be an "answer"' of Llewellyn Jordan was filed by
the clerk, without leave, or knowledge of the court, and on the
same day was struck from the files as improvidently placed
thereon. The succeeding day, August 5, Walter E. Jordan
renounced the executorship, and asked that letters issue to his
co-executor, Llewellyn Jordan. August 12 the order of removal
was entered by the Circuit Court.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that the proceeding in
the Probate Court of Madison County was simply a proceeding
to establish and probate the will and as such was not a "suit
of a civil nature, at law or in equity," and therefore not removable; that if the proceeding were otherwise removable, Llewellyn Jordan was not a defendant and could not remove; and
that the application for removal came too late.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Alabama recognize
that an application for the probate of a will is a proceeding in
rem, but it is held that it becomes a suit in r parte.s where
there is a contest, that is, "a suit between the party alleging
the existence of the'will and the contestant." And that the
result of the statutory provisions is to afford two modes of contest, in the Probate Court before the will has been proved, or
in the Chancery Court after probate by the institution of a suit
by those who were not parties to a contest in the Probate Court.
Knox v. Paull,95 Ala. 505, and 6ases cited.
Undoubtedly the courts of the United States possess no jurisdiction over an exparte application for the probate of a will,

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

that is, for the proof thereof in common form, which is purely
a proceeding in rem; but it is insisted by defendant in error
that, by the institution of a contest, a case of confroversy inter
partee arises, which may be removed to the Circuit Court just
as such a contest may be under the state statute removed by
change of venue from the Probate Court, where the will is
propounded, to the Probate Court of another county, and that
the judgment of the Federal court in such a case must be recognized by the Probate Court of original jurisdiction, just as
by statute the judgment of another Probate Court to which
the proceeding has been remitted is certified to that court that
the will may be probated or rejected as that judgment is for
or against the validity. Code 1896, ยง4296.
Assuming, without deciding, this to be so, the question presents itself as to the position occupied by the proponent and
the contestant, respectively, and the statute says that on a contest on admission to probate, "an issue must be made up, under the direction of the court, between the person making the
application as plaintiff, and the person contesting the validity
of the will, as defendant."
And the issue on this contest was made up by the Probate
Court of :Madison County accordingly.
Notwithstanding this, defendant in error contends that the
contestant is the real plaintiff, and that, within the meaning of
the act of Congress in respect of removals, "the contestee is a
defendant because he is brought into court against his will by
the necessity of defending his right under the will, and his involuntary presence there subjects him to the local prejudice
and influence, protection against which is the object of the
statute.'"
In this connection it is proper to say that it is obvious on
the face of these proceedings that the effort of Llewellyn Jordan to'become a party to the record was so limited to being
made such in a particular capacity as to clearly indicate that
it was with the object of making the application for removal.
But whether as co-executor or as sole legatee and devisee, his
appearance in the cause would be as proponent of, or on behalf
of the will, and'not against it, and without going into the an-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.

Opinion of the Court.

thorities as to where the burden of proof lies when a contest is
initiated as to the validity of a will, when it is presented for
probate, and even conceding that the specific provision of this
state statute may be disregarded, we are nevertheless of opinion that the application to remove came too late.
Under the statutes of Alabama, Llewellyn Jordan might
have propounded the will, either as executor or legatee. He
might have intervened as interested, if he had feared that his
co-executor, who did propound the will, would not do justice,
of which there is no pretence here. But he could not lie by,
permit the will to be propounded, a contest to be initiated, and
a trial had, and at that stage intervene and remove the case.
This was a will and testament, disposing of personal as well
as of real property; and was propounded by one of two executors named therein., The statute required notice only to the
widow and next of kin, and not to beneficiaries under the will.
There is nothing whatever in the evidence to indicate that
Llewellyn Jordan was in fact ignorant of the will, of its presentation for probate, or of the initiation of the contest. The
presumptions are against him, and he was at least so far represented by his co-executor that when he applied to come in, and
treated the case as if 'hebad come in, he took his place by intervention subject to such disabilities as to the right of removal
as then existed.
In ranri4t v. .ctnrick, 153 U. S. 192, 197, it was said:
"The act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, was intended, as this court has often recognized, to contract the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of
the United States, whether original over suits brought therein,
or by removal from the state courts. It not only amends the
act of 1875; but it allows to.none but defendants the right to
remove any case whatever, and, by new regulations of removals for prejudice or local influence, supersedes and repeals the
earlier statutes upon this subject. 24 Stat. 553 ; 25 Stat. 434;
Smith v. yon, 133 U. S.3i5; Fisk v. Henarie,1,2 U. S.459;
Tinnessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454."
In Fisk v. Ilenarie, there cited, this court ruled that the
words in the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by the act of

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. ANN ARBOR R'D CO. 239
Statement of the Case. -

August 13, 1888, "at any time before the trial thereof," -used
in regard to removals "from prejudice or local influence," require the application to remove to be filed before or at the
term at which the cause could first be tried and before the
trial thereof. Tested by that ruling this application to remove
came too late.
The judgment i -reversedand the cause remanded to the Circuit Court with directionsto remand it to the Probate Court
of JXadison County, Alabama.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. ANN
ARBOR RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE- CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 202. Argued and submitted March 19, 20, 1900.-Decided May 21,1900.

When a suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or laws of the
United States, upon the determination of which the result depends, it is
not a suit under the Constitution and laws; and it must appear on the
record, by a statement in legal and logical form, such as is required in
good pleading, that the suit is one which does really and -substantially
involve a dispute or controversy as to a right which depends on the construction of the Constitution, or some law or treaty of the United States,
before jurisdiction can be maintained on this ground.

was a bill filed in the Circuit 'Court of Benzie County,
Michigan, by the Western Union Telegraph Company against
the Ann Arbor Railroad Company, to restrain defendant from
interfering with the rights of complainant in a certain telegraph
line along defendant's railroad. The bill stated the Western
Union Telegraph Company to be "a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, and a citizen
of the said State of New York," and the Ann Arbor Railroad
Company to be "a cbrporation organized and existing, under
THIS

