HICKS v. KNOST.
Opinion of the Court.

HICKS v. KNOST.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 512. Submitted May 14,1900.

Decided May 28,1900.

A District Court of the United States has jurisdiction, by the proposed defendant's consent, but not otherwise, to entertain a bill in equity by a
trustee in bankruptcy to recover property conveyed to the defendant by
the bankrupt in fraud of the Bankrupt Act and of his creditors.
.Bardes v. Hawardei..Bank, ante, 524, followed.

THE. case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xr.CarZrles . Peck for appellant.
rfr.Frederick Hertenstein for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE. GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Ohio by a trustee in bankruptcy, appointed by that court, against a creditor of the bankrupts, to recover money to the amount of $2780, paid by the
bankrupts to the defendant, with intent to prefer the defendant
and to defraud the creditors of the bankrupts, within four
months before the institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy.
Both parties were citizens of Ohio and residents of that district. The District Court dismissed the bill, for want of jurisdiction. 94 Fed. Rep. 625. The plaifitiff appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which certified to
this court the following question:
"Has a District Court of the United States jurisdiction to
entertain a bill in equity filed by a trustee in bankruptcy, appointed by it, against a fraudulent grantee or transferee of the
bankrupt resident in its district, to recover the property belong-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ing to the estate of the bankrupt, and by him fraudulently conveyed to defendant ?
For the reasons stated in Barde8 v. Hawarden Bank, just
decided, the answer to this question must be that the District
Court has such jurisdiction by the consent of the proposed defendant, but not otherwise.
Ordered accardingly.

WHITE v. SCHLOERB.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 530. Submitted April 26,1900. -Decided

May 28, 1900.

After an adjudication in bankruptcy, an action of replevin in a state court
cannot be commenced and maintained against the bankrupt to recover
property in the possession of and claimed by the bankrupt at the time
of that adjudication, and in the possession of a referee in bankruptcy at
the time when the action of replevin is begun; and the District Court of
the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, has jurisdiction by summary
proceedings to compel the return of the property seized.

THIS was a petition in equity to the Circuit Court of Appeals

for the Seventh Circuit, under the jurisdiction conferred upon
that court by the second clause of section 24 of the Bankrupt
Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, to superintend and revise in matter
of law the proceedings in bankruptcy of the District Courts of
the United States in that circuit. 30 Stat. 553. The Circuit
Court of Appeals certified to this court the following statement
of the case and the questions of law:
"On September 13, 1899, August T. Schloerb and Eugene
B. Schickedantz, who were respectively residents and inhabitants of the Eastern District of Wisconsin, and who were copartners in trade in the said district, filed their voluntary petition in bankruptcy in the District Court of the United States
for that district. On the same day they were duly adjudged

