OCTOBER TERML, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 459. Argued December 5, 6, 7, 1899.-Decided

May 14,1900.

Knowlton v. Moore, ante, 41, and Murdock v. Ward, ante, 139, followed.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of New York, on November 20, 1899, George D. Sherman filed a complaint againstthe United States seeking to reIN

cover from said defendant the sum of $8969.02, which he
claimed had bedn unjustly exacted by John G. Ward, collector
of internal revenue for the fourteenth district of New York,
from George T. Murdock, executor of the last will of Mrs.
Jane H. Sherman, the mother of complainant, as a duty or tax
imposed by virtue of the provision of the act of June 13,1898;
that said sum of $8969.02 was deducted by the said executor
from the income due and payable under the provisions of said
will to the complainant; that the income, of which the complainant was entitled to receive an annual portion during his
life, was composed in part of United States bonds, which the
complainant avers to be, by virtue of the acts of Congress
under which they were issued, non-taxable and non-assessable
for the purposeg of taxation.
The complaint further alleged, among other things, that the
tax so imposed was void because a direct tax, not apportioned
among the States in proportion to their population; that if
said tax was not direct, but an impost, excise or duty, the same
was void, because not uniform throughout the United States;
and that it is not within the constitutional power of Congress
to levy a tax upon a right of inheritance or disposition by will
provided for by the laws of the State of New York, or to require the payment of a larger or different amount of tax from
or imposed upon a legacy or a legatee, because of the greater
wealth of the donor of such legacy, than is required when the
legacy is a gift of a testator of smaller means.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The United States, appearing by Charles H, Brown, United
States Attorney for the Northern District of New York, demurred to the complaint upon the ground that the same did
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. On
hearing the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and ordered
that the complaint be dismissed. A writ of error was allowed
to this judgment, and the cause was brought to this court.
-fr. John G. Carlisle and Mr. CharlesE. Pattersonfor plaintiffs in error.
Mr'. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE. SHIPAS, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
In so far as the contentions urged in this action are based on
the allegation that the tax imposed on the legacies left in the
will of Mrs. Jane H. Sherman is void because it is an unapportioned, direct tax, or, if not a direct tax but a duty or excise,
the same is void because not uniform throughout the United
States, or void because it is not competent to levy an inheritance or legacy tax upon property passing to legatees under the
laws of the State of New York, they have been disposed of adversely to the plaintiff, in the case of Enowlton, Executor, v.
.1ore, Collector, ante, 41, recently decided by this court.
So, too, the proposition that bonds of the United States and
the income therefrom are not lawfully taxable under an inheritance tax law of the United States, because exempted by contract from such tax, has just been decided not to be well founded,
in the case of -Jurdocke v. John G. Ward, ante, 139.
The allegation in the complaint that "it is not within the
constitutional power of Congress to require the payment of a
larger or different amount of tax from or imposed upon a legacy or a legatee because of the greater wealth of the donor of
such legacy than is required when the legacy is the gift of a
testator of smaller means," need not be considered, because this
court has held, in the case of Knowlton, Executor, v. Moore,
that, upon a proper construction of the act of June 13,1898, the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

amount of the inheritance or legacy tax levied thereunder is
measured by the amount of the legacy 6r distributive share passing under the laws of the State, and not by the amount of the
estate of the testator or of the deceased owner.
As, however, it appears in this record that the taxes actually
levied and paid on the legacies left by the will of Mrs. Sherman
were computed upon the mistaken assumption that the amount
of the estate of the testatrix was the measure of the tax, and
not the amount of the respective legacies, the complainant is
entitled to be repaid the excess thus imposed, upon his legacy.
As we have reversed the judgment in the case of .furdoc, as
Executor of -Mrs.Sherman,v. The Collector,and have remanded
that case to the Circuit Court of the Southern District of New
York, in order that the erroneous computation may be corrected, and as thus what is coming to the plaintiff in error, upon
such correction being made, will be recovered by Murdock as
executor and trustee under the will of Mrs. Sherman, and thereby
and in that case the plaintiff in error will be indemnified, he
needs no further proceeding in his suit in the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of New York. Lest, however, the judgment dismissing his complaint may embarrass his right to claim
indemnity from the executor, we shall reverse this judgment,
and it is so ordered.
Reversed.
MR. JusTICE WHrE

dissented in respect to the taxability of

the bonds.
MR. TusTrcE PEcxaAM

took no part in the decision of the case.

