CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO v. HOWARD.

153

Statement of the Case.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
HOWARD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMILBIA.
No.247. Argued April 17, 18, 1900.-Decided May 21,1900.
The wife of the defendant in error, while travelling from Louisville to Washington on a through ticket, in a car of the plaintiff in error, and on a train
conducted by his agents, was run off the track and down a bank in consequence of the weakness of a wheel which might have been known, and
suffered a serious and lasting injury, for which an action was brought to
recover compensation. The defence set up that at the time the accident
happened the train was managed by a Connecticut company to whom the
road had been leased. Held, that that fact would not bar a recovery;
that if notwithstanding the execution of the lease the plaintiff in error,
through its agents and servants, managed and conducted and controlled
the train to which the accident happened, it would be responsible for that
accident.
THE railroad company seeks by this writ of error to reverse
a judgment obtained against it at a trial term of the Supreme
Court of, the District of Columbia in favor of defendants in
error, which judgment has been affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District.
The defendants in error are husband and wife, and the action
was brought by them to recover damages alleged to have been
sustained by the wife because the car in which she was riding
ran off the track while forming part of a train in transit from
Louisville, Kentucky, to the city of Washington, D. C. The
accident occurred during the night of November 16, 1886, at a
place called Soldier, in the State of Kentucky, and about 60
miles west of the east line of the State, and while the train was
running on the rails of the Elizabethtown, Lexington and Big
Sandy Railroad Company, which was a Kentucky corporation.
The amended declaration of the plaintiffs below alleged that
the train on which the wife was a passenger was operated and
conducted by the agents of the plaintiff in error, and that the
plaintiff in error was managing and operating a line of railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

between the cities of Louisville, in the State of Kentucky, and
Washington city, in the District of Columbia, and upon said
line of railway it was a common carrier of passengers for hire;
that on the 18th of November, 1886, the plaintiff, Laura P.
Howard, purchased from the agents of the defendant, at the
city of Louisville, a ticket entitling her to a passage upon the
railway from the city of Louisville to the city of Washington,
and the defendant, it was alleged, thereupon became bound to
safely carry and transport her from the city of Louisville to the
city of Washington, but the defendant did not carry or transport her afely, and-that near the town of Soldier, in the State
of Kentucky, by the unskillfillness, carelessness and wrongful
neglect and mismanagement of defendants' agents in dharge of
said train, the sleeping car in which she was riding left the
track, and went down an embankment and was demolished, and
she was badly wounded and injured, and that by reason of these
injuries she suffered great pain, and has been rendered permanently unable to do any business.
The defendant took issue upon these allegations, and the case
went to trial. It has been twice tried, and upon the first trial,
when all the evidence was in, the court directed a verdict for
the defendant on the ground that no liability on its part had
been shown for the accident in question. Upon apl~eal to the
Court of Appeals of the District that court reversed the judgment, 11 App. D. C. 300, and granted a new trial. A retrial
was had, and the jury found a verdict in favor of the plaintiff,
upon which judgment was entered, and on appeal it has been
affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 14 App. D. C. 262.
.Mr. Leigh Robinson for plaintiff in error.
Mfr. R. Ross Perry for defendants in error. .A r. James
Francis Smith and Mfr. R?. Ross Perry, Jr., were with him on
the brief.
Mm..
TusTIcE PEoK0Am, after stating the above facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The injuries sustained by Mrs. Howard, as shown by the evi-

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. HOWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

dence, are very serious, and undoubtedly permanent. The accident happened at night, the car in which she was sleeping left
the rail and went over an embankment about-thirty feet high,
and was broken to pieces. She was released from the car and
taken to a cottage by the wayside, and subsequently was given
a berth in a sleeping car and brought to Washington.
On the trial she was sworn as a witness, and testified that
the disease was evidently progressing, because she could not sit
up as long; that she could not walk any distance; could not
ride in the street cars without great suffering; that she suffered
in various ways a great deal, in her head and in her spine, and
was never free from pain. The suffering in her head was at
the base of the brain, and if she wanted to see anything back
of her she had to turn her entire body; she could not-turn her
head either way. She said she had been under the doctor's
care most of the time during the past eleven years up to the
time of the trial.
Dr. Chrystie, a specialist in spinal diseases, testified on the
trial that Mrs. Howard placed herself under his treatment early
in 1887, and had been under his treatment ever since. He said
that she was suffering from an incurable spinal affection, which
was progressive, occasioning great suffering and almost total
disability. The witness had contrived and made for her an
apparatus grasping the hip and extending up to the shoulders
and giving'support in front, which steadies the back as a broken
bone would be steadied, and this gives her partial relief, but the
disease is located so low down, so much superincumbence of
weight above, that it does not give her complete relief. The
apparatus is made of steel, and the doctor said should be worn
constantly, and she should sleep in it at night. It is necessary
for her to wear it every hour for comfort, as well as for the
protection of her backbone. The disease is progressing slowly,
and, if it had not been for this spinal assistance, he thought she.
would have had complete paralysis.
At the time of the accident she was a clerk in the Agricultural Department at Washington, but since that time has been
compelled to give up her position, and has been unable to do
any work.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The probable cause of the accident, as shown by the evidence
given by the plaintiffs, was an imperfect flange on one of the
wheels of the sleeping car in which Mrs. Howard was riding.
It did not appear that a careful inspection could not have discovered the defect. There was evidence also given as to the
traiui being driven at a reckless rate of speed at the time. We
think there was sufficient evidence of negligence to carry the
case to the jury.
The most important question, that of the liability of the defendant company for the consequences of an accident on the
road of another company, arises upon the evidence now to be
considered.
In order to sustain their claim the plaintiffs gave evidence
showing the following facts: The Elizabethtown, Lexington
and Big Sandy Railroad Company, hereinafter called the Kentucky company, was incorporated by an act of the legislature
of Kentucky, approved January. 29, 18.69, for the purpose of
building a railroad froyia Elizabethtown to a point on the Big
Sandy River at or within 20 miles of its mouth, all within the
State of Kentucky. By a subsequent act the company was
authorized to sell the railroad or lease the same whenever it
might be to the interest of the company to do so. The Big
Sandy River is the boundary line between the States of West
Virginia and Kentucky.
At this time the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company,
the plaintiff in error, (hereinafter called the Virginia company,)
or its predecessor, had been incorporated by an act of the legislature of Virginia, and was operating its railroad from Phoebus,
a station about a mile east of Fortress Monroe, in Virginia, to
Huntington, in the State of West Virginia, and about eight
miles east of the Big Sandy River.
In 1877 the legislature of West Virginia passed an act providing for a terminus for the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway on
that river, and for the building of a bridge over it so as to connect with the road of the Kentucky corporation. That corporation had not then built its road east of Mount Sterling, a
place some distance west of the river, and on November 12,
1879, the Virginia and Kentucky corporations entered into an

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO v. HOWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

agreement, by which the Kentucky corporation was to complete
its railroad from Mount Sterling east to the river, and thereby
form a connection with the road of the'Virginia company, and
in consideration thereof the latter company was to complete its
road from the station at Huntington to and across the river,
and allow the Kentucky corporation the free and undisputed
use of its railroad from the westerly bank, and across the river
to the depot of the Virginia corporation in the city of Huntington, for the term of five years from the date of the compleo
tion of the road as stated.
Pursuant to the agreement this extension from Huntington
west to the river was completed early in 1882, and at that time
the Kentucky corporation had also completed its road from
Mount Sterling east to the river, and had also a running arrangement over the Louisville and Nashville Railroad into the
city of Louisville.
During- these times Mr. C. P. Huntington was very largely
interested and was the controlling spirit in a number of railroads situated both east and west of the Mississippi. He had
built many new lines and extended many old ones, and had a
plan for bringing into practically one management a line of
railroad extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific. He was
also desirous of organizing into one line his lines east of the
Mississippi River, consisting of the Virginia company, the Kentucky company and the Chesapeake and Ohio and Southwestern
Railroad Company.
After the completion of the road of the Virginia company
from Huntington to the west side of the river and its connection with the Kentucky corporation at that point, an arrangement was made between the two corporations by which they
were operated substantially as a continuous system. They
were operated together by one general manager, under verbal
directions from Mr. Huntington, who was president of the Virginia company, and owned a controlling amount of the stock
of the Kentucky company. Under that arrangement the Virginia company "operated and maintained the line of railroad
for and on account of the Elizabethtown, Lexington and Big
Sandy Railroad Company, mostly west of the Big Sandy River,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court,

to Lexington, and included in that also the eight miles of track
between the west bank of the river and Huntington. They
operated it for and on account of the Elizabethtown,, Lexington
and Big Sandy Railroad Company, keeping an account on the
books of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company of all
receipts of every character between Lexington and Huntington, including also the Louisville connection." This was in the
early part of 1882. The arrangement continued, as testified to
by one of the witnesses, who Was an officer of the defendant,
until the organization of the Newport News and Mississippi
Valley Railroad Company, (hereinafter spoken of,) after which
it is said that its officers operated the properties under the
leases hereinafter mentioned. (This statement appears to be
merely the conclusion of the witness from the other facts in the
case.) The duration of the contract or arrangement under
which the Virginia and Kentucky roads were operated as a continuous system was to be five years from the date of the completion of the road, which was in the early part of 1882, and
that would have made the arrangement continue until 1887, a
period subsequent to the happening of the accident. The witness supposed that the organization of the Newport News and
Mississippi Valley Railroad Company terminated the contract
by force of the lease above referred to. He stated that it was
'terminated in the same manner in which it was made, by the
direction of Mr. Huntington; that Mr. Huntington directed
Mr. Smith, the general manager, to operate the properties in
accordance with the leases after they had been made. Mr. Huntington desired to extend, complete and bring his different railroads under one management, that of himself.
For the purpose of being able the more easily to accomplish
this object, Mr. Huntington procured from the legislature of
the State of Connecticut an act, approved March 27, 1884, incorporating the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, which
was therein authorized and empowered to contract for and
acquire, by purchase or otherwise, and buy, hold, own, lease,
etc-, railroads, railroad bridges, engines, cars, rolling stock and
other railway equipment, 6tc., in any state or teriitory; "Provided, however, that said corporation shall not have power to

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. HOWARD.

159

Opinion of the Court

make joint stock with, lease, hold, own or operate any railroad
within the State of Connecticut."
On March 19, 1885, the legislature of Connecticut changed
the name of the Southern Pacific Company to that of the Newport News and Mississippi Valley Company, with all the powers and privileges and subject to all the liabilities existing under
the former name.
On January 29, 1886, the Kentucky corporation and the
Newport News and Mississippi Valley Company, (the Connee
ticut corporation,) entered into an agreement of lease, by which
the Kentucky corporation leased its road to the Connecticut
corporation for 250 years from the first day of February, 1886,
at a rental of $5000 per annum, and on June 15, 1886, the Virginia corporation and the Connecticut corporation also entered
into an agreement, by which the railroad of the former was
leased to the latter corporation from July 1, 1886, for 250 years,
at a yearly rental of $5000.
As Mrs. Howard's injuries were sustained in November, 1886,
on the railroad in Kentucky which had been leased to the Connecticut corporation the January previous, the plaintiff in error
herein makes the claim that it is not liable for the results of
that accident, because it did not occur on its road nor on the
road of any company for the negligent acts of whose agents it
was responsible.
Assuming that the Kentucky railroad had been leased to the
Connecticut corporation, and that the latter was, at the time
the accident occurred, actually engaged in the management of
the former, and that the train to which the accident happened
was conducted and managed by the agents of the Connecticut
company, it might then be assumed that this plaintiff in error
could not be held responsible for the result of such accident;
but the simple fact that at the time when it occurred the lease
spoken of was in existence would not conclusively bar a recovery in this case. If, notwithstanding the execution of the lease,
the plaintiff in error in fact, through its agents and servants,
managed and conducted and controlled the train to which the
accident happened, it would be responsible for that accident,
notwithstanding the existence of the lease. The evidence was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient to show that prior to the execution of the lease the
Kentucky corporation was controlled and managed by the plaintiff in error, and it was so controlled and managed by the direction of Mr. Huntington, the president of plaintiff in error. It
is claimed that this arrangement was wholly illegal, as beyond
the powers of the Virginia corporation. But if, while the Kentucky corporation was managed under such agreement, an accident had occurred by reason of the negligence of the agents
and servants of the Virginia company, it would have been liable
for the damages arising therefrom, notwithstanding the agreement or arrangement under which such control was maintained
was illegal. If the agents and servants of a corporation commit a wrong in the course of their employment and while in
the performance of an agreement of the corporation which is
ultravires, the company is liable for the wrong thus committed, notwithstanding the illegality of the agreement. National
Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 699, '70.2; Salt lake City v.
Hollister, 118 id. 256, 260; Bissell v. Railroad Company,
22 N. Y. 258; Buffett v. Railroad Company, 40 id. 168; Nims
v. .ount Ifermon Boys' Selool, 160 Mass. 177; Railroad-Compvany v. Haring,47 N. J. L. 137.
We are, therefore, brought to a consideration of the evidence
in the record, tending to show that this train was a train of the
plaintiff in error, controlled and managed by its agents and servants, for whose negligence it is liable.
The circumstances attending and leading up to the arrangement made between the Virginia and Kentucky companies in
1882, by which arrangement the former took upon itself -the
management of the Kentucky company, have been set forth
somewhat in detail in order that such facts might be viewed in
connection with the evidence as to the leases and the manner
in which the affairs of the roads were thereafter conducted, so
that the whole case could be examined to determine whether it
was proper to snbmit to the jury the main question of fact:
Who had the management and control of the train to which
the accident happened?
Evidence was given that many years prior to the execution
of the lease above referred to the Virginia company had estab-

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. HOWARD.

161

Opinion of the Court.

lished offices and an agency in the city of Washington for the
purpose of obtaining business for that company and its connections, and it had entered into some kind of running arrangements with the Virginia Midland Railway Company, whose
road extended from the city of Washington through the city of
Charlottesville, in the State of Virginia, a station on the line
of the Chesapeake and Ohio Company. After the arrangement
between the Virginia and Kentucky companies above mentioned,
if not before, the Virginia company sold tickets at Washington
through to Louisville, and vice versa, and advertised the route
in various newspapers throughout the country, especially in
Washington and Louisville, in which the route was designated
as the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad, or Route, and it also
advertised that it ran through or "solid" trains over this route.
Such advertisements were continued after the execution of the
lease up to and after the happening of this accident. There is
room in the evidence for the inference, which a jury might
draw, that the Chesapeake and Ohio Company, by these various
facts, and by such advertisements, and by the tickets which it
sold, held itself out to the public as a carrier of passengers between the two cities. There was no substantial change in the
character either of* the advertisements or of the tickets after
the execution of the leases.
If the Virginia company did in fact thus hold itself out as a
carrier of passengers between the two cities without change of
cars and by a solid train, the inference that such train was its
own, and that the servants in charge thereof were its servants,
might be based upon that fact together with the other evidence
in the case, and such inference would be for the jury.
For the sole purpose of organization, and the more readily to
enable Mr. Huntington to work out his scheme-for one continuous line from the Atlantic to the Pacific, he procured the acts
of. the Connecticut legislature incorporating the Newport News
and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company. The capital stock
of the corporation was fixed at a million dollars, divided into
shares of one hundred dollars each, and the act provided that
whenever five hundred thousand dollars should be suibscrib &--id
ten per centum of the subscription paid in cash, th stockholders
VOL. CLXXVIII-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

might organize the corporation, which might then proceed to
do the business authorized by the act. An affidavit of the secretary of the company attached to the copy of the articles of
association, filed in the office of the secretary of State of West
Virginia, showed the acceptance of this charter by the vote of
a majority of the corporation and the subscription of five hundred thousand dollars to the capital stock on May 10, 1884, and
the payment in cash of ten per centum at the time of such subscriptions. There was no proof of a dollar's worth of the capital stock ever having been issued, although officers of the company seem to have been elected. Mr. Huntington was the
president of the corporation, and the officers of the Virginia
corporation appear to have been also elected or to have act.1
as officers of the Connecticut corporation. After the execution
of the leases already mentioned there seems to have been no
actual change in the personnel of the officers of the leased road,
nor in the actual management or control thereof. The same
hands continued apparently in the same employment. There
is no proof of the payment of a single dollar on account of
these leases, but nevertheless a formal transfer was alleged to
have been made to the lessee of the rolling stock and equipment
of the Virginia and Kentucky corporations. The evidence is
sufficient to admit the inference that it was a merely formal
although possibly valid lease for the purpose of organization,
which would render it easier to accomplish the formation of a
continuous line, which Mr. Huntington had at heart. The same
offices in the city of Washington were retained after the lease
as before. The same individuals remained in the same relative
positions therein, and substantially the same advertisements
and the same kind of tickets were inserted in the newspapers
and sold at the offices after as before the execution of the leases.
The sign at the Washington office was "Chesapeake & Ohio
Railway Ticket Office," at the windows where the tickets were
sold and over the doors, and no change was made after the execution of the leases, and after that time, as well as prior thereto,
they continued to use the name of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railway and Chesapeake and Ohio Route, and the general passenger agent said that from the time he commenced in 1882 he

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. HOWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

did not think the sign was ever changed. He was under the
impression that the tickets had been changed after the execution of the leases, and that they were then issued in the name
of the Newport News and Mississippi Valley Company, but
that was a mere impression. The ticket of the plaintiff was
issued by the Virginia company, and provided for a passage
from Louisville to Washington. She had taken this route to
and from Washington several times before, and'her ticket, of
the same description; had always been honored over the whole
length of road between the two cities.
From all these facts it does not necessarily follow as a legal
conclusion that the execution of a lease from the Kentucky to
the Connecticut corporation changed the status of the former
company, and effected in and of itself a change in the operation and management of that company, so that the Virginia
company no longer managed or controlled the Kentucky company. The lease might exist, and the Virginia company might
still manage the Kentucky company or some particular through
train over that road.
Evidence was also given showing that some time after the
execution of these leases, and after the hapipening of the accident, the Virginia company went into the hands of a receiver
at the instance of Mx. Huntington, and after it came out the
Connecticut corporation went out of existence, and transferred
all the property which had come to it from the Virginia company back to that corporation, and during all that period there
was actually no change in the manner of conducting the business of the roads other than as a matter of bookkeeping, nor
in the persons who filled the offices and did the work of the
companies. The Connecticut corporation simply disappeared
from view. During the whole period it was the Chesapeake
and Ohio Route or the Chesapeake and Ohio Road that was
advertised as forming a continuous line from Washington to
Louisville and carrying passengers thereon without change of
cars and in a solid train.
Coming to the particular case of the defendants in error, the
evidence showed that the wife purchased the ticket upon which
she entered the car at Louisville; that it was a ticket headed

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Chesapeake & Ohio Railway," and that it stated that it was
good for 6ne continuous, first-class passage from Louisville,
Kentucky, to Washington, D. C., and was signed by the same
person who had theretofore been the general passenger and
ticket agent of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway. The
ticket contained a notice- that the company acted only as
agent in selling for passage over other roads; but we think
it plain that a passage over a road or on a train which was
controlled or managed by it would not be included in such
exception. .The ticket was not purchased at the regular ticket
office of the company, but from what is termed in the evidence
a "scalper," and was the half of a round trip or excursion ticket
from Washington to Louisville and return. When Mrs. Howard came to the station at Louisville for the purpose of commencing her journey she entered the train which was lettered
or had a card attached to it signifying that it was the Chesapeake and.Ohio train for Washington, and she supposed she
was on a train of that company, and after entering the sleeping car she surrendered her ticket to the conductor, and the
same was received as a.good and sufficient ticket entitling her
to transportation from Louisville to Washington. After the
accident happened, and while she was on her way to Washington in the train which had been procured for the passengers,
she was attended by a doctor, who stated that he was the chief
of the corps of surgeons of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway,
and when she told the doctor she was afraid she would lose her
position on account of the injury, she testified that the doctor
said to her, "The company will see you through," and although
he did not say the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, yet
from the conversation she had with him she understood that it
was that company for which he spoke.
Other evidence was given on this subject which it is not necessary to refer to, and when the judge came to charge the jury
he stated upon this point as follows:
"It is not enough, to render the defendant liable or to justify
you in finding that it was operating the road, to find that it sold
tickets over it. If the defendant simply sold a through ticket
from Louisville to Washington, or sold a round-trip ticket from

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. HOWARD.

165

Opinion of the Court.

Washington to Louisville and return to Washington, and the
plaintiff, Mrs. Howard, had the return part of that ticket, that
alone would not be sufficient evidence to establish the fact that
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company was operating this
Elizabethtown, Lexington and Big Sandy road. We all know
that railrod companies habitually sell tickets over their own
roads and, in connection with them, over other roads, so that
the mere sale of such a ticket, and that in itself would not be
sufficient. It must appear from all the evidence to your satisfaction, not only that this defendant sold a ticket over that
road, upon the faith of which this lady was riding at the time,
but in order to hold the defendant liable you should find that
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, as a corporation,
by its officers and agents, was operating this road; that. that
corporation, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, controlled this road, operated it, ran it, and that the trains which
ran over it were the trains of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad. Company; that they were manned by their employ~s
and controlled by their officers and agents; and, unless you
find that the evidence establishes that state of facts, you would
find for the defendant upon that point, because, in order to render the defendant liable for this accident, if it was caused by
negligence, it must appear to your satisfaction by a preponderance of evidence that the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company controlled and were running its trains over this road.
"Perhaps I may aid you a little further upon that question
without touching upon your province, for the fact is all for you.
There is evidence here tending to show that state of facts. The
plaintiffs claim that the evidence is sufficient to establish it;
that is, the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company controlled
this particular road, and was running trains over it at the time
of this accident. The defendant denies that the evidenc6 is
sufficient to establish those facts, and it is for you to determine
which one of them is right in relation to it. The defendant
also says that even if the evidence is sufficient to establish that
state of facts at any time, that state of facts did not exist at the
time of this accident; that it was ended in January, 1886, some
months prior to this accident, by the lease which the Elizabeth-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

town, Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad Company made to
the Newport News and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company.
That lease is in evidence. I suggest that you divide that subject into two heads. First, determine whether the evidence is
sufficient, when you take it all together, to establish to your
satisfaction the fact that the defendant here, the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railroad Company, was controlling and running the
Elizabethtown, Lexington and Big Sandy road prior to the execution of this lease to which I have just referred. If you find
the evidence insufficient to establish that, you might dismiss
that subject, I should say, without looking any further, and find
for the defendant. But if you find from the evidence that the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company, immediately before
the execution of this lease just mentioned, was operating and
controlling this Elizabethtown road, then you would naturally
pass to the next step, which is, whether the execution of this
lease and the facts and circumstances attendant upon it ended
that arrangement, so that the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad
Company ceased at the time of the execution of that lease to
control and run the trains upon that road."
We think this charge was in substance correct, although we
do not suppose it was necessary, in order to hold the Virginia
company liable, that it should have had the complete control
and management of the road of the Kentucky corporation. If
it had the control and management of that train it would have
been sufficient, even though the Kentucky or the Connecticut
company managed and controlled other and local trains over
the road of the Kentucky company.
The point would bb whether there was evidence enough to
submit the question to the jury as to the management and control of the train by the plaintiff in error. Upon a careful consideration of the whole case and all the various circumstances
prior to and connected with the making of these leases, we
think there was evidence sufficient to allow the jury to pass
upon that question as one of fact, and the decision of the jury
in favor of the plaintiff ought not to be disturbed.
The circumstances of the case are quite unusual. The evidence shows that in each of the three corporations there was

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. HOWARD.
Opinion of the Court.

but one controlling and guiding hand; that all the steps taken
were steps in the direction of establishing, organizing and maintaining a continuous line of road from one ocean to the other,
and that the various contracts, arrangements and leases were
but means to accomplish this one purpose; that the Virginia company, under the guidance and direction of Mr. Huntington, held
itself out to the world as a carrier or transporter and not a mere
forwarder of passengers from Washington to Louisville or the
reverse, and that it issued tickets as evidence or tokens of its
contract to so carry. The mere formal existence of these leases
does not change the actual facts in the case. Assuming their
validity, they are not conclusive against the defendants in error.
They could exist, and the train in question in this case might
still have been under the general control of or managed by the
Virginia corporation. If so, it was responsible for the neglect
of the agents employed by it. The fact that the Kentucky road
had immediately prior to the lease been in the actual control
and management of the Virginia company, when taken in connection with the other evidence in the case, is an important one
in determining the main question as to the continuation of such
management of the road or of the train after the execution of
the lease to the Connecticut corporation. In our judgment a
submission of the question as one of fact for the jury was not
error.
Another question was argued relating to the alleged release
of the cause of action by Mrs. Howard upon the payment of
two hundred dollars. The evidence adduced by the plaintiffs
in regard to the release'was sufficient, if believed, to render it unavailable as a defence. The question was submitted to the jury
under instructions quite as favorable to the defendant as it was
entitled to, and the finding in favor of the invalidity of the
paper ought not to be disturbed.
We have carefully examined the other questions made by the
plaintiffs in error, including that in regard to the want of jurisdiction because of an alleged insufficient service of process, but
we are satisfied that no error has been committed, and the judgment must, therefore, be

AJfrmed-

