OfHICAGO, ROOK ISLAND &c. RY. CO. v. MARTIN. 245
Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MARTIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 135. Submitted January 31,1900.-Decided May 21,1900.
This was an ordinary action, under a state statute, for wrongfully causing
the death of plaintiff's intestate, in 'which no Federal question was presented by the pleadings, or litigated at the trial, and in which the liability depended upon principles of general law, and not in any way upon
the terms of the order appointing the receivers; and whatever the rights
of the receivers might have been to remove the cause if they had been
sued alone, the controversy was not a separable controversy within the
intent and meaning of the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected by the act
of August 13, 1888, and this being so, the case came solely within the first
clause of the section, and it was not intended by Congress that, under
such circumstances, there should be any difference between the rule applied under the first and second clauses of the act.

THIs was an action brought by Lissa Martin as administratrix of William Martin, deceased, against the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railroad Company, and Clark and others,
receivers of the Union Pacific Railway Company, in the District Court of Clay County, Kansas, to recover damages for the
death of the decedent. Plaintiff's petition was filed January 26,
1894, and on February 14, 1894, the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad Company filed its separate answer thereto.
February 20, 1894, defendants Clark and others, as receivers,
presented their petition and bond, praying for the removal of
the cause to the United States Circuit Court for the District of
Kansas, on the ground that the case arose under the Constitution and laws of the United States, which application was
overruled by the District Court, and the receivers duly excepted. The cause was tried, the jury returned a verdict in
favor of plaintiff and against all the defendants, and judgment
was entered thereon. The cause was taken on error to the,
Supreme Court of Kansas by the defendants, and the judgment
was by that court affirmed. 59 Kansas, 437.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The refusal of the state court to remove the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States on the application of the receivers was relied on as error throughout the proceedings, and
the Supreme Court of Kansas feld, among other things, that
the application for removal was properly denied because all the
defendants were charged with jointly causing the death of
plaintiff's intestate, and all did not join in the petition for
removal.
. . X A. Low, 21r. Winslow S. Pierce, Yr. TF R. Kelly,
-Yr. iF. F. Evans, Xr. A. L. Williams and -r. NT.Al Loomis
for plaintiffs in error.
.A&. A. A. Godard and Xr. F. B. Dawes for defendant in
error.
M

.CHIEF JUSTiCE FULLEHt delivered the opinion of the court.

Assuming that as to the receivers the case may be said to
have arisen under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, the question is whether it was necessary for the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company, defendant, to join
in the application of its co-defendants, the receivers of the
Union Pacific Railway Company, to effect a removal to the
Circuit Court.
The Rock Island Company was not a corporation of Kansas,
and all the receivers of the Union Pacific Railroad Company
were citizens of some other State than the State of Kansas.
But the receivers applied for removal, after the Rock Island
Company had answered, on the ground that the suit was, as to
them, "one arising under the laws of the United States," in
that they were appointed receivers by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Districts of Nebraska and Kansas, to take
charge of and to operate, a corporation created by the consolidation, under acts of Congress, of a corporation of the United
States, a corporation of Kansas and a corporation of Colorado.
The act of March 3,1887, as corrected by the act of August 13,
1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, ยง 2, provides:,
"That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, arising

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &c. RY. CO. v. MARTIN. 247
Opinion of the Court.

under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority, of which
the Circuit Courts of the United States are given original jurisdiction by the preceding section, which may now be pending,
or which may hereafter be brought, in any state court, may be
removed by the defendant or defendants therein to the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the proper district. Any other
suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, of which the Circuit
Courts of the United States are given jurisdiction by the preceding section, and which are now pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in any state court, may be removed into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the proper district by
the defendant or defendants therein, being non-residents of that
State. And when in any suit mentioned in this section there
shall be a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be fully determined as between
them, then either one or more of the defendants actually interested in such controversy may remove said suit into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the proper district. And where
a suit is now pending, or may be hereafter brought, in any state
court, in which there is a controversy between a citizen of the
State in which the suit is brought and a citizen of another State,
any defendant, being such citizen of another State, may remove
such suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district, at any time before the trial thereof, when it
shall be made to appear to said Circuit Court that from prejudice
or local influencehe will not be able to obtain justice in such
state court. . .
It thus appears on the face of the statute that if a suit arises
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or if it is a
suit between citizens of different States, the defendant, if there
be but one, may remove, or the defendants, if there be more
than one; but where the suit is between citizens of different
States and there is a separable controversy, then either one or
more of the defendants may remove.
Under the first clause of section 2 of the act of 1875, 18 Stat.
4
c. 137, which applied to "either party," but in its rec0,
enactment in the second clause of section 2 of the act of 1887,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

above quoted, is confined to the defendant or defendants, it was
well settled that a removal could not be effected unless all the
parties on the same side of the controversy united in the petition;
and so as to the second clause of the second section of the act
of 1875, which corresponds with the third clause of the second
section of the act of 1887, it was held that that clause only
applied where there were two or more controversies in the same
suit, one of which was wholly between citizens of different
States. .Hanrickv. Iran'iek, 153 U. S. 192, and cases cited;
Torrencev. Shedd, 144 U. S. 527, and cases cited. In the latter
case Mr. Justice Gray said: "As this court has repeatedly
affirmed, not only in cases of joint contracts, but in actions for
torts, which might have been brought against all or against any
one of the defendants, ' separate answers by the several defendants sued on joint causes of action may present different questions for determination, but they do not necessarily divide the
suit into separate controversies. A defendant has no right to
say that an action shall be several .which a plaintiff elects to
make joint. A separate defence may defeat a joint recovery,
but it cannot deprive a plaintiff of his right to prosecute his
own suit to final determination in his own way. The cause of
action is 'the subject-matter of the controversy, and that is for
all the purposes of the suit, whatever the plaintiff declares it
to be in his pleadings."' And see Whkitcomb v. Smithson, 175
U. S. 635.
There was no separable controversy here. The case presented
a joint cause of action against all the defendants, and, indeed,
the removal was applied. for on the ground that the suit arose
under the Constitution and laws of the United States. It, therefore, came within the first clause of the section quoted, and if
the same rule governs proceedings under that clause that obtains
in respect of the second clause, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Kansas must be affirmed. And in view of the language
of the statute we think the proper conclusion is that all the
defendants must join in the application under either clause.
We do not regard Sonnenthiel v. 3foerlein Br'ewing Compvany,
172 U. S. 401, as in point. There an action had been brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Dis-

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &c. RY. CO. v. MARTIN. 249
Opinion of the Court.

trict of Texas by a citizen of Texas, against an-Ohio corporation and a United States marshal, the jurisdiction depending as
to one defendant on diverse citizenship, and as to the other on
the case arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and the question was whether the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was made final by the act of March 3,
1891, which we held it was not, as the jurisdiction was not
dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit being
citizens of different States.
.itchell v. Smale, 140 U. S. 406, is, however, justly pressed
on our attention as of weight in the disposition of the particular question raised in this case.
The case was this: Mitchell was a citizen of Illinois, and commenced an action of ejectnient in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, in that State, against three defendants, Jabez G. Smale,
and John J. and Frank I. Bennett. The Bennetts, who were
attorneys, appeared specially for Conrad N. Jordan, aid moved
that he be substituted as sole defendant. The motion was made
upon an affidavit of Jordan that the Bennetts had no interest,
having conveyed the property to him before the suit was commenced, and that Smale was a mere tenant under him, Jordan,
and had no other interest. The court denied the motion, and
thereupon Jordan was admitted to defend the cause as landlord
and codefendant. Afterwards, and in due time, Jordan filed a
petition, under the act of 1875, for the removal of the cause
into the Circuit Court of the United States, alleging as ground
of removal that the plaintiff was a citizen of Illinois, and that
he, Jordan, was a citizen of Nfew York, and was the owner of
the property, and that the sole controversy in the case was between him, Jordan, and the plaintiff, stating the facts previously
affirmed in his affidavit as to the want of interest in the Bennetts, and the tenancy of Smale. Subsequently Jordan obtained leave to amend his petition, and amended it so as to set
up that as between him and plaintiff the controversy involved
the authority of the Land Department of the United States to
grant certain patents, under which he claimed the right to hold
the land in dispute, after and in view of the patent under which
plaintiff claimed the same land. As Smale was merely a tenant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the court held that there was iio good reason why the contest
respecting the title might not have been carried on between Jordan and plaintiff alone so far as Smale was concerned; but as
to the Bennetts the court thought there was greater difficulty
in sustaining a removal, because they were made defendants
apparently in good faith, and were not acknowledged to be
tenants of Jordan, and plaintiff might well insist on prosecuting his action against them, as well as against Jordan, in order
that, if he should be successful, there might be no failure of a
complete recovery of the land claimed by him, but inasmuch
as Jordan exhibited a claiv, under the anthority of the United
States, which was contested by Mitchell on the ground of the
want of that authority, while it was true that laws of the
State of Illinois might be invoked by the parties, still it was no
less true that the authority of the United States to make the
grant relied on would be necessarily called in question. In
view of that defence the jurisdiction was sustained apparently
on the ground that there was a separable controversy, and the
particular terms of the different clauses of the statute were
really not discussed.
The case was a peculiar one, and we must decline to allow it
to control the determination of that before us.
In Gold Washing and Water Company v. Keyes, 96 U. S.199,
203, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said: "A cause cannot be removed
from a state court simply because, in the progress of the litigation, it may becoime necessary to give a construction to the
Constitution or laws of the United States. The decision of the
case must depend upon that construction. The suit must, in
part at least, arise out of a controversy between the parties in
regard to the operation and effect of the Constitution or laws
upon the facts involved.

.

.

.

Before, therefore, a Circuit

Court can be required to retain a cause under this jurisdiction,
it must in some form appear upon the record, by a statement
of facts, 'in legal and logical form,' such as is required in good
pleading, that the suit is one which 'really and substantially
involves a dispute or controversy' as to a right which depends
upon the construction or effect of the Constitution, or some law

RIDER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

or treaty of the United States."

Blackburn v. Portland Gold

.Xining Company, 175 U. S. 571.

In Mitchell v. Smale, the claim of Jordan was treated by the
court as coming within that ruling, but the case before us does
not. This was an ordinary action under a state statute for
wrongfully causing the death of plaintiff's intestate. No Federal question was in fact presented by the pleadings nor litigated at the trial. The liability depended on principles of general law applicable to the facts, and not in any way upon the
terms of the order appointing the receivers. Whatever the
rights of the receivers to remove the cause if they had been
sued alone, the controversy was not a separable controversy
within the intent and meaning of the act. This being so, the
case came solely within the first clause of the section, and we
are of opinion that it.was not intended by Congress that, under
such circumstances, there should be any difference between the
rule applied under the irst and the second clauses of section 2
of the act of 1887-8.
Judgment afirmed.

RIDER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 40. Argued November 1, 199.-Decided May 14,1900.

The fourth and fifth sections of the River and Harbor Act, approved September 19, 1890, provide: "ยง 4. That section, nine of the River and Harbor
Act of August 11th, 1888, be amended and rednacted so as to read as follows: Thatwheuever the Secretary of War shall have good reason to believe that any railroad or' other bridge now constructed or which may
hereafter be constructed over any of the navigable waterways of the
United States is an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of
such waters on account of insufficient height, width or span, or otherwise, or where there is difficulty in passing the draw-opening of the drawspan of such bridge by rafts, steamboats or other water crafts, it shall
be the duty of said Secretary, first giving the parties reasonable oppor-

