In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 421
Syllabus.

73 N. Y. 38; Grand Trunk Railway Co. v. Cummings, 106
U. S. 700.
The principle was stated in the general charge of the court,
but it was materially modified in the application, and not at
all considered in giving the instructions requested by the defendant.
No exceptions, however, were taken to any portion of the
general charge of the court, and no question arising thereon is
open to our review on this writ of error. But as we remand
the case for a new trial on account of the errors which we have
pointed out irrespective of the general charge, we deem it best
to say that we must not be understood as affirming anything
contained in instructions numbered 11 and 12, or any other instruction which conflicts with the principles announced in Texas
& Pacific Railway Co. v. Archibald, 170 U. S.-665, 671.
We do not intend to express an opinion as to the facts of the
case, or of any fact, or of any of the theories of the explosion.
We only mean to decide that on the issues made and on the
evidence, and regarding the provisions of the act of Congress,
the instructions given by the trial court to the jury were erroneous.
The judgment of the Suvreme Court of the Territoryis reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to reverse
the judgment of the District Court and direct a new t2ial.

Inb re CONNAWAY AS RECEIVER OF THE MOSCOW
NATIONAL BANK.
ORIGINAL.
No.9, Original. Submitted April 9,1900.-Decided May 28,1900.

A national bank was closed by order of the Comptroller of the Currency
and a receiver appointed. An assessment was made upon tile holders of
stock. Overton and Hoffer were among those who were assessed, and
payment not having been made, suit was brought against them. Service

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
was made upon H., but not upon 0., who was very ill, and who died
without service having been made upon him. He left a will, underwhich
J. P. 0. was duly appointed his executor. The executor was summoned
into the suit by a writ of scire fae, as. A motion was made to set aside
the scire facias and the attempted service thereof, which motion was
granted. The executor being substituted in the place of the deceased as
defendant, the court decided that it had acquired no jurisdiction over
the deceased, and could acquire none over his executor. Thereupon the
receiver applied to this court for a writ of mandamus to the Judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Ninth Circuit commanding
them to take jurisdiction and proceed against J. P. 0. as executor of the
last will and testament of 0., deceased, in the'action brought by the receiver to recover the assessments. Held:
(1) That mandamus was the proper remedy, and the rule was made absolute ;
(2) That the action of the Circuit Court in setting aside the scire facias
was here for review ;
(3) That scirefacias was the proper mode for bringing in.the executor,
and under Rev. Stat. ยง 955, it gave the court jurisdiction to render
iudgment against the estate of the deceased party in the same
manner as if the executor had voluntarily made himself a party.

T.E case is stated in the opinion.
_r. W. L. ftillyer, .Y.
Berry for petitioner.

Curtis Hfillyer and Xr. Olin .

.r.
TF ff. Anderson and Xr. Jesse W. Lilienthal for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE
oMcK@NNIA

delivered the opinion.of the court.

THIs is a petitioh for a writ of mandamus to the Judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Ninth Circuit
and District of California, which substantially shows as follows:
The Moscow National Bank of Moscow, Idaho, was a corporation organized under the national banking laws of the United
States, with its place of business at Moscow, Idaho.
The bank, becoming insolvent, was closed by order of the
Comptroller of the Currency of the United States, and taken
control of by that officer.
On January 3, 1898, he appointed petitioner receiver of the
bank's assets.

In r2e CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 423
Opinion of the Court.

On June 14, 1897, the Comptroller made an assessment of
one hundred dollars on each share of the capital stock of the
bank, and ordered the stockholders to pay the same on or before July 14, 1897. 0. P. Overton and C. A. Hoffer were owners of one.hundred shares, and by the assessment became indebted to petitioner in the sum of $10,000, with interest from
June 14, 1897..
On March 28, 1898, petitioner commenced an action in that
court against said Overton and Hoffer for the said sum of
$10,000, and caused a summons to be issued, directed to them
as defendants, and placed it in the hands of the marshal for
service.
Service was made in the usual form by the marshal on Hoffer
personally, in Santa Rosa, in said district.
As to Overton, the marshal made the following return on the
5th of April, 1898: "I hereby certify that I was unable to
make personal service on 0. P. Overton, as he was very sick,
and was not permitted to see any one, under instructions of
his physicians."
On April 13, 1898, 0. P. Overton died without service having been made upon him.
He made a last will and testament, appointing John P. Overton executor thereof, which was duly probated, and letters
testamentary were duly issued.
On March 15, 1899, these facts were brought to the notic of
the Circuit Court, and petitioner moved for and obtained an
order directing that a writ of sifefacias issue to said John P.
Overton, which concluded as follows: "You are hereby commanded within twefity days after the service upon you of this
writ to appear and become a party to this suit, according to
the provisions of section 955 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, or show cause why you should not, otherwise
judgment may be taken against the estate of said deceased in
like manner as if you had voluntarily made yourself aparty."
The writ was duly served and a motion was noticed for
April 17, 1899, for an order setting aside the soire faoias "and
the attempted service thereof."
The ground of the motion was that "Overton died before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

service upon him of any process, that no process was ever served
upon him herein, and that this action was never pending against
him; and upon such other grounds as to the court may seem
proper."
The motion was granted, and the petitioner allowed an exception.
On June 12, 1899, upon the suggestion of the death of defendant 0. P. Overton, the court made an order substituting
John P. Overton as executor of the last will and testament of
0. P. Overton, deceased, as defendant, and ordered an alias
summons to issue to him as executor.
The summons was duly served, and on August 11, 1899, he
by his attorneys, filed and served a notice of motion to set aside
the order of substitution and quash the alias summons, on the
ground "that said 0. P. Overton died before the service upon
him of any process herein; that said alleged alias summons is
not in the form required by law, and upon such other grounds
as to the court may seem proper."
The matter coining on to be beard on November 20, 1899, and
having been submitted, it was granted on December 4, 1899,
and petitioner was allowed an exception..
The petition for a writ of mandamus alleges that the ground
upon which said court set aside the service of summons was
that the action had abated by the death of 0. P. Overton before the service of process upon him; and prays that a writ of
mandamus be issued to the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States aforesaid to take jurisdiction and proceed against
John P. Overton as executor as aforesaid.
A rule to show cause was granted. The return thereto by
the learned Judge of the Circuit Court admits that the allegations of the petition as to the proceedings had in the Circuit
Court are true, except that the court "has not refused to take
jurisdiction of the action therein referred to, but only of the
person of John P. Overton, executor of the last will and testament of 0. P. Overton, the deceased defendant in said action."
And the return alleged that the grounds upon which the court
set aside the service of the alias summons were stated in the
opinion of the court. 98 Fed. Rep. 54.

In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 425
Opinion of the Court.

The basis of the opinion is that the court had acquired no
jurisdiction over the deceased defendant 0. P. Overton, and
could acquire none over his executor, John P. Overton.
1. It is objected that mandamus is not the proper remedy.
Counsel say: "This is not a case in which the court refuses to
entertain jurisdiction. The action has not been dismissed. It
is still pending in the Circuit Court, and may, and doubtless
will, proceed to final judgment." But final judgment against
whom? Not against 0. P. Overton, for he is deceased. Not
against John P. Overton or the estate he represents, because
he has not been made a party to the action, and judgment
against Hioffer alone may not be all of petitioner's remedy. If
the court's ruling is erroneous, how can it be redressed by an
appeal from the judgment, Overton not being a party to the
action? The court declined to make hima party on the ground
that it had no jurisdiction to do so. If it has jurisdiction, manGrossmayer, Petitioner, 177
damus is the proper remedy.
U. S..48. Whether the court had jurisdiction we will proceed
to consider.
2. The return of the rule to show cause is confined to the
action of the Circuit Court on the alias summons. But its action for setting aside the writ of scirefaciasis also here for
review.
Section 955 of the Revised- Statutes of the United States provides as follows:
"When either of the parties, whether plaintiff or petitioner
or defendant, in any suit in any court of the United States, dies
before final judgment, the executor or administrator of such
deceased party may, in case the cause of action survives by
law, prosecute or defend such suit to final judgment. The defendant shall answer accordingly; and the court shall hear and
determine the cause, and render judgment for or against the
executor or administrator, as the case may require. And if
such executor or administrator, having been duly served with a
s8i0efacias from the office of the clerk of the court where the
suit is pending, twenty days beforehand, neglects or refuses to
become a party to the suit, the court may render judgment
against the estate of the deceased party in the same manner as

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

if the executor or administrator had voluntarily made himself
a party. The executor or administrator who becomes a party
as aforesaid shall, upon motion to the court, be entitled to a
continuance until the next term of said court."
It is preliminarily urged against this section that it "applies
only where an action is 'brought in a Federal court, and is
based upon some act of Congress, or arises under some rule of
general law recognized in the courts of the Union;' that in
such an action ' the question of revival will depend upon the
statutes of the United States relating to the subject;' but that
otherwise it depends upon the laws of the State in which it is
commenced." Martin v. B. & 0. Railroad, 151 U. S. 673;
B. & 0. Railroadv. Joy, 173 U. S. 226, are cited.
In those cases the controversy wag over the survival of the
action; in the pending case that is not the controversy. It is
not contended that the action does not survive. It is only contended that personal jurisdiction was not obtained of 0. P.
Overton before his death, and that, therefore, his executor,
John P. Overton, could not be brought into the action, either
by .scirefacias, under section 955, Rev. Stat., or by motion suggesting the death of his testate and by alias summons.
In Sc reiber v. Sharless, 110 U. S. 76, cited in .Afartin v. B.
& 0. Railroad,supra, it was decided that "whether an action
survives depends on the substance of the cause of action, not on
the forms of proceeding to enforce it." And that a cause of
action on a penal statute of the United States did not survive,
even though causes of action on state penal statutes could be
prosecuted after the death of the offender.
In fartin v. B. & 0. Railroad,however, the action was for
personal injuries, and it was said, "whether the administrator
has a right of action depends upon the law of West Virginia,
where the action was brought and the administrator was appointed." Rev. Stat. ยง 721; Henshaw v. .Yiller, 17 How. 212.
"The mode of bringing in the representatives, if. the cause of
action survived, would- also to be governed by the law of the
State, except so far as Congress has regulated the subject." It
was determined upon consideration that the cause of action did
not survive.

In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. '427
Opinion of the Court.

In B. & 0. Railpoad v. Joy, the question was presented in a
unique aspect. The action was for personal injuries, which
occurred in Indiana, and suit was brought in Ohio. By the
laws of the former State the action did not survive; by.the
laws of the latter, the cause of action did survive. If suit had
not been brought before the death of the person injured, the
cause of action abated in both States.
The cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States, and it was held that the cause of action survived the
death of the person injured, and could be revived in the name
of his personal representative. We said: "We think that the
right to revive attached, under the local law, when Hervey
[the person injured] brought his action in the state court. It
was a right -of substantial value, and became inseparably connected with the cause of action, so far as the laws of Ohio were
concerned." And it was denied that the right to revive was
lost by the removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the
United States or affected by sec. 955, Rev. Stat. We said further: "Whether a pending action may be revived upon the
death of either party and proceed to judgment depends primarily
upon the laws of the jurisdiction in which the action was commenced. If an action be brought in a Federal court, and is
based upon some act of Congress or arises under some rule of
general law recognized in the courts of the Union, the question
of revivor will depend upon the statutes of the United States
relating to that subject. But if at the time an action is brought
in.a state court the statutes of that State allow a revivor of it
on the death of the plaintiff before final judgment-even where
the right to' sue is lost when death occurs before any suit is
brought-then we have a case not distinctly or necessarily
covered by section 955."
By section 955 an executor or administrator of "plaintiff or
petitioner or defendant in any suit in any court of the United
States," may be made a party by "scirefcias served from the'
office of the clerk of the court where the suit is pending."
When can a suit be said to be "in any court of the United
States," or said to be "pending" theein? Is not the answer
inevitable, from the time the suit is commenced ? It cannot be

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pending untif it is commenced, and if it continue until the death
of the "plaintiff or petitioner or defendant," the requirements
of the section seem to be satisfied.
Another inquiry becomes necessary - when is a suit commenced? For an answer we must go to the California statutes.
By section 405 of the Code of Civil Procedure, it is provided:
"Civil actions in the courts of this State are commenced by
filing a complaint." By section 406 summons may be issued at
any time within a year, and if necessary to different counties.
The defendant may appear, however, at any time within a year.
The filing of the complaint, therefore, is the commencement of
the action and the jurisdiction of the court over the case. The
jurisdiction would undoubtedly continue for a year, and probably afterwards, and a motion to dismiss would probably be
necessary to get rid of the case. .Dupuy v. Shear, 29 Cal. 238,
242; Reynolds v. Page, 35 Cal. 296, 300.
3. It is said, however, that jurisdiction of the person of 0. P.
Overton had not been obtained prior to his death, and this is
undoubtedly true. Service of summons was necessary for that.
It was so decided in Dupuy v. Shear, &upra;and section 416
of the Code of Civil Procedure provides: "From the time of
the service of the sum'mons and of a copy of the complaint in
a civil action, where service of a copy of the complaint is required, or the completion of the publication when service by
publication is ordered, the court is deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction of the parties, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a defendant
is equivalent to personal service of the summons and copy. of
the complaint upon him."
It is claimed that this section precludes jurisdiction of "the
subsequent proceedings" in the actiofi, unless the summons was
served, or, to quote counsel, "the Circuit Court in this instance
lacked ' jurisdiction' and ' control' of the ' proceedings,' so far
as the defendant Overton was concerned. It was, therefore,
absolutely powerless to lay its hands .upon the deceased defendant's representative." The contention is claimed to be supported by the construction of similar statutes in Oregon and
Minnesota made by their courts. White v. Johnson, .27Oregon,

In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 429
Opinion of the Court.
282, and Auerback v. XManazd, 26 Minn. 421. The latter case
sustains the contention, and proceeds to the extent of denying
the court any jurisdiction to proceed further in the. action.
W7 it v. Johnson does not go so far. It cites and follows the
:Ninnesota case to the extent of holding "that the court is without power or authoity to take any action looking to the rendition of a personal judgment merely without first obtaining jurisdiction through the service of a summons upon the defendant."
But the court did not decide that it had no control of subsequent proceedings, but reduced the question to one of procedure and the necessity of service of the summons before a personal
judgment could be taken. The court admitted that the statute
provided that no action abated upon the death of the party, and
provided that the court might allow the action to be continued
on motion, and that such was the practice in New York and in
California under similar statutes, and then said: "The statute
provides that the court may, at any time within one year after
the death of a party, on motion, allow the action to be continued against the personal representative, but no provision is made
in a case of this kind, as to the manner of bringing in the substituted party. The court could, therefore, adopt any reasonable procedure that might seem proper, but the service of a
valid summons could not be dispensed with. Probably the
better practice would have been for the lower court to have required the plaintiff to file a supplemental complaint in the action,
showing the death of defendant and the appointment of an executrix, and thereupon to issue an alias summons containing
the title of the action after substitution made, and had the same
directed to the said Cordelia Johnson. A service of such a
summons, together with a copy of the complaint, would undoubtedly suffice to require her appearance, in default of which judgment might have been entered against her. Such a practice
and procedure seem reasonable, and well calculated to effect the
desired results in an orderly manner." -The case was reversed,
and sent back for such other proceedings as might be deemed
advisable.
It is certain that this case is not authority for the contention
that the court had no jurisdiction or control over subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings. It asserted such jurisdiction, and held that in its
exercise "the court could, therefore, adopt any reasonable procedure that might seem proper," provided a summons was
served.
But even if IWhite v. Johnson and Auerbaoh v. 3aynardconcurred in holding that upon the death of a defendant the court
bould not proceed further in the action, we should, nevertheless,
be unable to assent to the doctrine. At common law all actions
abated by the death of parties before judgment, and to prevent
the application and effect of that principle, section 955, preceded
by section 31 of the Jildiciary Act of 1789, was enacted, and
provisions like that of section 385 of the Code of Civil Procedure
of California were also enacted. The section is as follows:
"SEc. 385. An action or proceeding does not abate by the
death or any disability of a party, or by the transfer of any
interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In
case of the death or disability of a party, the court, on motion,
may allow the action or proceeding to be continued by or
against his representative or successor in interest. In case of
any other transfer of interest, the action or proceeding may be
continued in the name of the original party, or the court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted
in the action or proceeding."
This section does not make distinctions dependent upon the
stages of the action or proceeding. The action or proceeding
only needs to exist, and to distinguish its degrees of progress is
certainly to add to the letter of the section.
We are, therefore, disposed to the construction of a similar
provision in the Code of Montana, made by the Supreme Court
of Montana in Lav7l v. _Frost, 16 Mont. 93, not only because
the construction is in consonance with the purpose of the statute, but accurate as to its letter.
The action was upon a bill of exchange. Frost, the defendant's intestate, died after the complaint was filed, and the defendant, his administratrix, was substituted in his stead.
The court said: "It does not appear- whether Frost was
served with .ummons before his death, but the action was commenced before his death. An action is commenced by filing a

In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 431
Opinion of the Court.

complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. ยง66.) 'An action or defence shall
not abate by the death of a party, but shall survive and be
maintained by his representatives.' (ยง22.) .
.
So far we
are of opinion, there was no error in the case."
The procedure in California in case of the death of the defendant before service has not been ruled upon, but in case
death occur after service, it was said in Tdylor v. T estern Pa
oijfc R. R. Co., 45 Cal. 323, at page 337: "It has been the uniform practice of the State from its organization, so far as we
are advised, to permit the substitution to be made, or a suggestion of the deathof the former party and satisfactory proof, on
an exparte motion, of the appointment and qualification of the
administrator."
The same ruling was made in Campbiell v. We8t, 93 Cal. 653.
And the practice was emphasized by contrast with that in case
of a transfer of interest otherwise than by death. In such case
the court said when the pioceedings were set in motion by the
plaintiff or the person to whom the transfer is made, or by the
defendant if for any reason he desires to avail himself of such
transfer for any purpose, it must be made by supplemental coinplaint or answer.
We see no reason why the representative of a deceased party
should not be brought in by the same procedure, whether the
death of a party occur before or after service, and the language
of the statute so expresses. The court would undoubtedly take
care that ample notice was given, and nothing morecan be necessary.
The cases in equity cited by petitioner contain some pertinent.
remarks as to when a suit may be considered as having been
commenced, and in what stage'of the suit it can be'revived
against the representatives of a deceased party. The cases cannot be said to be inapplicable to the statutes of States which,
like California, have abolished the difference between legal and
equitable forms of action, and which, under one form of action
and the method of procedure of the State, intend to give, notless, but greater, remedial facilities, and, while accommodating
'the relief to the circumstances of the case, expedite the relief
by freeing it from the delays and expense of the old procedure,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

both in common law and equity, and to obtain the good in both
by asimpler practice.
In Gordon v. Tyler, 53 Mich. 629, 631, the original defendants
not having been served before their deaths, the court said, in
passing on a motion to set aside the service and dismiss the bill:
"The basis of this objection is that until a defendant has appeared the suit cannot be treated as having actually been commenced against him; so that if he dies before appearance it is
as if he had never been in the case, and an original bill is neoessary to reach his representatives. The citation from Daniells'
Chancery Practice seems to favor that idea. But the authorities and practice have uniformly held that the filing of a bill is
the commencement of suit for most purposes, and we can see
no reason for adopting.any exceptiolial'rule in such cases as the
present. An affidavit can always be made in a cause as soon
as thebill is filed, and sometimes becomes necessary to support
an order for the" appearance of an absentee. A notice of lis
pendens may always be filed at once, and it would lead to very
seriou.s mischief if a failure to serve process at once on %defendant could nullify the effect of such filing. For 'many purposes it is not always important whether a bill is a bill of revivor or an original bill in the nature of one. But for some
purposes the difference is very material, and rights may be seriously jeopardized bi holding a failure to get a defendant in
before his death equivalent ..to a failure to implead him. The
evident object of our statute is to hasten the proceedings by
allowing a petition to stand in lieu of a bill of revivor, and we
do not see any good reason for holding that a suit, if regarded
as commenced for any substantial purpose, should not be regarded as commenmced, so as to save all rights as against the
estates of a deceased defendant, appearing or not appearing.
No one's rights are injuked by so holding, and important rights
may be jeopardized by holding otherwise."
This ruling was reaffirmed in Stevenson v. _R'utz, 57 N. W.
Rep. 580.
In Maine, an executor of the deceased defendant may be
brought in by bill of revival. In declaring the practice the
court said, in Hubbard v. Johnson, 77 Maine, 139: "The general

In re CONNAWAY REC'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 433
Opinion of the Court.

rule in equity is that, strictly speaking, there is no cause in
c~urt as against a defendant until his appearance. 2 Dan. Ch.
(5th ed.) 1523. But in this State, since a bill may be inserted in
a writ of attachment, (Rev. Stat.'. 77, sec. 11,) as this was, and a
suit is commenced When the writ is actually made with intention
of service, (Rev. Stat. c. 81, see. 95,) an executor may be brought
in by a revivor, although no service has been made on the testator. Heard v. ffarch, 12 Cush. 580."
The same ruling was made in Massachusetts in Heard v.
3arc~k, and while there was no opinion of the court, from the
argument of counsel the ruling was apparently based on the
same grounds as in H.ubbard v. Johnson, supra, to wit, that an
action was commenced on the day of the date of the writ that
being the process in chancery.
It was said in Lyle v. Bradford, 7 T. B. Monroe, 111, 116:
That the suing out process has at all times beentheld the commencement of an action or suit, and that as to the person against
whom process has been issued there must necessarily be a pending suit from the date of the process, so as to abate and require
a revival upon his death."
There is nothing in Lewis v. Outlaw, 1 Tenn. (1 Overton) 140,
which opposes these views. Indeed, it affirms them. The court
said: "Agreeably to the practice in the courts of law in England, all suits abated by the death of either party; nor could
they be revived by scirefacias." The court then proceeded to
say that the practice of chancery in England was upon the death
of. either plaintiff or defendant to file a bill of revivor against
the representatives of the deceased, and applying this practice to
Kentucky under a statute which provided no abatement should
occur by the death of either the plaintiff or defendant but might
be "proceeded upon by application of the heirs, executors, administrators or assigns of either party," said: "It seems clear
that all revivals, to comport with the principles of reason and
the English practice, should be made by causing appropriate
process to issue so as to make the representatives of the deceased
parties in a legal manner. To revive a dormant judgment a
8 r'efaeia8 is necessary. To revive in chancery the authorities
show that a bill must be filed, and process issued thereon, to
VOL. oixxviii-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which the representatives may make such answer as the nature
of the case may require."
Hyde v. -Leavitt,Administratorof Griffin, 2 Tyler, 170, cited
by respondent's counsel, must be considered as peculiar to the
practice in Vermont.
The statute of the State was very similar to section 955 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, (supra,) and it was
held, reversing the lower court, that notwithstanding Griffin,
the deceased, had been personally served with the writ, as it
was made returnable June term, 1801, and as Griffin died before session day, his administrator could not be made a party
under the statute. The ground of the decision seemed to be
that the suit could not be considered as pending until it was
entered in court. The contrary was held in Clindeninv. Allen,
4 N. H. 385. The same contention was made which was made
in Hyde v. Leavitt. The court decided that, ".as the term
'pending' means nothing more than 'remaining undecided,'
an action may, without doubt, be considered as pending from
the commencement." And we may say that Hyde v. Leavitt
did not long remain law in Vermont. At their October sessions, 1804, the General Assembly amended the stature to make
the commencement of the suit, in case of the death of either
party, the same as to rights for and against executors as existed
in a suit which was "pending," using this word, no doubt, to
meet the ruling of the court.
However, the discussion to the extent we have carried it may
not be necessary. Section 955, Rev. Stat., determines when the
representative of a deceased party may be brought into an action, and that scire faoias is the procedure whereby he may be
brought in. And it is not confined to a case where a judgment
has been obtained. It is a process of notice to the executor or
administrator to come in, and if he should not come in, gives
jurisdiction to the court to "render judgment against the estate
of the deceased party, in the same manner as if the executor
or administrator had voluntarily made himself a party." This
is the language of the section. If doubt there can be of its
construction, it is removed by the case of Green v. Watkins, 6
Wheaton, 260, and Mfacleers Heirs v. Thomas, 7 Wheaton, 530.

In re CONNAWAY REO'R OF MOSCOW NAT. BANK. 435
Opinion of the Court.

In Green v. TWatkins, the court, passing on section 31 of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, of which sections 955 and 956, Rev. Stat.,
are reproductions, pointed out the distinction between the death
of parties before judgment and after judgment, and said: "In
the former case all personal actions by the common law abate;
and it required the aid of some statute like that of the .thirtyfirst section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, to enable the
action to be prosecuted by or against the personal representative of the deceased, when the cause of action survived."
The enactment of the section was to provide against the
abatement'of actions which would otherwise abate at common
law, and we cannot confine its remedy to the cases where death
occurs after judgment., In other words, confine its remedy to
the cases where the common law already afforded a remedy.
See also .MeCoul v. Lekamp, 2 Wheat. 111, and Hyde v. Leavitt,
8up2ra.
Except when c6nsidering the objection made here to the
remedy by mandamus, We have treated the case as if 0. P.
Overton, the deceased party, was the sole defendant, and that
the action necessarily abated unless there was a saving statute.
But he was not the sole defendant, and the action did not abate
at common law if the cause of action survived against the other
defendant. We assume (the record does not enable us to determine absolutely) that it did, and the reason for bringing in
the representatives of the deceased defendant is the stronger.
We think, therefore, that the Circuit Court erred in setting
aside the scire facias and the rule for mandamus is made
absolute.

