OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

lost their distinctive character as imports and became a part of
the general mass of the property of Louisiana, and subject to local
taxation as other property in that State, the moment the boxes,
cases or bales in which they were shipped reached their destination for use or trade and were opened and the separate packages
therein eiposed or offered for sale; consequently, the assessment in question was not in violation of the Constitutiofn of the
United States.
This disposes of the only Federal question arising on this
appeal.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Aff'med.
MR.. CHIEF JUST=IE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSand AIR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

TICE SHIRAs

DEWEY v. UNITtD STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 546.

Argued April 10, 1900.-Decided May 28, 1900.

In this case it was rightly decided in the court below, that in determining
under the provisions of Rev. Stat. sec. 902, whether the Spanish vessels
sunk or destroyed *at Manila were of inferior or superior force to the
American vessels engaged in that battle, the land batteries, mines and
torpedoes, not controlled by those in charge of the Spanish vessels, but
which supported those vessels, were to be excluded altogether from consideration,oand that the size and armaments of the vessels sunk or destroyed, together with the number of men upon them, were alone to be
regarded in determining the amount of the bounty to be awarded.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. H. A. Herbert and Xi%.Benjamin Xfieou for appellant
and othri's.

DEWEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Wi=iam B. Zing for other officers and men.
XAf. Assistant Attorney General Pradtfor the United States.
M . JusTIcO

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action in the Court of Claims to recover bounty
money earned by the plaintiff in error as the commanding officer of the American fleet at the naval battle of Manila on the
1st day of May, 1898.
The statute under which the action was brought is as follows:
"Rev. Stat. § 4635. A bounty shall be paid by the United
States for each person on board any ship or vessel of war belonging to an enemy at the commencement of an engagement,
which is sunk or otherwise destroyed in such engagement by
any ship or vessel belonging to the Unfted States, or which it
may be necessary to destroy in consequence of injuries sustained
in action, of one hundred dollars, if the enemy's vessel was of
inferior force, and of two hundred dollars if of equal or superior
force, to be divided among the officers and crew in the same
manner as prize money; and when the actual number of men
on board any such vessel cannot be satisfactorily ascertained,
it shall be estimated according to the complement allowed to
vessels of its class in the navy of the United States; and there
shall be paid as bounty to the captors of any vessel of war captured from an enemy, which they may be instructed to destroy,
or which is immediately destroyed for the public interest, but
not in consequence of injuries received in action, fifty dollars
for every person who shall be on board at the time of such
capture."
The mode in which bounty money earned under that section
was to be divided is indicated by the following provisions relating to the distribution of prize money:
"§ 4631. All prize money adjudged to the captors shall be

distributed in the following proportions:
"First. To the commanding officer of a fleet or squadron,
one twentieth part of all prize-money awarded to any vessel or
vessels under his immediate command.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Cour.

"Second. To the commanding officer of a division of a fleet
or squadron, on duty under the orders of the commander-inchief of such fleet or squadron, a sum equal to one fiftieth part
of any prize-money awarded to a vessel of such division for a
capture. made while under his command, such fiftieth part to
be deducted from the moiety due to the United States, if there
be such moiety, otherwise from the amount awarded to the
captors; but such fiftieth part shall not be in addition to any
share which may be due to the commander of the division, and
which he-may elect to receive, as commander of a single ship
making or assisting in the capture.
"Third. To the fleet-captain, one-hundredth part of all prizemoney awarded to any vessel or vessels of the fleet or squadron
in which he is serving, except in a case where the capture is
made by the vess-el on board of which he is serving at the
time of such capture; and in such case he shall share, in proportion to his pay, with the other officers and men on board
such vessel.
"Fourth. To the commander of a single vessel, one tenth
part of all the prize-money awarded to the vessel under his
command, if such vessel at the tifne of the capture was under
the command of the commanding officer of a fleet or squadron,
or a division, and three twentieths if his vessel was acting independently of such superior officer.
"Fifth. After the foregoing deductions, the residue shall be
distributed and proportioned among all others doing duty on
board, including the fleet-captain, and borne upon the books of
the ship, in proportion to their respective rates of pay in the
service."
It may be here stated that the provisions for prize-money
and bounty to the navy were repealed by an act of Congress
approved March 3, 1899, which declares that "all provisions
of law authorizing the distribution among captors of the whole
or any portion of the proceeds of vessels, or any property hereafter captured, condemned as prize, or providing for the payment of bounty for the sinking or destruction of vessels of the
enemy hereafter occurring in time of war, are hereby repealed."
30 Stat. 100-, 1007, c. 413, §13.

DEWEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The American vessels taking part in the battle were the
Olympia, Baltimore, Boston, Raleigh, Concord, Petrel, McCulloch, Nanshan and Zafiro.
The number of officers and men on those vessels during the
battle was 1836.
The Spanish vessels taking part in the battle were the IReina
Cristina, Castilla, Don'Juan de Austria, Don Antonio de Ulloa,
General Lezo, Mharquez del Duero, Argos, Velasco, Isla de Mindanao, Isla de Cuba, Isla de Luzon, Manila, and two torpedo
boats. The Reina Cristina, Castilla, Don Antonio de Ulloa, General Lezo, Marquez del Duero, Argos, Velasco, Isla de Mindanao
and the two torpedo-boats were destroyed by the American vessels. The Don Juan de*Austria, Isla de Cuba and Isla de Luzon
were disabled and put out of action in the battle, and were captured; but they were subsequently floated and repaired by the
United States and now constitute a part of the American navy.
The Manila was captured in the same engagement.
No claim for bounty under section 4635 is made in the present action on account of the sinking of the Don Juan de Austria,
Isla de Cuba and the Isla de Luzon, because proceedings are to
be begun in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to
condemn those vessels as prize of war, the claimant reserving
the right to make such claim hereafter, if it should be held
that the vessels are not subject to condemnation in prize.
The total number of men on board the Spanish vessels during
the battle of Manila was 2973. The total number on board the
Spanish vessels destroyed was, at the commencement of the
action, 1914.
The enemy's vessels were supported by land batteries and by
mines and torpedoes in the entrance to Manila Bay and in the
bay itself, and some of those in the bay.exploded during the
action.
It was found as a fact by the Court of Claims -and this
court must assume it to be true -that taking into c6nsideration the guns at Corregidor, El Fraile and other forts at the
entrance of the bay and those at Manila and Cavite, and the
torpedoes and mines in the bay and the entrance to it, the enemy's force was superior to the force of the vessels of the United
VOL. CLXXVIII-33

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

States; but that excluding shore batteries and submarine de.
fences, the American vessels and armaments were superior in
force to the Spanish vessels.
The court below -all its members concurring -was of opinion that the land batteries, mines and torpedoes that supported
the Spanish vessels during the naval engagement in Manila Bay
should be excluded from consideration, and that the claim of
the plaintiff came within the clause of the statute allowing the
sum of one hundred dollars for each person on board of the
vessels sunk or destroyed "if the enemy's vessel was of inferior
force," and not within the clause allowing the sum of two hundred dollars, "if [the enemy's vessel was] of equal or superior
force." Judgment was accordingly entered against the United
States for the sum of $9570, upon the basis 6f one hundred dollars for each person on board, at the commencement of the engagement, of the enemy's vessels sunk or destroyed.
The counsel have called our attention to several cases in this
and other courts. Do any of those cases constitute a direct adjudication of the question now before us?
In The L'onlad Atlanta, 3 Wall. 425, 432, the question was
whether a certain American vessel, the Nahant, was to be regarded as one of the capturing vessels in a naval engagement
in Wassau Sound, Georgia, in 1863. The court said: "The
importance of the point is this: the Weehawken was confessedly inferior in force to the Atlanta, and if she is alone to be
regarded in the comparison of forces, the whole prize-money
goes to the captors. On the other hand, the combined force of
the two monitors. was superior to that of the Atlanta, and if
both are to be regarded as capturing vessels, only one half of
the prize-money goes to the captors, and the decree must be
affirmed. The mere fact that the only shot fired and the only
damage done was by the Weehawken is not decisive. Other
circumstances must be taken into account in determining the
matter - such as the force, position, conduct and intention of
the lahant. The two vessels were known to be under the same
command, and of nearly equal force. The Atlanta descended
the sound to attack both, and governed herself with reference
to their combined action. It is not reasonable to suppose that

DEWEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

her course would have been the one pursued, had she bad only
th6 Weehawken to encounter. Besides, the fire of the Atlanta
was directed entirely to the Nahant, and of course diverted
from her consort. It is possible that a different result might
have followed had the fire been turned upon the Weehawken.
This diversion must be considered in every just sense of the
terms as giving aid to her. Again, the power of the shot of
the Weehawken had evidently surprised the officers of the Atlanta, who found their vessel speedily disabled and their crew
demoralized. The advance upon her, at full speed, of a second
monitor, of equal force, ready to inflict similar injuries, may
have hastened the surrender. It can hardly be supposed that
the approach of the second monitor did not enter into the consideration of the captain and officers of the Atlanta. If the
shot from the guns of one of the monitors could, in a few moments, penetrate the casemate of the Atlanta, crush in the bar
of her pilot-house, and prostrate between forty and fifty of her
men, her captain might well conclude that the combined fire of
both would speedily sink his vessel and destroy his entire crew.
It cannot be affirmed, nor is it reasonable to suppose, that any
of the incidents of the battle would have occurred as they did
if the Nahant had not been present in the action."
Another case referred to is that of The Siren, 13 Wall. 389,
395. That was. a case in prize arising out of certain captures
near Charleston, South Carolina, in 1865, of rebel vessels during the late civil war, as the result of the joint action of the
land and naval forces of the United States. This court, affirming the judgment of the District Court for the District of Massachusetts, held that Congress had made no provision in reference to joint captures by the. army and navy, and that such
captures enured exclusively to the benefit of the United States.
The court said: "We have already adverted to the ingress of
the navy into the harbor of Charleston on the morning of the
17th day of February. At nine o'clock that morning an officer
of the land forces hoisted the national flag over the ruins of
Fort Sumpter. Flags were also raised over Forts Ripley and
Pinckney. At ten o'clock a military officer reached Charleston.
The mayor surrendered the city to him. Four hundred and

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

fifty pieces of artillery, military stores, and much other property were captured with it. Contemporaneously with these
things was the seizure of the Siren by the Gladiolus, and the
approach and arrival of the rest of the fleet. The two forces
were acting under the orders of a common government, for a
common object, and for none other. They were united in their
labors and their perils, and in their triumph they were not
divided. They were converging streams toiling against the
same dike. When it gave way both swept in without further
obstruction. The consummation of their work was the fall of
the city. Either force, after the abandonment of their defences
by the rebels, could have seized all that was taken by both.
The meritorious service of the Gladiolus was as a salvor, and
not as a captor. Precedence in the time of the arrival of the
respective forces is an element of no consequence. Upon principle, reason and authority, we think the judgment of the District Court was correctly given."
The case chiefly relied upon by the plaintiff is -United States
v. Farragut,22 Wall. 406. The question now presented might
perhaps have been determined under the pleadings in that case, if
it had not been withdrawn from consideration before this court
rendered its judgment. Admiral Farragut and others of the
American navy filed a libel in admiralty in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia on account of certain prizes taken
below New Orleans in April, 1862. The plaintiff and the Govermnent referred the cause to the determination and award of
certain persons, whose award was to be final upon all questions
of law and facts involved -the award to be entered as a rule
and decree of court in the case, with the right also of either
party to appeal to this court as from other decrees or judgments
in prize cases. The arbitrators made an award, holding among
other things that certain captures were not a conjoint operation
of the army and navy of the United States. Exceptions were
filed to the award, as erroneous in point both of law and fact.
The exceptions were overruled and a decree was entered for
the claimants. After the case came to this court the Attorney
General, accordiig to the report of the case, dismissed the appeal as to certain property covering $613,520 of the aggregate

DEWEY v. UN-ITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sum allowed by the decree, and that sum was distributed among
the captors. That part of the case, it is stated, raised the very
question now presented, and it is contended that the action of
the Attorney General should be regarded as indicating the interpretation placed upon the statute by the Executive Department. We cannot accept this view. It does not appear from
the report of the case what reasons induced the Attorney General to dismiss the appeal of the Government as to the matters
referred to. It may have been because of the conviction that,
under the facts disclosed by the record, the capture in question
was not the result of the conjoint action of the army and navy,
but of the action alone of the navy. It is sufficient to say that
this court regarded the statement by the arbitrators that the
capture was not the joint act of the army and navy as binding
upon it, and what appears in the opinion about other points
has no bearing upon the present case.
Another case referred to by counsel is Porter v. United
State8, 106 U. S. 607, 611. But the decision there did not go
beyond the point that the act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 306,
311, c. 174, did not allow bounty where the vessels of the
enemy, during the late rebellion, were destroyed by the combined action of the land and naval forces of the United States.
The court said: "Prize-money, or bounty in lieu of it, is not
allowed by the laws of Congress where vessels of the enemy
ar6 captured or destroyed by the navy with the coi5peration of
the army. To win either, the navy must achieve its success
without the direct aid of the army, by maritime force only.
N~o pecuniary reward is conferred for anything taken or destroyed by the navy when it acts in conjunction with the army
in the capture of a fortified position of the enemy, though the
meritorious services and gallant conduct of its officers and men
.-may justly entitle them to honorable mention in the history of
the country."
Nor has Thte Selma, 1 Lowell, 30, 34, any bearing upon the
present discussion. That case arose out of certain captures
made in the action of August 5, 1864, in the bay of Mobile.
It was there decided-and nothing else was decided-that in
order to entitle a vessel to participate in the distribution of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

prize, its situation during the naval engagement must have been
such that it could have rendered assistance in the actual conflict in which the prize was taken. The court said: "Suppose
it had happened in the case now before me, as once occurred
on the Mississippi under the same great captain, that only a
small number of vessels had made good the passage of the forts;
and that they had found themselves only equal or inferior in
force to the enemy within, and had then succeeded by their
skill and gallantry in making this capture. It would be impossible, I think, under the case of The Atlanta, or on principle, to hold that the vessels outside were actual takers, and to
reduce the credit and reward of the conquerors to the level of
a capture by superior force. And it will not be easy under our
law to define actual captors in such a way as not to require of
them at least the qualifications of position and power to do service which the statute peremptorily imposes on constructive
takers."
We have referred quite fully to these cases because they were
made the subject of comment by counsel. But we do not think
that any of them meet the precise question now presented.
They throw no light on the inquiry whether, in estimating the
force of the enemy's vessel, the support furnished by land batteries, mines and torpedoes is to be taken into consideration.
The words in the existing statute relating to the distribution
of prize-money are not entirely new. In the act of March 2, 1799,
1 Stat. 709, 715, c. 21, § 5, relating to the navy of the United
States, it was provided: "That all captured national ships or
vessels of war shall be the property of the United States-all
other ships or vessels, being of superior force to the vessel making the capture, in men or in guns, shall be the sole property
of the captors-and all ships or vessels of inferior force shall
be divided equally between the United States and the officers
and men of the vessel making the capture."
In an act of April 23, 1800, 2 Stat. 45, 53, c. 33, § 7, for the
better government of the navy, it was provided: "That a
bounty shall be paid by the United States of twenty dollars for
each person on board any ship of an enemy at the commencement of an engagement, which shall be sunk or destroyed by

DEWEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

any ship or vessel belonging to the United States of equal or
inferior force, the same to be divided among the officers and
crew in the same rfianner as prize-money."
The fourth section of the act for the better government of
the navy, approved July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 600, 606, c. 204, § 4,
contained this provision: "That a bounty shall be paid by the
United States for each person on board any ship or vessel of
war belonging to an enemy at the commencement of an engagement which shall be sunk or otherwise destroyed in such
engagement, by any ship or vessel belonging to the United
States, or which it may be necessary to destroy in consequence
of injuries sustained in action, of one hundred dollars, if the
enemy's vessel was of inferior force; and of two hundred dollars, if of equal or superior force; to be divided among the
officers and crew in the same manner as prize-money; and
when the actual number of men on board any such vessel cannot be satisfactorily ascertained, it shall be estimated according to the complement allowed to vessels of their class in the
navy of the United States; and there shall be paid as bounty
to the captors of any vessel of war captured from an enemy,
which they may be instructed to destroy, or which shall be inmedidtely destroyed for the public interest, but not in consequence of injuries received in action, fifty dollars for every person who shall be on board at the time of such capture."
Then came the act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 306, 310,
c. 174, "§11, regulating prize proceedings and the distribution
of prize-money. The eleventh section of that act is substan,tially the same as the fourth section of the act of 1862, and is
reproduced in § 4635 of the Revised Statutes on which the
claimant bases his action against the United States.
It thus appears that Congress, in providing for bounty to be
paid by the United States on account of enemy vessels sunk or
otherwise destroyed by any ship or vessel belonging to the
United States, has never prescribed any other rule than to give
the smaller amount when the enemy's vessel was of inferior
force, and the larger amount when the enemy's vessel was of
equal or superior force. We are asked to construe the words
in the present statute "one hundred dollars, if the enemy's

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel is of inferior force, ahd two hundred dollars if of equal
or superior force," to mean just what it would mean if the
question of the inferiority or superiority of the enemy's vessel
was made, by express words, to depend upon the inquiry whether
it was or was not supported in the naval engagement by land
batteries, mines and torpedoes under the charge of others than
those having the management of the enemy's vessel. We cannot do that without going far beyond the obvious import of
the words employed by Congress. Of course, our duty is to
give effect to the will of Congress touching this matter. But
we must ascertain that will from the words Congress has chosen
to employ, interpreting such words according to their ordinary
meaning as well as in the light of all the circumstances that
may fairly be regarded as having been within the knowledge
of the legislative branch of the Government at the time it acted
on the subject. There is undoubtedly force in the suggestion
that in rewarding officers and sailors who have sunk or destroyed the enemy's vessels in a naval engagement it is not unreasonable that all the difficulties, of every kind, with which
they were actually confronted when engaging the enemy should
be taken into consideration. But that was a matter which we
cannot suppose was overlooked by Congress; and we are not
at liberty to hold that it proceeded upon the broad basis suggested, when it expressly declared that the amount of its bounty
shall depend upon the question whether "the enemy's vessel"
-not the enemy's vessel and the land batteries, mines and torpedoes, by which it was supported-was of inferior or of equal
or superior force.
In our examination of this case we have not forgotten the
skill and heroism displayed by the distinguished commander of
our fleet in the battle of Manila, as well as by the officers and
sailors acting under his orders. All genuine Americans recall
with delight and pride the marvelous achievements of our navy
in that memorable engagement. But this court cannot permit
considerations of that character to control its determination of
a judicial question or induce it to depart from the established
rules for the interpretation of statutes. Nor can we allow our
judgment to be influenced by the circumstance that Congress

DEWEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

has recently repealed all statutes giving bounty to officers and
soldiers of the navy for the sinking or destruction hereafter, in
time of war, of an enemy's vessels-thereby, it may be assumed,
indicating that in the judgment of the legislative branch of the
Government the policy of giving bounties to the navy was not
founded in wisdom and should be abandoned. This court has
nothing to do with questions of mere policy that may be supposed to underlie the action of Congress. What is termed the
policy of the Government in reference to any particular subject
of legislation, this court has said, "is generally a very uncertain
thing, upon which all sorts of opinions, each variant from the
other, may be formed by different persons. It is a ground
much too unstable upon which to rest the judgment of the court
in the interpretation of statutes." HEadden v. Te Collector, 5
Wall. 107, 111. Our province is to declare what the law is,
and not, under the guise of interpretation or under the influence
of what may be surmised to be the policy o the Government, so
to depart from sound rules of construction as in effect to adjudge
that to be law which Congress has not enacted as such. Here,
the language used by Congress is unambiguous. It is so clear
that the mind at once recognizes the intent of Congress. Interpreted according to the natural import of the words used,
the statute involves no absurdity or contradiction, and there is
consequently no room for construction. Our duty is to give
effect to the will of Congress, as thus plainly expressed. United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 399; Zake County v. Rollins,
130 U. S. 662, 670.
In our opinion, the Court of Claims did not err in holding
that in determining whether the Spanish vessels sunk or destroyed at Manila were of inferior or superior force to the American vessels engaged in that battle, the land batteries, mines and
torpedoes not controlled by those in charge of the Spanish vessels but which supported those vessels, were to be excluded altogether from consideration, and that the size and armaments
of the vessels sunk or destroyed, together with the number of
men upon them, were alone to be regarded in determining the
amount of the bounty to be awarded. In that view the decree
below was right, and it is
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
FULLER, C. J.,

WVHITE

and McKEwwA, JJ., dissenting.

MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER, with whom concurred MR. JusU

TICE

WHITE

and MIu. JUsTIcE MOKENHA, dissenting.

Claimant in prosecuting this case, in effect, represents the
claims of all the officers and men engaged in the battle of Manila Bay, May 1,1898. The question is not whether there was a
grant of bounty, for that is not disputed. It is simply as to the
amount of bounty, and the correct result turns upon the
construction of the statute. There being no controversy in respect of the existence of the grant, I am of opinion that the
rule of strict construction does not apply, and that the statute,
in view of its object, should be construed liberally in favor of
the beneficiaries. If so construed, the judgment ought to be
reversed.
The applicable statutory provision is as follows:
"A bounty shall be paid by the United States for each person on board any-shipor vessel of war belonging to an enemy
at the commencement of an engagement, which is sunk or
otherwise destroyed in such engagement by any ship or vessel
belonging to the United States, or which it may be necessary
to destroy in consequence of injuries sustained in action, of one
hundred dollars, if the enemy's vessel was of inferior force, and
of two hundred dollars, if of equal or superior force, to be divided among the officers and crew in the same manner as prize
money;
The obvious object of the law was to encourage personal
gallantry and enterprise. If the hostile force was equal or supeior then the bounty was to be double what it would be if the
enemy's force was inferior, because the hazards to be run were
so much the greater. But the bounty was limited in total
amount by the number of persons on board the vessels of the
enemy, which appears to have been considered to be a practicable restriction.
The chief distinction, as a military achievement, of the victory of Manila Bay, is that the American fleet, unaided by an
army, attacked a force composed of ships supported by powerful shore defences, together with submarine mines and torpedoes; and, in defiance of these open and hidden dangers, in ad-

DEWEY v. UNITED STATES.
FULLER, C. J., WHITE

and McKEN iA, JJ., dissenting.

dition to the power of the enemy's fleet, sailed in, and not only
destroyed or captured all the opposing vessels, but captured or
silenced the shore batteries.. To omit consideration of these
circumstances in determining pecuniary reward under the statute seems to me to be altogether unreasonable, and yet it is
held that in comparing the opposing forces, the shore batteries
and submarine mines and torpedoes, which our fleet was compelled to encounter, should not be taken into account, though
the bounrty could not rise above the number of persons on the
enemy's ships.
judgment that the intent plainly was that the entire
It is 'nr
opposing forces should be compared, and that the shore batteries, mines and torpedoes, protecting and defending the vessels of
the enemy, should be included in estimating the rate of bounty,
although they were, of course, not armaments or means of
attack or defence, directly located on the enemy vessels themselves. Indeed, the words of the statute, if literally construed,
might be limited to engagements of single vessels on each side,
yet as to this the principal opinion correctly applies a liberal
construction, and any other would be preposterous. But if a
liberal construction be proper at all, why not altogether?
The action of the Government in respect of the taking of
vessels by Admiral Farragut in the capture of N ew Orleans,
has great significance. That case involved an award made by
a distinguished board of arbitrators, Henry W. Paine, of' Massachusetts; Thomas J. Durant, of the District of Columbia,
and Gustavus V. Fox, then late Assistant Secretary of the
lavy, one of -whose findings was: "That in the engagement
which resulted in the capture of those ships, the entire force of
the enemy was superior to the force of the United States ships
and vessels so engaged." This finding was conceded to have
included the forts and batteries on shore, but that was not definitely stated. The executive department acquiesced in the
award of the arbitrators on this branch of the case without demanding a more specific finding, and this court was not called
upon to determine the precise question. 22 Wall. 406.
The Siren, 13 Wall. 389, is not to the contrary, inasmuch as
that was a case of joint capture by the army and navy, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

Congress had made no grant in such circumstances. Here the
victory was that of the navy alone, and the pecuniary fruits
under this statute should not be diminished because the opposing force was partly on shore or under water.
Undoubtedly it is our duty to give effect to the will of Congress, but in ascertaining its will the object Congress manifestly
sought to attain must be recognized, and should be controlling,
unless positively defeated by the language used.
. I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the
court, and am authorized to say that MiR. JUSTICE WHITE and
MNR. JUSTICE MOIKENNA concur in this dissent.

BARDES v. HAWARDEN BANK.
APPIEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 503. Submitted January 31,1900. -Decided May 28,1900.

The provisions of the second clause of section 23 of the Bankrupt Act of
1898 control and limit the jurisdiction of all courts, including the several District Courts of the United States, over suits brought by trustees
in bankruptcy to recover or collect debts due from third parties, or to set
aside transfers of property to third parties, alleged to be fraudulent as
against creditors, including payments in money or property to preferred
creditors.
The District Court of the United States can, by the proposed defendant's
consent, but not otherwise, entertain jurisdiction over suits brought by
-trustees in bankruptcy to set aside- fraudulent transfers of money or
property, made by the bankrupt to third parties before the institution.
of the proceedings in bankruptcy.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Ar. Clarence A. Brandendrugfor appellant.

21r. William

filchrist for appellees.

