MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 327
Syllabus.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 12. Argued January 22. 23, 1900.-Deci~ed May 28, 1900.
Upon the showing made by the Court of Appeals, it is clear that that court
had jurisdiction, and should have proceeded to dispose of this case on its
merits, instead of dismissing it for want of jurisdiction.
The plaintiff in error is a corporation, organized under the laws of the State
of New-York, and doing business as life insurers in the city of New York.
It had an agent in the State of Washington, to whom Phinney, a resident
in that State applied for a policy on his life. The application stated that
it was made subject to the charter of the company and the laws of New
York. A policy was issued which provided that on its maturing payment was to be made at the home office of the company in New York,
and on its receipt Phinney paid the first premium. The policy provided
that he should pay a like premium for twenty years, if he should live so
long, and that the policy should become void by non-payment of the premium, with a forfeiture of previous payments. Phinney failed to make
the next annual payment. Then he surrendered the policy to the local
agent. He died without having made that payment, or the next one
which matured before his death. His widow was appointed his executrix.
She presented to the company a claim for the amount of the insurance
under the policy. It was rejected. This suit was thereupon brought.
In: its answer the company set up that the contract was not to be taken
as a contract under the laws of the State of New York, but under the
laws of the State of Washington, and the company asked this instruction,
which the court declined to give. "If you find from the evidence in this
case that the said Guy C. Phinney stated to the representative of the
defendant in the State of Washington that he could not pay the premium
falling due September 24, 1891, and that he.did not pay nor tender the
same, and that he thereafter surrendered said policy to the defendant's
representative, they mutually believing and understanding that the same
was of no force or validity then or thereafter, by reason of the nonpayment of the said premium, this would constitute an abandonment
and rescission of this contract by both parties thereto, and would put an
end to the same; and if you find the facts so to be, you must find a verdict for the defendant." . The jury trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. This was taken in error to the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit which dismissed the writ of error on the ground
that it had no jurisdiction by reason of a failure on the part of the plaintiff in error to file the writ in the office of the trial court. Held:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
(1) That the Court of Appeals had jurisdiction;
(2) That, without deciding it, the court would hold for the purposes of
this case that the contract was made under the laws of the State
of New York, and was governed by the laws of that State;
(3) That it is to be presumed that each party knew what the laws of New
York were, and neither could be misled by any statement in respect
thereto on the part of the other;
(4) That there is nothing in the New York statute (if controlling at all)
to prevent the parties from dealing with that as with any other
contract, and if they chose to abandon it their action is conclusive.
After the company had once excepted to the refusal of an instruction which.
it had asked, and excepted to those which were given, it did not lose the
benefit of such exceptions by a request that the court repeat the instructions excepted to, in connection with certain answers made to questions
propounded by the jury.

ON September 22, 1890, Guy 0. Phinney, a resident of the
State of Washington, applied to the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York for a policy of insurance on his life for
the sum of $100,000, payableto his executors, administrators or
assigns. This application was forwarded by the local agent at
Seattle to the general agent of the company at San Francisco,
and by him to the home office of the company in Nvew York
city. By reason of such application a policy was issued to
Phinney, bearing date September 24, 1890, forwarded to the
general agent at San Francisco, by him to the local agent at
Seattle, and by the latter delivered to Phinney, who received it,
and at the same time paid the first year's premium, amounting
to $3770. The policy provided that Phinney should pay the
annual premium of $3770 on September 24 of each year thereafter for twenty full years, provided he should live so long, and
also "this policy shall become void by non-payment of the premium; all payments previously made shall be forfeited to the
company, except as hereinafter provided." This last exception
referred to certain provisions as to surrender value and readjustment of the amount of insurance on the payment of a certain number of payments, none of which are material to the
question at issue in this case. Prior to September 24, 1891,
notices were sent by both the general agent at San Francisco
and the local agent at Seattle to Phinney that his premium
would be due on September 24, 1891. Twice between the time

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 329
Statement of the Case.

of the receipt of this notice and the 24th of September, 1891,
Phinney met Stinson, and requested him to accept his notes for
the payment of the premium. This proposition was declined
by Stinson, who declared at the time that he was unable to advance the premium for Phinnev. Some time after September 24,
1891, (the exact date being unknown, but, according to the testimony from four to six weeks thereafter,) Phinney again met
Stinson, and stated that he was prepared to pay the premium,
but was told that it could not be accepted unless a certificate of
health was furnished. No certificate of health was ever furnished. Phinney stated that he could not obtain it, as he had
been rejected by another company a few days before, nor was
there ever any formal tender of the premium. In December,
1891, or January, 1892, Stinson requested Phinney to allow
him to have the policy to use for canvassing purposes, and
Phinney thereupon surrendered the policy to the agent, with
the statement that as the same had lapsed he had no further
use for it. Stinson received the policy, and never returned it
to Phinney. On September 24, 1892, the premium falling due
on that day was neither paid nor tendered by Phinney, nor did
he after the surrender of the policy in December, 1891, or January, 1892, ever take any action in regard thereto, or pay, or
offer to pay, any premium thereon. On September 12, 1893,
Phinney died, leaving his last will and testament, wherein he
nominated the plaintiff as executrix. Nothing was done by
her under this policy until July, 1894, although Phinney held
policies in two other companies at the time of his death, proofs
in respect to which were presented by the executrix within one
month after his death. At that time she wrote to the insurance
company a letter, in which she stated as follows:
"SEArTLE, WAsH'N, July 11, 1894.
"The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York:
"Gentlemen: On September 24, 1890, my husband, Guy 0.
Phinney, took out a policy, No. 422,198, in your company in
the sum of one hundred thousand dollars. He died in this city
last September 12, 1893. Not being familiar with his affairs,
and the policy being mislaid, I was not aware that he held such

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

a policy until a few days ago, when the matter was brought to
my attention."
In addition, it appears that on the 16th day of September,
1893, in her application for probate of her husband's will, she
filed an affidavit, which contained these statements:
"IReal estate, consisting of lands in said King County, of
town lots in the city of Seattle, and of improved city property,
the exact description of all which is at this time unknown to
your petitioner, but which is entirely community estate, the
value of which is about three hundred thousand dollars; that
there is personal property of various kinds, all of the same being community property of the value of about fifty thousand
dollars; that the total estate of said deceased, including the
community interest of your petitioner, who is the widow of the
said deceased, does not exceed in value the sum of about three
hundred and fifty thousand dollars."
In July, 1894, (evidently at the suggestion of counsel,) she
presented her claim under the policy, which was rejected, and
thereupon this suit to recover thereon was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington.
At -the time the application was made and the policy issued
the following statute was in force in the State of 1Nrew York:
"Section one of chapter 341 of the laws of eighteen hundred
and seventy-six, entitled an 'Act regulating the forfeiture of
life insurance policies,' is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
"SE. 1. No life insurance company doing business in the
State of New York shall have power to declare forfeited or
lapsed any policy hereafter issued or renewed by reason of nonpayment of any annual premium or interest, or any portion
thereof, except as hereinafter provided. Whenever any premium or interest due upon any such policy shall remain unpaid
when due, a written or printed notice stating the amount of
such premium or interest due on such policy, the place where
said premium or interest should be paid, and the person to whom
the same is payable, shall be duly addressed and mailed to the
person whose life is assured, or the assignee of the policy, if

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 331
State/ment of the Case.

notice of the assignment has been given to the company, at his
or her last known post office address, postage paid by the company,or by an agent of such company, or person appointed by
it to collect such premium. Such notice shall further state that
unless the said premium or interest then due shall be paid to
the company or to a duly appointed agent or other person authorized to collect such premium within thirty.days after the
mailing of such notice, the said policy and all payments thereon
will become forfeited and void. In case the payment demanded
by such notice shall be made within the thirty days limited
therefor, the same shall be taken to be in full compliance with
the requirements of the policy in.respect to the payment of said
premium or interest, anything therein contained to the contrary notwithstanding; but no such policy shall in any case be
forfeited or declared forfeited or lapsed until the expiration of
thirty days after the mailing of such notice. Provided, however, that a notice stating when the premium will fall due, and
that if not paid the policy and all payments thereon will become forfeited and void, served in the manner hereinbefore
provided, at least thirty and not more than sixty days prior to
the day when the premium is payable, shall have the same effect
as the service of the notice hereinbefore provided for.
"SEc. 2. The affidavit of any one authorized by section one
to mail such notice, that the same was duly addressed to the
person whose life is assured by the policy, or to the assignee of
the policy, if notice of the assignment has been given to the
company, in pursuance of said section, shall be presumptive evidence of such notice having been given." Act of May 23, 1877,
Laws of 1877, c. 321.
In 1892, and after the first default in the payment of premium by Phinney and the surrender of his policy to the agent,
Stinson, the following statute was substituted for the act of 1877:
"S1So. 92. No forfeiture of policy without notice.- No life
insurance corporation doing business in this State shall declare
forfeited, or lapsed, any policy hereafter issued or renewed, and
not issued upon the payment of monthly or weekly premiums,
or unless the same is a term insurance contract for one year or
less, nor shall any such policy be forfeited, or lapsed, by reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

of non-payment when due of any premium, interest or instalment or any portion thereof required by the terms of the policy
to be paid, unless a written or printed notice stating the amount
of such premium, interest, instalment, or portion thereof, due
on such policy, the place where it should be paid, and the person to whom the same is payable, shall be duly addressed and
mailed to the person whose life is insured, or the assignee of the
policy, if notice of the assignment has been given to the corporation, at his or her last known post office address, postage paid
by the corporation, or by an .officer thereof, or person appointed
by it to collect such premium, at least fifteen and not more than
forty-five days prior to the day when the same is payable.
"The notice shall also state that unless such premium, interest, instalment or portion thereof, then due, shall be paid to
the corporation or to a-duly appointed agent or person authorized to collect such premium by or before the day it falls due,
the policy and all payments thereon will become forfeited and
void, except as the right to a surrender value or paid-up policy
as in this chapter provided.
"If the payment demanded by such notice shall be made
within its time limited therefor, it shall be taken to be in full
campliance with the requirements of the policy in respect to
the time of such payment; and no such policy shall in any case
be forfeited or declared forfeited or lapsed, until the expiration
of thirty days after the mailing of such notice.
"The affidavit of any officer, clerk or agent of the corporation, or of any one authorized to mail such notice, that, the notice required by this section has been duly addressed and mailed
by the corporation issuing such policy, shall be presumptive evidence that such notice has been duly given." Laws 1892, c. 690.
The application made by Phinney-for the policy contained
this statement; "This application is made to the Mutual Life
Insurance Company of New York, subject to the charter of the
company and the laws of the State of New York." The policy
stipulated that on its maturing the insurance company would
"pay at its home office in the city, of New York." It also stipulated that the annual premium should be payable "to the con-

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 333
Counsel for Parties.

pany at its home office in the city of New York." The policy
al]so contained this provision:
"Payment of premiums.-Each prenium is due and payable
at the home office of the company in the city of New York,
but will be accepted elsewhere when duly made in exchange
for the company's receipt, signed by the president or secretary.
Notice that each and every such payment is due at the date
named in the policy is given and accepted by the delivery and
acceptance of this policy, and any further notice, required by
any statute, is thereby expressly waived."
In its answer the company pleaded that the contract was to
be taken as a contract made in the State of Washington, and
not controlled by the laws of the State of New York, because
the application stipulated that the contract "shall not take
effect until the first premium shall have been paid and the pc.licy shall have been delivered." In fact, the policy was delivered and the premium paid in the State of Washington. It
also pleaded the other provisions in reference to the failure to
pay the annual premium, and the waiver, abandonment and
rescission of the contract by the assured under the circumstances
hereinbefore named.
The case came on for trial on these pleadings before the
.court and a jury, and resulted in a verdict and judgment for
the plaintiff for the amount of the policy, less the unpaid premiums. The case was thereupon taken on error to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which
court dismissed the writ of error on the ground that it had no
jurisdiction by reason of a failure on the part of the plaintiff in
error to file the writ of error in the office of the clerk of the
trial court. 48 U. S. App. 78. Thereupon application was
made to this court, and the case brought here on certiorari.
.Mr.Julien T. Davies for petitioner. -Hr.Edward Lyman
Short, Xr. John B. Allen and Mr. FredericD. 3lcenney were
on his brief.
Mr. Stanton Warburton for respondent.
leigA was on his brief.

Mr. A. F. Bur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

BREWER,

)

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first question naturally is in respect to the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of Appeals. The transcript filed in that court,
in addition to the record of the proceedings on the trial, which
trial culminated in a judgment on October 17, 1895, contained:
First, a petition for a writ of error filed by counsel for the insurance company, on December 14, 1895; then an order by the
trial judge, allowing the writ of error and fixing the supersedeas bond at $125,000; an assignment of errors; a supersedeas
bond, approved by the trial judge; a citation signed by him,
and service admitted by counsel for the plaintiff, all these on
the same day. In addition, a return by the marshal, showing
personal service on the plaintiff of the citation; the writ of
error allowed by the trial judge, and an indorsement thereon
by the clerk of the trial court (by deputy) in the following
language:
"Received a. true copy of the foregoing writ of error for
defendant in error. Dated this 14th day of December, 1895.
A. Reeves Ayres, Clerk of the United States Circuit Court for
the Ninth Circuit, District of Washington. By R. M. Hopkins, Deputy Clerk."
On the hearing in the Court of Appeals an affidavit of the
deputy clerk of the trial court was filed, which, after averring
that the petition and assignment of errors, the orders granting
the writ of error, and fixing the amount of the bond, and the
bond, Were each on file in his office and all bore the following
indorsement: "Filed December 14, 1895. In the U. S. Circuit
Court. A. Reeves Ayres, Clerk. By R. M. Hopkins, Deputy
Clerk;" stated that upon the filing df these papers he prepared
a writ of error, issued and delivered it to R. C. Strudwick, one
of the attorneys of the insurance company, who took the same
from his office, and added:
"That a few minutes thereafter the said Strudwick returned
to my office, and delivered to and lodged and filed with me said
writ of error, with the allowance thereof indorsed thereon by
the before mentioned judge, and at the same time delivered to

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 335
Opinion of the Court.

and lodged and filed with me a copy of said writ for the use
of defendant in error.
"That said original writ of error remained in my office and
in my custody from said 14th day of December, 1895, until.the
4th day of January, 1896, at which time I transmitted the same,
with my return thereto, to this honorable court.
"That the original citation herein, a copy of which appears
on pages 395 and 396 of the printed record herein, was returned
to and filed with me by a deputy marshal of the United States
for the District of Washington, on the 18th day of December,
1895, and the same remained in my office and in my custody
and control from said date until the same -was transmitted to
this honorable court, together with the writ of error and return
thereto on the 4th day of January, 1896. It has not been my
custom to indorse original citations and writs of .error at the
time'they are filed with or served upon me, for the reason that
I have deemed the. same as writs of the Circuit Court of Appeals to be indorsed by the clerk of said court upon his receipt
of the same with my return thereto; but, as a matter of fact,
the writ of error and citation herein were actually delivered to
and filed and lodged with me as above stated."
I Upon these facts we are clearly of opinion that jurisdiction
was vested in the Court of Appeals. The majority of that
court, in sustaining the motion to dismiss, relied on the following
decisions of this court: Brooks v. Vorris, 11 How. 204-207;
ffuis8na v. Cavazo8, 6 Wall. 355; Scarboroughv. P argoud,108
U. S. 567; Polley8 v. Black River Improvement Co., 113 U. S.
81; Credit Company, Limited, v. Arkansas Central Railway
Co., 128 U. S. 258; in the first of which it was said by Chief
Justice Taney: "It is the Ailing of the writ that removes the
record from the inferior to the appellate court, and the period
of limitation prescribed by the act of Congress must be calculated accordingly. The day on which the writ may have been
issued by the clerk or the day on which it is tested are not material in deciding the question."
In that case the question presented was one of limitations,
and not what was necessary to constitute a filing. The statute
requiring writs of error to be brought within a certain time, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

question determined was whether the mere allowance or issue
of the writ constituted the bringing of the writ of error within
the meaning of the statute, or whether, as was held, it was not
brought, had not performed its office, until it had been filed with
the clerk of the trial court. In this case there is no question
of time. All the proceedings, with a view of taking the case
to the appellate court, were had within less than three months
from the date of the judgment. The transcript filed in the
Court of Appeals made it clear that everything which the trial
judge was required to do was done, the writ of error was allowed, the citation signed and bond approved, and also that the
citation was duly served upon the .counsel for the plaintiff, and
service accepted. It also showed that a copy of the writ of
error was received and filed by the clerk of the trial court, and
while it is true that it -did not show that the original writ of
error was filed in his office, yet the affidavit made by the deputy
clerk (which is not disputed) disclosed that it was so filed, and
on the same day with the other proceedings for perfecting the
transfer of the case to the Court of Appeals. Now, while it
may be technically true, as said by the majority of the Court
of Appeals, that the indorsement on the copy of the writ of
error of its receipt foi, the benefit of the defendant in error,
plaintiff below, was under section 1007 of the Revised Statutes,
with a view to a snpersedeas, and may not itself be sufficient
evidence of the filing of the original writ, yet the affidavit of
the deputy clerk, who had charge of the office, shows positively
that it was left with him and filed. If it was left with him
and he failed to indorse it as filed, can it be that his omission
defeats the party's right to transfer the case to the appellate
court? Is it within the power of a clerk to overrule the action
of the Judge, and prevent an appeal "or writ of error which he
has allowed? When the Judge has done all that is necessary
for him to do to perfect the transmission of the case to the appellate court, and the party seeking review has done all that is
required of him, can it be that the omission of a clerk (if there
was such an omission) can prevent the jurisdiction attaching to
the appellate court? Obviously not. "When deposited with
the clerk of the court, to whose. "udgesit is directed, it is served."

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 337
Opinion of the Court.

.Mu8sina v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355, 358. While we have always
been careful to see that the required order of procedure has
been complied with before any case shall be considered as transferred from a lower to a higher court, that the party seeking a
review must act in time and must make a substantial compliance with all that the statute prescribes, at the same time we
have been equally careful to hold that no mere technical omission which did not prejudice the rights of the defendant in
error should be made available to oust the appellate court of
jurisdiction. We are clear that upon the showing made the
Court of Appeals had jurisdiction, and should have proceeded
to dispose of the case upon its merits.
Coming now to the merits, many questions have been exhaustively discussed by counsel in brief and argument. One is,
to what extent, if at all, the law of New York controls in respect
to the policy sued on.
By the insurance company it is contended that it does not
apply; that it operates only upon contracts of insurance consummated within the State of New York; that it commences
"no life insurance company doing business in the State of New
York shall have power," etc.; that it thus includes foreign as
well as local insurance companies, and as it confessedly cannot
control the operations or modify the contracts of foreign insurance companies made outside the State, the true construction is
that it applies to both foreign and local companies only as to
business done within the State; that as the application was
signed by the insured in the State of Washington, and when
received by the company in New York was there accepted only
conditionally, and as the policy which was prepared and forwarded to an agent of the company in Washington contained
an express stipulation that it should not take effect until the
first premium shall have been paid and the policy shall have
been delivered," and as the premium was in fact paid and the
policy delivered in the State of Washington, the contract was a
Washington contract, and governed by the laws of that State
and not by the laws of New York, Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Clements, 140 U. S. 226, 232 ; that the statement in
the application signed by Phinney that it was made "subject
VOL. CIXXVIn-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to the charter of the company and the laws of New York," by
its terms refers only to the application, and does not make the
laws of New York controlling in reference to the terms of the
contract, which was evidenced by the policy subsequently issued;
and that being a Washington contract, and there being no
legislation in that State in respect to inatter of forfeiture, by
its terms it became forfeited on the non-payment of the second
annual premium.
On the other hand, it is contended by the executrix that,
whatever may be the effect of the statute upon foreign companies which may happen to be doing business within the limits
of New York, it is as to local companies practically a modification of their charters and a statutory rule thereafter controlling
all contracts made by them, whether within or without the
State; that even if this be not true, yet, as the policy refers to
the application and makes it a part of the contract, and as there
is nolaw of New York which affects in any way an application
as sueh, the statement therein, that it is made subject to the
charter of the company and the laws of New York, must be
understood as directly incorporating the laws of New York into
the contract, or at least referring to them as containing the
rules for its construction and enforcement; and also, inasmuch
as by its terms, final performance (that is, the payment of the
policy) is to be made in New York, the law of the place of performance is the law which governs as to the validity and interpretation of the contract. Washington CentralBank v. Hume,
128 U. S. 195 197, 206; Coghlan v. South Carolina Railroad,
142 U. S. 101, 109, and cases cited in the opinion.
We are not insensible of the importance as well as 6he difficulty of the question thus presented in these various aspects,
but think that the case may properly be disposed of without
any consideration or determination thereof.
We shall assume, without deciding, that the law of New York
does control in respect to this contract, and still are of the opinion that the judgment must be reversed for error occurring on
the trial, and error of such a character as in view of the testimony
may render it unnecessary ever to consider the question to
which we have referred. Confessedly, the insured did not pay

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 339
Opinion of the Court..

the annual premium due September 24, 1891, nor that due September 24, 1892, although he lived until September 12, 1893.
It appears from: the undisputed testimony that the insured knew
when the premium became due in September, 1891. Twice he
spoke to the local agent seeking to arrange for the payment of
the premium by a note, and some three or four months thereafter he surrendered the policy to such agent. It is true that
at the time of the surrender the agent told the insured that the
policy was forfeited, or words to that effect, and that. the insured said to him that as the policy had lapsed it was no good
to him, and the agent might take it if he wanted it. But never
thereafter uitil the time of his death, more than a year and a
half, was anything done or said by the insured in respect to the
policy; no suggestion of payment of premium or anything of
any kind in respect to it. He treated the matter as abandoned,
and gave up to the agent of the company the instrument by
which the contract was evidenced. Further, after his death
his widow, the plaintiff, filed an affidavit that the personal property of her husband's estate amounted only to $50,000, which,
of course, was not true if she had a $100,000 policy in the defendant company. Not only that, she ignored the policy altogether
for nearly ten months, although she promptly presented claims
under other policies. As she testified that she knew of the
existence of this policy her conduct is explainable only on the
theory that she understood that, which the evidence affirms,
her husband had abandoned the policy and surrendered it to
the company. Upon these facts the defendant asked this instruction, which the court declined to give:
"If you find from the evidence in this case that the said Guy
0. Phinney stated to the representative of the defendant in the
State of Washington that he could not pay the premium falling
due September 24, 1891, and that he did not pay nor tender the
same, and that he thereaftev surrendered said policy to the defendant's representative, they mutually believing and understanding that the same was of no force or validity then or
thereafter, by reason of the non-payment of the said premium,
this would constitute an abandonment and rescission of this
contract by both parties thereto, and would put an end to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

same; and if you find the facts so to be, you must find a verdict for the defendant."
In lieu thereof the court charged as follows:
"Now, it is contended that Mr. Phinney and this company,
acting through Mr. Stinson as its agent, arrived at an understanding and agreement that the policy should not continue
longer in force; Phinney was to pay no more money, and that
his rights and the policy were abrogated. Notwithstanding
the provision of the statute of New York, that a provision in
the policy itself waiving notice has no effect, and that the company can only forfeit the policy for non-payment of premium
by mailing the prescribed notice, still it would be competent,
and it was competent, for the parties mutually to agree to the
cancellation of a life insurance policy if they saw fit to do so.
And if the evidence in the case shows- that Mr. Phinney did
voluntarily, without being induced by any false representations
or deceit to give up the policy, rescind the contract and give up
the policy rather than to continue to pay the premiums provided
for in the policy, that agreement would have the effect to terminate this policy so that it would no longer be a continuing contract. There is testimony in the case tending to prove that Mr.
Phinney was unable to meet the second payment when it fell
due, and by reason of his failure to make that payment, he voluntarily delivered up the policy to Mr. Stinson as an agent of
the company, with the understanding, expressed at the time,
that it was lapsed, that it was no longer a continuing contract
in his favor. If there was a full and fair. understanding between these two men in that matter, and they both treated it
as an abrogated and annulled contract, and each relied upon
that understanding, it would have the effect to terminate the
policy, and the company would have the right to consider itself absolved from any obligation to give the statutory notice
in order to forfeit the policy, because it would be unnecessary
for the company to forfeit by legal proceedings what the opposite party had voluntarily relinquished. If is a question of fact,
therefore, for you to determine from the evidence in the case,
whether there was a full, complete understanding and meeting
of minds between Mr. Phinney and Mr. Stinson, and such an

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PHINNEY. 841
Opinion of the Court.

agreement and understanding entered into between them,
whether the policy was surrendered and delivered up to Mr.
Stinson, with an understanding, and whether relying upon that
understanding the defendant company subsequently acted."
In view of the facts heretofore narrated, it is obvious not
only that there was error in the action of the court in declining to give the instruction requested by the insurance company, and giving that which it did, but also that the error
was material. The instruction given suggested a matter in
respect to which there was no testimony,- yet whieh, in view
of other language in the charge, was quite sure to mislead. In
reference to' this matter of abandonment and rescission, the
court in effect declared that it was binding, unless induced by
false representation or deceit. There is not the slightest syllable in the testimony to suggest that the agent deceived the
insured, nor that he made a false representation in the sense
in which a false representation may avoid a contract. And
yet, as the court had already ruled that the law of New York
controlled, that there was no forfeiture until the notice prescribed by the statute of that State had been given, the jury
must have understood that when the agent said that the pol*icy had lapsed, he made a false representation, and, therefore,
that the action of the insured, based upon that false representation, did not amount to an abandonment. But whether that
statement of the agent was correct in matter of law is doubtful; whether true or false, or, more accurately, whether correct or not, in its interpretation of the law applicable to this
contract, is immaterial. It was merely a statement of what
he supposed the law was, and the insured was under the same
obligations to know the law that the company, or its agent
was. The jury evidently proceeded upon the supposition that
the insurance company, located in New York, knew what the
law of that State was; the insured, residing in Washington,
did not, and when the agent stated what the condition of the
contract was, he misrepresented the law of New York, of which
the insured was ignorant, and, being ignorant, was not bound
by any act based thereon in the way of abandonment or rescission. But surely no such rule as that obtains. When two par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ties enter into a contract, and make it determinable by the law
of another State, it is conclusively presumed that each of them
knows the law in respect to which they imake the 'contract.
There is no presumption of ignorance on the one side and
knowledge on the other. Reverse the situation. Suppose the
insurance company had made this contract as a Washington
contract, and there had been some peculiar provision of that
State controlling all contracts made within the State: could
the company, a corporation of Kew York, thereafter be permitted to say that it did not know what the law of Washington was; that the insured, as a resident of that State, must be
presumed to have known it; that he did not communicate his
information, and therefore it was not bound by that law, and
that if he said anything in reference to it, it was a case of
false representation or deceit? No one would contend this.
And so when these two parties, the insurance company and
the insured, dealing as we are now supposing in a contract
which they mutually agree should, be determinable by the
laws of New York, it is an absolute presumption that each
knew those laws, and that neither one could be misled by any
statement in respect thereto on the part of the other. Whatever opinion either might express in reference to those statutes, was a mere.matter of opinion. He was chargeable with
knowledge, just exactly as the insurance company was. Sturm
v. Boker, 150 U. S.312, is decisive of this question. In that
case the statement of the insured as to a question of law was
insisted upon as conclusive, but this court said (p. 336):
"Both the defendants and 'the insurance companies had the
written contracts before them, and were presumed, as a matter
of law, to know their legal effect and operation. What the
complainant said in his testimony was a statement of opinion
upon a question of law, where the facts were equally well known
to both parties. Such statements of opinion do not operate as
an, estoppel. If he had said, in express terms, that by that contract he was responsible for the loss, it would have been, under
the circumstances, only the expression of opinion as to the law
of the contract, and not a declaration or admission of a fact,

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.PHINNEY. 343
Opinion of the Court.

such as would estop him from subsequently taking a different
position as to the true interpretation of the written instrument.
"In Brant v. Virginia Coat & Iron Go., 93 U. S. 326, 337,
it was said: ' Where the condition of the title is known to both
parties, or both have the same means of ascertaining the truth,
there can be no estoppel.'
"So in Brewster v. Striker, 2 N. Y. 19, and Norton v. Coon,
6 N. Y. 33, and approved in Chatfeild v. Simonson et at.,
92 N. Y. 209, 218, where.it was ruled 'that the assertion of a
legal conclusion, where the facts were all stated, did not operate
as an estoppel upon the party making such assertion.'
So, whateirer the local agent may have said as to the condition of the contract, was a mere expression of opinion as to a
matter of law in respect to which both parties were equally
chargeable with knowledge. It seems to us clear that only because of the inference to be drawn from the rejection of the
instruction asked by the defendant, and the giving of the instruction with this suggestion of false representation or deceit,
can the verdict of the jury be accounted for.
Nor can we think that the action of the defendant in requesting, after the jury bad returned and asked certain questions,
which were answered by the trial judge, that he repeat the instructions theretofore given in respect to waiver and abandonment, is to be taken as an indorsement of those instructions.
After it had once excepted to the refusal of an instruction which
it had asked, and excepted to those that were given, it did not
lose the benefit of such exceptions by a request that the court
repeat the instructions excepted to in connection with certain
answers made to questions propounded by the jury. It meant
simply that if the court answered, as it did, the questions propounded by the jury, it ought to supplement those answers
with a restatement of the instructions theretofore given, and
asking that restatement was not an admission that they were
correct, but simply a request that they should be restated so
as to qualify the answers given to the questions.
In this connectidn we may be permitted to suggest that no
afterthought of ingenious and able counsel should be permitted
to disturb the understanding and agreement of the parties based

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

upon their belief as to what the law is, or to enforce a contract
which both parties concluded to abandon.
A single further matter requires notice, and we mention it
simply to indicate that we have considered, although we do not
decide, the question involved therein: The contract of insurance is a peculiar contract, especially when made with a mutual
insurance company, for although in terms a contract with a
corporation it is in substance a contract between the insured
and all other members of that company. The character of this
contract was fully considered and discussed by this court in
New York LJife Insurance Co. v. Statham, 93 U. S. 24, and to

that case we refer without quotation. Now, whether the insurance company, if the law of New York be applicable, could
insist upon a forfeiture without giving the notice prescribed by
the statutes of that State, and, enforcing it, forfeit all premiums
paid, all obligation for the return of the surrender value, all
right of the insured by subsequent payments to continue the
policy in force, is one question. But.it is a very different question whether the executrix of the insured, after his long delinquency in the payment of premiums, can enforce the contract
as against the other insured parties, thereby diminishing their
interest in the accumulated reserve. Ordinarily no one can enforce a contract unless on his part he performs the stipulated
promise, and it may be that this rule is operative in this case.
We do not care to decide the question, and only mention it for
fear that it should be assumed we had overlooked it. It is a
question which may never arise in the future litigation of this
case, and until it necessarily arises we do not feel called upon
to decide it.
For these reasons the judgments of the Court of -Appealsof
the 3Trinth Cicuit and of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the .Districtof Washington are reversed, and the
ease remanded to the latter court with instructionsto award
a new trial.
MR. JusTICE PEIKHAM did not sit at the hearing and took no

part in the decision of this case.

