OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

PITTSBURGH AND LAKE ANGELINE IRON COMPANY v. CLEVELAND IRON MINING CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 260. Argued April 24,25, 1900. -Decided

Mray 21,1900.

For the reasons set forth in the opinion of the court, the case was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
MXe. F. 0. Clark for plaintiff in error. "Mr.A~fr'ed Russell
was on his brief.
.X,. Benton Hanohettand .2Wr. James H. Hoyt for defendants
in error. 2fr. A. . Dustin and Xi%.. George Hayden were on
their briefs.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in errbr and the defendants in error were respectively plaintiff and defendant in the court below, and we
will so designate them. They were riparian owners on a body
of water called Lake Angeline, in the State of Michigan, and
this suit is to determine the extent of their respective -ownerships to the bed of the lake. They all derived title through
United States patents, and the controversy is claimed by plaintiff to arise from their construction and effect.
The trial court dismissed plaintiff's bill, and its action was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 76 -N.W. Rep. 395,
and this writ of error was then sued out.
A motion is made to dismiss for want of jurisdiction in this
court, on the ground that no Federal question was raised in the
state court, or, if one was raised, the decision of the state court
was rested on a question not Federal, which was sufficient to
sustain the judgment.
Under the circumstances of this case it will be more orderly

PITTSBURGH &c. I. CO. v. CLEVELAND I. M. CO. 271
Opinion of the Corot.

to consider the latter ground first, and its proper determination
requires a consideration of the opinion of the Supreme Court, of
its statement of facts (which we condense) and of its conclusions
from those facts:
"Lake Angeline was situated on sections 10, 11, and 15, T.
47 N., R. 27 W., and was within the corporate limits of the city
of Ishpeming, in Marquette County. It contained 148.61 acres
within the government meander lines. It was a mile in length
east and west, and 1690 feet in width on the centre line of section 10, which is its widest point.
"The three parties to this litigation own all the lands surrounding this lake; the complainant owning that part of section 15 bordering upon the lake; the defendant Cleveland-Iron
Mining Company owning that part of sections 10 and 11 bordering on the lake east of the centre line of section 10; and the
defendant Lake Superior Iron Company owning that part west
of said centre line. These three mining corporations have owned
this land about thirty years and have been engaged in mining
upon their respective properties for more than twenty years.
For the sake of brevity, these companies will be designated by
their initial letters."
No ore was known to exist in the bed of the lake until the
winter of 1886 and 1887, when it was discovered on territory
not owned by plaintiff, but plaintiff was informed of the discovery. Afterwards ore was discovered on its te.rritory. The
extent and locality of the ore beds were not exactly known, and
negotiations were entered into for pumping out the lake, and
ended in a contract between the parties.
It recited the discovery of the ore and the necessity of pumping out the lake, in order to "economically mine such ore as
lies under such portions of said bed as each of said parties is
respectively entitled to."
It provided for the purchase of a pumping apparatus which
one B. C. Howell had, and, in consideration of the "mutual
considerations received each from each, the receipt of which
is hereby respectively acknowledged."
The agreement then provided what-proportion of the cost of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the pumping' apparatus and plant should be respectively borne
by the parties both for its purchase and maintenance, and the
expenses of the work. And it was found by the Supreme
Court that the agreement was formally executed. The acknowledgment by plaintiff recited that it was done by its
president and secretary, and also that it was done on behalf
of the corporation.
The total cost of draining and keeping water out of the lake
until January 1, 18.97, was $76,488.38. "Of this the C. I. M.
Co. paid $44,149.68; the L. S. I. Co. $17,147.18; and the complainant $7801.38. The water under the southeast arm of the
lake was comparatively shallow. A vast body of mud was found
in the bottom of the lake, and the two defendants incurred an
expense, in attempting to remove it, of $20,22.7.53."
"After the execution of this contract, each party worked
upon its own property as defined thereby. The complainant
mined out all the valuable ore under the southeast arm, and
afterwards filled its opening with the waste rock. The L. S. I.
made explorations at considerable expense, and the C. M. I. Co.
made the five drill holes above referred to from the complainant's mine, and ran a drift through the rock underneath the
lake nearly to the south line of section 10, and, after. reaching
ore, ran drifts and cross cuts with a view to determining the
value of the ore and ascertaining if there was sufficient to
open and equip a mine. All this involved large expense.
"The section line was regarded as the line dividing these
properties. Nails were driven in the timbers underground to
indicate the line. In 1894.complainant made an innocent
trespass north of the line, for which an amicable settlement
was made. In 1896 the C. I. M. Co. trespassed upon complainant's property south of the line, and amicably settled for it.
IMaps were frequently exchanged with each other. Complainant asked and obtained permission from the C. I. M1. Co. for
the construction of a railroad track north of the section line,
which was constructed and has ever since been in operation by
complainant. On March 21,1894, the C. I. l. Co. executed a lease
to complainant, granting it the right to use land north of the
section line for stock-pit grounds and the erection of temporary

PITTSBURGH &c. I. CO. v. CLEVELAND I. M. CO. 273
Opinion of the Court.

structures for mining purposes.

Other acts also were done by

the respective parties in recognition of the fact that the south
line of section 10 was the boundary line as stated in the above
agreement. This state of affairs continued until November,
1896, when complainant served a notice upon the defendants
that it claimed title to certain lands north of the section line.
"Complainant commenced mining on lots four and five in
1863. The hill was very near the shore of the lake, and complainant dumped its waste rock into the lake and filled in several acres north of the section line. Upon this made land north
of the line it erected some buildings, the most of which it removed to the south of the line in 1887. Complainant filed its
bill of complaint November 23, 1896."
Chief Justice Grant, delivering the opinion of the court, stated
the theory of the plaintiff's bill to be"That the territory formerly covered by the waters of this
lake should be divided among the shore owners in proportion
to the amount of shore frontage owned by each; that such
ownership extends to the center of the lake to be equitably established by the court; and that such territory should be partitioned by convergent lines drawn from the outside limit of
each frontage to a convergent point called the equitable centre.
To the bill is attached a map purporting to contain such equitable division."
And after stating in what apportionment of the bed of the
lake this would result, stated the claims of the defendants as
follows:
"(1) The patent under which the defendant, the Cleveland
Iron Mining Company, claims title gave it title to the whole
east half of section ten (10) to the south line thereof, and complainant is barred from objecting to this claim because it has
treated a body of water covering a portion of that territory as
of no value, and joined in the draining of the water as if the
land was merely swampy ground valuable only when reclaimed
and made dry:land.
"(2) Because it has title by adverse possession for more than
fiftdn (15) years.
VOL. cLxxvni-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"(3) Because the south section line of ten (10) was fixed as a
'boundary by agreement between the parties, that agreement
being recognized and evidenced by the pumping contract and
its written adjuncts, and was followed by continuous acts of
recognition thereof and expenditures based thereon by both
parties.
"(4) Because the pumping contract is an estoppel by deed
against the complainant from now asserting title.
"(5) Because the. complainant is estopped by matter in pais
from asserting title to the land.
"(6) Because the complainant is estopped by its laches.
"(7) Because as a tenant of a portion of the premises in dispute complainant is estopped to deny defendant's title."
That of'Lake Superior Iron Company as follows:
"1. That there has been a practical division of the lake bed
between the parties; that contracts, explorations and mining
operations have been carried on on the strength of such division
for many years, in which large sums of money have been expended, without any certainty at the time of such expenditures
that returns wouldbe realized by the defendants therefrom, and
that, by such division and long course of construction between
the parties, the complainant is estopped to claim any portion of
the lake bed lying north of the section line.
"2. That the pumping contract, executed by the several parties, under their corporate seals, and expressly providing that it
shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the several
parties, making it a contract running with the land, amounts to
a division of the lake bed by deed duly executed by the several
parties.
"3. That the pumping contract is so entirely based upon the
division of the lake bed above mentioned, and said division
forms so essential a part of the contract, that, if such division
be set aside or disregarded, the contract itself must fall; that
in such case, not only is the agreement to continue the drainage
of the lake at an end, but either party has a right to demand
that the drainage of the lake must stop and the water allowed
to rise to its original level-a result which, after all that has

PIUSBURGH &c. 1. CO. v. CLEVELAND I. M. CO. 275
Opinion of the Court.

been done under the pumping contract, and in reliance upon it,
would work great injustice to the defendants.
"4. That if the original division of the lake be disregarded
and a new division must be made, such division must be made
by the middle line or thread of the lake, in accordance with the
common law rule for division of the bed of fresh water streams."
Commenting on the claims the learned Chief Justice said:
"The situation is anomalous and the books present no similar
case. In March, 1892, the parties entered into an agreement
to extinguish the lake by pumping out the water, leaving the
territory dry ground. They agreed upon an apportionment
of expense substantially according to the territory within the
lines of the government survey. The lake no longer exists.
Nearly five years after this suit is planted upon the theory that
the lake exists, and that the court must make an equitable division from a common equitable centre. All the parties, however, seem to have discussed the question as of a lake actually
in existence."
The difficulties of apportionment on plaintiff's theory were
stated, and the opinion proceeded as follows:
"The above statement is sufficient to show the difficulty in
making an equitable apportionment, and while nothing was
said during the negotiations leading up to the agreement, or in
the agreement itself, in regard to the difficulty, it may have
had much to do in the minds of the officers and agents of the
respective parties in fixing the terms of that agreement. That
contract was a deliberate settlement of the boundary line between the lands of the three companies, and was so understood.
It was of the utmost importance to these parties that the boundary line be settled beyond any possible doubt. Complainant
had discovered a mine on its territory, south of the line, and
extending under an arm of the lake. At that time it was the
only one which it was known would be benefited by the removal of the water. No ore of sufficient value to mine had
been found under the lake north of the .line. After the removal
of the water would come extensive and very expensive explorations to determine whether there existed under the bed of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lake ore worth mining. The contract, if valid, established the
line beyond dispute.
"The first obstacle for the complainant to remove, before resorting to an equitable apportionment, is this contract, recognized as valid, and acted upon for nearly five .years by all the
parties. It attempts to do this by asserting that in making
that contract it relied upon the case of Clute v. Fisher,65 Mich.
48, as establishing the rule that the territory should be divided
by the government lines, and that it rested upon that case as
the established law until the decision of Grand Rapids Ice &
Coal Co. v. South Grand Rapids Ice & Coal Go., 102 Mich. 227,
claiming that the latter overruled the former, and that in making that contract there was a mutual mistake which entitles it
to therelief prayed. The former case was decided in January,
1887, and the latter in June, 1894.."
The case of Clute v. Fisher was discussed, and disposing of
the question raised upon the theory that plaintiff relied upon
that case in its negotiations and co~ntract with the defendant,
and that all the parties so understood it, it was said:
"1We will first discuss and dispose of the question raised upon
the theory that complainant relied upon the decision of Clute
v. Fisher as an authoritative enunciation of the law in its negotiations and contract with the defendants, and that all the parties
so understood it. The following then is the situation: We find
that the parties in reliance upon that case entered into a deliberate contract establishing their boundary lines and determining the amount of territory belonging to each. Complainant
made the contract with knowledge that it gained territory south
of the line, known to be valuable, while it surrendered territory
north of the line, not then known to possess any value. All
parties are chargeable with knowledge that each was to incur
risks of its own, make its own expenditures upon its own land
according to the agreement, and, by reason of its expenditures
and improvements, would be placed in such a position that it
could not be restored to its former status quo.
"The anticipated result came. The explorations, expenditr
ures and improvements were made, each company making them
at its own risk. It is impossible to restore the status quo or to

PITTSBURGH &c. I. CO. v. CLEVELAND I.M. CO. 277
Opinion of the Court.

render exact justice between the parties, because the data are
not in existence. It is doubtful if a result approximately correct could be reached upon an accounting. It would be impossible to determine its correctness within many thousands of
dollars.
"The result of complainant's contention would be that, whenever any case has been overruled, every transaction or agreement based upon that decision may be set aside by the courts,
if not barred by the statute of limitations. The agreements and
settlements of parties, made with full knowledge of the facts
and in reliance upon the law, ought to be as binding as the
judgment of the court in a particular case. If ten other simiult v. Fisher was decided,
lar suits had been pending when
and judgment had been rendered in reliance upon that decision,
the courts "could now set them aside. The law is not so unstable as to permit such results. Judgments rendered and contracts made upon the faith of the law as enunciated in the decision of the court, in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation,
must stand. When the decision is overruled, the overruling
decision controls only subsequent transactions. Such is the rule
recognized by the decisions and text writers."
The opinion then proceeded to say that the mistake of plaintiff was one of law, and the case was "st r i pped of all other
circumstances. It contains no element of misrepresentation,
imposition, suppression, undue influence, undue confidence, imbecility or surprise. Neither said or did anything to mislead
the other. Each acted with deliberation and with complete
knowledge of all the facts. The sole basis of complainant's
claim is that the decision of this court, upon the faith of which
the contract was made, was subsequently overruled."
And it was decided that the case did not come "within any
exception to the rule that a mistake of law does not furnish
any ground for relief."
It was then considered if the contract settling the boundary
line and acquiescence therein and the acts done thereunder estopped plaintiff from asserting a different line, and it was held
that it did against the claim that the statute of frauds prevented
estoppel - against the claim that a corporation could not settle

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

a boundary line without a meeting and vote of its stockholders.
"The contract was the act of the three parties to it," the court
said,
"It was introduced by the complainant as a valid contract.
It was executed with all the formalities of a deed. It had the
seal of the corporation. Complainant, as well as the defendants, paid out, large sums of money under it. All-are now estopped to deny its due execution and validity.
"Complainantis entirely without equity. It doubted the correctness of the rule of Clute v. Fisher,and thought that a different rule might sometime prevaiL It was then its duty to
take steps to test the question befor'e permitting defendants to
enter into a contract and explorations involving over $100,000.
It should at least have informed the defendants of its claims,
and given them the opportunity to make a contract with that
in view.
"This claim would not have been heard of unless the 0. I. Al.
Co. had developed a valuable mine. The fact that the venture
proved successful after large expenditure creates no equity for
this complainant. The skill, energy and money of that company .developed a valuable property. It ought in justice to
reap the benefit, and the complainant ought to be estopped to
participate in the benefit, unless an unbending rule of law prevents. Twin Lick Oil Co. v. ffarbury, 91 U. S. 592; Clegg v.
Edmondson, 8 De G. M. &. G. '787.
"It would not have offered to bear its share of the loss if
unsuccessful, nor could it have been compelled to.
"Furthermore, it was guilty of laches in keeping silence when
it ought to have spoken. Everyone is presumed to know the
law. Therefore, it must be presumed to have known of the
law enunciated in Grand Rapids Ice & Coal Co. v. South Grand
Rapids Ice & Coal Co. It had an able attorney, who keeps
well versed in the decisions of the courts of this State. Yet it
waited two years and a.half before asserting its claim, and
still nine months after obtaining the opinion of its attorney
that Clute v. Fisher was no longer the law. It waited until

PITTSBURGH &c. I. CO. v. CLEVELAND I. M. CO. 279
Opinion of the Court.

circumstances and conditions have so changed that it is impossible to restore the status quo."
It is manifest that the Supreme Court rested its decision on
the grounds (1) that the pumping contract was a settlement of
boundaries between the contestants; (2) that what was done
and expended under it worked an estoppel against the plaintiff; (3) laches of the plaintiff, in asserting its claim whereby
the status quo could not be restored.
It requires no argument to demonstrate that neither of these
grounds involves a Federal question. But plaintiff in error contends that they were all made to depend upon a Federal question, which ilie court erroneously decided, and therefore that
they necessarily involve such question.
It is claimed to arise under conflicting claims under United
States patents. "This," counsel for plaintiffs say, "presents
the fundamental Federal questions [the italics are counsel's]
involved in this case, viz,: Did the domlainant acquire title to
the centre of the lake by virtue of its. ownership of said govermnent lots 2, 3, -4 and 5; or did defendants obtain title by
virtue of their several patents, to a point where the south line
of section 10, if projected east and west through the water of
the lake, would run? " And this asserted Federal question is
said to have been decided by the Supreme Court of Michigan
in the following language of its opinion: "The Cleveland Iron
Mining Co. claimed title by virtue of the original patent. Complainant owned no specific piece of land north of the section
line, even under its own theory, which could be measured by
metes and bounds. How much, if any, it owned could only be
determined by agreement or the decree of a court of equity."
What this language means we do-not think the opinion of
the court leaves in doubt. But whether plaintiff did or did not
own land of section 10 which could be or could not be measured by metes and bounds; whatever its rights and the rights
of the other parties were, they could be settled by agreement,
and could be made the foundation of business transactions' and
enterprises. The Supreme Court determined they were so made
and could be so made under the laws of Michigan.
But again, and whatever the error in that conclusion, (we do

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

not assert there was any,) the court decided, as an independent
ground of estoppel, that plaintiff'was guilty of laches, and that
was sufficient to sustain its judgment.
The case must, therefore, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and it is so ordered.

CORRALITOS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE-COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 267. Submitted April 24, 1900.- Decided Bray 28, 1900.
The appellant herein filed its original petition in the Court of Claims against
the United States and the Apache Indians on September 6, 1892. Subsequently and by leave of court an amended petition was filed March 2,
1894, from which it appears that the petitioner is a corporation chartered
under the laws of the State of New York and doing business in the state
of Chihuahua, county of Guleana, Republic of Mexico, and that property
to the value of nearly seventy-five thousand dollars, belonging to the
petitioner, and situated at the time in the Republic of Mexico, was taken
therefrom in 1881 and 1882, and stolen and carried off by the Apache Indians, then in amity with the United States, and brought from the Republic of Mexico into the United States. By virtue of the act of Congress
entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication and payment of claims
arising from Indian depredations," approved March 3, 1891, judgment
for the value of the property thus taken by the Indians was demanded.
The United States filed a plea in bar, alleging that the claimant ought
not to have and maintain its suit, "because the depredation complained
of is alleged to have occurred in the Republic of Mexico, beyond the
jurisdiction of the United States and the courts thereof, and that the
court, therefore, had no jurisdiction to entertain this suit." The plaintiff demurred to the plea in bar as bad in substance. The Court of Claims
overruled the demurrer, sustained the plea in bar, and dismissed the petition. Held that the judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it
must be affirmed.

THE appellant herein filed its original petition in the Court
of Claims against the United States and the Apache Indians on
September 6, 1892. Subsequently and by leave of court an
amended pdtition was filed March 2, 1894, from which it ap-

