NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. CRAVENS.

389

Statement of the Case.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
CRAYENS.

.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 262. Argued April 25,1900.-Decided May 28, 1900.
The contract for life insurance in this case, made by a New York insurance
company in the State of Missouri, with a citizen of that State, is subject
to the laws of that State regulating life insurance policies, although the
policy declares "that the entire contract contained in the said policy and
in this application, taken together, shall be construed and interpreted as
a whole and in each of its parts and obligations, according to the laws of
the State of New York, the place of the contract being expressly agreed
to be the principal office of the said company in the city of New York."
The power of a State over foreign corporations is not less than the power
of a State over domestic corporations.
The business of insurance is not commerce, and the making of a contract
of hisurance is a mere incident of commercial intercourse in which there
is no difference whatever between insurance against fire, insurance against
the perils of the sea, or insurahce of life.

THE controversy in this case is as to the amount due upon a,
policy of insurance issued by the plaintiff in error, upon the life
of John K. Cravens, husband of the defendant in error.
The contention of the plaintiff in error is that there is only
due on the policy, if anything, the sum of $2670 ; that of defendant in error is that she is entitled to the full amount of the
policy, to wit, $10,000, less unpaid premiums.
These contentions depend chiefly for solution on the statute
of Missouri, inserted in the margn,' Missouri Rev. Stat. 1879,
ISEc. 6983. Policies non-forfeitable, when.-No policies of insurance on
life hereafter issued by any life insurance company authorized to do business in this State, on and after the first day of August, A.D. 1879, shall,
after payment upon it of two full annual premiums, be forfeited or become
void bi reason of the non-payment of premiums thereon, but it shall be
subject to the following rules of commutation, to wit: The net value of the
policy when the premium becomes due and is not -paid shall be computed
upon the American experience table of mortality, with four and one half
per cent interest per annum, and after deducting from three fourths of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

c. 119, Art. 2, and the issue arising is, whether the defendant
in error, as beneficiary in the policy because of the payment of
such net value gfy notes or other indebtedness to the company, given on
account of past premium payments on said policy issued to the insured,
which indebtedness shall then be cancelled, the balance shall be taken as a
net single premium for temporary insurance for the full amount written
in the policy, and the term for which such temporary insurance shall be in
force shall be determined by the age of the person whose life is insured at
the time of default of premium, and the assumption of mortality and interest aforesaid; but if the policy shall be an endowment, payable at a certain
time, or at death" if it should occur previously, then if what remains as
aforesaid shall exceed the net single premium of temporary insurance for
the remainder of the endowment term for the full amount of the policy,such excecs shall be considered as a net single premium, for a pure endowment of so much as such premium will purchase, determined bythe age of
the insured at date, bf defaulting the payment of premium on the original
policy, and the table of mortality and interest as aforesaid, which amount
shall be paid at the end of the original term of endowment, if the insured
shall then be alive.
SE.c. 5984. A paid-up policy may be demanded, when.-At any time after
the payment of two or more full annual premiums, and not later than sixty
days from the beginning of the extended insurance provided in the preceding section, the legal holder of the policy may demand of the company,
and the company shall issue its paid-up policy, which, in case of an ordinary life policy, shall be for such an amount as the net value of the original
policy at the age and date of lapse, computed according to the American
experience table of mortality, with interest at the rate of four and a half
per cent per annum, without deduction of indebtedness on account Qf said
policy, will purchase, applied as a single premium upon the table rates of
the company, and in case of a limited payment life. policy, or of a continued
payment endowment policy payable at a certain time, or of a limited payment endowment policy, payable at a certain time, or at death, it shall be
for an amount bearing such proportion to the amount of the original policy
as the number of complete annual premiums actually paid shall bear to
the number of such premiums stipulated to be paid: Provided, that from
such amount the company shall have the right to deduct the net reversionary value of all indebtedness to the company on account of such policy:
and provided further, that the policy holder shall, at the time of making
demand for such paid-up policy, surrender the original policy, legally discharged, at the parent office of the company.
SEc. 5985. Rule of payment on commuted policy.-If the death of the insured occur within the term of temporary insurance covered by the value
of the policy as determined in section 5983, and if no condition of*the insurance other than the payment of premiums shall have been violated by
the insured, the company shall be bound to pay the amount of the policy,

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. CRAVENS.

391

Statement of the Case.

four annual premiums, and notwithstanding the omission to pay
the fifth and sixth annual premiums, is entitled to extended insurance as provided in section 5983, that is, to the full amount
of the policy less unpaid premiums, or is entitled to the amount
of commuted insurance tendered by plaintiff in error.
The case was submitted upon an agreed statement of facts

substantially as follows:
That the defendant is a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the State of New York as a mutual life insurance company, without capital stock, having its chief office
in the city of New York, and was, at the date of issuing the
policy in question and since has been engaged in the business
of insuring lives through branch offices in the different States
and Territories of this country and certain foreign countries;
and that it maintains agents and examiners in the State of

Missouri.
On May 2, 1887, the local agent of the company solicited John
K. Cravens, at his residence in Missouri, to insure his life in the
the same as if there had been no default in payment of premiums, anything
in the policy to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, however, that
notice of the claim and proof of the death shall be submitted to the company in the same manner as provided by the terms of the policy, within
ninety days after the decease of the insured; and, provided, also, that the
company shall have the right to deduct from the amount insured in the
policy the amount compounded at six per cent interest per annum of all
the premiums that had been forborne at the time of the decease, including
the whole of the year's premiums in which the death occurs, but such premiums shall in no case exceed the ordinary life premium for the age at issue,
with interest as last aforesaid.
SEc. 5986. The foregoing provisions not applicable, when.-The three
preceding sections shall not be applicable in the following cases, to wit: If
the poli.ey shall contain a provision for an unconditional cash surrender
value at least equal to the net single premium for the temporary insurance
provided hereinbefore, or for the unconditional commutation of the policy
to non-forfeitable paid-up insurance for which the net value shall be equal
to that provided for in section 5984, or if the legal bolder of the policy
shall, within sixty days after default of premium, surrender the policy
and accept from the company another form of policy, or if the policy shall
be surrendered to the company for a consideration adequate in the judgment of the legal holder thereof, then, and in any of the foregoing cases,
this act shall not be applicable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
*Statement of the Case.

company, and thereupon Cravens signed and delivered to the
local agent a written application for the policy in suit. The
application was made a part of the policy, and. contained the
following provisions:
"That inasmuch as only the officers of the home office of the
said company in the city of New York have authority to determine whether or not a policy shall issue on any application,
and as they act on the written statements and. representations
referred to, no statements, representations, promises or information made or given by or to the person soliciting or taking this
application for a policy, or by or to any other person, shall be
binding on said company, or in any manner affect its rights,
unless such statements, representations, promises or information
be reduced to writing and presented to the officers of said company, at the home office, in this application.
"That the contract contained in such policy and in this application shall be construed according to the laws of the State of
iNew York, the place of said contract being agreed to be the
home office of said company in the city of New York."
The application was signed by the agent of the company and
forwarded to the latter's home office in New York, and thereupon the policy in suit was issued and transmitted to Kansas
City by the company to its agent, who there received the same,
and there delivered it to Cravens on the 20th of AMay, 1S87, and
collected the first premium provided to be paid.
Four annual premiums of $5S9.50 each were paid in Missouri.
The fifth and sixth premiums were not paid. Cravens died November 2, 1892, in Missouri, and proof thereof was dulr made.
The company had different forms of policies, and Cravens
selected a non-forfeiting limited tontine policy, fifteen years'
endowment, with the limited premium return plan of insurance.
This plan is described in the policy as follows:
"This policy is issued on the non-forfeiting limited tontine
policy plan, the particulars of which are as follows:
"That the tontine dividend period for this policy shall be
completed on the 11th day of May, in the year nineteen hundred
and two.
"That no dividend shall be allowed or paid upon this policy

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. CRAVENS.

393

Statement of the Case.
unless the person whose life is hereby insured shall survive until
completion of its tontine dividend period, and unless this policy
shall then be in force.
"That surplus or profits derived from such policies on the
non-forfeiting limited tontine policy plan as shall not be in force
at the date of the completion of their respective tontine dividend periods, shall be apportioned among such policies as shall
complete their tontine dividend periods."
At the end of the tontine period certain, benefits were to be
allowed, which are stated in the policy, but which need not be
repeated.
The policy also contained the following provision:
"That if the premiums are not paid, as hereinafter provided,
on or before the days when due, then this policy shall become
void, and all payments previously made shall be forfeited to
the company, except that if this policy, after being in force
three full years, shall lapse or become forfeited for the nonpayment of any premium, a paid-up policy will be issued on
demand within six months after such lapse, with the surrender
of this policy, under the same conditions as this policy, except
as to payments of premiums, but without participation in profits,
for an amount equal to as many fifteenth parts of the sum
above insured as there shall have been complete annual premiums paid hereon when said default in the payment of premiumn shall be made; and all right, claim or interest arising,
under statute or otherwise, to or in any other paid-up policy or
surrender value, and to or in any temporary insurance, whether
required or provided for by the statute of any State, or not, is
hereby expressly waived and relinquished."
The total number of policies, of the plan of the policy in suit,
issued in the year 1887 to the residents of all states and countries where the company was doing business was 5172, covering an aggregate of insurance of $20,154,981.
The amount of paid-up insurance to which the policy was
entitled, at the date of lapsing, was $2670. No demand was
made for it within six months after default, or at any time.
Upon the death of Cravens the company offered to waive the
failure to make such demand, and tendered defendant in error,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

and still tenders her, the amount of such paid-up policy, which
she declined, and still declines.
On the 11th of May, 1891, Cravens was fifty-three years old,
"and the term of temporary insurance procured at that date
by three fourths of the net value of the policy, taken as a single
premium for the amount written in the policy, was six years
and forty-six days from the 11th day of May, 1891, making
said policy, if subject to said extended insurance, in force at
the death of the said Cravens."
The defendant in error claims under the policy $10,000, less
the amount of unpaid premiums, with interest thereon, which
left a balance of $8749.21, with interest at six per cent from
November 30, 1892. The plaintiff in error admitted and offered
to pay the sum of $2670, which plaintiff in error declined to
receive.
The trial court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff (defendant in error) for the sum of $2670.
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment
was reversed, and the case was remanded with directions to
enter judgment for plaintiff (defendant in error) for the sum
of $8749.21, with interest at six per cent from November 30,
1892.
The case was then brought here.
It is urged as error against the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State that it makes the law of Missouri and not
the law of New York the law of the contract, as provided in
the application for the policy, thereby denying to the plaintiff
in error a contractual liberty without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States; and that the statute of Missouri is an attempted
regulation of interstate commerce.
.[ir. Frederick N. Judson for plaintiff in error. -H. George
V. ffubbell was on his brief.
[r.William B. C. Brown for defendant in error. -YrL. J.
V7. C. Carnes and Xr. James .Cravens were on his brief.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. CRAVENS.

395

Opinioa of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error presents its contentions in many forms,
but they are all reducible to one, to wit, that the statute of
Missouri has been decided to supersede the terms of the policy,
and to be the rule and measure of the rights and obligations of
the parties, notwithstanding the application for the policy.declares "that the entire contract contained in the said policy and
in this application, taken together, shall be construed and interpreted as a whole and in each of its parts and obligations,
according to the laws of the State of New York, the place of
the contract being expressly agreed to be the principal office of
the said company, in the city of New York."
What, then, is the meaning of the Missouri statute, or, rather,
what meaning did the Supreme Court declare it to have?
It declared that the statute did not have the meaning the trial
court decided it to have. In other words, it declared that the
policy did not come within the exception of the statute providing for paid-up insurance, in lieu of temporary insurance, which
was one of the contentions of the plaintiff in error, and on account of which it had tendered the Sum of $2670, and sustaining
which the trial court rendered its judgment.
With this part of the opinion, however, we have no concern.
Our review is only invoked of that part of the opinion which
decides that the Missouri statute is the law of the policy, and
which annuls the provisions of the policy which contravene the
statute. And even of this part our inquiry is limited. If we
are bound by the interpretation of the statute we need not review the reasoning by which that interpretation was reached.
And we think we are bound by it.
The court said, though more by inference than by direct expression, that the.statute was a condition upon the right of insurance companies to do business in the State.
This conclusion it fortified by the citation of cases, and said.

(148 Mo. 583);
"Foreign insurance companies which do business in this State'
do sb, not by right, but by grace, and must in'so doing con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

form to its laws; they cannot avail themselves of its benefits
without bearing its burdens. Moreover, the State may prescribe
conditions upon which it will permit foreign insurance companies to transact business within its- borders or exclude them
altogether, and in so doing violates no contractual rights of the
company. State v. Stone, 118 Mo. 388; .Daggsv. .Ins. Co., 136
Mo. 382; S. C. 172 U. S. 557."

And further:
"As the non-forfeiture clause in section 5983 does not come
within the exceptions specified in section 5986, it would seem
that the provision in the policy with respect to its forfeiture or
lapse after being in force three full years, by the non-payment
of premiums, is void and of no effect, and that such statutory
provision cannot be waived.
"It is well settled that the legislature of the State has the
power to pass laws regulating and prescribing rules by which
foreign insurance companies may do business in this State, and
to prohibit them from doing so altogether if inclined. Paul
v. TVirginia,'8 Wall. 168; State v. Stone, &upra;Ifooper v.
California, 155 U. S. 648; Daggs v. -itsurance Co., szqn a.
This case has recently 'been affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
"It logically follows that in passing the sectiQns of the statute quoted the legislature did not exceed the powers conferred
upon it by the state constitution, and that such legislation is
not in conflict with any provision of the Constitution of the
United States."
From the Missouri law as thus established, may the plaintiff
in error claim exemption by virtue of the Constitution of the
United States ?
What the powers of a corporation are in relation to the State
of its creation-what the powers of a corporation are in relation to a state where it is permitted to do business, was declared early in the existence of this court, and has been repeated many times since. What those powers are we took
occasion to repeat in JTaters-PierceOil Co. v. The State of
Texas, decided at the present term. 177 U. S. 28.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. CRAVENS.

397

Opinion of the Court.

The case arose from a liberty of contract asserted by the
Waters-Pierce Oil Company against certain statutes of the State
of Texas prohibiting contracts in restraint of competition in
trade. The statute was not only assailed because it took away
the liberty of contract, but because it discriminated betweenpersons and classes of persons. The latter ground we declined
to consider, because it did not arise on the record. Of the
former we said:
"The plaintiff in error is a foreign corporation, and what
right of contracting has it in the State of Texas? This is the
only inquiry, and it cannot find an answer in the rights of natural persons. It can only find an answer in the rights of corporations and the power of the State over them. What those
kights are and what that power is has often been declared by
this court.
"A corporation is the creature of the law, and none of its
powers are original.. They are precisely what the incorporating
act has made them, and can only be exerted in the manner
which that act authorizes. In other words, the State prescribes
the purposes of a corporation and the means of executing those
purposes. Purposes and means are within the State's control.
This is true as to domestic corporations. It has even a broader
application to foreign corporations."
And as the state court had held that the statute was a condition imposed upon the oil company doing business within the
State, we said of the statute that, "whatever its limitations
were upon the power of contracting, whatever its discriminations were, they became conditions of the permit and were accepted with it."
We stated the exceptions of the rule to be "only cases where
a corporation created by one State rests its right to enter another and engage in business therein upon the Federal nature
of its business."
Is the plaintiff in error within the exception? If not, the
pending controversy must be determined against it.
It is difficult to give counsels' contentions briefly and at the
same time clearly, nor are we sure that we can distinguish by
precise statement the arguments directed to the invalidity of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute of Missouri as an unconstitutional interference with
the contractual liberty of the plaintiff in error, from the arguments which assail the statute as an attempted regulation of
.commerce between the States. This, however, not on account
of any want of clearness in counsel's argument, but on account
of the many ways which they have presented and illustrated
the argument, and which cannot be noticed in detail without
making this opinion too long. We realize the propositions are
not the same and should not be confused, though made somewhat
dependent upon a common reasoning.
1. A policy of mutual life insurance, it is contended, is an
interstate contract, and the parties may choose its "applicatory
law." Instances under the law of usury, instances under private international law, are cited as examples and authority.
But if such cases apply at all, they necessarily have limitation
n the -policy of the State. This is not denied, but it is contended that contracting for New York law to the exclusion of
Missouri law was "in nowise prejudicial to the interests of the
State.of Missouri or violative of its public policy."
But the interests of the State must be deemed to be expressed
in its laws. The public policy of the State must be deemed to
be authoritatively declared by its courts. Their evidence we
cannot oppose by speculations or views of our own. Nor can
such interests and policy be changed by the contract of parties. Against them no intention will be inferred or be permitted to be enforced.
In passing on the statute in controversy we said, by Mr. Justice Gray, in Equitale Life Assurance Society v. Clements, 140
U. S.226:
"The manifest object of this statute, as of many statutes regulating the forms of policies of insurance on lives or against fires,
is to prevent insurance companies from inserting in their policies
conditions of forfeiture or restriction, except so far as the statute permits. The statute is not directory only, or subject to be
set aside by the company with the consent of the assured; but
it is mandatory and controls the nature and terms of the contract into which the company may induce the assured to enter.
This clearly appears from the unequivocal words of command

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO'. v.CRAVENS.

399

Opinion of the Court.

and of prohibition above quoted, by which, in see. 5983, Ino
policy of insurance' issued by any life insurance company authorized to do business in this state I shall, after the payment of
two full-annual premiums, be forfeited or become void by reason
of the non-payment of premium thereon; but it shall be subject to the following rules of commutation;' and in sec. 5985,
that if the assured dies within the term of temporary insurance,
as determined in the former section, 'the company shall be
bound to pay the amount of the policy,' ' anything in the policy
to the contrary notwithstanding."'
And after stating the cases in which the terms of the policy
are permitted to differ from the plan of the statute, it was
further said:
"It follows that the insertion, in the policy, of a provision
for a different rule of commutation from that prescribed by the
statute, in case of default of payment of premium after three
premiums have been paid; as well as the insertion, in the applica.
tion, of a clause by which the beneficiary purports to 'waive
and relinquish all right or claim to any other surrender value
than that so provided, whether required by a statute of any
State or not ; 'is an ineffectual attempt to evade and nullify the
clear words of the statute."
In Orient Insurance Comlpany v. -Dagg8, 172 IT. S. 557, the
insurance company contended it had the constitutional right to
limit by contract its liability to actual damages caused by fire
against the provision of the statute which made, in ease of total
loss, the amount for which the property was insured the measure of damages. We sustained the statute independently of the
ground that it was a condition of the permission of the company
to do business in the State. We sustained it on the ground of
the clear right of the State to pass it, and to accomplish its purpose by limiting the right of the insurer and insured to contract in opposition to its provisions.
Further comment on this head may not be necessary, and we
only continue the discussion in deference to the insistence of
counsel upon the interstate character of the policy in suit. It
is the basis of every division of their argument, and an immunity
from control is based upon it for plaintiff in error, which, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

seems to be conceded, the State can exert over corporations of
its own creation.
An interstate character is claimed for the policy, as we under-stand the argument, because plaintiff in error is a New York
corporation and the insured was a citizen of Missouri; and because, further, the plaintiff in error did business in other States
and countries. Does not the argument prove too much? Does
it depend upon the residence of plaintiff in error in New York?
If so, it would seem. that every contract between citizens of different States becomes at once an interstate contract, and may
be removed from the control of the laws of the State at the
choice of parties. If the argument does not depend on the
residence of the plaintiff in error, but on the other elements, a
Missouri insurance corporation can have the same relation to
them as plaintiff ,in error, and can be, as much as plaintiff in
error claims to be, "the administrator of a fund collected from
the policy holders in different States and countries for their
benefit "-the condition which plaintiff in error claims demonstrates the necessity of a uniform law to be stipulated by the
parties exempt from the interference or the prohibition of the
State where the insurance company is doing business. And yet
plaintiff in error seems to concede that such power of stipulation Missouri corporations do not have, while it, a foreign corporation and because it is a foreign corporation, does have.
After stating the necessity of a uniform law and an equal
necessity that parties may stipulate for it, counsel for plaintiff
in error say:
"It necessarily follows, therefore, that the- insurance policy
contracts of foreign insurance companies, as contracts of other
foreign corporations, made by them with the citizens of a State,
when doing business in that State through the comity of the
State, are like the contracts of natural persons, subject to the
limitations of their own charters, and the situs of such contracts
is to be determined by the fundamental rules of ' universal law.'
"As will be hereafter seen, this status as foreign corporations
does not mean that they were not subject to the laws of the
State enacted in the full plenitude of the police power of the
State. The State doubtless could limit their contractual power
by prohibiting the making of certain contracts. But unless the

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. CRAVENS.

401

Opinion of the Court.

foreign corporation is reincorporated as a domestic corporation,
it remains a foreign corporation, and its contracts with citizens
of the State. are interstate contracts, subject to the right of
choice of law thereof, which is inherent in the law of interstate
contracts."
A foreign corporation undoubtedly is not a domestic corporation, and the distinction must often be observed, but the deduction from it by plaintiff in error cannot be maintained.
The power of a State over foreign corporations is not less
than the power of a State over domestic corporations. No case
declares otherwise. We said in Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs,8upra:
"That which a State may do with corporations of its own
creation it may do with foreign corporations admitted into the
State. This seems to be denied, if not generally, at least as to
plaintiff in error. The denial is extreme and cannot be maintained. The power of a State to impose conditions upon foreign corporations is certainly as extensive as the power over
domestic corporations,.and is fully explained in ffoo per v. California, 155 U. S.648, and need not be repeated."
2. Is the statute an attempted regulation of commerce between the States? In other words, is mutual life insurance
commerce between the States?
That the business of fire insurance is not interstate commerce
is decided in PauZ v. 'irginia, 8 Wall. 168; Liverpool Ins. Co.
v. ass., 10 Wall. 566; .Pila.Fire A sao. v. -ew York, 119
U. S.110. That the business of 'marine insurance is not is de-cided in Hooper v. California,155 U. S.648. In the latter case
it is said that the contention that it is "involves an erroneous
conception of what constitutes interstate commerce."
We omit the reasoning by which that is demonstated, and
will only repeat, "The business of insurance is not commerce.
The contract of insurance is not an instrumentality of commerce. The making of such a contract is a mere incident of
commercial intercourse, and in this respect there is no difference
whatever between insurance against fire and insurance against
the 'perils of the sea."' And we add, or against the uncertainty of man's mortality..
Judgment aj#rmed.
VOL. o-xxv=-26

