SMILEY v. HOLM.
Syllabus.

352

In this case, as in Heiner v. Donnan, the decedent,
within two years prior to his death, had made transfers
inter vivos without consideration which were complete
and irrevocable. The commissioner included the value of
the property so transferred in the value of the gross
estate, and assessed a death transfer tax accordingly.
Following a claim for refund and its rejection, the executor brought this action to recover the amount of the
tax attributable to such inclusion. The trial court found
that in fact none of the transfers had been made in contemplation of death, and rendered judgment for the
executor for the amount claimed, on the ground that
§ 302 (c) violated the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment and was therefore unconstitutional.
Our decision in Heiner v. Donnan requires an affirmative answer to the question submitted.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

dissent.

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
SMILEY v. HOLM, SECRETARY OF STATE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 617. Argued March 16, 17, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.
1. The function of a state legislature in prescribing the time, place
and manner of holding elections for Representatives in Congress
under Constitution, Art. 1, § 4, is a law-making function in which
the veto power of the state governor participates if, under the state
constitution, the governor has that power in the making of state
laws. P. 365.
2. The rule giving weight to practical construction is especially
applicable in the case of a constitutional provision which governs
the exercise of political rights and hence is subject to constant and
careful scrutiny. P. 369.

OCTOBER TERM, 131.
Argument for Respondent.

285U.S.

3. Where the number of Representatives in Congress to which a
State is entitled under the present apportionment pursuant to the
Act of Juno 18, 1929, is the same a. the number under the last
previous apportionment (Act of August 8, 1911) and the election
districts are unchanged, elections of Representatives may be conducted in the same manner as before the reapportionment. P. 374.
4. Where the number of Representatives for a State has been increased by the new apportionment, the additional Representatives,
if no new districts are created, may be elected by the State at large
under the lause of the Constitution (Art. I, § 2) providing that
The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members
chosen every second year by the People of the several States."
Id.
5. Where the number of Representatives has been decreased by the
new apportionment, all the Representatives must be elected by
the State at large unless and until new districts are created. Id.
6. The conclusions set forth in the last three paragraphs, supra, are
consistent with the general provisions (§§ 3-5, inclusive) of the
reapportionment Act of August 8, 1911; and it is therefore unnecessary to decide whether those parts of the Act remain in force
since the new apportionment. P. 373.
7. Inclusion of an earlier statutory provision in the United States
Code does not operate as a re-enactment. Id.
184 Minn. 228; 238 N. W. 494, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 616, to review a judgment affirming the dismissal of a suit to enjoin the Secretary of State
of Minnesota from acting under a measure of the legislature purporting to redistrict the State for congressional
elections. The bill sought to have all filings for nomination declared illegal. There was first an interlocutory
appeal from an order sustaining a demurrer.

Messrs. George T. Simpson and Alfred W. Bowen, with
whom Messrs. John A. Weeks and W. Yale Smiley were

on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Henry N. Benson, Attorney General of Minnesota, and William H. Gurnee, Assistant Attorney General,

for respondent.

I

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Argument for Respondent.

The word "legislature" is used eleven times in the
Constitution and five times in its amendments. In the
following instances there can be.scarcely any doubt that
it refers to the bicameral body holding sessions periodically for the purpose principally of enacting laws for the
State:
Art. I, § 2, par. 1, wherein it is required that electors of
members of the House of Representatives shall have the
qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous
branch of the state legislature; Art. I, § 3, par. 1, relating
to the election of two senators from each State chosen by
the legislature thereof; Art. I, § 3, par. 2, wherein the
Executive of the State is given authority to fill a vacancy
in the office of United States Senator in Congress during
a recess of the legislature, until the next meeting of the
legislature, which shall then fill-such vacancy; Art. I, § 8,
par. 17, giving the Congress power to exercise legislative
authority over all places within the United States purchased by the consent of the legislature of the State in
which the same shall be; Art. IV, § 3, par. 1, forbidding
the formation of a new State by the junction of two or
more States or parts of States without the consent of the
legislatures of the States concerned; Art. IV, § 4, wherein
the United States guarantees to protect every state
against domestic violence on application of the legislature,
or of the executive when the legislature can not be convened; Art. V, which deals with amendment of the Constitution; Art. VI, par. 3, which requires members of the
several state legislatures to be bound by oath or affirmation to support the Constitution; Seventeenth Amendment, par. 1, which requires that electors of senators shall
have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most
numerous branch of the state legislatures; Seventeenth
Amendment, par. 2, which authorizes the legislature of a.
State to empower the executive thereof to make tempo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

285 U.S.

rary appointments of senators until the people shall fill the
vacancies by election.
The other places in which the word "legislature" is
used in the Constitution are Art. I, § 4, and Art. II, § 1,
par. 2.
Article II, § 1, par. 2, provides that each State shall
appoint in such manner as the legislature thereof may direct a number of electors equal to the whole number of
senators and representatives to which the State may be
entitled in the Congress. In McPherson v. Blacker, 146
U. S. 1, the expression "in such manner as the legislature
thereof may direct " was held not to be a limitation on
the power of the legislature, but a limitation on the State
in respect to any attempt to limit the legislative power
of the legislature by constitutional limitations.
Amendment XVII, par. 2, undoubtedly employs.the expression "legislature" in the same sense as is used in
the first paragraph thereof and undoubtedly has the effect
of putting it beyond the power of any State by constitutional limitation, or otherwise, to deprive the legislature
of that State of its constitutional right to authorize the
executive to fill vacancies in the office of senator in Congress.
Wherever the term "legislature" is used in the instances above mentioned it refers not to the legislative
power of the State as set forth in the constitution of the
State, but to the law-making body of each State.
It seems unbelievable that the framers of the Constitution would use a well-understood expression such as
"legislature" fifteen times in the Constitution and its
Amendments in one sense, and then in Art. I, § 4, use it
in an entirely different sense. If the framers had intended
that the law-making power of the State, including the
power of gubernatorial veto, should be exercised in prescribing the times, places, and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives, they would have

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Argument for Respondent.

used the word " State" or some expression such as "lawmaking power of the State," or "by the legislature with
the approval of the executive."
This is the more apparent when it is borne in mind that,
until the adoption of the Seventeenth Amendment, the
legislatures elected the United States Senators. The governor had nothing to do with their selection. Why, then,
should he have any voice in regulations for their election?
It could not have been intended that the legislatures
should act (subject to supervision by Congress) in prescribing regulations for electing senators, but that in
regulating the election of representatives in Congress
their acts would be subject to the veto power of an executive. The word "legislature" can not have two meanings
as used in Art. I, § 4.
The word "prescribe" is here used in its literal sense:
to appoint, direct, determine, give direction, or to lay
down as a guide, direction or rule of action. The prescribing may be done in any manner the legislature sees
fit. The duty imposed upon the legislature in respect to
dividing the State into congressional districts is entirely
different from its duties in respect to general state legislation. When acting in accordance with Art. I, § 4,
the legislature is carrying out a federal mandate, as an
agency of the Federal Government.
If the people of Minnesota were to adopt a constitution
which provided that in dividing the State into congressional districts there must be a vote of three-fourths cf
the members of the legislature, or that such action must
be approved by the supreme .court of the State, or that
such action would not become effective until the lapse
of one year, could it be seriously contended that such
provisions would be effective as against the provisions of
Art. I, § 4? See Baldwin v. Trowbridge, 3 Bartlett on
Contested Elections, p. 46.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

285U.S.

If Art. I, § 4, is to be construed as requiring gubernatorial approval of the action of the legislature, it will
mean that in Minnesota two-thirds of the members of
its legislature must agree if the governor disapproves. If
the constitution of Minnesota may require a two-thirds
vote, it may by the same reasoning require a four-fifths
or a unanimous vote. If the state constitution gives the
governor no such veto power, certainly he acquires none
from the Federal Constitution. Is it within the power of
the state constitution so to limit the power of the legislature in prescribing for the election of representatives in
Congress? See Baldwin v. Trowbridge, supra; Cong.
Globe, First Sess., 39th Cong., p. 815.
It is true that in prescribing the manner in which congressional elections shall be conducted, the adoption of
corrupt practices acts, and regulations for the nomination
of candidates by primaries or by conventions, etc., the
legislatures of the several States have quite uniformly
proceeded by laws regularly enacted in accordance with
their several constitutions. This is not strange, but on
the other hand was desirable both from considerations of
uniformity and economy. Such laws, in so far as they
relate to state officers, must necessarily be adopted in this
manner. In so far as they relate to federal officers, the
approval of the governor is merely surplusage.
In considering the meaning of the term "legislature"
as used in Art. I, § 4, it is well to bear in mind that very
few of the original States comprising the Union gave such
power to their chief executives. Much of the irritation
and resentment which led to the war of the Revolution
was caused by the arbitrary and unpopular acts of the
royal governors. The States were slow to give their chief
executives a veto power over the acts of their legislatures.
Whenever the Constitution designates a state agency
to perform specified federal functions a clear distinction

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Opinion of the Court.

is made between the State, the legislature and the executive of the State.
The Act of August 8, 1911 (37 Stat. c. 5, 13) is no longer
in force. House File 1456 does not violate the Act of
August 8, 1911.
When the question arises as to whether or not the
legislature has acted in accordance with the constitution
or laws of a State, the judgment of the highest court of
that State is conclusive.
There is no violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Under the re-apportionment following the fifteenth
decennial census, as provided by the Act of Congress of
June 18, 1929 (c. 28, 46 Stat. 21, 26), Minnesota is entitled to nine representatives in Congress, being one less
than the number previously allotted. In April, 1931, the
bill known as House File No. 1456, dividing the State
into nine congressional districts and specifying the counties of which they should be composed, was passed by
the House of Representatives and the Senate of the State
and was transmitted to the Governor, who returned it
without his approval. Thereupon, without further action upon the measure by the House of Representatives
and the Senate, and in compliance with a, resolution of
the House of Representatives, House File No. 1456 was
deposited with the Secretary of State of Minnesota.
This suit was brought by the petitioner as a ' citizen,
elector and taxpayer' of the State to obtain a judgment
declaring invalid all filings for nomination for the office
of representative in Congress, which should designate a
subdivision of the State as a congressional district, and
to enjoin the Secretary of State from giving notice of
the holding of elections for that office in such subdivi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

sions. The petition alleged that House File No. 1456
was a nullity in that, after the Governor's veto, it was
not repassed by the legislature as required by law, and
also in that the proposed congressional districts were
not 'compact' and did not 'contain an equal number of
inhabitants as nearly as practicable ' in accordance with
the Act of Congress of August 8, 1911.1
The respondent, Secretary of State, demurred to the
petition upon the ground that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. He maintained the
validity of House File No. 1456 by virtue of the authority
conferred upon the legislature by Article I, section 4, of
the Federal Constitution, and he insisted that the Act of
'The Act of August S, 1911, c. 5, 37 Stat. 13, provided for the apportionment of representatives in Congress among the several States
under the thirteenth census. After fixing the total number of representatives and their .apportionment, in sections I and 2, the Act provided as folloN\w:
"See. 3. TlIt in each State entitled uter this "ipportonllunt to
more 'than one Representative, the Representatives to the Sixiy -lhird
aind each subsequent Congress shall be elected by districts composed
lis
nc'arly as
of a contiguous and compact territory, and containing
praeticable an equal number of inhabitants. The said districts shall
be equal to the number of Representatives to which such State may be
entitled in Congress, no district electing more than one IRelt'escntative.
"Sec. 4. That in ease of an increase in the number of Representatives in any State under this apportionment such additional Representative or Representatives shall be elected by the State at large and
the other Representatives by the districts now prescribed by law until
such State shall be redistricted in the manner provided by the laws
thereof and in accordance with the rules enumerated in section three
of this Act; and if there be no change in the number of Representatives from a State, the Representatives thereof shall be elected from
the districts now prescribed by law until such State shall be redistri-ted as herein prescribed.
"See. 5. That candidates for Representative or Represenlatives to
be elected at large in any State shall be nominated in the same
manner as candidates for governor, unless otherwise provided by the
laws of such State."

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

363

Opinion of the Court.

Congress of August 8, 1911, was no longer in force and
that the asserted inequalities in redistricting presented a
political and not a judicial question. The trial court sustained the demurrer and its order was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. 184 Minn. 228; 238 N. W.
494. The action was then dismissed upon the merits and
the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment upon its
previous opinion. This Court granted a. writ of certiorari.
Article I, section 4, of the Constitution of the United
States provides:
"The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections
for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in
each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress
may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations,
except as to the Places of chusing Senators."
Under the constitution of linesota, the 'legislature'
consists 'of the Senate and House of Representatives.'
Const. Minn., Art. 4, see. 1. Before any bill passed by the
Senate and House of Representatives "becomes a law,"
it must "be presented to the Governor of the state," and
if he returns it, within the time stated, without his approval, the bill may become a. law proVided it is reconsidered and thereupon passed by each house by a twothirds vote. Id., Art. 4, see. 11. The state constitution
also provides that after each Federal census "the legislature shall have the power to prescribe the bounds of congressional . . . districts." Id., Art. 4, sec. 23. We do not
understand that the Supreme Court of the State has held
that, under these provisions, a measure redistricting the
State for congressional elections could be put in force by
the legislature without participation by the Governor, as
required in the case of legislative bills, if such action were
regarded as a performance of the function of the legislature
as a lawmaking body. " No decision to that effect has been
cited. It appears that 'on seven occasions' prior to the
measure now under consideration, the legislature of Min-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

nesota had 'made state and federal reapportionments in
the form of a bill for an act which was approved by the
Governor.'" While, in the instant case, the Supreme Court
regarded that procedure as insufficient to support the petitioner's contention as to practical construction, that question was dismissed from consideration be~ause of the controlling effect which the court ascribed to the Federal
provision. 184 Minn. 241.; 238 N. W. 500. The court
expressed the opinion that "the various provisions of our
state constitution cited in the briefs are of little importance in relation to the matter now in controversy "; that
"the power of the state Legislature to prescribe congressional districts rests exclusively and solely in the language
of article I, section 4, of the United States Constitution."
Id., 235; 497. Construing that provision, the court
reached the conclusion that the legislature in redistricting
the State was not acting strictly in the exercise of the
lawmaking power but merely as an agency, discharging
a particular duty in the manner which the Federal Constitution required. Upon this point the court said (id.,
238; 499):
"The Legislature in districting the state is not strictly
in the discharge of legislative duties as a law-making
body, acting in its sovereign capacity, but is acting as
representative of the people of the state under the power
granted by said Article I, section 4. It merely gives
expression as to district lines in aid of the election of
certain federal officials; prescribing one of the essential details serving primarily the federal government and seeondly the people of the state. The Legislature is designated as a mere agency to discharge the particular duty.
The Governor's veto has no relation to such matters;
that power pertains under the state Constitution exclu'See Laws of Minnesota, 1858, e.83; 1872, e.21; 1881, c. 128;
1891, c. 3; 1901, c. 92; 1913, c. 513; 1929, c. 64.

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

365

Opinion of the Court.

sively to state affairs. The word 'legislature' has reference to the well-recognized branch of the state government-created by the state as one of its three branches
for a specific purpose-and when the framers of the Federal Constitution employed this term, we believe they
made use of it in the ordinary sense with reference to
the official body invested with the functions of making
laws, the legislative body of the state; and that they did
not intend to include the state's chief executive as a part
thereof. We would not be justified in construing the
term as being used in its enlarged sense as meaning the
state or as meaning the law-making power of the state."
The question then is whether the provision of the Federal Constitution, thus regarded as determinative, invests the legislature with a particular authority and imposes upon it a corresponding duty, the definition of
which imports a function different from that of lawgiver
and thus renders inapplicable the conditions which attach to the making of state laws. Much that is urged
in argument with regard to the meaning of the term
'Legislature' is beside the point. As this Court said in
Hawke v. Smith, No. 1, 253 U. S. 221, 227, the term was
not one "of uncertain meaning when incorporated into
the Constitution. What it meant when adopted it still
means for the purpose of interpretation. A Legislature
was then the representative body which made the laws
of the people." The question here is not with respect to
the 'body' as thus described but as to the function to
be performed. The use in the Federal Constitution of
the same term in different relations does not always imply
the performance of the same function. The legislature
may act as an electoral body, as in the choice of United
States Senators under Article I, section 3, prior to the
adoption of the Seventeenth Amendment. It may act as
a ratifying body, as in the case of proposed amendments
to the Constitution under Article V. Hawke v. Smith, No.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

1, supra;Id., No. 2, 253 U. S. 231; Leser v. Garnett, 258
U. S. 130, 137. It may act as a consenting body, as in
relation to the acuisition of lands by the United States
under Article I, section 8, paragraph 17. Wherever the
term 'legislature' is used in the Constitution it is necessary to consider the nature of the particular action in
view. The primary question now before the Court is
whether the function contemplated by Article I, section 4,
is that of making laws.
Consideration of the subject matter and of the terms
of the provision requires affirmative answer. The subject
matter is the "times, places and manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives." It cannot be
doubted that these comprehensive words embrace authority to provide a complete code for congressional elections,
not only as to times and places, but in relation to notices,
registration, supervision of voting, protection of voters,
prevention of fraud and corrupt practices, counting of
votes, duties of inspectors and canvassers, and making and
publication of election returns; in short, to enact the
numerous requirements as to procedure and safeguards
which experience shows are necessary in order to enforce
the fundamental right involved. And these requirements
would be nugatory if they did not have appropriate sanctions in the definition of offenses and punishments. All
this is comprised in the subject of "times, places and
manner of holding elections" and involves lawmaking in
its essential features and most important aspect.
This view is confirmed by the second clause of Article
I, section 4, which provides that " the Congress may at
any time by law make or alter such regulations," with the
single exception stated. The phrase "such regulations"
plainly refers to regulations of the same general character
that the legislature of the State is authorized to prescribe
with respect to congressional elections. In exercising this
power, the Congress may supplement these state regula-

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Opinion of the Court.

tions or may substitute its own. It may impose additional penalties for the violation of the state laws or provide independent sanctions. It 'has a general supervisory
power over the whole subject.' Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 371, 387; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 661;
Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S. 399; United States v. Mosley,
238 U. S. 383, 386; Newberry v. United States, 256 U. S.
232, 255. But this broad authority is conferred by the
constitutional provision now under consideration and is
exercised by the Congress in making "such regulations,"
that is, regulations of the sort which, if there be no overruling action by the Congress, may be provided by the
legislature of the State upon the same subject.
The term defining the method of action, equally with
the nature of the subject matter, aptly points to the
making of laws. The state legislature is authorized to
"prescribe" the times, places and manner of holding
elections. Respondent urges that the fact that the words
" by law" are found in the clause relating to the action
of the Congress, and not in the clause giving authority to
the state legislature, supports the contention that the
latter was not to act in the exercise of the lawmaking
power. We think that the inference is strongly to the
contrary. It is the nature of the function that makes
the phrase "by law "apposite. That is the same whether
it is performed by state or national legislature, and the
use of the phrase places the intent of the whole provision
in a strong light. Prescribing regulations to govern the
conduct of the citizen, under the first clause, and making
and altering such rules by law, under the second clause,
involve action of the same inherent character.
As the authority is conferred for the purpose of making
laws for the State, it follows, in the absence of an indication of a contrary intent, that the exercise of the authority must be in accordance with the method which the
State has prescribed for legislative enactments. We find

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

no suggestion in the Federal constitutional provision of
an attempt to endow the legislature of the State with
power to enact laws in any manner other than that in
which the constitution of the State has provided that
laws shall be enacted. Whether the Governor of the
State, through the veto power, shall have a part in the
making of state laws is a matter of state polity. Article I, section 4, of the Federal Constitution, neither requires nor excludes such participation. And provision
for it, as a check in the legislative process, cannot be regarded as repugnant to the grant of legislative authority.
At the time of the adoption of the Federal Constitution
it appears that only two States had provided for a veto
upon the passage of legislative bills; Massachusetts,
through the Governor, and New York, through a Council
of Revision.' But the restriction which existed in the
case of these States was well known. That the state
legislature might be subject to such a limitation, either
then or thereafter imposed as the several States might
think wise, was no more incongruous with the grant of
legislative authority to regulate congressional elections
than the fact that the Congress in making its regulations
under the same provision would be subject to the veto
power of the President as provided in Article I, section 7.
'The constitution of Massachusetts of 1780 provided for the Gov-

ernor's veto of " bills" or " resolves." Part Second, Chap. I, sec. I,
Art. II; 3 Thorpe, American Charters, Constitutions and Organic
Laws, 1893, 1894. The Council of Revision in New York, which had
the veto power under the first constitution of 1777 (Art. III), was
composed of the Governor, the Chancellor, and the Judges of the
Supreme Court, "or any two of them, together with the Governor."
The veto power was given to the Governor alone by the constitution
of 1821. Art. I, sec. 12, 3 Thorpe, op. cit., 2628, 2641, 2642. In
South Carolina, the veto power had been given by the constitution of
1776 to the "president" (Art. VII), but under the constitution of
1778 the Governor had no veto power; see Art. XVI, 6 Thorpe, op.
cit., 3244, 3252.

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Opinion of the Court.

The latter consequence was not expressed but there is
no question that it was necessarily implied, as the Congress was to act by law; and there is no intimation, either
in the debates in the Federal Convention or in contemporaneous exposition, of a purpose to exclude a similar
restriction imposed by state constitutions upon state legislatures when exercising the lawmaking power.
The practical construction of Article 1, section 4, is impressive. General acquiescence cannot justify departure
from the law, but long and continuous interpretation in
the course of official action under the law may aid in
removing doubts as to its meaning. This is especially
true in the case of constitutional provisions governing the
exercise of political rights and hence subject to constant
and careful scrutiny. Certainly, the terms of the constitutional provision furnish no such clear and definite support for a contrary construction as to justify disregard
of the established practice in the States. McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 36; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 248 U. S. 276, 284; Myers v. United States, 272 U. S.
52, 119, 136; The Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655, 688690. That practice is eloquent of the conviction of the
people of the States, and of their representatives in state
legislatures and executive office, that in providing for
congressional elections, and for the districts in which they
were to be held, these legislatures were exercising the lawmaking power and thus were subject, where the state
constitution so provided, to the veto of the Governor as
a part of the legislative process. The early action in
Massachusetts under this authority was by 'resolves'
and these, under the constitution of 1780, were required
to be submitted to the Governor and it appears that they
were so submitted and approved by him.' In New York,
'Const. Mass. 1780; 3 Thorpe, op cit., 1893, 1894; Mass. Resolves,
Oct.-Nov., 17SS, c. XLIX, p. 52; May-June, 1792, c. LXIX, p. 23.
137818-

- :;2-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

from the outset, provision for congressional districts was
made by statute" and this method was followed until
1931. The argument based on the disposition, during
the early period, to curtail executive authority in the
States, and on the long time which elapsed in a number
of States before the v~to power was granted to the Governor, is of slight weight in the light of the fact that this
power was given in four States shortly after the adoption
of the Federal Constitution,' that the use of this check
has gradually been extended, and that the uniform practice (prior to the questions raised in relation to the present reapportionment) has been to provide for congressional districts by the enactment of statutes with the
participation of the Governor wherever the state constitution provided for such participation as part of the
process of making laws. See Moran v. Bowley (Ill.) 179
N. E. 526, 527; Koenig v. Flynn, 258 N. Y. 292, 300;
179 N. E. 705; Carroll v. Becker (Mo.),45 S. W. (2d)
533; State ex rel. Schrader v. Polley, 26 S. D. 5, 7; 127
N. W. 848. The Attorney General of Minnesota, in his
argument in the instant case, states: "It is conceded that
until 1931 whenever the State of Minnesota was divided
into districts for the purpose of congressional elections
such action was taken by the legislature in the form of
a bill and presented to and approved by the governor."
New York, Laws of 17S9, Chap. 11; 1797, Chap. 62; 1802, Chap. 72.
See Koenig v. Flyn, 258 N. Y. 292; 179 N. E. 705.
Georgia, Const. 1789, Art. II, sec. 10, 2 Thorpe, op. cit., 788; Pennsylvania, Const. 1790, Art. I, sec. 22, 5 Thorpe, op. cit., 3094; New
Hampshire, Const. 1792, Part Second, see. XLIV, 4 Thorpe, op. cit.,
2482; Kentucky, Const. 1792, Art. I, see. 28, 3 Thorpe, op. cit., 1267.
In Vermont, the constitution of 1793 (Chap. II, see. 16) gave the
Governor and Council a power of suspension similar to that for which
provision had been made in the constitution of 1786 (Chap II, see.
XVI) before the admission of Vermont to the Union. See, also, constitution of 1777 (Chap. II, see. XIV), 6 Thorpe, op. cit., 3744, 3757,
3767.

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Opinion of the Court.

That the constitutional provision contemplates the exercise of the lawmaking power was definitely recognized
by the Congress in the Act of August 8, 1911,' which expressly provided in section 4 for the election of representatives in Congress, as stated, " by the districts now prescribed by law until such state shall be redistricted in the
manner provided by the laws thereof and in accordance
with the rules enumerated in section three of this Act."
The significance of the clause "in the manner provided
by the laws thereof" is manifest from its occasion and
purpose. It was to recognize the propriety of the referendum in establishing congressional districts where the
State had made it a part of the legislative process. " It is
clear," said this Court in Davis v. Hildebrant, 241 U. S.
565, 568, "that Congress in 1911 in enacting the controlling law concerning the duties of the States through their
legislative authority, to deal with the subject of the creation of congressional districts expressly modified the
phraseology of the previous acts relating to that subject
by inserting a clause plainly intended to provide that
where by the state constitution and laws the referendlum
was treated as part of the legislative power, the power as
thus constituted should be held and treated to be the
state legislative power for the purpose of creating dongressional districts by law."
The case of Davis v. Hildebrant,supra, arose under the
amendment of 1912 to the constitution of Ohio reserving
the right "by way of referendum to approve or disapprove by popular vote any law enacted by the General
Assembly." Id., p. 566. The act passed by the General
Assembly of Ohio in 1915, redistricting the State for the
purpose of congressional elections, was disapproved under
the referendum provision and the validity of that action
was challenged under Article I, section 4, of the Federal
'See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

Constitution. The Supreme Court of the State, denying
a mandamus to enforce the disapproved act, "held that
the provision as to referendum was a part of the legislative power of the State, made so by the Cohstitution,
and that nothing in the Act of Congress of 1911 or in the
constitutional provision operated to the contrary and that
therefore the disapproved law had no existence." Id., p.
567. This Court affirmed the judgment of the state
court. It is manifest that the Congress had no power to
alter Article I, section 4, and that the Act of 1911, in its
reference to state laws, could but operate as a legislative
recognition of the nature of the authority deemed to have
been conferred by the constitutional provision. And it
was because of the authority of the State to determine
what should constitute its legislative process that the
validity of the requirement of the state constitution of
Ohio, in its application to congressional elections, was sustained. This was explicitly stated by this Court as the
ground of the distinction which was made in Hawke v.
Smith, No. 1, supra, where, referring to the Davis case
the Court said: "As shown in the opinion in that case,
Congress had itself recognized the referendum as part of
the legislative authority of the State for the purpose
stated. It was held, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio, that the referendum provision of
the state constitution when applied to a law redistricting
the State with a view to representation in Congress was
not unconstitutional. Article I, section 4, plainly gives
authority to the State to legislate within the limitations
therein named. Such legislative action is entirely different from the requirement of the Constitution as to the
expression of assent or dissent to a proposed amendment
to the Constitution. In such expression no legislative
action is authorized or required."
It clearly follows that there is nothing in Article I,
section 4, which precludes a State from providing that

SMILEY v. HOLM.
355

Opinion of the Court.

legislative action in districting the State for congressional
elections shall be subject to the veto power of the Governor as in other cases of the exercise of the lawmaking
power. Accordingly, in this instance, the validity of
House File No. 1456 cannot be sustained by virtue of
any authority conferred by the Federal Constitution upon
the legislature of Minnesota to create congressional districts independently of the participation of the Governor
as required by the state constitution with respect to the
enactment of laws.
The further question has been-presented whether the
Act of Congress of August 8, 1911, 'is still in force. The
state court held that it was not, that it had been wholly
replaced by the Act of June 18, 1929. Sections 1 and 2
of the former Act, making specific provision for the
apportionment under the thirteenth census, are of course
superseded; the present question relates to the other sections. These have not been expressly repealed. The Act
of 1929 repeals "all other laws and parts of, laws" that
are inconsistent with its provisions (§ 21). The petitioner urges that this Act contains nothing inconsistent
with sections 3, 4 and 5 8 of the Act of 1911, and the only
question is whether these sections by their very terms
have ceased to be effective. It is pointed out that the
provisions of the Act of 1911 were carried into the United
States Code. U. S. C., Tit. 2, §§ 2-5. Inclusion in the
Code does not operate as a re-enactment; it establishes
"prima facie the laws of the United States, general and
permanent in their nature, in force on the 7th day of
December, 1925." Act of June 30, 1926, c. 712, 44 Stat.
1. While sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1911 expressly
referred to 'this apportionment' (the one made by that
Act), the argument is pressed that they contain provisions
setting forth a general policy which was intended to apply
'See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

to the future creation of congressional districts, and the
election of representatives, until Congress should provide
otherwise.
There are three classes of States with respect to the
number of representatives under the present apportionment pursuant to the Act of 1929, (1) where the number
remains the same, (2) where it is increased, and (3) where
it is decreased. In States where the number of representatives remains the same, and the districts are unchanged, no question is presented; there is nothing inconsistent with any of the requirements of the Congress in
proceeding with the election of representatives in such
States in the same manner as heretofore. Section 4 of the
Act of 1911 provided that in case of an increase in the
number of representatives in any State, "such additional
representative or representatives shall be elected by the
State at large and the other representatives by the districts now prescribed by law" until such State shall be
redistricted. The Constitution itself provides in Article I,
section 2, that "The House of Representatives shall be
composed of Members chosen every second Year by the
People of the several States," and we are of the opinion
that under this provision, in the absence of the creation of
new districts, additional representatives allotted to a State
under the present reapportionment would appropriately
be elected by the State at large. Such a course, with the
election of the other representatives in the existing districts until a redistricting act was passed, would present
no inconsistency with any policy declared in the Act
of 1911.
Where, as in the case of Minnesota, the number of
representatives has been decreased, there is a different
situation as existing districts are not at all adapted to
the new apportionment. It follows that in such a case,
unless and until new districts are created, all representatives allotted to the State must be elected by the State at

KOENIG v. FLYNN.

375

Argument for Petitioners.

355

large. That would be required, in the absence of a redistricting act, in order to afford the representation to which
the State is constitutionally entitled, and the general
provisions of the Act of 1911 cannot be regarded as
intended to have a different import.
This conclusion disposes of all the questions properly
before the Court. Questions in relation to the application
of the standards defined in section 3 of the Act of 1911 to
a redistricting statute, if such a statute should hereafter
be enacted, are wholly abstract. The judgment is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

KOENIG

ET AL.

V. FLYNN, SECRETARY OF STATE,
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 731.

Argued March 24, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

Decided upon the authority of Smiley v. Holm, ante, p. 355.
258 N. Y. 292; 179 N. E. 705, affirmed.

to review a judgment affirming the refusal of a writ of mandamus.
CERTIORARI*

Messrs. Abraham S. Gilbert and Benjamin L. Fairchild
for petitioners.
The word" legislature" in § 4 of Art. I means the same
representative body referred to in Art. II, § 1, of the Constitution. It must have the same meaning wherever used
in the Constitution.
* See table of cases reported in this volume.

