CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 378.

Argued January 20, 21, 1932.-Decided February 23, 1932.

1. The term "foreign country," when used with reference to government rather than to territory, may mean a foreign State in the international sense, or it may mean a foreign government having authority over a particular area or subject-matter, which is not itself
an international person but only a component or political subdivision
of a larger international unit. P. 5.
2. The term " foreign country" is not a technical or artificial one; and
the sense in which it is used in a statute must be determined by
reference to the purpose of the particular legislation. Id.
3. The Revenue Act of 1921, § 238 (a) and (e), provides (with limitations) that domestic corporations may credit against their income
taxes like taxes paid during the same taxable year "to any foreign
country," and that where such a corporation owns a majority of the
voting stock of a foreign corporation from which it receives dividends
in any taxable year, it shall be presumed to have paid the same
proportion of any income tax paid by such foreign corporation "to
any foreign country" upon the accumulated profits from which
such dividends were paid, as the amount of such dividends bears
to the amount of such accumulated profits. Held, construing it in
connection with earlier legislation:
. (1) That the purpose is to mitigate the evil of double taxation
and to facilitate the foreign enterprises of domestic corporations,
and
137818*-321
1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285U.S.

(2) That the'term ",foreign country" is not limited to international States, but embraces any foreign government competent to
lay the tax sought to be credited. Pp. 5-15

4. Administrative construction of a statute, if not uniform and consistent, will be taken into account by courts only to the extent that
it is supported by valid reasons. P. 16.

5. Ambiguous regulations are of little value in solving statutory ambiguities. Id.
50 F. (2d) 683, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 607, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a determination of.the
Board of Tax Appeals, 16 B. T. A. 1129.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom Solicitor General-Thacher, and Messrs. Whitney North Seymour, Sewall Key, and Andrew D. Sharpe were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Only taxes paid to a foreign sovereign state or a selfgoverning colony are deductible under § 238 of the
Revenue Act of 1921.
The administrative construction of the phrase "foreign
country" is supported by several decisions and is consistent with, its meaning when used in other federal statutes and in international law. Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 How.
521; Faber v. United Sta.tes, 221 U. S. 649, 658; United
States v. The Ship Recorder, 1 Blatch. 218; U. S. C.,
Title.22, §§ 38, 177, 216; U. S. C. App., Title, 22, § 291.
The term "country" is used in the same sense to define
a state or person in international law. Hyde, Int. L.,
I, pp. 16-17; Moore, Int. L. Dig., I, pp. 14-18, and
authorities cited; Hall, Int. L., pp. 17 et seq.; Wheaton,
Int. L., 6th ed., I, pp. 38 et seq.
Relief from international double taxation has been the
subject of international negotiation, and the'nature and
scope of those negotiations indicate that the nations
generally have been concerned only with relieving their
nationals from'double taxation by sovereign states and not
from that of political subdivisions.

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
Atgument for R6spondent.

The right to credit taxes paid to a foreign country is in
the nature of an exemption. If there were any doubt
about the intention of Congress, it should be resolved in
favor of the Government. Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 41,8,
431; Swan & Finch Co. v. United States, 190 U. S. 143,
147; Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146.
There is no provision ir the revenue acts which permits
the crediting of taxes imposed by a State of the T Jnited
States against income and profits taxes imposed by the
United States. State taxes are deducted from gross income in computing net income, under § 234 (a) (3) of
the Revenue Act of 1921. It is not to be presumed that
Congress intended to allow credits to corporations for
taxes paid to states or other subdivisions of foreign countries while withholding similar credits for taxes paid to
States of the United States.
New South Wales is not a "foreign country" within
the meaning of the Revenue Act of 1921.
Mr. Arnold R. Baar,with whom Mr. Albert L. Hopkins
was on the brief, for respondent.
The word " country" in the phrase "any foreign country" means any foreign tax-levying authority. Dicey's
Conflict of Laws, 4th ed., pp. 59, 60; Campbell v. Barney,
4 Fed. Cas. 1157; Mensevich v. Tod, 264 U. S. 134; Seif
v. Nagle, 14 F. (2d) 416; United 'States v. Smith, 2 F.
(2d) 90; In re Farez, 8 Fed. Cas. 1011; Pagano v. Cerri,
93 Oh. St. 345; In re Ghio's Estate, 157 Cal. 552; Mansell's Admnx. v. Israel, 6 Ky. 510; Mendrie Mfg. Co. v.
Pendrick, 21 Hawaii 258.
The Government's interpretation of the term "foreign
country" is based on a misapplication of some of the
older tariff decisions, but the fact is that there is no uniform definition of the term even in the particular field
of tariff legislation. Pearcy v. Stranahan, 205 U. S. 257,
269; Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 How. 521; Faber v. United
States, 221 U. S. 649; United States v. The Ship Recorder,
1 Blatch. 218.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

285U.S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This proceeding was brought for the redetermination of
a deficiency in income tax for the year 1923. The respondent, Chicago Portrait Company, is an Illinois cor-poration with its principal place of business at Chicago.
It owned 51 per cent. of the capital stock of the International Art Company of Sydney, Australia, a foreign
'corporation. Respondent received dividends from the International Art Company and sought credit for a proportionate part of the income taxes paid by that corporation
to the Commonwealth .of Australia, to the State of New
South Wales, and to the Dominion of New Zealand. Section 238 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1921 (42 Stat. 227, 258,
259) permitted credit in the case of such taxes paid "to
any foreign country." Credit was allowed on account
of the income taxes paid to the Commonwealth of Australia and to the Dominion of New Zealand but was refused as to those paid to the State of New South Wales.
The Board of Tax Appeals held that the respondent was
entitled to the credit with respect to the last mentioned
taxes also, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that
decision. 16 B. T. A. 1129; 50 F. (2d) 683. This Court
granted a writ of certiorari.
The sole question is whether New South Wales is a
"foreign country" within the meaning of the applicable
statute.1
'The provisions of § 238 (a) and (e) of the Revenue Act of 1921

are"Sec.
as follows:

238 (a) That in the case of a domestic corporation the tax

imposed by this title, plus the war-profits and excess-profits taxes, if
any, shall be credited with the amount of any income, war-profits, and
excess-profits taxes paid during the same taxable year to any foreign
country, or to any possession of the United States: Provided, That
the amount of credit taken under this subdivision shall in no case
exceed the same proportion of the taxes, against which such credit is

taken, which the taxpayer's net income (computed without deduction

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
1

5

Opinion of the Court.

The word "country," in the expression "foreign
country," is ambiguous. It may be taken to mean foreign territory or a foreign government. In the sense of
territory, it may embrace all the territory subject to a
foreign sovereign power. When referring more particularly to a foreign government, it may describe a foreign
State in the international sense, that is, one that has the
status of an international person with the rights and responsibilities under international law of a member of the
family of nations; 2 or it may mean a foreign government
which has authority over a particular area or subjectmatter, although not an international person but only a
component part, or a political subdivision, of the larger
for any income, war-profits, and excess-profits taxes imposed by any
foreign country or possession of the United States) from sources without the United States bears to its entire net. income (computed without such deduction) for the same taxable year ...
"(e) For the purposes of this section o domestic corporation which
owns a majority of the voting stock of a foreign corporation from
which it receives dividends (not-deductible under section 234) in iny
taxable year shall be deemed to have paid the same proportion of
any income, war-profits, or excess-profits taxes paid by such foreign
corporation to any foreign country or to any possession of the United
States, upon or with respect to the accumulated profits of such foreign corporation from which such dividends were paid, which the
amount of such dividends bears to the amount of such accumulated
profits: Provided, That the credit allowed to any domestic corporation under this subdivision shall in no case exceed the same proportion
of the taxes against which it is credited, which the amount of such
dividends bears to the amount of the entire net income of the domestic corporation in which such dividends are included. The term
'accumulated profits' when used in this subdivision in reference to a
foreign corporation, means the amount of its gains, profits, or income
in excess of the income, war-profits, and excess-profits taxes imposed
upon or with respect to such profits or income; . . ."
2Oppenheim, Internat. L.; 4th ed., vol. I, §§ 63, 64, pp. 133-135;
Hyde, Internat. L., vol. 1, §§ 6-8, pp. 15-18; Moore, Internat. L. Dig,,
vol. I, pp. 14-18,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

international unit. The term " foreign country" is not
a technical or artificial. one, and the sense in which it is
used in a statute must be determined by reference to the
purpose of the particular legislation.'
In the case of tariff acts, this Court said in Stairs v.
Peaslee, 18 How. 521, 526, that the word " country" has
always been construed "to embrace all the possessions of
a foreign State, however widely separated, which are subject to the same supreme executive and legislative control." See, also, United States v. The Ship Recorder, 1
Blatchf. 218, 225-227; Campbell v. Barney, 5 Blatchf.
221. Accordingly, in construing the Act of March 3, 1851
(9 Stat. 629, 630) providing that imported merchandise
should be appraised at its market value "at the principal
markets of the country" from which it had been imported,
the Court held that a commodity shipped from Halifax,
Nova Scotia, should be appraised according to the value
in the principal markets under the British rule, and these
were found, in fact, to be London and Liverpool. After
the ratification of the Treaty of Peace between the United
States and Spain, Porto Rico and the Philippines ceased
to be " foreign country" under the tariff laws. De Lima
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1; FourteenDiamondRings v. United
States, 183 U. S. 176, 179. It followed that the term
"other countries" in the Commercial Convention with
Cuba of 1903 (33 Stat. 2136, 2140) did not include the
Philippine Islands. Faberv. United States, 221 U. S. 649,
658. Under the provisions of the Platt Amendment and
the Constitution of Cuba, the Isle of Pines was de facto under the jurisdiction of Cuba and hence remained " foreign
country" within the meaning of the Tariff Act of 1897
(30 Stat. 151). Pearcy v. Stranahan,205 U.S. 257, 265.
'See Dicey, Conflict of Laws, 4th ed., pp. 59, 60.
'Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 29; Marriott v. Brune, 9 How.
619, 635, 636; American Tobacco Co. v. Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284,
293; United States v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 236 U. S. 318, 333;
Inter-Island Steam Nay. Co. v. Ward, 242 U. S. 1, 4; Porto Rico Ry.,
L. & P. Co. v. Mor, 253 U. S. 345, 348.

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
Opinion of the Coui t.

In construing legislation providing for the deportation
of aliens "to the country whence they came," the place
of emigration affords the dominant consideration. Thus,
under the Immigration Act of 1917 (39 Stat. 874, 890) the
Court held that an alien emigrating from Grodno, then a
part of Russia, was properly deported to Poland, because
at that time Grodno was a part of Poland. "The term
country," said the Court, was used in the statute "to
designate, in general terms, the state which, at the time
of deportation, includes the place from which the alien
came." Mensevich v. Tod, 264 U. S. 134, 136, 137. The
evident purpose of the statute determined the significance
to be attached to the expression.
In the instant case, the question is one of credit for
income taxes "paid to any foreign country." The word
"country" is manifestly used in the sense of government. And to decide what government fits the description, whether only that of a foreign power which may be
considered an international person, or that of a political
entity which, although not an international person, levies
and collects income taxes which may be the subject of the
intended credit, it is necessary to consider the object of
the enactment and to construe the expression "foreign
country " so as to achieve, and not defeat, its aim. We
think that the purpose of the statute is clear. The fact
that the provision is for a credit to the domestic corporation, against income taxes payable here, of income taxes
"paid during the same taxable year to any foreign country," itself demonstrates that the primary design of the
provision was to mitigate the evil of double taxation.
Cognate provisions in the case of individuals disclose a
similar intent. Section 222 (a)' of the same Revenue
5"Sec. 222. (a) That the tax computed under Part II of this title
shall be credited with:
"(1) In the case 6f a citizen of the United States, the amount of
any income, war-profits and excess-profits taxes paid during the

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

Act (1921) provides that the income tax, in the case of
a citizen of the United States, should be credited with
the amount of any income taxes "paid during the taxable
year to any foreign country or to any possession of the
United States." In the case of an alien resident of the
United States, the credit is conditioned upon reciprocal
treatment. The resident alien is to be credited with " the
amount of any such taxes paid during the taxable year
to any foreign country, if the foreign country of which
such alien resident is a citizen or subject, in imposing
such taxes, allows a similar credit to citizens of the United
States residing in such country." 42 Stat. 249.6
taxable year to any foreign country or to any possession of the
United States; and
"(2) In the case of a resident of the United States, the amount of
any such taxes paid during the taxable year to any possession of the
United States; and
"(3) In the case of an alien resident of the United States, the
amount of any such taxes paid during the taxable year to any
foreign country, if the foreign country of which such alien resident is
a citizen or subject, in imposing such taxes, allows a similar credit to
citizens of the United States residing in such country; . . ."
6 With respect to the allowance of such credits, as distinguished
from deductions from gross income in computing net income, the
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives in
its report on the Revenue Bill of 1918 (H. R. Rep. No. 767, 65th
Cong., 2d. sess., p. 11), said: "Under existing law a citizen of the
United States can only deduct income, war or excess profits taxes
paid to a foreign country from gross income in computing net income.
With the corresponding high rates imposed by certain foreign countries the taxes levied in such countries in addition to the taxes levied
in the United States upon citizens of the United States place a very
severe burden upon such citizens. The bill provides that a credit
against the income tax imposed in the United States be allowed
a citizen of the United States subject to income and war or excess
profits taxes in a foreign country, of an amount equal to the tax paid
in such country upon income that is received from sources within
such country. The bill further provides that, in the case of an alien
resident of the United States who is a citizen or subject of a country
which imposes income, war profits, or excess profits taxes, a like

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of domestic corporations, the purpose is also
disclosed to facilitate their foreign enterprises. The provision of § 238 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1921 indicates
appreciation of the practical exigencies which lead to the
foreign incorporation of subsidiaries for the extension
by domestic corporations of their business abroad. This
clearly appears to be the reason for the allowance by that
Act of a credit to a domestic corporation, against its income tax here upon dividends received from' its foreign
subsidiary, of a proportionate part, as defined, of the income taxes paid by that subsidiary to "any foreign country."' The same provision applies to subsidiaries with
credit shall be allowed if such country allows a similar credit to
citizens of the United States resident in such country."
The Conference Report on the Revenue Bill of 1918 (H. R. Rep.
No. 1037, 65th Cong., 3d sess., p. 53), contains the following statement: "Amendment No. 118: The House bill provided that a citizen
of the United States might credit against his incomp tax the amount
of any income, war-profits, and excess-profits taxes paid to any
foreign country, Porto Rico, or the Philippine Islands, upon income
derived from sources therein, and allowed a similar credit to an alien
resident if his country makes reciprocal provisions. The Senate
amendment entirely rewrites the section and broadens it to include
a credit for taxes paid to any possession of the United States, which
is also to be given to an alien resident of the United States. The
House recedes with-an amendment providing that if any deduction is
allowed for taxes accrued in any possession or foreign country, the
commissioner may require the taxpayer to give a surety bond providing for the payment of any tax found to be due the Government in
case too great a deduction shall be allowed for accrued taxes in our
possessions or any foreign country. . ....
'In the Report of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House
of Representatives in relation to the Revenue Bill of 1921 (H. R.
Rep. No. 350, 67th Cong., 1st sess., p. 8), the following statement was
made with respect to American concerns doing business in foreign
countries: "Under existing law an American citizen or domestic corporation is taxed upon his or its entire income even though all of it is
derived from business transacted without the United States. This
results in double taxation, places American business concerns at a
serious disadvantage in the competitive struggle for foreign trade, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

respect to income taxes paid "to any possession of the
United States."
In effectuating these purposes, it is manifest that the
controlling consideration was the fact that the income
tax was paid to a foreign government competent to lay
the tax, and not the international status of that government. The burden upon the domestic corporation was
the same whether the foreign government had international standing or was a lesser political entity which nevertheless had authority to impose the exaction upon the
corporation or its subsidiary. And if credit was to be
allowed here by reason of the payment of the income tax
abroad, it made no difference to the Government of the
United States whether the payment abroad was made to
the one sort of foreign government or the other. The
reasons underlying the allowance of the credit were applicable in either case.
An examination of the provisions of earlier income tax
acts in which the expression "foreign country" is found,
does not support, but rather negatives, the conclusion
that the term was used in the restricted sense for which
the petitioner contends. In the Corporation Tax Act of
encourages American corporations doing business in foreign countries
to surrender their American charters and incorporate under the laws
of foreign countries." While this statement was made to introduce a
remedial proposal, which was not adopted, it discloses the purpose
entertained. See, also, Report of Committee of Finance of the Senate (Sen. Rep. No. 275, 67th Cong., 1st sess., p. 9).
The Conference Report on the Revenue Bill of 1921 (H. R. Rep.
486, 67th Cong., 1st sess., p. 38), contains the following: "Amendment No. 436: The House bill provided for the exclusion from income
of all dividends received from a corporation. Senate amendments
agreed to by the conferees having provided for the inclusion in gross
income of certain dividends received from a foreign corporation, Senate amendment No. 436 provides, under proper safeguards, for the
credit by a domestic corporation of taxes paid by its subsidiary foreign corporation with respect to the income or profits of the foreign
corporation paid as taxable dividends to the domestic corporation;
and the House recedes."

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
1

Opinion of the Court.

1909 (36 Stat. 113) deduction froln gross income was
allowed to the corporation for all sums paid by it within
the year for taxes "imposed by the government of any
foreign country as a condition to carrying on business
therein." That corporation tax was an excise on the
privilege of doing business in a corporate capacity. The
provision with respect to taxes laid by a foreign government manifestly referred to that government which, as
the statute said, imposed a privilege tax. There was no
suggestion that the foreign government laying the tax
must have an international status; it was enough that it
had authority to require the payment "as a condition to
carrying on business." In the Income Tax Act of 1913,
Paragraph G (b), 38 Stat. 173, deduction was allowed,
in computing net income of a corporation, of "all sums
paid by it within the year for taxes imposed under the
authority of the United States or of any State or Territory
thereof, or imposed by the Government of any foreign
country." The Income Tax Act of 1916, §§ 5 (a), 6 (a)
and 12 (a), 39 Stat. 759, 769, provided for deduction from
gross income of "Taxes paid within the year imposed by
the authority of the United States, or its Territories, or
possessions, or any foreign country, or under the authority
of any State, county, school district, or municipality, or
other taxing subdivision of any State, not including those
assessed against local benefits."
The Income Tax
Amendments of 1917, §§ 1201 (1), 1207 (1), 40 Stat. 330,
335, continued theprovisions for deductions as to taxes
imposed "by the authority" of "any foreign country" in
obviously the same sense.8
These provisions in the Act of 1917 read: " Taxes paid within the
year imposed by the authority of the United States (except income
and excess profits taxes), or of its Territories, or possessions, or any
foreign gountry, or by the authority of any State, county, school district, or municipality, or other taxing subdivision of any State, not
includirgg those assessed against local benefits."

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

There appears to be no room for the conclusion that
under these Acts, the deductions for taxes paid abroad
were available only if paid to a foreign government that
had an international standing, and not if paid to a foreign
government which, although not having that standing,
was still authorized to exact the taxes. The criterion was
the fact that the tax was imposed by the authority of
a foreign country and not the international status of the
particular government to which it was paid. We have not
been referred to any opposing administrative construction
of these Acts.'
The Revenue Act of 1918, with its provisions for credits, against income taxes laid here, of taxes paid " to any
foreign country, upon income derived' from sources
therein," § 222 (a), 238 (a); 40 Stat. 1073, 1080,1° was
'On the contrary, Treasury Regulations No. 33, Revised (issued in
January, 1918, applicable to the Income Tax Acts of 1916 and 1917)
had the following provisiop in Article 8 with respect to the deductions
allowed to citizens and resident aliens for taxes paid abroad: "Taxes:
State or any political subdivision thereof, Federal or foreign (except
income and excess profits taxes paid to the United States), and not
including taxes assessed against local benefits."
The provision of these regulations as to the taxes deductible in cases
of corporations, had the same import.
This provision was as follows: "Art. 191. Taxes deductible.-Taxes
imposed against a corporation by authority of the United States
(except income and excess-profits taxes) its territories or any foreign
country, or by authority of any State, county, school district, municipality, -or other taxing subdivision of a State (not including those
assessed against local benefits) and paid within the year for which
the return is made, are deductible from the gross income of a domestic corporation."
oThese provisions as to individuals were as follows:
"Sec. 222 (a). That the tax computed under Part II of this title
shall be credited with:
"(1) In the case of a citizen of the United States, the amount of
any income, war-profits and excess-profits taxes paid during the tax-

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
1

Opinion of the Court.

enacted with this background and we find no basis whatever for the conclusion that the term "foreign country"
was used in that statute in any different sense. In the
Act of 1918, the provisions for deductions from
gross income, in computing net income, by citizens or
residents, and by domestic corporations, of taxes paid to
a foreign country, were continued as in the prior acts, save
that there was excepted from these deductions the amount
of the credits now allowed to citizens and residents under
§ 222 and to domestic corporations under § 238 (40 Stat.
1067).11 In these provisions for deductions, the expresable year to any foreign country, upon income derived from sources
therein, or to any possession of the United States; and
"(2) In the case of a resident of the United States, the amount of
any such taxes paid during the taxable year to any possession of the
United States; and
"(3) In the case of an alien resident of the United States who is a
citizen or subject of a foreign country, the amount of any such taxes
paid during the taxable year to such country, upon income derived
from sources therein, if such country, in imposing such taxes, allows
a similar credit to citizens of the United States residing in such
country; . . ."
And with respect to domestic corporations:
"See. 238 (a). That in the case of a domestic corporation the total
taxes imposed for the taxable year by this title and by Title III shall
be credited with the amount of any income, war-profits and excessprofits taxes paid during the taxable year to any foreign country,'
upon income derived from sources therein, or to any possession of
the United States. ..."
" These provisions for deductions in the Revenue Act of 1918 were:
"Sec. 214 (a) . . . (3). Taxes paid or accrued within the taxable year imposed (a) by the authority of the United States, except
income, war-profits and excess-profits taxes; or (b) by the authority
of any of its possessions, except the amount of income, war-profits
and excess-profits taxes allowed as a credit under section 222; or (c)
by the authority of any State or Territory, or any county, school
district, municipality, or other taxing subdivision of any State or Territory, not including those assessed against local benefits of a kind

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

sion " foreign country " undoubtedly had the same meaning that it had in the prior income tax acts. 1' It will be
observed that taxes paid to the States of the Union, or
to their political subdivisions, were deductible from gross
income.'
But in the provisions introduced in the Act
of 1918 for credits against income taxes, such taxes paid
to the States of the Union, and to their political subdivisions, were not -included." This fact does not affect
the present question, for credits were allowed in the case
of income taxes paid to foreign countries, and the provision as to such countries was the same in the section relating to credits as in that with respect to deductions.
The slight difference in phraseology in §§ 222 and 238 as to
credits for taxes paid " to any foreign country," instead
of taxes imposed "by the authority of any foreign country," as in § 214 (a) and 234 (a)' is not important. As
the context plainly shows, both phrases were intended
to convey the same meaning. Thus § 234 (a) (3) (d)
provides for deduction. in computing the net income of
tending to increase the value of the property assessed; or (d) in the

case of a citizen or resident of the United States, by the authority
of any foreign country, except the amount of income, war-profits and
excess-profits taxes allowed as a credit under section 222; ..."
Section 234 (a) (3) (d) provided for a similar deduction of taxes
paid by a domestic corporation, excepting from such deductions the
credits allowed under section 238.
"Treasury Regulations No. 45, under the Revenue Act of 1918,
thus descriled these deductions: "Art. 131. To.es.-Federal taxes
(except income, war profits and excess profits taxes), State and local
taxes (except taxes assessed against local benefits of a kind tending to
increase the value of the property assessed), and taxes imposed by
possessions of the United States or by foreign countries (except the
amount of income, war profits and excess profits taxes allowed as a
credit against the tax), are deductible from gross income ...
supra, note 9.

"Supra, note 11.
'Supra, note 10.
lSupra, note 11.

"

See,

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
I

Opinion of the Court.

a domestic corporation, of the taxes imposed "by the authority of any foreign country, except the amount of income, war-profits and excess-profits taxes allowed as a
credit under section 238." The distinction made with respect to income taxes paid to the States of the Union, and
to their political subdivisions, between deductions from
gross income and credits against taxes, simply reflected the
economic policy adopted in making allowances for taxes
paid within the borders of continental United States and
the organized territories. In relation to income taxes paid
outside these borders, the provision as to credits was enacted to give greater and not less relief. Not only was
the same expression as to foreign countries used in the
section as to credits against income taxes as had been employed, and was still continued, as to deductions from
gross income, but that the reference was not to a governmnent having an international status was indicated by
the provision for similar credits in cases of income taxes
paid to "any possession of the United States."'to And
that the dominant thought in the mind of the Congress
was to allow a credit for income taxes paid in any
foreign country, whenever imposed by the authority of
a foreign government, is shown in the reports, above cited,
of the committees in connection with the Revenue Bill
of 1918."
No change, or qualification' was made in the use of the
term "foreign country" in the lRevenue Act of 1921, and
we think it must be regarded as having the same significance as it unquestionably had through the sei-es of the
prior income tax acts to which we have referred. The
same controlling purpose is manifest, and the credit provision, 'here in question, in relation to taxable dividends
"See §§ 222 (a) and 238 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918; supra,
f'Vt2

10.

SRUpra, net-. 6.
" Supra, notes 1 and 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

from foreign subsidiaries of domestic corporations was introduced not to narrow that purpose but to carry it out
more effectively. 9
The present controversy has arisen under the Treasury
Regulations adopted with respect to the Revenue Acts
of 1918 and 1921 as to credits.2" The Lmiliar principle
is invoked that great weight is attached to the construction consistently given to a statute by the executive department charged with its administration.
United
States v. Jackson, 280 U. S. 183, 193. But the qualification of that principle is as well established as the principle itself. The Court is not bound by an administrative
construction, and if that construction is not uniform and
consistent, it will be taken into account only to the extent that it is supported by valid reasons. United States
v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 278 U. S. 269, 280. See,
also, United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 161; United
States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136, 145; Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., 253 U. S.
97, 99. Moreover, ambiguous regulations are of little
value in resolving statutory ambiguities. In the Preliminary Edition of Treasury Regulations No. 45 under
the Act of 1918, Article 382 relating to credits stated;
"'Foreign country' means any governmental authority,
not that of the United States or any part or possession
thereof, having power to impose such taxes, and it therefore includes a self-governing colony, such as the Dominion of Canada." But this provision was shortly superseded in the amended Regulations No. 45, promulgated
10See reports of committees in relation to the Revenue Bill of 1921,
supra, note 7.
"0So far as deductions of taxes from gross income, in computing
net income, are concerned, the regulation under the Act of 1918 was
continued under that of 1921. Treasury Regulations No. 62, Art.
131; see, supra, note 12.

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
1

Opinion of the Court.

April 17, 1919, by a new Article 382 containing the following: "'Foreign ceuntry' includes within its meaning any foreign sovereign state or self-governing colony
(for example, the Dominion of Canada), but does not
include a foreign municipality (for example, Montreal)
unless itself a sovereign State (for example, Hamburg).
'Any possession of the United States' includes, among
others, Porto Rico, the Philippines and the Virgin
Islands." The Department thus sought to introduce a
qualification as to the significance of 'foreign country'
not found in the words of the statute, or in those of the
preceding income tax acts, or in departmental regulations under them, and one that was inconsistent with
the apparent purpose of the enactment. It was a qualification which not only did not conform to the view that
the expression 'foreign country' was limited to a foreign
State having the status of an international person under
international law, but, on the other hand, afforded no
definite criterion. Its phrase 'self-governing colony'
had no certain application, as there are colonies with
varying degrees of self-government, and if, in view of the
aim of the statute, it was important to draw a distinction with respect to self-government, it would appear
that the particular phase of autonomy that was relevant
to the purpose of the statute was the competency to impose income taxes upon the domestic corporation, or its
foreign subsidiary, with respect to which the relief was
granted. It is true that certain foreign political divisions
which formerly had not had an international status were
achieving it; but even that progress, at the time of the
adoption of the regulation in 1919,1 was still uncertain
both as to the quality and extent of the international
recognition which would be accorded, and, however imSee Oppenheim, International Law, 4th ed., vol. 1, §§ 63, 94a, 94b.
137818'--32--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

portant in other relations that progress might be, it was
not the concern of tl's statute, and its operation cannot be deemed to depend upon it. The departmental
regulation became the more ambiguous as it proceeded
with its illustrations relating to municipalities.
By § 216 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1918, a nonresident
alien individual was allowed credits for personal exemptions and for dependents if the 'country' of which he
was a citizen or subject allowed a similar credit to citizens
of the United States not residing in ' such country.' Article 307 of Regulations No. 45 gave a list of 'countries'
which satisfied the credit requirements of this provision.
This list was amended in later editions of these regulations, applicable to the Revenue Act of 1918, and embraced a great variety of 'countries,' including, for example, British Honduras, Ceylon, Cyprus, Fiji Islands,
Gibraltar, Gold Coast, Malay States, Mauritius, St. KittNevis, etc." - As already noted, the expression 'foreign
Article 307, Treasury Decisions, vol. 21, p. 245; vol. 23, p.
444; vol. 24, p. 118. As finally amended, the Article was as follows:
"Art. 307. When nonresident alien individual entitled to personal
exemption.-(a) The following is an incomplete list of countries
which either impose no income, tax or in imposing an income tax
allow both a personal exemption and a credit for dependents which
satisfy the similar credit requirement of the statute: Argentina, Bahama, Barbados, Basutoland, Bechuanaland Protectorate, Belgium,
Bermuda, Bolivia, Bosnia, Brazil, British Guiana, British Honduras,
Bukowina, Bulgaria, Canada, Carniola, Ceylon, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, including Bohemia, Moravia, and
Slovakia, Dalmatia, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Falkland Islands,
Fiji Islands, France, Galicia, Gambia, Germany, Gibraltar, Gold
Coast, Goritz, Gradisca, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Herzegovina,
Hongkong, Istria, Jamaica, Kenya, Luxemburg, Malay States, Malta,
Mauritius, Mexico, Montenegro, Montserrat, Morocco, Newfoundland,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Northern Rhodesia, Norway, Nyasaland Protectorate, Panama, Paraguay, Persia, Peru, Porto Rico, Portugal, Rumania, St. Kitt-Nevis, St. Helena, Santo Domingo, Serbia, Siam,
Sierra Leone, Silesia, Somaliland Protectorate, Spain, Swaziland, Switzerland, Trieste, Uganda Protectorate, Union of South Africa, Venezuela, Virgin Islands (British), Weihaiwei, Western Pacific Islands,
22See

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.

19

Opinion of the Court.

country' was used in § 222 (a) (3) of the Revenue Act
of 1918 in relation to credits allowed to an alien resident
of the United States for taxes upon income derived from
sources in such 'country,' if the latter allowed a similar
credit to citizens of the United States.2" Article 385 of
Regulations No. 45, set forth the list of ' countries' which
did or did not satisfy this reciprocal credit requirement.
This Article further illustrates the ambiguity of the
regulations. "4
Zanzibar Protectorate. (b) The following is an incomplete list of
countries which in imposing an income tax allow a personal exemption which satisfies the similar credit requirement of the statute, but
do not'allow a credit for dependents: Bachka, Banat of Temesvar,
Croatia, Finland, India, Italy, Salvador, Slavonia, Transylvania.
(c) The following is an incomplete list of countries which in imposing
an income tax do not allow to citizens of the United States not residing in such country either a personal exemption or a credit for
dependents and therefore fail entirely to satisfy the similar credit
requirements of the statute: Australia, Austria, including Carinthia,
Lower Austria, Salzberg, Styria, Tyrol, Upper Austria and Vienna,
Costa Rica, Dutch Guiana, Great Britain and Ireland, Japan, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Trinidad, Sweden. The former names of
certain of these territories are here used for convenience, in spite of
an actual or possible change in name or sovereignty. A nonresident
alien individual who is a citizen or subject of any country in the first
list is entitled for the purpose of the normal tax to such credit for
personal exemption and for dependents as his family status may warrant. If he is a citizen or subject of any country in the second list
he is entitled to a credit for personal exemption, but to none for dependents. If he is a citizen or subject of any country in the third
list he is not entitled to credit for either personal exemption or for
dependents. If he is a citizen or subject of a country which is in none
of the lists, then to secure credit for either a personal exemption or
for dependents he must prove to the satisfaction of the commissioner
that his country does not impose an income tax or that in imposing
an income tax it grants the similar credit required by the statute."
" Supra, note 10.
"Article 385 of Regulations No. 45 is as follows (Treasury Decisions, vol. 3, p. 473):
"Art. 385. Countries which do or do not satisfy the similar credit
requirement.-(a) The following is an incomplete list of the countries

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

It is urged that the Revenue Act of 1921 must be
deemed to have been adopted-with the meaning attributed to the term 'foreign country' by the regulations
under the Act of 1918. But regulations of such an ambiguous character supplying rno definite criterion cannot
be deemed to determine satisfactorily the interpretation
which satisfy the similar credit requirement of section 222 (a) (3) of
the Revenue Act of 1918, either by allowing to citizens of the United
States residing in such countries a credit for the amount of income,
war profits, or excess profits taxes paid to the United States upon
incomes derived from sources therein, or in imposing such taxes, by
exempting from taxation the incomes received from sources within
the United States by citizens of the United States residing in such
countries: Bulgaria, Canada, Italy, Newfoundland, Salvador. (b)
The following is an incomplete list of the countries which do not satisfy the similar credit requirement of section 222 (a) (3) of the
Revenue Act of 1918, either by allowing no credit to citizens of the
United States residing in such countries, for the amount of income,
war profits, or excess profits taxes paid to the United States upon incomes derived from sources therein, or because such countries do not
impose any income, war profits, or excess profits taxes: Argentina,
Bahama, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Bosnia, Brazil, Chile, China,
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Great Britain and Ireland, Guatemala, Herzegovina, India, Jamaica, Japan, Montenegro,
Morocco, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Persia, Peru,
-ortugal, Roumania, Santo Domingo, Serbia, Siam, Sweden, Switzerland, Venezuela. The former names of certain of these territories are
here used for convenience in spite of the actual or possible change in
the name or sovereignty. A resident of the United States who is a
citizen or subject of any country in the first list is entitled, for the
prpose of the total tax due the United States for 1918 and subsequent
years, to a credit for the amount of any income, war profits, and
excess profits taxes paid or accrued during the taxable year to such
country upon income from sources therein. If he is a citizen or subject of any country in the second list, he is not entitled to such credit.
If he is a citizen or subject of a country which is in neither list, then
to secure the desired credit he must prove to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner that his country satisfies the similar credit requirement
of the statute."

BURNET v. CHICAGO PORTRAIT CO.
Opinion of the Court.

1

of the statute. The Revenue Act of 1918 had continued
the expression ' foreign country' precisely as it had been
used in the preceding income tax acts without any such
restricting gloss, and the Act of 1921 continued the expression as used in the Act of 1918. In these circumstances, we are of the opinion that the expression 'foreign country' in the Act of 1921 should be deemed to
have the same significance in that Act that it had in the
prior acts and was not limited by the regulations adopted
under the Act of 1918. The regulations under the Act
of 1921 were of the same equivocal sort as those to which
we have referred under the Act of 1918, and can be
deemed to have no greater effect.2 The decisions of the
Treasury Department 2 applying these regulations have
no more force than the reasons given to sustain them and
these, in our opinion, furnish no adequate ground for
denying effect to the credit provisions of the statute in
accordance with their manifest purpose.
In this view, we find it unnecessary to consider the
arguments that have been adduced with respect to the
status of New South Wales in its relation to the Commonwealth of Australia. There is no question that New
South Wales levied the income taxes for which credit is
sought and that its government had adequate authority
to impose them.
We conclude that the Board of Tax Appeals and the
Circuit Court of Appeals were right in holding that these
income taxes fell within the statutory' provision as to
credits, and the judgment is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
"Regulations No. 62, Articles 382, 385.
"Solicitor's Memorandum No. 1187, October 18, 1919; Office Decision No. 1050, C. B. 5, p. 194, Solicitor's Memorandum No. 1614,

C. B. III-1, p. 227.

