LAMB v. CRAMER.
Syllabus.

LAMB v. CRAMER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 432.

Argued February 17, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. An attorney for a defendant in a suit to set aside conveyances in
fraud of creditors, received from his client while the cause was
pending a transfer of part of the property in controversy, as a fee
for legal services. Later a decree was entered adjudging that the
plaintiffs had liens on all the property involved and appointing a
receiver to liquidate the liens. Held:
(1) That the attorney took the transfer subject to the equities
alleged in the bill and to the decree. P. 219.
(2) His retention of the property after entry of the decree was
a contempt of court which might be proceeded against civilly.
P. 219.
(3) A proceeding in contempt for the purpose of forcing restoration of the diverted property in order to carry out the decree in
the main suit for the benefit of the plaintiffs was a civil proceeding.
P. 220.
2. The same conduct may be both civil and criminal contempt.
P. 221.
3. It is the purpose of the punishment, rather than the character of
the act punished, which determines whether the proceeding is for
civil or criminal contempt. P. 220.
4. A judgment of the District Court dismissing a civil contempt proceeding for want of jurisdiction, held final and appealable. P. 221.
5. A civil contempt proceeding in aid of a suit in equity and of the
decree made or to be made therein, may be maintained independently of the suit, and is independently appealable. Id.
6. Obscure assignments of error, held construable as asserting the
grounds of reversal adopted by the court below. Id.
7. In the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, a reversal
may be based upon an error appearing on the face of the record,
even though unassigned. Id.
48 F. (2d) 537, affirmed.

284 U. S. 609, to review a decree reversing
the dismissal of a petition to punish for contempt. See
the next case.
CERTIORARI,

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

Mr. Edward B. Burling, with whom Messrs. Emile
Godchaux, IW. Calvin Wells, Preston B. Cavanaugh, and
Arvid B. Tanner were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Gerald FitzGerald, with whom Messrs. Sam C.
Cook and Garner W. Green were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
48 F. (2d) 537, reversing a decree of the District Court
for Northern Mississippi, which quashed citation issued
on respondent's petition to punish Lamb for contempt,
and which dismissed the petition.
The petition was ancillary to a suit brought to set aside
conveyances of land and other dispositions of money and
personal property by the defendant Holland to other defendants, as in fraud of judgment creditors. The petition
set up that pending the suit Holland had transferred to
Lamb, who was acting as her attorney, a substantial part
of the property involved in the suit, said to have been in
payment of attorney's fees. It prayed citation against
Lamb, the petitioner here, to show cause why he should
not be held in contempt of court, and for other relief,
including an injunction restraining further transfers of
the property, and the cancellation of those already made,
Lamb appeared and answered the petition as one to
punish for contempt. Pending disposition of that proceeding, final decree, in the main cause, was entered on
consent, declaring that the judgments of the plaintiffs
in that suit were a lien on the property described in the
bill from the date of its filing, and appointing a receiver
to take possession of the property and liquidate the lien.
The decree as entered was stated to be without prejudice
to the rights of Lamb, who was not a party to it, and

LAMB v. CRAMER.
217

Opinion of the Court.

reserved to the court jurisdiction of the cause to make
further orders for the preservation of the rights of the
parties. The petition in the contempt proceeding then
pending was later dismissed by the district court on the
motion of Lamb, setting up want of jurisdiction of the
subject matter and of his person.
The court below rightly held that upon the facts presented by the petition, proceedings might be had against
Lamb, either by bill in equity, as was done by the supplemental bill filed by the receiver in Lamb v. Schmitt, post,
p. 222, or by contempt proceedings, as in the present case,
or by both, to compel restoration of the diverted property to the custody ,of the court. The petitioner, as
counsel in the principal suit, had notice of the equities
alleged in the bill. So far as he acquired, pendente lite,
any interest in the-property involved in the suit, he was
not only subject to those equities, but bound by any decree which the court might make with respect to it, to
tle extent that it might adjudicate the rights of the
plaintiffs against the defendants. Utah v. United States,
284 U. S. 534;. Mellen v. Moline Malleable Iron Works,
131 U. S. 352, 371; Tilton v. Cofield, 93 U. S. 163; Warren County v. Marcy, 97 U. S. 96, 105; cf. Terrell v, Allison, 21 Wall. 289. The provision in the decree that it
should be without prejudice to the rights of Lamb postponed until further order of the court the adjudication
of his rights, but did not forestall it. His receipt and
diversion of the property, which was then in gremio legis,
see Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S. 165, 173 et seq.; Pierce
v. United States, 255 U. S. 398, tended to defeat any
decree which the court might ultimatelyr make in the
cause. That and his retention of the property after the
decree was entered, were in fraud of the rights of the
plaintiffs to prosecute the suit to its conclusion, and an
obstruction of justice constituting a coptempt of court
which might be proceeded against civilly. Merrimack

220"

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

River Savings Bank v. Clay Center, 219 U. S. 527, 535536; Clay v. Waters, 178 Fed. 385, 390, 391. Cf. In re
Swan, 150 U. S. 637.
The objections chiefly urged by petitioner are that the
present proceeding was criminal in its nature, to punish
for criminal contempt, and hence the order dismissing
the petition was not appealable, United States v. Sanges,
144 U. S. 310, 323; Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United
States, 247 U. S. 402, 410; and that if the proceeding
be regarded as civil, still no appeal would lie from the
order of dismissal, because no appeal was taken from
the final decree in the principal suit.
We think it plain that the petition, although inartistically drawn, invoked the power of the court to punish
for contempt in aid of the adjudication sought in the
principal suit. Hence, the proceeding is to be deemed a
civil one and, as the order of the District Court finally
denied the relief sought, it could be appealed. The petition charged the contumacious acts of Lamb in diverting
the property, which was the subject matter of the principal suit. The prayer of the petition for relief, which
is determinative of the nature of the proceeding, see Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 448,
declared that its purpose was to secure restoration of the
diverted' property in order to carry out the decree in
the principal suit. The court cited Lamb to show cause
why he should not be punished for contempt and why
he should not be adjudged to hold the property subject
to the jurisdiction of the court.
To the extent that this purpose might be effected by
process against Lamb for contempt, the proceeding was
remedial, to aid in giving to the plaintiffs the property
which, as against the defendants in the principal suit,
they were entitled to receive. It is the purpose of the
punishment, rather than the character of the act punished, which determines whether the proceeding is for

LAMB v. CRAMER.
217

Opinion of the Court.

civil or criminal contempt. Gompers v. Bucks Stovc &
Ranige Co., loc. cit. supra; Doyle v. Louidon Guaranltec &
Accident Co., 204 U. S. 599, 604-605, 607. Even though
the particular acts of the petitioner may take the characteristics of both a civil and a, criminal contempt, and so
may not be classified as exclusively one or the other, see
Bessette v. 1V. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, 329, still,
under the allegations and prayer of the petition, it would
have been competent for the District Court to punish
the contempt by its coercive order until Lamb made restitution of the property or to impose a fine, payable to the
receiver, compensating for its taking. A proceeding to
secure such relief is civil in its nature. See Gompers v.
Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra, p. 449; Bessette v.
If. B. Conkey Co., supra, p. 338; Leman v. KrentlerArnold Hinge Last Co., 284 U. S. 448.
The decree of the District Court, dismissing the petition, finally adjudicated the rights asserted by it. Shaffer
v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 44; The Pesaro,255 U. S. 216, 217;
Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S. 516,
517. The proceeding, based on transactions had with the
property involved in the principal suit, was in aid of that
suit and of any decree which might be entered in it. It
could be maintained, independently of the suit, either
before or after the decree was entered, so long as it remained unsatisfied; and the appeal was not dependent
upon an appeal from the decree. See Root v. Woolworth,
150 U. S. 401, 411; Leman v. Krentler-Arnold Hinge Last
Co., supra; Gornpers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra,
pp. 451-452; Utah v. United States, supra.
The petition for certiorari urged as a ground for granting it that the court below reversed on errors not assigned.
It is true that the asSigImenta erroneously described the
order of the District Court as one sustaining a motion to
quash the service of process, a. mistake which may well
have been induced by the inept use of language in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

motion. But the assignments, despite their lack of clarity, are not incapable of being construed as asserting the
grounds for reversal adopted by the court below and
stated in this opinion. In any case, the court below was
not precluded from reversing for errors appearing on the
face of the record, even though unassigned. McBride v.
Neal, 214 Fed. 966, 969; United States v. Tennessee &
Coosa R. Co., 176 U. S. 242, 256; cf. Weems v. United
States, 217 U. S. 349; Duignan v. United States, 274 U. S.
195, 200. See also Rules 8 and 11, C. C. A. 5th; Johnson Farm Loan Co. v. McManigal, 288 Fed. 185, 186;
Grafton v. Meikleham, 246 Fed. 737, 738, cert. den. 246
U. S. 665; Jones v. Pettingill, 245 Fed. 269, 273-274, cert.
den. 245 U. S. 663.
Affirmed.
LAMB v. SCHMITT, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 433. Argued February 17, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.
1. The general rule that witnesses, suitors, and their attorneys, while
in attendance in connection with the conduct of one suit are immune
from service of process in another, is founded, not upon the convenience of the individuals but upon that of the court. P. 225.
2. The privilege should not be enlarged beyond the reason upon which
it is founded and should be extended or withheld as judicial necessities require. Id.
3. A nonresident attorney, attending the federal court as counsel for
a defendant in a suit over property, is not exempt from service
under a supplemental bill, the purpose of which is to require him to
restore to the court, in order that it may be subjected to a decree

in the main suit favorable to the plaintiff, a part of the fund in controversy which was transferred to him by his client while the main
suit was pending. P. 226.

