WESTERN DISTRIB'G CO. v. COMM'N.
112

119

Syllabus.

ranty. The fact that the defendant had incorporated
errors of law in the instructions which it sought upon the
second defense did not justify putting the case to the jury
solely upon the first. . Compare Westchester Fire Ins.
Co. v, Fitzpatrick, 2 F. (2d) 651, 654; Sutherland v.
Payne, 274 Fed. 360, 361; Rothe v. Pennsylvania Co.,
195 Fed. 21, 25; Audubon Bldg. Co. v. F. M. Andrews &
Co., 187 Fed. 254, 260. We are constrained to reverse
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, with directions that the case be. remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

thinks the judgment should

be affirmed.
WESTERN DISTRIBUTING CO. v. PUBLIC SERV-

ICE COMMISSION OF KANSAS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 337. Argued January 14, 1932.-Decided February 29, 1932.

1. Where a corporation selling natural gas locally procures its supply
by agreement in interstate commerce from a pipe-line company
with which it is so affiliated that the two are not at arm's length in
their dealings, the reasonableness of the interstate price is subject
to be inquired into by state authority when applied to by the local
company for permission to increase its local rate. Smith v. Illinois
Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133. P. 123.
2. A local distributor of natural gas, in a common corporate control
with an interstate pipe-line company from which it bought its supply in interstate commerce, sought to enjoin the enforcement of a
local rate in a partictilar city which the state commission had declined to increase without proof that the interstate price was reasonable. Held:
(1) Adjudications upholding the same wholesale rate in relation
to other cities of the State, in suits to which the city now in question
was not a party, do not make a prima facie case here. P. 125.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

285U.S.

(2) Undenied allegations to the effect that the distributor, though
it has tried, can not obtain its supply otherwise or at a lower price
than from the pipe-line company; and that the same price is
charged by that and other lines to other distributors, do not establish the reasonableness of the price in this case, in view of the
affiliation of the two companies. P. 125.
(3) In view of the relations of the two corporations, and the
power implicit therein arbitrarily to fix and maintain costs, as
respects the distributing company, which do not represent the true
value of the service rendered, the state authority is entitled to a
fair showing of the reasonableness of such costs, although this may
involve a presentation of evidence which would not be required in
the case of parties dealing at arm's length and in the general and
open market. P. 126.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, dismissing a bill to enjoin a state commission and
a city from enforcing local rates for gas, alleged to have
become confiscatory.

Mr. Robert D. Garver, with whom Mr. Robert Stone
was on the brief, for appellant.
The State of Kansas, through its regulatory body, the
Public Service Commission, is without authority, directly
or indirectly, to fix the price which shall be charged by
a pipe-line company for gas sold in interstate commerce,
notwithstanding that such pipe-line company may be affiliated with the distributing company to which it sells
gas by reason of the capital stock of the pipe-line company and distributing company being owned by a common holding company. It is our contention that the
law, as announced by this Court, in the cases of Public
Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236, and
Missouri v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298, was
not changed by the decision in Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel.
Co., 282 U. S. 133, and that the law of this case is the
same as it was at the time this Court held, in Missouri v.
Kansas Natural Gas Co., supra,with respect to this same
pipe-line company and this same Commission, that the

WESTERN DISTRIB'G CO. v. COMM'N.
119

121

Opinion of the Court.

rates of the pipe-line company were not subject to state
regulation. Since that decision many of the distribution
companies which were then unassociated with the pipeline company have been acquired by the holding company
which owns the capital stock of the pipe line company,
or its subsidiaries; and this affiliation, and the decision
of this Court in the Smith case, have been considered by
the Kansas Commission and the court below as changing
the law previously announced by this Court, and as having authorized and empowered the Commi'ssion to determine the reasonableness of the charges of the pipe-line
company engaged in interstate commerce, and to limit
the distributing company in its allowable operating expense for purchased gas to the rate which the Commission
so finds to be reasonable. Congress alone has the power
to regulate interstate commerce; and this is true whether
the company engaged in interstate commerce sells its
gas to a company with which it is affiliated or not. The
Cities Service Gas Company, engaged in interstate commerce, sells its gas to some distributing companies with
which it is affiliated and to others with which it is not.
The rule must of necessity be the same in each instance.
The requirements of the Constitution, admittedly existing before affiliation, are not changed by reason thereof,
and the state commission, which admits its lack of authority to proceed against the pipe'-line company engaged in
interstate commerce, can not indirectly accomplish the
same purpose by undertaking to determine what price it
should charge and by limiting affiliated distribution companies to the payment of that price.
Mr. Earl H. Hatcher, with whom Mr. Charles W.
Steiger was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellant, a West Virginia corporation, owns and
operates a distribution system for nattiral gas in Eldo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

rado, Kansas. August 17, 1920, rates for supplying local
consumers were fixed by order of the Court of Industrial
Relations of the State of Kansas, the body then vested
with authority in the premises. July 30, 1929, the company filed application with the Public Service Commission, one of the appellees, for an increase, averring that
the existing rates were insufficient to produce a fair
return, and asking an investigation and the establishment of such as would be just and equitable.
When the order of 1920 was made the appellant was
purchasing gas; delivered at the city gate, from Cities
Service Gas Company, and it still obtains its supply
from the same company. The current price is forty cents
per thousand cubic feet, which is paid under a day-to-day
verbal contract. This rate was originally established by
the Public Utilities Commission of Kansas in March,
1923, but its order in that behalf was subsequently rescinded for the reason that Cities Service Gas Company
is an interstate carrier and not subject to regulation by
the state. The forty cent rate, therefore, is not fixed
pursuant to the order or leave of any public authority.
Cities Service Gas Company is the owner and operator of interstate pipe lines and sells natural gas therefrom
to various distributing companies. The present corporate
relation between appellant and Cities Service Gas Company is as follows: The common stock of appellant is
owned by Gas Service Company, the capital stock of
which is in turn owned by Cities Service Company. The
common stock of Cities Service Gas Company is owned by
Empire Gas & Fuel Company, a controlling interest in
the capital stock of which is owned by Cities Service Company. In 1923, when the forty cent rate was put into
effect, the distributing companies, including the appellant, were not affiliated with the pipe-line company, but
in the following years Gas Service Company has acquired
control of the appellant and other local distributing com-

WESTERN DISTRIB'G CO. v. COMM'N.
119

123

Opinion of the Court.

panies which are dependent on the pipe line for their
supply of natural gas.
Appellant submitted to the Commission a valuation of
the property on which a fair return should be earned.
The showing was that there were no net earnings on this
value, but an annual loss of approximately $40,000. The
total expenses of operation and maintenance of the property for the year ending November 30, 1930, according
to the evidence, were $283,049.07, of which far the largest
item, $176,260.32, was for gas purchased. In view of these
facts, the Commission insisted that in order to determine
the reasonableness of the requested increase in retail
charges, inquiry must be made as to the propriety of the
forty cent rate. The company declined to make any showing with respect thereto, claiming that the Commission
was bound to allow it as a proper element of cost in fixing
the new retail scale. The Commission dismissed the proceeding. The appellant then filed a bill i the District
Court to restrain the further enforcement of the order of
August 17, 1920, or the existing rates thereby established,
and to enjoin the Commission from interfering with the
charging of reasonable rates until such time as some lawful
authority, acting in conformity with law, should approve
a new schedule, and to prevent the Commission, its members and representativ6s, from instituting or prosecuting
in any court or tribunal proceedings to litigate any of the
matters involved in the hearings before the Commission.
After answer by the appellees the matter was heard before a court of three judges, constituted as required by
ยง 266 of the Judicial Code, on the pleadings and proofs
submitted, and the bill was dismissed on the ground that
the appellant had not exhausted its remedy before the
Commission. Thereupon this appeal was taken.
First. The appellant asserts that the rate charge by the
pipe-line company for gas delivered at the city gate is an
interstate rate and not the subject of regulation by any

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

state authority. The soundness of this contention is conceded by the appellees. But the appellant argues that
any inquiry by the state commission into the reasonableness of this charge amounts to an indirect attempt at
regulation, an effort on the part of the state to circumvent the paramount federal authority over interstate
commerce, and hence aft atwinpt to do by. indirection
what is forbidden by the Federal Constitution. The appellees disclaim any intent to control rates charged for
interstate service, but say that as the Commission's function is to set reasonable rates for the intrastate service
rendered by appellant in the city of Eldorado, this necessarily requires a determination of the question whether
the price paid for the gas distributed is fair and reasonable. To this end the Commission insists upon its authority to make such investigation as will satisfy it upon
this point.
Having in mind the affiliation of buyer and seller and
the hinity of control thus engendered, we think the position of the appellees is sound, and that the court below
was right in holding that if appellant desired an increase
of rates it was bound to offer satisfactory evidence with
respect to all the costs which entered into the ascertainment of a reasonable rate. Those in control of the situation have combined the interstate carriage of the commodity with its local distribution in what is in practical
effect one organization. There is an absence of arm's
length bargaining between the two corporate entities involved, and of all the elements which ordinarily go to fix
market value. The opportunity exists for one member of
the combination to charge the other an unreasonable rate
for the gas furnished and thus to make such unfair charge
in part the basis of the retail rate. The state authority
whose powers are invoked to fix a reasonable 'rate is certainly entitled to be informed whether advantage has been
taken of the situation to put an unreasonable burden

WESTERN DISTRIB'G CO. v. COMM'N.
119

-125

Opinion of the Court.

upon the distributing company, and the mere fact thatthe charge is made for an interstate service does not constrain the Commission to desist from all inquiry as to its
fairness. Any other rule would make possible the gravest injustice, and would tie the hands of the state
authority in such fashion that it, could not effectively
regulate the intrastate service which unquestionably lies
within its jurisdiction.
The principles applicable in a rate investigation, where
similar corporate relationship existed, were recently announced in Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S.
133, 152-153, and no purpose would be served by repetition or elaboration of what was there said.
Second. It was shown that in proceedings in the state
courts of Kansas and in the United States District Court
for Kansas, the forty cent wholesale rate had quite recently been held reasonable with respect to sales at the
gates of other cities. The decisions in those cases were
put in evidence before the Commission, and the contention is that these constituted at least a prima facie case
for the propriety of the same rate at the city gate of
Eldorado. The city, though a party to this proceeding,
was not such in the cases mentioned. Obviously it is not
bound by the findings made with respect to other cities
and towns. Nor is the Commission so bound, for it is
admitted that the reasonableness of the rate as respects
Eldorado was not in issue in the earlier cases. How much
weight the Commission should give to these adjudications we need not here determine. What we do hold is
that they do not make a prima facie case in support of
the charge under attack
Third. The appellant adverts to the fact that in its bill
of complaint are included a number of averments not denied by the appellees. In brief these are that the company does not own or produce any natural gas; that the
only source of supply for the city of Eldorado is the main

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

of the Cities Service'Gas Company; that no supply at
a lower price can be obtained from any other source; that
the same rate is being charged to other distributing companies along the lines of the Cities Service Gas Company,
and was being charged by another independent pipe line
to another city; that an ineffectual effort had been made
to find local gas available to Eldorado; and that appellant
had attempted to get a lower rate from Cities Service Gas
Company but could not do so. It is urged that as these
averments were uncontradicted they constitute, when
taken with the facts previously stated, a prima facie case
for the reasonableness of the rate charged. This might
well be true were it not for the fact of unity of ownership
and control of the pipe line and the distribution system.
An averment of negotiation and effort to procure a reduction in the wholesale rate means little in the light of
the fact that the negotiators are both acting in the same
interest,--that of the holding company which controls
both. All of these facts so averred in the pleadings would
be far more persuasive 'vith respect to the propriety of
the rate if the parties were independent of each other and
dealing at arm's length. Where, however, they constitute but a single interest and involve the embarkation of
the total capital in what is in effect one enterprise, the
elements of double profit and of the reasonableness of
inter-company charges must necessarily be the subject of
inquiry and scrutiny before the question as to the lawfulness of the retail rate based thereon can be satisfactorily
answered.
Fourth. The argument is made that the proofs demanded by the Commission will involve an extensive and
unnecessary valuation of the pipe-line company's property and an analysis of its business, and that this burden
should not be thrown upon appellant. Whether this is so
we need not now decide. It is enough to say that in
.Yiew of the relations of the parties, and the power implicit

GALVESTON WHARF CO. -v. RY. CO.
119

Syllabus.

therein arbitrarily to fix and maintain costs as respects
the distributing company which do not represent the true
value of the service rendered, the state authority is entitled to a fair showing of the reasonableness of such costs,
although this may involve a presentation of evidence
which would not be required in the case of parties dealing
at arm's length and in the general and open market,
subject to the usual safeguards of bargaining and competition.
The judgment of the court below was right and it is
Affirmed.
GALVESTON WHARF CO. ET AL. v. GALVESTON,
HARRISBURG & SAN ANTONIO RAILWAY CO.
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.
No. 411.

Argued January 22, 25, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. Evidence held sufficient to support a finding by a state court that
goods constituting a through water-and-rail shipment had been
delivered by the water carrier, a steamship company, to a wharf
company, by being unloaded on the wharf company's pier and left
there under the full control of the wharf company, to be handled
and forwarded by it at its own convenience. P. 132.
2. A through bill of lading issued by the initial carrier upon an interstate shipment, governs the entire transportation and fixes the obligations of all participating carriers in so far as its terms are
applicable and valid. P. 134.
3. A clause in a bill of lading issued by the initial carrier for a through
shipment, providing that the carrier in possession of the goods
should be liable as at common law for any loss or damages,-held
applicable to a wharf company, an intermediate common carrier
furnishing a necessary link in the transportation, although not
named in the bill. P. 135.
4. The wharf company could not escape liability in such case upon the
grounds (a) that, by arrangement with the connecting carrier to
which it was to deliver the goods it was but the agent of the latter
(Missouri Pac. R. Co. v. Reynolds Co;, 268 U. S. 366, distinguished,)

