OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

of laws, upheld the action of the Secretary of State and
quashed the alternative writ. The court also decided
that "since the number of representatives for Missouri
.has been reduced the former districts no longer exist and
representatives must be elected at large." 45 S.W. (2d)

533. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
The questions are substantially the same as those which
were presented in Smiley v. Holm, decided this day, ante,

p. '355, and the judgment is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CRDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
QLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 454. Argued February 18, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.
1. Paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 of § 1 of the Ihterstate Commerce Act,
respecting extension and new construction of railroads, are restricted
to.carriers engaged in transporting persons or property ininterstate
and foreign commerce'and were intended to affect intrastate "commerce only as that may be incidental to the effective regulation of
interstate commerce. P. 390.
2. A company operating a ferry within a State under a state charter
held, capable, as a "party in interest," of instituting suit for the
purpose of annulling an order and certificate of the Interstate
Commerce Commission whereby permission was grant'ed a railway
,company to extend its line by a ferry over the same waters, and
'for the purpose of enjoining the railway from constructing and
.pperating such proposed ferry, it appearing from the bill that
such action might directly and adversely affect the welfare of the
plaintiff by changing the transportation situation. Id.
3. A suit of this kind is to be tried by the specially constituted
District Court, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22,
1913; 28 U. S. C., § 47. Id.

CLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY v. U. S. 383
382

Argument for Appellant.

4. The statute (28 U. S. C., §§ 46, 47) provides that suits to set
aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be
brought in the District Court against the United States, etc., .and
shall be heard before three judges, at least one of Whom must be- a
circuit judge. Held, that for the District of Columbia, such suits
are triable in the Supreme Court of the District before two judges
of that court and a judge of the Court of Appeals of the District.
P. 390.
5. In such a suit an order of the Commission permitting extension of
a railroad line by adding a ferry is not open to attackupon the
ground that the railroad has not corporate power to operate a
ferry. P. 391.
6. Where the right of a plaintiff to enjoin an interstate carrier from
constructing and operating an extension of its line depends upon
the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act (§ 1, pars. 18-20,)
forbidding such construction and operation unless a certificate of
convenience and necessity for the extension was granted the
defendant carrier by the Commission, the fact that the Commision
granted such an order, in a case within its jurisdiction, and upon
sufficient evidence, is a complete defense. Id.
7. Evidence before the Commission held enough to support its conclusion that extension of the railway company's line across Chesapeake Bay by means of a ferry would bring material advantages
to the public in the way of additional facilities for interstate transportation. P. 392.
.59 Wash. L. R. 410, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, which dismissed a bill to set aside
an order and a certificate of the Interstate Commerce,
Commission and for an injunction. 166 I. C. C. 293.
Messrs. Philip B. Perlman and Jesse I. Miller, with
whom Mr. George E. Edelin was on the brief, for appellant.
The certificate could be lawfully issued only upon a
showing that public convenience and necessity require the
establishment and operation of the ferry as a railroad
ferry or extension of the rail-way line, that is, a ferry to
be "used by or operated in connection with " the rail
line. Application of Utah Terminal Ry., 72 I. C. C. 89,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

285 U.S.

92; St. Clair Co. v. Interstate Transfer Co., 192 U. S. 454,
466-467; New York v. New England Transfer Co., 14
Blatchf. 159, 167; Golden Gate Ferry Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 204 Cal. 305. See also Fitch v. New Haven,
N. L. & S. Ry. Co., 30 Conn. 38; The Maverick, 16 Fed.
Cas. 1186; Chesapeake Ferry Co. v. Hampton Roads
Transp. Co., 133 S. E. 561.
The distinction is plain between a general ferry, which
is a link in the local public highways, and a railroad ferry,
which is merely a moving bridge to enable a railroad to
begin, continue or complete travel over its rails.
Unless there was a showing of urgent public need for
a railroad ferry, the existence of a public need for a general ferry was not sufficient to authorize the certificate.
It is submitted that the Congress has no power to provide for a certificate based upon a need for a general ferry
operating entirely within a single State; but Congress
has not attempted to exercise any such power.
There was no evidence showing any need for a railroad
ferry.
Where there is no evidence, or no substantial evidence,' to support a necessary finding, the certificate is
void. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., 027 U. S. 88, 91; Skinner & Eddy Corp. v. United
State$, 249 U. S. 557; Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. United
State, 264 U. S. 258; Tagg Bros. v. United States, 280
U. S. 420, 442.
The railroad has no authority, under the provisions of
its charter, to engage in a general ferry business.
Unless the certificate is set aside, appellant will suffer
great and irreparable damage.
It appearing that the certificate is void and that, unless
it be set aside, appellant will suffer great and irreparable
legal damage, appellant is entitled to institute and main..
tain this action. Jud. Code. § 212; Baltimore & 0. R. Co.
v. United States, 264 U. S. 258.

CLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY v. U. S.
382

385

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant is the proper party to maintain the suit.
Skinner & Eddy Corp. v. United States, 249 U. S. 557;
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. United States, 264 U. S. 258;
Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 35;
Anchor Coal Co. v. United States, 25 F. (2d) 462, 478;
Cleveland Ry. Co. v. Jackson, 22 F. (2d) 509; Western
Pacific Cal. R. Co. V. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S. 47.
Distinguishing: Sprunt & Son v. United States, 281
U. S. 249; Pittsburgh& W. Va. Ry. Co. v. United States,
281 U. S. 479; Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 40 F.
(2d) 921; Edward Hines Yellow Pine Trustees v. United
States, 263 U. S. 143.
Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. CharlesH. Weston,
Hammond E. Chaffetz, Daniel W. Knowlton, and Nelson
" Thomas were on the brief, for the United States and
Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees.
Mr. Jonathan C. Gibson, with whom Mr. George E.
Holmes,was on the brief, for the Chesapeake Beach Railway Co., appellee.
Messrs. William Preston Lane, Jr., Attorney General
of Maryland, G. C. A. Anderson, Assistant Attorney General, and Willis R. Jones, Deputy Attorney General, by
leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of the State of
Maryland, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Chesapeake Beach Railway Company, incorporated
under Maryland laws and carrier by *railroad subject to
the Interstate Commerce Act, operates a line twenty-nine
miles long which commences in the District of Columbia
and passes southeastward through Maryland to Chesapeake Beach, twenty miles south of Annapolis. Connec137818°-32-25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

tions are made and freight interchanged with the Baltimore & Ohio and Pennsylvania railroads. The charter
empowers it to build and operate a railroad, etc., to
construct docks, piers, bridges and retaining walls along
the bay shore and to "own and employ steamboats or
other vessels to connect the said railroad or railroads with
other points by water communication."
December 26, 1929, proceeding under § 1, pars. 18,
,19, 20, Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by Transportation Act, 1920, 49 U. S. C., the Railway Company
petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission to grant
a certificate declaring "-that the present or future public
convenience and necessity require or will require the construction, or operation, or construction and operation," of
the proposed addition or extension to its line. It stated
the purpose "to establish and operate, either directly or
through a wholly owned subsidiary, a ferry for the transportation of passengers and property between, the terminus of its said line at Chesapeake Beach, across Chesapeake
Bay [16 miles], and a point on Trippe's Bay in Dorchester County, Maryland." And it averred that "the
present and future public convenience and necessity require the establishment of the proposed ferry so as to
afford a direct route by rail and water between the City of
Washington and surrounding territory and the eastern
shore of Maryland and also to provide a direct route for
the transportation of automobiles and other vehicles
between such points."
Notice was given to the Governor of Maryland; "publication followed; all as required by the statute.
The. Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry Company (appellant),
Mvaryland corporation, which operates a,ferry from Annapolis across Chesapeake Bay, intervened and opposed
the Railway's application "for the reason that the ferry
service proposed to be operated by the applicant from

CLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY v. U. S. 387
382

Opinion of the Court.

Chesapeake Beach, Calvert County, Maryland, to a point
on Trippe's Bay in Dorchester County, Maryland, will interfere with and hamper the efforts of your petitioner to
give adequate service on its present route "-twenty miles
further north. It denied that present and future public
convenience and necessity require establishment, of the
proposed ferry. No other party asked to interyene or
offered objection to the requested certificate.
The Commission took evidence, heard the parties, made
a report, and, August 1, 1930, certified "that the present
and future public convenience and necessity require the
establishment by the Chesapeake Beach Railway Company of ferry service across Chesapeake Bay, in Calvert
and Dorchester Counties, Md., as set forth: in the application and said report."
The Ferry Company asked modification of the report,
order and certificate "in such manner as the Commission
may deem best to remove any doubt that the permission
granted the applicant is only for an extension of railroad
and not for the establishment- of a general ferry service."
Among other things, the petition therefor stated: "Your
petitioner does not question the authority or the wisdom
of this Honorable Commission in granting to the applicant
a .Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity if the
Commission construes the application of the Chesapeake
Beach Railway Company in this case to be an application
for a certificate, authorizing an extension of.its railroad.
That,. although the jurisdiction of this Honorable Commissio.n in this case is limited in law to the. grant of authority
to the applicant to extend its line of railroad across the
Chesapeake Bay by means of vessels, the Report, Order
and Certificate filed in this case on their face would seem
to indicate that the Commission has attempted to grant
to.the applicant authority to operate a general ferry across
the Chesapeake Bay between the points known as Chesa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

peake Beach, Calvert County, Maryland, and Trippe's
Bay, Dorchester County, Maryland. While your petitioner does not suggest that this Honorable Commission
has granted or attempted to grant to the applicant such a
certificate, which could be granted only by the State of
Maryland, yet the use of the language by the Commission
as follows: 'It is hereby certified, That the present and
future public convenience and necessity require the establishment by the Chesapeake Beach Railway Company of
ferry service across Chesapeake Bay, in Calvert and Dorchester Counties, Md., as set forth in the application and
said report' is, we most respectfully submit, misleading
and confusing." The request was denied October 13,
1930.
December 24, 1930, appellant here, as sole complainant, filed an original bill in the Supreme Court, District
of Columbia, against the Chesapeake Beach Railway
Company and all members of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, individually and as members thereof. Subsequently, the United States were made parties defendant. No others asked to come in or were added. After
stating complainant's business, and that the Interstate
Commerce Commission had granted the above described
certificate of public convenience and necessity, the bill
alleged that the order and certificate were null and without effect because the evidence before the Commission
showed the carrier lacked corporate power to operate the
ferry and had no actual use therefor in connection with
its road; also, that no present or future public necessity
and convenience required such operation. The prayer
asked an injunction prohibiting the proposed construction, maintenance and operation, pursuant to the order of
August 1, 1930, and "that it be adjudged, ordered and decreed that the said order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission of August 1, 1930, be set aside and annulled
ar -1 held for naught." Also, for general relief.

CLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY v. U. S. 389
382

Opinion of the Court.

The proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, the evidence presented there and its action were
presented to the court. The cause was heard at a special session held by one judge of the Court of Appeals
and two judges of the Supreme Court. A final decree
dismissed the bill and the cause is here upon direct appeal. 38 Stat. 208, 220, U. S. C., Title 28, § 345.
Section 1, par. 3, Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
by Transportation Act, 1920, provides that the term " railroad" as used in the Act, shall include all bridges, car
floats, lighters, and ferries used by or operated in connection with any railroad. Paragraph 18 prohibits carriers
from extending their lines, or constructing new ones,
"unless and until there shall first have been obtained from
the Commission a certificate that the present or future
public convenience and necessity require or will require
the construction, or operation, or construction and operation, of such additional or extended line of railroad."
Paragraph 19 prescribes the procedure in respect of applications for such certificates. Paragraph 20,-" from and
after issuance of such certificate, and not before, the carrier by railroad may, without securing approval other than
such certificate, comply with the terms and conditions
contained in or attached to the issuance of such certificate
and proceed with the construction, operation, or abandonment covered thereby. Any construction, operation or
abandonment contrary to the provisions of this paragraph
or of paragraph (18) or (19) of this section may be enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction at the suit
of the United States, the Commission, any commission or
regulating body of the State or States affected, or any
party in interest; and any carrier which, or any director,
officer, receiver, operating trustee, lessee, agent, or person,
acting for or employed by such carrier, who knowingly
authorizes, consents to, or permits any violation of the
provisions of this paragraph or of paragraph (18) of this

.OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

section, shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a
fine of not more than $5,000 or by imprisonment for not
more than three years, or both." Chap. 91, 41 Stat. 474,
477, 478; U. S. C. A., Title 49, § 1.
Sections 18, 19, and 20 were added to the Act to Regulate Interstate Commerce by the Transportation Act,
1920. They are restricted to carriers engaged in transporting persons or property in interstate and foreign commerce and were intended to affect intrastate commerce
only as that may be incidental to the effective regulation
of interstate commerce. Texas v. Eastern Texas R. Co.,
258U. S. 204, 213, 217.
Considering Texasv. Eastern R. Co., supra, Colorado
v. United States, 271 U. S. 153, Western Pacific California
R. Co. v. S'outhern Pacific Co., 284 U. S. 47, and Transit
Commission v. United States, 284 U. S. 360, it must be
held that appellant is a "party in interest" within the
meaning of the statute capable of instituting the present proceeding. The bill disclosed that the proposed and
permitted action might directly and adversely affect its
welfare by changing the transportation'situation. The
cause is one of the class to be tried by a specially constituted district court, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act,
Oct. 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220 (U. S. C., Title
28, § 47).
U. . Code, Title 28,§ 46 (Jud. Code, § 208). provides
that suits to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend any order
of the'Interstate Commerce Commission shall be brought
in the district court against the United States, &c. Section; 47 directs that they shall be heard before three
judges, at least one of whom must be a circuit judge.
It has been suggested that the Supreme Court of the
District. of Columbia cannot be regarded as a district
court; aid judges of the Court ofeAppeals of the District
are not circuit judges within those provisions; conse-

CLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY v. U. S. ,991
382

Opinion of the Court.

quently the District Supreme Court had no jurisdiction
to hear the present cause. The point is without merit.
Section 43, Title 18, District of Columbia Code, 1929,
provides that the Supreme Court "shall possess the same
powers and exercise the same jurisdiction, as the dstrict
courts of the United States, and shall be deemed a court
of the United States." Federal Trade CommisSion v.
Klesner, 274 U. S.145, 156, held that § 9,of the Federal
Trade Commission Act, conferring jurisdiction on the
Circuit Courts of Appeals to enforce, set aside, or modify
orders of the Commission, should be construed as conferring like jurisdiction upon the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia. "The parallelism between the
Supreme Court of the District and the Court of Appeals
of the District, on the one hind, and the district courts
of the United States and the circuit courts of appeals, on
the other, in the consideration and disposition of cases
involving what among the States would be regarded as'
within federal jurisdiction, is complete." And see Pitts v.
Peake, 50 F. (2d) 485.
Whether the Railway Company has corporate power to
operate the proposed ferry is a question which cannot
be considered in this proceeding. We think Congress
never intended to impose upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission the duty of determinig matters of this nature before granting or withholding assent to the construction of an extension. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 275 U. S.404, 414.
The right of appellant Ferry Company to institute and
maintain this'proceeding rests wholly upon the permission granted by paragraph 20, § 1. "Any party in interest" may institute a suit to enjoin proposed construetion, operation, or abandonment of a carrier's line unless
it has obtained a certificate of public convenience and
necessity from the Interstate Commerce Commission. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S,

the absence of such certificate the doing of any of these
things is declared to be unlawful-a crime subject to punishment by fine and imprisonment. And the permission
is to apply to the court for an order to arrest the unlawful
undertaking. The inhibition applies where there is no
certificate in fact, or where the Commission lacked power
to grant the outstanding one because of insufficient evidence to support its findings or other reason. An invalid
certificate would leave the situation as though none had
issued. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. United States, 274
U. S. 29.
Here, undoubtedly, the Commission had power to entertain and act upon the Railway's petition, also to grant
the certificate of public convenience and necessity upon
sufficient evidence. If the record discloses such evidence,
the certificate is not a nullity and the Ferry Company
has no right now to demand decision of any other
question.
We think there was enough evidence-when material
and conflicting we may not pass upon its weight-to support the Commission's conclusion. A large district on the
Eastern Shore of Chesapeake Bay lacks adequate railroad
connection with Washington and points beyond. The
possibilities of the proposed ferry, operated as a part of
the Railway's line, were disclosed and the Commission's
conclusion that material advantages to the public would
result from the additional facilities for interstate transportation is not without support.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
M'[R. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

