502

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
285 U.S.

Syllabus.

SPENCER KELLOGG & SONS, INC. v. HICKS,

ADMINISTRATRIX,

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 430. Argued February 16, 17, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.
1. A corporation operating a factory on the New Jersey side of the
Hudson River owned a launch which it used for ferrying employees
to and from their work there, a distance of somewhat more than
a mile. The launch was not seaworthy when ice was in the river,
and the company had therefore instructed the manager of the
factory, who also controlled the use of the launch, not to allow
it to be used when ice was, or was likely to be, present. Disobedience to these instructions,- by the master of the launch, resulted in injuries and deaths of passengers. Held:
(1) In view of weather conditions and observation of ice in
the river some days before, the manager should not have rested
upon a mere instruction to the master not to run through ice, but
should have assured himself by inquiry or by personal investigation
that the launch would not incur the hazard. P. 510.
(2) The manager's agency was such that his "privity or knowledge" was that of the company. P. 511.
(3) The company being thus chargeable with negligence in not
taking measures for the safety of the passengers which the weather
conditions required could not, under R. S., § 4283, limit its liability
to the value of the launch. P. 511.
(4) The rule exculpating the ship-owner from "privity or
knowledge" in cases of accident on the high seas due to the master's negligence in disobeying instructions, is inapplicable to this
case. P. 511.
2. Where an employer of laborers owned a boat in which it transported them to and from their work, on navigable waters of the
United States, and the boat while so employed was sunk by
negligence,-held a maritime tort for which the survivors and the
representatives of the dead were entitled to relief in a court of
admiralty under the rules recognized by admiralty, including a
*Together

with No. 444, Alexander, Administratrix, et al. v.

Spencer Kellogg & Sons, Inc.

SPENCER KELLOGG CO. v. HICKS.
502

Argument for the Company.

state statute allowing recovery for death by wrongful act; and
that the remedies afforded by a state workmen's compensation law
were inapplicable. P. 513.
52 F. (2d) 129, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 610, 611, to review the affirmance
of a decree in admiralty which held the above-named petitioner responsible for injuries and deaths resulting from
the sinking of a vessel, and, because of its privity and
knowledge, denied its application to limit its liability.
Petitioners in the second case, No. 444, were denied relief
by the decree, upon the ground that their claims should
be prosecuted under a state workmen's compensation law.

Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Messrs. Chauncey I.
Clark, Leonard J. Matteson, and George S. Brengle were
on the brief, for Spencer Kellogg & Sons, Inc.
The petitioner had exercised the utmost care to prevent
the running of the "Linseed King" when there was ice
in the river. Definite instructions had been issued by. the
officers of the corporation to the manager of the plant that
the boat should not be run in ice, and these instructions
had been passed on to everyone who had anything to do
with the boat, including the captain.
There was no ice in the Hudson River in the vicinity of
petitioner's plant prior to the day of the accident, excepting a small quantity which appeared for a short time on
the early morning of the previous day (Sunday); and
neither the manager of petitioner's plant nor any of his
subordinates in the management of the plant was chargeable with notice of any ice in the river prior to the
accident.
The precautions taken by the petitioner were adequate.
The petitioner is entitled to a limitation of liability.
The burden was on the claimants to prove that a wilful
departure from its instructions was countenanced by petitioner. La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 126, 127; Butler v.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for the Company.

285 U. S.

Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, 549; Richardsonv. Harmon,
222 U. S. 96, 105; The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468;
The North Star, 106 U. S. 17; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24,;
Craig v. Continental Ins. Co., 141 U. S. 638, 646; Ameri,.canHawaiian S. S. Co. v. Pacific S. S. Co.,
41 F (2d) 718;
Kitsap County: Transp. Co. v. Harvey, 15 F. (2d) 166;
Warnken v. Moody, 22 F. (2d) 960; Standard Wh.olesale
Works v. Chesapeake L. & T. Co., 16 F. (2d) 765; Quinlan
v. Pew, 56 Fed. 111; The North Star, 3 F. (2d) 1010.
The limitation of liability acts apply to motor launches,
yachts, and other vessels of this type. In r'e Luvina, 1927
A. M. C. 327; Warnken v. Moody, 22 F. (2d) 960; In re
Benedict, 282 Fed. 238.
Mere; negligence of servants or employees of the shipowner will not defeat the right of limitation, which is
only denied on the ground of the knowledge or privity of
the owner himself. La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 122;
The Oneida, 282 Fed. 238, 241-; The 84-H, 296 Fed. 427,
431; The Colima, 82 Fed. 665, 679, and cases supra.
The privity or knowledge must be that of the managing officers of a corporation and not merely negligence of
servants and employees. Craig v. Continental Ins. Co.,
141 U. S. 638, 646.
The operation of the New Jersey Workmen's Compensation Act (Laws, 1911, c. 95), is not excluded or affected
by the general maritime law or by the limitation of liability acts. Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257
U. S. 469; State Industrial Board v. Terry & Tench Co.,
273 U. S. 639; and Millers Underwriters v. Braud, 270
U. S. 59, are precisely in point. The Linseed King"
sank in navigable waters; but the petitioners were regular employees of Spencer Kellogg & Sons, Inc., who
worked in the factory at Edgewater. There was nothing
even remotely maritime about their employment. And,
as in the Rohde case, they had contracted under and with
reference to the exclusive provisions of the state compen-

SPENCER KELLOGG CO. v. HICKS.
502

Counsel for other Parties.

sation act. See Alaska Packers v. Industrial Accident
Commission, 276 U. S. 467; London Co. v. Industrial
Commission, 279 U. S. 109, 121.
Workmen's compensation is consistent with limitation
of liability. Cf. Richardsonv. Harmon,222 U. S. 96; Millers Underwriters v. Braud, 270 U. S. 59; Baizley Iron
Works v. Span, 281 U. S. 232; The Aquitania, 20 F. (2d)
457; Langnes y. Green, 282 U. S. 531; The Titanic, 233
U. S. 718, 733.
In considering this general subject, it must be borne
in mind that the admiralty law affords no remedy for
wrongful death in such a case as this, and in awarding
damages, the admiralty courts are merely enforcing a state
statute. The Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199; The Hamilton,
207 U. S. 398.
It is well settled, however, that if the limitation proceedings were dismissed, and the claimants attempted to
proseCute the actions which a number of them now have
pending in the New York state courts, they would find
themselves barred by the New Jersey Workmen's Compensation Act, and would be remitted to their remedy
before the New Jersey Compensation Bureau. See Barnhart v. American Concrete Steel Co., 227 N. Y. 531.
The application of the New Jersey Workmen's Compensation Act was not affected by the filing of the petition for limitation of liability.
Miss Elizabeth Robinson, with whom Messrs. Lucien
V. Axtell and Vernon S. Jones were on the brief, for
Alexander et al.
Mr. Lester Hand Jayne for Roberts et al.
Messrs. Samuel B. Seidel and Sidney Newborg filed a
brief for Ifill et al.
Messrs. Walter R. Kuhn and George W. Riley filed a
brief for Hicks.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of Ihe Court.
MR. JusTicE

ROBERTS

285 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cross-writs were granted in a proceeding for
limitation of liability under Sec. 3, Act of March 3, 1851,
c. 43,1 initiated by Spencer Kellogg & Sons, Inc., owner
of the motor launch " Linseed King," which sank on December 20, 1926, causing personal injuries and loss of
life.
Kellogg & Sons is a New York corporation engaged in
the manufacture of linseed oil at a number of factories,
among them one at Edgewater, New Jersey, on the west
shore of the Hudson River, opposite 96th Street, New
York. The home office of the corporation is in Buffalo,
where the chief executive officers reside. The Edgewater
plant employs many workmen who live in New York.
In order to ferry these men to and from the factory the
company owned and operated the " Linseed King," a
gasoline launch of a length of forty-five feet and a beam
of ten feet, having a small wheel house forward, and behind that an enclosed cabin which occupied practically
the entire deck space. The company's practice was to
send the boat from Edgewater, early in the morning, to
the foot of 96th Street, where the men wenton bbard and
were transported to the factory in time for their work.
Although the safe load was estimated at not over sixty
passengers, she had eighty-six life preservers aboard and
had frequently carried more than eighty persons. This
number seriously crowded her cabin, the total superficial
area of which was two hundred thirty-three square feet,
two lengthwise seats occupying about one-third of- the
space.
'9 Stat. 635; 1.S. § 4283; U. S. C., Tit. 46, § 183, as amended by
§ 4 of the Act of June 19, 1S86, c. 421; 24 Stat. 80; R. S. § 4289,

U. S. C., Tit. 46, § 188.

SPENCER KELLOGG CO. v. HICKS.
502

Opinioh of the Court.

On the morning in question the boat left the New Jersey pier before daybreak, in charge of one man. As the
New York shore was approached drift ice was encountered
which had come down the river during the night and been
driven to the easterly side by a west wind. The launch
passed safely through the ice and reached the foot of 96th
Street. There another of the company's employees, who
was detailed to give general assistance and may be considered a deckhand, came on board. The launch was immediately filled from a crowd of waiting men. It is difficult to ascertain exactly how many boarded her: but the
courts below have found that there were at least seventyeight. On the return trip the thicker part of the ice
towards the New York shore was successfully traversed,
and when the master considered himself clear of ice he
proceeded at full speed,-about seven miles an hour.
Shortly thereafter a cake or floe of ice stove a hole in the
boat's port bow and caused her to fill and sink in about
two minutes. The result was a panic in the cabin, a rush
for-the exits, which were small, and one of which opened
inward, thus being difficult of operation on account of the
crowded condition. Some of the passengers were thrown
into the river, reached floating cakes of ice, and were rescued. Thirty-five bodies were found in the cabin, but the
number lost was never definitely determined.
Actions were brought in the New York courts against
Kellogg & Sons by certain of the survivors and by the administrators of some of those who had been drowned.
One libel was filed in the District Court for Southern New
York. Claims were made by others and suits threatened.
The company filed a petition for limitation and sought an
injunction against all proceedings upon any claim, including those for workmen's compensation under the New Jersey act, except that no injunction was asked against the
mere filing of claims with the New Jersey State Work-

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

men's Compensation Bureau. The launch was surrendered, its value ascertained as $1,500, proper stipulation
entered, and an order of reference made to a commissioner
to receive claims. An injunction pendente lite was issued
as prayed embracing not only the claimants, but the State
Compensation Bureau, service being made upon the secretary of that body. Claims were filed, and the claimants
in their answers to the petition denied the company's
right to limitation.
Upon the issues so made the cause came on for hearing
before the District Court, and at the conclusion of the
evidence that court denied the owner's right to limit and
referred all of the claims to a commissioner for report as
to their validity and the amounts to be awarded. The
latter recommended awards to sundry claimants. On exceptions the District Court confirmed some and altered
others.
Those who were killed and injured in the disaster were
of three classes: (1) Regular employees of Kellogg &
Sons in the Edgewater plant; (2) Men who had applied
on December 18 for work in discharging the cargo of a
ship expected on that day. She did not then arrive, and
they were given employment check stubs and told to
return on the following day, which, they did; but as she
had not then docked they were advised to report again
on the morning of the accident. The vessel had berthed
the evening before, and if these men had succeeded in
reaching the pier at Edgewater they would have been
preferred in the allotment of work in discharging her
cargo. (3) Men seeking employment in answer to an
advertisement for laborers inserted in the New York newspapers, who had, however, not been interviewed by the
company officials, and who would therefore have had to
apply and be accepted upon arrival at the Edgewater
pier.

SPENCER KELLOGG CO. v. HICKS.
502

Opinion of the Court.

The owner insisted that as the men in groups (1) and
(2) were employees within the intent of the workmen's
compensation law of New Jersey their remedy was exclusively under that act, and no damages could be granted
to any of them or to, the personal representatives of deceased meibers of these classes in this proceeding. No
such objection was urged against awards to men in the
third class. The commissioner overruled the owner's
contention, held the workmen's compensation act was
inapplicable, and all of the claimants should receive
awards in the admiralty court. Upon exceptions the District Court reversed the commissioner's conclusions and
held that those falling within The first class must be dismissed from the case, as any redress to which they were
entitled was under the New Jersey act, but that the men
in the second had never been actually employed, and
were consequen.tly outside the compensation law, and the
commissioner's recommendations as to awards to lhem
should be confirmed. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the action of the District Court.
The petition for certiorari (No. 430) by the owner
alleged error in refusing to limit liability and in not remitting the claimants in The second group to their remedy
under the workmen's compensation act. Claimants of
the first group also filed a petition (No. 444) asserting
the court below improperly disposed of their claims, and
that they were entitled to awards in the pending cause.
The cases were heard together.
The first question for decision is whether Kellogg &
Sons, as owner, was entitled to a decree limiting its liability. The master's negligence is not denied; indeed
the owner proved that definite and peremptory instructions had been given him never to run when there was
ice in the river. His disregard of these was the proximate
cause of the disaster.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

The right to limit liability turns upon whether such
negligence was with the owner's privity or knowledge. 2
Both courts below, after painstaking examination of the
.evidence, found there was such privity or knowledge and
accordingly ruled that the claim for limitation must be
denied. We accept this concurrent finding. There was
sufficient evidence to support it.'
The "Linseed King" was admittedly unfit to run
through ice. This fact was known to the owner's executive officers, who had instructed one Stover, the works
manager and representative of the company in charge of
the Edgewater plant, that the boat should never be run
through ice, and that as soon as ice showed itself in the
river she was to be laid up for the winter, lie was also
directed that whenever there was a likelihood of the presence of ice all trips were to be made only in broad daylight, and even these were to be discontinued when ice
definitely appeared. The decision as to when the ferry
should be withdrawn for the winter rested with him.
In view of the weather conditions and the observation
of ice in the river some days prior to the accident by several witnesses, amongst them one of Stover's own subordinates, he should not have rested upon the mere instruction
to the master not to run through ice. Before allowing
the ferriage operation he was under obligation to assure
himself by inquiries or by personal inspection that the
"Linseed King" should not incur the hazard of colliding,
as she did, with ice floes in the river.
2

R. S. § 4283; U. S. C., Tit. 46, § 183.

of any vessel .

.

" The liability of the owner

. for any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or for-

feiture, done, occasioned, or incurred without the privity or knowledge
of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or value
of the interest of such owner in such vessel, and her freight then
pending."
'The Hypodame, 6 Wall. 216, 223; The North Star, 106 U. S. 17,
18; The Carib Prince, 170 U. S. 655, 658; Oelwerke Teutonia v.
Erlanger,248 U. S. 521, 524.

SPENCER KELLOGG CO. v. HICK"S.
502

Opinion of the Court.

We agree with the courts below that Stover's position
as works manager of the Edgewater plant and the scope of
his authority render his privity or knowledge that of the
company. Parsons v. Empire Trans. Co., 111 Fed. 202;
Oregon R. L. Co. v. Portland& A. S. S. Co., 162 Fed. 912;
Sanbern v. Wright & Cobb Co., 171 Fed. 449; aff'd 179
Fed. 1021; Boston Towboat Co. v. Darrow-MannCo., 276
Fed. 778. Compare Craig v. Continental Ins. Co., 141
U. S. 638, 647. The owner was therefore chargeable with
negligence in not taking measures for the safety of the
passengers which the weather conditions required, Texas
& Gulf S. S. Co. v. Parker,263 Fed. 864; The Virginia, 264
Fed. 986; aff'd 278 Fed. 877.
It is said that the master,- admittedly competent, had
definite and postive instructions not to run through ice;
that when he encountered ice on his trip from the New
Jersey shore, it became his duty at once to abandon the
trip and return to the Edgewater plant. The argument is
that as the boat was seaworthy when there was no ice
and instructions had been given to a competent master not
to run her through ice, the owner did its full duty and
cannot be held responsible as having privity or knowledge
of a violation by the master of these explicit instructions.
Cases such as La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, which involved
the master's failure to obey rules and instructions when
on the high seas and disaster attributable to such fault, are
cited. But there is a vast difference between the cases relied on and the instant one. The launch was used for ferriage over a distance of about a mile and a third. She was
known to be unseaworthy and unfit if there was ice in the
river. There is no analogy between such a situation and
that presented in the cited cases where the emergency
must be met by the master alone. In these there is no
opportunity of consultation or co~peration or of bringing
the proposed action of the master to the owner's knowledge. The latter must rely upon the master's obeying

)CTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

rules and using reasonable judgment. The conditions on
the morning in question could have been ascertained by
Stover, if he had used reasonable diligence, and'we think
the evidence is adequate to support the finding that the
negligence which caused the disaster was with his, and
therefore with the owner's, privity or knowledge.
What was the duty of the admiralty court after it found
the circumstances did not permit limitation of liability?
Having found that certain claimants were within the scope
of the workmen's compensation act the District Court refused them any awards and remitted them to the Compensation Bureau. This was approved by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. But we think that the admiralty court,
having taken jurisdiction and brought all claimants into
concourse, should have given complete relief. Hartford
Accident & Indemnity-Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273
U. S. 207. The petitioners in No. 444 maintain, first, that
the state statute providing workmen's compensation is inapplicable to the maritime torts here in question and that
they were entitled to relief under the maritime law or the
death statutes of New York adopted as part of that system.
Secondly, they say that the owner having invoked the
jurisdiction of admiralty, enjoined prosecution of claims
before the Workmen's Compensation Bureau, compelled
claimants to appear in the admiralty court to try the
question of limitation, and delayed for years any prosecution before the Bureau, has chosen its forum, forced them
to litigate therein, and the jurisdiction so lawfully attaching cannot be surrendered in favor of that under the
workmen's compensation law of the state. As we think
the first contention well founded we have no occasion to
pass upon the second.
Kellogg & Sons undertook the interstate carriage of
passengers by water on a launch operated by its servants.
This was a maritime matter. The ferriage was for the
facilitation of the company's business and for its con-

SPENCER KELLOGG CO. v. HICKS.
502

Opinion of the Court.

venience as well as that of the employees.' The injury
to the passengers resulted from negligence of the company's agents in the navigation of the launch. It was
a maritime tort. The rights and obligations of the parties depended on and arose out of the maritime law. A
proceeding to impose liability for such a tort is a cause
in admiralty within the meaning of Article III, See. 2 of
the Constitution, triable in the United States courts sitting in admiralty. Leathers v. Blessing, 105 U. S. 626,
630; Workman v. New York, 179 U. S. 552, 565; Atlantic
Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 58; § 9, Judiciary Act of 1789.' As the tort, though maritime, was
committed upon the waters of the state of New York, the
personal representatives of those who lost their lives were
entitled to sue in gdmiralty and to recover as provided
by the state statute giving a. remedy for death by wrongful act. American Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522,
531; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; Western Fuel Co. v.
Garcia,257 U. S. 233; Washington v. Dawson, 264 U. S.
219, 226.
The workmen's compensation law of New Jersey, the
purpose of which was to supersede the common law redress in tort cases and statutory rights consequent upon
death by wrongful act, and to substitute a commuted
compensation for injury or death of an employee, irrespective of fault, is not applicable to the injuries and
deaths under consideration.
The decisions hold that the remedy which the compensation statute attempts to give is of a character wholly
unknown to the common law, incapable of enforcement
In such circumstances the New Jersey Compensation Law is applied by the courts of that State, which hold that the relation of
employer and employee exists during such transportation. DePue v.
Salmon Co., 92 N. J. L. 550; 106 Atl. 379; Alberta ContractingCorp.
v. Santomassimo, 107 N. J. L. 7; 150 AtI. 830.
'1 Stat. 76, 77; Jud. Code, §§ 24 and 256; U. S. C. Tit. 28, § 41
(3); § 371 Third.
137818°'3a-----33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

by. the ordinary processes of any court, and is not saved
to suitors from the grant of exclusive jurisdiction to the
courts of the United States of all civil cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 218; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co.,
247 U. S. 372; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253
U. S. 149; Washington V. Dawson, supra. None of the
employees or the personal representatives here concerned
could have proceeded in admiralty to enforce the workmen's compensation law of New Jersey. That law has
not been recognized and taken up as part of the admiralty
jurisprudence of the United States.
The compensation act is inapplicable to such a maritime tort, and the injured person is entitled to his remedy
under rules recognized- in admiralty. Messel v. Foundation Co., 274 U. S. 427; Warren v. Morse Drydock &
RZepair Co., 235 N. Y. 445, 447; 139 N. E. 569.
In the Jensen case, supra, this Court said:
"And finally this remedy [under the compensation act]
is not consistent with the policy of Congress to encourage
investments in ships manifested in the Acts of 1851 and
1884 (Rev. Stats., §§ 4283-4285; § 18, Act of June 26,
1884, c. 121, 23 Stat. 57) which declare a limitation upon
the liability of their owners."
Kellogg & Sons sustained towards employees injured or
killed the dual relationship of a carrier by water and a
general employer at its Edgewater plant.' Under the federal statutes the company, acting in the first capacity, was
entitled to a limitation of liability unless the claimants
could prove negligence with the owner's privity or knowledge. They assumed the burden of proving such negligence. They sustained it and are entitled to recover
according to the rules of the maritime law, including, of
course, any applicable death statute.
'ee

note 4, supra.

-CALLAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
502

515

Syllabus.

The court below was right in refusing a limitation of
liability and in holding that the applicants for employment who had been told to return on the morning in question were entitled to awards in this proceeding; but it
erred in denying awards according to the rules recognized
in admiralty to the surviving employees and personal
representatives of deceased employees of Kellogg & Sons,
and remitting them to their remedy under the New Jersey
Compensation Act. The decree is therefore reversed and
the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in
so much of the opinion as holds that limitation of liability
was rightly refused. They concur also in the conclusion
that Kellogg & Sons are liable in this proceeding, but they
do so upon the ground that the owner having invoked, as
stated, the jurisdiction in admiralty, it cannot be surrendered in favor of. that under the workmen's compensation law of the state.

MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

is of opinion

that the

petition in No. 444 is not well founded and that the decree
should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
CALLAHAN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH4E
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 576.

Argued March 14, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

1. One who aids and abets importation of intoxicating: liquor contrary to § 3 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act, which
prohibits unlicensed importation, violates § 593 (b) of the Tariff

