OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

motion. But the assignments, despite their lack of clarity, are not incapable of being construed as asserting the
grounds for reversal adopted by the court below and
stated in this opinion. In any case, the court below was
not precluded from reversing for errors appearing on the
face of the record, even though unassigned. McBride v.
Neal, 214 Fed. 966, 969; United States v. Tennessee &
Coosa R. Co., 176 U. S. 242, 256; cf. Weems v. United
States, 217 U. S. 349; Duignan v. United States, 274 U. S.
195, 200. See also Rules 8 and 11, C. C. A. 5th; Johnson Farm Loan Co. v. McManigal, 288 Fed. 185, 186;
Grafton v. Meikleham, 246 Fed. 737, 738, cert. den. 246
U. S. 665; Jones v. Pettingill, 245 Fed. 269, 273-274, cert.
den. 245 U. S. 663.
Affirmed.
LAMB v. SCHMITT, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 433. Argued February 17, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.
1. The general rule that witnesses, suitors, and their attorneys, while
in attendance in connection with the conduct of one suit are immune
from service of process in another, is founded, not upon the convenience of the individuals but upon that of the court. P. 225.
2. The privilege should not be enlarged beyond the reason upon which
it is founded and should be extended or withheld as judicial necessities require. Id.
3. A nonresident attorney, attending the federal court as counsel for
a defendant in a suit over property, is not exempt from service
under a supplemental bill, the purpose of which is to require him to
restore to the court, in order that it may be subjected to a decree

in the main suit favorable to the plaintiff, a part of the fund in controversy which was transferred to him by his client while the main
suit was pending. P. 226.

LAMB v. SCHMITT.
222

Argument for Petitioner.

4. The question of immunity is to be determined by the nature of the
proceeding in which service on the attorney is made and its relation
to the principal suit, as disclosed by the pleadings. P. 228.
48 F. (2d) 533, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 609, to review a decree reversing
an order quashing service of a subpoena to answer a
supplemental bill.
Mr. Edward B. Burling, with whom Messrs. Einle Godchaux, W. Calvin Wells, Preston B. Cavanaugh, and
Arvid B. Tanner were on the brief, for petitioner.
If process is served on persons who are in the jurisdiction solely on business with the court, the service will be
quashed. Stewart v. Ramsey, 242 U. S. 128; Page Co. v.
Macdonald, 261 U. S. 446; Central Trust Co. v. Milwaukee St. Ry. Co., 74 Fed. 442; Read v. Neff, 207 Fed. 890;
Durst v. Tautges, Wilder & McDonald, 44 F. (2d) 507.
The case discloses no reason for creating any exception
to the general rule. The rule is inflexible.
That the suit in which the process was issued is ancillary does not create an exception. Parties must be
brought into the proceeding in the same manner as in
case of an original bill. Pacific Railroad v. Missouri Pac.
R. Co., 3 Fed. 772.
If by the general rule a process server must not molest
a person who has not taken the court's property, but by
an exception to the rule may serve a person who has taken
the court's property-then that exception would not justify service on a defendant when the question of whether
he has 'taken the court's property is the very question
brought into litigation in that very suit. If the propriety
of the service on him depends on his character as a meddler with the court's property, that fact must be judicially
established, not in that suit, but by a prior adjudication.
Page v. Macdonald, 261 U. S. 446.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

If the validity of service could possibly be made to
depend upon the question whether or not Lamb was a
man who had meddled with property in the possession
of the court, then not only was that fact not proved,-it is
disproved by the record.
The evidence, introduced by the respondent on the
motion to quash the service of summons, shows that the
moneys received by the petitioner were payments for
counsel fees received in the ordinary course of business.
Messrs. Gerald FitzGeraldand Sam C. Cook, with whom
Ai1r. Garner TV. Green was on the brief, for respondent.

MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on certiorari to review a decree of the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 48 F. (2d) 533,
reversing an order of the District Court for Northern
Mississippi, which quashed service of process upon the
petitioner Lamb. The suit is a companion to Lamb v.
Cramer, decided this day, ante, p. 217, and, like it, is ancillary to the principal suit referred to in that case, which
was brought to set aside conveyances of land and dispositions of money and personal property as in fraud of judgment creditors.
The present suit was brought by the respondent here,
the receiver appointed by the decree in the first one.
It seeks the recovery of a part of the funds involved
in the first suit, paid, pendente lite, as fees to Lamb, who
acted as attorney of one of the defendants in that suit.
The petitioner, a resident of Illinois, was served with
process while he was in the Northern District of Mississippi in attendance on the court as an attorney in the
principal suit. The sole question presented is whether
the court below rightly held that the petitioner, in the
circumstances stated, was not immune from service of
process.

LAMB v. SCHMITT.
222

Opinion of the Court.

The general rule that witnesses, suitors, and their attorneys, while in attendance in connection with the conduct of one suit are immune from service of process in
another, is founded, not upon the convenience of the
individuals, but of the court itself. Page Co. v. MacDonald, 261 U. S. 446; Stewart v. Ramsay, 242 U. S.128,
130; Hale v. Wharton, 73 Fed. 739; Diamond v. Earle,
217 Mass. 499, 501; 105 N. E. 363; Parker v. Marco, 136
N. Y. 585; 32 N. E. 989. As commonly stated and applied, it proceeds upon the ground that the due administration of justice requires that a court shall not permit
interference with the progress of a cause pending before
it, by the service of process in other suits, which would
prevent, or the fear of which might tend to discourage,
the voluntary attendance of those whose presence is necessary or convenient to the judicial administration in the
pending litigation. See Bridges 'v. Sheldon, 7 Fed. 17,
43 et seq. In Stewart v. Ramsay, the court said (p. 130),
quoting from Parker v. Hotchkiss, Fed. Cas. 10,739:
"The privilege which is asserted here is the privilege
of the court, rather than of the defendant. It is founded
in the necessities of the judicial administration, which
would be often embarrassed, and sometimes interrupted,
if the suitor might be vexed with process while attending
upon the court for the protection of his rights, or the
witness while attending to testify."
It follows that the privilege should not be enlarged
beyond the reason upon which it is founded, and that it
should be extended or withheld only as judicial necessities require. See Brooks v. The State, 3 Boyce (Del.)
1; 79 Atl. 790; Netograph Co. v. Scrugham, 197 N. Y.
377; 90 N. E. 962; Nichols v. Horton, 14 Fed. 327; Iron
Dyke Copper Min. Co. v. Iron. Dyke R. Co., 132 Fed.
208. Limitations of it on this basis have been not infrequently made because the attendance upon the trial of a
137818°-32-15•

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

cause, however vital to the personal interests of those
concerned, was not for the purpose of facilitating the
progress of the cause (see Brooks v. State, supra; Vaughn
v. Boyd,. 142 Ga. 230; 82 S. E. 576; Sampson v. Graves,
208 App. Div. 522, 526; 203 N. Y. S. 729), or because the
service was made on one whose attendance was not voluntary, and hence had 'no tendency to interfere with
judicial administration. Netograph Co. v. Scrugham,
supra.
The question presented here is of a somewhat different
character: Whether, despite any effect of the immunity
in encouraging voluntary attendance at the trial, it
should be withheld from one who, while in attendance,
is served with process commanding his continued presence and aid to facilitate the pending litigation, and to
carry it to its final conclusion?
It has never been doubted that witnesses, parties, and
their counsel are amenable to the process or order of the
court for contempt of court, committed while in attendance upon the trial, or that any of them, while there, are
subject to the process and orders of the court to compel
the production of documents or their testimony in the
cause, Nor can it be doubted that the petitioner here,
notwithstanding his presence as an attorney and officer
of the court in the conduct of the principal cause, was not
immune from the service of process in a summary proceeding to compel restoration of the subject matter of
the suit wrongfully removed from the custody of the
court. See Lamb v. Cramer, supra. The deterrent effect, if any, upon attendance at the trial, of the possibility
that these pf'ocedures may be resorted to, is outweighed
by the fact that the immunity, if allowed, might paralyze
the arm of the court and defeat the ends of justice in the
very cause for the protection of which the immunity is
invoked.

LAMB v. SCHMITT.
222

Opinion of the Court.

These considerations have in special circumstances led
to a denial of the immunity, even though the service was
made in an independent suit in no sense ancillary to the
pending litigation. See Liven good v. Ball, 63 Okla. 93;
162 Pac. 768; Rizo v. Burruel, 23 Ariz. 137; 202 Pac. 234.
But it is not necessary to go so far in the present case.
Here the two suits, pending in the same court, are not
independent of each other or unrelated. The second was
brought in aid of the first, on which the petitioner, when
served with process, was in attendance, charged with the
duty of counsel in the case to assist the court. It was
brought to secure rights asserted in the first suit which,
but for the acts charged against the petitioner in the second, would have been secured in the first. Cf. Page Co.
v. MacDonald, supra. The later suit was so much a part
and continuation of the earlier one that the jurisdiction of
the court over the first extended to the second without
regard to citizenship of the parties or the satisfaction of
any other jurisdictional requirements. Pacific Railroad
of Missouriv. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 111 U. S. 505, 522.
From the viewpoint of the due administration of justice in the first suit, the second was as much a part of
it as if it had been an interlocutory motion to compel the
production in court of documents or of property involved
in the suit. The case is, therefore, not one where the
cause pending befor-ethe court is subjected to possible
hindrance or delay by service of process in some unrelated suit. The aid of the petitioner already in attendance upon the litigation, was demanded in order that the
relief prayed might be secured and the cause brought to
a final and successful termination. Neither that demand
nor compliance with it could prevent his attendance upon
the principal cause, as service of process in another court
might. Even if we make the assumption that the nonrecognition of such immunity might have discouraged

OCTOBER TERMI, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

petitioner's participation as counsel, still it would defeat,
not aid, the administration of justice in the principal
cause to encourage petitioner's voluntary presence by the
grant of an immunity which would relieve him from any
compulsion either to continue his presence or to answer
for his acts affecting the progress of the cause. Judicial
necessities require that such immunity should be withheld, and it was rightly denied by the court below.
It is said that the service of process in this case cannot
be deemed an exception to the general rule without assuning the truth of the allegations in the bill of coinplaint, and that the truth or falsity of the pleadings cannot be assumed. See Page v. MacDonald, supra, pp.
448-449. But the test of the privilege is not the probable success or failure of the suit or proceeding in which
the process was served. If it were, the immunity could
never be denied. The test is whether the immunity itself, if allowed, would so obstruct judicial administration
in the very cause for the protection of which it is invoked
as to justify withholding it. That, as we have said, depends here upon the nature of the proceeciing in which
the service is made and its relation to the principal suit,
both of which are disclosed by the pleadings.
Affirmed.
SHEARER v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 469.

Argued February 23, 24, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

The provisions of the Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 1200 (a), 1201 (a) (b)
for granting a 25 per cent. reduction of taxes imposed under the Act
Together with No. 470, Stewart v. Burnet, Commissioner of Inter-

nal Revenue.

