KOENIG v. FLYNN.

375

Argument for Petitioners.

355

large. That would be required, in the absence of a redistricting act, in order to afford the representation to which
the State is constitutionally entitled, and the general
provisions of the Act of 1911 cannot be regarded as
intended to have a different import.
This conclusion disposes of all the questions properly
before the Court. Questions in relation to the application
of the standards defined in section 3 of the Act of 1911 to
a redistricting statute, if such a statute should hereafter
be enacted, are wholly abstract. The judgment is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

KOENIG

ET AL.

V. FLYNN, SECRETARY OF STATE,
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 731.

Argued March 24, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

Decided upon the authority of Smiley v. Holm, ante, p. 355.
258 N. Y. 292; 179 N. E. 705, affirmed.

to review a judgment affirming the refusal of a writ of mandamus.
CERTIORARI*

Messrs. Abraham S. Gilbert and Benjamin L. Fairchild
for petitioners.
The word" legislature" in § 4 of Art. I means the same
representative body referred to in Art. II, § 1, of the Constitution. It must have the same meaning wherever used
in the Constitution.
* See table of cases reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioners.

285 U.S.

When the Constitution was under discussion and
adopted, the delegates knew that in Ma~sachusetts the
governor had a veto over all legislative activity and that
in New York a Council of Revision had a veto power; and
that in the remaining States the legislature, (a bicameral
body in every State except Pennsylvania), was supreme.
Hawke v. Smith, 253 U. S. at p. 227.
That care was used in the selection of terms is evident
from the language of Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, which, as to property owned by the State, requires state action, but as to
private property requires only the consent of the legislature.
Section 3 of Art. I confers upon the " legislature" the
power to choose Senators; § 4 the power to prescribe the
times, places and manner of electing Senators. In the
same sentence the "legislature" is given power to prescribe the times, places and manner of electing Representatives in Congress. The word could not have been used
in two different senses in the same sentence. It is inconceivable that the framers intended to exclude the Executive when they authorized the "legislature" to choose
Senators, and at the same time to include him when they
gave that same body power to determine the times, places
and manner of their election. Unless the Constitution
gave him a voice in those matters, how can it be said that
he was given any voice in fixing the time, place and
manner of electing Representatives?
The framers of the Constitution made use of the Congress, the Legislature, the Executive, the State, and did
not fail to refer to "appropriate legislation by the State."
The delegates would not have voted for a proposition to
give the executive of each State a veto over federal legislation. The proposal to give even the President a veto
was strenuously combated before final adoption.
In Hawke v. Smith, 253 U. S.221, this Court held that
the word "legislature" in Art. V, dealing with Amend-

KOENIG v. FLYNN.
375

Argument for Petitioiiers.

ments, refers to the bicameral body; in Davis v. Hildebrant, 241 U. S. 565, that the Act of August 8, 1911,
required the States to be re-districted according to state
laws rather than-'as in previous apportionment Acts-by
the state legislatures, and that the Act was valid under
§4, Art. I. The same fundamental question seems to have
been inherent in that as in the instant case, viz.: in the
absence of authorization by Congress, acting under Art.
I, § 4, may the discretion of a legislature in prescribing the
times, places and manner of holding elections for Representatives be circumscribed by those provisions of a. state
constitution which regulate enactment of the laws for
state governmental purposes. Unless this provision of §4
was intended to limit the state agency to the "legislature,"
it was surplusage.
If the framers intended that the State rather than the
legislature, should have the power conferred upon the
legislature by § 4 of Art. I, but that Congress should
always have the right by law to control the election of
.Senators and Representatives, except as to the places of
choosing Senators, the first phrase of clause 1 is entirely
unnecessary.
In all of the seventeen subdivisions of § 8, Art. I, conferring jurisdiction on Congress, not one unnecessary word
is used. It is impossible to believe that the first phrase
of the first clause of § 4 was inserted unnecessarily. Nor
is it conceivable that the word "legislature" would have
been used in § 4 of Art. I if the framers meant the
"State," or anything other than the bicameral body referred to in Art. V, and described by this Court in Hawke
v. Smith.
The power conferred on the "legislature" by the Federal Constitution may not be circumscribed by a State
constitution. If the constitution of a State may provide
that to re-district a State into congressional districts,
pursuant to § 4, Art. I, the legislature must do so by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Counsel for Parties.

285U.S.

bill approved by the governor or passed over his veto by
a two-thirds vote, it may require a four-fifths vote, or a
unanimous vote, or may provide that no apportionment
shall be valid uiiless approved by the governor. Some of
the best minds of the country in the legislative halls and
constitutional conventions have spoken against any such
power in the State. Election, West Virginia, Forty-third
Congress, I Hind's Prec., 653, 654; Massachusetts Constitutional Convention of 1820, per Story, J. (see Journal in
Cong. Library); per Webster, I Hind's Prec., 653; Election
case of Baldwin v. Trowbridge, 2 Bartlett Contested Election Cases 46, 38th Cong., Rep. No. 13; Schrader v. Polley,
26 S.D. 5; Shiel v. Thayer, 2 Bartlett 349, Cong. Globe,
1st Sess., 39th Cong., pp. 815-823; Sapp and Carpenter
Cases, H. Rep. No. 19, 3d Sess., 46th Cong., I Hind's
Prec., 672, I Ellsworth, p. 322; Davidson, v. Gilbert, 56th
Cong., I Hind's Prec., 180; Perkins v. Morrison, Rep. No.
3, 31st Cong., 2d Sess. See also Cong. Rec., vol. 47, 67th
Cong., 3436-7, 3507.
Resort to the doctrine of practical construction, if
proper at all in the case at bar, does not support the contention that "legislature " in § 4 of Art. I means State.
A practice that was wrong should be rejected, lWendell v.
Lavan, 246 N. Y. 115; People v. Tremaine, 252 N. Y. 27;
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 690;
Cooley, Const. Lim., 6th ed., p. 85.
The Act of August 8, 1911, c. 5, 37 Stat. 13, was limited
to the apportionment therein made and expired with the
apportionment under the Act of June 18, 1929.
Mr. Henry Epstein, First Assistant Attorney General of
New York, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney
General, was on the brief, for Flynn, Secretary of State,
respondent.
Messrs. John Godfrey Saxe, Robert F. Wagner, and
Joh J. O'Conmor were on the brief for Farley, respondent.

KOENIG v. FLYNN.
375

Opipion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The petitioners, 'citizens and voters' of the State,
sought a writ of mandamus to compel the Secretary of
State of New York, in issuing certificates for the election of
representatives in Congress, to certify that they are to be
elected in the congressional districts defined in the concurrent resolution of the Senate and Assembly of the
State, adopted April 10, 1931. The Secretary of State,
invoking the provisions of Article I, section 4, of the Constitution of the United States, and those of the Act of
Congress of August 8, 1911, c. 5, 37 Stat. 13, and also the
requirements of the constitution of the State in relation to
the enactment of laws, alleged that the concurrent resolution in question was ineffective, as it had not been submitted to the Governor for approval and had not been approved by him. The Court of Appeals of the State, construing the Federal constitutional provision as contemplating the exercise of the lawmaking power, sustained the respondent's defense and affirmed the decision of the lower
courts refusing the writ. 258 N. Y. 292; 179 N. E. 705.
This Court granted a. writ of certiorari.
The State of New York, under the reapportionment
pursuant to the Act of Congress of June 18, 1929, c. 28,
46 Stat. 21, 26, is entitled to forty-five representatives in
Congress in place of forty-three, the number allotted
under the previous apportionment. The Court of Appeals decided that, in the absence of a new districting
statute dividing the State into forty-five congressional
districts, forty-three representatives are to be elected in
the existing districts as defined by the state law, and the
two additional representatives by the State at large.
For the reasons stated in the opinion in Smiley v. Holm,
decided this day, ante, p. 355, the judgment is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed;:
MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

