OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285 U. S.

CARROLL v. BECKER, SECRETARY OF STATE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 805.

Argued March 24, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.

Decided upon the authority of Smiley v. Holm, ante, p. 355.
328 Mo. -; 45 S. W. (2d) 533, affirmed.

to review a judgment quashing an alternative writ of mandamus.
CERTIORARI*

Messrs. Edward F. Colladay and Hyman G. Stein for
petitioner.
Whatever the term "legislature" meant to the framers
of the Constitution when it was adopted it still means.
1 Cooley's Const. Lim., p. 123.
When the Constitution was agreed upon, eleven of the
original States had adopted constitutions in which the
word "legislature" or its equivalent was defined, but not
in any one of them was the Governor included as a part
of the legislature.
The framers must have intended to provide for the
uniform operation of the instrument among all of the
original States. The carrying out of such intention necessarily reqlfired that the word "legislature" should mean
the same in each State, and this required the exclusion
from that term of the Governor.
As Was pointed out in Hawke v. Smith, 253 U. S. 221,
a "legislature " at the time the Constitution was framed
was the representative body which made the laws of the
people, and the term is often used in the Constitution
with this evident meaning.
If the word "legislature" as used in Art. V does not
mean the law-making power, then we submit that it does
See table of cases reported in this volume.

CARROLL v. BECKER.
380

Opinion of the Court.

not mean the law-making power when it is used in Art I,
§ 4.
The Act of August 8, 1911, 37 Stat. 13, has expired by
its own limitations. The legislature, in re-districting the
State, acted exclusively under Art. I, § 4, of the Constitution.
The clause "by the method used in the last preceding
apportionment," in the 1929 Act, related only to the
arithmetical method of computation. The Act of 1911,
has been repealed by the repealing clause (§ 21) of the
Act of 1929.
Mr. Ray Weightman, Assistant Attorney General of
Missouri, with whom Messrs. Stratton Shartel, Attorney
General, and L. Cunningham were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The State of Missouri, under the reapportionment of
representatives in Congress (Act of June 18, 1929, c. 28,
46 Stat. 21, 26) is entitled to thirteen representatives in
place of sixteen as theretofore. The petitioner brought
this proceeding to obtain a writ of mandamus to compel
the Secretary of State of Missouri to file a declaration
of the petitioner's candidacy for the office of representative in Congress in one of the congressional districts alleged to have been created by a bill passed .by the House
of Representatives and the Senate of Missouri in April
1931. An alternative writ was issued, and respondent,
Secretary of State, alleged in his return that the bill in
question had been vetoed by the Governor and hence
had not become a valid law of the State. The Supreme
Court of the State, in the view that Article I, section 4,
of the Federal Constitution, provided for the enactment

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

of laws, upheld the action of the Secretary of State and
quashed the alternative writ. The court also decided
that "since the number of representatives for Missouri
.has been reduced the former districts no longer exist and
representatives must be elected at large." 45 S.W. (2d)

533. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
The questions are substantially the same as those which
were presented in Smiley v. Holm, decided this day, ante,

p. '355, and the judgment is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

CRDOZO

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
QLAIBORNE-ANNAPOLIS FERRY CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 454. Argued February 18, 1932.-Decided April 11, 1932.
1. Paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 of § 1 of the Ihterstate Commerce Act,
respecting extension and new construction of railroads, are restricted
to.carriers engaged in transporting persons or property ininterstate
and foreign commerce'and were intended to affect intrastate "commerce only as that may be incidental to the effective regulation of
interstate commerce. P. 390.
2. A company operating a ferry within a State under a state charter
held, capable, as a "party in interest," of instituting suit for the
purpose of annulling an order and certificate of the Interstate
Commerce Commission whereby permission was grant'ed a railway
,company to extend its line by a ferry over the same waters, and
'for the purpose of enjoining the railway from constructing and
.pperating such proposed ferry, it appearing from the bill that
such action might directly and adversely affect the welfare of the
plaintiff by changing the transportation situation. Id.
3. A suit of this kind is to be tried by the specially constituted
District Court, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22,
1913; 28 U. S. C., § 47. Id.

