480

OCTOBER TERM, 1931..
Syllabus.

285 U.S.

his stock, we cannot say that he was not personally liable
for his pro rata share of any impairment of the bank's
capital assessed against him while he remained a stock-.
holder, whether his stock was sold under § 9248-a (1), or
not, or that the later statute,- which provided a remedy
for enforcing such liability, infringed his constitutional
rights.
Affirmed.
PACIFIC CO., LTD. v. JOHNSON, STATE
TREASURER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 270.

Argued January 8, 1932. Reargued March 17, 1932.-Decided April 11, .1932.

A California corporation acquired municipal bonds at a time when,
by- the state constitution, they were declared to be "free and
exempt from taxation." Subsequently, pursuant to a change in
the constitution, a statute subjected the corporation to a tax on
the privilege of doing business in the State, measured by a specified
percentage of its net income, in the computation of which the
statute directed the inclusion of " all interest received from federal,
state, municipal or other bonds." Held (assuming that the exemption was contractual and extended to the income derived from
the bonds exempted):
1. That the tax immunity granted was not broad enough to
secure freedom from taxation of the corporate franchise measured
by the tax-exempt income, and therefore the obligation of the bond
contracts was not impaired by. the tax. Pp. 489-491.
2. In the absence of applicable state decisions antedating the
alleged impairment of contract, the extent of the tax exemption
is to be decided by the aid of generally accepted principles of
construction. P. 489.
3. Until the adoption of the constitutional amendment in 1928
(§ 16, Arft XIII), and of the Bank and Corporation Franchise
Tax Act (Cal. Stats., 1929, c. 13, p. 19), there was no provision
in California for taxing corporate franchises by the method here
in question; and, until this case, no decision of any court of the

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
Argument for Appellant.

480

State had determined whether the granted immunity extends to a
tax on corporate franchises because tax-free income or property
is included in its measure. P. 489.
4. On the other hand, long before adoption of the constitutional
tax exemption, the distinction was well-recognized between a tax
on the privilege of exercising the corporate franchise and a tax on
corporate property or income, even though the former. was measured by the latter; and tax immunity of the property or income
was not deemed to extend to the franchise. P. 489.
5. Grants of immunity from taxation are strictly construed.
P. 491.
6. In as much as the tax exemption, as granted, did not extend
to immunity from inclusion of the interest in the measure of a corporate franchise tax, and in as much as the State had power to
use that measure in taxing the franchise, the fact that the legislature saw fit to include the interest on such bonds by express mention when its inclusion would otherwise have been implied in the
general term net income, does not invalidate the tax, no discrimination being involved. Pp. 491-495.
212 Cal. 148; 298 Pac. 489, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of the
complaint in a suit by the appellant corporation to recover
from the State Treasurer the part of a franchise tax which
resulted from including its income from tax-free anunicipal bonds in the measure of its franchise tax.
Mr. Stuart Chevalier, with whom Mllessrs. Melvin D.
Wilson, Joseph D. Peeler, Donald 0. Hunter, and Robert
N. Miller were on the brief, for appellant.
When the State of California induced citizens to purchase the bonds of its political subdivisions by constitutionally exempting such bonds from taxation, and then,
after the bonds were sold, changed its constitution and its
tax system for the purpose of subjecting to tax the very
property which it had held out as non-taxable, it did the
very thing which the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution, was intended to stop. For a clear view of the
history of the legislation and statement of the principles
137818'-32-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellant.

285 U.S.

involved see diss. op. of Langdon, J., in court below. In
Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, the facts
were in all material respects identical with those in this
case. It appears to be the only decision of this Court
involving squarely the validity of a state tax "measured
by," the income from the State's own tax-exempt bonds,
where from the legislative history of the Act and from
the language of the Act itself it is clear that "(he avowed
purpose and self-evident operation of the statute is to
reach such income," and that the legislature is deliberately
"aiming" thereat.
Can it be fairly said that the inclusion of such income
was merely fortuitous and incidental to the main purpose
of the law? Cf. remarks of Cardozo, J., in People v.
Knapp, 230 N. Y. 48, 57.
The.fact that the State was seeking to comply with the
federal statute furnishes no defense.
Section 5219, R. S., attempts to give authority to the
State to tax only national banks, according to or measured
by their "net income received from all sources." Even
if Congress has succeeded by this Act in authorizing the
States to tax such banks on income from United States
bonds, a question still left open (see 279 U. S. at p. 633),
certainly Congress has not attempted to nor can authorize
the States to tax otherwise exempt state bonds.
While there are, strictly speaking, certain differences
between the Massachusetts and California situations, the
differences are of a nature either too trivial to warrant
grounding a distinction, or of such a nature that they
make out a still stronger case here for the application of
the rule recognized in the Macallen case than did the
Massachusetts statute. Thus, in California, the inclusion
of interest from tax-exempt securities is permitted by an
entirely new scheme of taxation, instead of inferentially
through amendment of an existing statutory plan by re-

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Argument for Appellant.

moving a specific exemption. Again, the California stata manute includes interest from tax-exempt securities -in
ner different from that employed by Massachusetts, but
one which makes the intent to reach such income more
obvious from the face of the statute than was true of the
Macallen tax.
Under the Macallen case, the Court is not restricted to
the face, of the statute in finding the legislative motive,
but may consider the history of the legislation and its
environment.
We are dealing with an explicit constitutional prohibition against the impairment of the obligation of contracts, and not with an implied constitutional inhibition
as to relative sovereignties, and not, therefore, with a mere
burden on impliedly exempt subjects where the- validity
of the tax may, to some extent, depend upon the degree
or the weight of the burden. Certainly, the contract is
either impaired or it is not. Cf. Gillespie v. Oklahoma,
257 U. S. 501, making_a distinction as between burdens
on interstate commerce where the degree of the burden
may be considered, and on federal instrumentalities. As
said in People v. Bond, 10 Cal. 563, 571, "The question
is not whether by legislative alteration of a contract a
partyisto be injured seriously or slightly; he has a right
to the substance of the contract as he has made it." "The
objection to a law, on the ground of its impairing -the obligation of a contract, can never depend upon the extent
of the change which the law effects in it. Any deviation
from its terms . . .impairs its obligation." Green v.
Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 84.
But the burden is not in fact slight in this case. It is
very substantial. More than one-half of appellant's tax is
based upon the income from these exempt securities and
the Report of the California Tax Commission shows that
it was expected that " substantial revenue" would be
raised from this very source.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellee.

285 U.S.

The State has attempted to tax bonds which, by its
constitution, it had declared to be non-taxable and which
it had sold to the public under a solemn assurance that
no taxes would be imposed thereon. It was to prevent
just such an act by a State that the prohibition was embodied in our Federal Constitution.
We can not believe that a State may be permitted thus
to repudiate or impair its contracts by the device of a
so-called " franchise" tax and thereby to reduce the value
of its obligations in the hands of innocent holders. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311, 318; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat.
1, 17.
Other leading decisions of this Court plainly show that
appellant is entitled to prevail in this suit. Educational
Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379, 393; Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713; Northwestern Mut. Life Ins. Co.
v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257
U. S. 501; Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503; Choctaw & Gulf
R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U. S. 292; Galveston, II. & S. A.
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Cook v. Pennsylvania,
97 U. S. 566; Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Indian
Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522; Federal Land Bank
v. Croslanj 261 U. S. 374; Fairbank v. United States, 181
U. S. 283; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,
268 U.'S. 203; Frick v.-Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473; National Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508;
Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Owensboro Nat.
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664.
Messrs. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of
California, and U. S. Webb, Attorney General, with whom
Mr. Frank L. Guerena was on the brief, for appellee.
Income from bonds immune from property taxes is but
incidentally related to the amount of the franchise tax,
which is not levied necessarily upon every dollar of

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Argument for Appellee.

interest that a taxpayer receives from such bonds. It is
conceivable that conditions might exist whereby the
amount of the franchise tax would not be increased by the
receipt of income from such bonds. The amount of the
tax, manifestly, does not vary in exact proportion to the
gross income from the bonds included in the aggregate.
A corporation franchise tax measured by a percentage
of net income is not a property tax. Flint v. Stone-Tracy
Co., 220 U. S.107; Maine v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 142 U.
S. 217; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texa, 210 U. S.
217, 226; Bass Co. v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S. 271;
New York v. Jersawit, 263 U. S. 493, 496; Educational
Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S. 379; McCoach v. Mineville Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 295, 387; Stratton's Independence
v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 416; Interboro Transit Co. v.
Sohmer, 237 U. S. 276, 284; Equitable Life Society v.
Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143, 147; Anderson v. 42 Broadway Co., 239 U. S. 69, 72; Fidelity & Colonial Tr. Co.
v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54, 59; Doyle v. Mitchell Co., 247
U. S. 179, 182; Ray Copper Co. v. United States, 268 U.
S. 373, 376; Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620.
A corporation franchise tax measured by dividends or
bank deposits, or corporate excess, is not a property tax.
Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611; Hamilton Co. v.
Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; Home Insurance Co. v. New
York, 134 U. S. 594.
State inheritance taxes are valid excises although
measured by the value of nontaxables. Plummer v. Coler,
178 U. S. 115; Greiner v. Llewelyn, 258 U. S. 384; Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S.1, 1.2.
A corporation franchise tax measured by capital stock
reflecting the value of nontaxables is not a property tax.
Hump Hair Pin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S.290; People
v. Latrobe, 279 U. S. 421; International Shoe Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Appellee.

285 U.S.

Shartel, 279 U. S. 429; Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 271 U. S. 50; Kansas City v. Bothin, 240 U. S. 227;
Western CartridgeCo. v. Emmerson, 281 U. S. 511.
A corporation franchise tax measured in part by net
'income from interstate commerce is not a property tax.
Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S.
113; Bass Co. v. Tax Commission, 266 U. S. 271; Alpha
Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203, 216; National Leather Co. v. Massachusetts, 277 U. S. 413.
A state tax on the operative property of public utilities
fixed at a percentage of gross income from all sources, including nontaxables, is a valid property tax. San Diego
Ry. Co. v. State Board, 165 Cal. 516; Lake Tahoe fly.
Co. v. Roberts, 168 Cal: 551; San Bernardino County v.
State Board, 172 Cal. 76; Southern Pacific Co. v. Richardson, 181 Cal. 280; Southern Pacific Co. v. Levee District,
172 Cal. 354; Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 185 Cal. 484;
San Francisco v. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., 166 Cal. 244;
Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. Roberts, 168 Cal. 420; s. c.,
176 id. 183; Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330;
U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Cudahy Co.
v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; Great' Northern Ry. Co. v.
Minnesota, 278 U. S. 503; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Collins, 294 Fed. 742; Western Union v. Massachusetts,
125 U. S. 530; i41 id. 40; Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S.
509.
A state property tax on corporate excess, partly located
outside the taxing state and employed in interstate commerce, is valid. Miller & Lux v. Richardson, 182 Cal. 115;
People v. Alaska Pacific S. S. Co., 182 Cal. 202; Pacific
Coast S. S. Co. v. Richardson, 186 Cal. 70; Utah Construction Co. v. Richardson, 187 Cal. 649; People v. Ford
Motor Co., 188 Cal. 8; Schwab v. Richardson, 188 Cal. 27.
State ad valorem taxes on national bank shares are legal
though the value of tax-exempts is included in the assessment. Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573 (cited ap-

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Opinion of the Court.

provingly in EducationalFilms Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S.
379); Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503;
Des Moines Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103, 114.
A state tax on income may properly include in the computation the net income derived from transactions in interstate commerce. U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U.
S. 321, 328; Peck v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165.
A state property tax on insurance companies fixed at a
percentage of their gross premiums, with no deductions;
is valid. Hartford v. Jordan, 168 Cal. 270; Hughes v.
Los Angeles, 168 Cal. 764; Northwestern Mutual Co. v.
Roberts, 177 Cal. 540; Bankers Life Co. v. Richardson,
192 Cal. 113.
Section 13, Art. XIII, Calif. Const. is an exemption
from property taxes only.
Exemptions from taxation are construed strictly. The
exact and express requirements of the language used, construed strictissimijuris, must be the limit of construction;
no presumption in favor of grants of exclusive franchise
or immunity from government control is indulged; the
presumption is against the intent to grant; privilege can
not arise from mere implication or inference; and doubts
are resolved against claims of privilege.
. Assuming an exemption, it was withdrawn by subsequent changes in the California Constitution.
A state has the right to change its tax and other policies. Thornton v. Duffy, 254 U. S. 361, 369; Ochiltree v.
Iowa Ry. Co., 21 Wall. 249, 253.
Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 280 U. S. 513, is not
controlling. Cf. Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282
U. S. 379. The relation of interest from tax-exempts to
the franchise tax is indeed " fortuitous and incidental"
in the history and in the structure of that enactment.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on appeal, Jud. Code § 237, from a
judgment of the Supreme Court of California, denying

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

recovery of a tax paid by appellant, a California corpo,ration, for the privilege of doing business within the state,
and exacted under a statute' alleged to be in contravention of the contract clause, Art. I, § 10, of the Federal
Constitution. 212 Cal. 148. The annual tax is, for domestic corporations, a specified percentage of the net
income of the corporation for the next preceding fiscal
or calendar year. By § 7 of the statute, net income
is defined as "gross income" less certain allowed deductions, and § 6 proyides that "'gross income . . . includes .
all interest received from federal, state,
municipal or other bonds..." Section 13/4 of Art.
XIII of the Constitution of California, adopted in 1902,
,provides that bonds issued by political subdivisions of the
State and its municipalities" shall be free and exempt
from taxation."
The State Franchise Tax Commissioner, in assessing
,appellant's franchise tax for the year 1928, included in, its
gross income interest derived from improve ment district
bonds, issued after the adoption of the quoted exemption
provision of the Constitution, but before the constitutional amendment and the statute authorizing the tax.
The present suit was brought to recover so much of the
tax as results from the inclusion in the. computation, of
the interest received from the tax-exempt bonds.'- Appellant insists that, under the exemption clause of the State
Constitution, it 'acquired a contractual immunity from
state taxation of the bonds or their income, and that the
later statute, by authorizing the inclusion of the bond
interest in the measure of the tax, in effect taxed the
income and thus impaired the obligation of the contract.
' The California Rink and Corporation Franchise Tax Act, Cal. Stat.
1929, C.18, p. 19, enacted pursuant to an amendment of the California Constitution, § 16, Art. XIII, adopted November 6, 1928, which
authorized atax on corporate franchises.

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Opinion of the Court.

If, as appellant argues, the exemption from taxation
of the bonds is contractual and extends to the income derived from them, the question still remains whether the
immunity is broad enough to secure freedom from taxation of a corporate franchise, to the extent that it is
measured by tax-exempt income. This Court, in answering that question, will, in the absence of applicable state
decisions antedating the alleged impairment, be guided
by generally accepted principles of construction which
have been recognized and acted upon by this Court.
Until the article of the Constitution adopted in 1928,
and the statute of 1929, there were no provisions in the
Constitution and laws of California for taxing corporate
franchises by the present method, and until this case no
decision by any court of the state had determined whether
the granted immunity extends ,to a tax upon corporate
franchises because tax-free property or income is included
in its measure. Long before the adoption of the constitutional exemption, there was a well-recognized distinction between a tax on the privilege of exercising the corporate franchise and a tax on corporate property or income, even though the former was measured by the latter, and tax immunity of the property or income was
not deemed to extend to the franchise.
The power of a state to levy a franchise tax measured
by net property or income including tax-exempt bonds
of the United States or their income was upheld by this
Court in Society for Savings v. Coite (1868), 6 Wall. 504;
Provident Institution v. Massachusetts (1868), 6 Wall.
611; Home Insuraice Co. v. New York (1890), 134 U. S.
594. State laws taxing shareholders of national banks on
the full net value of their shares, although the banks own
tax-exempt federal securities, have also been consistently
upheld. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; Peoples
National Bank v. Board of Equalization, 260 U. S. 702;
Des Moines National Bank v, Fairweather,263 U. S. 103.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

Similarly Congress may impose a tax on state banks measured by the average amount of their deposits, although
deposits of state funds by state officers are included.
Manhattan Co. v. Blake, 148 U. S. 412. The rule that a
tax upon a franchise, measured by net income, including
that from tax-immune property, is not an infringement
of the immunity, was re-examined and affirmed in Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, which was accepted
as authority in Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S.
620, and followed in Educational Films Corp. v.. Ward,
282 U. S. 379.
This distinction, so often and consistently reaffirmed,
is but a recognition that the franchise, the privilege of
doing business in corporate form, which is a legitimate
subject of taxation, does not cease to be such because it
is exercised in the acquisition and enjoyment of nontaxables. The distinction is one of substance, not of
form, and has been so recently discussed in Educational
Films Corp. v. Ward that it need not be elaborated here.
It suffices to say that the tax immunity extended to
property qua property does not embrace a special privilege, the corporate franchise, otherwise taxable, merely
because the value of the corporate property or net income is included in an equable measure of the enjoyment
of the privilege. The owner may enjoy his exempt property free of tax, but if he asks and receives from the state
the benefit of a taxable privilege as the implement of
that enjoyment, he must bear the burden of the tax
which the state exacts as its price.
Appellant lays no foundation for the assertion that
the state court erroneously construed the grant of immunity as limited to taxes imposed on the bonds and
their interest, and as not embracing taxes on the franchise measured by the net income of the taxpayer without discrimination as to its source. We cannot say that
this. construction, with which no judicial decision of the

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Opinion of the Court.

state conflicts, and which is supported by an unbroken
line of decisions of this Court, some of them antedating.
the grant, is erroneous or that the later enactment of
the challenged statute, in all respects consistent with it,
impairs any contractual right which could be implied
from the grant. Even if the construction were doubtful, the doubt, upon familiar principles, must be resolved
in favor of the state. Grants of immunity from taxation, in derogation of a sovereign power of the state, are
strictly construed. Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet.
514, 561; Delaware Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206,
225-226; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black 436,
447; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420;
Yazoo & Mi;3sissiT5pi Valley R. Co. v. Thomas, 132 U. S.
174; Vicksburg, S. & P. R. Co. v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665.
But appellant insists that even though the granted exemption is not broad enough to preclude, in every instance, the inclision of tax-exempt income in the measure of the tax, its inclusion by the present statute is not
a casual incident to a scheme of taxation of franchises
measured by all net income, such as was upheld in Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, but is the result of a fully disclosed legislative purpose to subject to taxation the income of non-taxables, such as was deemed to invalidate
the tax in Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713, and in
Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts,supra. In support of this
contention, appellant points to the language of the taxing act, specifically including the income from tax-exempt
bonds in themeasure of the tax, and to its legislative
history.
The California Constitution was amended and the legislation taxing corporate franchises was enacted shortly
after the decisions of this Court in First National Bank v.
Hartford, 273 U. S.548, and Minnesota v. First National
Bank, 273 U. S.561, which held that the requirement of
R. S. § 5219, of an approximate equality of state taxation

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

of national banks and of moneyed capital competing with
them, comprehends the taxation not only of moneyed
capital employed by state and private banks, but also that
of other corporations in substantial competition with national banks. The State of California had previously imposed a tax on shareholders in banks, based on their
proportionate share of the undivided profits, capital and
surplus. Corporations other than banks, public utility,
and insurance companies were taxed on the basis of their
"corporate excess," in the computation of which nontaxable bonds were not included. In 1927 the California
legislature created a commission to prepare a scheme of
taxation which would secure the requisite equality. To
attain this end the report of the Commission of August 10,
1928, (included in the final report of California Tax Commission of March 5, 1929, State Printing Office, Publication No. 63725, at p. 243, et seq.) recommended the adoption of the present corporate franchise tax as conforming
to subdivision 4 of R. S. 5219, which permits the state
taxation of national banks "according to or measured by
their net income." In the course of the report, specific
reference is made to the belief of the Commission that in
the comiputation 'ofsuch a tax the income of non-taxable
federal bonds might be included in the measure of the
tax, and it sufficiently appears from the report that the
Commission was not unaware that income from bonds of
the state would likewise be included by the proposed legislation and, indeed, that the desired equality of taxation
of local corporations with that on national banks, measured by income, could not otherwise be secured. The
adoption of the taxing act, as recommended by the Commission, may therefore be taken, as appellant contends, to
evidence a definite and specific legislative purpose to levy
a new type of franchise tax, measured by corporate net
income, including the tax-exempt income from federal
and state bonds.

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Opinion of the Court.

The view that a tax, although levied on a taxable subject, may be deemed invalid because purposely devised to
include a non-taxable subject in its measure, receives only
a limited and qualified support from Miller v. Milwaukee,
supra. There a state statute taxing corporate dividends
was framed in such manner as to tax them only so far as
they were derived from corporate income from tax-exempt bonds of the United States. The taxing act thus,
on its face, did more than exhibit an intention of the one
sovereignty to include in the dividends taxed, those derived from*income from a non-taxable instrumentality .of
the other, together with income from all other. sources.
That admittedly would have been permissible; see Des
Moines National Bank v. Fairweather, supra; Flint v.
,Stone Tracy Co., supra; EducationalFilms Corp. v. Ward,
supra. But it was the exclusion from the measure of
the tax of all income except from federal bonds which
rendered the tax invalid.
Thus, in our dual system of government, action of the
one government in the proper exercise of its sovereign
powers, regarded as innocuous and permissible notwithstanding its incidental effects on the other, may become
offensive and be deemed forbidden if it discrimiriates
against the other. State taxes which, if non-discriminatory, would be upheld',even though they reach or affect
those engaged in interstate commerce, are condemned if
they discriminate against those so engaged, by placing on
them heavier burdens than those imposed on others within
the state. Welton V. Missouri, 91 U. S.275, with which
compare Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95; Darnell &
Son Co. v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113; Bethlehem Motors
Corp. v. Flynt, 256 U. S.421. Cf. Reymann Brewing Co.
v. Brister, 179 U. S.445. See General American Tank Car
Corp. v. Day, 270 U. S.367, 372.
But the present case is not,one of discrimination. There
is no attempt, as in Miller v. Milwaukee, supra, to meas-

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
285 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ure the tax by exempt income while excluding from
the measure all taxable income. The state seeks to do
only what its contract permits it to do, to measure the
franchise tax by all the net income of the taxpayer. If
the words "net income" in the taxing statute may rightly
be taken to include income from tax-exempt bonds, as
they were in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., supra, then there
can be no tenable ground for saying that the addition of
the words "income

. .

. includes

.

. .

all interest re-

ceived from federal, state, municipal or other bonds,"
discloses any different purpose on the part of the legislature, or can have any different effect, or can more definitely
infringe the exemption than did the tax upheld in Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., supra, or that in Educational Films
Corp. v. Ward, supra.
But it is said that the ruling of this Court in Macallen
Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, requires the condemnation
of the present tax. There the Commonwealth, which had
long imposed a tax on corporate franchises measured by
taxable income of the corporation, amended its statutes
so as to add the income from tax-exempt bonds of the federal government to the measure of the tax. It was held
that this change of taxation policy, embodied in the statute and "adopted as though it had been so declared in
precise words for the very purpose of subjecting these
securities pro tanto to the burden of the tax," was invalid. Thus the legislative abandonment of a policy
which had previously discriminated in favor of tax-exempt
securities was treated as a discrimination against them,
and the tax, although in fact non-discriminatory, was condemned as analogous to the discriminatory tax held invalid in the Miller case. See Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, pp. 630, 631.
But the State of California, in its legislation, has indulged in no reversal of policy so far as the measure-

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

Opinion of the Court.

ment of the franchise tax is concerned and in no discrinination either in favor of or against tax-exempt income.
The entire history of its legislation discloses only that
it has sought, in good faith, to. conform its scheme of taxation of corporations to a permitted method of taxing national banks, to avoid discrimination against the latter.
It has effected its purpose by adopting, in a single legislative act, a new form of privilege tax on corporations
measured by their net income, without any form of discrimination as to the sources of the income included in
the measure, differing in this respect in no material way
from the similar tax upheld in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co.
and in Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, supra. We
should hesitate to say that any action of the legislature or
any purpose disclosed by a state commission could restrict
the power of the state by constitutional amendment to
authorize a tax which admittedly it could have authorized without them. In any case, the use of words in the
statute and report, indicating what would otherwise have
been implied, that "income" includes income from taxexempt bonds, could neither enlarge the exemption nor
diminish the constitutional power of the state.
But we do not rest our decision upon any narrow distinction as to the precise form of words which may be
employed in taxing statutes or the particular order in
which its provisions are incorporated in the statute,
whether by a single legislative act or by amendment or
the addition of new provisions in successive reenactments.
A taxing statute, like others, must be read as a whole, as
it stands on the statute books at its applicable dte, and
the legislative purpose in enacting it must be taken, regardless of forms of words, to envisage the obvious consequences which flow from its operation. Since the mere
intent of the legislature to do that which the Constitution
permits cannot deprive legislation of its constitutional

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

validity, and the purposeful choice by the state of a
method of taxation which appellant's contract allows, cannot alter the terms of the contract, the present act must
be judged by its operation rather than by the motives
which inspired it. As it operates to measure the tax on
the corporate franchise by the entire net income of the
corporation, without any discrimination between income
which is exempt and that which is not, there is'no.
infringement of any constitutional immunity.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, dissenting:
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

and

I are unable to agree with the opinion and judgment just
announced:
In Miller v. Milwauee, 272 U. S. 713, speaking through
Mr. Justice Holmes, this Court said [p. 715]:
"If the avowed purpose or self-evident operation of a
statute is to follow the bonds of the United States and to
make up for its inability to reach them directly by indirectly achieving the same 'result, the statute must fail
even if but for its purpose or special operation it would be
perfectly good. Under the laws of Wisconsin the income
from the United States bonds may not be the only item
exempted from the income tax on corporations, but it. certainly is .the most conspicuous instance of exemption at
the present time. .A result intelligently foreseen and offering the most obvious motive for an act that will bring
it about, fairly may be taken to have been a purpose of
the act. On that assumption the immunity of the national bonds is too important to allow any narrowing
beyond what the Acts of Congress pernit. We think it
would be going too far to say that they allow an intentional interference that is only prevented from being direct
by the artificial distinction between a corporation and its
members. A tax very well may be upheld as against any

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

casual effect it may have upon the bonds of the United
States when passed with a different intent and not aimed
at them, but it becomes a more serious attack upon their
immunity when they are its obvious aim. In such a case
the Court must consider the public welfare rather than
the artifices contrived for private convenience and must
look at the facts."
In Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, the
principle thus announced was applied to an act imposing
a corporate excise tax affecting the state's municipal securities in the same way as the California act affects the
bonds here under consideration. These municipal securities were issued and acquired prior to the passage of the
act, and when so issued and acquired were exempt from all
forms of taxation by the express terms of a state statute.
The situation in thatrespect is the same here. except that
the exemption fron taxation was made by the state Constitution instead of by statute. There, as here, the constitutionality of the act was challenged under the federal
Constitution as impairing the obligation of contracts. We
sustained the challenge, and pointed out that while a state
was at liberty to impose a franchise tax upon a corporation with respect to the doing of its business, it could not
tax the income of the corporation derived from nontaxable securities. We held that the effect of the taxing act
was to repeal the prior statute and impose a burden upon
the securities from which, by express provision of law, they
had theretofore been free. In confirination of this conclusion the report of a special commission appointed by
the legislature to investigate the subject of taxation of
banking institutions was cited and quoted. That report
recommended the adoption of legislation which, by means
of an excise upon the doing of business, would reach income from securities then exempt from taxation, either
under federal or state law. The report received the con137818S-32-

-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

285

U.S.

sideration of the legislature, and, we thought it fair to
suppose, constituted the basis for adopting the challenged
act. We said (p. 633):
"The effect of the report is that non-taxable bonds
nevertheless should be subjected to the burden of the tax;
and, since that could not be imposed directly, the clear
intimation is that it be imposed, indirectly through the
medium of the so-called 'excise'."
We therefore concluded that the act manifested a change
of policy adopted with the aim and for the purpose of subjecting the tax-exempt securities, pro tanto, to the burden
of the tax, and, therefore, impaired "the obligation of the
statutory contract of the state by which such bonds were
made exempt from state taxation."
In the present case the aim and purpose of the California legislature to reach the same illegal result by
indirection is no less clear. Here, as in Massachusetts,
the State Tax Commission investigated the subject and
made a special report to the Governor for submission to
the legislature. In the course of the report the commission expressed the opinion that the only practicable
method of securing a substantial revenue from the banks
was to tax them " according to or measured by net income." This was designated its "fourth method." As
distinguished from the "third method" suggested, the
commission said that such a tax "is designed to include
within the scope of its application certain types of income
which may not legally be reached by a pure net income
tax--such as interest on tax-exempt government
bonds .... The third method may be discarded in favor
of the fourth, because under the fourth everything can be
accomplished which may be gained by proceeding under
the third, and presumably more besides, viz., the inclusion,
if desired, of tax-exempt interest in the base."
Later in its report, under the heading " Importance of
Including Tax-exempt Interest in Base," the commission,

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

after calling attention to the Macallen case, then pending
but not decided, said:
"In the case of corporations other than banks, the point
is not of vital importance. But the banks hold such large
quantities of these tax-exempt bonds that the effect of a
decision holding that the state may not include them in
the base would be very serious indeed."
There is more in the report to like effect.
In January, 1929, the two houses of the state legislature
gave public hearings on the subject. Among others, Professor Haig of Columbia University, who had served as
technical advisor to the commission, appeared and made a
statement, in the course of which, in explanation of bills
then pending, he said:
"Now, as to the definition of net income. You will find
this material presented in section 6 and following. In the
first place, the definition of income is broad, in one respect,
in that it does attempt to include within the scope of the
base used as the measure of the tax incomc received from
tax-exempt securities-thatis, government bonds and so
on. . . . Interest from tax-exempt bonds is an exceedingly
important item in a tax which is applied to banks. The
definition is br(ad, in that it does include this tax-exempt
interest in the base which is used as a measure of the value
of the franchise.'"
The act here in question, which resulted from, and
evidently was based upon, the report of the Commission
and the statements of its advisor, provides in express
terms:
"See. 6. The term 'gross income,' as herein used, includes . . . all interest received from federal, state,
municipal or other bonds, . . .
"Sec. 7. The term 'net income,' as herein used, means
the gross income less the deductions allowed." (No deduction, however, is allowed for interest received from
federal, state, municipal or other tax-exempt bonds.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

The foregoing is so plain that comment or elucidation
would seem unnecessary. The bare recital of the facts,
in our opinion, shows how unreasonable it is to hold that
the aim and purpose of the legislation was not, by indirection, to impose a tax upon income derived from
tax-exempt securities which, constitutionally, could not
be imposed directly. To say that the effect of the tax
upon the tax-exempt bonds is "casual" and not its "obvious aim," (Miller v. Milwaukee, supra), is simply to
presume upon our credulity. We think there is no escape
from the conclusion that if the Miller and Macallen cases
were followed the legislation here under review would
be condemned. To base a distinction of these. cases from
the pending case upon differences so lacking in substance as to be in effect no differences at all, simply adds
to the confusion already too great in this field of taxation.
The California franchise tax, in its application to the
bonds here under consideration, is peculiarly indefensible.
When these bonds were issued and acquired they were,
by express constitutional provision, made "free and
exempt from taxation." Upon the faith of that provision the bonds were bought. The fact that they were
to be free from taxation must have resulted in the receipt
of a larger price than otherwise would have been the case.
The difference between the sum paid and what would
have been paid but for the exemption was, in a very real
sense, money taken from the purchaser in exchange for
the tax immunity-as though future taxes had been anticipated by an immediate payment of the amount, computed on the basis of their present worth. By every principle of fair construction, the purchaser having paid for
this immunity became entitled to hold the bonds and income therefrom free from any future taxation, the burden of which, however disguised, would fall, and was
meant to fall, upon them. Otherwise the contractual ob-

PACIFIC CO. v. JOHNSON.
480

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

ligation is a mere sham, signifying nothing, It is not denied, as we understand, that if the state had laid the tax
directly upon the income derived from the bonds an unconstitutional impairment of, the obligation would have.
resulted. And, in this respect, it is hard to see any substantial difference between a tax laid directly upon the
income and one laid upon a privilege but measured by,
and definitely intended to reach, such income. Undoubtedly, a state has the power to impose a franchise
tax for the privilege of doing business as a corporation
within the state and also to measure that tax by the
amount of income received; but in every case where this
court has sustained the validity of such a tax, when measured in part by non-taxable income, it has done so upon
the view, implicit or express, that the latter in fact and
reality was not the subject sought to be taxed, and that
any burden thereby put upon it was casual and incidental.
A tax in form laid upon A but measured by B at once
suggests that B was in reality the thing aimed at; and if
inquiry discloses, as it does here, that such is the fact,
the tax, assuming B to be non-taxable, should not be allowed to stand in the face of the settled principle that
what cannot be done directly because of constitutional
restriction cannot be done indirectly by legislation designed to reach the same end. Fairbankv. United States,
181 U. S. 283, 294, 300.
It is important for the states and their municipalities
to obtain revenue; but, in doing so, it is also important
that they shall not dishonor their promises. The moral
duty of a state to kceep its word, in spirit as well as in
letter, is no less than that of an individual; and courts
which condemn direct impairment by legislation of contractual obligations should not be over-ready to approve
the adoption of circuitous and delusive means, which in
form avoid but in fact accomplish the same unconstitutional result.

