154

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285U. S.

DANIEL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. GUARANTY TRUST CO. OF NIEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 179.

Argued December 11, 1931.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. The filing of a petition for reclamation before a referee in bankruptcy does not submit the petitioner to the summary jurisdiction
of the referee in matters having no immediate relation to such claim.
So held where the referee attempted to adjudicate and enforce a
counterclaim for money alleged to belong to the trustee in bankruptcy against a trust company which had sought the return of
certain bonds, of which, it was alleged, the bankrupt had gained
possession by fraud. P., 161.
2. In No. XXXVII of General Orders in Bankruptcy, the provision
that " In proceedings in equity, instituted for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the act, or for enforcing the rights
and remedies given by it, the rules of equity practice established
by the Supreme Court of the United States shall be followed as
nearly as may be," does not apply to summary proceedings before
a referee for the restoration of specific property. P. 162.
49 F. (2d) 866, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

284 U. S. 602, to review a judgment of re-

versal on an appeal from an order of the District Court
modifying and affirming an order of a referee in bankruptcy.
Mr. Winthrop B. Lane, with whom Messrs. Halleck F.
Rose, Arthur R. Wells, and Paul L. Martin. were on the
brief, for petitioner.
A referee in bankruptcy has summary jurisdiction to
order a person holding property of the bankrupt estate
without adverse claim, to deliver the property to the
trustee in bankruptcy. Bankrutcy Act, §§ 2, 23, 33, 36,
38; Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1; Harrison v. Chamberlain, 271 U. S. 191.

DANIEL v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
154

Argument for Petitioner.

A mere assertion of an adverse claim does not oust this
jurisdiction. The court may inquire for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the claim is substantial or merely
colorable or frivolous. If the claim is of the latter class,
the court may proceed the same as though no adverse
claim had been asserted. Mueller v. Nugent, supra;
Gamble v. Daniel, 39 F. (2d) 447; May v. Henderson, 268
U. S. 111.
A claimant cannot acquire an adverse interest in property of the bankrupt estate that comes into his possession
after adjudication in bankruptcy. May v. Henderson,
supra; Reed v. Barnett Nat. Bank, 250 Fed. 983; Knapp
& Spencer Co. v. Drew, 160 Fed. 413; Eppley v. Baylor,
293 Fed. 305; Hdrrison v. Chamberlain, 271 U. S. 191.
The court has the same summary jurisdiction to order
the delivery of money or bank deposits as it has to order
the delivery of tangible property, real or personal. May
v. Henderson, 268 U. S. 111; Knapp & Spencer Co. v.
Drew, supra; Reed v. Barnett Nat. Bank, supra; In re
Davis, 119 Fed. 950 In re Walker GrainCo., 295 Fed. 120;
In re Radley Steel Const. Co., 212 Fed. 462.
The court has jurisdiction to adjudicate adverse claims
on property in its possession. Bankruptcy Act, § 70 (a);
Murphy v. Hofman Co:, 211 U. S.562; Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S.539; U. S. Fidelity & G. Co. v. Bray, 225
U. S.205;. Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U. S.
734; Straton v. New, 283 U..S. 318; Taubel-Scott-Kitzmiller Co. v. Fox, 264 U. S.426.
The presentation by the trustee of the cross-demand
and the power of the court to determine the issue so presented, are sanctioned by Equity Rule 30 and General
Order in Bankruptcy XXXVII. Buffalo Specialty Co. v.
Vancleef, 217 Fed. 91; Champion Spark Plug Co. v.
Champion Igniton Co., 247 Fed. 200; Marconi Wireless
Co. v. National Elec. Signaling Co., 206 Fed. 295;.Electric
Boat Co. v. Lake Torpedo Boat Co., 215 Fed. 377; Goodno

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285 U.S.

v. Hotchkiss, 230 Fed. 514; Harper Bros. v. Klaw, 232
Fed. 609; Dykes v. Widdows, 31 F. (2d) 745; Champlain
Realty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366.
The respondent, by coming into the bankruptcy court
and seeking affirmative summary relief, thereby gave the
court jurisdiction of its person, as to such issue, and all
such defenses, including hffirmativa claims, that might be
properly litigated in that summary proceeding. Consent
thus given can not be withdrawn so as to deprive the
court of jurisdiction so obtained. Operative Piano Co. v.
First Wisconsin Trust Co., 283 Fed. 904; In re Bennett,
285 Fed. 351; In re Pennsylvania Coffee.Co., 8 F. (2d)
98; Triangle Electric Co. v. Foutch, 40 F. (2d) 353; In re
Dernburg & Son, Inc., 5 F. (2d) 37; In re Barnett, 12 F.
(2d) 73; Wiswall v. Campbell, 93 U. S. 347.
Equitable terms may be imposed by a court as a condition of granting an order of reclamation. In re HoovenOwens-Rentschler Co., 195 Fed. 424; Remington on Bankruptcy, vol. 5, p. 602.
Respondent's withdrawal did not defeat the jurisdiction
to determine the issue raised by the answer. Vidal v.
Securities Co., 276 Fed. 855; Buffalo Specialty Co. v. Vancleef, 217 Fed. 91.
The speedy administration of the bankruptcy law requires the application of the modern equity practice which
permits the adjudication of all controversies between the
same parties in one suit. Mueller v. Xugent, 184 U. S. 1;
May v. Henderson, 268 U. S. 111; Harrison v. Chamber'lain, 271 U. S. 191.
Courts of bankruptcy, in the exercise of their equity
powers, act in personam and have summary jurisdiction
where a party voluntarily appears or can be served with
process, regardless of the location of the res or domicile of
the party. Robertson v. Howard, 229 U. S. 254;, Isaacs
v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U. S. 734; Alco Film

DANIEL v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
154

'Argument for Respondent.

Corp. v. Alco Film Service, 234 Fed. 55; Orinoco Iron Co.
v. Metzel, 230 Fed. 40; In re Britannia Mining Co., 197
Fed. 459; In re Small Shoe Co., 5 F. (2d) 956; Staunton
v. Wooden, 179 Fed. 61.
Ancillary jurisdiction does not bar the court of primary
jurisdiction from acting if the non-resident party voluntarily appears before it.
Mr. Porter R. Chandler, with whom Messrs. John W.
Davis and Win. C. Dorsey were on the brief, for
respondent.
Irrespective of whether respondent had an adverse
interest in the balance of the demand loan account claimed
by the trustee, the referee had no jurisdiction to entertain
such a counterclaim. Weidhorn v. Levy, 253 U. S. 268,
271; General Phonograph Corp. v. Fanning, 6 F. (2d)
115; Hebert v. Crawford, 228 U. S. 204; Murphy v.
Hofman Co., 211 U. S. 562; White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S.
542; Isaacs v. Hobbs Tic & Timber Co., 282 U. S. 734.
Courts have frequently and uniformly held that General Order XXXVII is not applicable to a summary proceeding. In re Cunney, 225 Fed. 426; InternationalHarvester Co. v. Carlson, 217 Fed. 736, 739; In re Hughes, 262
Fed. 500; Bradley v. Huntington, 277 Fed. 948; In re
Kenney & Greenwood, 23 F. (2d) 681.
Assuming that the referee did not err in overruling respondent's motion to strike out paragraph 8 of the trustee's answer, the referee should nevertheless have subsequently dismissed the counterclaim when it appeared
that the subject matter of the counterclaim was not a
specific res, or an admitted bank deposit, but was in effect
merely an alleged debt. In re Haley, 158 Fed. 74, appeal
dismissed 209 U. S. 546; In re Howe Mfg. Co., 193 Fed.
524; In re Ballou, 215 Fed. 810; Remington on Bankruptcy vol. 5, § 2350.
Assuming that ihe counterclaim of the trustee is for
property existing in tangible form, the referee is neverthe-

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

less bound to make inquiry as to whether the respondent
has an adverse interest in such property. The record discloses that the respondent has an adverse interest which
precluded the referee from proceeding further on the
If the adverse interest asserted by the
counterclaim.
party in possession of the property is found to be substantial and not colorable, the jurisdiction of the referee
thereupon terminates. A plenary suit must then be instituted. May v. Henderson, 268 U* S. 111; In re Selfridge, 33 F. (2d) 800; Shea v. Lewis, 206 Fed. 877; Board
v. Leary, 236 Fed. 521; Priest v. Weaver, 43 F. (2d) 57;
Johnston v. Spencer, 195 Fed. 215; Gamble v. Daniel, 39
F. (2d) 447.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
December 10, 1929, The Peters Trust Company, of
Omaha, Nebraska, was adjudged bankrupt by the United
States District Court for that State. March 17, 1930,
Herbert S. Daniel, petitioner here, became trustee of the
estate.
In April, 1930, the Guaranty Trust Company of New
York presented to the same court a petition for the reclamation of designated bonds. It alleged that, while insolvent and without intent to pay for them, the Peters
Company had fraudulently ordered and received these
bonds from the Guaranty Company of New York; that.
title-thereto had not passed to the Peters Company; that
no part of the purchase price had been paid. Also "that
on the dates said bonds were shipped by the Guaranty
Company of New York, said Guaranty Company of New
York, sold, assigned and set over to your petitioner, Guaranty Trust Company, for a valuable consideration, the
accounts against the said Peters Trust Company for said
bonds, and your petitioner is now the owner of said
bonds "; and that they were unlawfully withheld by the

DANIEL v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
154

Opinion of the Court.

trustee. The prayer was "that an order be entered instructing and directing, Herbert S. Daniel, Trustee of
said Peters Trust Company, Bankrupt, to deliver to your
petitioner the bonds described above and that your petitioner have such other and further relief as may seem just
and proper."
The trustee answered. He denied that the bankrupt
had acted fraudulently. He asserted that title to the
bonds had vested in it and petitioner had no right to
recover them.
After such denials and allegations, the trustee (Answer,
par. 7) stated that customers of the Peters Trust Company
had placed orders with it to buy the bonds; that they
had an interest in the controversy and should be made
parties to the proceeding. Also (par. 8)"Your trustee further alleg6s, that the Guaranty Trust
Company of New York, the petitioner and applicant
herein, has in its possession, on deposit, approximately
the sum of $31,224.60 which belongs to the bankrupt
estate, and which was accumulated by the Receiver and
Trustee of said bankrupt estate since the date it was adjudicated bankrupt. The trustee has made due demand
upon the petitioner for delivery of the said money, but
the Guaranty Trust Company of New. York, has refused to
deliver the said funds or any part thereof, and should be
required to account for all funds collected by it on behalf of the receiver or trustee of Peters Trust Company,
Bankrupt, or the bankrupt estate, and be directed to deliver the same forthwith to Herbert S. Daniel, Trustee."
The answer concludes"The trustee further prays for an order directing the
Guaranty Trust Company of New York to account to him
for all funds collected or now held by it belonging to the
bankrupt estate, and be ordered to deliver the same
[forthwith] to your trustee, and for such other relief
as to the Court may seem just and equitable."

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

The matter went to the referee. The Guaranty Trust
Company moved that paragraphs 7 and 8 be stricken
from the answer because they pertained to an issue entirely separate from the one submitted by its petition.
This was overruled. Thereupon, counsel for the Trust
Company asked that the reclamation proceeding be dismissed, and then withdrew.The referee took testimony concerning the relationship
and dealings among the parties. He found that the reclamation proceedings should be dismissed only insofar as
they sought to obtain the securities. Also, "the court
further finds that the Guaranty Trust Company has in
its hands the sum of $23,724.60 in cash, belonging to
Herbert S. Daniel, trusteee of the above named bankrupt;
that said sum was accumulated by Herbert S. Daniel as
receiver subsequent to February 12th, 1930, said moneys
having bden collected by said Guaranty Trust Company
for and on behalf of said bankrupt estate from the Prudential Insurance Company of America on mortgages
made by the bankrupt and sold to the Prudential Insurance Company of America, and that said Guaranty
Trust Companyr has not made herein any claim to the
said fund of $23,724.60, and has no claim to the said fund,
or to any part thereof, and is merely holding the said sum
of $23,724.60 as custodian and agent of Herbert S. Daniel,
as trustee of the above named bankrupt, and that said
sum should be delivered forthwith to said trustee."
The referee's final order directed the trustee to deliver
the bonds to specified customers of the Peters Trust
Company upon stated conditions, and further "That the
Guaranty Trust Company of New York, the applicant
herein, be, and it is hereby ordered and directed to forthwith pay over to Herbert S. Daniel, as trustee of the
above bankrupt estate, the sum of $23,724.60, of moneys
in the hands of said Guaranty Trust Company of New

DANIEL v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
154

Opinion of the Court.

York, belonging to Herbert S. Daniel, trustee of said
bankrupt estate, with interest thereon at the rate of 7
per cent per annum from this date."
The District Court modified the referee's order as to
interest and then affirmed it. The Guaranty Trust Company appealed. The Circuit Court of ,Appeals upheld
the objection offered to the jurisdiction of the referee
and upon that ground reversed the District Court. 49 F.
(2d) 866. It saidThe petition of appellant for reclamation
and the portion of the trustee's answer which asked for
affirmative relief were, in fact, petitions by the parties
asking the referee to exercise his summary jurisdiction in
proceedings in bankruptcy. The two proceedings were
quite distinct. Appellant sought to recover certain bonds
to which it claimed title. The trustee sought an order
that appellant should pay over money of the bankrupt
estate received by appellant, after bankruptcy. The
proceedings would not have been more unrelated to each
other, if the trustee had sought an order on appellant for
the delivery of books and papers such as was asked in
Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102, or an order for the
exdrination of witnesses such as was asked in Elkus,
Petitioner, 216 U. S. 115. We have been cited to no
authority for the proposition that a creditor or other
petitioner asking specific relief against a bankrupt's
estate, as provided by the Bankruptcy Act, thereby becomes subject to summary orders by the referee in matters entirely disconnected from the subject matter of
such claim or petition, and no such authority is believed
to exist."
The conclusion of the Circuit Court of Appeals is correct and its decree must be affirmed.
In the circumstances, Did the referee have jurisdiction
to enter'the turnover order against the Trust Company?
.187818-82-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

The answer must be "No" unless that Company by filing its petition for reclamation entered its general appearance and in effect consented to submit itself to summary proceedings before that officer in respect of matters
.having no immediate relation to the claim which it had
presented.
In practice such a rule' might lead to unfortunate complications and deprive owners of property of fair opportunity to recover. The risk incident to a general appearance and consent to adjudication of claims of all kinds
might easily deter where the right to recover is clear.
Moreover, the choice would not be between tribunals
merely, but between the ordinary processes in a plenary
suit and a summary hearing. We are not cited to any
opinion by an appellate court which definitely approves
the view advanced by the petitioner. We cannot conclude that the demand for speedy administration of
bankrupt estates is enough to justify such a radical
departure from ordinary procedure. And the suggestion
that it is possible to impose equitable terms as a condition
to an order of reclamation is not helpful. No such conditional order was proposed or entered.
The petitioner maintains that, read together and properly construed, General Order XXXVII and Equity Rule
30 applied in the circumstances and invested the referee
with jurisdiction to act as he did.
General Order XXXVII-General Provisions: "In proceedings in equity, instituted for the purpose of carrying
into effect the provisions of the act, or for enforcing the
rights and remedies given by it, the rules of equity practice established by the Supreme Court of the United
States shall be followed as' nearly as may be. In proceedings at law, instituted for the same purpose, the practice and procedure in cases at law shall be followed as
nearly as may be.. But the judge may, by special order
in any case, vary the time allowed for return of process,

DANIEL v. GUARANTY TRUST CC.
154

Opinion of the Court.

for appearance and pleading, and for taking testimony
and publication, and may otherwise modify the rules for
the preparation of any particular case so as to facilitate
a speedy hearing."
No. 30, Rules of Practice for the Courts of Equity of
the United States, provides-"...
The answer must
state in short and simple form any counter-claim arising
out of the transaction which is the subject matter of the
suit and may, without cross-bill, set out any set-off or
counter-claim against the plaintiff which might be the
subject of an independent suit in equity against him, and
such set-off or counter-claim, so set up, shall have the
same effect as a cross-suit, so as to enable the court to
pronounce a final judgment in the same suit both on the
original and the cross-claims."
Section 2, Bankruptcy Act, grants to bankruptcy courts
" such jurisdiction in law and in equity as will enable
them to exercise original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings to . . . (7) cause the estates of bankrupts
to be collected, reduced to money and distributed
and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as
herein otherwise provided." And § 38 extends to referees
"jurisdiction to . . . (4) perform such part of the
duties, except as to questions arising out of the applications of bankrupts for compositions or discharges, as
are by this Act conferred on courts of bankruptcy of their
respective districts, except as herein otherwise provided; . .
Counsel for petitioner assert: Bankruptcy proceedings
constitute a branch of equity jurisdiction; a court sitting
in bankruptcy is a court of equity. Fidelity Trust Co. v.
Gaskell (8th C. C. A.), 195 Fed. 865, 871. Remington
on Bankruptcy, Vol. 1, p. 48, § 23.
And then they say: " Obviously, except as the privilege of modification is granted to facilitate speedy hearings, the rules of equity practice are applicable, without
limitation or reservation, to all equitable proceedings in

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

courts of bankruptcy," including of course summary
proceedings before referees.
Without regard to other objections to the reasoning
offered to support petitioner's view, it is obviously unsound unless the words "proceedings in equity," in General Order XXXVII apply to summary proceedings before a referee like those here in question. And we think
no such intendment can be attributed to them.
This Order contains general provisions designed to
bring about prompt settlement of bankrupt estates. To
that end it directs that in proceedings in equity and at
law instituted for the purpose of carrying the Bankruptcy Act into effect and enforcing rights and remedies
given thereby, the rules which govern practice in equity
and law courts shall be observed, but that the judge may
modify them "so as to facilitate a speedy hearing."
Many of the equity rules are inapplicable to summary
proceedings before referees. Such proceedings are not
in equity as that term is commonly understood. General
Order IV-Conduct of Proceedings-uses the words" Propeedings in bankruptcy" when referring to the practice
to be followed by Bankruptcy courts-other orders use
the word " proceedings."
The distinction between summary proceedings and plenary suits is adverted to in Weidhorn v. Levy, 253 U. S.
268, 271, 273. There it is also suggested that "proceedings in equity" and "proceedings at law," as used in
General Order XXXVII, refer to something other than
"proceedings in bankruptcy."
Our conclusion accords with what has been held by
other Federal courts. In re Cunney, 225 Fed. 426; International Harvester Co. v. Carlson, 217 Fed. 736, 739;
In re Hughes, 262 Fed. 500; Bradley v. Huntington, 277
Fed. 948; In re Kenney & Greenwood, 23 F. (2d) 681.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

