LEACH v. NICHOLS.

165

Opinion of the Court.

LEACH, EXECUTOR, v. NICHOLS, FORMERLY
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 468. Argued February 23, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.
1. Question of law, as to whether a state tax should have been
deducted in computing a federal estate tax,-held properly raised
in the courts below. P. 166.
2. The tax imposed in Massachusetts upon the passing of property by,
will or intestate succession, though paid in the first instance by the
personal representative, is in effect a succession tax, the burden falling ultimately on the legatee or other beneficiary. P. 169.
3. Such a tax, when paid by an executor, was not deductible under the
federal Revenue Act of 1916, ยง 203, as one of the " charges against
the estate," in computing the transfer tax imposed by that statute.
Id.
50 F. (2d) 787, affirmed.
. CERTIORARI, 284 U. S. 613, to review a judgment reversing a judgment for overpayment of taxes recovered by
the present petitioner in an action against the Collector.

Mr. 0. Walker Taylor for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, ,with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, and Messrs. Sewall Key, Hayner N.
Larson, Bradley B. Gilman, and Erwin N. Griswold were
on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, amici curiae briefs were filed by Mr.

Joseph E. Warner, Attorney General of Massachusetts,
and Messrs. Clarence W.
Schwertner.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

DeKnight and

Frederick

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
William E. Walker, of Taunton, Massachusetts, died
testate November 9, 1918. Petitioner, as executor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

estate, paid the taxes imposed by the State in respect of
the property which passed from the decedent. He also
paid to respondent the federal estate taxes prescribed
by the Revenue Act 1916, 39 Stat. 756, 778, which the
Commissioner reckoned without deducting from the gross
estate the taxes exacted by the State. The Circuit Court
of Appeals denied his right to recover the alleged overpayment-the difference between the sum demanded and
what would have been due if the claimed deduction had
been allowed. 50 F. (2d) 787. The District Court had
held otherwise. 42 F. (2d) 918.
Here the insistence is that to ascertain the net estate
under ยง 203, Revenue Act, September 8, 1916, it was
necessary to deduct from the gross estate the tax paid
to Massachusetts as required by c. 65 of her General
Laws.' Also, that in the circumstances the Circuit Court
of Appeals should not have decided this question of law.
The record shows that the court below properly considered and ruled upon the point of law. The District
Court-where the cause was tried without a jury-had
said of the state tax, " there can be no question that it
was legally deductible." The amended declaration alleges that the Commissioner wrongfully refused to allow
the deduction. The answer contains a general denial.
The agreed statement of facts points out-" That in arriving at the value of the net estate upon which the said
total tax was computed the Commissioner did not make
any deduction or allowance for the amount required to
pay the Massachusetts inheritance tax, which the estate
was required to pay and did pay to the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts." And the defendant asked the court
to find as matter of law-" Plaintiff is not entitled to recover anything of the defendant and his declaration must
be .dismissed with judgment for the defendant for his
;costs." The trial court misconstrued the federal statute.

LEACH v. NICHOLS.
165

Opinion of the Court.

With his petition for appeal from its judgment, the defendant presented, among others, the following assignment of error: The District Court erred in holding: "It
is obvious that the United States had demanded and received a tax levied upon the estate of the plaintiff's testator in excess of the amount lawfully due. It is not the
correct tax measured by the net estate in view of decisions
of the court."
The Revenue Act of 1916 (amended as to rates March
3, 1917, 39 Stat. 1000, 1002, and October 3, 1917, 40 Stat.
300, 324) imposed a graduated tax upon the transfer of
the net estate, ascertained as directed by ยง 203, of every
person dying thereafter.
"Sec. 203: That for the purpose of the tax the value
of the net estate shall be determined"(a) In the case of a resident, by deducting from the
value of the gross estate"(1) Such amounts for funeral expenses, administration expenses, claims against the estate, unpaid mortgages, losses incurred during the settlement of the estate
arising from fires, storms, shipwreck, or other casualty,
and from theft, when such losses are not compensated
for by insurance or otherwise, support during the settlement of the estate of those dependent upon the decedent,
and such other charges against the estate, as are allowed
by the laws of the jurisdiction, whether within or without the United States, under which the estate is being
administered; . .
The General Laws of Massachusetts (1921)-vol. 1,
c. 65, provide"Section 1. All property within the jurisdiction of the
Commonwealth, corporeal or incorporeal, and any interest therein, whether belonging to inhabitants of the Commonwealth or not, which shall pass by will, or by laws
regulating intestate succession . . . shall be subject to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

tax at the percentage rates fixed by the following
table: . . .
"Section 6. Administrators, executors and trustees,
grantees or donees under conveyances or gifts made during the life of the grantor or donor, and persons to whom
beneficial interests shall accrue by survivorship, shall
be liable for the taxes imposed by this chapter, with
interest, until the same have been paid.
"Sectiojn Z. Taxes imposed by this chapter upon property or interests therein, passing by will or by laws regulating intestate succession, shall be payable to the state
treasurer by the executors, administrators or trustees at
the expiration of one year from the date of the giving of
bond by the executors, administrators or trustees first
appointed; . . .
"Section 9. Property of which a decedent dies seized
or possessed, subjected to taxes as aforesaid, in whatever
form of investment it may happen to be, and all property
acquired in substitution therefor, shall be charged with
a lien for all taxes and interest thereon which are or may
become due on such property. ....
"Section 17. An executor, administrator or trustee
holding property subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter shall deduct the tax therefrom or collect it from
the legatee or person entitled to said property; and he
shall not deliver property or a specific legacy subject to
said tax until he has collected the tax thereon. An executor or administrator shall collect taxes due upon land
passing by inheritance or will which is subject to said
tax from the heirs or devisees entitled thereto, and he
may be authorized to sell said land, in the manner prescribed by section twenty-one, if they refuse or neglect
to pay said tax."
Manifestly, the state taxes paid by the executor were
not permissible deductions unless they were such " charges
against the estate, as are allowed by the laws of the juris-

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. BUNN.
165

169

Syllabus.

diction, . . . under which the estate is being administered." Charges against an estate are only such as affect
it as a whole. They do not include taxes on the rights of
individual beneficiaries. New York Trust Co. v. Eisner,
256 U. S. 345, 350.
The Massachusetts statute by plain words places the
feal burden of the tax upon the legatee or other person
who receives a decedent's property. Payments required
of an executor are only preliminary; ultimately they
must be met by the beneficiaries.
Decisions of the Massachusetts Supreme Court show
with adequate certainty that the right of succession is the
real object of the charge laid because of property which
passes by will or under the laws relative to intestacy.
The thing burdened is the right to receive. Attorney
General v. Stone, 209 Mass. 186, 190; 95 N. E. 395;
Magee v. Commissioner, 256 Mass. 512; 153 N. E. 1;!
Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 267
Mass. 240; 166 N. E. 729; Coolidge v. Commissioner, 268.
Mass. 443, 447; 167 N. E. 757. See Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260.
It is unnecessary for us to consider whether the petitioner filed a proper claim for refund within the period
prescribed by the statute.
The challenged judgment is
Affirmed.
HARTFORD

ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY CO.. v.
BUNN ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 333.

Argued January 14, 1932.-Decided March 14, 1932.

1. After the time for appeal as fixed by statute has expired, this
Court has not jurisdiction to permit a party below to join in an
appeal taken in time by another party. P. 177.

