22

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285U.S.

CROWELL, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, v.
BENSON.*
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 19. Argued October 20, 21, 1931.-Decided February 23, 1932.
1. In virtue of its power to alter or revise the maritime law, Congress
may p'ovide that where employees in maritime employment are
disabled or die from accidental injuries arising out of or in the course
of their employment upon the navigable waters of the United States,
their employers shall pay reasonable compensation, without regard
to fault as the cause of injury, and be thereby relieved from other
liability. P. 39.
2. The Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, which
provides a scheme for compensation in the class of cases above described, applicable if recovery "through workmen's compensation
proceedings may not validly be provided by State law," upheld as
to substantive provisions. P. 22.
3. The classifications of disabilities and beneficiaries and the amounts
of compensation provided in the Act not being unreasonable, the
Act in those respects is consistent with the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment. Pp. 41-42.
4. The difficulty of ascertaining actual damages justifies the fixing of
standard coml)ensation in such an Act at figures reasonably approximating probable damages. Id.
5. Considerations respecting the relation of master and servant, which
sustain workmen's compensation laws of the States against objec-

tions under- the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
are applicable to the substantive provisions of this Act of Congress,
tested by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. Id.
6. Claims for compensation under the above-mentioned Act are filed
with administrative officers called deputy commissioners, who "shall
have full power and authority to hear and determine all questions
in respect of such claim." They may issue subpoenas which are
enforcible through contempt proceedings in federal courts. In in* Together with No. 20, Crowell, Deputy Commissioner, and Knudsen v. Benson.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Syllabus.

vestigating and hearing claims they are not to be bound by the
common-law or statutory rules of evidence, except as provided in
the Act, but are to proceed in such manner "as to best ascertain the
rights of the parties." Hearings are to be public and reported
stenographically and records are to be made, for which the Commission created by the Act must provide by regulation. Orders for
compensation are to become final in 30 days. When compensation
ordered is not paid, a supplementary order may be made declaring
the amount in default, and judgment for that amount may be entered in a federal court if the order "is in accordance with law."
Review of such judgment may be had as in suits for damages at
common law. The Act further provides that if a compensation order
is "not in accordance with law," it may be suspended or set aside,
in whole or in part, through injunction proceedings against the
deputy commissioner who made it; and also that beneficiaries of
such an order, or the deputy commisioner, may have it enforced in
a federal court if the court determines that the order" was made and
served in accordance with law." Held:
(1) As the claims are governed by the maritime law and within
the admiralty jurisdiction, trial by jury is not required by the
Seventh Amendment. P. 45.
(2) The Act reserves to the admiralty courts full power to pass
upon all questions of law, including the power to deny effect to an
administrative finding which is without evidence or contrary to the
indisputable character of the evidence, or where the hearing was
inadequate, unfair, or arbitrary. In this respect it satisfies due
process and attempts no interference with the judicial power in
admiralty and maritime cases. Pp. 46, 49.
(3) As regards questions of fact, the Act does not expressly preclude the court, in proceedings to set aside an order as not in accordance with law, from making its own examination and determination of facts whenever that is deemed necessary to enforce constitutional rights; and, as the Act is to be construed to support
rather than to defeat it, no such limitation should be implied.
P. 46.
(4) Apart from constitutional rights to be enforced in court, the
Act contemplates that, in cases within its purview, the findings of a
deputy commissioner on questions of fact respecting injuries to employees shall be final if supported by evidence. P. 46.
(5) So limited, the use of the administrative method for determining facts (assuming due notice and opportunity to be heard and
that findings are based upon evidence) is consistent with due process

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Syllabus.

285U.S.

and is not an unconstitutional invasion of the judicial power.
Pp. 47, 51.
(6) The Act requires a public hearing and that all proceedings
upon a particular claim shall be shown in the record and open to
challenge and opposing evidence; facts known to the deputy commissioner but not put in evidence will not support a compensation
order. P. 48.
(7) The provision that the deputy commissioner shall not be
bound by the rules of evidence applicable in a court or by technical
rules of procedure is compatible with due process provided the substantial rights of the parties be not infringed. Id.
(8) Equipping the admiralty courts with power of injunction, for
enforcing the standards of maritime law as defined by the Act, is
consistent with Art. III of the Constitution. P. 49.
(9) Where the question of fact relates to either of the two fundamental and jurisdictional conditions of the statute, viz., (a) occurrence of the injury upon navigable waters of the United States, and
(b) existence of the relation of master and servant, the finding of
the deputy commissioner is not conclusive, but the question is determinable de vovo by the court on full pleadings and proofs in a
suit for an injunction, in which the court is not confined to the evidence taken and record made before the deputy commissioner. The
statute is susceptible of this construction and must be so construed
to avoid unconstitutionality. Pp. 54, 62.
(10) In amending and revising the maritime law, Congress can
not reach beyond the constitutional limits of the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction. P. 55.
(11) Congress has no general authority to amend the maritime
law so as to establish liability without fault in maritime cases regardless of particular circumstances or relations,-in this instance, the
relation of master and servant. P. 56.
7. As respects the power of Congress to provide for determinations of
fact otherwise than through the exercise of the judicial power reposed by the Constitution in the courts of the United States, a
clear distinction exists between cases arising between the Government and other persons which by their nature do not require judicial
determination (though they may be susceptible of it) and cases of
private right, that is, of the liability of one individual to another
under the law as defined. P. 50.
8. Proper maintenance of the federal judicial power in enforcing constitutional restrictions precludes a power in Congress to substitute
for constitutional courts, in which the judicial power of the United

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Argument for Petitioner.

States is vested, an administrative agency for the final determination
of facts upon which the enforcement of the constitutional rights
of the citizen depend. P. 56.
9. A State, on the other hand, may distribute its powers as it sees fit,
provided only that it acts consistently with the essential demands of
due process and does not transgress restrictions of the Federal Constitution applicable to state authority. P. 57.
10. The power of Congress to change the procedure of the courts of
admiralty would not justify lodging in an administrative officer final
decision of facts upon which the constitutional rights of individuals
are dependent. P. 61.
11. In deciding upon the validity of an Act of Congress, regard must
be had to substance rather than form. P. 53.
12. Where the validity of an Act of Congress is drawn in question or
where a serious doubt of its constitutionality is raised, it is a cardinal principle that the court will first ascertain whether a construction of the Act is fairly possible by which the question may be
avoided. P. 62.
13. A declaration in a statute that if any of its provisions, or the
application thereof to any persons or circumstances, shall be found
unconstitutional, the validity of the remainder of the statute and
the applicability of its provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected, evidences an intention that no implication
from the terms of the Act which would render them invalid should
be indulged. P. 63.
45 F. (2d) 66, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 283 U. S. 814, to review a decree which af-

firmed a decree of the District Court, 33 F. (2d) 137; 38
id. 306, enjoining the enforcement of an award of compensation made by a deputy commissioner under the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Mr. Erwin N.
Griswold was on the brief, for Crowell, petitioner.
This statute is a comprehensive workmen's compensation law, modeled after the New York state compensation law. See H. Rep. No. 1190, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 2

OCTOBER TElIM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285 U.S.

Unless the provision confining court review to questions of law is valid, the time required for final deterruination of awards will be greatly increased and the Act
will have fallen far short of its mark.
The provision that the administrative determination
of fact shall be conclusive in the courts, when supported
by evidence, is found in a great majority of the state
workmen's compensation laws. The state courts have
without exception upheld such provisions.
In at least two instances this Court has considered
state workmen's compensation laws which contained provisions that administrative findings of fact should be
final. New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188;
Booth Fisheries Co. v. Industrial Commission, 271 U. S.
208.
Under § 21, the only ground on which a compensation
order may be set aside is that it is " not in accordance with
law." This language was adopted from the statutory provision for review of the decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals, § 1003 (b), Rev. Act 1926, under which it is settled that the Board's determinations of fact, when supported by evidence, are conclusive. Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716; Avery v. Commissioner, 22 F. (2d)
6; American Savings Bank & Tr. Co. v. Burnet, 45 F. (2d)
548; Nichols v. Commissioner, 44 F. (2d) 157; Bedell v.
Commissioner, 30 F. (2d) 622. There is no room for any
other construction of the same words as they are used in
the present Act.
Had Congress intended a trial de novo, the jurisdiction
of the court would not have been limited to consideration
of the legality of the administrative order. The words
" if not in accordance with law," which plainly limit the
power of the court to " suspend or set aside" the order,
like the words "as the facts and law of the case may

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Argument for Petitioner.

warrant" under consideration in Ma-King Co. v. Blair,
271 U. S. 479, 483, merely give the court authority to determine whether the order is based upon an error of law,
is wholly unsupported by the evidence, or is arbitrary or
capricious. This interpretation is strongly supported by
the frame and purpose of the Act as a whole.
All the provisions of the Act dealing with the manner
in which a remedy is given to an injured employee and
the limited time within which action must be taken,
indicate a clear intention that the facts shall be speedily
determined by the deputy commissioner so that compensation may be awarded without the delay usually incident to litigation in the courts.
The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment is
fully satisfied by the provision for a hearing before an
administrative tribunal and for a'judicial review of the
administrative determination if that determination is
"not in accordance with law." Reetz v. Michigan, 188
U. S. 505, 507; TVeimer v. Bunbury, 30 Mich. 201, 211;
Long Island Water Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685, 695;
Phillips v. Commissioner,283 U. S. 589, 600.
In numerous instances Congress has expressly provided
that administrative findings of fact when supported by
evidence shall be conclusive. Fed. Tr. Comm. Act, U. S.
C., Tit. 15, § 45; Clayton Act, id. § 21; Tariff Act, 1922,
U. S. C., Tit. 19, § 176; Tariff Act, 1930, U. S. C., Supp.
IV, Tit. 19, § 1337 (c) ; Radio Act, id. Tit. 47, § 96.
In many decisions of this Court statutes of this type
have been applied, and in other decisions findings of
administrative bodies have been held conclusive, even
though the statutes involved did not explicitly so provide.
Federal Trade Comm. v. Curtis Pub. Co., 260 U. S. 568,
580; InternationalShoe Co. v. Federal Trade Comm., 280
U. S. 291, 297.
The courts will not review the findings of fact of the
Interstate Commerce Commission by passing upon the

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285 U.S.

credibility of witnesses or the effective weight of testimony. See e. g., Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, 251; id. v. Union Pac.
R. Co., 222 U. S. 541; id. v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 227
U. S. 88; Western Papermakers Co. v. United States, 271
U. S. 268; Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.
658, 663.
Decisions of heads of executive departments upon questions of fact are final and conclusive. Bates & Guild Co. v.
Payne, 194 U. S. 106; Public Clearing House v. Coyne,
194 U. S. 407; Houston v. St. Louis Packing Co., 249 U. S.
479; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S.
420, 443, 444; Medbury v. United States, 173 U. S. 492;
Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651; Fong
Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698; Lem Moon
Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538; United States v.
Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253; Quon Quon Poy v. Johnson, 273
U. S. 352.
So of determinations of fact by other administrative
officials. Passavant v. United States, 148 U. S. 214;
Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636; Burfenning v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 321, 323; Johnson
v. Drew, 171 U. S. 93; Silberschein v. United States, 266
U. S. 221; United States v. Williams, 278 U. S. 255; MaKing Co. v. Blair, 271 U. S. 479, 483; Williamsport Wire
Rope Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 551.
Findings of fact of the Board of Tax Appeals are conclusive upon the courts. Phillips v. Commissioner, 283
U. S. 589. See also Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716.
There is nothing in the Constitution establishing a universal rule that there must be a trial de novo in the
tcourts in all suits to set aside decisions made by administrative authorities. The award of compensation by a
deputy commissioner and the finding of facts upon which
it is made are not different by nature from findings and

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Argument for Petitioner.

orders made by the Federal Trade Commission, the Interstate Commerce Commission, or other administrative
bodies.
The jurisdiction of the District Court under § 21 (b)
is limited to a determination of the question whether the
order is "not in accordance with law." This requires a
consideration of the case on the record made before the
deputy commissioner. If there is substantial evidence to
support the order, the findings of the deputy commissioner are conclusive.
Distinguishing: Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon
Borough, 253 U. S. 287; Bluefield Co. v. Public Serv.
Comm., 262 U. S. 679, 689; Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Commissioners, 278 U. S. 24, 37-41; Liu Hop Fong v. United
States, 209 U. S. 453, 461; Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259
U. S. 276, 284. See Dickinson, Administrative Justice and
the Supremacy of Law (1927) pp. 39-75; Frankfurter,
The Task of Administrative Law (1927) 75 U. of P. L.
Rev. 614, 619-20.
The decision in the Ohio Valley Water Co. case is
simply that a legislative rate-making order of a commission must be subject to the same reiview as an act of the
legislature. It did not overrule decisions arising in other
fields of administrative activity in which it has repeatedly
.been held that determinations of fact may be made conclusive when they are supported by evidence. Indeed,
many such decisions have been announced by this Court
since the decision of the Ohio Valley Water Co. case.
See e. g., Federal Trade Comm. v. Curtis Pub. Co., 260
U. S. 568, 580; Virginian Ry. Co. v. )United States, 272
U. S. 658, 663; United States v. Williams, 278 U. S. 255;
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420,
443-444; Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589.
In the present case the administrative proceedings were
not legislative in character but were brought to determine a present liability based on past facts and exist-

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Petitioner.

285U.S.

ing legislation. In such a case the administrative body
is sitting in a quasi-judicial capacity, and under the numerous decisions of this Court, heretofore referred to, its
conclusions on the facts when supported by evidence may
properly be made conclusive.
The Liu Hop Fong case is clearly no more than a determination that the statute there involved by its terms
provided for a trial de novo on an appeal to the District
Court.
In Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, the question of
citizenship was considered to be jurisdictional, because, if
the person was a citizen, the Secretary of Labor was
wholly without authority to order his deportation. Of
course, administrative determinations are valid only when
they are made within the power which has been conferred.
The determination of the question whether the administrative officer has exceeded his authority is essentially a
question of law, subject to review in the courts. No such
question arises in this case. The statute defines the commissioner's jurisdiction. It grants "full power and authority to hear and determine all questions" in respect
of the claim for compensation. § 19 (a). It follows that
Knudsen's assertion of employment, made in his claim and
disputed by Benson, presented a question which the commissioner had power-that is, jurisdiction-to determine.
There was nothing inherent in the nature of this issue to
distinguish it from other questions of fact which may
constitutionally be left to administrative determination.
At the time Knudsen was employed, Benson had notice
through the Act that liability might be imposed. The liability was a risk incidental to his business. Probably the
present question would never have been raised were it not
for the decision in the Ohio Valley Water Co. case. In all
of the other numerous cases involving it in the lower federal courts, the contention we make has been sustained.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Argument for Petitioner.

A great majority of the state workmen's compensation
acts expressly provide that administrative findings of fact
shall be final. Apparently without a single exception
such provisions have been held valid and constitutional by
the state courts. The decisions reaching this result are
too numerous to catalogue. See especially Nega v. Chicago Rys. Co., 317 Ill. 483; Helfrick v. Dahlstron Metallic Door Co., 256 N. Y. 199.
There is no basis for the contention that the federal
district courts sitting in admiralty are the only tribunals
competent to consider compensation for injuries sustained
on navigable waters. When the injury is such that it is
merely a matter of local concern, compensation may be
had under the state compensation laws and the award
may be made by the administrative tribunals created by
the State. Seamen injured on navigable waters may recover under the Jones Act in actions at law commenced in
state courts. When the remedy sought is in personam,
it may be by libel in the District Court, or by an action
at law in a federal or state court.
This enactment was within the power of Congress to
alter, amend, or revise the maritime law. No limitation
upon the exercise of this power is to be found in the
words of the Constitution extending the judicial power
of the United States to all cases of admiralty and maritime.
jurisdiction.
The court below erred in directing a transfer from the
equity to the admiralty side.
Mr. Alexis T. Gresham, with whom Mr. Palmer Pillans
was on the brief, for Knudsen, petitioner.
The question relates solely to the procedural provisions of the Act. The makers of the Constitution were
not concerned with fixing the jurisdiction of the lower
courts of the general Government as between Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Argument for Respondent.

285U.S.

and the judiciary, much less with establishing the procedure of such courts. To reach the conclusion found
by the courts below, it must be held that the Constitution denies the right of the Congress to fix the procedure
of the lower federal courts in respect to the determination
of. facts. But even the States may in matters of mere
local concern exclude the jurisdiction of the admiralty
courts over cases to which the jurisdiction otherwise
would extend. However, the power of the Congress in
the maritime law is broad and paramount. By it that law
has from time to time been -materially changed, the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts defined and restricted,
the procedure of the district courts sitting in admiralty defined and regulated. In fields of congressional activity
other than the maritime field Congress has restricted the
jurisdiction of the inferior federal tribunals, and has done
so constitutionally, as this court has decided. Jurisdiction, either original or appellate, may extend (save in certain cases before this Court) as Congress wills. There is
no distinction in the congressional grants of judicial power
between the field of maritime activity and other fields entrusted to the general Government. If the Congress may
restrict the jurisdiction of the inferior federal courts to
limits beyond which those courts had theretofore exercised
jurisdiction, as respecting cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, it may so limit cases
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. A fortiori Congress may, in a proceeding under a maritime
workers' compensation act, require determinations of fact
in the first instance to be reached by an administrative
officer.
Mr. Harry T. Smith, with whom Mr. Vincent F. Kilborn.was on the brief, for respondent.
The ruling on the motions to dismiss the bill did not
raise the question of whether the cause was triable de

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Argument for Respondent.

novo, or in admiralty, and petitioners entered upon a
de novo trial in the District Court, offered evidence and
took their chance of a favorable decision, without objection or exception to such procedure, and should not be
heard to complain that the proceedings were irregular
or erroneous. Commissioner v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co.,
257 U. S. 547; Reavis v. Fianza,215 U. S. 16, 25.
The only issue in fact tried and decided by the District Judge was whether or not Knudsen was an employee
of Benson. If he was not, the deputy commissioner had
no power or jurisdiction to enter an award in his favor.
Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276; United States v.
Grimley, 137 U. S. 147; Crowell v. Benson, 45 F. (2d)
66; Pine v. Industrial Comm., 108 Okla. 185; Borgnis v.
Falk Co., 147 Wis. 327; Courter v. Simpson Const. Co.,
264 Ill. 488; Hunter v. Colfax Consol. Coal Co., 175 Ia.
245; Uphofi v. Industrial Board, 271 Ill. 312; Hahnemann Hospital v. Industrial Board, 282 Ill. 316; Thede
Bros. v. Industrial Comm., 285 Ill. 483; Paul v. Industrial Comm., 289 Ill. 532; Dorlon Bros. v. Industrial
Comm., 173 Cal. 250; Roberts v. Industrial Comm., 52
Cal. App. 31; Industrial Comm. v. Evans, 52 Utah 394.
The jurisdiction of the deputy commissioner being special and limited, the District Court had the right to determine, on its independent judgment of the law and the
evidence offered before it, whether jurisdiction to make
the award existed, or whether the deputy commissioner
acted beyond and without his jurisdiction. Fundamental
and jurisdictional questions are always open to determination in the courts, whether the order or decision be made
by a court of special or limited jurisdiction, or by an
administrative board or body; the question of whether
such a board or body acted within or beyond its jurisdiction is always a judicial question. Ng Fung Ho v. White,
259 U. S. 276; United States v. Grimley, 137 U. S. 147;
Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 215; Kempe's Lessee
0

137818 -32-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1931
Argument for Respondent.

285U.S.

v. Kennedy, 5 Oranch 173, 185; McClaughry v. Deming,
186 U. S. 49, 63; Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543,
555; Givens v. Zerbst, 255 U. S. 11, 19.
The question as to whether such an award is subject
to review de novo upon matters other than the jurisdictional facts does not seem to us to be material, as it was
the find4ug of the court in this case that the jurisdictional'
facts did not exist.
Since it is provided by the Constitution that no citizen
shall be deprived of life, liberty and property without
due process of law, what difference does it make under
what classification we may place the commissioner?
Surely it matters not from what source authority may be
obtained or what powers Congress may attempt to confer upon him, he can never be so empowered as to enable
him to condemn a citizen to liability to another, by any
proceedings which may be beyond the limits of his jurisdiction; and this proposition is accentuated when it appears, hs in this case, that the order has not been based
entirely upon the evidence produced at a hearing, but
has been based, at least in part, upon the information
obtained by the commissioner from other sources.
To limit the court, in its review of the jurisdictional
facts, to a consideration of the evidence offered before
the commissioner at the hearing would make it impossible
for the court to consider the question of jurisdiction at
all, since the commissioner was not required to and did
not reveal in his report either the nature or the result
of the private inquiries upon which he relied, in part or
in whole, for his finding, so that such findings as he made
could not be reviewed except upon a proceeding de novo.
There is no express provision in the Act for an appeal
only on questions of law or that the commissioner's finding of facts shall be conclusive if supported by any substantial evidence. The method of review provided is in
a court ordinarily of original jurisdiction only, and the

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Argument for Respondent.

proceeding prescribed is original in character. There is
no provision in regard to how the proceedings in the
court shall be heard, nor as to what papers shall be filed
or what testimony given. There is no provision that the
proceedings shall be upon a transcript of the proceedings
before the commissioner or for bringing up a record by bill
of exceptions. Every consideration exists in this case that
influenced the court to hold in the case of Liu Hop Fong
v. United States, 209 U. S. 453, 461-2, that a Chinaman
appealing to the District Court from the judgment or order
of a United States Commissioner in cases arising under
the Chinese Exclusion Law, is entitled to a trial de novo.
The case is one within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and even on appeal in such cases, unless Congress has clearly indicated the contrary, the trial is de
novo both on the law and the facts.
The expression "not in accordance with law " is equivocal and should not be so construed as to take away jurisdiction of admiralty cases of this character expressly and
clearly conferred on the federal courts.
The Act if construed to accord a hearing de novo in the
District Court, will not materially affect a speedy hearing
in most cases; and if it did, justice should not be sacrificed to speed, nor should the clear jurisdiction conferred
on district courts be withdrawn by implication from an
argument of convenience.
The fact that, while the Act is modeled on the New
York Act, it omits the provisions of that Act making the
finding of the commissioner fin)al on all questions of fact
and providing for the certifying only of questions of law,
is strongly indicative that Congress never intended an
appeal only on questions of law.
Conceding the power of Congress, a party should not be
deprived of the security of a judicial hearing heretofore
plainly provided for, unless that result is made necessary
by clear and unmistakable language.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

This is a case or controversy under a new system of
admiralty or maritime rules; and the application of those
rules to a past state of facts, so as to determine liability
vel non as between a contesting employer and employee,
involves the exercise of the judicial power of the Federal Government which, under Art. 3, §§ 1 and 2 of the
Constitution, can only be exercised by a constitutional
court created under that article. Ex parte Bakelite Corp.,
279 U. S. 438; American Ins. Co. v. Carter, 1 Pet. 511,
546; Den v. Hoboken Land & Imp. Co., 18 How. 272;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46.
Any attempt by Congress to confer this judicial power
or jurisdiction on any federal administrative officer, board
or legislative court would violate that article, and likewise would violate the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment, because it is not the process provided for
such cases by the Constitution. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304; Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276.
To construe the Act as contended for by petitioners
would at least raise a grave question as to its constitutionality which should always be avoided, if possible.
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401;
United States v. La Franca,282 U. S. 568; Russian Volunteer Fleet v. United States, 282 U. S. 481.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This suit was brought in the District Court to enjoin
the enforcement of an award made by petitioner Crowell,
as deputy commissioner of the United States Employees'
Compensation Commission, in favor of the petitioner
Knudsen and against the respondent Benson. The award
was made under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (Act of March 4, 1927, c. 509, 44
Stat. 1424; U. S. C. Tit. 33, §§ 901-950) and rested upon

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

the finding of the deputy commissioner that Knudsen
was injured while in the employ of Benson and performing service upon the navigable waters of the United States.
The complainant alleged that the award was contrary to
law for the reason that Knudsen was not at the time of his
injury an employee of the complainant and his claim was
not 'within the jurisdiction' of the deputy commissioner.
An amended complaint charged that the Act was unconstitutional upon the grounds that it violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, the provision of the
Seventh Amendment as to trial by jury, that of the Fourth
Amendment as to unreasonable search and seizure, and
the provisions of Article III with respect to the judicial
power of th3 United States. The District Judge denied
motions to dismiss and granted a hearing de novo upon
the facts and the law, expressing the opinion that the Act
would be invalid if not construed to.permit such a hearing.
The case was transferred to the admiralty docket, answers
were filed presenting the issue as to the fact of employment, and the evidence of both parties having been heard,
the District Court decided that Knudsen was not in the
employ of the petitioner and restrained the enforcement
of the award. 33 F. (2d) 137; 38 F. (2d) 306. The
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
45 F. (2d) 66, and this Court granted writs of certiorari.
283 U. S.814.
The question of the validity of the Act may be considered in relation to (1) its provisions defining substantive rights and (2) its procedural requirements.
First. The Act has two limitations that are fundamental. It deals exclusively with compensation in respect of
disability or death resulting "from an injury occurring
upon the navigable waters of the United States" if recovery " through workmen's compensation proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

may not validly be provided by State law," and it applies
only when the relation of master and servant exists. § 3."
"Injury," within the statute, "means accidental injury
or death arising out of and in the course of employment,"
and the term "employer" means one "any of whose employees are employed in maritime employment, in whole
or in part," upon such navigable waters. § 2 (2) (4).
Employers are made liable for the payment to their employees of prescribed compensation " irrespective of fault
as a cause for the injury." § 4. The liability is exclusive,
unless the employer fails to secure payment of the compensation. § 5. The employer is required to furnish appropriate medical and other treatment. § 7. The compensation for temporary or permanent disability, total or
partial, according to the statutory classification, and in
case of the death of the employee, is fixed, being based
upon prescribed percentages of average weekly wages, and
the persons to whom payments are to be made are designated. §§ 6, 8, 9, 10. Employers must secure the paySection three of the Act as to "Coverage " provides:
"Sec. 3. (a) Compensation shall be payable under this Act in
respect of disability or death of an employee, but only if the disability or death results from an injury occurring upon the navigable
waters of the United States (including any dry dock) and if recovery
for the disability or death through workmen's compensation proceedings may not validly be provided by State law. No compensation
shall be payable in respect of the disability or death of'"(1) A master or member of a crew of any vessel, nor. any person
engaged by the master to load or unload or repair any small vessel
under eighteen tons net; or
"(2) An officer or employee of the United States or any agency
thereof or of any State or foreign government, or of any political
subdivision thereof.
"(b) No compensation shall be payable if the injury was occasioned
solely by the intoxication of the employee or by the willful intention
of the employee to injure or kill himself or another."

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court

ment of compensation by procuring insurance or by becoming self-insurers in the manner stipulated. § 32.
Failure to provide such security is a misdemeanor. § 38.
As the Act relates solely to injuries occurring upon the
navigable waters of the United States, it deals with the
maritime law, applicable to matters that fall within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction (Const. Art. III, § 2;
Nogueira-v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S.128, 138);
and the general authority of the Congress to alter or
revise the maritime law which shall prevail throughout
the country is beyond dispute. 2 In limiting the application of the Act to cases where recovery "through workmen's compensation proceedings may not validly be provided by State law," the Congress evidently had in view
the decisions of this Court with respect to the scope of the
exclusive authority of the national legislature.3 The pro'Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 457, 458; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall.
558, 577; Butler v. Boston & Savannah Steamship Co., 130 U. S.
527, 556, 557; In re Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 14; The Hamilton, 207 U. S.
398, 404; Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 62;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 214, 215; Knickerbocker
Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, 160; Washington v. Dawson, 264
U. S. 219, 227, 228; Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S.375, 386,
388.
Important illustrations of the exercise of this authority are the
Limitation of Liability Act of 1851 (9 Stat. 635; Hartford Accident &
Indemnity Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273 U. S.207, 213-215); the
Seamen's Act of 1915 (38 Stat. 1185; Chelentis v. Luckenbach Steamship Co., 247 U. S. 372, 381, 384); the Ship Mortgage Act of 1920
(41 Stat. 1000; Morse Drydock & Repair Co. v. Northern Star, 271
U. S. 552, 555, 556); and the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, incorporating, in relation to seamen, the Federal Employers' Liability Act
into the maritime law of the United States (41 Stat. 1007; Panama
R. Co. v. Johnson, supra; Engel v. Davenport,271 U. S.33, 35; Panama R. Co. v. Vasquez, 271 U. S.557, 559, 560; Northern Coal Co.
v. Strand, 278 U.S. 142, 147). See U. S. C., Titles 33 and 46.
3 Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.205; Knickerbocker Ice
Co. v. Stewart, 253 U S. 149; Washington v. Dawson, 264 U. S.219;

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

priety of providing by Federal statute for compensation
of employees in such cases had been expressly recognized by this Court,4 and within its sphere the statute
was designed to accomplish the same general purpose as
the workmen's compensation laws of the States.' In deRobins Dry Dock & Repair Co. v. Dahl, 266 U. S. 449. For decisions
since the passage of the Act in question, see Messel v. Foundation Co.,
274 U. S.427; Northern Coal & Dock Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142;
London Guarantee & Accident Co. v. Industrial Commission, 279
U. S. 109, 125; Baizley Iron Works v. Span, 281 U. S. 222.
The application of State Workmen's Compensation Acts has been
sustained where the work of the employee has been deemed to have
no direct relation to navigation or commerce and the operation of the
local law "would work no material prejudice to the essential features
of the general maritime law." Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,257 U. S.
233, 242; Grant Smith-Porter Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 477;
Millers' Indemnity Underwriters v. Braud, 270 U. S. 59, 64; Sultan
Railway & Timber Co. v. Department of Labor, 277 U. S, 135, 137;
Baizley Iron Works v. Span, supra, at pp. 230, 231. See, also, Red
Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109.
4 Washington v. Dawson, 264 U. S.219, 227, where the Court said
"Without doubt Congress has power to alter, amend or revise the
maritime law by statutes of general application embodying its will
and judgment. This power, we think, would permit enactment of
a general employers' liability law or general provisions for compensating injured employees; but it may not be delegated to the several
States."
- The Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, in reporting upon
the proposed measure, said (Sen. Rep. No. 973, 69th Cong., 1st
sess., p. 16):
"The committee deems it unnecessary to comment upon the modern change in the relation between employers and employees establishing systems of conipensation as distinguished from liability.
Nearly every State in the Union has a compensation law through
which employees are compensated for injuries occurring in the course
of their employment without regard to negligence on the part of the
employer or contributory negligence on the part of the employee.
If longshoremen could avail themselves of the benefits of State compensation laws, there would be no occasion for this legislation; but,
unfortunately, they are excluded from these laws by reason of the
character of their employment; and they are not only excluded but

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

fining substantive rights, the Act provides for recovery
in the absence of fault, classifies disabilities resulting
from injuries, fixes the range of compensation in case
of disability or death, and designates the classes of beneficiaries. In view of Federal power to alter and revise
the maritime law, there appears to be no room for objection on constitutional grounds to the creation of these
rights, unless it can be found in the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. But it cannot be said that
either the classifications of the statute or the extent of
the compensation provided are unreasonable. In view
of the difficulties which inhere in the ascertainment of
actual damages, the Congress was. entitled to provide
for the payment of amounts which would reasonably approximate the probable damages. See Chicago, B. & Q.
R. Co. v. Cram, 228 U. S. 70, 84; compare Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340, 348. Liability
without fault is not unknown to the maritime law,6 and,
the Supreme Court has more than once held that Federal legislation
can not, constitutionally, be enacted that will apply State laws to
this occupation. (Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.205;
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Washington v.
Dawson & Co., 264 U. S.219.)"
The House Committee in its report made the following statement
(House Rep. No. 1767, 69th Cong., 2d sess., p. 20):
"The principle of workmen's compensation has become so firmly
established that simple justice would seem to require that this class
of maritime workers should be included in this legislation.
"The bill as amended, therefore, will enable Congress to discharge
its obligation to the maritime workers placed under their jhrisdiction "
by the Constitution of -the United States by providing for them a law
whereby they may receive the benefits of workmen's compensation
and thus afford them the same remedies that have been provided by
legislation for those killed or injured in the course of their employment in nearly every State in the Union."
'See, e. g., The'Osceola, 189 U. S.158, 169; The Iroquois,-194 U. S.
240, 241, 242. In Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Zernecke, 183 U. S.
582, 586, the Court said: "Our jurisprudence affords examples of
legal liability without fault, and the deprivation of property without

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

apart from this fact, considerations are applicable to the
substantive provisions of this legislation, with respect to
the relation of master and servant, similar to those which
this Court has found sufficient to sustain workmen's compensation laws of the States against objections under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. New
York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Ward & Gow
v. Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503; Lower Vein Coal Co. v. Industrial Board, 255 U. S. 144; Madera Sugar Pine Co. v.
IndustrialAccident Comm., 262 U. S. 499, 501, 502; Sheehan Co. v. Shuler, 265 U. S. 371; Dahlstrom Metallic
Door Co. v. IndustrialBoard, 284 U. S. 594. See Nogueira
v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., sapra,at pp. 136, 137.
Second. The objections to the procedural requirements
of the Act relate to the extent of the administrative authority which it confers. The administration of the Act' except as otherwise specifically provided '-was given to
the United States Employees' Compensation Commission, 7 which was authorized to establish compensation districts, appoint deputy commissioners, and make regulations. §§ 39, 40. Claimants must give written notice to
the deputy commissioner and to the employer of the injury or death within thirty days thereafter; the deputy
commissioner may excuse failure to give such notice for
satisfactory reasons. § 12. If the employer contests the
right to compensation, he is to file notice to that effect.
§ 14 (d). A claim for compensation must be filed with
fault being attributable to its owner. The law of deodands was such
an example. The personification of the ship in admiralty law is another." See Holmes, "The Common Law," pp. 26-29; The China,
7 Wall. 53, 67, 68; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 105-108; Homer
Ramsdell Co. v. Compagnie G~ngrale Transatlantique, 182 U. S. 406,
413, 414. As to the basis of general average contribution, see Ralli
v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 394, 395.
' This Commission was created by the Act of September 7, 1916,
c, 458, § 28, 39 Stat. 748; U. S. C., Tit. 5, § 778.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

the deputy commissioner within a. prescribed period, and
it is provided that the deputy commissioner shall have
full authority to hear and determine all questions in respect to the claim. §§ 13, 19 (a). Within ten days after
the claim is filed, the deputy commissioner, in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the Commission, must
notify the employer and any other person who is considered by the deputy commissioner to be an interested
party. The deputy commissioner is required to make, or
cause to be made, such investigations as he deems to be
necessary and upon application of any interested party
must order a hearing, upon notice, at which the claimant
and the employer may present evidence. Employees
claiming compensation must submit to medical examination. § 19. In conducting investigations and hearings,
the deputy commissioner is not bound by common law or
statutory rules of evidence, or by technical or formal rules
of procedure, except as the Act provides, but he is to
proceed in such manner "as to best ascertain the rights of
the parties." § 23 (a). He may issue subpoenas, administer oaths, compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses, the production of documents or other evidence or
the taking of depositions, and may do all things conformable to law which may be necessary to enable him effectively to discharge his duties. Proceedings may be
brought before the appropriate Federal court to punish
for misbehavior or contumacy as in case of contempt. § 27.
Hearings before the deputy commissioner are to be public
and reported stenographically, and the Commission is to
provide by regulation for the preparation of a record.
§ 23 (b). 8 Compensation orders are to be filed in the
office of the deputy commissioner, and copies must be sent
'In the regulations promulgated by the Commission in the form
cf instructions to deputy commissioners, provision was made for findings of fact. Rejpsrt, United States Employees' Compensation Commission, for fiscal year ending June 30, 1930, p. 64. See Howard v.
Monahan, 33 F. (2d) 220.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

to the claimant and employer. § 19. The Act provides
that it shall be presumed, in the absence of substantial
evidence to the contrary, that the claim comes within the
provisions of the Act, that sufficient notice of claim has
been given, that the injury was not occasioned solely by
the intoxication of the injured employee, or by the willful intention of such employee to injure or kill himself or
another. § 20. A compensation order becomes effective
when filed, and unless proceedings are instituted to suspend it or set it aside, it becomes final at the expiration
of thirty days. § 21 (a). If there is a change in conditions, the order may be modified or a new order made.
§ 22. In case of default for thirty days in the payment
of compensation, application may be made to the deputy
commissioner for a supplementary order declaring the
amount in default. Such an order is to be made after
investigation, notice and hearing, as in the case of claims.
Upon filing a certified copy of the supplementary order
with the clerk of the Federal court, as stated, judgment
is to be entered for the amount declared in default, if
such supplementary order "is in accordance with law."
Review of the judgment may be had as in civil suits for
damages at common law and the judgment may be
enforced by writ of execution. § 18.
The Act further provides that if a compensation order
is "not in accordance with law," it "may be suspended
or set aside, in whole or in part, through injunction proceedings, mandatory or otherwise, brought by any party
in interest" against the deputy commissioner making the
order and instituted in the Federal district court for the
judicial district in which the injury occurred.' Payment
is not to be stayed pending such proceedings unless, on
hearing after notice, the court allows the stay on eviIn the District of Columbia, the proceedings are to be instituted
in the Supreme Court of the District.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

dence showing that the employer would otherwise suffer
irreparable damage. § 21 (b). Beneficiaries of awards,
or the deputy commissioner, may apply for enforcement
to the Federal district court and, if the court determines that the order "was made and served in accordance with law," obedience may be compelled by writ of
injunction or other proper process. § 21 (c). 1"
As the claims which are subject to the provisions of
the Act are governed by the maiitime law as established
by the Congress and are within the admiralty jurisdiction, the objection raised by the respondent's pleading
as to the right to a trial by jury under the Seventh
Amendment is unavailing (Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441,
459, 460); and that under the Fourth Amendment is
neither explained nor urged. The other objections as to
procedure invoke the due process clause and the provision as to the judicial power of the United States.
(1) The contention under the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment relates to the determination of
questions of fact. Rulings of the deputy commissioner
upon questions of law are without finality. So far as
"The United States Employees' Compensation Commission estimates that the number of employees who at times are engaged in employments covered by the Act is in excess of 300,000. Report for
fiscal year ending June 30, 1931, p. 66.' The Commission states that
138,788 cases have been closed during the four years that the law has
been in operation. Id., p. 69. During the last fiscal year the injuries reported under the Act numbered 28,861, of which 156 were
'fatal' cases. The total number of cases disposed of during that
year, including those brought forward from the preceding years, was
30,489, of which there were 13,261 'non-fatal' cases which caused

no loss of time, and 4,067 of such cases in which the duration of disability dld not exceed seven days. Compensation payments were
completed in 11,776 cases. Hearings held by deputy commissioners
during the fiscal year number 1,217, of which 905 involved compensation payments. At the end of the fiscal year, there were 102 cases
pending in federal district courts wherein the plaintiffs asked review
of compensation orders. Id., 68-70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

the latter are concerned, full opportunity is afforded for
their determination by the Federal courts through proceedings to suspend or to set aside a compensation order,
§ 21 (b), by the requirement that judgment is to be
entered on a supplementary order declaring default only
in case the order follows the law (, 18), and by the provision that, the issue of injunction or other process in a
proceeding by a beneficiary to compel obedience to a
compensation order is dependent upon a determination
by the court that the order was lawfully made and
served. § 21 (c). Moreover, the statute contains no express limitation attempting to preclude the court, in proceedings to set aside an order as not in accordance with
law, from making its own examination and determination
of facts whenever that is deemed to be necessary to enforce a constitutional right properly asserted. See Ohio
Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287,
289; Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 284, 285;
Prendergast v. New York Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43,
50; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S.
420, 443, 444; Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589,
600. As the statute is to be construed so as to support
rather than to defeat it, no such limitation is to be implied. Panama Railroad Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375,
390.
Apart from cases involving constitutional rights to be
appropriately enforced by proceedings in court, there can
be no doubt that the Act contemplates that, as to questions of fact arising with respect to injuries to employees
within the purview of the Act, the findings of the deputy
commissioner, supported by evidence and within the scope
of his authority, shall be final. To hold otherwise would
be to defeat the obvious purpose of the legislation to furnish a prompt, continuous, expert and inexpensive method
for dealing with a class of questions of fact which are
peculiarly suited to examination and determination by an
administrative agency specially assigned to that task.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

The object is to secure within the prescribed limits of the
employer's liability an immediate investigation and a
sound practical judgment, and the efficacy of the plan
depends upon the finality of the determinations of fact
with respect to the circumstances, nature, extent and consequences of the employee's injuries and the amount of
compensation that should be awarded. And this finality
may also be regarded as extending to the determination
of the question of fact whether the injury " was occasioned
solely by the intoxication of the employee or by the willful
intention of the employee to injure or kill himself or another."
While the exclusion of compensation in such
cases is found in what are called " coverage " provisions
of the Act (§ 3), the question of fact still belongs to the
contemplated routine of administration, for the case is
one of employment within the scope of the Act and the
cause of the injury sustained by the employee as well as
its character and effect must be ascertained in applying
the provisions for compensation. The use of the administrative method for these purposes, assuming due notice,
proper opportunity to be heard, and that findings are
based upon evidence, falls easily within the principle of
the decisions sustaining similar procedure against objections under the due process clauses of the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments."
The statute provides for notice and hearing; and an
award made without proper notice, or suitable opportu"Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 6S5, 695;
Crane v. Hahlo, 258 U. S.142, 147; Federal Trade Comm. v. Curtis
Publishing Co., 260 U. S. 568, 580; Silberschein v. United States, 266
U. S. 221, 225; Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 663;
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 442; Inter-

national Shoe Co. v. Federal Trade Comm., 280 U. S.291, 297; Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U. S.362, 369; Phillips v. Commissioner, 2S3
U. S.589, 600. See, also, Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v.
Glidden, 284 U. S.151; New York CentralR. R.Co. v. White, supra,
at pp. 194, 207, 208; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, supra, at
p. 233.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

nity to be heard, may be attacked and set aside as without validity. The objection is made that, as the deputy
commissioner is authqrized to prosecute such inquiries
as he may consider necessary, the award may be based
wholly or partly upon an ex parte investigation and upon
unknown sources of information, and that the hearing
may be merely a formality. The statute, however, contemplates a public hearing and regulations are to require
"a record of the hearings and other proceedings before
the deputy commissioner." § 23 (b). This implies that
all proceedings by the deputy commissioner upon a particular claim shall be appropriately set forth, and that
whatever facts he may ascertain and their souirces shall
be shown in the record and be open to challenge and opposing evidence. Facts conceivably known to the deputy
commissioner, but not put in evidence so as to permit
scrutiny and contest, will not support a conpensation
order. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 93; Th. Chicago Juncl:on
Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263; United States v. Abilene &
Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 288. An award not supported by evidence in the record is not in accordance with
law. But the fact that the deputy commissioner is not
bound by the rules of evidence which would be applicable
to trials in court or by technical rules of procedure, § 23
(a), does not invalidate the proceeding, provided substantial rights of the parties are not infringed. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44; Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co.,
supra; Spiller v. Atchison, T. .& S. F. Ry. Co., 253 U. S.
117, 131; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co.,
supra; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, supra,
at p. 442.
(2) The eontention based upoii the judicial power of
the United States, as extended "to all cases of admiralty

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

and maritime jurisdiction" (Const. Art. III), presents a
distinct question. In Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land
and Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 284, this Court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Curtis, said: "To avoid
misconstruction upon so grave a subject, we think it
proper to state that we do not consider congress can either
withdraw from judicial cognizance any matter which,
from its nature, is the subject of a suit at the common
law, or in equity, or admiralty; nor, on the other hand,
can it bring under the judicial power a matter which,
from its nature, is not a subject for judicial determination."
The question in the instant case, in this aspect, can be
deemed to relate only to determinations of ,fact. The
reservation of legal questions is to the same court that has
jurisdiction in admiralty, and the mere fact that the court
is not described as such is unimportant. Nor is the provision for injunction proceedings, § 21(b), opcn to objection. The Congress was at liberty to draw upon another system of procedure to equip the court with suitable
and adequate means for enforcing the standards of the
maritime law as defined by the Act. The Genesee Chief,
12 How. 443, 459, 460. Compare PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, supra, at p. 388. By statute and rules, courts of
admiralty may be empowered to grant injunctions, as in
the case of limitation of liability proceedings. Hartford
Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273
U. S. 207, 218. See, also, Marine Transit Corporationv.
Dreyfus, 284 U. S. 263. The Congress did not attempt
to define questions of law, and the generality of the description leaves no doubt of the intention to reserve to the
Federal court full authority to pass upon all matters which
this Court had held to fall within that category. There
is thus no attempt to interfere with, but rather provision
is made to facilitate, the exercise by the court of its jur137818o-32-4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

isdiction to deny effect to any administrative finding
which is without evidence, or' contrary to the indisputable
character of the evidence,' or where the hearing is 'inadequate,' or 'unfair,' or arbitrary in any respect. InterstateCommerce Comm. v. Louisville R. Co., supra, at pp. 91,
92; Tagg Bros. & Moorheadv. United States, supra.
at once
As to determinations of fact, the distinction .is
apparent between cases of private right and those which
arise between the Government and persons subject to
its authority in connection with the performance of the
constitutional functions of the executive or legislative
departments. The Court referred to this distinction in
Murray's Lessee v. Hobolcen Land and Improvement Co.,
supra, pointing out that " there are matters, involving
public rights, which may be presented in such form that
the judicial power is capable of acting on them, and
which are susceptible of judicial determination, but which
Congress may or may not bring within the cognizance
of the courts of the United States, as it may deem
proper." Thus the Congress, in exercising the powers
confided to it, may establish 'legislative' courts (as distinguished from 'constitutional courts in which the judicial power conferred by the Constitution can be deposited') which are to form part of the government of
territories or of the District of Columbia,' or to serve
as special tribunals "to examine and determine various
matters, arising between the government and others,
which from their nature do not require judicial determination and yet are susceptible of it." But "the mode
of determining matters of this class is completely Within
congressional control. Congress may reserve to itself
the power to decide, may delegate that power to executive officers, or may commit it to judicial tribunals." Ex
"2American Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 546; Keller v.
Potomac Electric Power Co., 261 U. S. 428, 442-444; Postum Cereal
Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272 U. S. 693, 700.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U. S. 438, 451. Familiar illustrations of administrative agencies created for the deterruination of such matters are found in connection with
the exercise of the congressional power as to interstate
and foreign commerce, taxation, immigration, the public lands, public health, the facilities of the post office,
pensions and payments to veterans."
The present case does not fall within the categories just
described but is one of private right, that is, of the liability
of one individual to another under the law as defined. But
in cases of that sort' there is no requirement that, in order
to maintain the essential attributes of the judicial power,
all determinations of fact in constitutional courts shall
be made by judges. On the common law side of the Federal courts, the aid of juries is not only deemed appropriate but is required by the Constitution itself. In cases
of equity and admiralty, it is historic practice to call to
the assistance of the courts, without the consent of the
parties, masters and commissioners or assessors, to pass
upon certain classes of questions, as, for example, to take
and state an account or to find the amount of damages.
While the reports of masters and commissioners in such
cases are essentially of an advisory nature, it has not been
the practice to disturb their findings when they are prop14
erly based upon evidence, in the absence of errors of law,
1s Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, supra; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, supra; InternationalShoe Co. v. Federal Trade
Comm., supra; Phillips v. Commissioner, s*pra; United States v. Ju
Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 263; United States v. Babcock, 250 U. S. 328,
331; Burlenning v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 321,
323; Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 109; Houston v.
St. Louis Packing Co., 249 U. S. 479, 484; Passavant v. United States,
148 U. S. 214, 219; Silberschein v. United States, 266 U. S. 221, 225.
"4As to masters in chancery, see Tilghman v. Proctor,125 U. S. 136,
149, 150; Callaghan v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617, 666, 667; Ki'nbcrly v.
Arms, 129 U. S. 512, 523, 524.; Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 636.
As to commissioners in admiralty, see The Cayuga (C. C. A. 6th),
59 Fed. 483, 488; La Bourgogne (C. C. A. 2nd), 144 Fed. 781, 782,

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

and the parties have no right to demand that the court
shall redetermine the facts thus found. In admiralty,
juries were anciently in use not only in criminal cases but
apparently in civil cases also." The Act of February 26,
1845 (c. 20, 5 Stat. 726), purporting to extend the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal district courts to certain cases arising on the Great Lakes, gave the right "to
trial by jury of all facts put in issue in such suits, where
either party shall require it." After the decision in the
case of The Genesee Chief, supra,holding that the Federal
district courts possessed general jurisdiction in admiralty
over the lakes, and navigable waters connecting them,
under the Constitution and the Judiciary Act of 1789
(c. 20, § 9, 1 Stat. pp. 76, 77), this Court regarded the
enabling Act of 1845 as "obsolete and of no effect, with
the exception of the clause which gives to either party the
right of trial by jury when requested." The Eagle, 8
Wall. 15, 25. And this provision, the court said, was
"rather a mode of exercising jurisdiction than any substantial part of it." See R. S. 566, U. S. C., Tit. 28,
§ 770.1 Chief Justice Taney, in delivering the opinion
of the Court in the case of The Genesee Chief, supra,
referring-to this requirement, thus broadly stated the authority of Congress to change the procedure in courts of
admiralty:
783; The North Star (C. C. A. 2nd), 151 Fed. 168, 177; Western
Transit Co. v. Davidson S. S. Co. (C. C. A. 6th), 212 Fed. 696, 701;
P. Stanford Ross, Inc., v. Public Service Corp. (C. C. A. 3d), 42 Fed.
(2d) 79, 80.
14 Chr. Robinson's Admiralty. Reports, p. 74, note; Black Book
of the Admiralty, Twiss' ed., vol. 1, pp. 49, 53, 245; 1 Abbott on
Shipping, 5th Am. ed., pp. 283, 284; 1 Benedict's Admiralty, 5th ed.,

p. 304, note.
"' As to the effect of the verdict of the jury in such cases, see The
Western States, 159 Fed. 354, 358, 359; Sweeting v. The Western
States, 210 U. S. 433; The Nyack, 199 Fed. 383, 389; 1 Benedict's
Admiralty, 5th ed., p. 305.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

"The power of Congress to change the mode of proceeding in this respect in its courts of admiralty, will,
we suppose, hardly be questioned. The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the United States shall
extend to 'all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.' But it does not direct that the court shall proceed
according to ancient and established forms, or shall adopt
any other form or mode of practice. The grant defines
the subjects to which the jurisdiction may be extended
by Congress. But the extent of the power as well as the
mode of proceeding in which that jurisdiction is to be
exercised, like the power and practice in all the other
courts of the United States, are subject to the regulation
of Congress, except where that power is limited by the
terms of the Constitution, or by necessary implication
from its language. In admiralty and maritime cases there
is no such limitation as to the mode of proceeding, and
Congress may therefore in cases of that description, give
either party right of trial by jury, or modify the practice
of the court in any other respect that it deems more conducive to the administration of justice."
It Amay also be noted that while on an appeal in admiralty cases "the facts as well as the law would be subjected to review and retrial," this Court has recognized
the power of the Congress "to limit the effect of an
appeal to a review of the law as applicable to facts
finally determined below." The Francis Wright, 105
U. S.381, 386; The Connemara, 108 U. S.352, 359. Compare Luckenbach S. S. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.533,
536, 537.
In deciding whether the Congress, in enacting the
statute under review, has exceeded the limits of its authority to 'prescribe procedure in cases of injury upon
navigable waters, regard must be had, as in other cases
where constitutional limits are invoked, not to mere matters of form but to the substance of what is required.

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

The statute has a limited application, being confined to
the relation of master and servant, and the method of
determining the questions of fact, which arise in the routine of making compensation awards to employees under
the Act, is necessary to its effective enforcement. The
Act itself, where it applies, establishes the measure of the
employer's liability, thus leaving open for determination
the questions of fact as to the circumstances, nature, extent and consequences of the injuries sustained by the
employee for which compensation is to be made in accordance with the prescribed standards. Findings of fact by
the deputy commiss'oner upon such questions are closely
analogous to the findings of the amount of damages that
are made, according to familiar practice, by commissioners or assessors;. and the reservation of full authority to
the court to deal with matters of law provides for the
appropriate exercise of the judicial function in this class
of cases. For the purposes stated, we are unable to find
any constitutional obstacle to the action of the Congress
in availing itself of a method shown by experience to be
essential in order to apply its standards to the thousands
of cases involved, thus relieving the courts of a most
serious burden while preserving their complete authority
to insure the proper application of the law.
(3) What has been said thus far relates to the determination of claims of employees within the purview of
the Act. A different question is presented where the determinations of fact are fundamental or ' jurisdictional,'1
in the sense that their existence is a condition precedent
to the operation of the statutory scheme. These funda" The term 'jurisdictional,'
although frequently used, suggests
analogies which are not complete when the reference is to administrative officials or bodies. See Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Humboldt Steamship Co., 224 U. S. 474, 484. In relation to administrative agencies, the question in a given case is whether it falls
ivithin the scope of the authority validly conferred.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

mental requirements are that the injury occur upon the
navigable waters of the United States and that the relation of master and servant exist. These conditions are
indispensable to the application of the statute, not only
because the Congress has so provided explicitly (§ 3),
but also because the power of the Congress to enact the
legislation turns upon the existence of these conditions.
In amending and revising the maritime law, 8 the Congress cannot reach beyond the constitutional limits which
are inherent in the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. 9
Unless the injuries to which the Act relates occur upon
the navigable waters of the United States, they fall outside that jurisdiction. " Not only is navigability itself
a question of fact, as waters that are navigable in fact
are navigable in law, 21 but, where navigability is not in
dispute, the locality of the injury, that is, whether it has
occurred upon the navigable waters of the United States,
determines the existence of the congressional power to
create the liability prescribed by the statute.2 Again, it
' This power is distinct from the authority to. regulate interstate
or foreign commerce and is not limited to cases arising in that commerce. The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, 452; The Commerce, 1
Black 574, 578, 579; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 640, 641; Ex parte
Boyer, 109 U. S. 629, 632; In 'e Garnett, 141 U. S. 1, 15, 17; London
Guarantee & Accident Co. v. Industrial Comm., 279 U. S. 109, 124.
"The Belfast, supra; Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, supra; The
Genesee Chief, supra, at p. 459; 1 Benedict's Admiralty, 5th ed.,
§ 32, p. 47.
20 Cleveland Terminal & V. R. Co. v. Cleveland Steamship Co.,
208 U. S. 316; Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, supra, at pp. 59,
60; Industrial Commission v. Nordenholt Corp., 259 U. S. 263, 273;
Washington v. Dawson, supra, at pp. 227, 235; Nogueira v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128, 133, 138.
The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563; United States v. Holt State
Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 56; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S.64, 76, 77;
Arizona v. California,283 U. S. 423, 452.
221ndustrial Commission v. Nordenholt Co., supra; Washington v.
Dawson, supra; Nogueira v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., supra;
1 Benedict's Admiralty, 5th ed., § 29, pp. 41, 42, note.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

cannot be maintained that the Congress has any general
authority to amend the maritime law so as to establish
liability without fault in maritime cases regardless of
'particular circumstances or relations. It is unnecessary
to consider what circumstances or relations might permit the imposition of such a liability by amendment of
the maritime law, but it is manifest that some suitable
selection would be required. In the present instance, the
Congress has imposed liability without fault only where
the relation of master and servant exists in maritime employment and, while we hold that the Congress could do
this, the fact of that relation is the pivot of the statute
and, in the absence of any other justification, underlies
the constitutionality of this enactment. If the person injured was not an employee of the person sought to be
held, or if the injury did not occur upon the navigable
waters of the United States, there is no ground for an
assertion that the person against whom the proceeding.
was directed could constitutionally be subjected, in the
absence of fault upon his part, to the liability which the
statute creates.
In relation to these basic facts, the question is not the
ordinary one as to the propriety of provision for administrative determinations. Nor have we simply the question of due process in relation to notice and hearing. It
is rather a question of the appropriate maintenance of
the Federal judicial power in requiring the observance of
constitutional restrictions. It is the question whether the
Congress may substitute for constitutional courts, in which
the judicial power of the United States is vested, an administrative agency-in this instance a single deputy commissioner 2'-3for the final determination of the existence

of the facts upon which the enforcement of the constitutional rights of the citizen depend. The recognition of
See Report of United States Employees' Compensation Cominission for fiscal year ending June 30, 1931, pp. 108, 109.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

the utility and convenience of administrative agencies for
the investigation and finding of facts within their proper
province, and the support of their authorized action, does
not require the conclusion that there is no limitation of
their use, and that the Congress could completely oust
the courts of all determinations of fact by vesting the
authority to make them with finality in its own instrumentalities or in the Executive Department. That would
be to sap the judicial power as it exists under the Federal
Constitution, and to establish a government of a bureaucratic character alien to our system, wherever fundamental rights depend, as not infrequently they do depend,
upon the facts, and finality as to facts becomes in effect
finality in law.
In this aspect of the question, the irrelevancy of State
statutes and citations from State courts as to the distribution of State powers is apparent. A State may distribute its powers as it sees fit, provided only that it
acts consistently with the essential demands of due process and does not transgress those restrictions of the Federal Constitution which are applicable to State authority. 4 In relation to the Federal government, we have
already noted the inappositeness to the present inquiry of
decisions with respect to determinations of fact, upon
evidence and within the authority conferred, made by administrative agencies which have been created to aid in
the performance of governmental functions and where
the mode of determination is within the control of the
Congress; as, e. g. in the proceedings of the Land Office
pursuant to provisions for the disposition of public lands,
of the authorities of the Post Office in relation to postal
privileges, of the Bureau of Internal Revenue with respect to taxes, and of the Labor Department as to the
' Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210, 225; Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cole, 251 U. S. 54, 56; Missouri ex rel.
Hurwitz v. North, 271 U. S. 40, 42.

OCTOBER TERM. 1931.
Opiinoii of lie Court.

285U.S.

admission and deportation of aliens. Ex parte Bakelite
Corp., supra.- Similar considerations apply to decisions
with respect to determinations of fact by boards and commissions created by the Congress to assist it in its legislative process in governing various transactions subject
to its authority, as 'for example, the rates and practices
of interstate carriers, the legislature thus being able to
apply its standards to a host of instances which it is impracticable to consider and legislate upon directly and the
action being none the less legislative in character because
taken through a subordinate body."- And where administrative bodies have been appropriately created to meet the
exigencies of certain classes of cases and their action is of
a judicial character, the question of the conclusiveness
of their administrative findings of fact generally arises
where the facts are clearly not jurisdictional 2- and the
scope of review as to such facts has been determined by
the applicable legislation. None of the decisions of this
sort touch the question which is presented where the facts
involved are jurisdictional 8 or where the question concerns the proper exercise of the judicial power of the
United States in enforcing constitutional limitations.
Even where the subject lies within the general authority
of the Congress, the propriety of a challenge by judicial
proceedings of the determinations of fact deemed to be
jurisdictional, as underlying the authority of executive
officers, has been recognized. When proceedings are taken
against a person under the military law, and enlistment
is denied, the issue has been tried and determined de novo
upon habeas corpus. In re Grimley, 137 U. S. 147, 154,
22

Supra, niote 13.
Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.

2"See

Co., 284 U. S. 370.
Freund, "Administrative Powers Over Persons and Property,"
§ 154, p. 293.
" Id., § 153, pp. 291-293.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

155. See, also, In re Morrissey, 137 U. S. 157, 158; Givens
v. Zerbst, 255 U. S. 11, 20. While, in the administration
of the public land system, questions of fact are for the
consideration and judgment of the Land Department and
its decision of such questions is conclusive, it is equally
true that if lands "never were public property, or had
previously been disposed of, or if Congress had made io
provision for their sale, or had reserved them,. the department would have no jurisdiction to transfer them." This
Court has held that "matters of this kind, disclosing a
want of jurisdiction, may be considered by a court of law.
In such cases the objection to the patent reaches beyond
the action of the special tribunal, and goes to the existence
of a subject upon which it was competent to act." Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 641. In-such a case, the
invalidity of the patent may be shown in a collateral proceeding. Polk v. Wendell, 9 Cranch 87; Pattersonv. Winn,
11 Wheat. 380; Minter v. Crommelin, 18 How. 87; Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660, 675; Noble v. Union River
Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165, 174. The question whether
a publication is a 'book' or a 'periodical' has been reviewed upon the evidence received in a suit brought to
restrain the Postmaster General from acting beyond his
authority in excluding the publication from carriage as
second class mail matter. Smith v. Hitchcock, 34 App.
D. C., 521, 530-533; 226 U. S. 54, 59Y.
Where the doctrine of personal liability of an officer for acting
without jurisdiction is applied, courts have received evidence to show
the jurisdictional defect. Thus in Miller v. Horton, 152 Mass. 540;
126 N. E. 100, an action was brought against the members of a town
board of health who had killed a horse in obedience to an order of
Ihe commissioners on contagious diseases among domestic animals,
acting under the alleged authority of the state legislature. The order
recited that the animal had been examined and was adjudged to have
the glanders. The judge before whom the case was tried "found the
horse had not the glanders" but declined to rule against the defendants. The Supreme Judicial Court sustained exceptions, holding that

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285U.S.

In cases brought to enforce constitutional rights, the
judicial power of the United States necessarily extends
to the independent determination of all questions, both
of fact and law, necessary to the performance of that
supreme function. The case of confiscation is illustrative, the ultimate conclusion almost invariably depending
upon the decisions of questions of fact. This court has
held the owner to. be entitled to "a fair opportunity fbr
submitting that issue to a jddicial tribunal for determination upon its own independent judgment as to both law
and facts." Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, supra. See, also, Prendergast v. New York Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43, 50; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v.
United States, supra; Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S.
589, 600. Jurisdiction in the Executive to order deportation exists" only if the person arrested is an alien, and
while, if there were jurisdiction, the findings of fact of
the Executive Department would be conclusive, the claim
of citizenship "is a denial of an essential jurisdictional
fact" both in the statutory and the constitutional sense,
and a writ of habeas corpus will issue "to determine the
status." Persons claiming to be citizens of the United
States "are entitled to a judicial determination of their
claims," said this Court in Ng Fung Ho v. White, supra
(259 U. S., at p. 285), and in that case the cause was remanded to the Federal District Court "for trial in that
court of the question of citizenship."
In the present instance, the argument that the' Congress
has constituted the deputy commissioner' a fact-finding
tribur l is unavailing, as the contention makes the untenable assumpti.n that the constitutional courts may be
"The fact as to the horse having the disease was open to investigation in the kresent action, and on the finding that the horse did not

have it, the plaintiff was entitled to a ruling that the defendants had
failed to make out their justification." Id., p. 548. See, also, Pearson
v. Zehr, 138 Ill. 48, 51, 52; 29 N. E. 854.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

deprived in all cases of the determination of facts upon
evidence even though a constitutional right may be involved. Reference is also made to the power of the Congress to change the procedure in courts of admiralty, a
power to which we have alluded in dealing with the function of the deputy commissioner in passing upon the compensation claims of employees. But when fundamental
rights are in question, this Court has repeatedly emphasized "the difference in security of judicial over administrative action." Ng Fung Ho v. White, supra. Even
where issues of fact are tried by juries in the Federal
courts, such trials are under the constant superintendence
of the trial judge. In a trial by jury in a Federal court
the judge is "not a mere moderator" but "is the governor of the trial" for the purpose of assuring its proper
conduct as well as of determining questions of law. Herron v. Southern Pacific Co., 283 U. S. 91, 95. In the Federal courts, trial by jury "is a trial by a jury of twelve
men, in the presence and under the superintendence of a
judge empowered to instruct them on the law and to advise them on the facts, and (except on acquittal of a criminal charge) to set aside their verdict if in his opinion it is
against the law or the evidence." Capital Traction Co. v.
Hof, 174 U. S. 1, 13, 14. Where testimony in an equity
cause is not taken before the court, the proceeding is still
constantly subject to the court's control. And while the
practice of obtaining the assistance of masters in chancery
and commissioners in admiralty may be regarded, as we
have pointed out, as furnishing a certain analogy in relation to the normal authority of the deputy commissioner
in making what is virtually an assessment of damages, the
proceedings of such masters and commissioners are always
subject to the direction of the court and their reports are
essentially advisory, a distinction of controlling importance when questions of a fundamental character are in
issue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U. S.

When the validity of an act of the Congress is drawn
in question, and even if a serious doubt of constitutionality is raised, it is a cardinal principle that this Court
will first ascertain whether a construction of the statute
is fairly possible by which the question may be avoided."0
We are of the opinion that such a construction is permissible and should be adopted in the instant case. The
Congress has not expressly provided that the determinations by the deputy commissioner of the fundamental or,
jurisdictiorkal facts as to the locality of the injury and
the existence of the relation of master and servant shall
be final. The finality of such determinations of the deputy "commisioner is predicated primarily upon the provision, § 19 (a), that he "shall have full power and
authority to hear and determine all questions in respect
of such claim." But "such claim" is the claim for compensation under the Act and by its explicit provisions
is that of an "employee," as defined in the Act, against
his "employer."
The fact of employment is an essential condition precedent to the right to make the claim.
The other provision upon which the argument rests is
that which authorizes the Federal court to set aside a
compensation order if it is "not in accordance with
law.". § 21 (b). In the absence of any provision as to the
finality of the determination by the deputy commissioner
of the jurisdictional fact of employment, the statute is
open to the construction that the court in determining
whether a compensation order is in accordance with law
may determine the fact of employment which underlies
the operation of the statute. And, to remove the question as to validity, we think that the statute should be
so construed.,' Further, the Act expressly requires that
Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, supra, at
R. Co. v. Boone, 270 U. S. 466, 471, 472;
Co. v. United States, 275 U. S. 331, 346;
U. S. J42, 148; Lucas v. Alexander, 279 U.

p. 390; Missouri Pacific
Richmond Screw Anchor
Blodgett v. Holden, 275
S. 673, 577.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

Opinion of the Court.

if any of its provisions is found to be unconstitutional,
"or the applicability thcreof to any person or circumstances " is held invalid, the validity of the remainder
of the Act and " the applicability of its provisions to other
persons and circumstances" shall not be affected. § 56.
We think that this requirement clearly evidences the
intention of the Congress not only that an exepress provision found to be unconstitutional should be disregarded
without disturbing the remainder of the statute, but also
that any implication from the terms of the Act which
would render them invalid should not be indulged. This
provision also gives assurance that there is no violation
of the purpose of the Congress in sustaining the determinations of fact of the deputy commissioner where he
acts within his authority in passing upon compensation
claims while denying finality to his conclusions as to the
jurisdictional facts upon which the valid application of
the statute depends.
Assuming that the Federal court may determine for
itself the existence of these fundamental or jurisdictional
facts, we come to the question,-Upon what record is the
determination to be made? There is no provision of
the statute which seeks to confine the court in such a
case to the record before the deputy commissioner or to
the evidence which he has taken. The remedy which the
statute makes available is not by an appeal or by a writ
of certiorari for a review of his determination upon the
record before him. The remedy is "through injunction
proceedings, mandatory or otherwise." § 21 (b). The
question in the instant case is not whether the deputy.
commissioner has acted improperly or arbitrarily as shown
by the record of his proceedings in the course of administration in cases contemplated by the statute, but whether
he has acted in a case to which the statute is inapplicable.
By providing for injunction proceedings, the Congress
evidently contemplated a suit as in equity, and in such

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
Opinion of the Court.

285 U.S.

a suit the complainant would have full opportunity to
plead and prove either that the injury did not occur upon
the navigable waters of the United States or that the relation of master and servant did not exist, and hence that
the case lay outside the purview of the statute. As the
question is one of the constitutional authority of the
deputy commissioner as- an administrative agency, the
court is under no obligation to give weight to his proceedings pending the determination of that question. If the
court finds that the facts existed which gave the deputy
commissioner jurisdiction to pass upon the claim for compensation, the injunction will be denied in so far as these
fundamental questions are concerned; if, on the contrary,
the court is satisfied that the deputy commissioner had
no jurisdiction of. the proceedings before him, that determination will deprive them of their effectiveness for any
purpose. We think that the essential independence of
the exercise of the judicial power of the United States in
the enforcement of constitutional rights requires that the
Federal court should determine such an issue upon its
own record and the facts elicited before it.
The argument is made that there are other facts besides
the locality of the injury and the fact of employment
which condition the action of the deputy commissioner.
That contention in any aspect could not avail to change
the result in the instant case. But we think that there
is a clear distinction between cases where the locality of
the injury takes the case out of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, or where the fact of employment being
absent there is lacking under this statute any basis for
the imposition of liability without fault, and those cases
which fall within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
and where the relation of master and servant in maritime
employment exists. It. is in the latter field that the provisions for compensation apply and that, for the reasons
stated in the earlier part of this opinion, the determina-

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

tion of the facts relating to the circumstances of the injuries received, as well as their nature and consequences,
may appropriately be subjected to the scheme of administration for which the Act provides.
It cannot be regarded as an impairment of the intended
efficiency of afnadministrative agency that it is confined
to its proper sphere, but it may be observed that the
instances which permit of a challenge to the application
of the statute, upon the grounds wehave stated, appear
to be few. Out of the many thousands of cases which
have been brought before the deputy commissioners
throughout the country, a review by the courts has been
sought in only a small number,"1 and an inconsiderable
proportion of these appear to have involved the question
whether the injury occurred within the martime jurisdiction or whether the relation of employment existed.
We are of the opinion that the District Court did not
err in permitting a trial de novo on the issue of employment. Upon that issue the witnesses who had testified
before the deputy commissioner :and other witnesses were
heard by the District Court. The writ of certiorari was
not granted to review the particular facts but to pass upon
the question of principle. With respect to the facts, the
two courts below are in accord, and we find no reason to
disturb their decision.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

dissenting.

Knudsen filed a claim against Benson under § 19 (a)
of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, March 4, 1927, c. 509, 44 Stat. 1424. Benson's
answer denied, among other things, that the relation of
employer and employee existed between him and the
claimant. The evidence introduced before the deputy
3' Supra, note 10.
137818°-32----5

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

commissioner, which occupies 78 pages of the printed record, was directed largely to that issue and was conflicting.
The deputy commissioner found that the claimant was in
Benson's employ at the time of the injury, and filed an
order for compensation under § 21 (a). Benson brought
this proceeding under § 21 (b) to set aside the order. The
district judge transferred- the suit to the admiralty side of
the court and held a trial de novo, refusing to consider
upon any aspect of the case the record before the deputy
commissioner. On the evidence introduced in court, he
found that the relation of employer and employee did not
exist, and entered a decree setting aside the compensation
order. 33 F. (2d) 137; 38 F. (2d) 306. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. 45 F. (2d) 66.
This Court granted certiorari. 283 U. S. 814. In my
opinion, the decree should be reversed, because Congress
did not authorize a trial de novo.
The primary question for consideration is not whether
Congress provided, or validly could provide, that determinations of fact by the deputy oommissioner should be
conclusive upon the district court. The question is:
Upon what record shall the district court's review of the
order of the deputy commissioner be based? The courts
below held that the respondent was entitled to a trial de
novo; that all the evidence introduced before the deputy
commissioner should go for naught; and that respondent
should have the privilege of presenting new, and even
entirely different, evidence in the district court. Unless
that holding was correct the judgment below obviously
cannot be affirmed.
First. The initial question is one of construction of
the Longshoremen's Act. The Act does not in terms
declare whether there may be a trial de novo either as to
the issue whether the relation of employer and employee
existed at the time of the injury, or as to any other issue,
tried or triable, before the deputy commissioner. It provides, by § 19 (a), "that the deputy commissioner shall

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

have full power and authority to hear and determine all
questions in respect of" a claim; by § 21 (a) that the
compensation order made by the deputy commissioner
"shall become effective" when filed in his office, and
"unless proceedings for the suspension or setting aside
of such order are instituted as provided in subdivision
(b) of this section, shall become final..."; and
by § 21 (b) that "If not in accordance with law, a compensation order may be. suspended or set aside, in whole
or in part, through injunction proceedings . . . instituted in the Federal district court. . ....
The phrase in § 21 (b) providing that the order may
be set aside." if not in accordance with law" was adopted
from the statutory provision, enacted by the same Congress, for review by the Circuit Courts of Appeals of
decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals.1 This Court has
settled that the phrase as used in the tax statute means
a review upon the record made before the Board. Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 600. The Compensation Commission has consistently construed the Longshoremen's Act as providing for finality of the deputy
commissioners' findings on all questions of fact;2 and care
'Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 110: "Sec. 1003. (a) The Circuit
Courts of Appeals and the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia shall have exclusive jurisdiction to review the decisions of the
Board....
"(b) Upon such review, such courts shall have power to affirm or,
if the dccision of the Board is not in accordance with law, to modify
or to reverse the decision of the Board, with or without remanding
the case for a rehearing, as justice may require."
'This opinion was expressed in regulations promulgated by the
Commission, under authority conferred by § 39 (a), in the form of
instructions to deputy commissioners, dated September 28, 1927;
and it was repeated in the Commission's report at the close of the
first year of its administration of the Act. Report of United States
Employees' Compensation Commission, for fiscal year ending June
30, 1928, p. 33. See also id., June 30, 1929, p. 77; id., June 30, 1930,
pp. 63-64; id., June 30, 1931, p. 71. The instructions to deputy

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285U.S.

has been taken to provide for formal hearings appropriate to that intention. Compare Brown v. United States,
113 U. S. 568, 571; Mason v. Routzahn, 275 U. S.-175,
178. The lower federal courts, except in the case at bar,
have uniformly construed the Act as denying a, trial de
novo of any issue determined by the deputy commissioner; have held that, in respect to those issues, the review afforded must be upon the record made before the
deputy commissioner; and that the deputy commissioner's findings of fact must be accepted as conclusive if
supported by evidence, unless there was some' irregularity in the proceeding before him.' Nearly all .the state
commissioners, elaborated December 10, 1927, and May 15, 1928, required that the record of proceedings and findings of fact be prepared,
and the proceedings be conducted, in consonance with this view of
the law.
'The question of judicial review under the Act has been passed
upon by the First, Second, Third, Fourth and Ninth Circuit Courts
of Appeals, as well as the Fifth; by a district court in the Sixth
Circuit; and by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
under the Act of May 17, 1928, c. 612, 45 Stat. 600. PocahontasFuel
Co. v. Monahan, 41 F. (2d) 48, 49 (C. C. A. 1st), aff'g 34 F. (2d)
549, 551, [1929] A. M. C. 1598 (D. Me.); Joyce v. Deputy Commissioner, 33 F. (2d) 218, 219 (D. Me.); Jarka Corp. v. Monahan,
48 F. (2d) 283, 284 (D. Mass.); Booth v. Monahan, 56 F. .(2d) 168
(D. Me.); Wilson & Co., Inc. v. Locke, 50 F. (2d) 81, 82 (C. C. A.
2d); Travelers Insurance Co. v..Locke, 56 F. (2d) 443 (S.D,N. Y.);
Calabrese v. Locke, 56 F. (2d) 458 (S.D. N. Y.); W. J. McCahan
Sugar Refining & Molasses Co. v. Norton, 43 F. (2d) 505, 506 (C. C.
A. 3d), aff'g 34 F. (2d) 499, [1929] A. M. C. 1269 (E. D. Pa.);
Independent Pier Co. v. Norton (C. C. A. 3d), 54 F. (2d) 734;
Baltimore & CarolinaS. S. Co. v. Norton, 40 F. (2d) 271, 272 (E.
D. Pa.); Merchants' & Miners' Transp. Co. v. Norton, 32 F. (2d)
513, 515 (E. D. Pa.); Jarka Corp. v. Norton, 56 F. (2d) 287 (E. D.
Pa.); Frank Marra Co. v. Norton, 56 F. (2d) 246 (E.D. Pa.);
Wheeling Corrugating Co. v. McManigal, 41 F. (2d) 593, 594, 595
(C. C. A. 4th); Obrecht-Lynch Corp. v. Clark, 30 F. (2d) 144, 146
(D. Md.); Keyway Stevedoring Co. v. Clark, 43 F. (2d) 983 (D.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

69

J., dissenting.

courts have construed the state workmen's compensation laws, as limiting the judicial review to matters of
law.' Provisions in other federal statutes, similar to
Md.); Kranski v. Atlantic Coast Shipping Co., 56 F. (2d) 166 (D.
Md.) ;'ChesapeakeShip Ceiling Co. V. Clark (D. Md.), decided May
22, 1930 [oral opinion]; Goble v. Clark, 56 F. (2d) .170 (D. Md.);
Michigan Transit Corp* v. Brown, 56 F. (2d) 200 (W. D. Mich.);
Northwestern Stevedoring Co. v. Marshall, 41 F. (2d) 28, 29 (C. C.
A. 9th); Gunther v. Compensation Commission, 41f F. (2d) 151, 153
(C. C. A. 9th); Grays Harbor Stevedore Co. v. Marshall, 36 F. (2d)
814, 815 (W. D. Wash.); Zurich General Accident & Liability
Ins. Co. v. Marshall, 42 F. (2d) 1010, 1011 .W. D. Wash.);
Todd Dry Docks, Inc. v. Marshall, 49 F. (2d) 621, 629 (W. D.
Wash.); Grays Harbor Stevedore Co. v. Marshall, 36 F. (2d) 814
(W. D. Wash.); Rothschild & Co. v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d) 415 (W. D.
Wash.), reversed on other grounds, 44 F. (2d) 546 (C. C. A. 9th);
Lea Mathew Shipping Corp. v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d) 860 (W. D.
Wash.); Griffiths & Sprague Stevedoring Co. v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d)
665- (W.D. Wash.); W. R. Grace & Co. v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d) 441
(W. D. Wash.); Nelson v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d) 654 (W. D. Wash.);
Grant v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d) 654 (W. D. Wash.); Zurich General
Accident & Liability Co. v. Marshall, 56 F. (2d) 652 (W. D. Wash.);
Ocean Accident & Guarantee Corp. v. Solberg, 56 F. (2d) 607 (W. D.
Wash.); compare Lake Washington Shipyards v. Brueggeman, 56 F.
(2d) 665 (W. D. Wash.); New Amsterdam Casualty Co. v. Hoage,
46 F. (2d) 837 (Ct. of App. D. C.); Hoage v. Murch Bros. Const.
Co., 50 F. (2d) 983, 984 (Ct. of App. D. C.). See also the following
decisions by district courts in the Fifth Circuit: Showers v. Crowell,
46 F. (2d) 361 (W. D. La.);. Howard v. Monahan, 31 F. (2d) 480,
481, 33 F. (2d) 220, 221 (S.D. Tex.). Compare T. J. Moss Tie Co.
v. Tanner, 44 F. (2d) 928 (C. C. A 5th); Houston Ship Channel
Stevedoring Co. v. Sheppeard, 57 F. (2d) 259, [1931] A. M. C. 1605
(S. D. Tex.).
'The Court has been7 referred to no case arising under the state
workmen's compensation laws recognizing a right to trial de novo in
court. Numerous decisions declare administrative findings of fact
to be conclusive. The following decisions all dealt with controversies
concerning the existence of a relation of employment. Hillen v. Accident Commission, 199 Cal. 577,580; 250 Pac. 570; York JunctionTransfer & Storage Co. v. Accident Commissioners, 202 Cal. 517, 521; 261

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285U.S.

those here in question, creating various administrative
tribunals, have likewise been treated as not conferring
the right to a judicial trial de novo.'
Pae. 704; Index Mines Corporationv. Industrial Commission, 82 Colo.
272, 275; 259 Pac. 1036; Oceon Accident & Guarantee Corp. v. Wilson, 36 Ga. App. 784; 138 S. E. 246; Taylor v. Blackwell Lumber
Co., 37 Idaho 707, 721; 218 Pac. 356; Cinofsky v. Industrial Commission, 290 Ill. 521, 525; 125 N. E. 286; Franklin Coal Co. v. Indlustrial Commission, 296 Ill. 329, 334; 129 N. E. 811; A. E. Norris
Coal Co. v. Jackson, 80 Ind. App. 423, 425; 141 N. E. 227; Murphy
v. Shipley, 200 Iowa 857, 859; 205 N. W. 497; Churchill's Case., 265
Mass. 117, 119; 164 N. E. 68; Hill's Case, 268 Mass. 491, 493; 167
N. E. 914; Matter of Dale v. Saunders Brothers, 218 N. Y. 59, 63;
112 N. E. 571; Federal Mining & Smelting Co. v. Thomas, 99 Okla.
24, 26; 225 Pac. 967; Oklahoma Pipe Line Co. v. Lindsey, 113 Okla.
296, 298; 241 Pac. 1092; Belmorte v. Connor, 263 Pa. 470, 472; 106
AtI. 787.
(a) Interstate Commerce Commission: Act of June 18, 1910, c.309,
§ 1, 36 Stat. 539; see Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Louisville
& Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 92; United States v. Louisville
& Nashville R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320, 321; Louisville & Nashville
R.Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 463, 466, and other cases collected
in I. L. Sharfman, "The Interstate Commerce Commission II," pp.
384-393, 417 et seq.; Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 13, 36 Stat. 539,
555; Act of March 1, 1913, c.92, 37 Stat. 701, 703. See Tagg Bros.
& Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 444n.
(b) Federal Trade Commission: Act of September 26, 1914, c. 311,
§ 5, 38 Stat. 717, 719-20; see Federal Trade Comm. v. Curtis Publishing Co., 260 U. S.568, 579, 580; Federal Trade Comm. v. Pacific
States Paper Trade Assn., 273 U. S.52, 63; Arkansas Wholesale Grocer4s' Assn. v. Federal Trade Comm., 18 F. (2d) 866, 870, 871; Gregory
Hankin, "Conclusiveness of the Federal Trade Commission's Findings as to Facts," 23 Mich. L. Rev. 233, 262-67; Act of October 15,
1914, c. 323, § 11, 38 Stat. 730, 735 (applicable also in appropriate
cases .to Interstate Commerce Commission and Federal Reserve
Board); see Federal Trade Comm. v. Curtis Publishing Co., supra;
InternationalShoe Co. v. Federal Trade Comm., 280 U.S. 291, 297.
(c) Federal Power Commission: Act of June 10, 1920, c.285, § 20,
41 Stat. 1063, 1074.
(d) United States Shipping Board: Act of September 7, 1916, c.
451; §§ 29, 31, 39 Stat. 728, 737, 738; see Isthmian Steamship Co. v.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

The safeguards with which Congress has surrounded
the proceedings before the deputy commissioner would
be without meaning if those proceedings were to serve
merely as an inquiry preliminary to a contest in the
courts.' Specific provisions of the Longshoremen's Act
make clear that it was the aim of Congress to expedite
the relief afforded. With a view to obviating the delays
incident to judicial proceedings the Act substitutes an
administrative tribunal for the court; and, besides providing for notice and opportunity to be heard, endows
the proceedings before the deputy commissioner with the
customary incidents of a, judicial hearing. It prescribes
that the parties in interest may be represented by counsel, § 19 (d); that the attendance of witnesses and the
United States (S. D. N. Y.), 53 F. (2d) 251; compare U. S. Navigation Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S.474.
(e) Secretary of Agriculture: Act of August 15, 1921, c. 64, §§ 315,
316, 42 Stat. 159, 168; see Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States,
280 U. S.420, 443, 444; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.495, 512; Act
of August 15, 1921, c. 64, § 204,-42 Stat. 159, 162; Act of June 10,
1930, c. 430, §§ 10, 11, 46 Stat. 531, 535.
(f) Board of Tax Appeals: Act of February 26,. 1926, c. 27,
§ 1003 (a), 44 Stat. 9, 110; see Phillips v. Conmissioner, 283 U. S.
589, 600.
(g) Grain Futures Commission: Act of September 21, 1922, c. 369,
§ 6 (b), 42 Stat. 998, 1002.
(h) District of Columbia Rent Commission: Act of October 22,
1919, c. 80, Title II, § 108, 41 Stat. 297, 301; see Block v. Hirsh,
256 U. S.135, 158; Kiligore V. Zinkhan, 274 Fed. 140, 142.
InI instances in which Congress intended to permit the introduction
of additional evidence in the district court it has so provided in express terms. See, e. g., Act of February 18, 1922, c. 57, § 2, 42 Stat.
388, 389. Compare the provision for review of reparation orders of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309,
313, 36 Stat. 539, 554, and of orders for the payment .of money by the
Shipping Board. Act of September 7, 1916, c. 451, § 30, 39 Stat.
728, 737.
'Compare Freund, "Administrative Powers Over Persons and Property," p. 279.

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

production of documents may be compelled, § 27 (a);
that the hearings shall be public, and that they shall
be stenographically reported, § 23 (b); that there shall
be made " a record of the hearings and other proceedings
before the deputy commissioners," § 23 (b); "that the
deputy commissioner shall have full power and authority
to hear and determine all questions in respect of" a claim,
§ 19 (a); and that his order shall become final after 30
days, unless a proceeding is filed under § 21 (b) charging
that it is "not in accordance with law." Procedure of
this character, instead of expediting relief, would entail
useless expense and delay if the proceedings before the
deputy commissioner were to be repeated in court, and
the case tried from the beginning, at the option of either
party. The conclusion that Congress did not so intend is
confirmed by reference to the legislative history of the
Act.7 Compare Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S.
470, 490.
'Two bills providing workmen's compensation for longshoremen

and harbor workers were before the Congress at the same time.
H. R. 9498, which was first reported favorably to the House, declared
in terms, §§ 22, 24, that "the decision of the deputy commissioner
shall be final as to all questions of fact and except as provided in section 24 as to all questions of law." This bill was abandoned by the
House in favor of S. 3170, in order that some legislation on the subject, under what was regarded as an emergency, might be passed at
that session. H. D., 69th Cong., 1st Sess., ser. 16, pt. 2, pp. 139-141.
Although the differences between the two bills were minutely examined in the hearings before the House Committee on the Judiciary,
no reference was made to any change in the provisions for review of
compensation orders; but on the contrary it was affirmatively stated
that the Senate bill likewise enacted administrative finality upon questions of fact. Id., pt. 2, p. 200. The same statement was made in
the Senate hearings. Id., pt. 1, pp. 53, 66. The bill was reported to
the House as having been amended to "conform substantially" to the
bill theretofore reported. H. Rep., No. 1767, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.
Both in this report and in the brief 'debates in both houses, the bill
was described as designed to prevent the delay and injustice incident

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

Second. Nothing in the statute warrants the construction that the right to a trial de novo which' Congyess has

concededly denied as to most i~sues of fact determined by
the deputy commissioner has been granted in respect to
the issue of the existence of the employer-employee relation. The language which is held sufficient to foreclose the
right to such a trial on some issues forecloses it as to all.
Whether the peculiar relation which the fact of employment is asserted to bear to the scheme of the statute and
to the constitutional authority under which it was passed,
might conceivably have induced Congress to provide a
special method of review upon that question, it is not
necessary to inquire. For Congress expressly declared
its intention to put, for purposes of review, all the issues
of fact on the same basis, by conferring upon the deputy
commissioner "full power to hear and determine all questions in respect of such claim," subject only to the power
of the court to set aside his order "if not in accordance
with law."
The suggestion that" such claim" may be construed
to mean only a claim within the purview of the Act seems
to me without substance. Logically applied, the suggestion would leave the deputy commissioner powerless to
hear or determine any issue of asserted non-liability under
the Act. For non-existence of the employer-employee
relation is only one of many grounds of non-liability.
Thus, there is no liability if the injury was occasioned
solely by the intoxication of the employee; or if the injury was due to the wilful intention of the employee to
to litigation, and as affording to maritime workers the same remedies
as those provided in state workmen's compensation laws. See 67
Cong. Rec. 10614; 68 Cong. Rec. 5410-5414, 5908. 'The state workmen's compensation statutes have, almost universally, been construed
to provide for final administrative determination of questions of fact,
including the fact of the existence of an employment. See note 4,
supra.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U. S.

iIjure or kill himself or another; or if it did not arise
"out of or in the course of employment "; or if the employer was not engaged in maritime employment in whole
or in part; or if the injured person was the employee of
a subcontractor who has secured payment of compensation; or if the proceeding is brought against the wrong
person as employer; or if the disability or death is that
of a master or a member of the crew of any vessel; or if
it ,is that of a person engaged by the master to load or
unload or repair any small vessel under eighteen tons
net; or if it is that of an officer or employee of the United
States or any agency thereof; or if it is that of an officer
or employee of any State, or foreign government, or any
political subdivision thereof; or if recovery for the disability or death through workmen's compensation proceedings may be validly provided by state law. And obviously there is no liability if there was in fact neither
disability nor death. It is not reasonable to suppose that
Congress intended to set up a fact-finding tribunal of
first instance, shorn of power to find a portion of the
facts required for any decision of the case; or that in
enacting legislation designed to withdraw from litigation
the great bulk of maritime accidents, it contemplated a
procedure whereby the same facts must be twice litigated
before a longshoreman could be assured the benefits of
compensation.
The circumstance that Congress provided, in § 21 (b),
for review of orders of the deputy commissioner by injunction proceedings is urged as indicative of an intention that in such proceedings the complainant should have
full opportunity to plead and prove any facts showing
that the case lay outside the purview of the statute. But
by this reasoning, again, many other questions besides
those referred to by the Court would be open to retrial
upon new, and different, evidence. The simple answer
is that on bills in equity to set aside orders of a federal

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS, J.,

dissenting.

administrative board there is no trial de novo of issues of
fact determined by that tribunal. As stated in Tagg
Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 443,
concerning orders of the Secretary of Agriculture under
the Packers and Stockyards Act:
"A proceeding under § 316 of the Packers and Stockyards
Act is a judicial review, not a trial de novo. The
validity
of an order of the Secretary, like that of
an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, must be determined upon the record of the proceedings before himsave as there may be an exception of issues presenting
claims of constitutional right, a matter which need not
be considered or decided now." 8
In the review of the quasi-judicial decisions of these
federal administrative tribunals the bill in equity serves
the purpose which at common law, and under the pracby writs of certice of many of the States, is performed
tiorari.' It presents to the reviewing court the record of
the proceedings before the administrative tribunal in
order that determination may be made, among other
things, whether the authority conferred has been properly exercised.'" Neither upon bill in equity in the fed,'Congress has incorporated by reference the provisions for review
of orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission in authorizing
judicial review of certain orders of the Federal Power Commission
and the Shipping Board, as it did in the Packers and Stockyards Act.
See note 5, supra.
'In People ex rel. New York & Queens Gas Co. v. .McCall, 219
N. Y. 84, 88, 90; 113 N. E. 795, it was held that the scope of the
review on certiorari of an order of the Public Service Commission was
the same as that of the federal court on bill in equity of the orders of
the Interstate Commerce Commission as declared in Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 470. Compare
Vanfleet, "Collateral Attack on Judicial Proceedings," §§ 2, 3.
" Certiorari is the historic writ for determining whether the action
of an inferior tribunal has been taken wi"iin its jurisdiction; and it
has sometimes been held that the writ lies only to determine this

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting

285 U.S.

eral courts nor writ of certiorari in the States is it the
practice to permit fresh evidence to be offered in the reviewing court. There is no foundation for the suggestion
that Congress intended to provide otherwise in the Longshoremen's Act.
Third. It is said that the provision for a trial de novo
of the existence of the employer-employee relation should
be read into the Act in order to avoid a serious constitutional doubt. It is true that where a statute is equally
susceptible of two constructions, under one of which it
is clearly valid and under the other of which it may be
unconstitutional, the court will adopt the former construction. Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252, 269; Knights
Templars' Indemnity Co. v. Jarman, 187 U. S. 197, 205;
Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118, 122; Missouri
PacificR. Co. v. Boone, 270 U. S. 466, 471, 472. But this
Act is not equally susceptible to two constructions. The
court may not, in order to avoid holding a statute unconstitutional, engraft upon it an exception or other provision. Butts v. Merchants .& Miners Transportation Co.,
230 U. S. 126, 133; The Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463, 500-502; Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 99;
United States v. Fox, 95 U. S. 670, 672, 673; United States
question. Compare Jackson, v. People, 9 Mich. 111. But, although
there is considerable divergence in the practice of the various States
as to the scope of the review, the proceeding, apart from extraordinary statutory provisions, ib universally upon the record and the evidence before the inferior tribunal, and not a trial de novo. Fore v.
Fore, 44 Ala. 478, 484; Los Angeles v. Young, 118 Cal. 295, 298;
50 Pac. 534; Great Western Power Co. v. Pillsbury, 170 Cal. 180,
185, 186; 149 Pac. 35; Uphoff v. Industrial Board, 271 Ill. 312; 111
N. E. 128; Tiedt v. Carstensen,'61 Iowa 334, 336; 16 N. W. 214;
Lord v. County Commissioners,, 105 Maine 556, 561; 75 Atl. 126;
Jackson ir. People, 9 Mich. 111, 119, 120; Wait v. Krewson, 59 N. J. L.
71, 75; 35 Atl. 742; Milwaukee Western Fuel Co. v. Industrial Commission, 159 Wis. 635, 641, 642; 150 N. W. 998. It was so at common
law. See Freund, "Administrative Powers Over Persons and Proporty," pp. 267-269.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 221. Compare Illinois Central R.
Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514, 529; Celia Conmission
Co. v. Bohlinger, 147 Fed. 419, 423, 424. Neither may
it do so to avoid having to resolve a constitutional doubt.
To hold that Congress conferred the right to a trial de
novo on the issue of the employer-employee relation seems
to me a remaking of the statute and not a construction
of it.
Fourth. Trial de novo of the issue of the existence of
the employer-employee relation is not required by the due
process clause. That clause ordinarily does not even require that parties-shall be permitted to have a judicial
tribunal pass upon the weight 6f the evidence introduced
before the administrative body. See Dahlstrom Metallic
Door Co. v. IndustrialBoard, 284 U. S. 594. The findings
of fact of the deputy comnissioner, the Court now decides, are conclusive as to most issues, if supported by
evidence. Yet as to the issue of employment the Court
holds not only that such findings may not be declared
final, but that it would create a serious constitutional
doubt to construe the Act as committing to the deputy
commissioner the simple- function of collecting the evidence upon which the court will ultimately decide the
issue.
It is suggested that this exception is required as to
issues of fact involving claims of constitutional right.
For reasons which I shall later discuss, I cannot believe
that the issue of employment is one of constitutional
right. But even assuming it to be so, the conclusion does
not follow that the trial of the issue must therefore be
upon a record made in the district court. That the function of collecting evidence may be committed to an administrative tribunal is settled by a host of cases,"t and
"See the statutes and cases cited in note 5, supra. Similar decisions have been repeatedly made, under the Fourteenth Amendment,
in eases coming from the state courts. This Court has recently
decided that a state workmen's compensation act may validly provide

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

supported by persuasive analogies, none of which justify
a distinction between issues of constitutional right and
any others. Resort to administrative remedies may be
made a condition precedent to a judicial hearing. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477, 483, 484; First
National Bank v. County .oVinmissioners, 264 U. S. 450,
454, 455; United States Navigation Co. v. Cunard S. S.
Co., 284 U. S. 474. This is so even though a party. is
asserting deprivation of rights secured by the Federal
Constitution. First National Bank v. County Commissioners, supra. In federal equity suits, the taking
of evidence on any issue in open court did not become
common. until 1913,1" compare Los Angeles Brush Mfg.
for judicial review upon matters of law only. Dahlstromn Metallic
Door Co. v. IndustrialBoard, 284 U. S.594. See also New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 207, 208. In Missouri ex rel.
Ilurwitz v. North, 271 U. S.40, 42, it was held that a state board of
health might be empowered, upon reasonable notice, specification of
charges and opportunity to be heard, to revoke a physician's license,
Eubject only to review in the courts upon certiorari. In Washington
ex rel. Oregon Railroad & Navigation Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S.510,
527, a statute was upheld which confined the court upon review of a
public service commission's order to the evidence introduced before
the commission. See also Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235
U. S.651, 661; New York ex rel. New York & Queens Gas Co. v.
McCall, 245 U. S. 345, 348, 349; Napa Valley Electric Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 251 U. S.366, 370; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Department of Public Works, 268 U. S.39, 42. In Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S.685, 695, it was held that the findings of
fact by commissioners in assessing damages incondemnation proceedings might be made final, leaving open to the court only the question
whether there was any error in the basis of appraisal, or otherwise.
See also Crane v. Hahlo, 258 U. S.142, 147; Hardware Dealers Mutual' Fire Insurance Co. v. Glidden Co., 284 U. S. 151. Compare
Pacific Live Stock Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S.440, 451, 452.
12 See Griswold and Mitchell, "The Narrative Record in Federal
Equity Appeals," 42 Harv. L. Rev. 483, 488, 491; Lane, " One Year
Under the New Federal Equity Rules," 27 Harv. L. Rev. 629, 639.
Compare 2 Daniell, " Chancery Practice," 2d ed., 1045-46, 1053-54,
1069 et seq.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

Corp. v. James, 272 U. S. 701; and in admiralty it was
not required' by the Rules of this Court until 1921.'
Compare The P. R. R. No. 35, 48 F. (2d) 122. On appeals in admiralty, further proof is now taken by a coinmission." As was said concerning a similar tribunal in
Washington ex rel. Oregon Railroad & Navigation Co. v.
Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 527, the function of the deputy
commissioner is like that of a master in chancery who has
been required to take testimony and report his findings
of fact and conclusions of law. Compare Los Angeles
Brush Corp. v. James, supra; Kimberly v. Arms, 129 U. S.
512, 524, 525; Armstrong v. Belding Bros. & Co., 297 Fed.
728, 729. The holding that the difference between the

procedure prescribed by the Longshoremen's Act and
these historic methods of hearing evidence transcends the

limits of congressional power when applied to the issue
of the existence of a relation of employment, as distinguished from that of the circumstances of an injury
or the existence of a relation of dependency, seems to me
without foundation in reality. Certainly, there- is no

difference to the litigant.
"3Admiralty Rule 46, 254 U. S. 698. Subsequent to 1842, when the
procedure in admiralty became subject to rules promulgated by this
Court, and prior to 1921, no nile specifically required that evidence
be taken orally in open court, and the practice in some districts
appears to have been to take proof by a commission. Compare
Admiralty Rules 44, 46, 210 U. S. 558; The Guy C. Goss, 53 Fed. 826,
827; The Wavelet, 25 Fed. 733, 734. See also The Stm, 271 Fed.
953, 954. Under the present rules the district court may still, upon
proper circumstances, refer causes in admiralty to a commissioner,
without the consent of the parties, to hear the testimony and report
conclusions on issues of fact and law. The P. R. R. No. 35, 48 F.
(2d) 122; Sorenson & Co. v. Liverpool, Brazil & River Plate Steam
Nay. Co., 47 F. (2d) 332. Compare The City of Washington, 92
U. S. 31, 39; Los Angeles Brush Mfg. Corp, v. James, 272 U. S. 701.
The commissioner's findings of fact are not disturbed unless clearly
erroneous. La Bourgogne, 144 Fed. 781, 783, aff'd, 210. U. S. 95;
Anderson v. Alaska S. S. Co., 22 F. (2d) 532, 535.
.4 See Admiralty Rule 45, 254 U. S. 698; Rule 15, 275 U. S. 607.

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS, J., dis'iwing.

285 U.S.

Even in respect to the question, discussed by the Court,
of the finality to be accorded administrative findings of
fact in a civil case involving pecuniary liability, I see no
reason for making special exception as to issues of constitutional right, unless it be that under certain circumstances, there may arise difficulty in reaching conclusions
of law without consideration of the evidence as well as the
findings of fact. See Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420, 443. Compare Ohio Valley Water
Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287. The adequacy
of that reason need not be discussed. For as to the issue
of employment no such difficulty can be urged. Two
decades of experience in the States testify to the appropriateness of the administrative process as applied to this
issue, as well as all others, in workmen's compensation
controversies.
Fifth. Trial de novo of the existence of the employeremployee relation is not required by the Judiciary Article
of the Constitution. The mere fact that the Act deals
only with injuries arising on navigable waters, and that
independently of legislation such injuries can be redressed
only in courts of admiralty," obviously does not preclude
Congress from denying a trial de novo. For the Court
holds that it is compatible with the grant of power under
Article III to deny a trial de novo as to most of the facts
"The decision of the District Court, acquiesced in by the Circuit
Court of Appeals and this Court, that the remedy under § 21 (b) of
the Longshoremen's Act is in admiralty seems to me unfounded. The
provision in that section for suspending or setting aside a compensation order by injunction clearly implies a proceeding upon bill in
equity. Congress may authorize actions for maritime torts to be
brought on the law side of the federal district courts, Panama R. Co.
v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 385; or in the state courts, Engel v. Daven-

port, 271 U. S. 33, 37.
247 U. S. 372, 384.

See also Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co.,

No constitutional objection can exist, therefore,

to giving effect to the remedy in equity provided in this Act.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

upon which rest the allowance of a claim and the amount
of compensation. Its holding that the Constitution requires a trial de novo of the issue of the employeremployee relation is based on the relation which that
fact bears to the statutory scheme propounded by Congress, and to the constitutional authority under which
the Act was passed. The argument is that existence of
the relation of employer and employee is, as a matter of
substantive law, 'indispensable to the application of the
statute, because the power of Congress to enact the legislation turns upon its existence; and that whenever the
question of constitutional power depends upon an issue
of fact that issue must, as a matter of procedure, be determinable independently upon evidence freshly introduced in a court.1" Neither proposition seems to me well
founded.
Whether the power of Congress to provide compensation for injuries occurring on navigable waters is limited
to cases in which the employer-employee relation exists
has not heretofore been passed upon by this Court and
was not argued in this case. I see no justification for assuming, under those circumstances, that it is so limited.
"8
The opinion' of the Court suggests that, upon similar reasoning,
the issue whether the injury occurred on navigable waters must likewise be open to independent redetermination, upon the facts as well
as the law, in the district court. The question whether any peculiar
significance attaches to such a -controversy, entitling it to be twice
tried, is not before us. It has never been decided that the power of
Congress to provide compensation for injuries to workmen received in
the course of maritime employment depends upon the injury having
occurred upon navigable waters. See Benedict, "The American Admiralty," 5th ed., § 25. Compare Soper v. Hammond Lumber Co.,
4 F. (2d) 872; State Industrial Commission v. Nordenholt Corp., 259
U. S. 263. The Longshoremen's Act undertakes to cover only the
field of admiralty jurisdiction within which the decisions of this Court
have held uniformity to be required. See Stanley Morrison, "Workmen's Compensation and the Maritime Law," 38 Yale L. J. 472, 500.
137818'-32-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

Without doubt the word "employee" was used in the Longshoremen's Act in the sense in which the common law defines it. But that definition is not immutable; and no
provision of the Constitution confines the application of
liability without fault to instances where the relation of
employment, as so defined, exists." Compare Louis Pisitz
Dry Goods Co. v. Yeldell, 274 U. S. 112, 116. Whether
an individual is an employee or an independent contractor,
depends upon criteria often subtle and uncertain of application,'" criteria which have been developed by proc"That legislatures may abolish defenses recognized at common law
and create new causes of action not so recognized is beyond question.
So also is the power, under proper circumstances, to provide for liability without fault. Compare St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v.
Mathews, 165 U. S. 1; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Zernecke, 183 U. S.582; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry.
Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.281; New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243
U. S. 188. Congress may provide that a carrier shall be liable for
loss or damage to goods occurring beyond its own lines. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 203. See also
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Glenn, 239 U. S. 388, 393. "The rule,"
said the Court, "is adapted to secure the rights of the shipper by
securing unity of transportation with unity of responsibility." That
Congress might not similarly secure unity of responsibility for injuries to all persons working upon the same enterprise, irrespective
of. the particular relation existing of contract or employment, is not
to be assumed without argument and in the absence of circumstances
presenting the question. The logic upon which workmen's compensation acts have been sustained does not require insistence upon a
technical master and servant relation. Compare Ward & Cow v.
Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503. See also Jeremiah Smith, ' Sequel to Workmen's Compensation Acts," 27 Harv. L. Rev. 235, 344.
The common law, of course, holds many examples of liability to
third persons for injury sustained at the hands of an independent contractor or his servant. e. g., Ellis v. Sheffield Co., 2 E. & B. 767;
Pickard v. Smith, 10 C. B. (n. s.) 470; Doll v. Ribetti, 203 Fed! 593.
"See the analysis and criticism in William 0. Douglas. "Vicarious
Liability and Administration of Risk," 38 Yal&. L. J. 584, 594-604.
Compare 0. W. Holmes, "Agency," 5 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 14-16,

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

esses of judicial exclusion and inclusion, largely since the
adoption of' the Constitution iD and with reference, for
the most part, to considerations foreign to industrial accident litigation. It is not to be assumed that Congress, having power to amend and revise the maritimo law,
is prevented from inodifying those criteria and enlarging
the liability imposed by this Act so as to embrace all persons who arie engaged or engage themselves in the work
of another, including those now designated as independent
contractors. In the Longshoremen's Act itself, Congress,
far from declaring the relation of master and servant indispensable in all cases to the application of the statute,
provided expressly that a contractor shall be liable to employees of a subcontractor who has failed to secure payment of compensation. § 4 (a). State worknen's compensation laws almost invariably contain provisions for
liability either to independent contractors or to their employees, sometimes absolute and sometimes conditioned
upon default by the immediate employer ;.2o and these pro"See Baty, " Vicarious Liability," passim; Francis Bowes Sayre,
Criminal Responsibility for Acts of Another," 43 Harv. L. Rev. 689,
691-694; 0. W. Holmes, "Agency," 4 Harv. L. Rev. 345, 5 id. 1. The
first text-book on Agency did not appear until 1812. Paley, " The
Law. of Principal and Agent."
" See the digests of the statutes in L. V. Hill and Ralph H. Wilkin,
"Workmen's Compensation Statute Law "; and F. Robertson Jones,
" Digest of Workmen's Compensation Laws" (10th ed.). The provision in. the New York Workmen's Compensation Act, § 5Q, is illustrative: "A contractor, the subject of whose contract is, involves or includes a hazardous employment, who subcontracts all or any part of
such contract shall be liable for and shall pay compensation to any
employee injured. . . ." In 1927, in recommending the extension of this provision to include owners or lessees as well as general
contractors, the State Industrial Commissioner said: " From the
point of view of making sure of compensation to injured workers, all
the reasons for the existing obligations put upon a general contractor
for a piece of building work who sublets part of the work, are equally
cogent for doing the same in case of an owner or lessee of premises

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

visions appear to have been uniformly upheld.2 I cannot doubt that, even upon the view of the evidence taken
by the District Court, Congress might have made Benson
liable to Knudsen for the injury which he sustained.
Sixth. Even if the constitutional power of Congress to
provide compensation is limited to cases in which the
who lets part of building work in precisely the same way. The practical need for doing it has been shown by experience to be extensive
owing to the large amount of building work now being done under the
method above noted and which this amendment is designed to cover.
"The existing provision has proven very beneficial in the case of
contractors, and it will be equally useful in the case of the type of
owner-contractor, so to speak, who must now be dealt with for solution of the same problem." Annual Report of the Industrial Commissioner (1927), pp. 4, 5.
"1See, e. g., Industrial Commission v. Continental Investment Co.,
78 Colo. 398, 401, 402; 242 Pac. 49; Palumbo v. George A. Fuller
Co., 99 Conn. 355, 358; 122 Atl. 63; Fisk v. Bonner Tie Co., 40
Idaho 304, 308; 232 Pac. 569; Parker-Washington Co. v. Industrial
Board, 274 Ill. 498, 504; 113 N. E. 976; American Steel Foundries v.
Industrial Board, 284 Ill. 99, 103; 119 N. E. 902; McDowell v. Duer,
78 Ind. App. 440, 444, 445; 133 N. E. 839; Burt v. Clay, 207 Ky.
278, 281; 269 S. W. 322; Seabury v. Arkansas Natural Gas
Corp., 171 La. 199, 204, 205; 130 So. 1; White v. George B. H.
Macomber Co., 244 Mass. 195, 198; 138 N. E. 239; Burt v. Munising
Woodenware Co., 222 Mich. 699, 702, 703; 193 N. W. 895; De Lonjay
v. Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co., 35 S. W. (2d) 911, 912
(Mo.); Sherlock v. Sherlock, 112 Neb. 797, 799; 201 N. W. 645;
O'Bannerv. Pendlebury, 107 N. J. L. 245, 247; 153 Atl. 494; Clark v.
Monarch Engineering Co., 248 N. Y. 107, 110; 161 N. E. 436;
De Witt v. State, 108 Ohio St. 513, 522-525; 141 N. E. 551; Green v.
Industrial Commission, 121 Okla. 211, 212; 249 Pac. 933; Qualp v.
James Stewart Co., 266 Pa. 502; 109 At. 780; Murray v. Wasatch
Grading Co., 73 Utah 430, 436, 439; 274 Pac. 940; Threshermen's
Nat. Ins. Co. v. Industrial Commission, 201 Wis. 303, 306; 230 N. W.
67; Wisinger v. White Oil Corp., 24 F. (2d) 101, 102. But compare
Flickenger v. Accident Comm ission, 181 Cal. 425, 432, 433; 184 Pac.
851. Liability to pay compensation obtains in England under circumstances in which no relation of employment exists. See Mulrooney v.
Todd (1909), 1 K. B. 165; Marks v. Came (1909), 2 K. B. 516.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

employer-employee relation exists, I see no basis for a
contention that the denial of the right to a trial de novo
upon the issue of employment is in any manner subversive of the independence of the federal judicial power.
Nothing in the Constitution, or in any prior decision of
this Court to which attention has been called, lends support to the doctrine that a judicial finding of any fact
involved in any civil proceeding to enforce a pecuniary
liability may not be made upon evidence introduced before a properly constituted administrative tribunal, or
that a determination so made may not be deemed an
independent judicial determination. Congress has repeatedly exercised authority to confer upon the tribunals
which it creates, be they administrative bodies or courts
of limited jurisdiction, the power to receive evidence
concerning the facts upon Which the exercise of federal
power must be predicated, and to determine whether
those facts exist. The power of Congress to provide by
legislation for liability under certain circumstances subsumes the power to provide for the determination of the
existence of those circumstances. It does not depend
upon the absolute existence in reality of any fact.
It is true that, so far as Knudsen is concerned, proof
of the existence of the employer-employee relation is
essential to recovery under the Act. But under the definition laid down in Noble v. Union River Logging Co., 147
U. S. 165, 173, 174, that fact is not jurisdictional. It is
quasi-jurisdictional. The existence of a relation of employment is a question going to the applicability of the
substantive law, not to the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
Jurisdic'ion is the power to adjudicate between the
parties concerning the subject-matter. Compare Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254, 268. Obviously, the
deputy commissioner had not only the power but the
duty to determine whether the employer-employee relation existed. When a duly constituted tribunal has juris-

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BI(ANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

diction of the parties and of the subject-matter, that
jurisdiction is not impaired by errors, however grave, in
applying the substantive law. Dennison v. Payne, 293
Fed. 333, 341. Compare Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Schendel, 270 U. S. 611, 617; Matin v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142, 149; Binderup v. Path Exchange,
263 U. S. 291, 305-307. This is true of tribunals of special as well as of those of general jurisdiction. It is true

of administrative, as well as of judicial tribunals. If
errors in the application of law may not be made the
basis of collateral attack upon the decision of an administrative tribunal, once that decision has become final, no
"jurisdictional" defect can compel the independent reexamination in court, upon direct review, of the facts
affecting such applicability.

The "judicial power" of Article III of the Constitution
is the power of the federal government, and not of any
inferior tribunal. There is in that Article nothing which
requires any controversy to be determined as of first instance in the federal district courts. The jurisdiction of
those courts is subject to the control of Congress.12 MatTinner v. Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 8, 10; United States v.
Hudson & Goodwin, 7 Cranch 32, 33; Shelden v. Sill, 8 How. 441,
449; Justices v. Murray, 9 Wall. 274, 280; Insurance Co. v. Dunn, 19
Wall. 214, 226; Stevenson v. Fain, 195 U. S. 165, 167; Kline v. Burke
(7onstruction Co., 260 U. S. 226, 234. It was not until the Act of
MNarch 3, 1875, c. 137, IS Stat. 470, that Congress extended the jurisdiction of the crcuit courts to " cases arising under the laws of the
United States," thus permitting to be exercised "the vast range of
power which had lain dormant in the Constitution since 1789."
See Felix Frankfurter and James M. Landis, "The Business of
the Supreme Court," pp. 65-68; Charles Warren, "Federal Criminal
Laws and the State Courts," 38 Harv. L. Rev. 545. Large areas of
the potential jurisdiction of the lower federal courts are now occupied by other tribunals. As to legislative courts, see Wilber Griffith
Katz, "Federal Legislative Courts," 43 Harv. L. Rev. 894. Congress
has repeatedly exercised power to exclude from the federal courts
cases not involving the requisite jurisdictional amount. Cases aris-

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

ters which may be placed within their jurisdiction may
instead be committed to the state courts. If there be
any controversy to which the judicial power, extends that
may not be subjected to the conclusive determination
of administrative bodies or federal legislative courts, it
is not because of any prohibition against the diminution
of the jurisdiction of the federal district courts as such,
but because, under certain circumstances, the constitutional requirement of due process is a requirement of judicial process. An accumulation of precedents, already referred to,2" has established that in civil proceedings ining under the Federal Employers'. Liability Act are triable in either
the state courts or the federal district courts. See Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 56, 57-59; Douglass v. New York, New
Haven & Hartford R. Co., 279 U. S. 377. So also cases under § 20
of the Seamen's Act, as amended by the Merchant Marine Act of
1920, § 33. Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S.33, 37; Panama R. Co. v.
Vasquez, 271 U. S.557, 562.
"3See decisions and statutes collected in note 5, supra. So far as
concerns the question here presented, it is immaterial whether the
controversy is wholly between private parties or is between the Government and a citizen. The fact that litigation under the Longshoremen's Act is, in- substance, betveen private parties (even though
under § 21 (b) the deputy commissioner is the only necessary party
respondent) does not warrant the inference that the administrative
features of the Act present a question not heretofore deciled. The
tribunals listed in note 5, supra, deal with matters outside the scope of
the doctrine recently examined in Ex parte Bakelite Corporation,
279 U. S.438. While the opinion in that case referred to "various
matters arising between the government and others" as appropriate
for the cognizance of legislative courts, the reference was restricted to
matters "which from their nature do not require judicial determination and yet are susceptible to it," the mode of determining which
"is completely within congressional control."

Ibid. at 451.

The sug-

gestion that due process does not require judicial process in any controversy to which the government is a party would involve a revision of historic conceptions of the nature of the federal judicial system. That all questions arising in the administration of the Interstate Commerce Act, for example, or between a taxpayer and the
covernment under the tax laws, could be committed by Congress

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
3RANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

volving property rights determination of facts may constitutionally be made otherwise than judicially; and necessarily that evidence as to such facts may be taken outside
of a court. I do not conceive that Article III has properly
any bearing upon the question presented in this case.
Seventh. The cases cited by -the Court in support of
its conclusion that the statute would be invalid if construed to deny a trial de novo of issues of fact affecting
the existence of the employer-employee relation seem to
me irrelevant. Most of those decisions dealt with tribunals exercising functions generically different from the
function which Congress has assigned to the deputy
commissioners under the Longshoremen's Act, and no
question arose analogous to that now presented.
By the Longshoremen's Act, Congress created factfinding and fact-gathering tribunals, supplementing the
courts and entrusted with power to make initial determinations in matters within, and not outside, ordinary judicial purview. The purpose of these administrative bodies
is to withdraw from the courts, subject to the power of
judicial review, a class of controversies which experience
has shown can be more effectively and expeditiously
handled in the first instance by a special and expert tribunal. The proceedings of the deputy commissioners are
endowed with every substantial safeguard of a judicial
hearing. Their conclusions are, as a matter of right, open
to reexamination in the courts on all questions of law;
and, we assume for the purposes of this discussion, may be
open even on all questions of the weight of the evidence.
The administrative bodies in the cases referred to by
the Court, on the contrary, are in no sense fact-gathering
exclusively to executive officers, in respect to issues of law as well as

of fact, has never been supposed. Thus there is no indication in the
opinion in Ex parte Bakelite Corporation that the Commerce Court
was a legislative court, although instances of the creation of such
courts were considered in detail. See Wilber Griffith Katz, "Fed.ral Legislative Courts," 43 Harv. L. Rev. 894, 914, 915.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

or fact-finding tribunals of first instance. They are tribunals of final resort within the scope of their authority.
Their concern is with matters ordinarily outside of judicial competence,-the deportation of aliens, the enforcement of military discipline, the granting of land patents,
and the use of the mails,-matters which are within the
power of Congress to commit to conclusive executive determination. Compare Ex parte Bakelite Corp, 279 U. S.
438,451. Their procedure may be summary and frequently
is.24 With respect to them, the function of the courts
is not one of review but essentially of control-the function of keeping them within their statutory authority.5
4Compare

Miller v. Horton, 152,Mass. 540; 26 N. E. 100, and

Pearson v. Zehr, 138 I1. 48; 29 N. E. 854, cited by the Court. These
cases involved summary administrative action, and the complaining
individuals had been given no opportunity to be heard on the question whether their property was in fact subject to the destruction
ordered. The degree of finality appropriate in administrative action
must always depend upon the character of the administrative hearing
provided. Compare Dickinson, "Administrative Justice and the Supremacy of Law," pp. 260-261; E. F. Albertsworth, "Judicial Review of Administrative Action by the Federal Supreme Court," 35
Harv. L. Rev. 127, 152, 153. In most States, the tendency appears
to be to deny the right, in a tort action against an administrative
officer, to question the existence of the fact justifying his act, if a
hearing was provided or if a suit for injunction could have been
brought. See Freund, "Administrative Powers Over Persons and
Property," pp. 248-252; Kirk v. Board of Health, 83 S. C. 372 383,
65 S. E. 387. Compare North American Cold Storage Co. v. Chicago,
'211 U. S. 306, 316, 317. In cases arising under the Workmen's Compensation Laws, where formal hearing is available, the Massachusetts
and Illinois courts, in common with many others, have held the administrative finding of the fact of employment conclusive. Churchill's
Case, 265 Mass. 117; 164 N. E. 68; Hill's Case, 268 Mass. 491; 167
N. E. 914; Cinofsky v. Industrial Commission, 290 Ill. 521; 125 N. E.
286; Franklin Coal Co. v. Industrial Commission, 296 Ill. 329; 129
N. E. 811.
'Compare Frankfurter and Davison, "Cases on Administrative
Law," Preface, p. viii. See Albert Levitt, "The Judicial Review of
Executive Acts," 23 Mich. L. Rev. 588, 595 et seq. This authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

No method of judicial review of the administrative action
had been provided by Congress in any of the cases cited;
and the question of the power to confine review to the
administrative record accordingly did not arise. In each
case, the Court held that if the administrative officer had
acted outside his authority, the unwritten law supplied a

remedy, and that relief could be had, according to the2
nature of the case, on bill in equity or habeas corpus. 1
may embrace as well the determination of questions of law as of fact,
depending upon the judicial construction given to the authority of the
tribunal. Thus in In re Grimley, In re Morrissey, Noble v. Union
River Logging Co., Smith v. Hitchcock, and Bates & Guild Co. v.
Payne, all cited in note 26, infra, the Court recognized the conclusiveness of many decisions of law by the tribunals in question. Tribunals
of this character are of course empowered, under ordinary circumstances, to make conclusive determinations of fact. See e. g., Passavant v. United States, 148. U. S. 214, 219; Medbury v. United States,
173 U. S. 492, 497, 498; Silberschein v. United States, 266 U. S. 221,
225; Quon Quon Poy v. Johnson, 273 U. S. 352, 358.
"°(a) In Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, the statute authorized the deportation only of aliens, without provision for judicial review of the executive order. Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, § 19, 39
Stat. 874, 889. Upon application for a writ of habeas corpus, by a
person arrested who claimed to be a citizen, it was held that he was
entitled to a judicial determination of that claim. No question arose
as to 'whether Congress might validly have provided for review exclusively upon the record made in the executive department; nor as
to the scope of review which might hav been permissible upon such
record.
(b) In re Grimley, 137 U. S. 147, and In re Morrissey, 137 U. S.
157, deal with the action of military tribunals. Military tribunals
form a system of courts separate from the civil courts and created by
virtue of an independent grant of power in the Constitution. Art. I,
§ 8, el. 14, 16. They have authority to determine finally any case
over which they have jurisdiction; "and their proceedings . . . are
not open to review by the civil tribunals, except for the purpose
of ascertaining Whetler the military court had jurisdiction of the person and subject-mattef, and whether, though having such jurisdiction, it had exceeded its powers in the sentence pronounced." Carter
v. Roberts, 177 U. S. 496, 498; Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S. 33,

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

The question decided in each case was that Congress
should not be taken, in the absence of specific provision,
to have intended to subject the individual to the uncontrolled action of a public administrative officer. See
American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty,
187 U. S. 94, 110. No comparable issue is presented
here.
Reliance is also placed, as illustrative of the necessary
independence of the federal judicial power, upon the. decision in Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253
U. S. 287.27 That case, however, involved only the ques347. As Congress did not provide any method for review by the
courts of the decision of military tribunals, all questions of law concerning military jurisdiction are open to independent determinaton in the
civil courts; and the cases of In re Grimley and In re Morrissey,
decide nothing more. Whether Congress could make the findings of
"jurisdictional facts" of military tribunals conclusive upon civil
courts is a question which appears never to have been raised.
(c) In Noble v. Union River Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165, 174, relief
was granted by bill in equity to stay illegal and unauthorized action
of the Secretary of the Interior in respect to the public lands, there
bring no method of judicial review prescribed by statute. Compare
Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 641.
(d) In Smith v. Hitchcock, 226 U. S. 53, 58, as in Bates & Guild
Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 109, 110, and American School of Magnetic Healing Co. v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94, 109, bills in equity
were entertained to review acts of the Postmaster General alleged
to be unauthorized, Congress not having provided any method of
judicial review. In each case the question involved was stated to be
one of law.
" The decision in the Ohio Valley Water Company Case has evoked
extensive and varied comment. See, e. g., Curtis, "Judicial Review
of Commission Rate Regulation-The Ohio Valley Case," 34 Harv. L.
Rev. 862; Albertsworth, "Judicial Review of Administrative Action
by the Federal Supreme Court," 35 Harv. L. Rev. 127; C. W. Pound,
"The Judicial Power," 35 Harv. L. 787; Brown, "The Functions of
Courts and Commissions in Public Utility Rate Regulations," 38
Harv. L. Rev. 141; Wiel, "Administrative Finality," 38 Harv. L. Rev.
447; Buchanan, "The Ohio 7alley Water Company Case and the Valuation of Railroads," 40 Harv. L. Rev. 1033; Beutel, "Valuation as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

tion of the scope of review, upon the administrative
record, in confiscation cases. It held that the reviewing
court must have power to weigh the evidence upon which
the administrative tribunal entered the order. It decided
nothing concerning the right to a trial de novo in court;
and the opinion made no reference to such a trial. It
could not have decided anything as to the effect of Article
III of the Constitution. For the case came here from the
highest court of the State, arose under the Fourteenth
Amendment, and did not relate to the jurisdiction of the
lower federal courts. Moreover, in -no event can the
issues presented in the review of rate orders alleged to,
be confiscatory, which involve difficult questions of mixed
law and fact, be deemed parallel to those presented in
the review of workmen's compensation awards.28 Compare the issues in Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon
Borough, supra, with that in Dahlstrom Metallic Door
Co. v. IndustrialBoard, 284 U. S. 594.
Whatever may be the propriety of a rule permitting
special re~xamination i -at trial court of so-called "jurisRequirement of Due Process of Law in Rate Cases," 43 Harv. L.
Rev. 1249; Green, The Ohio Valley Water Case, 4 Ill. L. Q. 55;
Freand, "The Right to a Judicial Review in Rate Controversies," 27
W. Va. L. Q. 207; Hardman, "Judicial Review as a Requirement of
Due Process in Rate Regulation," 30 Yale L. J. 681; Isaacs, "Judicial
Review of Administrative Findings," 30 Yale L. J. 781. No cQmroentator, however, appears to have understood the decision as recognizing in any manner a right to trial de novo in court upon confiscation issues.
"It is cause for regret that the Court in determining. this controveiy should have declared, obiter, that in matters of State public
utility regulation involving administrative action of a special Character, and raising questions under a different constitutional provision, a
m.ode of procedure is required contrary to that almost universally
established under State law (see David E. Lilienthal, "The Federal
Courts and State Regulation of Public Utilities," 43 Harv. L. Rev.
379, 412, 413), and calculated seriously to embarrass -the operation
of the administrative method in that field.

CROWELL v. BENSON.
22

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

dictional facts" passed upon by administrative bodies
having otherwise final jurisdiction over matters properly
committed to them, I find no warrant for extending the

doctrine to other and different administrative tribunals
whose very function is to hear evidence and make initial
determinations concerning those matters which it is sought

to reexamine. Such a doctrine has never been applied to
tribunals properly analogous to the deputy commissioners, such as the Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Secretary of Agriculture
acting under the Packers and Stockyards Act, and the
like.2" Logically applied it would seriously impair the
entire administrative process."
Eighth. No good reason is suggested why all the evidence which Benson presented to the district court in
this cause could not have been presented before the deputy
commissioner; nor why he should have been permitted
to try his case provisionally before the administrative
tribunal and then to retry it in the district court upon
additional evidence theretofore withheld. To permit him
to do so violates the salutary principle that administrative remedies must first be exhausted before resorting to
the court, imposes unnecessary and burdensome expense
upon the other party and cripples the effective administration of the Act. Under the prevailing practice, by
which the judicial review has been confined to questions
of law, the proceedings before the deputy commissioners
But see Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 92. The statement by Mr. Justice Lamar
there, however,-ivent no further than to indicate that in some circumstances the courts on review of orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission might pass an independent judgment upon the evidence
adduced before the Commission. See also Iterstate Commerce Conmission v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 216 U. S. 538, 544; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 488-490.
See Dickinson, "Administrative Justice and the Supremacy of
Law," p. 310.

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1931.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

285 U.S.

have proved for the most part non-controversial; 81 and
relatively few cases have reached the courts.8 2 To permit

a contest de novo in the district court of an issue tried,
or triable, before the deputy commissioner will, I fear,
gravely hamper the effective administration of the Act.
The prestige of the deputy commissioner will necessarily
be lessened by the opportunity of relitigating facts in
the courts. The number of controverted cases may be
largely increased. Persistence in controversy will be encouraged. And since the advantage of prolonged litigation lies with the party able to bear heavy expenses, the
.purpose of the Act will be in part defeated.8 3
81 Out of the 30,383 non-fatal cases disposed of during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1931, the deputy commissioners held hearings
in only 729, according to information furnished by the United States
Employees' Compensation Commission. Compensation payments
were completed in 11,776 cases, or 38.8 per cent. of the total. In
17,328 cases, or 57 per cent., the injured employee failed to receive
compensation because no time was lost, or less than seven days, on
account of the injury. The balance of 1,279 cases, amounting to 4.2
per cent. of the whole, were dismissed because they did not come
within the scope of the law. Among the 18,607 non-compensated
cases, formal claims were filed by the employee in only 1,025 instances.
See, also, Report of the Compensation Commission, 1930, pp. 68-70.
.82 For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1931, 101 new cases were filed
in the district 'courts, out Of a total of 30,489 cases disposed of.
Report of the United States Employee's Compensation Commission,
pp. 69, 71. For the three preceding years the number of cases filed
in the courts was, respectively, 61, 58, and 15. Report, 1930, p. 62;
id. 1929, p. 70; id. 1928, p. 34. The decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals in the case at bar declaring the right to a trial de novo
was rendered November 17, 1930, and the first opiniQn of the District
Court on May 27, 1929.
8 How serious these consequences will be is a question of speculation;- but it is plain that they will be aggravated by the inherent
uncertainty in the scope of the doctrine announced. The determination of what facts are "jurisdidtional" or " fundamental" is calculated to provoke a multitude of disputes. That there is a difference
in kind, for example, between the defense that the injured claimant
is not an employee, and that he was nat acting as an employee when

HURLEY v. KINCAID.
Syllabus.

22

in my opinion the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed and the case remanded to
the District Court, sitting as a court of equity, for consideration and decision upon the record made before the
deputy commissioner.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS

join in

this opinion.
HURLEY, SECRETARY OF WAR, v. KINCAID.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 457. Argued January 4, 6, 1932.-Decided February 23, 1932.
1. An owner of land lying within the proposed channel of the Bocuf
Floodway, part of the plan authorized by the Mississippi River
Flood Control Act, brought suit to enjoin the carrying out of the
work in the floodway and specifically to enjoin the receiving of bids
for the construction of the guide-levees therefor, claiming that if the
work should be commenced without proceedings first having been
instituted to condemn his land or the flowage rights thereon, the
United States would in effect be taking his property without due
process of law and without just compensation. Complainant conceded that the Act was valid and that it authorized those charged
with its execution to take his lands or an easement therein. Held,
that injunction was not the proper remedy, for if what was done, or
was contemplated, constituted a taking of the property, then under
the Tucker Act there was a plain, adequate and complete remedy at
law. P. 104.
2. The Fifth Amendment does not entitle the owner of lands taken for
public use to be paid in advance of the taking. Id.
he was injured, or that there is a difference between the latter defense
and the defense that the disability, if any, from which he suffers
resulted only in part, or not at all, from the employment in which he
claims to have suffered it, are propositions which employers will be
unlikely to accept until they have submitted them to the decision of
the courts. The effectiveness of this legislation will be lessened by
this opportunity for barren controversy over procedural rights and
by delayed or thwarted determination of substantive ones,

